THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1925

THE FLAT-IRON
A Tale of Romance and Intrigue Beneath Tropical Skies
BY KABLE

Dan Druff is aboard the Flat Iron, private yacht of old Gabriel Snubbers, seeking to get hold of secret plans for John Dough. He finds he has a secret enemy aboard, and also finds himself entranced by Weona Snubbers. The second night out Dan is conversing with Weona on the deck when the ship gives a lurch and begins to sink. With Weona in his arms, he jumps overboard and swims. His strength begins to fail and he feels himself sinking—sinking.

Installment Three

As Dan began to sink he thought, strangely, not of the precious bundle of unconscious woman in his arms, but of a two-dollar debt of his friend and brother in the Beta Upsilon Sheepa Lambda fraternity back in college. Thus he was troubled by his conscience. Suddenly there in the dark waters his foot struck something hard; he tried with his other foot—bottom!! Unbelievable though it was, he had come to land. He staggered on and fell face downward on the beach, unconscious.

He awakened by the bright sun in his eyes. Next, he looked around and saw a broad expanse of beach, and evidently an island; dense woods towards the center of the island. Weona was awakening. She showed signs of astonishment.

“Sweetheart,” she murmured, and opened her eyes. She was still pretty even though the natural wave in her hair had been eliminated by combat with the wave of the ocean. Dan explained to her briefly the situation that they were in.

“Ooh, a desert island; just like in the movies; I'm thrilled speechless——-." and she chattered on until Dan suggested that they take their bearings. They walked on down the beach and saw there, sitting on a log and calmly smoking a pipe, old Gabriel himself. He was the only one of the crew in evidence. From the ill-fated ship, only three had been saved, and even their safety might be just temporary. Dan saw the blueprints protruding from the end of Gabriel's suitcase and knew all was well.

Dan took his waffle-iron from his briefcase, and soon they had a nice hot breakfast of fried oysters, shrimp, and freshwater trout. After breakfast, they explored the island, keeping close together for protection against a probable unseen enemy. By noon they were well into the interior, so they lunched on fruit salad, dexterously hashed by Weona from pineapples, bananas, peanuts, oranges, and sugar-cane. They found no sign of human life in their travels but met many interesting animals and birds on the way in their native habitat—a reindeer dashed wildly across the pampas hotly pursued by a monkey with a coconut in one hand and a set of harness in the other. They also saw, in the course of the day, the wonderful ikmix discovered by Boon McNutt, the hefty halitosis, the antidote, the spirogyra, the camel, the chesterfield, and the two-humped whoofel-beast.

Near dark they returned to the beach and cooked their supper. The next thought was a safe place to spend the night; so Dan took a cross-cut saw from his briefcase, and soon had a fairly good log cabin built from barber-pole palms. Gabriel retired early, but Dan and Weona were sitting on the porch swing; the Victrola in the house was playing “I Love You.” It was a beautiful night; the full round moon made a silvery shimmering path across the waters to the shore. Far off in the distance could be heard the plaintive, crooning lullaby of the mother elephant singing her babe to rest. Weona leaned closer to Dan—her soft hair brushed his face, and she sighed. Dan thought it was time for him to say something, so he took his hands out of his pockets and began: “On such a night as this—,” he quoted.

“Yes, yes! go on!” she breathed excitedly.

“Aw, I forget the rest of it, but most anything could happen.”

The three unfortunates were forced to accompany the savages some twenty miles into the forest. The tribesmen were all powerful brutes, and Dan, even with his Liederman-built physique, found it futile to resist. Soon they arrived at the village of the natives. They all gathered in the public square and held a public ping-pong, or conference about the victims. Dan noticed meanwhile that they had a very poor traffic system; they parked their little ricochets with no regard to right or left, and several had left the motor running. Dan grew tired of the long discussion and spoke to the chief in all the languages that he knew. First, he tried English, and then United States, and Spanish, and Honolulu, and South Carolinian, and Utopian. The chief continued in ignorance; a happy thought struck Dan, he addressed him in Greek and got a response. This must be a remnant of the expedition that had come to corner the banana market, back in the dark ages. The chief told Dan that he was struck by the beauty of Weona and wanted her for his queen, and the two men could go. If they didn't agree to this, they would be electrocuted, the girl taken anyway. Dan and Gabriel conferred and asked for time to consider the situation.

“No matter what, Miss Weona becomes my queen tomorrow at high noon. What ho! the guard! Lock these persons up in the tower until morning.”

(To be continued next week)
Copyrighted by the Mobull Swiss, Syndicate.

Dartmouth Editor Praises Davidson

The Dartmouth College newspaper in the issue of Saturday, November 14th, devoted a large amount of space to the notable activities that have been going on at Davidson College. The editor of the Dartmouth paper, with the exception of an error in location, does Davidson a large amount of credit in his resume of recent happenings. All of the incidents quoted were taken from The Davidsonian, which the Dartmouth editor describes as a “most estimable journal.”

His first article was practically a duplication of an editorial appearing recently in The Davidsonian, which criticized certain freshmen who were attempting to lead organized cheering for their class basketball team. The Dartmouth editor pointed out that the upper-class-men were largely to blame for their lack of spirit shown by the freshmen. The upper-class-men depend largely on the freshmen for the organized cheering, and yet prevent them from cheering for their class team.

The next account in the Dartmouth paper was an article concerning the Norris Athletic Trophy. This commended the graduates of Davidson for continuing to show an active spirit in their alma mater and providing an impetus for more spirit among the underclassmen now at college.

The last two accounts were of football games. The first, a clipping from the account of the State game which told of the defeat of the heavier Wolfpack eleven by the much smaller Wildcats. The last article tells of the defeat handed the Duke freshmen by the Wildkittens. The editor gives as his reason for devoting this space in the Dartmouth paper to these articles, the fact that Dartmouth is always interested in undergraduate activities in other colleges and that Davidson College is a fair example of a school extremely interested in these affairs.

TURKEY TO EAT
(Continued from page 1)

Talk by Doctor Lingle Precedes Straw Ballot On World Court Issues
International Relations Club Sponsors Vote on Vital Issue
STUDENTS INTERESTEDLingle Traces History of Question in Highly Interesting Manner—Large Audience Present

On last Friday evening at 8 p.m., the International Relations Club held a meeting in Shearer Hall to which the student body was invited. The purpose of the meeting was to inform the students of the organization and functions of the World Court as it stands today, so that they may vote intelligently on the question as to whether America should enter the World Court when the straw vote on that question is held. The Club selected Dr. T. W. Lingle to discuss the situation before the students.

He opened his discussion by stating that the question as to whether the World Court is needed has been definitely decided. The only thing that remains for America to decide is, “What will be America’s relation to the World Court?” Proceeding further, the speaker developed his talk under three main heads.

The first, the circumstances that made the Court possible. He stated that such a court was not needed in ancient times. Universal dominion by one nation was the type of power preferred. However, after the disintegration of Europe, the modern state emerged. Then began a period of international anarchy, which still exists. Then, for the first time, international laws and relationships were needed. Nations have become neighbors and are closely related to one another.

Having shown how the way was paved for the founding of the World Court, he started on his second main point: the organization of the World Court. He pointed out how international organizations grew gradually. Nations were drawn closer and closer together by treaties, ambassadors, and finally international organizations. He cited the Red Cross as a powerful international organization. Then, in 1899, Russia called the first Peace Conference to be held in The Hague. At this meeting, the International Court of Arbitration was organized and is still functioning and giving good results. At that time, the United States’ delegates wanted to establish a Court. However, under President Wilson's leadership, the League of Nations was established only to be rejected by the United States. The League felt that a World Court was needed to render important decisions when the League could not be convened. So a permanent Court was established and the Judges chosen.

The lecturer began his third main point: “America’s relation to the Court?” Almost all the nations of the World belong to the court. America is considered an outsider by the powers of the earth. He stated that the expense of belonging to the Court was very little, being only a fraction of what the United States is spending on her armaments. Continuing, he said that the American leaders were willing for the nation to join, with certain amendments. Naming these, Dr. Lingle concluded his lecture with the statement, “That if the United States was not for the Court, it certainly must be against it, and as long as we are not a member of the Court and on the outside, it will be considered that we are against the Court.”

After the main speaker of the evening had finished his talk, which was enjoyed by a large crowd, a public discussion period was conducted by Professor Davis. Professor Davis, a former President of the International Relations Club, used the round table discussion method with great effect and by a strict comparative valuation of the arguments for and against the league, forcibly demonstrated the superiority of the affirmative position. The four proposals that were under discussion follow:

1. United States participating in the World Court under the Harding-Hughes plan. The United States is not to be bound to advisory opinions not voluntarily submitted by the United States.
2. United States participation under the “Harmony Plan” of thirty peace leaders. United States to join the Court under the Harding-Hughes plan but to withdraw after five years unless international law has been codified, outlawing war and giving the Court jurisdiction.
3. United States participation under the Borah plan. The United States not to join the Court until international law has been codified outlawing war, and the Court given jurisdiction; the United States not to be thereby connected with the League of Nations.
4. United States remaining out of the World Court altogether.

Have those old shoes rebuilt. Service is our watchword.

ELECTION OF HARRY VANCE

(Continued from page 1)

The point of his football career was probably in the Clemson game of last year, when he literally smeared the South Carolina Tigers all over Wearn Field. This fall he has played a consistently brilliant game at guard, having been mentioned as a star of practically every contest of the fall. When wrestling in the heavyweight class, Vance won a majority of his matches. In baseball, he seemed to come into his own again. Playing center field, he was one of the most feared batters in the college ranks. At the end of the season, his batting average was well over the 400 mark. He garnered among his many hits three home runs, one of them, in the Guilford game, coming when the bases were loaded.

While Vance has not been able to win a letter in track, he is one of the best broad jumpers in school. During the greater part of the track season, Harry could not enter many meets and did not have time to practice regularly, but he showed that he could jump when called upon to take part. As baseball interfered, he did not have time to practice regularly.

The Hotel Charlotte
A Good Hotel in a Good Town!

Also, fellows, you’ll find our Restaurant and Coffee Shop just right to serve you in every particular.

TUXEDOS $45.00
New Tuxedos of the famous Kincaid-Kimball make. Faultlessly tailored—absolutely correct.
WE RENT TUXEDOS

MEN’S SECTION STREET FLOOR