THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 8, 1925

ALUMNI Play-By-Play

Rev. F. E. Manning, ex-’21, graduated at Union Theological Seminary last May and was married on July 23rd at Newberry,
S. C., to Miss Josephine Boozer.

Rev. H. N. McDiarmid, ’11, for five years pastor of the Rocky Mount Presbyterian Church and for the same period
of time in a like charge at Kinston, has accepted the call to the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church at
Shelby.

Rev. J. E. Consar is now on his first furlough from Japan where he has been working in the mission
field.

Rev. J. I. Knight spent the summer touring Europe.

Mr. and Mrs. D. W. Lane, '23, of Nahunta, Ga., visited the college recently.

W. Gilbert Morrison, former Davidson student, graduated on the 5th of June from the University of Memphis Law School. He
is now residing in Memphis.

Dr. B. R. Lacy, Jr., dedicated the Frank Thompson Gymnasium on Alumni day at North Carolina State College. Both Dr.
Lacy and Dr. Thompson graduated from Davidson, Dr. Lacy going as a Rhodes scholar to Oxford and Dr. Thompson, “the
soldier, gentleman and athlete, glorious, brave and clean,” as spoken of by Dr. Lacy, was killed at Rigenville, France in
the World War.

Clarence Rothwell Wilcox is now president of the Darlington School for Boys at Rome, Ga.

Samuel Horton Askew, ’20, former editor of the Davidsonian and Valedictorian of his class, is head-master of Darlington.

Emory Flinn, ‘19, is now living in Tampa, Fla.

Paul Guthery is now engaged in the real estate business in Charlotte.

James G. Driver, director of student activities at Carolina, was the coach of the Camp Jackson team and he will
tell anyone that Black was the star of his backfield, although there were stars available from some of the greatest
teams in the country.

Charles Tuller is in the cotton business in Atlanta, Ga.

Johnnie Bachman, Georgia Tech. ex-'26, is now at The Columbia State.

The Columbia State has the following to say of Jack Black, ’19, who officiated in the game between the two
Carolinas at Columbia last Saturday:

When Black’s name comes into the picture, one cannot but recall his work on the famous Camp Jackson team of
the fall of 1917 and his brilliant play later in France as a member of the Eighty-first division eleven. At
Bar sur Aube, France, in the winter of 1919, Black was a back on the Wildcat team in the semi-finals
of the A. E. F. On the other team was the famous and brilliant Eddie Mahan, whose name still stands
at the top of the Harvard ladder of fame. On that particular day Eddie had nothing on Jack. After the
war, Black returned to Davidson and played his final year of collegiate ball.

Hillhouse Talks Before Ministerial Candidates; Ministerial Band Holds Inspiring Meeting on Sunday Afternoon

The principal point of interest at the meeting of the Ministerial Band held Sunday afternoon was a talk by Albert
Hillhouse, executive secretary of the Y. M. C. A. The meeting was opened with a song, followed by a prayer
led by J. H. Calligan, Hill, and McColgan. After this, Ernest Milton made a short, emphatic plea for Christian Endeavor,
calling attention to its several advantages and its pronounced success, and urging that it be taken up to a greater
extent by the Presbyterian Church. Scripture was read by the president, Bowie, and prayers were offered by Joe Garrison, Julian
Lake, and Moye. After a brief introduction by Bowie, Hillhouse spoke to the band. His talk was impressive and forceful,
and carried a strong message to his hearers. The subject “Influence” was his topic. He began his talk with quotations
from an editorial in “Personal Efficiency,” which stressed the fact that in any organized community the test of a man
is his influence with other men. Influence was then compared to our lives, the speaker stating that in reality we
live two lives—one that we actually go through and one of influence upon others. Influence in life was compared to
a by-product, and attention called to the fact that a by-product is often much more valuable than the principal product
itself. The poem “Pippa Passes,” by Browning was offered as a shining example of the work influence may perform. The
closing portion of the talk was concerning influence at Davidson, the speaker talking directly to what he termed the most
potent factor of Christianity—the men who are preparing for the ministry. They were reminded that it is not necessary to
go far afield to do good work, but that opportunities present themselves here on the campus, to use their influence
for the good of Christianity. In closing, Hillhouse read a paper, “A Worker’s Prayer,” and left with his hearers this
message: that they ask themselves, “What am I doing with my influence on the campus of Davidson?”

The coaches and the players were big factors in the contest. But we do not want to forget the student
body. Just how much that tremendous pep meeting on Friday night had to do with the spirit of that fight
can never be estimated, but it was a conquering spirit that was manifested, and seemed to pervade the fight on
the field that afternoon.

Three Meets Scheduled for Cross-Country Team

Seven Men Will Be Picked From Field of Twenty Runners

The prospects are bright this year for a good cross-country team at Davidson. Heretofore small interest has been shown in
this branch of track and consequently few meets have been entered and very little accomplished all around. This year, however,
the team...has a schedule of three meets to look forward to and work for: N. C. State, at Davidson, October
31. Duke, at Davidson, November 28, State Meet, at Durham, (Undecided). The team can only accommodate seven men and as
there are over 20 candidates out the competition will be strong. Four men from last year’s team are back again,
with a large number of Freshmen and upperclassmen to push them for places on the team. As an added incentive
to hard work, Coach Tilson announced that if enough points were annexed during the season merit the honor, letters in
cross-country might be given. The track squad turned out Monday for fall practice. They will be coached by Gracey, captain
of the track team last year. A large number of new men were out for the sprints and field events
in addition to quite a few of last year’s varsity men. This week will be spent in conditioning the men
for regular work next week.

Cheer-Leader Assistants Are Story and Williams

Two Junior Assistants Selected From Field of Seven Candidates

On Saturday morning, October 3rd, the election for Junior cheer-leaders was held. There were seven candidates for the two positions
to be filled. The two men elected to assist “Chick” Monk in leading the Wildcat yells were C. W. (Clancy)
Williams and W. R. (Bill) Story. The other candidates were McConnell, Bordeaux, Merchison, Caligan, and Kornegay. Williams is a native
of Alabama, hailing from Montgomery. Story is from Marion, N. C., and is a brother of Davidson’s famous cheer-leader in
’21 and ’22, “Henkie” Story. It is generally conceded that “Henkie” was the best cheer-leader Davidson ever had. “Bill” bids
fair to walk in his brother’s footsteps. Williams and Story made their first appearance as members of the regular cheer-leading
staff at the Wake Forest game Saturday. From their action in this game, under the able direction of Monk, it
looks like Davidson has three cheer-leaders of which she can duly be proud.

Wake Forest ran a couple of plays and kicked. Wells made a great run for two yards and first. Black
gained four, dittoed by Wells, which ended the half, the ball in Davidson's possession on Wake Forest's 30-yard line, third
down and two to go. Score: Wake Forest 7; Davidson 0.

Second Quarter

Wells made seven yards and first on the initial play. Black and Grey combined to make 9 1/2 yards, but
Black failed to gain on third down, his fumble on the fourth being recovered by Rackley, of Wake Forest, on
his own 18-yard line. Karleskint and Greason made 9 in three plays, eight of them Karleskint’s. Rackley kicked. After Wake
Forest had netted two yards, Oberance tore through and nabbed him for a five-yard loss. Rackley kicked, Grey making a
beautiful return. Failing to gain, Laird then kicked and followed by a no-gain of Greason’s, that same player made 25
yards over tackle, putting the ball on Davidson's 30-yard line. No gain by Karleskint. Rackley passes to Riley for five
yards. Ober gets four. Greason steps out of bounds for one-half yard, and the ball over to Davidson on the
fourth. Hendrix lost two. Black failed to gain, a pass was incomplete, and Laird kicked to Wake Forest’s 40-yard line.
Fair catch signaled. Wake Forest soon chose to kick, and Hendrix, of Davidson, decided he would try a few passes,
three straight ones being incomplete. Laird then kicked to Wake’s four-yard line, Rackley, evidently lost as to the location of
the ball, grabbing it as it was headed over the last line, failing to return. After Sykes gained seven yards
for Wake Forest in two plays, the half ended with the ball in Wake Forest's possession on her own 11-yard
line, third down and three yards to go. Score: Wake Forest 7; Davidson 0.

Third Quarter

Grey, Davidson, kicked to Rackley on the 10-yard line, the ball being returned 20 yards. Immediately followed three first downs
for Wake Forest. Greason slipping off 11 yards for the first. Karleskint and Ober made the second and third first
downs, both players being called upon twice in the four plays necessary. Two plays by Wake Forest netted zero yards,
and a pass, Rackley to Riley, was grounded. Attempting to drop kick, Davidson blocked the punt, the ball being here
in midfield. The tide turned here, and without losing the ball Davidson marched across for the touchdown. Grey gained five
in two plays. A pass, Grey to Hendrix, netted 15 yards and first. Black gained seven plays, which, aided by
one yard by Wells, counted for first down. Hendrix duplicated the performance of a few minutes before, snagging a pass
from Grey for 13 yards and first, putting the ball on Wake Forest’s one-half yard line. Black failed in two
attempts, as well as Hendrix, on a third. Wells then wriggled through for the touchdown. Laird kicked the extra point.
Rackley kicked off to Davidson’s three-yard line, but a return by Grey placed it on Davidson’s own 35-yard line. Gaining
nine yards in three plays, Hendrix called on Grey to kick. Wake Forest went out of bounds for no gain.
Ober got two yards in three plays, fourth down, and 11 to go. Failing to gain, Grey kicked. Wells gained,
but Laird threw Greason for a three-yard loss. Here the quarter ended, the ball being in Wake Forest’s possession on
her own 30-yard line. Score: Wake Forest 7; Davidson 7.

Fourth Quarter

Rackley kicked to the 20-yard line, Grey returning five. Black lost three and Grey kicked to Wake Forest's 42-yard line
for a fair catch. Rackley gained five, but Ober and Chalkles were stopped for no gain, Rackley then kicking. Black
gained two, and Grey kicked, Rackley receiving, and as he started down at a fast pace...

(Continued on page 8)

CASHION CAFE
Davidson, N. C.

WE SELL
Spalding, Wright & Ditson, Goldsmith, Reach, O’Shea Knit Goods.
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 East Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Young Men Can’t Afford to Wear Ordinary Clothes

Ordinary clothes cost the wearer respect, prestige, confidence — things that no young man can afford to sacrifice. If your
suit bears the Mellon label, it’s no ordinary suit. You may feel sure of the correct style, the expert tailoring
and the fine quality that is in it. And, after you have worn it, you will naturally feel that the
price was not excessive.

“Dress well and succeed”
MELLON’S

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS
RECORDS AND ROLLS
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC
OLDEST IN THE STATE
ANDREW MUSIC HOUSE,
213 N. Tryon St.

SEE
WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
