Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 8, 1925 No. 4

Omicron Delta Kappa to Include Eight New Men In Coveted Membership

Bids Extended to Eight Members of Senior Class

STUDENT BODY LEADING

These Men Have Distinguished Themselves in Every Phase of Campus Life

On last Monday night eight men, members of the Senior class, were extended bids to join the Omicron Delta Kappa
Fraternity, the highest honor conferred upon a student. The men thus honored were: J. W. Anderson, T. S. Baker, L.
L. Deck, R. W. Graves, G. F. Laird, C. F. Monk, E. K. Regen, D. G. Wilson. These men have
demonstrated their claim to leadership in various phases of college life.

L. L. Deck, who is from Atlanta, Ga., won his spurs as one of the best managers of school publications
who has ever been at Davidson. He is captain of Company “D” in the battalion, was editor of the “Y”
handbook, and in addition to these honors he is business manager of Quips and Cranks. He is also a member
of the “Y” Cabinet and the Court of Control.

R. W. Graves came to Davidson from Rome, Ga., and at once won fame as an exceptional scholar and continued
to prove it by making the highest average in his class. “Bob” is a member of Sigma Pi Sigma, Sigma
Upsilon, the Philosophy Club, and the (Continued on page 5)

Wildkittens Primed For Battle With High Point

High Point’s Victory Over Oak Ridge Indicates That Game Will Be Close

The Davidson Wildkittens have been sharpening their claws under the direction of Coach Monk Mattox for four long weeks and
are now putting on the finishing touches for their initial contest with High Point College, when they journey up to
High Point tomorrow. The Freshmen will have a stiff fight before them as they have an unusually light aggregation. High
Point has already shown their prowess by defeating the strong Oak Ridge team last Saturday by a 9-6 score.

The line of the yearling team is as yet uncertain and there have been frequent scrimmages to try men out.
Wenberg seems to be the best bet for quarter, and Kell, James, Myers and Flinn seem to be the best
halfs. Flinn is out, however, on account of a “charley horse” received two weeks ago. Sam Black will probably be
fullback. The team scrimmaged the scrubs Monday and are perfecting their offensive for the coming encounter. The probable line-up will
be:

High Point. Position. Davidson.
Manning LE McConnell
Billie LT Vance
Dimarco LG Gos Smith
Dallas C Kerr
Wratford RG LeFever
Method (C) RT Ritchie
Peterson RE Monk
HB James or Flinn
HB Myers or Kell
FB Black
Gleason QB Wenberg

Excited Students Ride to Big Game On Special Train

The Wake Forest “Special” was provided for the occasion by the Southern Railway Company, one of the transportation companies serving
the students of Davidson. It was scheduled to leave Davidson at 1:30, and it did! There was a wild scramble
for seats, and the students filled the three coaches like water fills a glass. The fourth coach, attached to the
engine, was the exclusive parking place for the janitors and their friends.

The train chugged laboriously out of the Davidson terminal station, and the boys waved a merry farewell to the depot
loafers and others. Then “Bo” McMillan decided the car needed some decoration, so he put a few Freshmen to work
on the artistic decorating of the coaches.

The first stop was at Cornelius, N.C. The exact reason for this stop is not known, but some said the
engineer stopped to let a certain faculty member in his automobile catch up so they might race into Charlotte. Anyway,
there was a wild race between the locomotive on the track and the car on the highway running practically parallel
with the tracks. First the train took the lead, and when it slowed down, out of breath, the Dodge whizzed
past.

Desiring a little more harmony in the racket, Peterson and Shorty Howell organized a singing class in one of the
smokers. The songs attempted were as varied as the neckties of the singers, and the results were (Continued on page
3)

Juniors Plan For Speaking Term

Tentative plans have been drawn up to make Junior Speaking this year the best ever. While as yet no definite
arrangements have been made about the program, there are ideas being originated that promise something entirely new and interesting this
year. Committees have been appointed by Harllee Branch, the chairman, and the whole Junior class is being urged to work
up interest and put out all they have for the one big Junior event that has become an annual event
on the hill.

At a meeting of the Junior class Monday morning the question for a new name for the magazine that is
published each year at this time, was brought up. It was suggested that the name be retained that was used
last year—“Sanity Rare.” However, no agreement could be reached and the matter was placed in the hands of the committee
to decide upon a suitable name.

The speaking this year will no doubt follow the same general lines that it did last year. Some new arrangements
have been made, however. Besides the speaking that features the event, there will be special music by the eleven-piece orchestra
that is to make the Glee Club tours. Plans are being made for an inter-class track meet to take place
besides the baseball game that is played each year at this time. Besides the special movies there will be a
series of dramatic plays given by the Dramatic club. With the co-operation of the whole Junior class the big Easter
event should go off exceptionally well this year. Although the class has diminished in numbers there is still an abundance
of good talent in the class, and a large part of it is expected to show up in work that
is needed to put such an entertainment through.

Five committees have been appointed to handle the various phases of the Junior Speaking program. These committees are as follows:
(Continued on page 3)

SCORES TOUCHDOWN LUCIAN WELLS

Guilford and Davidson Prepare for Game Here On Saturday Afternoon

Quakers Hope to Shake Jinx That Has Haunted Them This Season

The Wake Forest game being a thing of the past, all eyes are now turned to the Wildcat-Quaker fracas to
be staged on Richardson Field next Saturday. The Davidson team will enter the game with a record of two wins,
one draw and no defeat, having won over Elon in the opening game of the season, and over Wofford, playing
Wake Forest to a 7-7 tie. Guilford has been less fortunate in their opening games; losing to Duke and Elon,
but they showed more form in the game of last week. The Wildcats are slightly bruised up as a result
of the Wake Forest game, butConsidering the class of football they played, they came out with few injuries. The Quakers
are reported to be in first-class condition. Comparing scores, Davidson should win as they won over the Elon team in
the opener of the season by a 34-0 count, and the Christians downed Guilford last week by a 7-0 margin,
but little can be said of comparative scores. Guilford will come with the determination to fight hard and a scrappy
game can be expected. The probable line-up follows:

Guilford. Position. Davidson.
LE -------- Pinkney
IT -------- Laird
LG -------- Vance
(Continued on page 2)

WIT. Pictures Success In Business Line

Mr. Cameron Beck, personnel director of the New York Stock Exchange, gave a very interesting and inspiring lecture last Monday
evening to a large crowd of students, faculty members, and town people. Mr. Beck's address was the second of a
series of lectures arranged by the faculty committee of lectures. The main theme of Mr. Beck's lecture was the cost
of leadership. He stressed the fact that the position one wished to hold was dependent on the work that he
was willing to expend for it. “It is useless to strive for leadership unless you wish to pay the price.
I want to summon you not to any easy road but to a road of service, the benefit of mankind,”
the speaker said. “I come to you tonight,” he continued, “as a business man, not a lecturer, preacher, or teacher,
but merely to let you know of some of the positions and predicaments young men about to enter into manhood
find themselves. During the last year in my office many boys have come hunting for a position. Practically all of
them have an idea that there is a mystical tree in Wall Street under which one can go to sleep
and another kind person will come along, shake the tree, and gold dollars will shower upon you. In all my
years I have never seen this tree nor anything approaching it.” He continued along the theme of the necessity of
a real ambition in one before they (Continued on page 6)

Blue Pencil Club Honors Five Men

Five new members, R. W. Graves, W. H. Allison, W. E. Milton, T. C. Barr, and H. P. Shaw, were
initiated into the Blue Pencil chapter of Sigma Upsilon at a meeting held Monday evening of this week. Both new
men and the old members experienced an enjoyable time at this session which included both mental and physical refreshment. All
the new members were chosen with respect to their literary ability and their interest in literary affairs. They have shown
a marked interest in the publications here at Davidson, and their work on such has been of an excellent quality.
Their election to Sigma Upsilon comes as a reward for conscientious work and endeavor.

W. H. Allison won his spurs in an essay contest last fall which was conducted by the literary societies. In
addition to this, his work in the Reporters’ Club and along various other literary lines clearly entitles him to this
signal honor. He is one of the best students on the hill and is a member of a number of
the honorary fraternities.

W. E. Milton, as a member of The Davidsonian staff for three years and as head of the Davidson press
bureau, has won quite an enviable fame as a journalist and literary artist in general. T. C. Barr has been
the author of several brilliant essays in the magazine and is widely recognized as one of the original literary lights
of the school. H. P. Shaw, as editor-in-chief of Quips and Cranks, and as a former member of The Davidsonian
staff, holds a foremost place among the literary stars of the hill and unquestionably merits this reward. Sigma Upsilon is
a national fraternity including chapters in a number of our leading colleges and universities. Election to Sigma (Continued on page
6)

WAKE FOREST

Six Thousand Fans See Wildcats and Baptists In Spectacular Battle

Surprise Attack by Davidson in Third Quarter Overcomes Baptist Lead

GAME ENDS IN 7-7 TIE

Garrity’s Demon Deacons Unable to Check Onslaught of Inspired Wildcats Warriors

Just as the sun was sinking behind the grandstands on Wearn Field, Charlotte, last Saturday afternoon, the little Davidson Wildcats,
with a great pep meeting the night before ingrained upon their memory, slashed their way over far heavier opponents in
the third period of a great battle, for a touchdown, and a few minutes later, the seldom-failing toe of Red
Laird sent the oval through the posts that tied Wake Forest, 7 to 7, and sent a thrill down the
spine of thousands of spectators, whose sentiment that day was for the doughty Presbyterian lads.

Approximately six thousand spectators saw the eleven red jerseymen of Davidson, outweighed in the line 17 pounds to the man,
and in the backfield five pounds to the man, send the Demon Deacons back to Wake Forest, not with a
three-touchdown victory, as had been predicted, but with only seven points, which had been duplicated by the Wildcats. It was
one of the greatest upsets in North Carolina football. By virtue of their 6-0 win over Carolina the Saturday previous,
the Baptists had been prematurely declared state champions. But the Wildcats, their ire aroused by the odds being granted Wake
Forest, and by the prophetic declaration that Wake Forest was the best team in the state, fought like demons themselves
to alleviate (Continued on page 8)

Dr. Oren Moore Delivers Inspiring Address at ‘Y’

Noted Charlotte Physician Speaks to Davidson Students on Theme of Leadership

Dr. Oren Moore, a noted Charlotte physician, spoke at the Y. M. C. A. vespers Sunday evening on the subject,
“The Man Who Would Be King.” “That this is an interesting topic,” said the speaker, “is proven by the fact
that authors have often dealt with it. Writers have seen fit to appeal to the public through the sense of
feeling which a man has for one who is struggling for leadership.

“The joy with which we follow the success of men, the marriage of men to princesses, and other such subjects
shows what an appeal it makes. There is a desire in the heart of every man to acquire leadership. And
every man who ever was a leader has spent a long time in preparation for it, or he would not
know the front from the rear of the crown; he would not know how to act.”

Dr. Moore then said that it was understood that he was dealing with those who aspired to be leaders in
a spiritual or religious element. “What are the necessary characteristics of a kingship?” asked the speaker. “There are several which
seem to me to be absolutely necessary before a man can be a good king.

“First, the end to be sought by this leader must be the right end. He must not be selfish, but
he must be willing to serve the people. Absalom had a desire to be a king, but he was desirous
from a selfish standpoint and he died a grotesque, I might almost say, (Continued on page 5)
