THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1925

Ministerial Band Hears Dr. Sevier

Dr. Joseph R. Sevier, president of the Fassifern School at Hendersonville, addressed the Ministerial Band in Shearer Hall last Sunday. Mr. Johnson introduced the speaker. The topic of Dr. Sevier’s talk was: “The Measure of a Man.” His scripture reading was taken from Rev. 21-17. He pointed out that man is not measured by the linear system or by money standards. The ministerial candidate must top the scales of manhood far greater than other men. His standard should be unselfishness, vision, and high ideals.

The band will have the installation of officers next Sunday. The following officers were elected: A. B. Williford, president; D. H. Stewart, vice-president; L. K. Pritchett, secretary. The same treasurer, Joe Garrison, will continue in office until the end of the year. The old officers were: Bowie, Goodykoontz, and Murchison.

Because a large number of the band were in Mooresville, the attendance was not up to the average. About twenty of the boys went to Mooresville to hold a religious census of the town. This was done at the request of the pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Mooresville.

TOWN NEWS

Robert Black, of the class of ’22, and a prominent football player, spent the past weekend at the home of his parents on Concord Street. Mr. Black is now coaching football in the Wilmington High School.

Mr. Shields is the proud father of a baby girl, born last week.

Miss Alice Pitts, from High Point, spent the past weekend at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel, as the visitor of Miss Lillie Helper.

Miss Lettie Beatty was the speaker at the meeting of the Woman’s Auxiliary last Thursday at the local church. Miss Beatty, a niece of Mrs. N. A. Barnes, is engaged in missionary work in Mexico City. She is now home on furlough.

Prof. M. C. S. Noble, Jr., spent the weekend at his home in Chapel Hill, where he attended the Carolina-Virginia game.

Mr. Joe McConnell attended the Army-Navy football game in New York last Saturday.

Mr. Spencer Cranford has been at the home of his parents during the past week. Mr. Cranford has been startling the local people with a ring-off-the-string trick which he has perfected.

IMPERIAL
Charlotte, N. C.
NOW PLAYING
D. W. GRIFFITH'S Latest Production
“That Royle Girl”
A melo-romance of the Chicago jazz-belt. One of the year’s best pictures!
Coming Monday, Dec. 7th
Buster Keaton in “Go West”
A laugh-buster of the great open spaces

WILDCAT ELEVEN FLASHES

(Continued from page 1)

McEachern for Wearn, Laird for Anderson, Leggette for R. Grey, Ritchie for Laird, Harrison for Leggette, Lincoln for Ritchie, J. Grey for Melton, McComb for Wells, Harrison for Leggette.

The team to score a touchdown. The Blue Devils threatened to score several times, particularly in the first and fourth periods. Their defense was like a stone wall at times, when the Presbyterians had to resort to aerial tactics to gain any ground. Monk Younger, head coach of the Wildcats, described the first touchdown of the game, which resulted from a long pass from Grey to Wells and a sprint down the field, as the most perfectly executed play he had ever seen in football.

R. O. T. C. News

The student body of Davidson College is greatly indebted to Sergeants Kirby and Brittain for their tireless work at the football games that have been on the hill. These men have supervised the ushering and guarding at all the games, and the R. O. T. C. Department has cooperated with the Athletic Association in every way possible. Sergeant Kirby has personally supervised the direction of all the traffic, and is responsible for the fine way in which it has been handled. These men have worked out of their own free will, without any recompense, and the students of the college owe them a vote of thanks.

The Davidson College Rifle Team has always been fair, but has never before been excellent. This year prospects look very encouraging, and under the direction of Captain Daugherty a winning team is confidently expected. The students who make the rifle team have been giving it a lot of extra time and hard work. At N. C. State College the members of the rifle team get the same recognition as in other minor sports. Here they get no recognition whatsoever. Should not the Davidson Athletic Association adopt a policy of giving the rifle team some form of recognition? If our varsity rifle team comes out this year in the first four of the southern colleges, surely they should have some form of athletic award or monogram.

Captain Weems, P. M. Sgt. has purchased $50 worth of brass buttons, and distributed them to the battalion. This will make all the uniforms similar in every detail, and will enable the battalion to make a better showing in parades and reviews.

The traveling repair man of the United States Army has just inspected the equipment of the local unit. His report was very gratifying to the officials here. He reports that the rifles and equipment were in better condition than any in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. The Military Department hopes very much to get a distinguished rating this year. This of course is very difficult to obtain, and would mean a lot to the college if it got it. To get this rating, some college such as Georgia Tech, Clemson, or Citadel, would have to be displaced by Davidson. Nevertheless, the battalion is looking very good, and Captain Weems is confident that our chances for obtaining distinguished rating are very good this year.

A man who says he is an atheist is usually, first of all, an egoist.

Formerly only one girl turned a man’s head—now they all do.

Evidently the sidelines did also, as they came to their feet with a cheer that resounded throughout the village. The stands were colorful with gay-hued dress of men as well as women. The military band led the assembled students in the singing of “O! Davidson,” and yells and cheers were hurled back from both sides of the field. When the last whistle was blown, every Davidson player was lifted to his feet by admirers who flocked onto the field to show their admiration for the little team that has held its own with every foe met on the football field.this season. Every man on the Red and Black team played a valiant game. Hendrix, Wells, and Black, playing their last game, all added their speed and might to the advancing of the ball through the territory defended by the heavy forwards of Duke. Little Dick Grey twinkled his toes time after time to the tune of the heavy thudding of the Blue Devils’ feet which followed on his heels. Arrowood, Baker, and Vance more than did their own work in the line. They were into every play. For the Dukemen, Grigg, Thompson, Culp, and Finley were the outstanding players. Grey kicked off perfectly to within a yard or two of the Methodists’ goal line. The ball was returned only a few yards, and when forced, the Blue Devils got off a short punt. After one line plunge, Grey took the ball on a trick pass and whirled it to Lucian Wells, who was running at full speed. The runner grabbed the ball out of mid-air and thence over the line for a touchdown. Grey kicked goal. Both teams threatened during the remainder of the first period, the Methodists driving hard at times, the Wildcats having to exert every bit of their strength to keep the blue-jerseyed men from their territory. Grey attempted a field goal from the 45-yard line but failed.

In the second quarter, Hendrix snagged a 10-yard pass from Grey and raced another 10 for the second touchdown of the game. The try for goal was not successful. The ball remained in the center of the field for a while, neither side being able to get to the other’s line. The most sensational play of the game was that of Grey when he grabbed the ball from center and ran roughshod over the whole opposition to the goal line, 30 yards away. He had to crawl the last few feet, having been knocked off his feet by a heavy tackle. Black, captain of the Wildcats, drove the ball over for a touchdown in the third quarter, following a 65-yard advance up the field from the kick-off. Neither team was able to score or gain much ground in the final period. The Methodists missed the assistance of Caldwell, their backfield star, but they played a stiff game nevertheless. Davidson outplayed her opponents in every department of the game.

Duke (0) 
Kelly 
Brigg (c) 
Simon 
Position, LE 
Davidson (26) 
Pinkney 
Anderson 
Vance 
McConnell 
Melton 
Baker (c) 
Rip 
Arrowood 
Culp 

The Y. M. C. A. has, as usual, sent this year several deputations to various points in the state. The purpose, in general, of these deputations is to bring before the boys of the high schools and other organizations the right ideals concerning the college man and college life, to let them know the Christian college man’s viewpoint of character building, right living, and scholarship. On October 30, Don Stuart attended an Older Boys’ Conference at Shelby, N. C. Next, there were two deputations sent from here, sponsored by Mr. Grady H. Leonard, Hi-Y worker for western North Carolina. The first of these, composed of W. M. Gracey, Morgan Speir, Jim Appleby, and Vernon Broyles, was sent on November 21 to North Wilkesboro and Elkins, N. C. The next weekend, F. C. McRae went to Morganton to attend the Older Boys’ Conference held there. The Ministerial Band also has sent out several representatives for various purposes. For the last two Sunday afternoons, from twelve to fifteen members of this organization have gone to Mooresville where they rendered very valuable aid to some of the pastors who are taking a religious census of the mill village. The “Y” has several more deputations planned for the future. On December 5th, six men will be sent to Salisbury, N. C., and after Christmas representatives will probably be sent to Lexington, N. C.

Some people seem to take more interest in our affairs than we do ourselves. After winning a woman’s hand, a man sometimes finds himself under her thumb. Some people can’t use their own advice because they give it all to others,—Dayton News. The people who complain that they never have a show are generally waiting for free passes.

Professional Notices
DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314, and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5050 Residence, 1937-3
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Telephones 12 South Tryon Street
Office 8171 Res. 3419-W
Over Garibaldi & Bruns
DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.
Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST
Charlotte, N.C.

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Telephone 3528

When in Mooresville
Mack & Tkall for your High Grade Candy
Cigarettes and Fruit

LET US FIX YOUR MOORESVILLE BICYCLE FOR THAT HUNT
We have a good line of shotguns to sell or to rent. Rates $1.00 per day. Also dependable shells
SHOP, Mooresville, N. C.

YOUR APPEARANCE
Is very important, in fact, it is absolutely necessary to appear at your best at all times.
LET US ASSIST YOU.
THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP
Statesville, N. C.
P. C. McILWAINE, Mgr.

QUALITY SERVICE WHEN YOU FURNISH YOUR FRATERNITY
The Premiere Cleaner and Presser
OUR WORK GUARANTEED TO PLEASE
CITY PRESSING CLUB
Davidson, N. C.

Scoring: Touchdowns: Wells, Hendrix, Grey, Black, substituting for Farrell. Extra point after touchdown: Grey, Laird. Officials: Referee, Elcock (Dartmouth); Umpire, Gass (Lehigh); Head linesman, Alexander (W. and L). Time of quarters, 15 minutes; attendance, 3,000. Substitutions: Duke: Tuttle for Frank, Eams for Culp, Stevens for Pickens, Bennett for Webb, Finley for Sellars, Moss for Grigg, Eadins for Thompson, Swift for Reitzel, Weaver for Cathey. Davidson: Black for Farrell; Bohannon for Pinkney, Laird for Anderson, Ritchie for Baker, Nisbet for Wells, J. Grey for Vance, Hewlett for Hendrix, Christian for Melton, Baker for Ritchie, Anderson for Laird, Wells for Nisbet, Vance for J. Grey, Hendrix for Hewlett, Melton for Christian, Pinkney for Bohannon, Wearn for Bohannon.

WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.
Fresh Home Made Candies!
For the Holiday Season
We give prompt attention to all orders and wish to solicit your patronage
PIEDMONT CANDY KITCHEN
PHONE 129 18 N. TRYON ST.
LATEST COLUMBIA RECORDS
MOORESVILLE, N. C.