6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 17, 1925

Fresh-Soph Finals to be Held Monday

In the semi-finals of last week, the team from the Pandenic Society decisively defeated the Metrophilian team, while the Philanthropic bunch nosed out the Eumeneans. These two victors, the Pandenic team upholding the affirmative with the Philanthropic team defending the negative, will wind up the fall debating season Monday night, the twenty-first, each in a desperate try for honor. The Pandenic representatives are J. R. Graham, K. Pritchett, and W. M. Regan, all Freshmen, while those representing the Philanthropic Society are F. A. Phillips, L. K. Pritchett, and R. B. Walters. The question to be argued, which is the one that has been used throughout the preliminaries, is, Resolved: That the United States should cancel her Inter-Allied War Debts. Members of the faculty will act as judges. From the six debaters, the best speaker will be selected who will receive the Fresh-Soph award.

The idea of having the tryouts in the fall instead of the early spring, as has been the rule, has met with general approval of all. The Forensic Council especially has been well pleased with the debating material discovered, for these debates have been a way of getting a line on prospective varsity men, and some promising candidates have been found.

SIGMA UPSILON MEETS

The regular meeting of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, was held in Professor Bailey’s room at the home of Mrs. Wooten last Friday evening. Several articles, some original and some by famous contemporaneous authors, were read and enjoyed by the members present. Prof. J. H. Davis read a paper on the famous playwright, Eugene O'Neil, entitled “The Man and His Works.” After this selection, a very interesting resume on “Desire Under the Elms” was rendered by H. L. Shaw. S. W. Brown read an original one-act play, “No Luck.” After the program, the host served a sumptuous refreshment consisting of ambrosia, cake, and cigars. Those present were Dr. E. F. Shewmake, Prof. John Bailey, Prof. E. T. Erwin, Prof. J. H. Davis, R. B. Parker, C. F. Smith, T. C. Barr, S. W. Browne, H. L. Shaw, and W. H. Allison.

Special Xmas Music to be Feature of Vespers

Shearer Hall to be Decorated in Accordance With Yuletide Spirit

The Y vespers next Sunday will be somewhat out of the ordinary. The entire service will be in the nature of a song service with appropriate Christmas music. The Glee Club has arranged for several choruses and also selections by the Glee Club quartette. In addition to this, there will be music by the Glee Club orchestra. Additional selections will be given by a mandolin and guitar trio. This is the first time a program like this has been tried, but with the cooperation of the students, it should prove an inspiring service. The chapel will be decorated with decorations appropriate for the season. There will be no speaker for the occasion, and the entire time will be given to the singing of Christmas hymns. This is the last Sunday before Christmas, and it is hoped that this last service of the year will be the best of all. A special invitation is given to all the students to come and take part in the meeting.

TOWN NOTES

Rev. and Mrs. Cummings, missionaries to Japan, are visiting Mrs. John F. Caldwell, on Concord St. Misses Katherine Porter, Nina Holt White, Kitty Martin, Sophie Richards, Letitia Curry, and Charlotte Hunter are expected home from their various colleges the latter part of the week. Mrs. Lingle and daughter, Miss Sarah Lingle, have returned from a recent trip to Europe.

“Well, dad, I just ran up to say ‘hello!’”
“Too late, Son, your Mother has just been up to say ‘good-bye’ and has gotten all the change I had.”

ART FLOWER SHOP
DAVIS ROBINSON, Proprietor
336 North Tryon St.
Telephone 6728
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

FELLOWS, WE BELIEVE IN CO-OPERATION
We serve the best and leave it to our satisfied customers to do the rest.
The Sanitary Cafe
Mooresville, N. C.
Next door to Artcraft Theatre

Christmas! The mere mention of the “magic” word brings to our minds a host of pleasant memories of joyful experiences and delicious eats—and speaking of delicious eats draws our attention immediately to The Student Store. All Kinds of Supplies for College Men. It’s Yours—Why Not Patronize It?

Sixteen Lettermen Will Play Again Next Season

Three All-State Players Will Graduate—Prospects Bright

Prospects for the Wildcat team of 1926 appear more brilliantly than ever before now that sixteen lettermen have announced their definite intentions of returning. Only five of the members of the Wildcat team of last season will not be present at the initial practice next fall. These are Hendrix, Baker, Vance, Laird, and McComb. These five are some of the best and strongest of the Wildcat players, and their loss will be a severe blow to the Davidson machine. Anderson is as yet undecided, but it is very probable that he will take his place along with the rest of the linemen next season. If he does not return, it will be a severe blow to the middle portion of the line, since it will mean that only one out of the four tackles receiving their letters this year will return. All three of the Davidson men making the mythical all-state team will be lost to the team next year. Baker and Vance, two of the best linemen in the state, will not return, and Hendrix, the fleetest back in the Carolinas, has already played his allotted four years. Laird, who has been starring in Davidson games ever since that famous run of his against V.P. I. back in 1922, will never again don the old red jersey of the Wildcats. The red head of McComb will not flash through the opponents for neat gains during the season of 1926 as it has in former years.

Although many of the star players will not be in school next year, there will be many members of this year’s squad at early practice next fall. Captain Black, Captain-elect Wells, Dick Grey, Harrison, Nisbet, Hewlette, and Leggette will be the nucleus around which Coach Monk will build his back-field next year. The three varsity ends will all be back and the wing positions will be well taken care of. The tackle positions will be nicely taken care of, if Anderson returns, since Ritchie, the other letterman, will also return to fill the position left vacant by Baker. The guard and center positions will be filled by McConnell, Grey, and Melton.

Besides the members of this year’s varsity squad, there will be the fresh team of this year to draw from. Two star players of the fresh team of '24 have also announced their intentions of returning and should make strong bids for berths on next year’s eleven. These men are Robert McMillan and Ed Wilson, both of Charlotte.

Although it would be foolish to predict a successful season at this time of the year, one cannot help but see that Davidson will have a great deal of good material back next year and should produce a smooth-running and efficient machine. And with Coach Monk behind a team, it is safe to predict that the aggregation will fight to their last breath.

LUCIAN WELLS IS CHOSEN
(Continued from page 1)

The following are the high spots in the colorful athletic career of the captain-elect:

1922—Did not go out for fresh football.
1923—November 9. Played in his first game of college football, starting against Clemson. Played good game at left halfback.
November 15—First mention of Wells in the columns of The Davidsonian: “Davidson failed to gain and punted, Wells recovering Robinson’s fumble on Davidson’s 43-yard line.”
November 22—Wells started against Carolina, played a great game. Made his initial first down on a 24-yard pass from Jim Hendrix. Repeated with a gain of 13 yards, placing the ball on the Tar Heel five-yard line.
December 15—Awarded his first letter on account of good work in Clemson, Carolina, and Trinity games.
1924—November 20—Played for first time on Richardson Field, being most consistent ground gainer as Davidson opened season with 14-0 victory over Elon.
November 6—First picture published appears in The Davidsonian, telling also of great work against State.
1925—Spring. Pitched Davidson to only two wins of baseball season, winning letter as pitcher and outfielder.
September 1—Began his third year of varsity practice.
October 3—Wonderful playing tied Wake Forest 7-7 as he scored his first touchdown. Flying tackle of Rackley by Wells recorded as prettiest ever seen on Wearn Field.
December 12—Elected to lead Wildcats in 1926.

Exchanges

The students of the College of the City of New York voted by an overwhelming majority for the removal of compulsory military training. The final vote was 2,092 in favor of the petition and 349 against.

The undergraduates at Yale College, after a week’s open discussion, voted overwhelmingly in favor of abolishing compulsory attendance to all religious services, including chapel. Two days of balloting resulted in a vote of 1,681 for and 241 against. They have petitioned the faculty to take this matter up and settle it for all time. Following this, the Penn. College Collegian is also carrying on a compulsory chapel campaign. It states that the desire is first to get the opinion of all the students and then if they want it abolished, a petition will be sent to the authorities.

A new social club, “The Baronets,” has been founded at the University of Florida. The formation of this club shows that the University has realized and is meeting a need, evolved from the tendency toward fraternity, or group isolation. The object of the club is to promote cordial relations between the respective member fraternities which belong to the organization, and through this to foster Florida spirit and tradition.

Columbia students, according to Professor Moore of Dartmouth, who made a nation-wide survey of student views, are the most radical in the United States.

DAVIDSON DELEGATES
(Continued from page 1)

...except the finances of the student body. It was decided that it would be impracticable and Mr. Sprunt was asked to serve.

“How about twenty bucks, Dad?”
“No thank you, son, you’d better keep it, you'll be broke next week.”

“You get out of a mirror just what you put into it.” Good logic, we'll say. Same way about a suit or overcoat. If you put enough into it you get fine, all-wool fabrics, correct style, and expert tailoring. Although we’ve never been accused of being the highest priced place in the world, we do admit that our clothes cost a little more than the ordinary kind. But our clothes are not ordinary, and you get one dollar’s worth of service and good looks for every dollar you put into them.

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PIANOS
The new Edison Records---The new Columbia Records
All kinds of musical instruments
406 West Trade Street, Opposite Post Office

Pressing Club
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Shoe Shine Parlor
Have your old hats cleaned and reblocked $.50.
SAVE MONEY

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS
RECORDS AND ROLLS
ANDREW
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC
OLDEST IN THE STATE
MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.