THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1925

OWN UKE ON DIAMOND

Central Cafe
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

BROWN Co. CLOTHIERS

“COLLEGE!” That's what the new Society Brand Boulevard says to you. College clothes are not like other clothes. College men
wear what they like and if Fifth Avenue doesn’t like it, so much the worse for Fifth Avenue. Society Brand
makes clothes for college men. That’s why they make the best.

Dobbs Hats
French, Shriner and Urner Oxfords
Manhattan Shirts

Wake Forest Also Wins From Younger’s Team.
Varsity Bows 8-2 in Second Defeat of Road Trip—Many Errors

The Wake Forest baseball team defeated the Wildcat nine last Friday by the score of 8-2. The game was Wake
Forest’s the whole way through and was never in doubt after the fourth inning. The Wildcats were unable to connect
with the leather and made several errors. Armstrong was the star of the afternoon in the batting, making three hits
out of four trips to the platter. Woodham, Riley, and Hood also hit well, getting two safeties each out of
four times at bat. The Wake Forest team played jam-up ball making only one error during the whole game.

Wake Forest
Timberlake, ss AB RH POAE
SSESCRESS CSU SUE ty (HE, A) 240
Holteal fi cesssvss seus 000
Armstrong, 1b 12 0 0
SChbVe Nieecemees sc. see Io 0
Montinger, cf 4.0 0
Ril@ve gh) sete: Seay 14 0
HOG CO ae ae oar 402601
SRUtOM ap sacs oes seem 3.00020
SHON, Py 000000
Hidtalsscsss ae ees 33 8 1027 11 1

Davidson
AB RH POAE
GlChnygssi oe 3 0,0 0 2 2
Covington, 3b --.---___. Sot 10.9370
Woodham, 1b ~-----_-- 4 1 210 3 0
Sy AN Of as 401000
Manictrinfo sicssceco ses 401300
ILENE bi) ] eetpeeee cena ee etre 400100
Simpson, 2b —-_-__-__ I0.0 5 2 2
WVARGNN GCs eee ees G2 000ne. 11
OUCH: ease ee 200020
WHE MON PMO, 0) eee 000000
MAVVE IS ne acres saa 100000
otal gs eic a oye 42413 3

Score by innings: RHE
Wake Forest 110 320 02x—8 10 1
IDE WACO ys pe 002 000 000—2 4 5

Summary: Two base hits, Armstrong, Vance; three base hits, Timberlake, Riley (2); stolen bases, Montinger, Covington; struck out by Bruton,
5; by Simmons, 1; by Oden, 1; bases on balls, off Bruton, 2; off Simmons, 1; off Oden, 1; off
Hampton, 1; hits, off Bruton, 3 hits with 2 runs, in 7 innings; off Simmons, 1, with 0 runs in
2 innings; off Oden, 8 with 6 runs, in eight innings, off Hampton, 2 with 2 runs in 1 inning.
Losing pitcher, Oden; winning pitcher, Bruton. Umpire, Holding.

VARSITY TRACK TEAM MEETS U. S. C. TODAY

The Davidson track team will battle against the Gamecocks of the University of South Carolina on Saturday, April 18. The
meet will be held at Columbia on the track of the University. The teams are rated about even and the
meet is expected to be the most closely contested that the Wildcats will engage in. Davidson downed the Wofford boys
by a score of 87 to 39 and the South Carolina team defeated them by exactly the same margin. A
comparison of the times made in the different events shows the two teams about equal. The Wildcats have been slightly
crippled for most of the season but are expected to be in first-class shape for the meet.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

Seems as if Davidson is going 1000 strong in baseball—but it’s in the opposite direction.

The first seven games of the season lost cannot be called a bad start, for when seven games have been
played the Wildcats only have ten left, in which a turn of the table might occur. It’s a problem to
know just exactly what is the matter with the team. Of course hitting is a big thing, and the team
isn't doing that as it should. But the fielding has been something fierce—so many errors. The freshmen lost to Rockingham
high school because of over-confidence; but maybe it is the opposite with the varsity—lack of confidence.

Though we say the freshmen lost the Rockingham high game because of over-confidence, we do not mean to say that
the high school boys didn’t have a good team. They always do, and that day they seemed to land on
the offerings of the three Davidson pitchers with ease. They were a nice bunch of fellows, and were courteous in
every respect.

Davidson continued her winning over Duke this year when the freshmen amassed 22 runs to their 8 in their game
here last Saturday. Everybody was hitting the ball that day.

It was a different tune, though, when the freshmen went to Raeford to meet the American Legion team. The question
then was, Who is going to get hit? For bingles were scarce both days, and each time it was a
pitcher’s battle. Oden won his game, being given splendid support—the best of the season; but Maulden lost his battle.

There were only two earned runs in that last game, and Davidson made those; therefore, by that reasoning the score
should have been 2 to 0 in Davidson’s favor, instead of 5 to 3, for Raeford. The freshmen will soon
go up against even stronger opposition, and then it will be...possible to learn what we have in store for next
year’s varsity. It would appear, and it’s the truth, that Carolina and Wake Forest are going to fight it out
for state honors on the baseball diamond. April 30 they meet at Wake Forest and May 20, they clash at
Chapel Hill. They're going to be great games, and some spectacular ball those days.

However, it took Elon and Guilford to put a scare in their camps, the Quakers tackling Wake Forest and the
Christians the Tar Heels, for close scores and exciting games.

Georgia Tech is going to be met again this year. The golf teams of these two institutions meet in Charlotte
Saturday. Brand, Calhoun, and Captain Gracey are all in good shape now and ought to be able to perform well
against the Gamecocks. News from the latter’s camp is scarce but writeups indicate that they have real stars in Gaston,
Hanahan, DeLorme, and Seideman. Probably the two outstanding lights of the Davidson team are Captain Gracey and Harry Goodykoontz. This
is Goodykoontz’s first year on the team and his running has been one of the features of the meets.

Tennis Team Leaves to Invade East This Week
Captain Price’s Men Make Big Trip Into Virginia and Maryland

The Davidson tennis team sets out on its spring trip Monday the 20th and opens its invasion of the Middle
Atlantic the following day with a match at College Park, Md., against the University of Maryland. The veteran four, Price,
Mac Beall, Trotter, and Staley will be supplemented by L. M. McCutcheon whose sensational play has won him second place
on the team. On Wednesday the 22nd the Wildcats meet the Navy racketeers at Annapolis, then Thursday come south to
Charlottesville for a match with the University of Virginia. The Union Seminary team at Richmond will come next and the
tour ends Saturday in Winston-Salem, N. C., with a match with the W. S. Country Club. Harry Price holds his
place at No. 1 and will play all the lead matches and teamed with Leighton McCutcheon, who plays No. 2,
the lead doubles. MacPherson Beall, T. F. Staley, and Jim Trotter complete the ranking as named. Each of the five
meets to be played will probably include five singles and two doubles matches. This eastern trip includes all the remaining
meets that have been scheduled. Others may be contracted for later and as has been customary in past years the
entire team will enter the State Meet in May.

FRESH BASEBALL NINE MAKES BIG TRIP

For the next ten days the freshman baseball team will have its hands full holding up the famed Wildcat spirit,
for in that time they play five teams, four of them being the fresh teams of the other members of
the “Big Five.” Judging from these games it may be possible to get a line on the varsity teams of
tomorrow. On Tuesday, April 21, the Duke fresh are encountered at Durham. After this game the Davidson fresh move to
Chapel Hill where the Carolina yearlings are to be met. Next, Wake Forest is played on their home grounds Friday,
April 24. Ending the trip on Saturday, April 25, State is met after which the team turns its steps homeward.
Of the pitchers being developed by Coach Rawson, Oden seems to be the outstanding man. In the game at Raeford
on Monday, April 13, he allowed only five hits two of which were scratches. Mauldin and Poole are also showing
form and the prospects for varsity pitchers are exceedingly good for next year. The outfield is well taken care of
in Edwards, Johnson and Mauldin the latter when he is not pitching. Coach Rawson is planning to take about fourteen
men on the trip and the selected team should give any fresh team in the state a stiff battle.

HOLLINGSWORTH WINS
(Continued from page 1)

most versatile speakers in Davidson by winning this second oration within a week. Only a few days before he won
the Junior Speaking contest over several capable speakers. He was also a member of the intercollegiate debating team that was
defeated by Emory last fall. Besides being a leader in forensic lines, he is also a leader in various other
campus activities. He was elected to lead the Y for next year and was also chosen as a member of
the student council for the coming year.

On These Cold Days---
GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES
They Satisfy the Appetite
W. G. SHIELDS

HEAD COLDS
Melt a little Vicks in a spoon and inhale the medicated vapors. Apply frequently up the nostrils. Always use freely
just before going to bed.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

For High Class PRINTING of every description
“Jam-Up” SERVICE see
C. M. S. McIlwaine
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

All kinds of accessory clothing shown every Friday in the lobby of West Dormitory by Joe Harrison Clothing Company
APPLEBY AND MILTON, Mgrs.

Wholesale
When You Need Candy
See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
