THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 14, 1925

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

On These Cold Days---
GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES
They Satisfy the Appetite
W. G. SHIELDS

First Tramp—"Bill, what's insomnia?”
Second Tramp—"Insomnia? Why, where a fellow can't sleep at night over 10 or 12 hours without waking up.”

Breathes there a stude
With soul so dead
Who never to his roomie said,
“Cut out that light and go to bed?”

Pressley—"How do you get so many girls?”
Christenberry—"Oh, I just sprinkle a little gasoline on my handkerchief.”

“I'm going to the dogs,” said the stude as he walked into a weenie stand.

“I give up,” said the sea-sick passenger.

Jack—"Have the geese started south yet?”
“I loved ten women, just to think, eight of them must have had Pyorrhea!”

Staple and Fancy Groceries
Quantity Quality Service
H. M. JOHNSTON
Phone 20

“It may puzzle your mind as to how I can find all these wheezes so ancient and tough, but they're
all handed in as new and original stuff!”

The latest tango dance record on sale is entitled: “Tango Rain No Mo.”

“Liza, didja wear them flowers I sent ya?”
“Ah didn't wear nothin' else but Black Boy.”
“Lawd, Gal, where didja pin 'em?”

Wrigley’s increases the flow of saliva and relieves that “stuffed” feeling. Clears the throat, steadies nerves, and sweetens the breath.
Cleans teeth too.
“Costs little—helps much”

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank

Curry—"How would you punctuate this sentence? Phyllis coming down the street in a split skirt smiled sweetly at the boys.”
“I'd make a dash after Phyllis.”

Telegram to Friend—"Washout on line, cannot come.”
Reply—"Come anyway, borrow a shirt.”

“Is it cold without?”
“Without what?”
“Breeches.”

Dumb—"Say, do they have asbestos curtains in this show?”
Bell—"Why, the chorus girls have a tendency to get too near them.”

1st Musician—"Do you know Marseillaise?”
2nd Musician—"Sure, Marseillaise in the cold, cold ground.”

Aviator—"Want a ride, little girl?”
She—"No, thank you, I left my parachute home.”

'28—"I'm not smoking.”
'27—"Well, you got your mouth.”

“My boy, you were out after 10 last night; a thing you should not have done.”
“Oh, no, you're mistaken quite, dear sir, 'twas only after one!”

“'Tis great to behold,” sighed Mark Antony as he viewed the pyramids. Whereat Cleo snuggled closer and whispered in his
ear, “'Tis greater to be held.”

Here lies the body of James Vaughn,
He stopped on the crossing,
The train went on.

“Your wife just eloped with the ice man.”
“Too bad, no more ice!”

'25—"Fresh; chase down town and get me a package of Camels. See that you're back here in five minutes.”
'28—"Y-y-yes, I'll get 'em and be back in five minutes, if it takes me all day.”

“I wrote a song about you; it's called ‘Don't Say Nay.’”
“Where'd you write it—in a livery stable?”

“Are you the blacksmith?” the stranger inquired of a darkie hanging round the village store.
“No, Sah, my name is Johnson.”

“No, I never allow anyone to embrace me.”
“You don’t? Let's dance, then.”
“All right.”

She—"Meet me at the library at seven.”
“All right, what time will you be there?”

Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um! Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

Dunn—"Smoking hey?”
Hill—"No, Camels.”

Simp—"I just saw a horse with a wooden leg.”
Son—"Where?”
Simp—"On the merry-go-round.”

Mr. Cohen—"Ikey, stop putting your fingers to your nose.”
Ikey—"Aw, fadder, can't I have some fun on my own hook?”

By the sleeping big sea water
Lived an Indian maiden fair,
With large eyes, as soft as reindeer's,
And with fragrant, plaited hair.

First Stude—"I was with Mary in the library last night when the...lights went out.”

Second Student—“What did you do?”

First—“Nothing.”

Second—“Couldn’t you find her?”

She was wooed by Fling Eagle, Hunter of the grassy plain; Supple as the bending willow, Fearless as the flashing
rain. And he built for her a teepee, Hid the door with reindeer-hides, Dug a fireplace at the entrance, Where
the winter food was dried. In the spring he wed the maiden By the sounding big seashore, Now there’s One
little, two little, three little Indians, Four little, five little, six little Indians, Seven little, eight little, nine little Indians,
And probably there'll be more!

“I know my eggs,” said the hen, as she scratched the china egg out of her nest.

“What part of Hell did you come from?”

Mabel—“Dunno, I haven't noticed the so- all great men are dead, and ea Say, you can't smoke in this building.”

'28—“Yes, and you got your pants a, but And make it snappy, ‘mah name Our idea of a refined sip
is Maple Syrup.

Sigma Pi Sigma Plans to Establish New Chapter Honorary Fraternity to Install Chapter at Duke University Thursday Evening

The Sigma Pi Sigma Honorary Fraternity will install a new chapter at Duke University, Thursday evening, May 14. This fraternity
was founded at Davidson College in 1921 as an honor society given in the field of Physics. The object of
the organization was to increase interest in the study of Physics in particular, and the encouragement of scientific research in
general. Up to the present, the fraternity has been run entirely as a local organization, but now it has been
decided to expand to a national level. The new chapter will be known as the Sigma Beta chapter, the local
one being the Sigma Alpha.

In all, about 20 will be taken in at Duke. From the faculty, Professor Edwards, widely known in scientific circles,
and Professor Hatley, will be taken in. Besides these, there will be two fellows in the scientific department and 16
students.

The officers of the new national organization are all from the Davidson mother chapter. J. W. Graves is the president
of the organization. The other officers are Prof. J. A. Douglas, Prof. W. N. Mebane, F. C. Ziegler, and L.
B. Huie. The president stated that no new chapters other than the one at Duke will be installed, but plans
are being made for expansion next fall.

M. W. T. Vick will go to Durham about the middle of the week to install the chapter.

Professor (in Biology class)—“We will name all of the lower animals in their order, beginning with Mr. Jones.”

We are very sorry to have you leave us, and hope that you will pay us a visit sometime in
the future.

“Here’s wishing you a very successful voyage against the rocks of the world.”

To the men who remain with us for a while longer: may you have a BIG TIME this summer with
all the pleasures that vacation time affords.

WHITE DRUG CO.

Thank you Seniors for the privilege of allowing us to serve you for the past four years.

COLUMBIA THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY COLUMBIA, S. C.

FACULTY

RICHARD THOMAS GILLESPIE, A.B., B.D., D.D. President of the Seminary.

WILLIAM M. McPHEETERS, D.D., LL.D. Professor of Old Testament Literature and Exegesis.

RICHARD C. REED, D.D., LL.D. Professor of Ecclesiastical History and Church Polity.

MELTON CLARK, A.B., B.D., D.D. Professor of the English Bible and Religious Education.

EDGAR D. KERR, A.B., B.D., D.D. Professor of Hebrew and Cognate Languages.

JAMES BENJAMIN GREEN, A.B., D.D. Professor of Didactic and Polemic Theology.

HUGH R. MURCHISON, A.B., B.D., D.D. Instructor in Missions.

WALTER P. TAYLOR, Ph.D. Instructor in Elocution.

For information write RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

Victrolas Victor Records Steinway Pianos Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos Player Piano Rolls

Parker-Gardner Company CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Furniture, Rugs, Draperies and Interior Decorations We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls,
Etc.

BASEBALL SUPPLIES BATS, GLOVES, EVERYTHING A WILDCAT NEEDS STUDENT'S STORE DRINKS, SOAP, PENNANTS

R. O. SELLARS
