THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1925

Win Places On All-State Eleven

Jim Hendrix
Harry Vance

Sport Scribes Pick Three Davidson Men for Places on Mythical All-State Team

OUR COACHES PICK

Monk’s Team
Position
Baker (D) G
McIver (Car.) LT
Emerson (W. F.) LG
Vance (D. C.) C
McIver (Car.) RG
Whisnant (Car.) RT
Robinson (Car.) RE
Doderror (Car.) QB
Rackley (W. F.) LH
Hendrix (D. C.) RH
Greasom (W. F.) FB
Black (D. C.)

Tex’s Baker (D. C.)

Davidson Harriers Defeated by Duke

Preceding the Duke-Davidson football game on Thanksgiving Day, the cross-country teams of these institutions met in a three-mile race. The
run occurred at 11:30 o’clock. The runners of Davidson were less successful than the football team and went down by
a 31-24 score. The coaches of Davidson had told the team that if they won this meet, they would be
permitted to participate in the State meet, but the Duke team was too strong for them.

Malbry came in first. Penn of Davidson was close on his heels. It was a close race between these men
from the beginning, but Malbry held a slight lead throughout the grind. Malbry ran the full three miles in sixteen
minutes flat. The Davidson entrants of the race were Penn, Webb, Miller, Vance, Ely, Treverton, and Wiliford. Duke took first,
third, and fourth places. Penn took second place, and the next places taken by the Wildcats were fifth and sixth.
Malbry was the best runner of the race, but Penn was in his class, and had he had men to
back up his beginning, the score would have been different. After he had taken second place, the majority of the
Davidson men came in the last places.

The men who have been out for the cross-country team this year have worked hard and deserve much consideration. They
have not been seemingly successful but have done all that they could to win. The man who sometimes receives the
greatest praise is not the one who makes the team, but the one who sticks it out until the last
day, and if at the end of his school he still has not made the team, he has a world
of admirers for his determination. It’s a disappointment, it is true, but a glory in another sense.

The Davidson College classes in Education have been giving Intelligence Tests in the local High School. The efficiency of the
High School will doubtlessly be increased by the information obtained through these tests.

With Coveted Position on Team

IS COMPOSITE PICK

Eight Wildcats Are Placed By Writers on Various All-State Teams

On the composite all-state pick, made from the selection of all the sport writers in the state, there were three
Davidson men selected. These were Tom Baker and Harry Vance, in the line, and Jim Hendrix, in the backfield. Vance
and Baker were chosen as the two guards on the mythical team, while Hendrix was selected as one of the
halves. Carolina placed four men on this composite of the mythical outfits. Wake Forest had three and Duke, one, while
the other schools did not place any.

This final selection was arrived at by taking the votes of the all-state teams from the sports writers of all
the leading dailies and also the picks of the feature writers for the Charlotte News and Observer. Carolina, and Riley,
Wake Forest, were the players chosen to hold down the flank positions. At tackles, Robinson, Carolina, and Emerson, Wake Forest,
were selected. Davidson had the guard positions sewed up with Baker and Vance being selected. McIver, Carolina, holds down the
pivot position. At quarter, Rackley, Wake Forest, was selected almost unanimously. Hendrix, Davidson, and Underwood, Carolina, as halves, and Caldwell,
Duke, fullback, fill out the team.

Harry Vance was picked by many for his regular place at guard and won a place easily at that position.
Vance is unquestionably the best guard in the two Carolinas, his great work having been noted for two years, gaining
complete recognition this year. One paper even suggested him as all-Southern.material. "Brassie" Baker was chosen by some for his old
place at tackle, and others placed him at guard. The majority seemed to place him at guard as a running
mate for Harry, by whom he had played all season. It is remarkable to note that Tom was not mentioned
by any writer for an end position, where he won an all-state berth last year. As one writer put it
last year, "He’s too light for a regular lineman, but he’s just too darned good to be left off any
team!"

Jim Hendrix is the third Wildcat on the mythical eleven. Jim was handicapped this season, playing out of his regular
position. After the Elon game, he took Sappenfield’s place at quarter. But even under this burden, he played a brilliant
game and was on the pick of practically every writer.

Several other Davidson players were mentioned on the first teams of some of the sports writers. These were McConnell, Black,
Laird, Arrowood, and Pinckney. Practically the entire Davidson varsity was mentioned on some first or second all-state team.

Never walk in front of a lady—if she is driving a car. When you invite trouble it never sends regrets.
Night hawks are usually out for a lark—and a chicken or two.

Baker, Hendrix, and Vance Honored

TAKE YOUR CHOICE OF WRITERS’ PICKS ALL-STATE TEAMS

Sports Writers’ Composite
Ends — McMurray, Carolina; Riley, Wake Forest.
Tackles — Robinson, Carolina; Emmerson, Wake Forest.
Guards — Vance, Davidson; Baker, Davidson.
Center — Melver, Carolina.
Quarter — Rackley, Wake Forest.
Halfbacks — Underwood, Carolina; Hendrix, Davidson.
Fullback — Caldwell, Duke.

Eddie Brietz
Ends — McMurray, Carolina; Riley, Wake Forest.
Tackles — Baker, Carolina; Robinson, Davidson.
Guards — Vance, Davidson; Emmerson, Wake Forest.
Center — Melver, Carolina.
Quarter — Rackley, Wake Forest.
Halfbacks — Underwood, Carolina; Greason, Wake Forest.
Fullback — Caldwell, Duke.

Jake Wade
Ends — Riley, Wake Forest; Dodderer, Carolina.
Tackles — Robinson, Carolina; Emmerson, Wake Forest.
Guards — Vance, Davidson; Baker, Davidson.
Center — Melver, Carolina.
Quarter — Rackley, Wake Forest.
Halfbacks — Hendrix, Davidson; Underwood, Carolina.
Fullback — Caldwell, Duke.

Charlotte News
Ends — Arrowood, Davidson; McDowell, State.
Tackles — Emmerson, Wake Forest; Ellerbe, Wake Forest.
Guards — Melver, Carolina; Robinson, Carolina.
Center — McConnell, Davidson.
Quarter — Rackley, Wake Forest.
Halfbacks — Hendrix, Davidson; Underwood, Carolina.
Fullback — Caldwell, Duke.

News and Observer
Ends — McMurray, Carolina; Riley, Wake Forest.
Tackles — Robinson, Carolina; Grigg, Duke.
Guards — Vance, Davidson; Nicholson, State.
Center — Emmerson, Wake Forest.
Quarter — Rackley, Wake Forest.
Halfbacks — Underwood, Carolina; Hendrix, Davidson.
Fullback — Caldwell, Duke.

Winston-Salem Journal
Ends — Pinckney, Davidson; Riley, Wake Forest.
Tackles — Ellerbe, Carolina; Robinson, Wake Forest.
Guards — Vance, Davidson; Whisnant, Carolina.
Center — Emmerson, Wake Forest.
Quarter — Rackley, Wake Forest.
Halfbacks — Bonner, Carolina; Hendrix, Davidson.
Fullback — Caldwell, Duke.

Greensboro News
Ends — Dodderer, Carolina; Riley, Wake Forest.
Tackles — Emmerson, Wake Forest; Robinson, Carolina.
Guards — Vance, Davidson; Donnell, State.
Center — Melver, Carolina.
Quarter — Rackley, Wake Forest.
Halfbacks — Underwood, Carolina; Hendrix, Davidson.
Fullback — Caldwell, Duke.

All the brawn of all the workers of the world would fail to supply the power needed for our construction
and production requirements. Modern civilization is based on cheap power readily applied to tasks of all kinds. Machinery works: Man
thinks.

According to college tests, man develops one-eighth horsepower for short periods and one-twentieth in steady work. As a craftsman—a worker
who uses brains—he is well worth his daily wage. But as a common laborer, matching brawn against motorized power, he
is an expensive luxury.

In most long-established industries, the General Electric Company has brought about important changes making for better products with minimum human
labor and expense. And in many new industries, the G-E engineers have played a prominent part from the very beginning.
A new series of G-E advertisements showing what electricity is doing in many fields will be sent on request. Ask
for Booklet GEK-1.

With a fifty-horsepower motor, for instance, one man can do the work of 400 common laborers. He is paid far
more for his brains than his brawn. The great need of this and future generations is for men who can
plan and direct. There is ample motorized machinery for all requirements of production and construction. But motorized machinery, no matter
how ingenious, can never plan for itself. And that is precisely where the college man comes in. Highly trained brains
are needed more and more to think, plan, and direct tasks for the never-ending application of brawn-saving electricity.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK
