RUSH CAROLINA AV FOR A BETTER Vol. XIII R DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 12, 1925 ADS LEAD
TO CHAPEL HILL

Hampden-Sydney Tigers Special Train to Battle Wildcats to Tie in Charlotte Saturday Virginia Team Shows Powerful Drive in Second Half
LEGGETTE SCORES Atkins Throws Scare Into Davidson Ranks With Brilliant Work in Aerial Attack Take Students to Carolina Contest

The executive committee has granted permission to the student body to run a special train to Chapel Hill next Saturday,
provided the railroad company insures a return not later than midnight. All students going on the special will be excused
from classes for the day. Special excuses will also be granted to those who make the trip in auto or
by other means than the train. Classes will be held as usual, however, for those who remain on the hill.

Sweeping down Wearn field last Saturday for a 67-yard march to touchdown in the third quarter, Hampden-Sydney tied the Davidson
Wildcats in a game made thrilling by the work of the Tiger backfield. Doped to lose, the Virginia team was
unable to cope with the offense that Jim Hendrix led in the first half, but came back strong in the
last two periods. Atkins, injured as the game was closing, was easily the star of the game, his brilliant running
and catching of passes bringing the tying touchdown to the Tiger eleven and threatening the Davidson goal in the last
quarter.

After the two elevens had exchanged punts in the first quarter, Dick Grey caught the Tigers flat-footed on a punt
from midfield which Pinkney downed on the one yard line. Hampden-Sydney punted out but Grey raced the ball back 18
yards to the 32 yard line. End runs by Hendrix, and a 15-yard pass to Black, followed by Leggette’s skip
through the line brought the Davidson touchdown. Davidson drove the ball into scoring position twice in the second quarter but
field goals went wild in both cases. The drive of the Tigers started as Atkins broke loose for 20 yards.
Palmer, Edmunds and Brinser supported him ably as the Tigers marched through Davidson, Atkins finally going over the line. Tom
Baker stayed in the limelight as he smothered a perfect placement, thus tying the score. The Tigers were the first
eleven that have been able to sweep the Davidson ends, while Davidson could not cope with their passing to Atkins.
Dudley played great on the Tiger line while Vance tore up many of the Virginia plays.

(Continued on page 5)

ON TO CAROLINA College Journalists to Convene at Chapel Hill Tar Heel Staff Will Entertain Delegates to Seventh Semi-Annual Conclave

Beginning on Thursday, November 14th, and continuing through Friday and Saturday, the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will meet in
Chapel Hill for the seventh semi-annual meeting. The Association is composed of the college newspapers and magazines of the state.
The college annuals will be represented at this meeting for the first time. There is a move on foot to
include these publications in the Association, and no doubt some action will be taken upon this in the coming meeting.

The first meeting will be held on Thursday evening at 8 o’clock, at which time the Association will be addressed
by Lenoir Chambers of the Greensboro News. On Friday morning the meeting will be formally opened by an address from
the president, C. G. Moore, editor of the N. C. State Technician. The subject of Mr. Moore’s address will be
“Freedom of the College Press.” Following this, a general business meeting will be held and reports will be received from
the various publications. Among the varied features of the day will be a visit to the Journalism Class of Prof.
Gerald Johnson. Group discussions will be stressed at this meeting probably more than ever before. Time has been allotted for
these discussions on Friday afternoon and Saturday morning.

(Continued on page 6)

ON TO CAROLINA

The train is scheduled to leave Davidson at seven forty-five, and to reach Chapel Hill at one thirty. Breakfast will
be moved up to seven thirty to allow ample time for those who intend to go on the special. The
game will begin at two thirty, and present plans are to begin the return trip at seven o'clock. The management
of the athletic association has received notice from Carolina to sell student tickets for fifty cents each. The expenses of
the band will be paid by the athletic association, and will be admitted to the game merely on identification. The
tickets for the special will cost five dollars and thirty cents for a round trip. Special coaches have been chartered
by Charlotte, Winston, and Greensboro, and extras will probably be picked up at Burlington. It was stated that in case
the company was not given a guarantee of at least one hundred and twenty-five tickets from Davidson, the train would
run by way of Salisbury, which route. Although, at the time of the writing of this article there has been
no definite number who have signed up, there is no doubt in the minds of those who have charge of
(Continued on page 3)

ON TO CAROLINA

Honor Frat Takes In Upperclassmen

On October 27th four men were elected to membership in the Sigma Alpha Chapter of the Sigma Pi Sigma Fraternity.
These men were Albert Lyons and H. H. Roseberry from the senior class, George H. Zimmerman from the junior class,
and H. I. Fulcher, Assistant Professor of Physics. All of these men have demonstrated by their work an unusual aptitude
for physics and interest in science. Albert has proven his ability for mastering scientific subjects since he has been at
Davidson. He made one of the highest grades last year in physics, and this year is assistant in Applied Mathematics.
Lyons, from Rogersville, Tenn. H. H. Roseberry, from the distant city of Malvern, Ark., has accomplished much in various scientific
lines at Davidson. He divides his time about evenly between chemistry and physics, being a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon.
In physics he is especially interested in radio, and is the assistant in one of the higher courses. G. H.
Zimmerman of Romney, W. Va., holds the honor of having made the highest mark in physics last year of those
that are continuing the work. His interest lies particularly in electricity, and he is specializing in electrical engineering. This year
he is one of the assistants in sophomore physics. Prof. H. E. Fulcher came to Davidson this year from the
University of Virginia from which institution he received his master’s degree in physics. Prof. Fulcher has done considerable work in
experimental physics, especially in the determination of the value of the electronic charge. Sigma Pi Sigma is a national physics
fraternity founded at Davidson in 1921. It is the only national fraternity of pure physics in the United States today.
The active members of the local chapter are L. B. Huie, O. L. Brenner, F. C. Kugler, J. D. Young,
R. W. Graves, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Profs. W. W. Wood, J. L. Douglas, and W. N. Mebane.

Prominent Seniors For Scholastic Excellence Hollingsworth, Shaw, Ratchford and Regen Receive Coveted Bids FOUR MEN CHOSEN New Members to be
Initiated at Big Public Celebration on December Fourth

The Davidson Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa has recently elected four students from the Senior class, A. L. Shaw, Jr.,
B. U. Ratchford and E. Regen, into membership in the fraternity. The requirements for membership are primarily scholastic though promise
of future efficiency is taken into consideration. Only one eighth of the graduating class is eligible each year. From the
present Senior class eleven men are eligible including the four men already extended bids who have the highest averages in
the class, so far. Another election will be held during the spring. The initiation of these men will take place
on the 4th of December at 7:00 o'clock after which there will be a public celebration in Shearer Hall at
8:00 o'clock. A noted speaker will address the audience at the public celebration. His name will be announced later. A
number of alumni will also be initiated into the fraternity at this time. A complete list of these men is
not yet ready for publication but will be released within the next two weeks. The entire exercises both secret and
public will be followed by a banquet at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel in honor of the new initiates. Phi Beta
Kappa is the oldest fraternity in the United States having been founded at William and Mary’s College in Virginia, in
1776. It was first a social organization but is now honorary, and has 107 chapters in the leading colleges and
universities. Up to the convening of the Triennial Council of the fraternity in New York City on September the 8th
there were only 99 chapters, but duringthe convention the following institutions were granted charters: Agnes Scott College, University of S.C.,
College of Wooster, Wooster, Ohio, University of South Dakota, University of the South, University of Kentucky, Occidental College, Los Angeles,
Cal., and University of Idaho, making the total number 107. The representatives sent by the Davidson chapter to the meeting
of the Council were Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. T. L. Prot, W. Lingle, and W. Wood. A. H. Hollingsworth,
Jr., has, during his three years here, received many honors. He made the Honor Roll his Sophomore and Junior years,
and is a member of the following honorary fraternities and clubs: Omicron Delta Kappa, Alpha Phi Epsilon, International Relations Club,
and Philosophy Club. He has been an inter-collegiate debater, won the Junior Oratorical Medal, and the Fresh-Soph Debaters Medal, and
was president of the Pandenic Literary Society. He is at present the president of the Y. M. C. A., a
member of the Magazine staff, and a member of the Student Council.

H. L. Shaw, Jr., started out his Freshman year by winning the Alumni Medal for the highest average made by
any member of his class. He made the Honor Roll the same year and Junior year. He is now editor
in chief of the Annual, and a member of the “Y” Cabinet and the Student Council. He was formerly president
of the Junior class, an inter-collegiate debater, and a member of the Davidsonian staff. He holds membership in the following
honorary fraternities: Omicron Delta Kappa, Alpha Phi Epsilon, and Sigma Upsilon. B. U. Ratchford has also been on the Honor
Roll for two years besides being active in forensic work, and winner of a Davidsonian H. Hollingsworth, Jr. is now
purely Phi Beta Kappa Honors.

Tom Baker Chosen to Take Place of Nick Sappenfield

Thompson S. (Tom) Baker of Jacksonville, Florida, was elected President of the Student Body, Monday morning, to succeed N. E.
(Nick) Sappenfield, who recently resigned from that position on account of prolonged absence from school which was caused by the
injury he received in the first football game of the season. The others nominated for the position were Roland B.
Parker, James Appleby, and G. Flake Laird by the nominating committee, and J. W. Anderson from the floor. The first
ballot, which was held Saturday morning, resulted with Baker and Parker for the finals. “Tom” Baker is one of the
most popular men on the campus, has played Varsity football three years, being an all-state man last year. He was
on the freshman team his first year. He was elected president of the Athletic Association in the spring of last
year. Baker is a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity and of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

“Nick” Sappenfield had his leg broken in the first game of the season, and has spent several weeks in the
Charlotte Sanatorium. Knowing that it would be almost impossible to make up the work which he had missed, he decided
not to return this year, and sent in his resignation. He was another of the most popular men on the
campus, was also a Varsity football man for three years, and is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity.
He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. The office of the Student Body, the highest honor attainable in
the (Continued on page 5)

ON TO CAROLINA

Prof. Wachter to Aid Wildcat Fund

Prof. Carl Wachter will give a Rudyard Kipling recital some time in the near future in Shearer Hall, the recital
to be sponsored by the “D” Club and one-half of the proceeds to be donated to the construction of a
new cage for the “wildcat,” Davidson's mascot. Every upperclassman will remember Professor Wachter’s last recital and the approval with which
it was received by all. His interpretation of the several characters of Kipling is an education in itself and could
be heard many times without becoming tiresome. The poems and readings will be different from those given last year, but
this will not affect the humor and entertainment.

Coach “Monk” Younger has conferred with a contractor concerning the new cage for the “wildcat.” This cage will cost approximately
sixty or seventy dollars, and will be placed at some prominent place on the campus. There will also be made
a portable cage in which the “wildcat” will be placed and carried to the various games. The new cage will
be much larger than the old one, and will allow the animal much more freedom than he has enjoyed in
the past. A hollow stump will also be placed in the cage to protect the wildcat from the wintry winds
blowing through his lair.

Professor Wachter’s recital last year attracted favorable comment from all who were fortunate enough to be in his audience. His
qualities of portrayal are unusually excellent, and his familiarity with the products of the immortal pen of Kipling is surprising.
He toured the northern states for many years, previous to his coming to Davidson, and appeared in many large cities
where he won much praise for his Kipling recitals. The works of Kipling take on new life when rendered in
Professor Wachter’s own delightful manner. A definite date for the recital is to be (Continued on page 3)

ON TO CAROLINA

Davidson and Carolina Play Deciding Game on Emerson Grid Saturday

Comparative Scores Indicate Hectic Battle at Chapel Hill

IS FEATURE GAME

Result of Coming Game Will be Important Factor in Deciding State Championship

The Davidson Wildcats and the Carolina Tar Heels will meet Saturday afternoon on Emerson Field, at Chapel Hill, in the
annual gridiron clash between the two rivals. The game will be a great struggle between two valiant teams. As to
comparative scores, the Wildcats seem to have the edge, since they tied Wake Forest, who had defeated Carolina the week
preceding the Baptists’ clash with Davidson. But this was weeks ago, and the Tar Heels have developed wonderfully since that
time. The showing of Carolina against Maryland and V. M. I. indicate that the Chapel Hill men have a great
team, and one to be feared by any eleven in the South. This is only the second time the two
elevens have clashed on the home grounds of the Tar Heels, the first time being the year before last, when
the Wildcats lost to the tune of a 14-3 score. Last year, on their home grounds, the Presbyterians lost by
the margin of two field goals. In fact, Davidson has won only three games since the two teams began playing
back in 1891. Three of the sixteen games have resulted in ties, and the rest have been won by the
Tar Heels.

Thus far this season, Carolina has lost only one game, that being at the first of the season to Wake
Forest. This is really an unfair example as to the real ability of the team since this was before the
Fetzer brothers had really had time to mold their machine into shape. That they have improved greatly since this struggle
is clearly shown by the performance of the team in the last few games played. While the Tar Heels have
been improving, it seems that the Wildcats have remained about the same. (Continued on page 5)

ON TO CAROLINA

Local Professor Speaks at “Y” Vesper Services

Professor Kenneth Foreman Addresses Davidson Students on Subject of Warfare

Last Sunday evening at the regular Y. M. C. A. Vesper service in Shearer Hall, Professor Kenneth Foreman addressed a
large number of students on the subject of “War.” Professor Foreman showed marked ability in the way he handled his
subject, and delivered his address with such force and clearness that it was intensely interesting and enlightening. He stated at
the outset that he expected to raise more questions in the minds of his hearers than he would answer, “but,”
he said, “that is what the subject of ‘War’ always does.”

The population of the next war is composed of three classes of people, Professor Foreman stated in his opening remarks.
The first class is composed of those who think there isn't going to be another war. They think that the
world is getting better, and the day of horrible wars is over. Or they base their faith on the fact
that treaties are being made which will prevent war in the future, but, he brought out, treaties have not prevented
war in the past. If treaties could prevent war, they would have done it long ago. Then some in this
class think that powerful armaments are the necessary preventives for war. If armament could keep down war, it would have
prevented the Great War in 1914, for the armament of (Continued on page 8)

ON TO CAROLINA
