THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1925

JUNIORS BECOMING ENTHUSED
(Continued from page 1)

and every visitor will get a copy, as well as those on the campus. Fred Smith will be the editor and he will have a capable staff to assist him. The class wants to exceed even the excellent showing of the class of '24 in their “Cap and Bells,” which was one of the best publications ever seen around here.

The Raleigh Cafe
A Refined Dining Room for Particular
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte

Somebody wants to know if Finchley will show official Ku Klux Klan uniforms,

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Just Phone 24 Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU’LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service
Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

We Invite Your Business _ LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO
Crowded conditions at the gym made it necessary to run two movie shows instead of one, so as to accommodate all who wished to see the shows. The first show was run at seven and the other about eight-thirty or nine, right after the literary society meetings, which were held on Saturday night.

Dr. C. R. Harding has just undergone an operation for appendicitis at the Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte and was in serious condition. The Davidsonian had the following to say: “Although he has suffered a great deal in the past week, his condition seems to be improving.”

Just five years ago the R.O.T.C. Band was organized with something like twenty pieces. Up to that time there had never been a regularly organized band, if at all, at Davidson. A brilliant future was predicted for it.

A basketball trip through Virginia had to be cancelled on account of a mild epidemic of influenza. This did not last long, however, and several games were played later in the season.

The spring football training was then in the form of class football. A series was played for the class championship, each class entering to perfect its team and get ready for the series which was to be started in the near future.

The following appeared in an editorial, “Seven million words have been spoken in the Senate on the peace treaty and no good has been accomplished. Seventy times seven could be said about taking lights with the same success.”

SOPHOMORES PLAN GALA EVENT
(Continued from page 1)

should take place in Charlotte. The exact place in Charlotte could not be determined, but this too was placed to the decision of the committee who will have to investigate and find out the most advisable place to have it. Harlee Branch was selected as toastmaster. Branch is one of the best speakers in the class and is fitted for this job. The class this year has determined to put all they have into the banquet and all the banquet has into them. There is no doubt but that the whole class will be there as was suggested by the wholesale eagerness with which they decided upon Charlotte as the place to have it. The committee has not been appointed by the president yet to look after the arrangements, but this will be done immediately, according to President Covington, and all the details will be attended to. He states that nothing will be left undone to make the Sophomore banquet this year the biggest and best ever.

SOCIETIES TO ALTER OLD SYSTEM
(Continued from page 1)

given in the past by only one or two societies. Those who are selected to represent the college on inter-collegiate debating teams, with the exception of alternates, will be given debating emblems. The cost of all these awards will be borne by all the societies jointly. Further action taken by the Forensic Council has been to arrange for inter-collegiate Freshman debates. At a meeting of the Freshman class this morning, a member of the Council announced the subject, Resolved, That the North Carolina Legislature would be right in adopting the Port and Water Shipping Bill as proposed. Tryouts were announced for a near date at which time the Freshmen will have an opportunity to show their mettle for future inter-collegiate forensic frays. The Freshman class this year possesses an abundance of material which promises well under the direction of the Forensic Council.

STATE Y. M. C. A. WORKER
(Continued from page 1)

he saw a sight which resulted in his never arriving at his destination. As he walked along he noticed the moon rising over an old church spire. This caused him to think of God. Returning immediately to his London lodging, he went down on his knees and prayed to his God. Soon afterwards he went to Scotland and told his wife of their son’s death. But even when he was explaining the sad news he experienced a certain sense of joy since he found the Lord lending him strength.

Rapidly developing his points, Mr. Smith offered the following sketch for the purpose of showing the superiority of the Christian religion: “Christianity’s second great advantage over the religions of Buddha, Mohammed, and Zoroaster is its practical working plan. This is evident in comparing the peoples adopting the various forms of worship now existing in the world.

“In the third place Christianity creates in the hearts of its believers a desire to spread and propagate it. Recently I met a man who emphatically believed that the Eighteenth Amendment should be repealed if we are to have personal liberty. My answer to his argument was: ‘If the prohibition law should be repealed, don't you realize that the Christian people of the United States would never be satisfied and would quit fighting until the law were repassed?’

“The fourth argument in favor of Christianity is its power of regeneration. It is the only thing that changes a man’s life completely when he accepts it. A drunkard living in one of our large cities entered a saloon. He came out and a short time later his whole life was changed. He was converted to Christ. Besides all these things our religion offers us the hope of immortality. It is unique in this respect.

“Finally, this is the only religion that permits us to see Christ's healing of the broken life of the woman at the well, the restoration of the departed life to the widow's son, and numerous other instances reveal to us God's nature and show what He is really like.

“‘This all sounds good enough,’ you say, ‘but it won't work in my life.’ Let me cite an instance of the way it works in individual lives: “A sea captain decided one Sunday morning to conduct a service aboard his ship. He triedto explain the power of the Spirit in men’s lives but was interrupted by a big red-headed Irishman calling out, ‘What you're telling us about is fine, but it won't work in my life on the high seas.’ The captain replied, ‘If it won't work for you on the seas it won't work for me in New York. See me after the services.’ The Irishman met with the captain. The latter gave him two simple instructions: ‘Read your Bible and pray earnestly each day.’ Two years later the sea captain had the pleasure of hearing that the Irishman was truly converted and was then living a strong Christian life. “I ask you all—have you given Christianity a fair trial? It’s the only thing that will give you satisfaction.” Joe Garrison was leader and Tom Barr read the scripture lesson from John 14. As a special musical feature the K. K. K. sang a religious number.

STUDENT BODY ROLL IS REDUCED SINCE EXAMS

Since the Christmas holidays the ranks of the student body have been depleted by twenty withdrawals. Failure to pass the required amount of work was the trouble in most of these cases. As an offset to these losses, eight new men have registered. Of this number, five are former students of Davidson. The new men are: J. E. Fraley, D. C. Ewing, J. A. Joiner, J. A. Caligan, T. G. Coltrane, S. M. Wrenne, J. E. Love, and J. M. Williams. Registration for next year is further advanced at present than it was last year at this time. At the present rate the college will be signed up to capacity by the last of May.

STATESVILLE, ANNOUNCING

FORRESTER-PREVETTE CLOTHING CO.
Successors to Crowell Clothing Co.
Clothing, Haberdashers and Gents’ Furnishings

Student (to Skit in Drug Store): “You needn’t look at that check so hard; it'll be back in a few days and then you can look at it as long as you want to.”

R. O. T. C. News

Maj. Gen. Robert Lee Bullard retired from active service in the army on January 15th because of the age limit of sixty-four years set on active duty. This marks the passing of the last of the Big Four of the A. E. F., Generals Pershing, Liggett, and Dickinson having already retired. General Bullard has worn the uniform of Uncle Sam’s army for forty-four years, and commanded, during the World War, first a division, then a corps, and finally the Second Army.

Since 1868 THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES

GOOD SHOES STYLISH SHOES

Every Davidsonian wants to be well shod all the time. Good weather or bad, for stunts or classes, there’s no feeling quite so satisfactory as the feeling that “I look all right.”

Nowadays, much is heard of the “Ultra-scientists” who would have us believe that all future wars will be merely a matter of pressing an electric button to see thousands fall dead, or shooting a gas bomb to have a whole countryside devastated, even to the grass and insects—men who predict that there can be no further wars, because of far-fetched theories of “Necromancy, diabolical rays, vibrations of ether, etc.” Lt. Col. Weston Jenkins has the following to say in regard to them: “There is no mysterious weapon that can overcome the unquenched spirit of a determined people. Battles are won by hard fighting and intelligent leading. The brunt of the fighting that is now, has been in the past, or will be in the future, is done by the man on foot, and the most terrible weapon yet known to man is about five feet eight inches long, and weighs about one hundred and fifty pounds. It is called the American Doughboy.”

GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE

The Infantry Journal, realizing the army’s need of a “real he-man's song with a swing and a bang to it,” has put on a song contest, offering a prize of two hundred dollars to the composer of the accepted song. Those of us who can forget good old Camp McClellan days will also remember how the endless dust-covered road to the rifle range was sometimes made shorter by the rendering of some old “D. C.-L. S. U.” tune, or one spasm from “Yodelling Doc.” The reason and the reward given, the next thing is, “Ye who aspire to the fame of a Vachel Lindsay, provoke the muse, and win the prize.”

Captain (imposing penalty for non-observance of orders): “On account of this, none of you will get liberty next week-end.”
Voice in rear barracks: “Give me liberty or give me death.”
Captain (angrily): “Who said that?”
V. R. B.: “Patrick Henry.”

PRETTY GIRL MUSICIANS IN FINAL LYCEUM NUMBER

The final number of the lyceum course will be presented next Wednesday night, February 18th, in Shearer Hall. The attraction will be “The Chicago Entertainers,” a most attractive quartet of girl musicians. The time has been set for 8:00 o'clock and it is expected that this will not conflict with the prayer meeting service at the church since that service will probably close in time to allow one’s attending both. The lyceum course has been fostered by the Junior class this year and for the first time in many years the local management has made some little money on the enterprise. High class entertainment has been provided in the three former numbers and the Chicago entertainers should wind up the Davidson lyceum season in brilliant style.

INFIRMARY DOPE

The infirmary seems to have been one of the most popular places on the hill last week. Although it had many visitors, none of them were seriously ill. Those on the sick list were: W. D. Robertson, C. B. Smith, Charles Baskerville, B. McClaugherty, K. Woodham, F. L. Wyche, J. O. Foil, H. Boulware, S. Wall, W. A. Alexander, H. M. Austin, H. M. Wells, J. Farrel, and Julian Briggs.

H. B. GUNTER
Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.
LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.

CENTRAL HAT SHOP and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dyeing Dry Cleaning Pressing Shoe Shine In Connection
Largest Oldest Best
8 E. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE