THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 12, 1925

Have You a Little Cross-Worder In Your Home? If Not Take This Along

Chosen From Freshmen

FREEONES

Horizontal
1—Local deity of ancient Semitic races.
5—The papa sheep.
9—Deliberate (John Ward Spelling).
10—A character in “The Faerie Queene.”
12—"The Gate City of the South.”
14—Three sheets in the wind.
15—Appearance.
18—"In spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of——.”
20—“They let the holm bear them.” Beowulf.
21—“Let me not be ——, sweet Heaven!” King Lear.
22—"Please pass the chop-——.” Confucius.
24—"—— your speech a little lest you mar your fortune.” Bill Shake.
26—"Give me a lucifer to light my ——.” Sir Walter Raleigh.
28—"I'm —— bound!” Bowie.
32—A modern mystery play.
33—“He was raised in the — of luxury.”
34—The most attractive part of the chorus.
35—The tip.

Vertical
2—A good king in Bible history.
3—The octave above the treble clef.
4—To recline in an easy manner.
5—A person of small growth.
6—An insect.
7—The plaintive bovine.
8—Every woman used to be one.
11—"I looked up my family and found that I was the sap.”
13—Trouble.
16—Suffix meaning full of.
17—Tone of voice.
18—"If you don’t leave my girl alone, I'll —— you one.”
19—A type of poetry.
22—“Boy, I sure got ——!” Davidson student.
23—“I'll keep —— on it and send you a report.”
25—"As extinct as the —— bird.”
26———, carbohydrates, and protein.” Book.
27—“It will be a —— occasion.” Davidsonian.
28—A splitter of rails.
29—"Keep up, don’t —— behind.”
30—“Wipe that smile off your ugly ——!” Sergeant.
31—“Gentlemen, I did not spring from ——!" W.J. B.

LAST WEEK’S ANSWERS
Here they are for the puzzle appearing in the March 5th issue:
Horizontal
1—Marl, 2—Article, 5—Style, 8—Dido, 11—Reach, 13—Drear, 15—State, 16—Rub, 18—Dagon, 20—Nile, 21—Honey, 22—Done, 23—Ac, 24—Egg, 25—Is, 26—II, 29—St, 30—Leaner, 34—Allahs, 38—Davidsonian, 39—Shaped, 41—Eerily, 44—He, 45—Io, 46—Ea, 47—Act, 49—Ng, 50—Even, 53—Jehus, 54—Magi, 56—Tiber, 58—Fib, 59—Aiken, 60—Loess, 62—Aster, 63—Wynd, 64—Olein, 65—Esse.

Vertical
3—Real, 4—Late, 5—Sh, 6—Youngers, 7—Ed, 8—Dead, 9—Iago, 10—Dronish, 12—Ce, 14—Rd, 15—Snail, 16—Roe, 17—Beg, 19—Nests, 27—Pride, 28—Panes, 31—Ada, 32—Nap, 33—Eve, 35—Lie, 36—Lar, 37—Ani, 39—Sheet, 40—Heavily, 42—Lingers, 43—Yogin, 47—Aef, 48—Tub, 51—Ebon, 52—Need, 54—Mite, 55—Akes, 60—As, 61—So, 62—An.

Fresh Melton: Why is it that women learn to swim more quickly than the men?
Soph Williamson: Easy boy, easy. Who wants to teach a man to swim?

Seniors Lian To Aerial Magellans
About thirty members of the Senior class accepted the invitation of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce to attend the illustrated lecture of the “Round-the-World Fliers” at the Charlotte auditorium Friday evening.

Late that afternoon Major James, representative of the Chamber of Commerce, telephoned and asked that as many members of the Senior class as could to come over for the lecture, expenses to be paid by the Chamber of Commerce. Ben Beall carried the men down in his cars.

This is a part of the plan of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce to secure co-operation between Davidson College and Charlotte, and to obtain friendly relations. They plan to link the two more closely together.

Lieutenants Harding and Thomas, two of the fliers who recently completed the first flight around the world, gave an illustrated lecture on the trip. They told something of their experience and happenings during the flight. They had both stationary pictures and moving pictures of various phases of their flight which they used in connection with their lecture. The whole entertainment lasted about two hours, and all who were able to go, enjoyed it very much.

Had it not been for the Queens College Glee Club concert, for which many of the seniors had bought tickets, probably more would have accepted the invitation and gone down.

“Father Time is no gentleman.”
“How’s that?”
“He tells on women.” —C. C. N. Y. Mercury.

Two Debating Teams Are Debaters Selected for Two Fresh Debates from Twenty-five Contestants
In one of the warmest preliminaries of many years the Davidson representatives in the Freshman triangular debate with Wake Forest and Carolina were chosen on last Thursday night. From the twenty-two contestants, the following eight men were selected: Affirmative, Leo Pritchett, F. D. Daniel, and A. T. Dillard, with M. M. Lockhart, as alternate. Negatives: H. F. Peterson, H. T. Powell, J. P. McKnight, and F. W. Ebey as alternate.

The query for the debate was, Resolved, That North Carolina should ratify the port terminals and water transportation act. The Wilkitten forensic artists will defend the affirmative of this question against the strong Wake Forest Freshmen trio at Davidson, while they are at the same time trying to conquer the Tar Heel neophytes in Chapel Hill. Both encounters have been dated for April 6.

Last year the Wildkittens downed Carolina by a unanimous vote of the decision committee but fell before the Baptist orators by a 2-1 decision. The chances for a double victory by the Wildkittens appear to be favorable. The preliminaries, at which the two teams were chosen, revealed an unprecedented number of entrants—twenty-two; and also a strong array of unsuspected debating talent. Every speaker acquitted himself creditably and the winners are, without doubt, the most promising first-year men that Davidson has claimed in many years.

The keen interest and close competition being manifested by the freshmen in their first intercollegiate meet encourages the debating boosters to believe that a genuine renaissance of interest in the forensic arts is now browning. The public speaking department declares that if the new men continue their good work in debating, he sees no reason why they should not eclipse, before their graduation, the already enviable record of which the Wildcats may boast.

Freshmen who tried out in the preliminaries were: Leo Pritchett, Julian Lake, J. M. Murchison, W. T. Lingle, Jr., Harry Peterson, J. P. McKnight, M. M. Lockhart, Jr., H. T. Powell, Boyce Martin, P. J. Garrison, Jr., B. K. Couper, R. T. Miller, Daniel, C. G. Davidson, G. T. Palmer, D. H. Howard, R. A. Duke, R. A. Gleen, B. W. Dickson, D. A. Currie, Camper O'Neal, and Frank Ebey.

ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA (Continued from page 4)
Bud Peagler’s Barbecue Lunch Room and Billiard Parlor. Cleo and Antony are sitting at a table. Enter Florian dressed to kill.

FLORIAN. E’enin’, Brother Chew an’ Miss Jones. Wuz you-all goin’ to the dance tonight?
Slappey. My, but you is dressed up. Ah presumes you is goin’ to th’ dance too?
FLORIAN. A vis’tor.frum New Yawk, an’ we figgers on droppin’ by jus’ for the fun. I don’t gen'lly ’tend these big dances, for they really is so many common people there, you know.

CLEO. Me an’ Mr. Chew aims to win the grand prize, don’t we honey?

ANT. Most perzactly. Dancin’, next t’ you, is th’ fondes’ thing I is of. Mistuh Slappey, is you aimin’ t’ make ma’iage with that New Yawk gal?

FLORIAN. They aint no telling. She maids in one of th’ swellest hotels in New Yawk, an’ her daddy buttles fo’ John D. Rockefeller. She’s sho’ cultured. I ’spect I'd better mush on now. Good e’ening folks. (He goes out).

CLEO. Aint he th’ swellest gentleman?

ANT. He aint nothin’ but a low-down bowl of tripe. I craves to kick them floppy pants of his’n, with him inside.

CLEO. I don’ crave to have my friends prevaricated like that.

ANT. Let’s eat some ba’becued po’k. Bud is sho’ some swell cook. What’s that buzzin’? (He fans the air vigorously with his hat, and ducks his head). It’s a wasp—got in thu’ the winder. (The wasp lights on Cleo and stings her).

CLEO. Oh Lawsy, I’m bit! (She faints, falling into the waiting arms of the noble Antony. He fans her vigorously, then throws a glass of water in her face. She comes to).

CLEO. Sweet Daddy. This year Professor Watcher, head of the pub—

ANT. C'am yo'self, woman, with that sweet daddy stuff. I reckin I’d better not git mixed up with no woman who faints at a wasp. Rome, I heah you callin’. (He thrusts Cleo ungently into a nearby chair and beats a hasty exit).

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

At a mass meeting of the student body, the slogan "Hoover for President" was adopted. Much argument both pro and con preceded this action, the main discussion being carried on by members of the Polity Club, headed by Dr. Lingle. The chief attraction at the time was the coming Student Volunteer Conference which was held from Friday to Sunday. Seventy of the delegates were known to be members of the fairer sex, which gave the affair an added interest. We wonder that the number of Volunteers did not show a sudden increase.

Seven members of the Reporters’ Club were awarded the golden quill. These men were the first to receive this honor, it having been inaugurated only a short time before. The following appeared in the editorials: “All millionaires play golf. Join the golf club and qualify.”

During the week the Seniors and Juniors originated a long-needed custom by adopting a class ring. It was to be of 10-carat gold set with a ruby, D. C. being inscribed on one side and the class numeral on the other.

An article appeared in the Davidsonian of that date which gave a brief history of Miss Shaw’s life and work. It expressed the deep appreciation of her work here, in the name of the student body.

The following are two extracts from the Peanut Parcher: “We aren't architects but we want to make a suggestion for the new dormitory; build it different from Georgia and Rumple.”

“O, it’s fierce to be stuck on Tanglefoot
Like it’s fierce to be shot on classes;
The same thing’s true of tar or glue,
But it’s fine to be stuck on lasses.”

As usual, an article appeared condemning some phase of the R. O. T. C. department. This one had to do with the wearing of mixed uniforms. It condemned all those who indulged in this practice as slackers.

Lewis Schenck was elected president of the Y. M. C. A. for the coming year. The baseball team had just ended a rather mediocre season, having won exactly half of the games played. Schenck was high point man for the year with a total of 197 tallies to his credit.

It might be noted that the term “Welcome Volunteers” was used fifty-six times in the entire issue.

PROFESSOR WACHTER WILL RECITE FAVORITE VERSES

Many of Kipling’s Best Dialect Poems Will Be Given By Artist

Among the numbers which Professor Wachter will give in the Kipling program at Shearer Hall Friday evening, March 20, for the benefit of The Davidsonian are two poems in the English cockney dialect. One is the favorite "Gunga Din" in which an ex-British soldier tells the story of a water-carrier joined to the British troops in India. The other requires the impersonation of another former British soldier, who saw service in South Africa. It is called "Chant Pagan." There is grim humor running through its graphic description of his experiences as a trooper, contrasted with his present occupation—that of “mowing the lawns of the Squire.”

It is said that Professor Wachter is a master of cockney dialect and that his interpretations of the "Departmental Ditties" and "Barrack-Room Ballads" are unsurpassed. Who is Tomlinson? He’s the ghost of the man who lived on borrowed ideas, in character neither good nor bad, whom St. Peter refuses to admit to heaven and whom the Devil bars from hell. Hear Professor Wachter read the poem, which only Kipling could have written—one of the most dramatic, vivid, searchingly humorous poems in all literature. You will want to know what becomes of Tomlinson after his journey from star to star and his descent from sun to sun to the “row of naughty stars that rim the mouth of hell.” Just as the spirit grips him by the hair, so will the poem grip you.

"The Explorer" will tell of his adventures, hardships and sufferings in opening up an empire. This poem is one of Kipling’s finest. His unerring genius for catching the central thought and vividly portraying it in masterful phrases is nowhere better shown. "The Explorer" is a poem of unselfish heroism and typifies those whose sacrifices make progress possible.

Mr. Will Neal will sing a swinging musical version of "Mandalay" and a picturesque setting of "Fuzzy Wuzzy" recently composed by Oley Speaks. He will be accompanied by Mrs. Baker in her own delightful manner.

At the request of those who have heard him give it, Professor Wachter will include in his program Friday evening, March 20, one of John Masefield’s "Salt Water Ballads." The particular one referred to is "Cape Horn Gospel." In this poem an old “sea dog” recounts his adventures in rounding Cape Horn. It is said to be an extremely humorous characterization.