THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 14, 1925

ALUMNI NOTES

J. K. Foster, ’19, of Reynolda, N.C., stopped over for a short visit with Mr. Jackson last Monday morning, on
his way to Charlotte.

C. L. Grey, '92, of Hendersonville, N.C., and B. W. Romefelt, ’21, of the Wachovia Bank and Trust Co., Asheville,
N.C., together with Mrs. Romefelt, Mrs. Grey, and “Romeo” Pr., are visiting at the home of Dr. and Mrs. W.
R. Grey.

W. S. Shepherd, '23, of Winston-Salem, spent last weekend on the hill.

The students of Davidson were very glad to see an old schoolmate of theirs back on the hill last week,
“Bo” McMillan, who is attending the law school of the University of South Carolina.

R. H. Falls, ex-'26, spent Saturday and Sunday on the campus.

A. D. Cromerty, ’24, spent several days on the hill the past weekend.

R. W. Holmes, ’22, of Lexington, N.C.; G. L. Irwin, ex-'24, of Winston, and C. T. Overton, ex-'24, of Salisbury
were here for the past weekend.

F. J. Wright, ’22, from Winston also, came down for the weekend.

W. P. PARKER WRITES FROM KOREA

The following letter was received from Wm. P. Parker, ’11. He is a professor of mathematics at Union Christian College,
Pyengyang, Chosen, Korea.

Pyengyang, Korea, April 4, 1925.

Dear Davidson Boys:

Just after my rather frivolous (shall I say) letter of some three months ago, school began in earnest, and since
then I have had time to recover and get back to normal. Now a new vacation has passed, and with
it some things have been accomplished, and I am still able to say that all is well. Not that all
is ended yet, either, but we have ended one year of school—in March—and have begun another today.

To begin at the end of the year, I would say that we sent off eighteen fine young men this
year, about the finest we have ever had. Half of them took my Calculus course and did splendid work. The
whole lot were extra good students and made a truly excellent record while here. They have gone out now, some
to teach, some to study more, and some to enter the Theological Seminary after a year or so. They are
splendid characters, one and all, and will witness for Christ wherever they work, for all are Christian gentlemen. Indeed, we
do not feel that we have room for any except our own Christian constituency here in the college, and all
of our students are Christians. In the Academy, we have a few non-Christians, but for the most part, all of
our students are believers, as we have got room for others, and believe in training our own first. One boy,
the nineteenth member of the class, will not graduate till June, as he is behind with one term’s work. His
grades were good, but he dropped out of school one term, so we are graduating him in June.

Just after I wrote you last time, we had revival meetings again in the little chapel in which you are
interested. We had a packed house every night, and the people were thoroughly awakened to their need of a Saviour.
So many are so poor that they cannot even live with ordinary Korean necessities, that the work is hard in
that respect, but in our preaching from door to door we always meet with a cordial reception, and in only
one or two instances were we turned down. A number said they were too poor to believe; that they were
ashamed to come to church and never have anything to put in the collection, even, but we tried to show
these their greater need for that very reason, and the results were most excellent, humanly speaking, and we do believe.

FORMER DAVIDSONIAN EDITORS TO HOLD REUNION SOON

The year 1925 marks the tenth anniversary of the founding of the Davidsonian. To the class of 1915 goes the
credit for having first put into existence the “livest wire on the hill,” a small four-column four-page paper, each page
about two-thirds the size of the present page. But from this small beginning has grown the most complete, the most
interesting, and the most up-to-date college paper in the Carolinas. It is a wonderful and amazing story, the story of
the growth of the Davidsonian, and that story must parallel the list of editors of the paper through these few
years.

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
SODA : CIGARS : FOUNTAIN PENS
AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.
R. A. DUNN, President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00that God and His Spirit were working with us, for He certainly led in the meeting.
And they are very enthusiastic over the work. We shall not get an ideal building for this money, but we
simply have to do the best we can. It is certainly inspiring to have a part in this work at
the chapel. The work there and the work in my Sunday School class of foreign school children are the two
joys of my life. Not that it is not fine to work in the school and teach these young men,
but the most inspiring work and the work which seems to bring the greatest returns for effort spent is the
work in the church. And I often envy the evangelists who give the most of their time to such work
as this. Do not forget to pray for us at Su Syeng Lee, the little village along the river. Pray
for the poor. There are so many suffering ones there. In our visiting we found conditions very bad, and this
year was only a very mild one! Usually we have weather twenty below here; this year I don’t think it
ever got down to zero even. Remember all the work in your prayers. We hope for government recognition, and then
we shall be better off in some ways. We have never wavered in our purpose, and have kept the Bible
in our schools, even though it seemed for a time that we might have to close or let the Bible
go—and we would have chosen the closing of our schools rather than lose the Bible. But we have kept the
Bible. Just now, government regulations are a little hard to meet, but we hope for a recognition that will make
our graduates qualified teachers in the eyes of the government. We have just opened, as I said, and have a
good entering class, as large as usual, and we look forward to a good year. May God bless you in
your work there. We think of you and pray for you, and we are always glad to hear from you.
As ever, your fellow worker, Wm. P. Parker.

The Senior Christian Endeavor Society had a most enjoyable picnic supper in the church basement on Monday night.

To Order $29.50

"STYLES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN"

WE INVITE YOUR INSPECTION OF New Shades, New Weaves and New Patterns

WHOLESALE CUSTOM TAILORS "WHERE THE STYLES START FROM" FROM OUR SHOPS DIRECT TO YOU. SAVES THE MIDDLEMAN’S PROFITS

UR is passing through a hard time just now, this anniversary might be suitably celebrated, a movement is on foot
to have a meeting of these ten editors at Davidson sometime during commencement. The movement is being engineered by Mr.
J. C. Williams, '16, secretary of the Y. M. C. A. and if any of the old editors can find
it possible to return for this meeting they are asked to write him for further information.

PARTY FROM DAVIDSON VISITS BANNER ELK

Last Thursday Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood, Dr. and Mrs. E. D. Brown, and C. M. S. McIlwaine motored to
Banner Elk. They made the trip in Mrs. Frazer Hood's car which was driven by herself. Dr. Hood and Dr.
Brown are trustees of Lee’s-McRae Institute which is located there. The primary object of the trip was for Dr. Hood
and Dr. Brown to attend a meeting of the board of trustees. After the meeting of the board of trustees
Thursday evening, the party returned to Davidson, arriving here in time for supper Friday night.

Like many other schools, Lee’s-McRae has called upon Davidson to give her some of her leaders. Edgar Tufts, of '22,
is at the head of the institute and Tom Spence is pastor of the Presbyterian Church there.

STATE TITLE IN DOUBLES (Continued from page 1)

stop the steady and consistent drives of Whitaker. The summary of the matches:

Singles:
Burns, Duke, defeated Beall, Davidson, 6-3, 6-1.
Fuller, Carolina, defeated Powers, Wake Forest, 6-3, 6-1.
Price, Davidson, defeated Farriss, Duke, 6-2, 6-1.
Solomon, Carolina, defeated Mayer, Duke, 6-0, 6-3.
Kelly, Carolina, defeated Slate, Wake Forest, 5-1, 5-7, 6-3.
Whisnant, Duke, defeated McCutchen, Davidson, 3-6, 7-5, 6-4.

Second Round:
Whitaker, Carolina, defeated Price, Davidson, 5-7, 6-2, 6-4.
Solomon, Carolina, defeated Staley, Davidson, 6-1, 4-6, 6-3.
Burns, Duke, defeated Fuller, 6-4, 0-6, 6-3.
Whisnant, Duke, defeated Kelly, Carolina, 1-6, 7-5, 6-4.

Doubles:
Slate and Powers, Wake Forest, defeated Crouch and Iddings, Lenoir-Rhyne, 6-3, 6-2.
Slate and Powell, Wake Forest, defeated Taylor and Chang, State, 6-1, 9-7.
Price and McCutchen, Davidson, defeated Slate and Powers, Wake Forest, 6-1, 6-2.
Whitaker and Kelly, Carolina, defeated Swanger and Mayer, Duke, 7-5, 6-1.
Price and McCutchen, Davidson, defeated Whitaker and Kelly, Carolina, 3-6, 6-1, 6-1.
Burns and Whisnant, Duke, defeated Staley and Beall, Davidson, 6-3, 6-4.
Solomon and Fuller, Carolina, defeated Whisnant and Burns, Duke, 6-2, 5-7, 6-1.
Solomon and Fuller, Carolina, defeated Newton and Sawyer, Wake Forest, 6-1, 6-1.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING Charlotte, N. C.

The only person who does not need automobile insurance is the person who does not own a car.

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr. ('13) Independence Trust Company Insurance Department Charlotte, N. C.

Belk Bros. Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Are offering some exceptional values in College Men’s Suits with one and two pairs of Pants, made in this season’s
newest models and colors on sale at: $19.95, $25.00, $29.50, $35.00 and $39.50. Would pay you to come to Charlotte
and see them.
