THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 10, 1925

RENTALS
Masquerades, Costumes, Tuxedos, Full Dress, Decorations and Party Favors
Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
515 E. Trade

FIREWORKS
We have a full shipment of firecrackers, roman cannons, etc.
STOP BY AND GET YOURS AT
W. A. Frye & Son Filling Station
Statesville Road just out of Charlotte

HOLIDAY GREETINGS
Send for one of our Greeting Card Assortments
12 or 15 Cards for $1.00
12 or 15 Cards for 50c.
Printing and Engraving
COMMERCIAL
419 East Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Shoes ready for your inspection
SHERRILL-WHITE SHOE COMPANY
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Exclusive agents for Bostonian
Those new fall styles

Exchanges
Investigations at Northwestern University revealed that cigarette smoking among co-eds is mainly a poise. The investigation disclosed the fact that not one in fifty know how to smoke and not one in twenty-five enjoy it.

Silk stockings for freshman girls have been banned on the West Virginia University campus by the Student Council. The council has changed the style of hosiery for the first-year girls to plain black cotton. Freshman boys likewise adopted black cotton hose in compliance with the freshman code.

The women of the University of Oregon wear big yellow chrysanthemums and carry lemon-yellow and green balloons at their Homecoming football game.

For the first time in twenty years, a woman has been registered in the civil engineering department of the University of Texas.

Two students at Boston College with names exactly alike have wrought such havoc in the university records that the registrar has taken the liberty to give them middle names. Each had been christened Harold Cohen.

Defying the high price of railroad transportation, a law student at Stanford University picked up a hearse at a bargain and took seven of his friends to their homes in Los Angeles to spend the holidays.

“Too little sleep, too much play, not enough study, too much leisure, fast eating and diversified thinking are factors that devitalize students and are responsible for the delinquent groups in every university,” is the conclusion reached by Professor Howard of Northwestern University.

An employment bureau has been established by the Students’ Council at McGill University, by means of which employers and students work may be brought together.

Twenty thousand dollars will be spent at the University of Florida to buy showcases for specimens for the museum.

The freshmen at Ohio State University began to grow careless about wearing their green caps. An organization called “The Bucket and Dipper” dumped several of the unfortunate violators in the campus lake.

The students of the University of California must use their silverware for something else besides eating because every year the University has to bring in a new supply.

Kansas University has the honor of having had the first woman cheerleader.

Eight thousand grads visited the campus of the University of Washington on Homecoming Day last Saturday.

The statement of President Lowell of Harvard University to the effect that undergraduate students are mental sluggards caused the “Princeton University” to take issue with the noted college head.

Temple University has abolished all examinations because the Psychology department there says they are antiquated and inaccurate.

Twenty-five students of Iowa Wesleyan University have decided to cease shaving until the football team of that institution wins a game.

Blood transfusions are given by 150 students of the University of Michigan to help pay their way through college. They are called from classroom, theater, or sleep as the emergency requires.

“The Hatchet,” official publication of the student body of George Washington University, is the largest of any college weekly publication in the United States, with a circulation of 5,000 copies.

According to reports of the post office of Columbus, Ohio, two and one-half tons of mail are received each week by the students of Ohio University.

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Insurance Department.
INSURANCE
McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13)
Independence Trust Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Christmas Holidays
Yes, there are only 12 more days

---THE---
MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
Wishes every one of “Felix’s Supporters” a most enjoyable holiday vacation, and desires to offer a cordial invitation to every one of “Felix’s” feeders to come in and “board” during the new term. Special attention given to feeds and banquets.
H. L. SHAW

---SEE OUR MANAGERS---
E. K. REGEN
H. D. BURKE

A special feature of the program was the I. R. C. WIRES COOLIDGE
The following telegram was sent Monday night by the International Relations Club to President Coolidge as a result of the poll taken of the Student Body Monday morning. A copy was also sent to Senators Overman and Simmons. The telegram follows:

“President Calvin Coolidge,
Washington, D. C.:
International Relations Club polled student body of Davidson College on subject of America’s entry into the World Court. Overwhelming in favor of entry. Enthusiasm among students high. Much thought on question. Please use your influence for Court.
(Signed) International Relations Club.
Davidson College.”Pandemic

The Pandemic Society held its regular meeting Thursday evening at 7:00 o'clock, after an interval of two weeks, since their regular time of meeting fell on Thanksgiving afternoon. The house was called to order by president Glen Eddington, followed by the roll call to which the number that answered was comparatively few, probably due to the fact that the Junior-Senior basketball game came off at the same hour. A very impressive meeting was carried out. The debate on the subject, “Resolved: That the income tax publicity law should be repealed.” The affirmative side of the query was upheld by J. M. Garrison and J. S. Gray and the negative side by R. H. McIlwain and E. J. Spear. The decision was rendered in favor of the affirmative. The debate was followed by some very interesting current events given by N. B. Rice. P. J. Garrison concluded the program with a very good declamation, and on the motion of W. J. Webb seconded by T. E. Hall the society adjourned to meet again next Thursday at the usual hour.

Philanthropic

The Philanthropic Society held its weekly meeting last Thursday night with a very good number present. The subject for the evening was “Resolved: The Income Tax Publicity Clause Should Be Repealed.” The affirmative side was upheld by A. W. Baker, R. F. Hall, and W. C. Archie; the negative by H. Y. Alexander, R. G. Calhoun, and S. W. DuBose. The decision was given in favor of the negative. In view of the fact that all the questions brought up for debate have so many good and bad points, three men on each side were used. The debate was handled in a very able manner, showing that plenty of study had been put on the subject. After the main debate, an extemporaneous debate was held on the subject, “The Pen is Mightier Than the Sword.” M. A. Morrison took the affirmative and W. A. Brown the negative. Mr. Brown won. The Society has had some very good programs this year, and all the members are working hard to keep it that way.

GLEE CLUB SINGS

(Continued from page 1)

Connection and other mishaps only seemed to add to the hilarious enjoyment of the performance. A delightful reception in the main building, with the Queens girls playing hostesses, completed the evening’s entertainment.

Davidson Supplies Radio Company With Program

Orchestra and Quartet Present Excellent Program at Charlotte Station Saturday Night

On last Friday night, December 4, the Jazz Orchestra and Quartet of the Davidson College Glee Club broadcasted from station WBT, in Charlotte, through the courtesy of the Interstate Radio Corporation. The program consisted of popular selections rendered alternately by the orchestra and quartet for an hour and a half. One of the popular numbers was a saxophone solo rendition of “Dear One,” by B. T. Crayton, leader of the orchestra. Some of the selections sung by the quartet were: “Freshie,” “Honey,” a medley, “Knee Deep In Daisies,” “Dear One,” and “Mary Anne.” To conclude the program the quartet rendered three selections the last of which was “O! Davidson.” The orchestra is composed of the following: B. T. Crayton, M. C. Davis, R. B. McConnell, J. G. Johnson, W. O. Geer, C. R. Poole, C. J. Albright, J. S. McRae, R. B. Walters, and W. J. Wilson. M. M. Lockhart, D. G. Wilson, J. S. Foster and D. M. Calhoun made up the quartet. During the program many requests and congratulations were received by telegraph and telephone from all parts of the South.

VOLUNTEERS MEET

The Student Volunteer Band met as usual last Sunday morning at ten o'clock in Shearer Hall. The meeting was conducted by L. B. Gibbs of the class of ’25 who was commonly known as Soc during his stay here. After the preliminary worship Soc gave a very helpful and interesting talk on Prayer, stressing especially the methods, motives and results of prayer. He illustrated his talk with incidents taken from life and from the Bible. After the talk the meeting was closed with prayer. Soc was the president of the Volunteer Band last year and he is now attending the Columbia Theological Seminary at Columbia, S. C., preparing himself for the ministry.

WILDCATS

Have those old shoes rebuilt. Service is our watchword.

E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP

Representatives STEVE WALL and J. D. LAW

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant 17 S. Tryon St. The Best Places to Eat CHARLOTTE

When in Mooresville Mack & Thall for your High Grade Candy Cigarettes and Fruit

YOUR APPEARANCE

Is very important, in fact it is absolutely necessary to appear at your best at all times. LET US ASSIST YOU.

AL BARBER SHOP Statesville, N. C. P. C. McILWAINE, Mgr.

QUALITY SERVICE

The Premiere Cleaner and Presser OUR WORK GUARANTEED TO PLEASE

CITY PRESSING CLUB Davidson, N. C.

WHEN YOU FURNISH YOUR FRATERNITY HOUSE, SEE WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO. LATEST COLUMBIA RECORDS MOORESVILLE, N. C.