6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1925

English Student Life Will Be Described in Lecture Monday Night

Dr. Harding and Mac Richards Will Speak in Shearer Hall

The 1925-26 lecture program will begin next Monday night with two of the most interesting speakers in or around this part of the country, Dr. C. R. Harding and Mr. J. McDowell Richards. Mr. Richards will have as his subject, “Life at Oxford.” Mr. Richards has just completed two years’ work at Oxford University, in England. He was a Rhodes Scholar at this institution, being chosen on account of his excellent work here at Davidson College, where he was graduated with the class of 1922. One of the most outstanding men in his class, he had this great honor conferred upon him. Mr. Richards is the son of Dr. C. M. Richards, now pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Davidson.

The other speaker of the evening will be Dr. C. R. Harding, professor of Greek at Davidson. Dr. Harding will tell of his extensive travels in Europe this summer, where he spent the entire three months, visiting many places of historic interest. This will prove interesting to all of the students as well as to the special students of Greek and Ancient History. These two lectures will be given Monday, September 21, at 7:30 p.m.

Through the help of Mr. J.P. Williams, formerly “Y” secretary at Davidson, and now connected with the School of Business Administration of New York University, Mr. Cameron Beck has been secured to lecture Monday night, October 5. Mr. Beck is personal director of the New York Stock Exchange, and is scheduled to lecture in Asheville on October 7. Mr. Beck is a keen-minded and prosperous businessman and should be heard with great interest.

John Cowper Powys, celebrated English novelist, poet, and essayist, will lecture on the following Monday night, October 12, at 7:30 p.m. Mr. Powys will confine his lecture to “The Ten Best Books.” This should undoubtedly prove to be a literary gem as Mr. Powys is one of the most renowned authors ever to address a Davidson audience. The committee on lectures is to be congratulated on securing such a man of his type to speak here.

All these lectures will be free of charge and will be given in the auditorium of Shearer Hall. Everyone is cordially invited to hear all of these fine lectures. Dr. Shewmake, chairman of the faculty committee on lectures, announces that lectures of this type and men of this caliber will be secured to address the Davidson audiences throughout the year.

Wildcat Football Squad Faces Strenuous Season

More Than a Half of Games Will be Played on Richardson Field

On Saturday evening, September 19, the North Carolina football schedule will be officially opened by the Davidson-Elon game on Richardson Field. As a starter off for their 1925 season, the Wildcats could find no worthier foe than the Elon Christians. Closely following the Elonites will come a game with Wofford, in Davidson, and then one with Wake Forest, in Charlotte. There is no need to enumerate the seeds of that scrappy little team from Wofford, enough is said when the score of ’24 is read, Davidson 7, Wofford 0. As for the football class of the season, this will be seen in the Queen City when our men meet the North Carolina 24 champions, Wake Forest.

Guilford at Davidson, and P. C. at Rock Hill, S. C., brings the Wildcats to the halfway mark of their schedule. After this date, October 17, the Wildcats will start on the latter and more difficult part of their calendar. Furman University on October 24, place undecided, and N. C. State on Davidson soil the following Saturday, will complete a busy fortnight. No doubt all upperclassmen will remember that frantic hour spent at the station last fall when finally the news came trickling over the wires that the Wildcats had held the heavy State team to a 10-10 score.

An old rival, who has been missing on the Davidson card for several seasons, reappears this season in the form of the Hampden-Sydney Tigers. This clash falls on November 14th, but the site has yet to be decided on. The two contests that close the season are to test the mettle of the Wildcats to the utmost.

100% SANITARY METHODS

Are followed in this shop---courtesy, quick service and prices that are fair

DEAL’S BARBER SHOP
Mooresville, N. C.

WHEN IN MOORESVILLE MAKE GOODMAN'S YOUR HEADQUARTERS

Davidson Graduate Is Winner of Prize For Best Essay in South

Archie Ray Wins for Best Essay on Interracial Co-operation

A. C. Ray, of Pittsboro, N. C., former student in Davidson College, has been awarded one of the prizes offered by the Commission on Interracial Co-operation for the three best papers on race relations submitted in a contest open to the students of all Southern colleges. The essay was delivered as an oration at Davidson. The other prize winners were Miss Dorothy Fahs, of a paper on “The Southern White College and Interracial Co-operation,” and Mr. J. H. Burkitt, of the University of Georgia, who wrote on “Race Relations in the South.”

There were 50 entries in the contest, representing more than 30 of the leading institutions in 12 states. Various phases of race relations were treated, among them education, economic status, Negro achievement, the Negro church, interracial co-operation, and the lynching evil. College periodicals published the winning essays.

Officials of the Interracial Commission express themselves as greatly pleased with the results and are planning to conduct a similar contest this year, full announcements of which are promised in a few days.

ROBINSON’S CIRCUS COMING TO CHARLOTTE

The earth’s oldest circus, John Robinson’swill soon be in our midst, as the billboards throughout the country proclaim Charlotte for afternoon and night performances on Monday, September 28th. Hundreds of circus lovers of this community are making plans to attend the circus that day, as the merit and superiority of John Robinson’s Circus is well known here.

“The Clash of Color” was the subject of Mr. Ray's paper, which was delivered to the entire audience fortunate enough to hear it. Randolph Macon Woman's College, Va., with the South's Race Problem, and C. B. Coltrane, distributed three intercollegiate debaters to the college, D. B. Wharton, L. D. Wharton, and R. B. Parker. Two of these men are returning this year and there are several other good men who have not yet made a place on the debating team. All the papers submitted were of a high order and many had been delivered as orations or published in loud and lurid colors, its coming to John Robinson comes this year with an entirely new performance from the opening of the gorgeous spectacle, “Peter Pan in Animal Land” to the sensational and thrilling finishing numbers. Europe and the Orient were sacked for novelties and features by representatives of the circus last winter, and the foremost wild animal acts of the universe were purchased and added to Robinson's double menagerie. As for clowns, fifty of the funniest and most foolish fellows ever turned loose will cavort in the sawdust arena.

Metrophilian Literary Society
The Metrophilian Literary Society will hold its first meeting Tuesday evening at 7:15. An interesting beginning is planned for the first meeting although no definite program has been arranged. A canvass of each dormitory has been made giving a cordial invitation to all freshmen with the hope that a great number will respond and be present at the meeting Tuesday night.

A week from Tuesday night will be initiation night at the society, at which time the incoming freshmen will become full members of the society. It is believed by the society that at least 25 men will be present. A feed is also planned for that night. Besides winning several other great honors last year the Metrophilian contributed three intercollegiate debaters to the college, D. B. Wharton, L. D. Wharton, and R. B. Parker. Two of these men are returning this year and there are several other good men who have not yet made a place on the debating team. The officers for the society for this year are as follows: Roland Parker, president; Don Wharton, vice-president; Boyce Martin, secretary; Sonny Pullen, critic; Bill Covington, second critic; Don.

Eumanean
The first meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society was held last Friday night, for the express purpose of discussing plans for securing the interest of freshmen. Thursday night was decided to be the initiation night. There was no meeting planned but a feed will be given. At the Friday night meeting R. A. Miller was elected as secretary in place of R. A. Duke who failed to return this year. The following are the other officers for the year: Tom Barr, president; Gordon McCutcheon, vice-president; W. Z. Lynch, treasurer.

Philanthropic
A new movement for attaining the interest of the freshmen was begun by this literary society this summer, a few weeks before the opening of school, letters were sent to all the freshmen by the Phi president, Ben Ratchford, urging them to take an interest in all the literary society work on the hill and particularly the Phi society. Results are already apparent for many freshmen have given in their names as desiring to become members of the Phi society.

Pandemic
The first meeting will consist only of a small program, the feed, and the initiation of the new men. The officers for this year are B. U. Ratchford, president; C. J. Davis, vice-president; M. A. Morrison, secretary; D. M. Calhoun, treasurer; J. C. Barrington, first critic; B. W. Dickson, first supervisor; Ralph Glenn, second supervisor.

CALENDAR
THURSDAY, SEPT. 17—
7:15 p.m.—Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies.

FRIDAY, SEPT. 18—
7:00 p.m.—Fresh Pep Meeting and Parade.

SATURDAY, SEPT. 19—
3:00 p.m.—Davidson vs. Elon, Richardson Field.
8:00 p.m.—Moving Pictures.

SUNDAY, SEPT. 20—
11:15 a.m.—C. E. Training Class.
2:30 p.m.—Ministerial Band.
6:15 p.m.—Vespers, Dr. A. S. Johnson, from Charlotte, speaker.

MONDAY, SEPT. 21—
7:00 p.m.—Court of Control Meeting, Lecture in Shearer Hall.

TUESDAY, SEPT. 22—
7:15 p.m.—Metrophilian and Pandemic Literary Societies.

Quite a number of the Davidson faculty traveled extensively during the past summer. A number of the town-folk felt the urge of the wanderlust so that the population of the community was at a low ebb for practically the entire summer.

FOR A GOOD JOB SEE US
E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP
Davidson, N. C.

Hand-Made Cravats
Made of pure silk Repp in bright, colorful stripes, characteristic of the collegiate’s taste. They wear well and hold their shape. $1.50 See Red McComb at 312 West---he has ’em.
MELLON’S

Clerk—“Yes sir; a lady’s belt. What waist measure?”
Bohannon—“Oh, about as long as my left arm.”

NONE TOO SMALL
NONE TOO LARGE

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
J. B. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier and Trust Officer

Our co-eds say: “An ambition is a good thing to have but you can’t run your fingers through his hair.”

To the fullest extent, the University of North Carolina will be played at Chapel Hill on November 14 and the ancient rivals of Davidson, in the form of Duke University, will furnish meat for the famished Wildcats on Turkey Day.

The varsity schedule is as follows:
Sept. 19—Elon College at Davidson.
Sept. 26—Wofford College at Davidson.
Oct. 3—Wake Forest at Charlotte.
Oct. 10—Guilford at Davidson.
Oct. 17—P. C. at Rock Hill, S. C.
Oct. 24—Furman University (undecided).
Oct. 31—N. C. State at Davidson.
Nov. 7—Hampden-Sidney (undecided).
Nov. 14—Univ. of N. C. at Chapel Hill.
Nov. 26—Duke University at Davidson.

GET IT AT
MILLER DRUG COMPANY
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
WHERE ALL THE YOUNG PEOPLE MEET