THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1925

ALUMNI NOTES

’73—Dr. R. P. Smith, first president of Presbyterian College at Clinton, S. C., now superintendent of home missions in the Asheville Presbytery, was here visiting his brother during the holidays.

’18—A. Pierce Saunders, former president of the student body, was here Christmas visiting his aunt, Mrs. Robson. He is now coach and teacher at the famous Tome School in Fort Deposit, Maryland.

’19—Charles Robson, who is now teaching at Darlington School, Rome, Ga., was here during the holidays.

’21—Joe Walker, now a student at Union Theological Seminary, visited here during the holidays.

’21—Lewis B. Schenck, former president of the “Y” and a graduate of Union Seminary, is now located at Huntington, W. Va., as assistant to Dr. Mauze of the First Presbyterian Church.

’23—W. J. Martin, Jr., medical student at the University of North Carolina, was at home for the Christmas holidays.

’23—Arnett Gamble, who is now at Union Theological Seminary, has written that his mother died at Macon, Ga., on December 29, after a long illness.

Rev. J. K. Fleming, class of 1919, was removed in December from Acme, N. C., to Gilbert, W. Va.

D. W. Lane, ex-'17, has moved from Jacksonville to St. Augustine, Fla.

Rev. Coyte Hunter has moved from Willow Springs to Whitaker Road, Raleigh, N. C.

Rev. John Williams Stokes, of Jackson, Ga., died on December 4. He was a graduate of Davidson and Union Theological Seminary, graduating there in 1898. He had been in ill health for several months. He was widely known in the work of his Synod and was greatly honored and revered. The funeral service was held at the Presbyterian Church at Lithonia, on December 7.

Dr. Richmond T. Gillespie, pastor of the First Church, Louisville, Ky., has accepted a position at the Theological Seminary at Columbia, S. C.

’02—Rev. R. L. Wharton, after a brief visit with his family in Charlotte, returned to Cardenos, Cuba. He is at the head of the educational department of both the Northern and Southern Presbyterian Churches on the Island of Cuba.

’95—Dr. Edgar Dawson, Ph.D., at Leipzig, Germany, attended the meeting of the American Historical Association held this past Christmas in Richmond, Va. He is now a professor in Hunter College, New York.

’96—J. G. Varner is now president of Texas Presbyterian College located at Milford, Tex., and a trustee of Austin College.

’04—J. M. Farr is now vice-president of the University of Florida and head of the department of English.

’07—Z. N. Holler returned to his home in Sanford, Fla., after visiting friends and relatives in Davidson during the holidays.

’14—The American Historical Association attended the Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church, Richmond, in a body where they heard a sacred concert and a sermon by Rev. C. L. King.

’14—Rev. D. T. Caldwell, for the past few years pastor of the Emmanuel Presbyterian Church, Wilmington, N. C., has accepted a call from the Second Presbyterian Church, Petersburg, Va., and he takes up his work immediately.

’10—Robert C. Garth, after visiting friends in Davidson and Charlotte, returned to Columbia University where he is a graduate student and laboratory assistant.

’23—Hugh Smith returned to Johns Hopkins University where he is taking his second year in medicine.

’24—A. M. Hillhouse and C. L. Hodgin paid their friends in Davidson a visit before returning to take up their work at Greenbrier Military School, Louisburg, W. Va.

’18—H. T. Lily, professor

---

Yellow Cabs - Are Good Cabs
Just Phone 24. Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU’LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE” CHARLOTTE

(COURTESY OF FASHION PARK)
For the average party the average man requires two rather important items---an invitation and a Tuxedo. We can supply the latter at a moment's notice, and you are invited to see it whenever you feel the urge. Evening clothes from the Fashion Park designing rooms meet all the social and quality requirements.
WE RENT TUXEDOS AND FULL DRESS SUITSin Presbyterian College of South Carolina spent a few days on the hill during Christmas.

'24—W. Z. Bradford visited the college before going back to the University of Pennsylvania, where he is studying medicine.

Weddings
Emmie Dunlap Robertson, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Robertson, was married to Mr. John Theodore Ballenger, '15, on Wednesday, December 31, at the First Baptist Church at Clinton, S. C.

Miss Pauline Rogers was married to Mr. Francis Cecil Thames, ’23, on Tuesday, the thirteenth of December, at her home at Blenheim, S. C.

Births
Dr. and Mrs. E. H. Linfield, the former of the class of 1918, announce the arrival of a daughter, Ann Burwell, on the 24th of December.

Leonard L. Wilson, of the class of 1919, writes that he was in the graduating class at Tulane last year, took the examination for the medical corps of the Navy, and is taking a year of internship at the Naval Hospital at Norfolk, Va.

Deaths
The students and alumni of Davidson are extremely grieved in hearing that Arnett Gamble’s ('23) mother died at their home in Macon, Ga., on December 29, 1924; and T. C. Moomaw’s (ex-’25) mother passed away in Roanoke, Va., just before Christmas following a very brief illness. To both of these men, every Davidson man extends his heartfelt sympathy for their great loss.

Town News
Mrs. T. W. Lingle has gone to St. Petersburg, Fla., with her sister and nephew, Mrs. Thompkins and young son.

Miss Sara Lingle has returned to Columbia University where she is a graduate student in French, working toward her Master’s Degree.

Mrs. John Hill, who has been very ill with pneumonia for three weeks, is recovering slowly. Her daughter, Miss Ruth Hill, is with her.

Prof. John T. Douglas, who has been ill for some days, is better.

Miss Clara Smith, who has been quite sick, is much improved.

The Misses Schofield have returned from their holiday trip to Chester and Union, S. C.

Mr. and Mrs. Deal, and Miss Newtie Deal have all been ill during the Christmas holidays.

Mrs. Houston Brown suffered a heart attack and was forced to summon her daughter, Miss Jessamine Brown, who is a trained nurse in Florida.

Master Richard and Miss Mary Jane Daugherty gave a tea-party last Monday afternoon.

Miss Adele Arbuckle gave a watch-party on New Year's Eve.

Prof. W. L. Porter is recovering from an operation.

Miss Adelaide Williams spent the holidays with her brother and sister, Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Williams.

Prof. Foreman’s mother has been ill for several days.

The Thelemite Club met with Mrs. Moore McConnell last Thursday. The following ladies read papers: Mrs. J. P. Williams, on Art and Letters; Mrs. W. L. Porter, on Home and Foreign Affairs; Mrs. R. D. Daugherty, on Religion and Social Service; Mrs. F. K. Fleagle on Science and Invention.

Billy Sunday, the noted Evangelist, was a speaker at chapel recently and his talk was greatly appreciated by the entire student body.—"The Vanderbilt Hustler.”

Princeton University admitted 634 students out of about 1,200 who applied for Freshman enrollment this year.

Since 1868
THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES

GREETINGS--- 28ers!
Ask any upperclassman where he gets the best and most stylish shoes—for ANY occasion, and he'll tell you “GILMER-MOORE’S” in Charlotte. For sports wear, class wear, formal wear—they’re all to be found here NOW!

GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE
SHOES LUGGAGE

Need Money?
WE have a plan whereby college men can realize an income while going to school and at the same time secure professional training which may be used later in establishing a professionally-owned and profitable business. A University of North Carolina man qualified for our $100,000 club last year. You, too, can make money as our representative while in college.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
H. B. GUNTER
Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.

CENTRAL and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dyeing
Dry Cleaning
Pressing
Shoe Shine In Connection
Largest Oldest Best
8 E. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE HAT SHOP