4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1925

The Davidsonian | Collegiate Press

Member of North Carolina Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH........ Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE.................. Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON..................... Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. JONES.......................... Assistant Managing Editor
W. M. LENTON...................... Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER....................... Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH........... Associate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN............... Humorous Editor
J. B. BELL............................ Alumni Editor
F. K. GAMBLE....................... Exchange Editor

Business Staff
H. D. BURKE......................... Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH......................... Assistant Business Manager
V. S. BROYLES....................... Assistant Business Manager
J. M. EDDINGTON.................. Circulation Manager
F. HOLLINGSWORTH.............. Subscription Manager
V. S. BROYLES....................... Assistant Service Department

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres.
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr.
R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON
P. McKNIGHT
H. M. AUSTIN
E. MOORE
F. K. BELL
K. REGEN
C. L. BRAGAW
H. L. SHELBY
D. M. CALHOUN
B. THOMPSON
W. T. COVINGTON
B. WEBB
W. T. VIS
G. WHARTON
E. L. DOUGLASS
F. L. FRANKLIN
C. WITHERS
W. S. GORDON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

FRANK HUDSON

Grim Death, the leveller of all beings, has once more invaded our midst. Like the ominous shadow of an approaching
storm, the news of the tragic affair reached the campus Saturday morning, and all those who knew and loved Frank
Hudson, mourned. His death was caused by the overturning of a car in which he and four other Davidson students
were traveling to the Carolina game.

It is not for us to say that his was a sad death. That should be left to a higher
tribunal. We know only that one whom we have loved has gone and his place can never be filled. A
life, that was full of laughter and happiness, has been snuffed out; we that mourn him can only treasure his
memory and the good deeds that he did.

Frank was a likable boy, and every man on the campus knew him as their friend. He was not given
to boasting nor to display but his quiet and unassuming ways won for him a place in the hearts of
all. That his life was a benefit to us who knew and loved him, we can tell by the effect
that his life will have upon us. We knew him for what he was, and his memory will remain green
with us. He was interested in things that interest us all; he loved the same things that we do; his
friends are our friends. His particular niche in the affairs of the college was made by work and diligence, and
he labored hard so that those who would come after him might benefit.

We who heard his light laughter and saw his face light up in smiles only a day or two ago
can scarce realize that he is gone. The thought of death lies lightly upon the minds of youth. It is
a thing to be laughed at until declining years when the lowering rays of life’s sun shine golden upon the
bowed heads and feeble bodies. Though Frank has gone, we can still sense his influence. Perhaps we feel that we
could have done more had we only known that the end was so near and yet so far away. Perhaps
it will teach us how to evaluate our friends while they live and love and not when the marble overshadows
their graves.

To his grief-stricken parents and relatives we offer our sincere condolences. Our sympathy goes out to them in their hour
of bereavement. We know that, even as they, we will miss our friend and companion who was cut down like
a flower in the full bloom of youth.

Campus football is all the go these nice afternoons. The game calls for cooperation and spurts of energy on the
part of everyone and that, connected with the fun of the crowd makes all get some good out of it.

OUR TEAM

The score at the end of the Carolina game said that Davidson lost 13 to 0. That, however, does not
nearly tell of the fight that ensued before Carolina was lucky enough to push across two touchdowns. It is said
that the Tar Heels are well pleased to have come out as they did. Davidson supporters went up to Chapel
Hill expecting to see a football game, nor were they disappointed. They received their money’s worth and more for it
was the snappiest game that has been played in the whole state this year. The spirit of both teams was
good; the game was cleanly played and the players and spectators alike had a good time.

It matters little who won the game. A score one way or the other does not matter much in the
end. The way in which the game is played, the spirit which enters into a victory or defeat—they are the
things that count. It is the thrill of the physical contest, the scudding of cleated feet across the turf and
the cheers from the stand that make a football player anxious to give all he has. A few cold statistics
at the end of the game count for very little with most of them. The encounter with the Tar Heels
was a thriller in every respect and both teams played a game that does credit to them. If the athletic
relations between the University and Davidson continue as pleasant as they have been for many years back, we hope that
they will never cease and will grow all the stronger.

LITERARY SOCIETIES

The Literary Societies of the College are striving to gain the place of importance which they should hold on the
campus. Their importance is acknowledged by both students and faculty, yet they are often handicapped by difficulties which seem unnecessary.
Good attendance is essential to society work, and this cannot be had when reviews are given on the nights when
the societies meet, especially when the review involves the entire freshman class. Reviews, coaching classes, and other meetings held on
Thursday nights mean not only that attendance is cut off, but that the programs are often broken up, and interest
in the meetings is decreased.

Furthermore, in order for the societies to have interesting meetings the debaters must be interesting. They are not interesting when
the subjects are not properly selected or when the material put out for the debaters is insufficient, or not on
the subject. We believe that much progress has been made by the Literary Societies this year and we hope that
they will soon come to hold the place of importance which they once held on the campus.

No one will make a wrong step by finding out about that job or whatever you are to do next
summer. The most of us wait until late in May or thereabouts to plan our work for the short but
important months of summer. A little work and observation on the side now will pay well.

Minor Chords

TO MY NECK PIECE

I found thee in the bottom of my trunk
Beneath a pile of books and papers old,
Undoubtedly it was a lot of bunk
That caused that burrowing expedition bold,
Consarn it all, why did I hide thee there
When well I knew I'd need thee sore some day?
The need arose when trees were growing bare;
When dogs began to bark, and donkeys bray—
The squeaky door flew open—in he walked,
Demanding thee—‘I want the thing at once.”
I soon did make excuse, in sooth I balked
He called me first an ordinary dunce,
But finally he offered me a dollar
For my old wrinkled up tuxedo collar
—B. F.

STAMINA

Speak loud of praise to him whose goal is won,
Of he who reached the prize he long had sought
For in life's chain hard labor has he spun
And nothing of his task has left unwrought.
Great is the glory when steep roads are passed
With unchanged gait and undiverted plan
Which overcomes the snares with will steadfast
And strongly ’gainst temptation can withstand
The power of mind to carry on is best.
Opposed to forcesHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

vast which seems too strong. For victory alone has he confessed. And after all the trial, to sing its song.
He strove to win within this mortal coil And in it found the key to life is toil. —Phil C.
Shook.

Open Forum

RESPECT

The articles in last week’s open forum entitled “Our Foster-Mothers,” is true and deserves our hearty endorsement so far as
it goes, but there’s one situation to be met that’s not in direct accord with the article as written. To
be sure, the most thoughtless and careless students have enough respect for our foster-mothers never to express scorn against them
if he would only stop to bethink his folly, and it is not the purpose of this article to condemn
but merely to put us to thinking. The situation mentioned is the way in which we conduct ourselves at the
movies. One of our foster-mothers attended a recent movie, during which some of the more careless students whooped and yelled
and made suggestive remarks at even the slightest inference, until it must have been most embarrassing to her, as well
as to the other ladies present. Can we say that we are showing them the respect that is theirs without
the asking? Do we manifest our desire and longing for maternal affections, or pay just reverence to those sincere hearts
which are emblems of purity, and “symbols of motherhood” when we conduct ourselves in this manner? Fellows, we're not placing
them on the pedestal of whole-hearted esteem as long as we ignore their presence to this extent. Have we ever
stopped to ask ourselves whether we would act differently in the presence of our own mothers? Surely we don’t want
to selfishly exclude all visitors from our shows; yet there are ladies in this town who refrain from going simply
because we fail to act like gentlemen in their presence, and make the situation one of embarrassment for them. Occasionally,
a student’s parents visit him and he is actually ashamed to take them to the show. If they should go
and witness such conduct as we have, do you suppose they would be favorably impressed with the gentlemanly qualities of
Davidson men? How could they? We are not conducting ourselves as becomes a Davidson man when we fail to respect
the presence of “somebody's mother.” It is true that boys will be boys, but this is no reason why they
should cease to be gentlemen. We never think of discarding the ways of a gentleman when we attend a real
theater. That's because we know when and how to act as a gentleman. Why can’t we then, lay aside our
childishness and thoughtlessness long enough to prove our respect and admiration for the nobler sex? —H. L. S.

FREEDOM OF SPEECH

History vividly recalls the bitter struggles that took place in American courts during the eventful days in which American liberty
was extended so as to embody freedom of the press. Years have passed since that early era, and the public
press today stands as a fitting monument to the foresight of our early forefathers. No longer is the daily press
harangued by stringent governmental restrictions. Today news and comments are conveyed, without governmental supervision, to the readers of American newspapers,
which have been enabled thereby to attain a place of leadership in the molding of thought and opinion. What a
pity that this same freedom cannot be extended to college publications! There are institutions today, which, even in this advanced
age of liberty, fail to see the justification of freedom in the collegiate press. Such institutions allow students to edit
and finance newspapers of their own, but limit thought and expression to such an extreme that the publications lose all
the qualities that are necessary to make the publications representative of student thought and ideals. Many college newspapers today are
allowed to run along without interference from the college officials, so long as its columns are free from any mention
of student vices, so long as its editorial comments are limited to remarks of praise and laudation for student traditions
and practices. But, there comes a time when the editors in their attempt to give the news and views of
the campus, fail to keep within these bounds. They print reports of occurrences that fail to reflect glory on the
college, they express opinions that seem out of keeping with the ideas held by the administrators; and the freedom of
the press vanishes with the twinkling of an eye. Editors are reprimanded, sometimes punished severely—and yet they have acted only
in compliance with their duties as spokesmen of the mass of students that make up the institution. Such narrow regulations
are choking the life from many college publications, and are transforming them into mere bulletins of advertising propaganda for the
colleges. Is it fair to the students? Evidently the forty-odd editors of North Carolina collegiate publications believe not, judging from
their recent unanimous adoption of a resolution lamenting strict faculty supervision. Is the “Davidsonian” allowed to exercise freedom of the
press? —HARLEE BRANCH, JR.

Now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of their literary societies. We say that
they should be extricated, decapitated and cremated:
1. That parasite who is “just out” of cigarettes.
2. The guy that practices on his horn and attempts one piece for an entire month.
3. The freshman who is always trying to convey the idea that he was the hot stuff in high school.
4. The windbag who tells all the details of his last date in Charlotte.
5. The sheik who brags about the number of women he has around his neck.
6. The female who writes about “the most adorable boy that I met at the dance last night.”
7. The moron who pulls extra dumb cracks and then laughs louder than anyone else.
8. The conscientious scoundrel who gets a question added to the test by his bright remarks.
9. The pro who insists upon three hours preparation on his subject.
10. The thief who takes all the meat and hands you the empty dish.

“Sale on! Sale on!” cried Columbus, as he tried to sell his strings of beads to the Indians.

Have you heard the latest song-hit? “I call my girl Listerine because she takes my breath.”

One—“Have you ever heard of Dante’s Inferno?”
Two—“Yeah. It’s hell, ain’t it.”

The old sea-captain bought a Victrola and put it in his hen-house and said to the hens, “Now that's a
good music box and you may lay to that.”

Have you met the two Timber sisters, May Hogany, and Rose Wood?

HAVE YOU EVER?

HAVE YOU ever GOT up late and MISSED YOUR breakfast, AND THEN remembered ALL OF A SUDDEN that YOU had
a written LESSON AND a paper TO HAND in that morning AND YOU HADN'T cracked A THING the night BEFORE,
and then YOU THINK intensely for A MOMENT, and then YOU LIMP SLOWLY down TO THE INFIRMARY and get excused
from YOUR CLASSES AND YOU FEEL PRETTY good, and THEN YOU hear that THE PROF WILL CUT ALL CLASSES for
THAT DAY! HAVE YOU ever?

It was rumored that Deck had a poetic inspiration. One of the staff of the Keyhole reporters rushed immediately to
the scene. The above-mentioned gentleman was walking the floor of the bathroom chanting his last heroic actions. The reporter fell
in behind him and caught the following words. The title of the outburst is “REVENGE.” Hold to your seat, here
we go:

I took myself an empty sack to fill, And went into the water piped room; To fill the sack was
but an easy trick. With pains I took myself and puffed out bag. Along the dark and set-in walls, Until
I came to windows at the front. I cast the sack with force to earth below, Not daring as I
threw the nasty gob, To poke my head into the outer light, But waiting in the dimly lit-up place I
heard the howls of stricken man come up. In peace I laid me down to gentle sleep, For well I
knew that bag had hit the mark.

Mr. “C” of the law cases may take his place along with little Jeff, Boob McNutt, Jiggs, the Widow Zander,
and the last coach on the train for always getting the worst of it.

T. G. Mc.—“Do you know who wrote Poe’s Lay of the Last Minstrel?”
J. B. W.—“Poe?”
T. G. W.—“Naw, Scott.”

We started to tell you the good old joke about the necktie, but it ought not to be pulled. —KABLE.
