m a day to play State on!

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 12, 1925

Initiation Brings Great Athletes Into “D” Club

Through Strenuous Season—Alumni Help

The news was spread last week that there was a great day “a-coming,” and to the men who have in
the past year made your coveted “D” in some branch of athletics, that day came Saturday night when fifteen men
were initiated into the D Club. Of the sixteen, four made their letter in basketball, five in football, three in
wrestling, one in tennis, two in track, and one in baseball. The men making their letters in the year 1923-24
in basketball were: Spec McConnell, Boggs, Staley, Laird; in football: Summers, Baker, Black, Vance, Wells, Laird; in wrestling: Patterson, N.
G., Cox, L. P., Cox, W. D.; tennis: Trotter; baseball: Simpson; track: Williford, Anderson.

On next Saturday night all the men making their letter in football last fall, together with this year’s basketball team
and managers in baseball, basketball, track, and football will be initiated. The men winning their letters in football are: McAulay,
Sappenfield, Bohannon, Leggett, Joe McConnell, Pinkney; in basketball: Tom Anderson, and Hewlett; manager of basketball: Oeland; manager of football: McAllister;
manager of track: Patton; Cheer Leader: Bryant.

Beginning about five o'clock on Saturday afternoon, when the initiates were locked up in the boiler room of the heating
plant, until they assembled in front of the dormitories about one o’clock, things were stirring every minute. Right after the
show things began to hum, though, and everything went along smoothly until the last candidates had passed along the rough
path to become a full-fledged member in that honored institution. To offset the racking moments that they missed in the
boiler room, Trotter, Vance, and Wells rendered a very appropriate little song about the times they have with their “darlings”
during the picture show.

Several of the older alumni members of the D Club were present at the initiation, among them being Doc DeArmon,
John Shenck, and Pete Crayton. The initiates report that they made their presence felt. On next Saturday night the Club
expects to have another big meeting, when the other division of initiates will be shown along the rocky pathway. It
is understood that the initiates are hoping that several of the old members are called away on business Saturday and
cannot be present.

SUCCESSFUL PRACTICE CLOSED SATURDAY

The second, and probably the most successful, spring football practice that Davidson has ever experienced came to a close last
Saturday afternoon with the game between the Red and Black team and Hickory High School. Two Saturdays previous to this
had witnessed practice games between the Reds and the Blacks, two picked teams of equal strength, in which contests the
Blacks had won once 14-0, while the other game was a tie 0-0. During the five weeks that spring training
has lasted, more than fifty men have reported each afternoon on the athletic field. From their playing, the coaches have
been able to get a line on the team which will represent Davidson next fall on the gridiron. Quite a
few have shown up so well as to ensure them of giving somebody a fight for his place the coming
September. Many of the Freshmen who were on the squad looked particularly promising, and the members of last fall’s Wildkitten
team should scratch even more effectively later on as full-grown Wildcats.

Perhaps the greatest development of the practice was Hugh Arrowood at end. His work last fall on the fresh team
was of the highest order but this spring he showed conclusively that he was real varsity material. John Melton was
converted into a backfield man and promises to go good. Baker was shifted back to his old position at end
and has been doing good.

N. C. State seems to start the season with the best chances, 12 letter men from their championship team returning
this spring. The Techmen will open their season over here on our grass infield on April Fool’s day.

What ten thousand of his fellow brought joy to Queens College.

Wealthiest Baltimorian Wires Bequest to Queens

‘Sophomores Planning to Stage Supreme Banquet

Saturday Sees Eighteen Pass ‘Sir B’Jove Rogers’ Gift Causes Uproar in New York—Hasty Exodus at Queens

Gift Unexplainable

Paralleling the great Duke bequest in his magnificent generosity and bringing the United-Order-of-Squeeze-the-Dollar-Tight to their feet with cries of “Treason,”
Sir B’Jove Rogers by one stroke of his Woolsworth pen today, following an entire life uninterrupted by even one example
of magnanimity though daily Mr. Rogers has been storing away vast sums, stocks (private) and bonds, the announcement of his
benevolent gift created quite a stir.

Wall Street Closes for Day

As the news of Sir Rogers’ gift was flashed across the wires to Charlotte, from which it went leaping throughout
the world, a telegraph operator in New York City realized the ambition of his life. There in the somber, dull
quiet of the New York Exchange, where the monotony of small sums of money passing over the wires had almost
sent him back to Main Street, the Western Union employee fainted with excitement at the amount Sir Rogers was giving
to the school. He is expected to recover.

Charlotte Goes Wild

A brass band was immediately chartered on receipt of the news. For the first time in the history of the
city, the street car men struck for higher wages, abandoning their cars in front of the well-known college. The college
girls, who had never before violated the stringent rules of the institution, swamped down upon the derelict cars, shot the
current to them, sending the cars out upon diverse routes in a wild celebration.

Davidson Quietly Honors Rogers

The inhabitants of the little college village, shocked beyond immediate recovery, closed their tiny shops, walked to their respective homes
where they were met by their tearful wives. The students were too overcome to speak about the matter. Actually, men
passed each other on the dry walks without lifting their heads. The boys, after spending several years in close fellowship
with Rogers, are unable to solve the problem. Crossword puzzles have been thrown away, books were blowing over the campus,
meals were forgotten. No one cared to eat in such strenuous times.

Mr. Rogers Speaks Little

Rogers in his palatial apartment roof-garden of the West-is-West building was simply dressed as usual. No servants were at the
doors and a cheap “Come in” answered the reporters’ taps. When asked what caused his great outpouring of blessing upon
the poor, half-fed, and half-clad Amazons, Mr. Rogers answered with his well-known scanty phraseology “Pity.” Tears came into his eyes
as he told of the hundreds of circulars which greeted his eyes every time he looked at the ground around
the post office. A half-broken man, he did not in the least seem to regret the act. He said that
when he thought of the many dollars that those soiled and torn pamphlets represented he could not resist the temptation
to atone for them.

No Strings to Gift

Mr. Rogers said that there were absolutely no strings to the gift. In fact, he intimated that his great wealth
could not be further taxed even by strings.

Money Came Slowly

Sir Rogers, coming penniless from Baltimore to Davidson, has gradually built up a great fortune. Further than saying that it
was by a penny-by-penny process, Rogers would not reveal anything more. His usual stinginess of words was in evidence.

(Special to Davidsonian)

CHARLOTTE, N. C., MARCH 12—At a special meeting of the board of trustees of the college it was unanimously decided
to begin the immediate construction of the Rogers Incinerator. In view of the character of Mr. Rogers and the love
that he has expressed for his “alma soror,” this was thought to be especially fitting.

(Special to Davidsonian)

CHESTER, S. C., MARCH 12—Ten street cars bearing the imprint of Charlotte, passed through here late tonight in spite of
vain attempts of the local police force to arrest them for speeding. The cars, carrying what seemed to be a
picture show following, were seen heading towards the college.

Everything seems to be in readiness for the long-anticipated Sophomore banquet, which is to get under way at the Charlotte
Chamber of Commerce banquet hall, promptly at 7 o’clock on the nightof March 19. The members of the committees have
been working hard to get everything in tip-top shape, and to see that no detail, which would add to the
enjoyment and comfort of the class and their guests, is neglected. They have succeeded in such a way as to
indicate that the annual event will be one of the best ever held. The program will be varied and interesting,
speeches and musical numbers being combined. From the time Toastmaster Branch takes charge until the close of the banquet there
is not expected to be a dull moment or let-up in the program, which will be a ready disperser of
grouches. Nothing but jollity and good fellowship will prevail. Among the guests will be three or four members of the
faculty, including Prof. H. K. Foreman, the Soph faculty advisor. Willard Keerans is in charge of decorations and he plans
to have the banquet room attractively decorated. A special souvenir program is being arranged by the class committee, and, of
course, will be given to all who attend. The Sophomores will be transported to Charlotte and brought back by special
busses. After the banquet, the class will probably attend a motion picture in a body. The members of the committee
making arrangements are: W. T. Covington, Harllee Branch, Floyd Jones, Don Wharton, Willard Keerans, W. S. Woods, Jim Pinkney, and
Bill Christian.

S. A. E.'S ARE HOSTS TO ALUMNI IN QUEEN CITY

The Davidson Chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon were hosts to the alumni at a Founders’ Day banquet last night at
the New Charlotte Hotel. The banquet was held in celebration of the sixty-ninth anniversary of the founding of the fraternity.
Major A. J. James, Davidson, '06, was toastmaster and filled several short talks by active men in the chapter were
enjoyed during the course of the evening. The desire of a closer relation between the alumni of Charlotte and the
chapter at Davidson was expressed several times during the dinner. The goal sought after by all present was the establishment
of an alumni association in Charlotte. The diners were entertained by songs rendered by Watt McCain, Davidson, '24 and piano
selections by Bob Dye, Carolina, '23. Approximately a hundred alumni and men of the chapter were entertained at the dinner.

EIGHT INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATERS

(Continued from page 1)

and Wharton, on the Wake Forest team, with Branch as alternate, and Shaw, Martin, and Ratchford, on the P. C.
team, with Holtshouser as alternate. All of the large number out for places on the two teams showed excellent preparation
according to the judges’ report, and they had some difficulty in deciding who were the best fitted. The successful candidates
are all members of literary societies, and each society is represented by one or more men. Bowie, Branch, and Martin
belong to the Eumenean; Parker and Wharton to the Metrophilian; Shaw and Ratchford to the Pandeinic; and Holtshouser to the
Philanthropic. Although definite dates for the contests with Wake Forest and P. C. have not yet been set, the two
debates will be held sometime the latter part of April and the first week in May.

A wild crowd of youthful maidens on their way from a funeral were loaded to the muzzle. Efforts to determine
where they are from and whence they are going were fruitless.

(Special to Davidsonian)

RICHBURG, S. C, MARCH 12—One young lady, crowded off the cars from Charlotte, today told hospital attendants that girls were
leaving Queens because of private information received that they would have to go to work to pay interest on the
Rogers gift which after all was only a loan. (New York Papers please copy.)

Monday the alumni and also by the Junior class that the hall be placed at their disposal during Junior Speaking
was provisionally passed. The action that the society took makes the hall of no use whatever for social purposes since
the provision was that the seats were not to be removed.

Wildcat Hall of Fame

LOUIS BROYLES CRAYTON

Football** Baseball***

Louis Crayton, coming to Davidson from Charlotte, proved to be one of the best all-round athletes that the school had
produced up to that time. He was our stellar backfield man in his senior year, and when spring came along
he played the best brand of baseball seen on the hill for many a day. “Pete”, after leaving Davidson, entered
the business world and showed his ability as a real leader. He later returned to his alma mater as coach,
giving up his business for a time and, in spite of poor material, turned out a fighting, scrappy team that
opponents of the “Wildcats” feared. The “Quips and Cranks” of 1915 had the following to say about Crayton: “Pete” ran
like a war-horse and was built like a brick house. The opposing ends and tackles learned to fear him as
he put one of them out of every game. He was quite a ladies’ man, too. He had chosen chemistry
as his hobby, and if he pursues it, as he does other things, he is sure to succeed.” “Pete” played
class-football for a year and varsity for two. Baseball, however, was his favorite and he starred for three seasons in
the sandlot game. He served as president of the “D” club and was a member of the executive committee of
the athletic association. His team in 1919, when he was acting as coach, played teams such as Georgia Tech, Wake
Forest, V. M. I., W. & L., Clemson and Furman, besides the usual array of state teams. The Wildcat team
of that year caused much favorable comment from the papers of the South.

Literary Societies

Pandeinic

The last meeting of the society was called to order by President Gibbs. After the usual preliminaries the query of
the debate was read: Resolved, That North Carolina should ratify the port terminals and transport act. The affirmative was upheld
by J. S. Gray, P. J. Garrison, F. T. Franklin and W. H. Bardeaux. Those who debated on the negative
were A. H. Hollingsworth, C. R. McCarty, J. W. Farnum, and R. H. McIlwaine. The bill was defeated. J. F.
McCrary was brought up for membership and was initiated into the society.

Eumenean

The Eumenean Literary Society held its regular meeting Thursday evening in Eu hall. Wade Allison, vice-president, presided in the absence
of President Purdy. In an extemporaneous debate, Resolved, That the R. O. T. C. should be abolished from the curriculum
of Davidson College, Engle and Gladney were appointed on the affirmative. While these gentlemen were preparing their debates, W. C.
Ramsey delivered an oration, Civic Pride, a plea for better campus conditions. The judges of the debate awarded the decision
to the affirmative. On the floor, Ramsey led the opposition and the house decided for the negative. Paul Freeland then
gave a unique short story in a most pleasing way. A motion in respect to a request of the Junior
class that the hall be placed at their disposal during Junior Speaking was provisionally passed. The action that the society
took makes the hall of no use whatever for social purposes since the provision was that the seats were not
to be removed.

Duke University is planning a championship team. Dempster, the best college pitcher in the state, is captain, having signed for
the summer’s work following graduation with the Greensboro Patriots. The Tar Heels lost Bryson but will have Bill Ferebee still
on the mound.

Next to being Curator of the I. C. S. The most useless job in the world is to be water
carrier on the swimming team.

“What is it when you're married twice at the same time?”
“Polygamy.”
“And when you’re married once?”
“Monotony.”
—C. C. N. Y. Mercury.

Just one of many! The others are fully as desirable—footwear for any requirement, any occasion, & reasonably priced. You are
cordially invited to come and look ’em over! On Display By Mr. A. M. Shimmon at Honor Store 19th and
20th

John's Shoes INCORPORATED — REG. U.S. PAT. OFF. Stores in New York, Brooklyn, N.Y.

Smart as They Make ’Em.--- And Just as Correct

That’s what these new spring suits are like. Lots of pep and ginger about the patterns. Lots of snap and
style to the models. Spring’s already started--- better drop in and look ’em over.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient For Davidson Men
