THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 17, 1925

Letters to Santa Claus Show Distinct Yuletide Interest Among College Boys

The following are a few of the choicest letters that have been sent to the jolly old saint of the Yuletide season by Davidson students. These letters have been collected from the fireplaces, Mr. Carter's post office, Uncle Baxter's mail sack, and other places. Only a few more days, fellows, so get your letters in early.

Dear Santa Claus:
I want you to bring me another copy of my favorite song, “Everything Is Hotsy Totsy Now,” so I can sing it to the school teachers down at Huntersville. My voice has improved wonderfully in the past few weeks. You can also bring me anything else you want to.
Affectionately,
Harold Burke.

Dear Mr. Santa Claus:
I am a little boy, rather good looking, but I don’t wear knickerbockers. I want you to bring me a book entitled, “How To Become a Critic in Ten Lessons.” Also bring me a copy of Nietzsche’s poems. I’d also like a big wild-Western pistol so I can shoot all the professors. Have you any nice watermelons?
Your little friend,
(Mr.) Harllee Bordeaux.

Dear Sandy:
I've got to do a right smart of sheiking after Christmas and I want a good make-up box with powder, paint, and all the rest. I’ve just had my eyebrows weeded and my face clayed, so I’m ready to let the girls fall for me. I wish you would bring me some nice pink garters to match my hair. I like to wear them on Sunday. If you have any more copies, I wish you would bring me “How To Drive a Ford With One Arm.” I have been real good this year.
Flake Laird.

Dear Old Sandy Clause:
Won't you please bring me a hammer and a lot of tacks? I like to drive them in the furniture. Also bring me a lot of firecrackers and roaming candles. Bring me a little red sled because I have a nice okra field at home to slide in. I wish you would also bring me some Blue Jay corn plaster and an etiquette book.
Yours truly,
Oates McCullen.

Dear St. Nick:
Please bring us two little drums, two toy pistols, and a pair of dice. Also two alligator pears. We like everything in pairs because we are twins. We have been as good as Cal Coolidge all this year and haven't made a bit of fuss for our teachers. We would like to have a nice library table that we can rest our feet on when we get good and ready. We want a thousand paper sacks so we can throw water out of Georgia. Don't forget our little swamp angels down in Mississippi.
Your Two Tiny Tots,
The Gwinn Twins.

Dear Santa:
Although my conduct during the past year has been on the whole above the average, I desire no great remuneration. I ask only for a few simple gifts quite within the reach of your kind generosity and trust that you will see fit to indulge my whims. I want you to bring me a nice Ford coupe (one hand drive), a season ticket to all the musical comedies in Charlotte, a six-foot telescope for use at the same, a gross of cartons of Herbert Tarreyton fags, a diamond stud, a copy of Decameron, and some embroidery work to do in my leisure hours.
Your friend,
Warren Ogden.

Dear Santa Claus:
I want you to bring me some little tin soldiers and a cowboy suit with real sheepskin on it. I am going to be a soldier when I get big and I want to practice now. Please have the soldiers red. I also want a little toy cannon and a kiddie car to ride to chapel on. I like candy, nuts, fruit, and other things, too. If you have any scraps left over, why just bring them by my house.
P. S.—Don't forget the pop gun.
Your little friend,
Squads Joyner.

Dear Santa Claus:
I am awaiting your arrival with a keen sense of anticipation mixed with a few shots of gin. You know just what I want, so please bring them to me. Don’t forget, it’s 44 calibre, and shoots ten times. I have been a good little boy this year, and haven't written my name in the watertank with my guns. I have made several trips to the golf course, though, and have put my initials in every tree, standing 250 paces away. My radio is working good since I bought a few steel jackets and made some ventilation holes in the panel. It’s just a 14-tube set, but I think I heard station BULL in Charlotte about a month ago.
Yours till I run out of cartridges,
Diamond Dick McCarty.

S. Claus, Inc.
North Pole.
Gentlemen:
As is its usual custom at this season of the year, the Yuletide celebration again approaches and it becomes necessary in the course of human events to address a beseeching epistle to your gentlemen. Laying aside all personal desires and writing you philanthropically, I wish to beg of you a few gifts for my friends.
Firstly: A new jacket like “Cairo” Sloppy Lingle’s.
Secondly: A small booklet on “How To Play Basketball Like Goofy Withers.”
Thirdly: A small bottle of tonic to prevent the absence of hair from my pate.
Thanking you in advance for all these many kind favors to my friends, I remain,
Very respectfully, carefully, sincerely, earnestly, and truly yours,
Boyce Martin.

Dear Sandy Claws:
I am a little boy, nineteen years old, weighing 147 pounds. I go to school at Davidson College and I like all my teachers fine. I have been a nice little boy all year, so I hope you will fill my sock with all sorts of goodies this Christmas. I don’t want very much, but here are a few things you might bring along: A set of lessons on the proper way to osculate; a book of round trip tickets to N. C. C. W.; one almanac showing when the full moon appears; and a chart showing how to “Charleston.” My girl in George White Scandals told me you ain't—but I knows you is. And, Sandy old man, please be good to my girl friends in Greensboro, Charlotte, Atlanta, Spartanburg, and all other points on your southern route.
Your little friend,
Harllee Branch, Jr.

Dear Sandy Klaws:
You know me, kid, so be good to me when it comes time to strut your stuff. I want a new set of type for my Davidsonian because this is worn out. I also want a new pair of socks, cause the pair you brought me last Xmas is worn out now, and if I throw them up against the wall they stick like a poor widow to a millionaire. I am editor-and-chief of the city disturber, which comes out weekly, so send me a set of ready-made editorials.
Yourtill ‘Greenwich Village’ comes back to Charlotte, C. Freddewreck Smythe, S.C., T.B., B.V.D., R.F.D., F.O.B., N.E.C.K., C.O.D., A.B.C.?

Dear Mr. Santa Claus:

You needn't send me a present this Christmas, as I live in Florida and my dad made a couple of million this morning before breakfast. Anyhow, don’t come to Florida, as everybody is happy down there and you might get killed in the rush. We light our cigars with twenty dollar bills, and anything except El Toro cigars. I don’t smoke. Don't come down in your sleigh as some of the tin can tourists will run over your reindeers, and I would advise you to come in a bathing suit and wear a boat.

Floyd Jones.

Mr. Claws, dearest,

I take up my pen to expostulate just a wee bit. At the present setting I am suffering with a tummy ache. My nickname is “Amoeba” and I go to Greensboro and play Sheik out at N.C. with a lap robe and a table and make like I got a tent. I want one in my stocking. I like Mr. Joyner, who is my playmate almost as much as I do myself and my hair. Please send me a booklet on “The Insidious Thing About Charleston-ing”—your best friend won't tell you you can't.

Lovingly, with the utmost devotion,
J. Subler McAlister.
And staff

Mr. S. T. Clas, Esq,
Igloo No. 13,
North Pole, Teeland.

Dear Mr. Claus:

In accordance with your custom of many years’ standing, we wish to again beg your kind consideration of our many needs at this time of the year. We desire, if possible, to secure the following gifts:
A treatise on the “Freedom of the Press.”
A modern, up-to-date office with the necessary equipment.
A set of standing excuses from classes every Tuesday.
A big supply of real news.
Less criticism and more sympathy.

Kindly give this matter your earliest possible attention.

Respectfully yours,
The Davidsonian Staff.

IN APPRECIATION OF THE SERVICES OF MRS. OREN MOORE

After the close of football season, few if any of even the most interested ones, pause to think of words of appreciation and thanks that are due to many who have worked faithfully for the betterment of the team throughout the entire season. One of these individuals, so vitally interested in the welfare of the Wildcat fighters of gridiron fame, is Mrs. Oren Moore of Charlotte. Before each game of the fall that she was unable to attend, her absence due only to the fact that the contest was staged too far from her home, a long distance telephone message of encouragement and cheer was received by the team from Mrs. Moore. At every game that she witnessed, she presented a box of chewing gum to the members of the squad. At the close of the long gruelling fall of practice and games, Mrs. Moore gave the team several cakes and two cartons of cigarettes. Last spring at the close of the month of practice she gave the team dainties and smokes and emitted words of praise and encouragement. Dr. Oren Moore, when he attended Davidson was one of the outstanding men of the campus, in his Senior year being President of the Athletic Association, and a member of various athletic teams.

HOMEWARD ROUTES (Continued from page 1)

pilgrimages will be in the direction of home, but not all will be such. There are a few rare spirits among the students who count other trips more desirable, for easily discernable reason—the incidental aims of fair connection, not to mention any names; though it is general gossip on the campus that such is one of the charms of Mr. Franklin's tour.

Among those traveling east, it is only just that we should mention two very distinguished gentlemen who are planning to honor the Seaboard with their patronage, Mr. Westbrook, of Wilmington, and Oates McCullom, of Faison. The latter, at an interview recently, stated that he had received a wire from the mayor of his city relative to his exact hour of arrival, in order that a band and committee of welcome might be there to greet him.

I call my girlie ketchup because she’s artificially colored.

When the second act has come to an end—and the curtain is rung down amidst whirling applause—when you mingle outside with the excited throngs in the lobby—have a Camel!

WHEN the thrilling second act has come to an end. And you join the crowds outside just as pleased and thrilled as yourself—have a Camel! For no other friend is so cheerful, so resting between acts as Camel. Camel adds its own romantic glamour to the brightness of memorable occasions. No other cigarette ever made—and kept—so many friends. Camels never tire your taste, no matter how liberally you smoke them. Camels never leave a cigaretty after-taste. So when you leave the theatre pleased and inspired for greater things—taste the mellowest smoke that ever came from a cigarette. Have a Camel!

Into the making of this one cigarette goes all of the ability of the world’s largest organization of expert tobacco men. Nothing is too good for Camels. The choicest Turkish and domestic tobaccos. The most skilful blenders. The most scientific package. No other cigarette made is like Camels. No finer cigarette can be made. Camels are the overwhelming choice of experienced smokers. Our highest wish, if you do not yet know Camel quality, is that you try them. We invite you to compare Camels with any cigarette made at any price.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.