THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1925

It will probably be of interest to the many friends of Rev. W. A. Black, who is conducting the revival
here this week, to know that he has four sons graduated from Davidson College, all of whom are making names
for themselves in their respective fields of endeavor. The Davidsonian herewith gives a short account of the accomplishments of each
son.

F. L. Black, the oldest boy, was graduated from Davidson in 1904. He practiced law for a number of years
in Charlotte, and when border hostilities broke out, he went to Mexico with the Pershing expedition, and afterward went overseas
with the 20th division with the rank of captain in the 119th infantry. He stayed in Germany with the army
of occupation, and after he returned to America he was offered a place in the standing U.S. Army, which he
accepted and now holds. He is now stationed at Post No. 9, Boston, Mass.

Also in the class of '04 was the second boy, Clarence Linwood. He took his A.M. upon graduation and accepted
a position as assistant to the state chemist in Raleigh. Next, he was assistant in the assayor's office at Charlotte.
From this position, Mr. Black went to Yale where he took his degree in chemistry, and was then placed in
charge of the U.S. Bureau of Chemistry. He later accepted a position as head of the Pillsbury Chemical Company in
Minneapolis, where he has the same work today while also engaging in research work.

The third son, W. A. Black, Jr., graduated in the class of 1906 and took his A.M. in 1907. He
first accepted work teaching in South Carolina, where he became principal and then rose to superintendent. He later accepted a
position at Greenwood, S.C., where he is superintendent of the public schools and now has something over 4,000 pupils in
the different schools.

The youngest son, A. F. Black, got his degree from Davidson in 1910, and was for a number of years
secretary of the Manufacturer's Lumber Association of Charlotte, which place he resigned at the outbreak of the war and went
to Oglethorpe Military Training School, where he received a commission as a Lieutenant and remained in service on the Mexican
border till the close of the war. He then accepted a position as traveling salesman for the Du Pont Company
of Wilmington, Del. After being promoted several times, he was placed in charge of the company’s offices at Columbus, Ga.,
where he is now located and has in his charge the company’s business in the states of Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi,
and Louisiana.

REUNION CLASS OF '24

To the Men of the Class of 1924
Greetings:

The commencement of the class of 1925 is not far distant, and, as it is the custom for a graduating
class to hold its first reunion one year following its graduation, I do urge the men of the class of
1924 to present themselves on the campus of Davidson College, June first to June fifth, for their first reunion.

Randolph Jones, Jr.

ALUMNI NOTES

'10—Emmett G. Routh is now teaching at Columbia University, New York City.

'23—Guy Weeks is now working at Harrisburg, Va.

'24—Dr. Fitch, president of Hangchow College, reports that Warren Cox is making a fine impression at the college and is
doing good work among the students.

COLOR! ---AND PLENTY OF IT
That’s what you'll find in the new spring furnishings.
SHIRTS
NECKWEAR
SOCKS
Better drop in and stock up; you'll find it easy to pick ’em.
MELLON’S

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
SODA : CIGARS
PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS
AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
IW. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00

Alumni on the Hill
David C. Shaw, '21; Doc Donaldson, '21; A. D. Cromartie, '24; Wallace Moore, '23; Paul Story, '24; W. S. Buchanan,
'24; J. R. Morrison, ex-'27.

Marriage
The marriage of Miss Maude Elizabeth Stone, of Spartanburg, S.C., to R. W. Porter, '17, was recently announced.

Deaths
'78—Rev. Dr. David Irvin Craig, of Reidsville, prominent Presbyterian minister, theologian, historian, and author, died at his home at 7:30
o'clock, February 9th, following an illness of five days with pneumonia. Dr. Craig was one of the leading Presbyterian ministers
of North Carolina and the Southern Presbyterian Church. He had been in fair health until five days before.his death, although
he had resigned his pastorate of the Reidsville Presbyterian Church three and a half years ago, when he was elected
pastor emeritus, and has since been devoting his time to historical writings. Now 76 years old, Dr. Craig had been
an active pastor for 43 years. For probably 40 years Dr. Craig was stated clerk of the Orange Presbytery, and
for 25 years had been stated clerk of the Synod of North Carolina. He was one of the organizers of
Barium Springs Orphanage; for many years a trustee of Davidson College, and a trustee of Union Theological Seminary.

Surviving Dr. Craig are two sons and two daughters, Mrs. S. M. Purcell, of Salisbury; I. M. Craig, of Wilmington;
Rev. Carl B. Craig, of Laurinburg, N. C., and Miss Louise B. Craig, of Reidsville. One brother, I. P. Craig,
and three sisters, all of Orange County, also survive.

*88—Rev. J. A. Harris, born October 6, 1861, died November 8, 1924. Just after completing his work in the Union
Theological Seminary, he accepted a pastorate in Rowan County, N. C., one of the oldest churches in North Carolina. He
volunteered for Foreign Mission work, but was rejected for physical reasons, and thus he went into the depths of Home
Mission work in the mountains of North Carolina. Being an unusual business man he began to save, and invest part
of his salary each month, and at his death left his entire accumulation to the Foreign Mission Committee, for work
in Africa, a net amount of $20,000; which will represent him in the field denied him.

Change of Address: Rev. J. R. Hay from Brevard, N. C., to Clover, S. C.

NICE CROWN OF MEN (Continued from page 1)

The query chosen for this year is, Resolved: That the North Carolina Legislature should ratify the Port Terminals and Water
Transportation Bill. All of the affirmative teams stay at home, the traveling being left to the negative debaters. Our negative
team shows its skill at Chapel Hill, with Wake Forest's Negative visiting the Hill. A. Y. Bowie, in announcing the
names who have already signified their intention of trying out for the team, set next Saturday, February 21, as the
closing date for the entries. Among those who are to attempt to win a place on this much coveted team
are: Leo Pritchard, Julien Lake, Rod McRae, Malcolm Murchison, Frank Ebey, W. T. Lingle, Harry Patterson, John P. McKnight, Malcolm
Lockhart, H. T. Powell, Wallace Bradford, Boyce Martin, P. J. Garrison and Caldwell Withers. The preliminaries for this match are
to be held March 5, with the actual debate occurring April 6.

DR. SWAN (Continued from page 1)

Many of these pictures were labelled, the object of which was to give to the audience a more complete vocabulary
of hygienic terms and to replace such terms already possessed by a better and more correct one. Major Swan, as
he is known at West Point, where he was stationed for several years with the Medical Corps, is one of
the leading physicians of New York City. He owns and operates the largest boys’ camp in New England, the Pine
Island Camp for Boys. At that place several Davidson students have in the past served as counselors. It is one
of the highest class camps in the country, ideally situated and well developed. Dr. Swan, under the American Social Hygiene
Association, has been through most of the larger universities of the South. Routed by the Y. M. C. A., he
was especially sent to Davidson College.

On Sunday, Harry Price went to Morganton, and in the Methodist Church of that city conducted a meeting for the
young men. Mr. Grady Leonard, the Boys’ Work Secretary of the Y. M. C. A. in the western district, is
doing splendid work in this community, and a great deal of progress is being made. Hayden Hollingsworth spoke Sunday evening
at the Caldwell Memorial Church. His talk was of particular interest to young people, but also contained many excellent thoughts
for older persons. This service was well-attended.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

SUNDAY 4:00 o'clock of the afternoon the most dangerous hour in America Are you, too, fully prepared? Watch future issues
for the answer

McAlister Carson, Manager
Charlotte, N. C.

Special Values Being Offered in

BELK BROS.
Headquarters For Young Men’s College Suits
Wide Bottom Pants
In one or two piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50
The New Style Bell Bottom Pants
In Light, Medium and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95
Trade With Us and Save Money
