THE DAVIDSONIAN

TWO DEBATES
(Continued from page 1)

The exact nature of the proposed preliminaries could also be found out. The dates for the Freshman triangular with Wake
Forest and North Carolina University have not been definitely settled, but in all probability will come in April, just preceding
the Easter recess. The query is, Resolved: That the North Carolina Legislature should ratify the port terminals bill. One Davidson
team will debate the affirmative and another the negative in the preliminaries to be held on the 5th of March.
Six men will be picked here also, only Freshmen being eligible.

It is requested that the men planning to try out for this debate hand in their names to A. Y.
Bowie right away. Material for all these queries will be found in the library, where it will be kept for
use of anyone studying the questions. None of it can be removed from the rooms of the library, except at
the discretion of the librarian, and because of a limited number of books and magazines available, those interested will do
well to begin work at once in preparation for the preliminaries.

Philanthropist—"What a foul-mouthed little brat you are!”
Boy—"Who wouldn't be? Six of us and only one toothbrush!”—Purple Cow.

TAILORED AT FASHION PARK
A Blizzard Protection with a Drawing Room Distinction
$45.00 and More
COURTESY OF FASHION PARK

CENTRAL
Dyeing and
MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine In Connection
HAT SHOP
Pressing
CHARLOTTE OF PHILADELPHIA
WARRKENS
Importing Tailors for College Men
Showing Complete Line New English Woolens
Top Coats $25 Up
Monday, February 9th

Van Sant to Accept an Engineering Position
Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings Leaves to Make Home in Raleigh

David B. Van Sant, who has been officially connected with Davidson College for the past year and a half, recently
resigned his position with the school to accept a position as Mechanical Engineer with The Dillon Co., of Raleigh, N.
C., one of the largest machinery manufacturing concerns in the southeast. Mr. Van Sant severed his connections with Davidson the
first of last week after a year and a half of service as Engineer and Superintendent of the Grounds and
Buildings. He came here in June, 1923, having just graduated from North Carolina State, where he was a good athlete
and president of the student body. Mr. Van Sant, accompanied by his wife, moved to Raleigh, where they will make
their home. After six weeks of study in Michigan of the types and forms of the machinery which he will
handle, he will return to Raleigh, and take an active role in the routine of the firm. As yet, no
successor has been appointed to fill Mr. Van Sant’s place. The work has been divided and is being done under
the supervision of college officials.

PROFESSOR WOOD ILL IN STATESVILLE SANATORIUM

The student body and many friends of Prof. W. W. Wood will be glad to know that he is rapidly
recovering after having his appendix removed at a hospital in Statesville. Professor Wood was taken ill last Tuesday and on
Wednesday, after consultations with doctors, it was decided that an operation was necessary.

CALENDAR
Thursday—
Wildcat Wrestling Team vs. N. C. State College at Raleigh.
7:15—Phi Literary Society.
7:15—EuLiterary Society.
Friday—8:00—Durham Elks vs. D.C. at Davidson.
Saturday—Wildcat Wrestlers vs. Naval Academy at Annapolis.
Sunday—
9:15—C.E.-T.C.
2:30—Ministerial Band.
6:15—Y. Vesper.
7:00—Volunteer Band.
Monday—
Tuesday—D.C. vs. Charlotte.
7:15—Par Literary Society.
7:15—Met Literary Society.
Wednesday—
7:00—Dormitory Bible Classes.
Court of Control.

Dr. MacConnell, it was announced, will visit Charlotte Y at Charlotte.

Five Deputations Visit Neighboring Churches
Ministerial Band Sends Out Four and C.E.T.C. Has One Deputation

The Ministerial Band was represented by four deputations and the Christian Endeavor Training Class by one deputation last Sunday. Archie
Ray and Forrest Franklin composed a deputation to Caldwell Memorial Presbyterian Church. Both speakers addressed the Sunday School during the
morning and also gave short talks on life work at a joint meeting of the three Christian Endeavor societies in
the evening.

Piggy Martin headed a deputation composed of the quartet: Martin, Lowrance, Wilson, and Lockhart. Ben Ratchford was also a member
of the deputation. This deputation visited the Church of the Covenant in Greensboro, a church which Martin served in the
Young People’s Department last summer. Martin spoke at the regular church services. The quartet rendered special music, and Ratchford spoke
to the Christian Endeavor societies.

The Sunday School and church services at Shearer Chapel were attended by Patterson, Gibbs, and Simms who taught in the
Sunday School, and Bowie who spoke at the church service.

Six members of the Christian Endeavor Training class, Hodgkin, Garrison, Bridges, Haney, Steele, and Duke, visited the Christian Endeavor society
at Cornelius. Each speaker gave a short talk, the program consisting of a comparison of Christian Endeavor to an automobile.

Willard Thomas, representing the Ministerial Band, spoke at the Thomasboro Presbyterian Church Sunday morning. He was speaking in his home
church and spoke upon Light and Darkness, touching upon Bible history and modern application.

A fragment of corroded watch chain said to have been taken from the body of Davy Crockett, where it was
driven by a Mexican bullet at the Alamo, was accidentally discovered in the Austin College library, where it had been
lost for sixty-odd years. This may result in a museum of historical relics at the college, if hopes of certain
authorities and friends are realized.—The Kangaroo.

Accompanied by Mrs. Wood, he was carried to Long’s Sanatorium in Statesville, where he was successfully operated upon Thursday morning.
It is expected that he will be back in his home in a few days and he said that he
would start meeting his classes in about three weeks. Professor Wood is an instructor of Applied Math and Astronomy, and
has been on the faculty at Davidson for a number of years. He is one of the most popular members
of the faculty.

Since 1868
THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES
GOOD SHOES
STYLISH SHOES

Every Davidsonian wants to be well shod all the time. Good weather or bad, for stunts or classes, there’s no
feeling quite so satisfactory as the feeling that “I look all right.” Gilmer-Moore Shoes assure you of that feeling. Always
good looking, always stylish.

GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE
SHOES
LUGGAGE

Earn While You Learn
COLLEGE

Students of ability can make good money in their spare time acting as our representatives. We have a clean-cut proposition
that insures a steady income during college and after graduation, if desired. Write for details, without obligating yourself.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N.C.
H. B. GUNTER
Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.
