4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE........Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN........Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. F. SMITH........Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON........Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK........Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. SIMPSON........Peanut Parcher Editor
H. B. PRICE........Associate Editor
W. H. BRANCH........Associate Editor
H. T. SHAW........Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS........Alumni Editor
Athletic Editor

Business Staff
J. A. THOMPSON........Circulation Manager
T. C. McSWAIN........Subscription Manager
C. R. HUNTER........Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON........Service Manager
W. H. LYNCH........Typist

Reporters’ Club
L. B. GIBBS, President
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres.
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
C. R. ANDERSON
M. APPLEBY
M. AUSTIN
C. L. BRAGAW
V. S. BROYLES
D. M. CALHOUN
W. T. COVINGTON
W. T. DAVIS
C. M. EDDINGTON
F. T. FRANKLIN
L. L. DECK
W. S. WOODS
J. M. GARRISON
J. De GLADWEN
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
J. LAWS
W. H. LYNCH
R. H. McILWAINE
GARNETT McMILLAN
J. E. MOORE
C. C. MURCHISON
R. B. PARKER
E. K. REGEN
J. B. THOMPSON

EDITORIAL

Three straight from Duke.
A successful basketball season.
We won Monday night despite the pre-game verdict of the editor of the Trinity Chronicle who said in the January
14 issue: “Last to Beat Trinity; first to trim Duke,” raves the sport editor of The Davidsonian. We let him
rave on in his bliss and “Give all the Glory to Old Davidson,” and then settle back with satisfied ease
to await his howls of despair when the overbold Wildcats venture into the cage of the Blue Devils at Durham.

To most of the student body, the new term comes as a relief from the grind of examinations. Many of
the Seniors find that it merely marks the end of a delightful twelve-day holiday. All good things have to end
sometime, and after the restful vacation, better work should be the result.

We congratulate Bill Story on being the first to solve the first Davidsonian crossword puzzle. After a lapse of two
weeks, during the exam period, we offer another twister for solution this week.

For the first time, Davidson will meet a Western team in debate when the Michigan A. and M. debaters include
Davidson on their Southern tour early in April. Wake Forest is also on the spring debating schedule.

Everyone is anxiously awaiting the first term reports which will be drifting out of the office for the next week
or ten days. The interest is widespread, ranging from those who wonder if they passed enough to stay, to the
students who are hoping to squeeze over the 95 mark onto the honor roll.

University the middle of last month. All sixteen of the men receiving letters make their home within the Old North
State. Six states are represented by the nineteen players who won the “D” last fall. North Carolina leads the list
with thirteen, and Alabama comes second with two, and Georgia, Florida, South Carolina, and West Virginia, each had one man
on the roster.

WHOSE RESPONSIBILITY?

The problem of class attendance is one with which every college student is concerned as it relates to each of
us personally. The question, as it presents itself to the rule-makers of educational institutions, is to decide on whom the
responsibility of acquiring an education should really fall. Should the student be allowed to exercise his own discretion as to
whether he shall or shall not attend class; should the authorities make a rigid rule against all cuts, or ought
not a middle course to be followed.

It is recognized that regulation of some kind is necessary, and colleges which placed no restriction on men leaving home
for the first time, would deserve severe censure. Certainly, during the first two years of his college course, a boy,
being less developed and less able to see for himself the need of application in scholastic work, should not have
the responsibility of an education placed entirely on him, allowing him to go to class or not as he will.
And even in the upper classes, there are many who fail to see their responsibility. Those, however, who are doing
satisfactory work in their classes, who recognize their responsibility, might well be allowed some privileges in regard to class attendance,
for they are the class of students who will be less likely to abuse such a privilege.

At Chapel Hill, such a plan is being tried with seeming success. Juniors and Seniors who average above 90 in
all their classes are allowed the privilege of voluntary class attendance. The plan is outlined in a news story from
Chapel Hill dated February 1:

CHAPEL HILL, Feb. 1.—Fifty Juniors and Seniors at the University of North Carolina who have shown special distinction by making
an average grade as high as “B,” or 90 to 95 percent, in all their studies, have been designated members
of the “Dean's List,” which gives them the privilege of voluntary class attendance. This is an innovation in the College
of Liberal Arts, made possible by a vote of the faculty which thus amended the class attendance rules. This plan,
which is in vogue in a similar form in some other institutions, is aimed “to provide incentives to better scholarship
to carry these students beyond the performance of their tasks merely for the task’s sake. It is an attempt to
throw the responsibility of doing their work well upon a group which has shown that it may be trusted. Students
will remain on the “Dean's List” only so long as they maintain the standing of “B.”

“This is not an invitation to cut classes,” Dean James F. Royster, of the College of Liberal Arts, warns the
men thus honored, “It means rather that you are placed upon your own responsibility in the matter of class attendance
and that the question of class absence rests with you and your instructors.”

The plan, as is stated in the story, aims to throw the responsibility of doing their work well upon a
group of men which has already shown that they can be trusted. It is not a plan which allows the
men to neglect their work, as if their grade drops below “B” they are automatically dropped from the list, and
come once more under the rules which apply to the rest of the student body.

Such a plan seems to combine both reward for good work, and a means of placing the responsibility where it
really should belong, if love of learning were the ruling motive in coming to college in every case. That is
the Utopia which, however, never can be reached.

In the same problem comes up the question of deducting points from a grade because of infractions of attendance rules.
Suppose one man has either cut a class, or has more than the allotted number of excused absences in a
subject. His term grade is turned in at 70 or perhaps a point above the zero line. A cut or
four or more excused absences stand against his name. It makes no difference that the absences were excused, a point
comes off, and the result is a 69 and failure. Probably, he has done just as good or better work
than the other fellow who gets 70 and has only three excused absences. Anyway, his professor thought that he deserved
to pass just as well as the other fellow.

The system mentioned above, which has been introduced at Carolina, would have nothing to do with this.

Open Forum

Chaff

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will
express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from
publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The
Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

ALUMNI INFLUENCE

Many lively discussions have resulted from the recent scathing and condemning censure of a certain class of American college alumni
by Charles Russ Richards, president of Lehigh University and a graduate of Purdue. His remarks, relative to the encouragement of
graft in athletics and of drinking of liquors.by college alumni, by undergraduate students, have been prominently printed in America’s largest
newspapers; and the annual dinner of the New York Association of Western Conference Universities have resulted in a furor of
interest among college students, professors, trustees, and alumni. Vigorous informal discussions arose after the charges were made last Saturday evening
by Dr. Richards, who condemned the “damning influence” of college graduates in a brief address. Dr. Richards was promptly criticized
by many for his remarks, and the interest immediately manifested by graduates of Western Conference Universities has spread rapidly throughout
the country. Dr. Richards spoke briefly, but without mincing his words; and his views seem well-founded in view of the
recent attitude taken by many college alumni associations, especially in regard to athletics. The more important objections of Dr. Richards
are contained in the following pointed paragraphs, taken from his address:

“Very largely through alumni, intercollegiate athletics have been so prostituted as to render them positively undesirable in their effects upon
the general character and the code of ethics of college students. When in order to secure winning teams our athletics
are subsidized by one device or another, and the spirit of graft and hypocrisy is thus openly and flagrantly encouraged,
the college boy is led to believe that anything is right if you can get by with it. Men thus
educated will be more dangerous to society than the uneducated grafter or crook.

“Again, the alumni constitute one of the most serious menaces to the development and maintenance of proper moral standards among
students. Many college students today seem inclined to go to greater excesses in the use of intoxicating liquors than in
the past. College officers are doing everything in their power to create a proper restraint against these evils, but their
task is rendered vastly more difficult when alumni of a fraternity carry liquor into the fraternity house and when it
seems necessary that every alumni dinner or reunion be sufficiently wet to supply the stimulus for what is regarded as
a hilarious time.”

Davidson and the other colleges, whose alumni associations are interested in athletics but not to the extreme of urging “graft
and hypocrisy” in securing better athletics; and whose graduates not only abide by the college regulations forbidding the use of
intoxicating liquors on the premises of the campus, but use their influence to discourage the additional stimulus of intoxicating liquors
among the undergraduate students, may well consider themselves fortunate. The steadily mounting tendency among followers of college sports, who see
in the encouragement of professionalism in intercollegiate athletics a great menace to the prestige and benefits of amateur contests, has
been noted. Dr. Richards has “hit the nail on the head,” and it seems time that more college enthusiasts were
adopting his views.

W. H. B.

OF INTEREST TO WOMEN

Mr. Beenam Boggs delightfully entertained the Bookhater’s Club with a dinner-dance at the Wayward Inn Roadhouse in Mt. Mourne last
Tuesday evening. Tables were for two but the alarm clock was set for two-thirty.

Mr. Nick Sappenfield and a bunch of other crooks rambled over to Corncob in a Ford last Sunday and reported
that they had a rattlin’ good time. Messrs. J. P. Smith and Harry Vance, needing a few dumbbells, went down
to the Home for Infirm.

Mr. Wilbur Hogskin reproachfully denounces the approaching marriage of his roommate and sidekick, Sis Sloan, to Mr. Hank Sedberry, of
Hawkshaw’s Corner.

Few have the stability to do their best when untrammeled by laws of restraint—constructive laws. Both in grades and absences,
the responsibility must be placed somewhere. It is interesting to note the present-day trend.

C. RAYMOND McCARTY CORRESPONDENCE CLUB
P. O. Box Jaybirdsville, N. C.
Confidential Satisfaction Romance References Anytime

Mr. Roland Brice Parker, 305 West Dormitory, P. O. Box 793, Davidson College, Davidson, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.

My dear friend:

I was indeed glad to receive your letter this morning, and I believe you are sincere and earnest in your
intentions of joining my correspondence club. Therefore, I will give you full particulars. My sole intention in organizing this club
back in 1785 was for the purpose of aiding such fellows and ladies as you say you are. I am
putting forth my efforts entirely to help the poor, unfortunate, downcast, exasperated bits of humanity who have no friends and
who wish to aid the minister by paying him the usual fee of two rocks and a pebble. Believing you
to be one of the above-mentioned party, I wish to help you. I hope that you will write to me
by return mail and give me the type of girl that you hold as your ideal. I have on my
list girls who are fair, beautiful, pretty, adorable, exquisite, sweet, flapperish, poor, rich, shy, fat, skinny, plump, thin, red-headed, peroxide,
dirty blondes, or any which you may wish to become acquainted with. I also have a pretty young widow who
is the sole heir to forty thousand dollars, if that will interest you. Knowing that I will be able to
suit your taste, I await with interest your reply which I shall expect by return mail. Just put $7.50 in
the enclosed envelope and I will do the rest.

Yours sincerely,
C. R. McCARTY,
“The friend of all boys from South Carolina.”

STOP—LOOK—SEE ME

Do you wish to become famous? Would you like to hold the whole world in the palm of your hand?
If so, just see me at once. I have the secret to success. My plan is guaranteed to work without
fail. I have found the sure road to fortune, have traveled it over many times, and for a few paltry
dollars I will lead you to the heights of publicity and fame.

Just two weeks from today my famous correspondence course in table manners begins its spring term of instruction. In this
course, I will guarantee to show you how to eat spaghetti in fourteen lessons, and by the time the course
is finished you will be able to save a dry cleaner's bill every day and also keep from starving to
death. I will also train you to throw biscuits, salt-cellars, spoons, potatoes, peas, and even dishes of grits in such
a manner that you will completely change the facial expression and color of your victim every time. My scheme cannot
fail. It has worked for thousands, and it will work for you.

If my course is sent for within the next fourteen years I will send you free of all charge a
modern book of etiquette. Do you know how to be introduced? What do you do when you drop your plug
of tobacco on the ballroom floor? What is the correct method of suppressing a yawn while in the bathtub? Of
course, you don’t know. I want to teach you. I am the official representative of Sears, Roebuck and Co., otherwise
known as the “sit-up-and-rare-back” course in table etiquette. Sign the dotted line below and send me all the money that
you can get your hands on in a week and I will lead you to the peak of efficiency. College
boys are not allowed to take this course. See Hermif Alexander, 4th Floor East.

Mr. Clyde Long, the Indian Rubber boy, bounced around to see his girl last Friday morning. He got pulled and
she snapped back at him so he made a long stretch home.

Mr. Buckboard Shaw made a trip around the cinder path about two weeks ago. His friends expect him to be
out of the infirmary in about ten days. No flowers.

Mr. Kelly Woodham is able to be out after being shot seven times in the last ten days.

The Bull Session gang will meet with the fireman in the furnace-room parlors tonight at seven. Bring your razors.

For advertising space in the society columns, see anybody, anytime, anywhere, for anything. We don’t care.
