6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1925

Stronghold of Noblemen of the Wash House Cleft in Twain by Static Wave

Big Crowd of Men Out for Regular Baseball Drills

Considering the many diversions at this time of year, with basketball, spring football, and track, the first call to the
diamond was quite a success on last Friday afternoon. One of the most serious reversals known to the world at
large occurred at Davidson's expert de-buttoner plant very close to the last day in the second month of 1925. A
representative of the Livest Wireless on the Hill interviewed the foreman of the laundry and gathered a story somewhat as
follows, making it brief and as it is not.

On or about the tenth hour of the day, from the center of midnight, there fell upon said renovating plant
a complete reversal of policy. As customary, the pitchers and catchers have been putting in pre-season work, and when seen
by the wireless representative, should be in good shape when the fielders have been chosen to back up the batteries.
There were several of last year’s nine and newcomers to make the first day’s practice. And the number has been
increasing daily with regular practice.

With eight letter men as a nucleus, and several good prospects from last year’s Fresh team, and some stars of
past years returning to school, the outlook for this season's nine is promising. Captain Covington will no doubt keep the
third sack warm again this year; while Sion Alford will find some competition in Bob Glenn for short-stop. As yet
no one has shown up to contend with “Peewee” Simpson at second base. At first, Frank Alford, Abe Kugler, and
Kelley Woodham, captain of last year's Fresh team, are showing up well. Among those expected to show up in the
outfield are: Vance, Wells, and Davis. To twirl the horsehide are Laird, Oden, and Huie, with Kiser and Hampton coming
from the 1924 Fresh team. Kimbrough, a prospective pitcher of last year, will probably work in the outfield this year.
Sim Wrenn, who caught “Buck” Currie, Neely Hunter, Normand Shepherd, and Bill Miley in '21, is back this year and
is expected to keep his former “rep” at backstop. Summers, Black, and Hunter are also out as candidates for the
position of catcher.

Charlotte Alumni Hosts to Football Letter Men. Gold Footballs Presented to Players — Closer Relationship Suggested by Major James

The members of the varsity football squad were honor guests at the annual dinner given by the Mecklenburg Alumni Association
of Davidson College in Charlotte last Thursday night. Gold footballs were presented to the team by the association at the
dinner. Approximately 100 Davidson students and alumni were present at the banquet and enjoyed the good fellowship for about two
hours. The basketball team was to have been honor guests with the football squad at the dinner, but Coach Younger
decided it was best to give the boys their frugal fare and take them to the auditorium.

Benefactor of Davidson Visits and Makes Tour of Inspection of Hill

J. B. Duke, noted financier and recent benefactor of Davidson, made a brief visit to the campus last Thursday. The
visit of Mr. Duke to Davidson was extremely brief, only several hours, due to Mr. Duke's many urgent duties elsewhere.
Mr. Duke's visit was unknown to the majority of the students until he had left. A party composed of Mr.
Duke, Mrs. McIlwaine, and Dr. Hardin made a tour of the campus. The different buildings were pointed out to Mr.
Duke and the future plans explained. Shortly afterward the party returned to Charlotte. Mr. Duke promised that he would visit
again soon.

It seems that the trouble arose in the electric department. The volts being retarded placed the blame on watts and
immediately attempted to kilowatts. When the watts saw the vicious intention of the volts they at once turned in a
riot call to Delta connection. Authorities at Delta connection climbed on the induction motor and shunted the current. Arriving at
the scene of action they saw the great menace to society represented in the revolting volts and immediately blew their
fuses into ten thousand amperes. Applying electromotive force to the de-energized volts, it was found that their stationary torques had
ceased to beat. No inquest was deemed advisable. Ohms were collected among armatures residing at Delta connection and the recording
wattmeter took complete charge of the would-be kilowatters, laying them to rest in the coils.

When the magnetic field was cleared of the expired volts it was found that the de-buttoner machine had thrown its
entire contents into the lap of the mangle. Eyewitnesses claim that the salvage of the buttons alone will more than
replace the volts, as well as covering all funds expended by the recording wattmeter. Stud Trawick is said to have
recovered a complete set of B. V. D. buttons, lost three years ago. All unidentified buttons will be sold at
auction to cover damages. Another pitiable scene, that the flux of the magneto was cut in half, was the great
load of helpless socks that was thrown into the heartless interior of the extractor. It is said that not a
sock came out alive, even the holes were completely liquidated.

Out of the 622 1-2 shirts that were waiting to have their necks shrunk, only 79 2-3 were left to
tell the tale. A suit of pajamas was thrown 60 feet, landing flat on their back, completely torn in two.
The entire list of sheets and handkerchiefs was turned inside out by the sudden reversal. A squad of R. O.
T. C., standing inspection for well-sewed-on buttons at the time of the catastrophe, was thrown into a panic and immediately
beat a retreat. It is said by military authorities that these shirts will each get fourteen years at Atlanta Federal
Prison. They will be tried under the 95th A. W. for conduct unbecoming a shirt parade.

Mr. Helper assured the interviewing representative that the damage had been completely restored, new parts for the different phases installed,
and things are now going at their usual rate of efficiency. Patrons may expect the usual quality of work on
shirts and all other flat work.

FORENSIC COUNCIL (Continued from page 1)

If, in the finals, a change in sides is necessary for one of the teams, this shall be arranged by
the Forensic Council. The medallist will be chosen from the winning team in the final debate. The Freshman Declaimer’s contest
will be held May 13. Each society is entitled to two representatives in the finals. These eight men must be
chosen before May 6. All Freshman members of the societies are eligible for these teams.

The Essayist’s contest, which has been allowed to lapse by some of the societies, will also be an inter-society affair.
The members of any of the four classes may enter this contest. The only restrictions are that the essays submitted
must be between 1,200 and 3,000 words in length and must be handed to either Gibbs, Freeland, Ratchford, or Parker,
before May 1. A faculty committee will adjudge the winner. The dates announced for these various contests can be changed
only at the discretion of the Forensic Council, and the society whose representatives have not been chosen or who are
unprepared on the scheduled dates will in all probability forfeit their rights as contestants.WILL FLOCK HERE TRUSTEES BOARD DECIDE

(Continued from page 1)

pleted a year’s post-graduate work in the University of Chicago this spring. All are Davidson graduates.

This was Mr. Duke’s first visit to the college, and he seemed very greatly interested and impressed by the work
being done here. This trip was made primarily by Mr. Duke for the purpose of acquainting himself better with the
plant here. The party drove down Dormitory Row, by the athletic field, and the gym. Mr. Duke seemed immensely pleased
with the progress made on New Chambers as the party viewed the recently constructed wing of the building. After viewing
the campus, Mr. Duke made a brief talk, expressing his pleasure and stating that he would make another visit as
soon as circumstances permitted him to do so.

Dr. Oren Moore, retiring president of the association, proved to be a most efficient toastmaster. Dr. McKay presented the footballs
on behalf of the Alumni Association, and Jim Hendrix accepted them for the squad with an appropriate speech. Dr. J.
M. Douglas, graduate manager of athletics at Davidson, made a brief talk, followed by a short talk by Major A.
L. James, who spoke on the need for co-operation between Charlotte and Davidson College and made several suggestions to that
effect. Among those suggestions was that of having two banquets a year in Charlotte, at which the Charlotte alumni would
be hosts. He suggested that the entertainment be for the freshman class, taking in those who were just entering the
institution, and for the senior class, those who were about to leave it after four years.

WILLIAM AND MARY

(Continued from page 1)

tionary days were visited, some of them being Jamestown, Williamsburg, and Yorktown. One feature of the convention was the plan
for a program of national extension. At present, there are 12 colleges and universities where the campus leaders are rewarded
by membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, the leading honorary fraternity with the sole exception of Phi Beta Kappa. Omicron Delta
Kappa is founded on a different basis from Phi Beta Kappa. While Phi Beta Kappa honors excellence in scholarship, Omicron
Delta Kappa honors excellence in other activities. To be elected to Omicron Delta Kappa, a man has to excel in
one line of activity and be a leader generally of thought and activity on the campus.

The Queens College orchestra entertained the diners with a variety of selections, winning hearty applause and admiration. The association adopted
a resolution thanking Mr. James B. Duke for his recent gift to Davidson, which will benefit the $40,000,000 endowment fund
created by the tobacco magnate. Another resolution extended thanks to the sporting editors of the two Charlotte papers for their
support of athletics at the college.

I. R. C. SENDS PARKER AND GUDGER

(Continued from page 1)

dent, Miss Thelma Peterson, first vice-president, C. M. Davis, of Clemson; second vice-president, R. B. Parker, of Davidson; corresponding secretary,
Miss Elsie Buckner, of Brenau; recording secretary, Miss Hazel Cubberley, of Randolph-Macon; treasurer, E. A. Harkom, of Wofford. The conference
went on record as being overwhelmingly in favor of the League of Nations and the World Court. Both Duke University
and Brenau College extended bids for next year’s convention, and by vote of the convention, Brenau’s invitation was accepted.

DAVIDSON TO LOCK HORNS WITH HICKORY HIGH TEAM

Next Saturday, March 7, the Wildcat eleven will go up against the Hickory team in the first game with an
outsider since the beginning of the spring practice.

HOW THEY STAND

School Won Lost Pct.
Carolina 7 0 1.000
Davidson 4 3 .572
Wake Forest 4 5 .444
State 2 3 .400
Duke 1 6 .143

Miss Eloise Martin is visiting friends in Columbia, S. C. During her absence, Mrs. Harriot Elliot has been teaching Miss
Martin’s grade pupils.

Champion Electric Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town
Shoes Repaired While U Wait
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

Have you hooked yours yet? Hundreds of young fellows have already “got theirs.” But that’s no sign there’s not hundreds---yes,
thousands of them---left. And more coming in every day. Better drop in and pick out yours now so you'll get
the full season’s benefit out of it.

“AN ASSURANCE OF CORRECTNESS”

Although Hickory is but a high school team, they are perfectly capable of giving most any team a good fight.
They were, without a doubt, the best prep team in the State last fall and are still in good trim,
regardless of the fact that they have lost two of their best men—Baldwin and Greene.

JUST THE THINGS FOR
Hobnailed Shoes, Army Breeches, Sox, Cotton or Wool Shirts
Army Salvage Company
Statesville, N. C.

Two appointments to full professorships were made, but names are withheld until it is known whether the appointees will accept.
One is in English for the session of 1926-27, and the other in religious education and social science. Dr. Frazer
Hood was given leave of absence for study and travel in Europe.

The faculty members and trustees were host to dinner from 1:30 to 2:30. This is the first time in the
history of the college that the officers and instructors were thus enabled to get together for such a social hour.

In the afternoon following the final session of the board, the visitors and a number of the faculty witnessed the
regular Wednesday afternoon parade of the Davidson College R. O. T. C. As a special feature of the military ceremonies,
Capt. George H. Weems and the officers of the battalion selected the best-trained squad from the four companies in competitive
drill and awarded medals to the winners.

The next stated meeting of the college authorities will be held in June.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men
