THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1925

INFIRMARY NEWS

The continued cold, wet weather has increased the cases of mild influenza in the college. Although there are no cases
of serious illness, the following students have been in the infirmary during the past week: R. H. White, Sam Summers,
C. F. McRae, H. G. Newson, E. H. Salter, A. F. McPhaul, and G. D. Edwards. W. C. Ramsey has
been suffering with a fractured ankle. Bill tried to climb Watts in a “human fly” stunt, but he had hard
luck.

Champion Electric Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town
Shoes Repaired While U Wait
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

The Blue Front Store
Feeds Fancy Groceries
H. M. JOHNSTON
PHONE 20

WRIGLEY'S
After every meal
A pleasant and agreeable sweet and a l-a-s-t-i-n-g benefit as well. Good for teeth, breath, and digestion. Makes the next
cigar taste better. Sealed in its Purity Package.
WRIGLEY'S
SPEARMINT
PERFECT GUM

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

How They Are Kissed

The Brenau girl bows her stately head,
And fixes her stylish lips
In a firm, hard way—and lets 'em go
And sips, and sips, and sips.

The Columbia girl has a way of her own,
In a clinging, soulful way;
She takes a kiss that’s just as big
As a wagon load of hay.

The Converse girl gets a grip on herself
And carefully takes off her hat;
Then grabs the man in a frenzied way
Like a terrier shaking a rat.

The Chicora girl just arches her eye,
So cool—so cold—so glum;
She sticks out her lips like an open book,
And keeps on chewing gum.

But the Winthrop girl never says a word,
She's too gentle, timid, and tame;
But she grabs a young man by the back of the neck,
And gets there just the same.

Preacher McCarty will now exasperate us with that Jew’s harp solo, entitled, “Ikey, turn on the green light, the man
no like the blue suit.”

The reparations committee on mudslinging will offer a reward of one hand-engraved, engine-turned, silk potato masher to the person discovering
how many wings a boarding-house chicken possesses.

Ed Wilson is so dumb that he thinks the Golddust Twins are millionaires.

“Stop!” said the pretty young maiden as she slammed on the brakes; “you've gone far enough.”

Dark Cloud—“Boy, how’s your sick cow?”
Another D. C.—“She's worse; the doctor has just left, and he said her temperature was 102.”

“The poor we have always with us,” remarked the professor as he handed Laws’ review paper back to him.

John T. McSwain in his home town—“There’s lots to our little town.”
Bart Hall—“Yes, nothing else.”

Micky McAlpin wants to know who said that the professors led a fast life. He says that none of them
ever passed him.

Wood-Alcohol Brown has developed a mania for crossword puzzles, but he says that they are nothing new, for it has
always been a puzzle at his house to know how to get rid of the cross words.

P. Butterfield Freeland, although he was broke, bought a pair of white cotton socks, and after applying a little indelible
ink here and there, had a nifty pair of crossword socks.

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um! Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

He says that he thinks the college boys should begin wearing supporters again. “Why girls leave home,” said he, as
he strolled through the campus of the female college.

We advise you not to make fun of the boarding house coffee, for you may be old and weak yourself
some day.

If it takes a cross-eyed kangaroo one minute to eat an ounce of barley brew, how long will it take
a knock-kneed she gnat to play “Home, Sweet Home” on a nickel-plated, second-hand French harp?

Tain't no joke; just good sense:
“If you ain't got nothin’,
And your gal ain't got nothin’,
Don't try to be in a hurry to wed—
‘Cause nothin’ plus nothin’ gives nothin’.
And nothin’ don’t chew like bread.”

Who was the bird who said they didn’t have petting parties when he was a boy? They called them hay-rides,
then.

Love may be nothing but a chemical reaction, but, oh! aren't the laboratory experiments interesting?

The height of laziness is sleeping with your clothes on so you won't have to dress when the breakfast bell
rings, but we think the height of optimism is working a crossword puzzle with a fountain pen.

Professor (running up to the fire last Sunday morning)—“Oh, it’s just a bonfire, isn’t it?”
Hebe Mellwaine—“No, sir, it’s a BARNFIRE.”

A farmer from way back in the country where they think an aeroplane is a carpenter’s tool, had made quite
a little money, and had decided to take a trip to Europe. After the...boat had been gone from port about
half a day, a storm came up. The farmer, walking down the deck, met a man who said, “The sea's
pretty rough, isn’t it?” “Yeah, but it would be a whole lot smoother if the darned captain would stay in
the furrows.”

Joe (apologizing for profuse clarinet practice) — "God made day to work and practice. That's why I practice clarinet all
day.” Check — "But the devil made the clarinet.”

Library News

This list of books which the librarian has compiled for the use of the students will be completed in the
next issue:

Personal and Religious
824 Cabot, R. C. Cll What Men Live By 1914
179 IbyAIAY, Sy, S), D79 Thoughts of Youth 1922
179 Elliott, H. S. 1914 46 Student Standards of Action
248 Harper, W. A. H29 Making of Men 1915
248 Peabody, Francis G. 1911 P35s Sunday Evenings in the College Chapel
248 Peabody, Francis G. 1907 P35 Mornings in the College Chapel
248 Speer, Robert Elliott S74m Marks of a Man 1907
248 Speer, Robert Elliott Sl4s Stuff of Manhood 1917
204 Torrey, R. A. T69 Talks to Men 1904
828 Van Dyke, Henry 1903 V248 Not In the Curriculum

Social Life
808.6 Clark, T. A. C59 When You Write a Letter 1921
395 Dana, Marvin 19224 D169 Encyclopedia of Etiquette and Culture
808.5 Edmunds, P. 1914 E88 Toasters’ Handbook
808.5 Mosher, Marion D. M91 More Toasts 1922

Davidson Fire Fighters

The president was very much depressed by the burning, but at a student body meeting the following morning he told
the students that classes would be held and Davidson College would continue to function despite the disaster.

Palatial Mansion of Milch Cow Is "FanwBate sty" a. Raleigh Flames Brighten Sky

Captain George and his noble band of firemen were called into action for the first time in 1925 at the
big conflagration in the wee small hours of last Sunday morning. But their heroic efforts were in vain; the magnificent
edifice that once beautified the grounds in the rear of the dormitories and housed the cream-colored producer of lac-

One of the most striking examples of heroism and bravery was the risking of his life into the burning ruins.
At the risk of his own life, he woke the peaceful bovine, the lone occupant, from her repose, and, by
superhuman efforts, pulled her by the tail out of the falling ruins. This brave and noble hero was amply rewarded
by the gentle and grateful caress of the cow after her rescue.

When the fire first started, the general report was that every dormitory on the Hill was afire. Many of the
inhabitants of Georgia, Watts, and Rumple, were ready to throw all of the contents of their rooms out of the
windows or through the doors. One bright Fresh, Ben Alderman, in the excitement of the moment, madly threw all of
his possessions into his trunk, locked it, and was ready to heave it out of the window, when he discovered
the true source of the fire. After the heat of excitement, and the fire, complications began; Ben discovered that not
only his shirts, socks, ties and other articles necessary for the raiment of the male, but also his keys, were
sealed and locked in his trunk.

There are many rumors current on the Hill now as to the origin of the fire, but the one that
is most prevalent is this: Shorty Love, being much impressed by the picture at the gym Saturday night, went to
his room to recline in restful slumber and dream of a happier ending to the film. But dreams, aided and
abetted by the enormous helpings of beef hash that he had inhaled at supper, proved too much for Shorty. He
thought that Davidson, too, was being turned back to the Indians and that it was his duty to see that
the city of Davidson was nothing but ruins when they returned to claim their own. He proceeded, so some claim,
to set fire to the barn, but being brought back to his senses by the glare, he allowed his arson
to end there. Shorty, in an interview, remained silent on the question, but his friends deny the report.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

SLOAN’S CLEANERS & DYERS
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Dyeing Repairing Dry Cleaning Pressing
NEW PLANT PROMPT SERVICE

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers In Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

Victrolas Furniture, Rugs Victor Records Steinway Pianos Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms Society Halls, Etc.
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Player Piano Rolls
