THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 2, 1925

PAM INIT NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men

R. O. T. C. News
Several National Guard and Regular Army Officers were invited by the R. O. T. C. Department of Davidson to inspect the military training at the school. Among the distinguished officers that were invited were General Craig, the Adjutant-General of South Carolina; Major Gordon Smith, assistant to the Adjutant-General; Colonel A. A. Parker, and the head of the National Guard of North Carolina. This same group of officers inspected the National Guard in Charlotte on Wednesday night.

Sergeant Elmer Pritchard, who has been at Davidson for the past two years, has been transferred to the 22nd Infantry at Fort McPherson, Ga., where he can be nearer a government hospital in order to get medical treatment. Sergeant Van E. Smith, formerly of Company D, 22nd Infantry, is now stationed here at Davidson. Sergeant Smith is a native of Silver Point, Tenn., being a graduate of Cookeville High School.

The Military department has received orders from Washington, assigning First Lieut. Robt. C. Beckett to the R. O. T. C. department at Davidson. Lieutenant Beckett has just completed two years of service in the Philippines. At present, he is in California. Lieutenant Beckett is expected to arrive about the first of May, coming by way of the Panama Canal and New York.

Mrs. L. R. Brady spent a few days in Davidson last week before going to Crossnore where she will help Mrs. Sloop in the work at the high school there.

SECOND SMOKER IS HELD FOR SENIORS
On Tuesday evening, March 24, the Senior class held its second smoker of the year. With Piggy Martin as toastmaster, the class of ’25 gathered around the banquet table to attend to matters relative to commencement, and to recall again the pleasant memories of their college days before they leave their Alma Mater.

After the class song and "O Davidson," they were entertained with humorous and impromptu talks by Popsy Hunt, Goat Lewis, Chong McIlwaine, Tom Staley, and G. D. Rogers. Harry Price announced the “Y” meeting as held this week and urged the Seniors to be present at every meeting if possible. Joe Earnest was on hand with his trusty guitar and delighted his audience with several selections.

Dr. Fraser Hood discussed the proper costume for the faculty and Seniors at commencement and suggested that the Seniors wear hoods to offset the sombre background of the cap and gown. Professor Wachter delivered a very forceful and inspiring speech in which he discussed Davidson as an ideal Alma Mater and the relation she bears to her sons.

BLUE PENCIL GIVES BID
(Continued from page 1)
The following two numbers: a review of Capek’s play, “R. U. R.,” and a short story by J. B. Gallent, called “Old Bones.” Blue Pencil is especially interested this spring in the study and production of short stories and one-act plays, and several of both types have been...

Davidson College—Queens Campaign
Queens College, in Charlotte, is launching her campaign for $300,000 endowment this week. This endowment is to enable the college to overcome the final obstacle in the way of recognition by the Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools of the Southern States. To continue to grow and develop and render service, Queens College must have this endowment.

Under the control of the Southern Presbyterian Church, there are six accredited colleges for the education of men; there is not a single accredited college for women. During the Davidson College Campaign to rebuild historic old Chambers Hall and to increase the endowment, Queens girls subscribed generously. Now the opportunity is being offered to Davidson men to reciprocate. And Davidson men will respond to the appeal of their sister college.

C. F. Monk is Elected to Editorship of Magazine
Will Elect Supporting Staff Within Next Few Weeks According to Announcement
Chester F. Monk was elected to edit the Davidson College Magazine for next year on the first ballot of the student body election last Wednesday. The other two men nominated by the publications committee were Hamp C. Lawson and Ed O’Connor. The supporting staff will be decided on within the next week. It has not been decided...Yet whether there will be one, two, or four issues next year. The debt that the magazine was burdened with at the beginning of this year has been paid and there is no large debt on the magazine at present. It is the aim of the editor for next year to keep it on a sound financial basis in whatever they undertake. The magazine will start next year with practically no debt and the editor plans to keep it that way.

Before attending Davidson, Chester Monk attended the University of Georgia for one year. In his first year here, he made the reporters’ club and did most of his work on the Davidsonian. In his sophomore year, he was awarded Golden Quill and was connected with the business staff of the magazine. This year, he was on the business staff of the magazine and also had one essay printed in it. Besides his literary work, Monk is popular in the various other branches of student activities, being in the Dramatic Club, assistant cheerleader, a member of the Court of Control, biology assistant, and several other places of honor. He was assistant managing editor of the Davidsonian this year and was one of three men nominated by the publications committee to edit it next year. Vice-President of the sophomore class of last year was also one of the honors attained by him. Moultrie, Ga., that well-known city that has produced several leaders on the Davidson campus, claims him as another one of her illustrious sons.

Miss M. G. Ellinwood will return to Davidson sometime this week from an extended visit to Washington, D. C.

Wildcat Hall of Fame
DWIGHT MOODY CHAMBERS
Basketball

Among the niches in the Wildcat Hall of Fame, there is one that is carved conspicuously. Dwight Chalmers, during his four years at Davidson, was among the most prominent in the campus activities. His popularity is attested by the numerous offices that he held. He played class basketball his first two years and was captain of his class team the second year. The third year, he played varsity basketball and the fourth year was captain of the varsity. Dwight was a versatile player and the pride of his fellow schoolmates.

However, though he was an outstanding athlete, it was more his interest and social activity that placed Dwight among the leaders. A forceful orator and an interesting speaker, he won several debating and oratorical medals. He was president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, a member of the Davidsonian staff, magazine staff, Board of Control, and was assistant baseball manager his junior year. During his senior year, he was rewarded for his diligence by being selected as president of the class.

Besides his many activities and the various applications of his time, Dwight proved himself to be an earnest student and attained the high honor of making the honor roll his junior year, and was taken into that select group of students that each year win that covetous honor, O. D. K. Dwight was an all-round student. He won no glory on the football field or baseball diamond but distinguished himself by his social and scholastic activity with the basketball court as his place of physical endeavor.

The Young Matrons’ Club held their regular meeting at the home of Mrs. K. J. Foreman last Friday afternoon. The program was mainly musical, with several selections being played on the piano by Mrs. Elliot. After the meeting, the husbands came as a surprise and helped to dispose of the tasteful refreshments.