THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 19, 1925

Five Members Chosen by Alpha Phi Epsilon Chapter at Davidson

Local Professor and Men of Sophomore and Junior Classes Honored

The Phi Chapter of Alpha Phi Epsilon, the national honorary forensic fraternity at Davidson, has made the following elections from
members of the student body and faculty this year: from the rising Junior class: C. W. Williams, L. D. Wharton,
and D. H. Stewart; H. L. Shaw from the Junior class; and from the faculty, Prof. Carl Wachter. The initiations
were held at the meeting last Thursday night, March 12.

The membership, which is limited to Juniors and Seniors among the student body, consisted, up until the last initiation, of
eleven student members and three of the faculty. The fraternity was founded at the University of Alabama some years ago
and today has over twenty chapters throughout the country. It is the leading national debating fraternity in the United States.
The Phi chapter at Davidson, which was formerly the Gavel and Forum Club, petitioned and received its charter in the
fall of ’23 and since that time has proved itself to be a useful and honored organization on the Davidson
campus.

The primary object of the fraternity is to promote debating and public speaking. The chapter here has done some excellent
work among the literary societies and various organizations on the Hill. Notable among the accomplishments of the fraternity at Davidson
last year was the introduction of the Congressional method of debating into the several literary societies here.

LAST WEEK’S ANSWERS

Horizontal
1—Baal. 2—Asa. 5—Rams. 9—Slo. 10—Una. 12—Atlanta. 15—Loak. 18—Love. 20—Sea. 21—Mad. 22—Suey. 24—Mend. 26—Fag. 28—Alabama. 33—Lag. 34—Lege. 35—Apex.

Vertical
3—Alt. 4—Loll. 5—Runt. 6—Ant. 7—Gala. 8—Girl. 11—Tree. 13—Ail. 16—Ose. 17—Key. 18—Lam. 19—Ode. 22—Suey. 23—Tab. 25—Dodo. 26—Fats. 27—Bat. 29—Lag. 30—Map. 31—Ape.

INTEREST GROWS IN WORLD-WIDE DISCUSSION GROUPS

The world problem discussion groups, fostered by the Y. M. C. A., are being enjoyed by the students this year
more than usual. As no set course is being given this term, a list of approximately forty problems were submitted
to the leaders, who chose six problems to be discussed during the six weeks of meetings. For the last three
weeks on each Wednesday night, these groups have been meeting. There are twenty-six leaders, each being assigned a floor in
one of the dormitories. The leader decides on the room in which the meeting will be held and invites all
the men on his floor to take part in the discussion. The leaders report that interest in these groups is
growing with each meeting.

The problem for discussion on March 11 was "Why is Christianity the only religion that will maintain world peace?" In
the discussion of this problem, many new thoughts were brought out. The object of these groups is to get every
man to take part in the discussion and get a broader vision of world problems. These meetings will be held
on Wednesday nights for the next three weeks at nine-thirty. The leaders are: L. M. McCutcheon, D. H. Stewart, W.
A. Christian, E. P. O'Conner, Willard Thomas, Hugh Wells, E. K. Regen, G. M. Eddington, R. B. Parker, J. E.
Holshouser, M. B. Spier, C. W. Williams, W. W. Purdy, R. W. Graves, P. M. Patterson, H. G. Goodykoontz, R.
D. White, W. H. Allison, A. Y. Bowie, T. C. Barr, W. C. Green, F. A. Hopkins, B. U. Ratchford,
J. M. Appleby, and R. S. Wilson.

R. O. T. C. News

The Charlotte Observer expects to have a page given over to the military organizations of the state in the near
future. There will be a short history of the R. O. T. C. at Davidson, as well as similar topics
about similar units at other colleges.

The army is learning to depend a good deal on radio for publicity these days. Radio station ATo, of Fort
Bragg, N. C., has been on the air for several months giving a wave length of 435 meters, broadcasting every
Thursday evening at 6 o'clock. Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind., will have the next army broadcasting station, known as Station WFBY—wave
length 158 meters.

It might be surprising to some to note that the aviators at Brooks Field, Tex., flew 3,292,357 man miles during
the last year. In October alone they flew 453,060 man miles.

In the 7th corps area, there are several scholarships to military academies that are offered to those who attend the
Citizen's Military Training Corps Camps. These scholarships are for sums varying from $100 up to $700. The only requirements are
that the applicant be able to show the necessary credits to enter the school whose scholarship he has, and that
he has never attended an essentially military school. This is quite an incentive to attendance at the C. M. T.
Camps.

Medical Officer (examining recruit)—"Have you any scars?"
Recruit—"No sir! But I have some Cigarettes."

THREE FORMER DAVIDSON STUDENTS (Continued from page 1)

possession of our souls, everything else is chaff which the wind driveth away. The speaker concluded with the beautiful quotation
from The Chambered Nautilus, “Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, etc.”

Dwight Chalmers took as his theme the very personal subject, "What Christianity Means To Me." "He that seeth me seeth
Him that sent me." "The center of Christianity is Christ—if Christ is real, then Christianity is real. Christianity is based
on Christ—of whose life little is known except that He was born in a stable, was a carpenter in early
life, a teacher for three years, and died on the cross. The case was cited in which Lew Wallace went
out to prove that Christ was not real, but came to judge above us."

National Oratoricals Draw Local Interest as Men Begin Working

Divisions for Contest and System for Judging Contest Announced Here

Local interest in the great National Oratorical Contest, which is being fostered by the Better American Association of California, seems
to be on the ascent. The entire country has been divided into seven districts or regions based upon geographical unity
and college enrollments. There are an average of 60,000 college students in each region. The northeastern region is composed of
the New England states; while the Empire state, New York, in itself, constitutes the northern region. Pennsylvania, New York, Delaware,
Maryland, the District of Columbia, and West Virginia make up the eastern region. The southern region consists of the southern
states while the central region takes up Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, and Michigan. The midwestern is comprised of ten western states;
and the Pacific region embraces Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Utah, California, New Mexico, Arizona, and Nevada.

The clearing centers for these regions, or the cities in which the semi-final contests will be held, are as follows:
New Haven, New York City, Nashville, Chicago, St. Louis, and San Francisco.

Much interest is being shown in the unique method in which the judging is to be conducted. There will be
two sets of judges, the first set will pass upon the manuscripts and select a winner from seven representatives from
each region. The manuscripts are due in Washington not later than April 17. The judges for the preliminary contest are
to be outstanding individuals living in or near the clearing centers. The judges for the final contest will be either
residents of Los Angeles or in the city at the time of the national finals. Institutions participating are invited to
make nominations of suitable speakers as judges.

Under this system, each orator, indicated by the mark or grade of 100, will be judged not simply according to
the relative merits of the speaker on that particular program.the conclusion ‘that He was real, with the result in “Ben
Hur.” Christ did none of those things which made others great; He was not a great poet, or warrior. He
achieved a perfect life in human surroundings so that when looking on Him the world may say, “Behold the Man.”
Jesus never made a false step—He never did what He should not have done. S. F. Bryant presided and led
the singing. With the low-point-total system and the odd number of judges, a permanent tie is impossible, and only one
ballot is necessary. It is interesting to note that the contestants are to appear in formal attire at both the
regional and final contests. He showed how that by studying the facts of Jesus’ life, people become like Him. He
compared this study with the well-known story, “The Great Stone Face,” and that by constant study one comes to bear
a likeness to the Saviour. By giving attention to Him, an individual is able to accomplish things by the power
of His presence.

Dunbar Ogden, of the class of '23, delivered an address to the Ministerial Band, Sunday. Although he made five speeches
during his short visit to the campus, this one was very inspiring. John 3:1-17 was the passage that he chose
for the basis of his talk. He brought out the fact that it is an absolute necessity that one have
complete possession of his own soul before he can possibly win people for Christ. He brought out in the course
of his talk that while a man might seem to be getting along well in his business and other walks
of life, there is a possibility of there being something close to his heart that is worrying him, pulling him
down. He gave as an example the life of Judas and compared him to a great oak that was blown
down in a storm. People did not know how such a slight wind could blow down so large a tree,
but upon investigation, it was found that the heart of the tree had been eaten away by a disease. The
heart of Judas had likewise been eaten away by sin when he betrayed his Lord.

The Christian Endeavor Training Class was fortunate in having Dwight Chalmers, who gave one of the most inspiring man-to-man talks
that has been delivered to the class. His thought was, “Everyone wants to be like Jesus” and “How can this
be accomplished?” He gave three ways of becoming like Jesus: by study, friendship, and personal relationship.

The Volunteer Band was addressed Sunday morning by Murdock McLeod, of Union Seminary, who used the First Psalm as a
basis for his talk. He showed that the man who builds his character upon Jesus Christ is the one that
will prosper.

MERRY SOPHS WILL GATHER
(Continued from page 1)
but other brief talks will be made by the presidents of the four classes and the principal student body officials.
Special musical numbers arranged for the evening’s program will include selections by a harmonica quintet, piano solos, and a fine
quartet composed of members of the class.

The same policy will be followed in regard to the national finals. The low-point-total system of judging rates every contestant
not according to some abstract idea of the perfect five. They are to rate the contestants on a scale of
one, two, three, four, five. With the low-point-total system and the odd number of judges, a permanent tie is impossible,
and only one ballot is necessary. It is interesting to note that the contestants are to appear in formal attire
at both the regional and final contests.

Literary Societies
Pandemic
After the society was called to order and the usual preliminaries of roll call, and the reading of the minutes
of the meeting were disposed of, a short program was presented. The subject for debate was, Resolved, That Congress should
adopt uniform marriage and divorce laws. In the discussion which followed, J. I. Moore, C. F. Monk, H. B. Price,
M. S. McIlwaine, C. D. Patterson and others took a prominent part. After the debate, a rule concerning Freshman punctuality
at the meetings was brought up, discussed, and passed.

Metrophilian
The Metrophilian Literary Society held its regular meeting last Tuesday evening in Phi hall. The debate, Resolved, That Congress should
be empowered to enact uniform divorce laws, was begun. The affirmative was upheld by J. M. Andrews and T. A.
Guiton. W. T. Covington and R. F. Thompson debated on the negative. The negative was awarded a 3-0 decision by
the judges. W. Trawick gave an excellent talk along scientific lines entitled A New Idea. The talk was much enjoyed
by everyone. After some business was transacted the meeting was adjourned until the next regular hour.

Eumenean
The program at the last regular meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society on the 12th was opposed by C. L.
Bragaw with an oration on Robert E. Lee. This was followed by a declamation, They Shall Not Pass, delivered by
R. A. Miller. The query for debate was, Resolved, That Congress should be empowered to enact uniform marriage and divorce
laws. The affirmative was supported by W. Grant and H. Boulware, the negative by J. F. Williams and R. A.
Duke. The judges decided in favor of the negative side.

Philanthropic
As the president participated in the debate, A. B. Williford, the vice-president, presided over the meeting of the Philanthropic Society
last week. L. E. Calhoun and Phillips upheld the affirmative and M. A. Morrison and Houck the negative of the
query, Resolved, That Congress should be empowered to enact uniform divorce laws. The decision of the judges was in favor
of the affirmative. Following this, B. U. Ratchford and J. C. Barrington engaged in an extemporaneous debate on the question,
Should manufacturers be encouraged to come to Davidson? Ratchford, upholding the affirmative, won the debate. A general discussion over the
question of introducing parliamentary procedure for a time terminated in disfavor of the project.

HIGH SCHOOL TEAMS
(Continued from page 1)
contest and all of the other schools are sending good numbers, and so the meet will be close and with
good weather some fast men are likely to be seen. The silver loving cup is given by the local track
authorities and the sole object is to encourage track in the high schools and colleges as this meet will be
official, and all of the men entering will have some experience. This is the first meet of this kind to
be held here, but if the results hold true to the present outlook it will likely become an annual attraction.

MALCOLM M. LOCKHART WILL BE SPEAKER AT “Y” SUNDAY
Mr. Malcolm M. Lockhart, Sr., will speak at the “Y” service next Sunday evening on the subject, The Miracle of
Revelation. Mr. Lockhart attended the University of Georgia and while there was on the Glee Club and was assistant editor
of the Annual. After the war he was the assistant National Director of the Armenian Relief Work. He is an
outstanding Christian, financier and thinker, and a widely known conductor of financial campaigns, as shown by the facts that he
conducted the Agnes Scott, Davidson College, and Queens College endowment funds, and was Field Secretary of the Georgia Tech financial
campaign.
