THE DAVIDSONIAN; NOVEMBER 12, 1925

For prompt and satisfactory service visit Paul Richardson’s Barber Shop 202 S. Church St.

INFLUENZA
As a preventive, melt and inhale Vicks night and morning. Apply up nostrils before mingling with crowds. If feverish, call a doctor at once.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 27 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

WRIGLEY'S
makes your food do you more good. Note how it relieves that stuffy feeling after hearty eating. Sweetens the breath, removes food particles from the teeth, gives new vigor to tired nerves. Comes to you fresh, clean, and full-flavored.
SEALED TIGHT - KEPT RIGHT.

Fresh Country Vegetables
Staple and Fancy Groceries
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
Davidson, N. C.

New York Cafe
BEST EATS IN TOWN
Fresh, Clean, Sanitary
Davidson, N. C.

We have several new U-Push’Em Fords at your disposal. Prices reasonable. See us at any time.
Henderson Filling Station
Davidson, N. C.

Bill Christian—"Say, Woodrow, did you hear those measly roosters crowing real early this morning?”
Woodrow—"Uh-huh.”
Bill—"I wonder why they wanted to do that.”
Woodrow—"Well, don't you remember you got up one morning early and you crowed about it for a week.”

THIRTY DAYS IS ALSO A CHANGE
Several weeks ago a college boy was arrested for stealing a purse, and when questioned by the judge as to why he did such a thing he said that he thought the change would do him good.

VERY INTERESTING
He may not have
A little fairy
In his home—
But he has
A little miss
In his engine.

Paul Revere was the first radio fan. He broadcasted with one plug.

A magazine writer tells us that a dog fills an empty space in a man's life. We would like to say that this is especially true of the hot dog.

Smith—"So your son is in college? How is he making it?”
Smithers—“He isn't. I'm making it and he's spending it.”

In deep dismay the woodpecker wept,
As the shades of evening stole;
He had pecked and pecked and pecked all day
At a concrete telegraph pole.

I TOLD YOU SO
The traffic cop did not heed
The race ahead, pell-mell,
So the doctor told the sexton
And the sexton tolled the bell.

A QUARTERBACK
“Your wife just eloped with the iceman.”
“Why should I worry; we won't need any more ice until June.”

Martin Crawford was dining with a pretty companion in the Hotel Charlotte Coffee Room.
“I say, waiter, why are you staring so rudely at the lady that’s dining with me?”
“Pardon me, sir, it ain't rudeness. It’s real admiration. You see, this is the third time tonight that she’s been in here to dinner.”

A preacher was describing the “bad place” to a congregation of naval cadets.
“Friends,” he said, “you've seen molten iron running out of a furnace, haven’t you? It comes out white, hot, sizzling, and hissing. Well—Well,” he continued, “they use that stuff for ice cream in the place I’ve been speaking of.”

Tact is something a girl uses with a slow date to make him think he’s a fast worker.

Somebody asked Kelly Woodham how he was getting on with the girl he is going to see in a nearby town. He replied that he was holding his own. We wonder if someone else is holding his own, too.

FIRE AT WILL
Frank Hudgins—“I see where a student killed himself.”
Goodykoontz—"What was the trouble?”
Frank—“He belonged to the R.O.T.C.”

His point was four;
He rolled a seven,
He grabbed the pot—
He's now in heaven.

“Papa, what kind of bread is ‘College Bred?’”
“That, my son, is what can be called a Four Year Loaf.”

“Mother, if you gave me two dollars and father gave you three dollars, what would you have?”
Mother—“I’d have heart-failure.”
Son (working arithmetic)

“Laugh this off,” said the chimpanzee as he tied a can on the hyena’s tail.

Batte—"I wish I had a nickel for every girl I have kissed.”
Yuk Hall—"What would you do, buy yourself a package of gum?”

Kissing a girl just because she wants you to is just like scratching a place that doesn’t itch.

DIPLOMACY
Dear Editor: I am in love with a homely girl but she doesn't seem to care for me, while a pretty girl with a car and lots of money wants me to marry her. What must I do?
Signed: Diamond Dick McCarty.
Dear Sir: Marry the girl you love and send me the name and address of the other one.

HERE’S A NEW ONE
Mary hada little lamb. His hair was white as snow; Poor Mary’s lamb went broke at last, ’Cause Mary fleeced him so.

NEVER SAY DIE
(Moline, IL, Daily Dispatch)

Denver police early today were searching in the vicinity of Fort Logan for a hold-up man who last night shot and killed them as they were slowly moving in an automobile just outside the city limits.

Prof.—"Mr. Peterson, can you tell me a part of the Bible which forbids a man’s having more than one wife?”
Pete—"It says that no man can serve two masters.”

Margaret—“Oh, I must go to gym.”
Murle—“Is he your latest?”

Fond Mother—“Benny, what's this Phi Bete key you've been talking about?”
Ben—“Oh, Mother, it’s just a pass key.”

Lil—"Can a girl live on love?"
Mil—"Yes, if she stays single.”

“Are you a friend of the groom?”
“Oh, no; I’m the bride’s mother.”

Sentry—"Halt! Who is there?”
Voice—“Anthony and Cleopatra.”
Sentry—“Advance, Cleopatra, and tell Anthony you've got a date.”

A cynic’s definition of bigamy is a double portion of too much.

SPECIAL TRAIN
(Continued from page 1)

The executive committee has granted the student body permission to run a special to the Carolina game, to be played on November 14th, at Chapel Hill.

Band Prepares for Carolina Journey

Again the famous Wildcats advance on Charlotte to wake it from its slumber. This time the Cats will be in the form other than the “eleven” and that is the famous Davidson Band, “the pride of Captain Weems’ R. O. T. C. division.”

The band made a good showing at the races last year and greater things are expected this year. For the past several weeks the organization has been practicing nearly every day with the idea in view to awaken all those thousands of people that will be in the “Queen City” on November 11th. Practice makes perfect, so listen to them raise the crowds from their seats Wednesday.

Tootie Crayton is the captain of the band this year and nearly every demonstration has been a success. In fact, the band is thought to be better now than it was at any time last year and as time goes on it will continue to get better. Watch out Mr. Sousa for “Tootie.”

Arrangements have been made for them to travel to the bowl in style. Through the efforts of the R. O. T. C. division and of the faculty, a large bus has been obtained and also “amusement” while on their extended stay. This trip is paving the way and also warming up the members for the Carolina fray when “we will down them every one.”

Thousands will listen to the band who have never seen our football team and probably don't know we exist but no such sad thing can be after this branch of the WILDCAT DIVISION hits town.

PROF. WACHTER TO AID
(Continued from page 1)

Tickets will go on sale under the auspices of the “D” Club, and all students will be given an opportunity to see Professor Wachter in his favorite role.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
MORALLY CONDUCTED

“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)
Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte.

Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Candies, TOILET ARTICLES, KODAKS
Prescriptions a Specialty
DAVIDSON, - - - N. C.

See us and get your Fraternity and Club fixtures
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

We have a complete line of toilet articles. See us about the special Palmolive offer.
The Student’s Store
“It’s yours, why not patronize it?”