THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 30, 1925

Preliminary Trials in Peace Oratory Contest to be Held in Raleigh
Strict Regulations Placed on Schools Entering Delegates
BIG PRIZES OFFERED

Davidson Will Have Representative in Contest if Plans Mature as Expected

One of the different oratorical contests that are attracting attention in the collegiate circles is the Peace Oratorical Contest which is to be held in Raleigh on May 27 or 28 of this session. This contest is a state affair and is open to all colleges in North Carolina. However, there are certain requirements made of each school before it is allowed to enter a candidate.

Before any student is eligible to participate in this contest, he must win over five other candidates in his school. This requirement causes more interest on the part of the students and at the same time assures better orations. The subjects of these orations must be about “Peace.” The speaker may treat this subject in any way that he wishes and the oration must be at least fifteen minutes in length. Only first and second prizes will be awarded to the respective winners of the contest. The first prize will be $60 and the second one will be $40.

As was stated above, there must be a preliminary in each college in which six men take part. The winner of this contest will represent his school at Raleigh in May. Davidson College will have no trouble in getting six men out for the preliminary and there will be some good ones, too. The date for the preliminary at Davidson has not yet been definitely set but it will in all probability be within two or three weeks. Davidson has been unusually active in debating and oratory this year, having taken part in several debates and in more than one oratorical contest. Too much praise cannot be given to Prof. Wachter who has given so much of his time to these contests and to helping and encouraging in every way he can, those who are interested in speaking. Several of the students have proven themselves to be speakers of ability. Whoever represents Davidson in the Peace Oratorical, it is certain that he will be a strong contender for the prize.

WILDKITTENS BEAT STATE

(Continued from Page 2)

DAVIDSON FRESH AB R H PO A E
Johnson, cf 1 3 0 0
Kugler, ss 0 1 8 2 1
Brandon, 1b 0 1 2 3 0 0
Jones, If 0 2 0 0
Phelps, c 0 2 0 0
Smith, If 0 0 0 1
Cathey 0 0 0 1
Edwards, If 0 2 0 0
Arrowood 0 0 0 0

*Batted for Arrowood in ninth.

Summary—Two-base hits: Charles, Clayton; three-base hit: Clayton; home run: Johnson; sacrifice hits: James, Brandon; stolen bases: Charles 2, Clayton, Baucom, Phelps 3; double plays: Clayton to Brandon 2; bases on balls: off James 2, off Oden 3; struck out: by James 5, by Oden 3; hit batsman: by Oden (Joyner); umpire: Holden.

Maulden, pitching for the Davidson Freshmen against State first-year men, allowed the Techmen but six hits, and won his game 9 to 4, despite the fact that Davidson made five errors, and the Wildkittens were unable to make but seven hits. The fact that State made four errors accounted for some of the runs of Davidson. Johnson was easily the star of the game. He made three of the Davidson hits, getting three hits and two walks out of five times up. Two of the three hits were for three-baggers. Arrowood made two bingles out of five trials that day. Johnson also made six catches in centerfield that day. When Maulden finished this game he concluded his twenty-second inning, his opposition getting only 14 hits off his delivery in that time.

STATE FRESH AB R H PO A E
Sechrest 2 2 2 2 2
Vick 0 2 8 0 1
White, 1b 2 0 0 0
Kendal, rf 0 0 0 0
Hennesa, 2b 0 1 2 0
Kidd 0 1 1 0
Brant 0 2 1 5 0
Bigger 0 0 0 0
Rowe 0 0 0 0

DAVIDSON FRESH AB R H PO A E
Johnson 2 2 3 0 6 0 1
Kugler 2 2 2 0 0 1
Arrowood, 1b 2 2 2 0 0
Dulen 2 0 2 0 0
Maulden, p 2 0 2 0 0
Poole, rf 2 0 0 0
Edgar, c 2 0 0 0
Edwards, lf 2 2 2 0 0
McAulay 3 0 0 2 0 2

Summary—Two-base hit: Sechrest; three-base hits: Johnson 2; sacrifice hit: Dulen; stolen bases: Johnson, Arrowood; bases on balls: off Bigger 2, off Rowe 3, off Maulden 3; struck out: by Bigger 2, by Rowe 1, by Maulden 3.

Mrs. A. Currie taught in the local high school a few days last week in the absence of Miss Mary Richards who has been ill. Pupils of the Davidson High School, directed by Miss Katherine Matthews, gave an operetta on Friday night. The occasion wasa success in every way. The Spaniards, noted in days gone by for their attacks on the Moorish invaders and their fear-inspiring inquisitions and chambers of torture, assume a new role Friday evening, when members of the Spanish clubs of Queens and Davidson Colleges join talents in the production of a novel and unique Castilian entertainment for the amusement of Davidson students and visiting delegates of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association.

Modern inquisitions and chambers of torture will be replaced by the more pleasant forms of entertainment, and spectators will enjoy, rather than suffer, the antics of the participants.

Lovers, strumming romantic airs and serenades, and bold picadors dodging the fierce attacks of blood-thirsty bulls who sooner or later will fall under the spear of the agile matadors, will carry the audience to Castile and Aragon, where for an hour or two they will be entertained by comedians, soloists, and beautiful señoritas, all speaking Spanish, and adding a realistic touch to the evening’s entertainment.

The entertainment will be unusual in view of the fact that the whole performance will be void of any English word or action, and will be entertaining in spite of the fact that due to a sad lack of bulls, students will be forced to assume this familiar role. It is rumored among Spanish enthusiasts that a certain Davidson student, bearing the name of the discoverer of electricity, makes an ideal male-cow—and his presence in the unusual cast assures the audience of at least one bit of realism. The lack of a real bull at first threatened to destroy the possibilities of the play, but ingenuity conquered—and a bull, who will do things and make noises no bull ever hoped to do before, is going to add zest to the entertainment.

But, that’s only a starter—students of the modern-day college find no trouble in imitating bulls. But, when a man is asked to make an ass of himself and act as a mule, then the fun commences. And that's exactly what three of the actors in the entertainment are called on to do. They must wrap themselves in the skins of jackasses, and with neighing and balking, they will drag the wounded bull from the arena, after the daring matador has struck him under the fifth rib. Blood will flow freely, and so will the bull—blood.

From the more gruesome portrayals, the scene suddenly shifts to ancient Spanish theater, where a beautiful maiden, wrapped in a varicolored shawl, will trip the light fantastic in a typical Spanish tango, dancing to the melodious strains of a Spanish guitar. The whirl of the dance, and the beauty of the dancer, coupled with the soft musical accompaniment, will leave the audience gasping for breath.

He who misses the Spanish entertainment misses much, so say the enthusiastic promoters of the entertainment. And so say we all of us. Muy bien.

And this is for Spanish Studes:
NINGUN VINO.—PERO DE SEÑORITAS Y CANCIÓN QUE?—LA NOCHE ESPAÑOLA. ES.
CUANDO?—VIERNES, EL 1 DE MAYO, A LAS OCHO DE LA NOCHE.
DONDE?—SHEARER HALL.
CUANTO?—"TWO BITS.”
QUIEN?—LOS CLUBS ESPAÑOLES DE QUEENS Y DE DAVIDSON.
VENGASE A VER: EL TOREO. LAS DRAMAS. LAS SEÑORITAS, BELLEZA.
OIGASE: ESPAÑOL, COMO SE HABLA, LA MÚSICA Y LAS CANCIONES ESPAÑOLAS.
DE GRAN BASTANTE!

Grid Card Arranged for Wildcat Team Next Fall
Final Football Schedule for Next Year Released by Doctor Douglas

Dr. F. M. Douglas, faculty director of athletics, has announced several changes in the football schedule for the Wildcat team of next fall. All the dates for the coming season have been decided upon but as yet the scenes of conflict between Davidson and two South Carolina schools, Wofford and Furman, are to be chosen.

Three new foes are on the schedule, Guilford, Hampden-Sidney, and Wake Forest. They replace University of Richmond, Lenoir, and Clemson. The new schedule follows:

Date School Place
Sept. 19—Elon—Richardson Field.
Sept. 22—Wofford—Undecided.
Oct. 3—Wake Forest—Charlotte.
Oct. 10—Guilford—Richardson Field.
Oct. 17—P. C.—Rock Hill (Winthrop).
Oct. 24—Furman—Undecided.
Oct. 31—State—Richardson Field.
Nov. 7—Hampden-Sidney—Richardson Field.
Nov. 14—Carolina—Chapel Hill.
Nov. 26 (Thanksgiving)—Duke—Richardson Field.

WINSTON MINISTER TALKS
(Continued from page 1)

Forgiveness of sins. A new spiritual life. When I speak to God is there anything in it? Do I get victory and eternal life? He that believeth not is condemned. He has promised all, the eternal riches; victory and eternal life. Jesus gives you power. He is power. Can He do what He says He will do? Yes, Jesus promises everything, and He can deliver it. If He can do it for you, He can do it for others. We as students can plant our feet, and stand on what we know, and then can climb up from this. Thank God for faith.

“On our continent are three zones: temperate and frigid. There are three zones to intellectual life. The torrid zone of our continent is filled with disease, and it has never produced any great civilization. The frigid, has nothing there; it is too cold. Between the temperate; this is the power zone. Here we find strong men, and intellectual ability. In the zones of intellectual life, in the torrid they believe all, in the frigid they believe nothing. Between, there is the great zone of life and power, “Faith.”

Dr. Frazer Hood introduced the speaker as being a man possessing two traits of character: the power of leadership and the power of stirring up the intellectual revival in the Southern Presbyterian Church. E. K. Regen had charge of the devotional part of the meeting. D. G. Wilson had charge of the song service. The Sophomore quartet furnished special music.

SOUTHERN HISTORY
(Continued from page 1)

own state, the Senator began his story of the South, by saying that if he were to select a text for his address he would choose: “Glory in thine inheritance.” And this text was justified by the address which makes real to Southern sons an inheritance in which they may justly glory, never forgetting that the South is an integral part of an indivisible and everlasting union, the United States.

Eloquently and vividly the speaker related and pictured the history of the South, beginning by contrasting this land, which was formerly the hunting ground of the red man, to the present thriving land developed in the wake of progressing civilization, leading finally to the grand culmination, the hope burning in the Southern heart: “One flag, one heart and one country.”