THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1925

Historical Convention Attended by Educators
American Historical Convention in Richmond Attended by Dr. T. W. Lingle

STELLAR ATTRACTIONS AT DAVIDSON IN FEW WEEKS
The booking agency for pictures at Davidson stated Monday that they had secured another good show for the student patrons.
It is a feature production called “Tongues of Flame,” and was released a short while ago. The plot is taken
from the continued story of the same name by Peter Clarke MacFarlane, which first appeared in successive issues of Hearst’s
International, and has since been published in book form. “Tongues of Flame,” starring Thomas Meighan, promises an excellent evening’s entertainment.

Four Classes Busily at Work on Special Plans
Seniors Contemplate Novel Gift But Find Big Problems Facing Them
A new year has come again, but like the old resolutions have not been up and new ones are scarcely
in order as yet. However, the classes are trying to get into the stride once more, committees being busy with
plans for the ensuing five months. The Seniors are looking here and there, trying to decide what the college needs
most that will both benefit it and be within shouting distance of their pockets. Someone has suggested a swimming pool
to hold the constant downpour of rain, a newly invented storm dispeller, or some more sidewalks.

R. O. T. C. News
Col. Axton, of Washington, D. C., was the guest of Capt. Richard Daughtery, Capt. Weems, and Capt. George during the
Christmas holidays. Col. Axton spent the holidays at his home in Dickson, Tenn. Capt. George was at home in Charlottesville,
Va. to enjoy the Yuletide holidays. Tilson, captain of the Washington and Lee football team last fall and brother of
Davidson’s Tex Tilson, was among the tackles mentioned for the all-American football team by Walter Camp.

Davidson College is starting the new year with two objects in view. First, to get the unit in shape for
inspectors who are to visit the college in the next few weeks; second, to get the band in shape to
render the best possible service at the basketball games to be played during the coming months. This will certainly put
pep into spectators as well as players and will help give Davidson the success in basketball that she had in
football. A notice has been received that Col. Frank C. Bolles from Washington will arrive to inspect the Davidson College
military unit on February 4.

The thirty-ninth annual meeting of the American Historical Association was held in Richmond, December 27 to 31. Delegates attended from
leading colleges and universities throughout the United States and England. The Jefferson Hotel was the headquarters for the convention. Dr.
T. W. Lingle, professor of French at Davidson, attended the convention. While interested primarily in languages, Dr. Lingle is also
a student of history, having taught that subject in other institutions. The convention was presided over by Charles M. Andrews,
of Yale University, who was elected president of the association during the course of the meeting. Papers were read by
the delegates, relating to all fields of history and historical research. During his stay in Richmond Dr. Lingle was the
guest of many friends in that city, and also attended some of the sessions of the National Convention of the
Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity.

Ministerial Candidates Busy During Holidays
Ministerial Band Does Fine Work in Churches During Christmas Holidays
The Christmas holidays did not stop the activities of the Ministerial Band as would be supposed, but only served to
stimulate them. A few weeks before Christmas letters were sent to the churches in the boys’ home towns with the
request that the members of the band be allowed to speak in at least one of the church meetings during
their stay. At the meeting last Sunday evening each boy reported where he had spoken and how many times. All
except two had spoken at least once and some as many as four times. Hayden Hollingsworth spoke in one of
Atlanta’s leading churches before a large audience. Don Stewart spent the holidays at Statesville and took complete charge of the
young people’s work there. He not only did this during the holidays, but has done so regularly during the fall.
Viernes spent the holidays at Wilmington and spoke at a young people’s meeting. He did it so well that the
pastor asked him to make the same talk before the congregation. Jim Carr spoke in his home church three times.
A neighboring pastor asked him to make a talk in his church, which he did. Six boys at Parkton, N.
C., took entire charge of a night service. The band was well pleased with the report as given.

Two other pictures, not definitely booked but practically certain of coming here, are of the same high order. The first
is Zane Grey’s latest novel, “The Thundering Herd,” which was published a short time ago in the Ladies’ Home Journal.
It is a tale of the hunt for buffalo in the days when great herds still roamed the prairies, of
the fine, clean love of a rough plainsman for a beautiful girl. A thrilling train of incidents—a buffalo hunt, an
Indian fight, an encounter with robbers, the girl’s abduction—culminated in—but see Jack Holt and Lois Wilson yourself. The other picture
which the writer has not seen is a starring vehicle for Viola Dana called “Along Came Ruth.” Advance press notices
and posters, however, seem to indicate that this is one of the greatest of Viola’s great creations. The agency is
being somewhat restricted in its efforts to book pictures very far in advance due to...

SODA =: PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St.the fact that it is necessary for each production to pass a board of review composed of
various ladies of the town. But they are bending every effort towards giving Davidson the very best of the new
pictures, and in the opinion of the majority, they have been very successful.

FIRST OF MAY TO SEE NEW CHAMBERS COMPLETED
(Continued from page 1)

When finished, this building is to contain a north and a south wing, each comprised of classrooms and laboratories, and
a central part made up of the auditorium, hall, and banquet room. Accommodations for 500 or 600 persons will be
available in this dining hall, and the large auditorium will seat from 1,500 to 1,800 in an audience. The second
and third floors in this wing will be taken up by the auditorium orchestra and balcony. Containing all of the
classrooms, offices, and a spacious auditorium, this three-storied modern building will centralize the work of the college, according to Doctor
Martin. He expects it, on completion, to be one of the finest buildings of its kind in the South.

CIGARS
NONE TOO SMALL
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
NONE TOO LARGE

All Lyceum courses, the last of which will come next month. Soon after that will be staged Junior Speaking with
plenty of “fire” to make things frolicsome. Plans are rapidly being worked out for “the best Junior Speaking that Davidson
ever had.” “Joyous Spirits for Junior Speaking” is their motto.

A spring long to be remembered is the plan of the Sophomore class. The annual banquet in the old stamping
ground, Charlotte, comes first. The exact date has not been set, but it will not be very long off since
examinations will whet their appetites to an unbearable keenness. As to Soph day, no plans have been made, but the
matter is under consideration.

The Freshmen have not formulated any plans, not having organized. When that important matter is completed, they will probably make
definite plans for the remainder of the year. The way will soon be opened for them to show their mettle.

DR. HOOD IMPRESSES
(Continued from page 1)

They who do not work shall not eat, was cited, which takes the place of an independent living, and more
than enough to live on, is represented in intellectual support—gaining not enough intellectual knowledge to stay in college, but more
than enough. This corresponds to the food the tree must receive from the earth. The tree also needs food from
the air; so the man needs to take in the intellectual atmosphere. The man who is lacking in the intellectual
side of his life is lacking in life. Religion and the church of today call for great intellectual leadership. This
leadership will come through hard thinking.

The speaker spoke of the statement made by college men that their science cannot be made to correspond with their
religious beliefs as an exaggerated assumption. The person who makes such an assumption knows very little of either subject.

Then something must come into the life from the outside. As the sun is to the tree, so God is
to man. “Man cannot live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God.”
We must have the moisture from the soil, the carbon dioxide from the air, but above all, we must have
the sunlight to play upon them. Unless we can walk with Him, and talk with Him, we are not living
life at its best. Life is not at its best until the eternal is real in our lives. “Religion has
been defined as such a perception of God that there is a change in the life and character,” and the
speaker emphasized the fact that a perception of God comes through one’s own knowledge of Him—knowledge gained for oneself.

The sunlight gets into the tree through a medium which scientists call ether. God gets into the life of man
through Jesus Christ, the medium through which the world sees God. “And he shall be like a tree planted by
the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever
he doeth shall prosper.”

In conclusion, the speaker spoke of the God-centered life, comparing it to a great symphony orchestra which, when all centered
in the life of the director, gave forth beautiful music. So will our lives when they are centered in the
great Leader.

A. M. Martin presided, introducing the speaker and reading the scripture. Roland Parker led the singing. Wallace Purdy was a
pianist, and John McRae rendered a violin solo, “In the Garden.” Harry Prite and Hayden Hollingsworth led in prayer during
the opening exercises. Dr. Hood offered a prayer at the conclusion of his address, and the Lord’s Prayer was repeated
in concert in closing.

SHOWING
103 WEST
Monday, January 12th
WARREN'S of Philadelphia
Tailors for College Men
Special Top Coats $25.00
Made To Order Suits $35.00
JACK CUNNINGHAM, Rep.

EAT AT THE ASTOR
LUNCH SERVICE
THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all
of your wearing apparel, Racquet, Tennis Golf Clubs, and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored in
your own home.
Write or see
Independence Trust Company
McAlister Carson, Manager
Insurance Department
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 3940

BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE
Headquarters For Young Men’s College Suits
Special Values Being Offered in Wide Bottom Pants
In one or two-piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50

The New Bell Bottom Pants
In Light, Medium, and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95
Trade With Us and Save Money

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
I. W. STEWART, Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. IVEY, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
