THEDAVIDSONIAN

A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 5, 1925

Alumni Association President Delivers Main Address on Davidson College Day

Rev. Jesse Rowan of Concord Urges Importance of Christian Education

ALUMNI ATTEND

Dr. Martin Summarizes Eventful History of College

The annual Davidson College Day exercises were held in Shearer Hall Saturday, October 21, at 11:30. Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college, officiated. The crowd was not quite as large as it has been in former years, when the service was a regular college exercise on which attendance was required. The exercises were opened with a prayer by Dr. Martin, after which he read a list of all the alumni of Davidson College who had died since the last Davidson College Day exercises. Many famous men were in this group, among them being a former alumni president, several trustees, an evangelist, and a senator. This list was compiled by Miss Cornelia Shaw, and Dr. Martin expressed his appreciation of her work. Dr. Martin then briefly summarized the work of the college since its establishment, before introducing the main speaker. “Davidson College has sent out to the world 796 men as ministers of the gospel and 429 as teachers. This is approximately one-fifth of the entire alumni dedicated to unselfish service. This shows the wonderful work that Davidson College has rendered to the world at large. There are about 6,000 alumni of Davidson, of these there are about 3,000 living. Every year since 1918 the enrollment of the college has increased until this year it has surpassed all records with an enrollment of 638 students,” said Dr. Martin.

Norris Prize to be Presented to Student Athlete

During the past week a little pamphlet was distributed in chapel, giving the rules and regulations governing the awarding of the Norris Athletic Trophy for the year 1925-1926. The following are the rules:

1. The Norris Athletic Trophy Committee, made up of the Director of Athletics, the Chairman of the Faculty Athletic Committee, the Graduate Manager of Athletics, the chairman of the Student Body, and the Low-man, shall have charge of the details of awarding the trophy. In the absence of the ex-officio chairman, the director of athletics shall preside at all meetings of the committee. The Alumni Secretary shall act as secretary to the committee, and shall keep a record of all proceedings.

2. To be eligible for the trophy the prospective recipient must have attained a passing grade on at least 70 percent of his scholastic work carried during the year.

3. The winner shall be determined by a popular vote of the student body in a primary election to be held during the first week in April, and in a final election to be held at the same time and place that balloting occurs for the election of the officers of the student body.

4. The three men receiving the highest number of votes in the primary election shall be considered as candidates for the trophy, and shall enter the final election to be held simultaneously with the election of the officers of the student body.

(Continued from page 3)

Wildkitten Gallia Shakes fi and Wins From Duke University Yearlings

Kell and Black Star as Davidson Fresh Defeat Duke Freshmen

The Davidson Wildkittens, cringing under the knowledge of two defeats so far this season and no wins, went into the Duke Freshman game last Friday, somewhat rejuvenated despite the absence of a number of regulars, and defeated the heavy Duke Freshman team, 9 to 7, in a clash which can well be described by the term hectic. First the Wildkittens led, then the Duke yearlings had the upper hand, and finally the Wildcats won. Both teams were passing at will, and the uncertainty of this policy kept the few spectators who watched the game in a somewhat expectant attitude.

The first scoring came in the initial period after the Duke Freshmen had fumbled on their own 34-yard line. In two first downs the Freshmen placed the ball on Duke's five-yard line, but after three attempts for only two yards, James kicked a field goal from placement, giving the Wildcats the first points. The little Blue Devils received a kick on their own 45-yard line in the second quarter, and in three successive passes went across for a touchdown, the last pass being completed for 28 yards, Godfrey taking it across. McNinch kicked the extra point, which then gave Duke the lead. Previous to this touchdown they had attempted a field goal from placement. In the third quarter neither team scored, but when the quarter ended Davidson had the ball on Duke's six-inch line. Early in the quarter Davidson had recovered a fumble on Duke's 22-yard line, but the ball changed hands on Duke's 11-yard line.

Tarheel Staff Sponsors College Press Conclave

Smith-Burke and Branch Will Represent Davidsonian at State Meet

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will hold its annual fall session in Chapel Hill, November 12-14, inclusive. Representatives from all the colleges in North Carolina are expected and 50 or more delegates will probably attend. The session will be opened Thursday, November 12, with an address of welcome by President E. G. Moore, editor of the N. C. State College See. The other officers of the association are, Earnest Milton, of Davidson, and Miss Eleanor Vanneman, of N. C. C. W., vice-presidents, and Miss Dixie Hines, Greensboro College, secretary and treasurer. On the opening night the association will be entertained at a banquet given by the Publications Union. Meetings will be held Friday and Saturday with the conventions adjourning at noon Saturday. At the fall sessions of the association plans for the year’s work are drafted and the place of the next convention is decided. Outside of discussions along this line, the fall conventions consider new items of actual business. In the spring meetings, more business is transacted and the best college newspaper and magazine are selected and officers for the coming year are elected. Last spring the association was entertained here at Davidson by representatives from the various publications on the Hill. At this time The Davidsonian clubs of the town united to give a Hal- after the cello solos.

Charlotte to be Scene of Coming Battle With Hampden-Sidney Tigers

Hampden-Sidney Has Met Leading Teams in Old Dominion State This Year

BATTLE OF CENTERS

Game to Decide Southeastern Presbyterian Football Supremacy

While the University of North Carolina, Davidson's next foe in the race for state titular honors, is pursuing the S. I. C. title in its annual game with Virginia Military Institute, the Wildcats will also be staging another championship battle with Hampden-Sidney. The Tigers and Wildcats will meet on Wearn Field Saturday in a fight for the Presbyterian championship of the South Atlantic States, Davidson having disposed of the Presbyterian College of South Carolina by a 13-0 victory earlier in the season. The announcement of the place for the game came as a surprise to many of the followers of the Davidson football team, Winston-Salem and Salisbury having held the positions foremost in the race to get the game. However, developments of the past week, principally through the efforts of the Sporting Editor of the Charlotte News, secured to the Davidson athletic authorities a guarantee that warranted the placing of the contest in Charlotte.

Hampden-Sidney, known as one of the best fighting schools, got off to a rather slow start this year, possibly through meeting teams of unusually high calibre. The Tigers have fallen before the terrific onslaughts of the University of Virginia by a 35-0 score, William and Mary, 19-0, and the University of Florida by a 22-0 score. Last Friday the Tigers opened up a great offense against the Elon Christians, winning 31-0.a team that has shown great improvement since their initial 35-0 defeat at the hands of the Davidson squad. The three touchdowns and one field goal margin that the University of Florida piled upon the squad showed the great defensive team that Coach Charlie Brinser has built at Hampden-Sidney. One outstanding player on the Hampden-Sidney team is “Dickie” Dudley, a 148-pound center. Newspapers commenting upon the game say that it will be a “battle” with Joe McConnell, Davidson pivot man, being rated as one of the best in North Carolina football circles. His playing in the Furman and North Carolina State games has been of exceptionally high order. Palmer and Adkins, Tiger halfbacks, showed great stuff against Elon, while the Tiger team is bringing another strong passing team to Wearn Field. Completing six out of ten passes for good gains against Elon in a game of rain, sleet, and snow, the Hampden-Sidney team shows good aerial ability, with Brinser, the quarterback, doing the passing.

The probable line-up of the two teams follows:

Davidson. Position. Hampden-Sidney
Arrowood or Pinkney LE Clark
McConnell C Dudley
Greyor RG Myles
Bake RE Roberts
Hendrix QB Brinser
Palmer LH Adkins
Wells RH Edmunds
Block (c) FB

Place: Wearn Field, Charlotte, N.C.
Time: Probably 2:30.

On Thursday evening, the four book clubs held a Hallowe’en entertainment. Stunts by the members of the various clubs and divisions, and refreshments featured the occasion.

It has been proved at last that spooks are human. On account of the cold misty weather, very few spooks and goblins showed their mischievous forms on the campus on Halloween. There were very few appearances as compared with former years. Perhaps the presence of much “fire” frightened the Halloween ghosts away. But the dawn came and saw a few mysterious forms and evidences of unusual things that had been performed by the more ambitious goblins. The water tank had a strange message inscribed thereon in white paint; it read: “Just Running Wild.” There have been many interpretations of the meaning of this, but the most logical one is that a spook landed on the tank about midnight. A number “2” had been painted in green paint on the door, proclaiming that the occupant was the “Third Assistant Fire-Chief.” It is not known to which of the two occupants this referred. The front porch or vestibule of the same building had an inscription designating the place as the domicile of someone not of the Caucasian race. Thinking to help the War Department, some of the goblins moved Sergeant Kirby's “bulletin” board to a more prominent place in front of the drug store where the students could view the bulletins without exertion. As far as is known, none of the professors were attacked, and none of the classrooms were desecrated in any way.

Davidson Eleven Sweeps Aside Wolfpack by Steady Onslaught

HENDRIX STARS

N.C. State Attempts to Stem Tide With Aerial Attack

As twilight was slowly falling upon Davidson College late this afternoon, the Davidson Wildcats, led on and driven forward by the brilliant dashes and brainy headwork of Jim Hendrix, were smashing to the right and to the left, ever and anon endeavoring to once more sweep across the last chalk line of the North Carolina State Wolfpack. Had they been granted one more minute of play, they would probably have shoved across another marker, for the referee's blast ended the game with the ball in State's possession on their five-yard line, first down and goal to go. The much-touted and much-famed McDowall and his ten howling wolves came to the Wildcat lair, but McDowall and the howls of the Wolves did little to stop the onslaught of the Wildcats. The Wolves will limp back to their lair whimpering after the trouncing by the Wildcats this afternoon. The Wolfpack was outclassed, outplayed, and outfought.

Big Crowd

Four thousand, five hundred people sat shivering and huddling on the bleachers surrounding Richardson Field and time and again saw the little Wildcat eleven slash through the heavy State team, saw great gaps cut into the Tech line, veritable caverns opened through which Hendrix for the most part dashed.

World Court Conference at Duke Draws Many Students from Southern Colleges

Zupke Quartette Offers First Lyceum Number

Russian Music is Featured in Initial Lyceum Performance

The first number on the lyceum program to be given this year was presented in Shearer Hall last Tuesday evening at 8:30 p.m. The Russian Quartet, playing under the Piedmont Lyceum Bureau, rendered a very interesting program to an audience made up almost entirely of students. Mr. and Mrs. Zupke and their two daughters composed the quartet. At the beginning of the program, Mr. Zupke gave a short history of Russia, telling of the customs and government of his native land. As soon as he finished his talk, the musical program began. Mr. Zupke performed on the cello, Mrs. Zupke played the organ, and their two daughters ably played the violin and the piano. The first number was the “Russian Fantasy.” After this came the “Anvil Chorus,” and the “Russian Peasant Dance.” Mr. Zupke told his audience that this is a very popular dance number among the Russians; that they cannot keep their feet still when this tune begins, even though they might be upon the top of a house.

The next number was a cello solo, accompanied by Miss Zupke on the piano. “Asleep in the Deep” was played, followed by “Old Black Joe.” Two readings were given by Mrs. Zupke. One of them was “Johnnie Takes a Bath,” and the other was a short joke—another take-off on Johnnie. A fantasy of the “Old Kentucky Home” followed.

Hillhouse, Bowie, and Graves Represent Davidson at Political Conclave

The World Court Conference convened at Duke University, North Carolina, October 30, 31, and November 1, with over 100 delegates representing 18 colleges and universities in attendance. The conference was the first inter-racial conference of college students to be held in the state, and was declared to be a distinct success. Davidson was represented by Prof. J. H. Davis, A. M. Hillhouse, “Y” secretary, and R. W. Graves and A. Y. Bowie, of the student body, both members of the Senior class. During the conference, Bowie was appointed state chairman of the Student Friendship Commission. The conference, which was fostered by the Y. M. C. A., was for the purpose of placing before the students of the state their responsibility and their opportunity to make their voices heard in the vote on America’s entry into the World Court, which vote will be taken in the Senate on December 17. Student thought and action along all lines of public questions were encouraged by all speakers and leaders of the conference. The principal speakers of the conference were Kirby Page, internationally known for his peace plans of non-resistance; Dr. Russell, professor of Sociology at Dartmouth; and Mr. Morze, well-known professor of Psychology and Philosophy at the University of South Carolina. Friday evening was given over to an introductory meeting, greetings, and a short address on the nature of the conference. The Saturday morning session was featured by several discussions and speeches.