THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 26, 1925

Hang Around For Junior Speaking April 9-13

Staple and Fancy Groceries
Quantity Quality Service
H. M. JOHNSTON
Phone 20

Always carry Wrigley’s to freshen the mouth and sweeten the breath. Soothes nerves, refreshes throat and aids digestion.
WRIGLEY'S
after every meal

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S & W Cafeteria

Prof.—What church do you belong to?
Fresh—Why—the—er—name some of them over.

Out on the rifle range the other day one of our Dumb Fresh was shooting. He shot 50 times and
didn't even graze the target. The captain got sore. “You couldn't hit an aeroplane hanger! Go behind that tree and
shoot yourself in the head!” The Fresh faded from sight. In a minute a shot was heard from the direction
of the tree. The captain went white and sprinted madly toward it. Just as he reached it a powder-smoked face
peered around the trunk and the Freshman came to attention, “Sorry, sir!” he reported, “Another miss.”

The height of laziness—the man who would freeze to death before he'd shiver.

Baker—"I'm insulted.”
Briggs—"How’s that?”
Baker—"She asked me if I danced.”
Briggs—"What's insulting about that?”
Baker—"I was dancing with her when she asked me.”

They say women are dressing more and more like men. Maybe so; but we'd like to see the one who
could dress like the student who habitually arises at 8:28 and makes chapel.

Backed in the huge oval was the colorful crowd, jammed in with scarcely room to breathe—row on row—layer on layer—the
crushing mob was packed in—packed in, as someone said, like sardines—sardines—and the funny part of it is that they were
sardines.

Allison—"Fatty, I believe you're afraid of your shadow.”
Joiner—"Why shouldn't I be. It looks like forty people following me.”

Fresh (as he sees Soph cutting a huge paddle)—"There is a destiny that shapes our ends, rough hew them as
we may.”

Raines (beneath the window, with a saxophone)—"Hist, Jule, open the window or I'll play the darn thing.”

Fresh—"This dance is getting monotonous.”
Girl—"Well, get some variety—try stepping on my other foot awhile.”

Golf Professional—"What would you do if you had a ‘stymie’?”
Dub—"See a doctor.”

Eclairs!! Um!

Carry Good Furniture
NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO.
Statesville and Taylorsville, N. C.
“Not Cheap Furniture, but Cheap”
We furnish homes complete.
Phonograph Records 50c each

Littlejohn—"I got Denver last night.”
McSwain—"Yeh?”
Littlejohn—"Yeh. Heard the University of Colorado on my radio.”

Prof.—"Yes, I once spent a whole night on a hilltop waiting for the world to come to an end.”
Fresh Guthery—"And did it?”

Suggestions for jobs for our Seniors:
Calling out stations on an ocean liner.
Deck swabber on a submarine.
Chief linesman for a wireless telephone company.
Stoker on an oil burner.
Selling electric fans in Iceland, and overcoats in Africa.
Peanut Parcher.

In an effort to determine the mental status of the student body, the official reporter recently interviewed four men as
to their favorite author. Hudgins, the first man interviewed, said: “My favorite author is Percy Marks. He is my favorite
because he wrote The Plastic Age, and so gave a fine topic to talk about in the friendly little discussion
groups, better known as Bull Sessions.”

The next man was Freshman Bill Tate, who was famous for losing golf balls. “I have never read a book,
but my favorite author is the man who wrote Ziegfeld’s Follies.”

The third celebrity visited was Bart Hall, a Christian Evidence student. “My favorite author,” said Mr. Hall, laying aside a
copy of College Humor, “is the author of the Rover Boy books. It was his vivid descriptions of colleges and
college life that inspired me to leave the farm and come to Davidson.”

The last man interviewed was none other than Al Lake, the annual Ikey. “My favorite author,” he quoth, “is the
man who wrote Milton's Paradise Lost. I like him because he wrote a book so long I never even tried
to read it, and as a result enjoyed it very much.”

The results of these interviews are very gratifying as it shows that Sam Summers is not the only man on
the campus who never reads anything besides the Whiz Bang.

Ode to Mr. E. L. Christenbury, by Mr. Christenbury’s greatest admirer, I. L. Christenbury:
“My, but you are darling,
I declare you're cute.
You surely are the stuff;
I'll say that you're a beaut;
You are as happy as can be,
Just to think, sweet thing,
That you are me.”

FRED SMITH IS ELECTED EDITOR-IN-CHIEF OF DAVIDSONIAN
(Continued from page 1)
In recognition of his ability, he was initiated into the Reporters’ Club. His Sophomore year he helped in the editorial
department, was awarded the Golden Quill, the highest honor given by the Reporters’ Club, and in the spring was appointed
managing editor, which position he has filled with great...credit to himself. During that year also he originated the idea of
a Chaff column, which has become a regular column in the paper and has remained under his supervision. Even in
the summer, Smith has been getting experience and valuable newspaper information by working on a large Southern daily. He has
been actively engaged in dramatic work, having had one play produced this year, and with two more to be produced
this spring. He was elected a member of Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity last fall. Under Smith, The Davidsonian should go
forward at a rapid rate. He is a man well fitted for his position both by his experience and natural
ability. The paper begins next year without the burden of a debt which has handicapped this year’s staff. It is
already recognized as the best college newspaper in the state and it is quite possible for the editor-elect to realize
his goal by making it the best in the South.

Khaki-Clad Youths in Feature Drills Cover Famous Countryside

Tiresome and Extensive Hikes Mark R. O. T. C. Activities Here for the Past Month

In the fourth year of Captain Gudger, during the majorship of Lake, the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps was commanded by
P. M.S. & T. to attire itself in a military manner and prepare to advance upon the neighboring city of
Cornelius, North Carolina, United States of America. Said purpose being to march through this aforesaid mentioned town in a military
manner, as becomes thoroughly trained soldiers. Having the usual Squad, Joyner did execute squads right, column left, and was well
on his way with the remainder of the organization. At least, if Squad Joyner didn't go on the trip he
should have; however, a similar experience to the said coach of said Davidson College in that they must order a
specially made pair of trousers for this complete military unit, and it may have been that this said Squad was
ruled out on account of improper uniform.

When future historians have progressed to this point in recording the deeds of the First R.O.T.C., Fourth Corps Area Army
of the United States, they will make a fitting pause, and the Officer of said unit did mount himself on
Betsey Lou, charging little mare of Citizen Helper, and take himself, as becomes an officer, up and down the line
of his charging unit—but let the historians labor over said deed, it would be unfitting that current news should tarry
here.

Battalion, Davidson College, observe how Commanding of Private Rice, D Company 2nd, having been cautioned to place his gaze upon
the back of his file leader’s neck, other members of the outfit did profit by his military example. They marched
pep through the limits of the mystic metropolis of Jaybirdsville. Silent and full of meaning, the soldiers made their way
along the state highway to the railroad underpass, here they marched in column of squads and kept right on down
the road. Not a noise, not a cry of alarm, the intensive drilling was telling on the outfit, and with
unusual precision, they marched under the railroad underpass.

“Cover down, Mr. Dew!” barked a ringing command from the rear. Private Dew was observed to take the matter seriously,
and place himself in his relative position. The advance moved on to one-time Liverpool, North Carolina, without a bit of
consternation. Having passed through the town, where the voice of a tiny female was observed, “Oh lookie, Johnie, at the
cowboys!” the unit advanced beyond the corporate limits where the first halt was observed. Private Arthur at once engaged a
young straggler, who had followed the rear of the column from said aforementioned town, to approach a dealer in bottled
drinks and discuss the matter of purchasing one from the dusky civilian, but the captain of the flank-and-rear commanded Sir
Arthur to consider his position of influence and refrain from making said purchase.

Sgt. Norwood became engaged in a word battle with a Mrs. Dina Clarity and was completely routed at the end
of the campaign. Said Mrs. Clarity (col.) did assure Sgt. Norwood that even though two maidens of color, retreating in
the distance, were afraid of his gun, that she, Mrs. Clarity, was not of that fearful nature and meant to
stand her ground at all costs. No casualties were reported. The march continued, and Private Foster observed that by marching
long enough you get nowhere at all, for the battalion returned to its starting point. The last seen of the
major’s mount, Citizen Helper was leading the beast furiously away. The march was a decided success, from a military point
of view, snappy and well carried out.

The Raleigh Cafe
A Refined Dining Room for Particular People
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

BALLS EATS CLOTHING
LEWIS BASEBALL SUPPLIES
BATS EVERYTHING A WILDCAT NEEDS
AND SOAP STUDENT'S STORE
GLOVES DRINKS PENNANTS
R. O. SELLARS
