4 ~ THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH................. Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE.......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
BRANCH........................................ Managing Editor
WHARTON................................. Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. JONES................................. Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON............................. Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER............................. Associate Editor
W. H. L. D. A. Y. BOWIE................. Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH................ Associate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN.................. Humorous Editor

Business Staff
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres.
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr.
R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON
J. P. McKNIGHT
H. M. AUSTIN
E. MOORE
F. K. BELL
E. K. REGEN
C. L. BRAGAW
H. L. SHELBY
D. M. CALHOUN
B. THOMPSON
W. T. COVINGTON
B. WEBB
W. T. IS
J. G. WHARTON
E. L. DOUGLASS
W. WILSON
F. T. FRANKLIN
C. WITHERS
W. S. GORDON
W. S. WI

EDITORIAL

OUR ADVERTISERS

One of the most vital parts of life upon the Davidson campus is that played by our publications. The Quips and Cranks offers at the end of each year a permanent review or resume of the year; our Magazine presents four times each year the best of the literary efforts of the student body; The Davidsonian each week gives to the student the news of the college in a highly interesting form. The maintenance of these three publications depends of course upon our advertisers. This is true with regard to the publications of all schools. In our case, it is true that without the advertising that Charlotte business houses give Davidson, neither the paper nor magazine nor annual could survive. Statesville, Mooresville, and Davidson ads are also of vital importance. Of this advertising, a large part comes naturally from the clothing and furnishing stores of Charlotte. It is natural that they should wish to secure the trade that 600 college boys would bring to any city. To do this, they have regularly advertised in The Davidsonian. They claim today that they are receiving very little, often nothing, in return. Their claims are without a doubt well-grounded. Every day there are firms from Richmond, Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York at Davidson getting the trade of the college men. They are not advertising; they are not supporting the student activities. But they will continue to come to Davidson. We are not so radical as to propose that they be excluded, nor that the students discontinue trading with them. We happen to have agents for clothing companies on our staff. But we do propose and do suggest that in a case where goods of the same quality, or of the same price can be secured in Charlotte or other towns, that we should at least give the Charlotte firms our consideration.

Elon shows herself to be a school of real sportsmanship by the report of the Davidson-Elon game, contained in the college paper, the Maroon and Gold. The account of the game did not detract from Davidson’s victory one whit, and there were no alibis. They also decried the loss of Sappenfield as one of our star players.

Those students who have gone to the Exposition in Charlotte these two weeks have all secured a certain amount of information about the Carolinas that they did not have before. One can appreciate the state more after seeing the visible results of co-operation and progress.

H. D. Business Manager
W. H. Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. Circulation Manager
E. D. Subscription Manager
J. M. Subscription Manager
C. W. Solicitor
V. S. Solicitor
E. O. DOUGLASS Assistant
JULIA Service Department

Open Forum

Gentlemen:

Since some members of the faculty have recommended a re-reading and further consideration of an article headed “Two Pictures” appearing in the last issue of the Davidsonian, of which I am the author; since such a reissue will again place my position clearly before you; and since the student body will probably have taken some action upon this matter before The Davidsonian is off the press; therefore I will not undertake at the present time to prolong the discussion.

DON WHARTON.

TO STYGIAN

It may be that University men, as a class, are church-goers, and it may be that the freedom allowed students at Carolina accounts for their readiness to attend church, we don’t know. But we do know an alumnus of that institution who says that on two occasions last spring he attended morning service in the Presbyterian Church at Chapel Hill, at neither of which services more than a handful of students was visible. Of course, that may have been a coincidence. If so, and if the student attendance is usually very good, we submit that the coincidence was remarkable.

Now to Brass Tacks! Davidson is called a Christian College, by which it is meant that on her campus and in her classes the Christian Spirit is the ideal. If that is true, what is to take the place of church attendance as a spiritual stimulant? And if it be admitted that church attendance is normal, and the right thing, and in accord with the curriculum, why not compulsory church attendance? Doesn’t it seem to you that a man who recognizes the value of the spiritual will attend church anyway? If he will, what objection can he have to the fact that, to avoid confusion and to ensure uniformity of attendance, he is expected to occupy the same seat each Sunday? The College has assumed certain obligations in regard to us. We are to be exposed to the best possible influences, and, that each man may be clearly responsible for his failures, his attendance at classes is required. In the same way, we are expected to attend church in order that, along with our instruction in secular things, we may at least hear, even if we fail to understand, of the Spiritual. Briefly then, this is the case: (1). If you value religion at all, you are willing to go to church; (2). And if so, to go regularly. (3). And if to go regularly, to sit in the same seat always. (4). In other words, to fulfill the obligation which you made upon entrance, to obey rules.

THINK IT OVER

I have certainly thought it over and in fact read and re-read the Open Forum article “Two Pictures” quite a number of times for the simple reason that I wanted to get the benefit of all there was in this clear statement of the facts as they are and not as they are supposed to be. What facts? The ones that have been proved not only by word of mouth but by two well-written articles that have appeared in The Davidsonian this fall. Compulsory church attendance! Someone was absolutely correct when he stated that the student body here was divided into two groups in regard to this matter. And furthermore, he happened to get the percentages correct; but he, in some unexplainable manner, put the shoe on the wrong hoof. A man who meets the students of the college in which he teaches only in the classroom cannot have a clear idea as to what is going on in their minds and just what is their attitude on this important subject. No doubt there are a few men at Davidson who are serenely happy to go through life doing just what they are told to do and nothing else; they are the five percent. They are the ones who enjoy doing that which they are compelled to do; they are naturally for compulsory church attendance. But how many broad-minded men will one find to back them up in their weak convictions—convictions that they have because they are not strong enough to have real convictions of their own? When 95 percent of the student body are absolutely against compulsory public worship, some of whom are not Presbyterians, is it not time that some step be taken to put matters straight? The faculty, the trustees, the parents of Davidson men—do they not boast continually of the high type of Christian manhood that makes up the student body of Davidson? Why is it then that they place so little faith in their ability to see matters as they really are? Certainly the right kind of a Christian man would do that which is right whether he is compelled to or not. If compulsory attendance at religious services is stopped and 60 or even 6 men go on their own free will and really derive some benefit from the sermon, is that not accomplishing more toward the end that our faculty has in view than if 600 men were compelled to go and in going digested the sport and comic sections of the Sunday paper? Even the most Puritanical type of religious leader would not try to force one into Christianity. Youth rebels against the unjust iron hand and this is just what is happening here at Davidson. Davidson men have remained trueTo the teachings of their childhood in the past and they will measure up to the very dot this time, if they are given the chance. Now, men of Davidson, faculty of Davidson, can you not unite to further the cause that both of you are attempting single-handed and are getting nothing but criticism in return for all your work? You can, but are you going to? 

CALDWELL WITHERS.

ON TO CHAPEL HILL

Every year the student body of Davidson is allowed by the faculty to run one special train to a football game played quite a distance away. This is granted outside of the specials that are run to Charlotte. We shall be able to see most of the games this year, because of the fact that several of them are being played on Richardson Field and in Charlotte, but there is going to be one hair-raising encounter that will be packed full of thrills that will be played on another campus. This is the game on the fourteenth of November at Chapel Hill. Of course, there is going to be a twelve-reel Wild-Western thriller in Rock Hill, or wherever the P. C. game is played, and everyone will want to see that, and we will be able to run a special to it if we are allowed one period off on the Saturday that it is played, but it is the desire of nearly every man on the campus to see that Wildcat team show its stuff against Carolina. To beat Carolina is the height of Davidson’s ambition just at present, and one way that every one of us can help do it is to be there on the sidelines when the first whistle is sounded, letting every man on the team know that we are there to help them claw their way to victory. It is early to make definite plans, but it certainly is not too early to begin thinking about it. It is quite a ways to Chapel Hill, and lots of us are nearly broke, but if we will cut out some of our unnecessary expenses now, and begin to save a little money, we can have the privilege of seeing one of the best games in the South in a few weeks. Think about it, and when they ask us where we want to run our special train, let’s every man yell, “Chapel Hill!”

'27, THAT SPIRIT

Is the Davidson spirit dying? Davidson without this spirit would not be Davidson. This spirit has been loyally handed down to every class since the college came into existence back in 1837. Let us be sure that we are not the ones to let it die or even waver. Let us keep our spirit on such a high plane that it will bring the credit to Davidson which it has brought in the past. In athletics, Davidson has always been known as a college that turned out a fighting bunch of Wildcats who never know when they are licked and by this same spirit many defeats have been turned into glorious victories by the Wildcats. And anyone who saw the game fights which our football team put up last year against such opponents as Furman, N. C. State, Clemson, Carolina, and Duke, although outweighed heavily in each contest, can only feel that as far as our teams are concerned the spirit is still there. But as far as the student body is concerned, do we measure up as we should? Do we give our whole-hearted support to our teams and our other college activities? It seems that we have reached a crisis. At the pep meeting, which was held just before the Wofford game, only a hundred and seventeen Freshmen were present or accounted for. The upperclassmen do not intend to burden the Freshmen by these meetings, but only to drill them in organized cheering. And to try to instill in their hearts the love for Old Davidson which every Davidson man should have. All of us praise our teams when they are victorious. But do we honestly praise them in defeat? Do we realize that sometimes defeat is as glorious as victory? The time to praise a team is when it has received its knocks and is discouraged. And we can afford to do this because we all know that win or lose any Davidson team gives its best to bring honor to Old Davidson. No Davidson team even in defeat has brought any dishonor to Davidson because they play remembering the old proverb, “When the one great scorer comes to write against your name he'll write not that you won or lost, but how you played the game.” And when we are on the campus we have a chance to increase the Davidson spirit by speaking. This seems a small thing but it is not. For it helps to bind our hearts in lasting friendships and to give new significance to: “College ties can ne’er be broken, Formed at Old D. C. Far surpassing wealth unspoken, They’ll forever be.” Now on this weekend we are going to have a chance to show whether the Davidson spirit is as fine as ever or not when the Wildcats meet Wake Forest in Charlotte. When Monk calls for a pep meeting this week, let’s have every student in Davidson at those meetings. And then let’s all go down to Charlotte and show our team we are back of them to the limit. We are. Let's prove it. If we do this we'll see our team give their best for the glory of Old Davidson.

And while I am no prophet I feel that if a game can be won by fight that Davidson will beat Wake Forest. We have a college that we can well feel proud of, and it is up to us to keep the record. The only way we can do this is for everyone to do his bit. Don’t expect the other fellow to do your bit; do your bit and let him do his bit. If we do this we will keep Davidson what she now is: the best Old College in the world.

H. P.

Let’s don’t forget that special we are to get for either the P. C. game or Carolina game. Pull for it.

Through the Key Hole

THE WORST POEM I’VE READ TODAY
By Bill Dodgers

The Wreck of ’27

Dad gave him his orders at six in the evening,
Saying, “Son, be home before one.
I’m getting durn tired of this night joy-riding
And I don’t care if you are my son.”
And the son turned and said to his Red Hot Mommer,
“Let’s go before it gets too cold,
It’s a mighty long way from here to the dance-hall
And we want to make this gas buggy roll.”
They were going down the road making 60 miles an hour,
And he without a thought in his bean.
They found him asleep with his hand on the bottle
And sprinkled o’er with Good Gulf Gasoline.
So flappers, from now on please take warning,
While burning the midnight gas.
Never speak harsh words to your sweet loving papa,
Or you'll lie underneath the green grass.

An old negress came into the Globe Clothing Company the other day and said she wanted some black undergarments. The clerk remarked that he had none and asked her why she wanted them of that particular shade. “Well, hit’s lak dis, white folks—Mah husband Henry died las’ week, and Ise got ter moan fer ‘im. And when I moans, I mean I moans clean through.”

Skit McConnell, the filling station man, announces his new line of sheik lure, two drops of which will make any maiden drop her eyes and three drops will make her fall for you. Great stuff for football games.

Many a June husband has forgotten how to drive with one hand.

A TIGHT ONE

A college newspaper defines a stingy man as the gink who takes his bride on a trolley ride for a honeymoon, and after buying her a nickel’s worth of peppermints, says, “Let’s save the rest of them for the children.”

Stewed—“Let’s go squirrel hunting.”
Prof.—“I’m game.”
“All right then, I'll shoot you.”

Harold Burke is a polite fellow. He was driving along the road to Charlotte and saw an attractive young lady walking. He asked her whether she wanted to ride. “Nope,” said she, “I’m walking to reduce.” “Well, you've lost yer way,” answered Harold. “This is the road to Charlotte.”

RIGHT AFTER SATURDAY, TOO

Down at Queens, they put across the driveway, on Sunday, a sign that bore this inscription, “No Admittance—Sabbath Day.” Then someone rubbed out the “Sab” and when the Queens went out to see why everyone stopped and laughed, they found this warning—“No Admittance—Bath Day.”

One of our most popular students liked to have broken his neck the other night. He had an alcohol rub on his neck and tried to lick it off.

Let’s sing a sad lay
For Finis J. Bloom.
He knew his hotel,
But he picked the wrong room.

Co-ed to Ed.—“Oh, look at that cute bow tie. I wish I had a dress made out of that.”

“That’s simply stunning,” said the cave girl as her sweetie whacked her over the head with a fifty-pound club.

EVOLUTING

MAMMA, DON’T YOU TRY TO MONKEY ROUND WITH ME.

One Fresh wrote home that he liked college work pretty well, but it took up a lot of his time.

C. F. S.