7 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1926

Alumni Secretary Makes Report for Two Months
Work of Ernest Milton, Secretary of a Comprehensive Nature in Brief Time He Has Been Working

A committee was appointed to select an alumni secretary, the association agreeing after several years’ deliberation that the employment of a man for this office was essential. The committee selected Mr. Ernest Milton, who began his duties at Davidson on August 16. 

The secretary had to begin on the ground floor, laying his own foundation for the work, and mapping out his duties with the assistance of administrative officers of the college and others in the Alumni Association. An office has been equipped in the south end of Elm Row—the old Kappa Alpha hall—and work formerly connected with other departments at Davidson has been placed in his hands. 

A rather comprehensive program was mapped out at the beginning, and a report after two months and a half of work indicates the possibilities of the work, and the scope of the work he is doing.

The Stunt Night performance will start promptly at a quarter past eight, November 13, in Shearer Hall. Tickets are 50 cents and reserved seats may be secured from Caldwell Withers at the same price. The program is as follows:
1. Junior Stunt.

Since coming to Davidson in the middle of August, Mr. Milton has organized three Alumni Associations—at Greensboro, Rock Hill, and Salisbury—and visited the Charlotte Alumni Association, being at the meeting there last night. His aim this year is to obtain at least 25 local organizations of Davidson alumni.

He has had charge of the last two bulletins of Davidson, writing them, and seeing that they were mailed out to alumni. He has sent out a letter for the committee that employed him, as well as a special letter to the alumni in regard to the Home-coming celebration here today.

In the two letters mailed out, he has enclosed cards for the Loyalty League, and has received within six weeks a total of $760 from 116 alumni, and will continue to push this phase of his duties. Mr. Milton also issued a blotter with the football schedule on it, with reference to Home-coming Day. He has sent out a letter for one class president to 220 students, mailed out an invitation for the Charlotte Alumni Association, and has sent letters to four classes concerning their respective stunts, and each class is having much hard and secret practice. These stunts are a continual succession of hearty jokes and shines, and are well written and directed.

The Dramatic Club will present one of their famed one-act plays, “Ten Days,” written by Bob Covington. The cast will include Miss Hood, Boyce Martin, John McNeely, Tyree Dillard, and J. K. Preston.

Other popular songs will be presented by Ed Wilson, trilling tenor, accompanied at the piano by H. R. Mobley. On the Glee Club trip two years ago, Ed received monumental applause, especially at girls’ schools. There is keen rivalry among the personnel of this quartet, also practically unchanged from last year.

Our “Drummer Boy Bob” comes out with another popular song this week, and informs us that he will soon have his orchestra ready to play it for us: “I'd rather have two girls of sixteen than one of thirty-two.”

SIXTY-FOUR MEN PLEDGED

H.-Sidney (12) Pos. Davidson
Turley LE Bohannon
Canter LT Lincoln
Nance LG Laws
Dudley C McConnell
Savage RG Boggs
Myles RT Ritchie
Roberts RE Arrowood
Bremer QB Sappenfield
Atkins LH D. Grey
Palmer RH Geer
Edmunds FB Farrell

Substitutions—Hampden-Sidney: Scott for Turley; Worden for Carter; Carter for Worden; Blanton for Savage; Savage for Blanton; Ayres for Myles; Garred for Roberts; Roberts for Garred; Jones for Atkins; Richardson for Palmer; Ruffner for Edmunds; Sevy for Bremer.

Officials: Evans (Virginia), umpire; Harrell (Carolina), head linesman. Time of quarters, 15 minutes.

Professional Notices

Phones: Office, 588-- Residence, 65 J
DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Medical National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.

Anderson Building. Court Street Entrance
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays 12 to 2.

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-3to alumni in Greensboro, Rock Hill, and Salisbury, urging their attendance at organization meetings. They totaled 200 letters, all personally signed. One of his duties is to handle publicity. In two and a half months, he has written 219 news articles, sent to a total of 10,149 newspapers, which amounts to over 75,000 words; receives in his office and carefully clips news items, editorials, and articles about Davidson men in 15 newspapers. He has had made and sent out 353 pictures of Davidson football players and other items. In addition to the above, he has written approximately 500 personal letters to alumni and has traveled around 2,500 miles on business connected with his office. He has been working hard on the Homecoming celebration and is preparing a list of class presidents and sent several lists of classes to alumni requesting them.

STUNT NIGHT
(Continued from page 1)

five late dance hits with probably a saxophone solo. The Quartet, consisting of D. M. Calhoun, John Foster, John McRae, and Bill Green, will make one, possibly two appearances. This is practically the same quartet that received much applause last year. The Mandolin and Guitar Club, consisting of a guitar, two mandolins, and a ukulele, played by Proe Thompson, Dick Kane, Tom Jones, and Roger Womack, respectively, will render:

1. Quartet.
2. Dramatic Club.
3. Symphony Orchestra.
4. Glee Club.
5. Mandolin and Guitar Club.
6. Ed Wilson and H. R. Mobley.
7. Sophomore Stunt.
8. Glee Club.
9. Freshman Stunt.
10. Jazz Orchestra.
11. Senior Stunt.
12. Oh Davidson.

TIGERS SMOTHER WILDCATS
(Continued from page 1)

Last fall, the Virginia Presbyterians brought a much underrated team to Wearn Field, and when the fray was over, the Davidson team was glad to claim a tie. This season, however, no one underrated the ability of the Hampden-Sydney wrecking crew, for they had tied Virginia and held V. P. I. for three quarters. In the latter stages of the game, the Davidson quarter, finding that his backs could gain but little through the Tigers’ stone-wall line, ordered passes continually in a desperate effort to score. For a time, late in the third quarter, it looked as if the Wildcats would push across a counter, but muffed signals snuffed out all chances for a score and the ball went to Hampden-Sydney. In the drive, Davidson had taken the ball in midfield, due to an exchange of punts, and through a pass, Grey to Wells, had carried the oval to the 25-yard line. A pass failed, but the opponents were offside, and on the next play, Grey tossed the ball to Arrowood, who tore down the sideline and across the goal but stepped out of bounds on the one-yard marker. A line play failed to put the ball across, and on the next play came the miscue referred to above. This was the only real threat made by the Wildcats. Hampden-Sydney’s second score was the result of an excellent passing attack. Taking the ball on the 45-yard line, the Tigers instigated an overhead game that ended in a 15-yard heave to Atkins, who paced the remaining feet to the goal line. Dick Grey blocked the attempted point. Shining brightly from the galaxy of Tiger stars were Richardson, Atkins, and Palmer. The first named warrior did not enter the contest until late in the game but proved his worth on several occasions. Atkins, who came so near wrecking Davidson’s hopes last autumn, played brilliant ball throughout. Dick Grey, with a 45-yard dash in the early part of the game, and who played consistently good ball throughout, and Bohannon, take the honors for Davidson. “Bo,” who had played a good game at tackle while Lincoln was hurt, was back at his old position, end. In the closing seconds of play, he snagged a pass for a 40-yard gain only to be stopped.

Selby Ice Cream Co.
GOOD ICE CREAM
Statesville, N. C.

LANCE QUALITY PRODUCTS
Delivered same day made.
LANCE PACKING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
All dealers

even the price $35 to $50
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The first man up, in any dormitory, wears the Braeburn - to be a step ahead the rest of the day. He knows that everything about Braeburn is exclusively collegiate.

MELLON’S

W. E. PRICE
30 W. 5th St.
W. E. PRICE INSURANCE AGENCY
“PROTECTION PLUS SERVICE”
R. L. PRICE
CHARLOTTE, N. C.