THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson, N. C., as Second Class Mail Matter.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. .......... Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES ............ Business Manager
W. L. LINGLE .................. Managing Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH ........ Assistant Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN ............... Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS ............... Athletic Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN .......... Associate Editor
KENNETH BELL ............... Associate Editor
F. B. PEERY .................. Associate Editor
M. P. CRAWFORD ............. Alumni Editor
E. L. DOUGLASS .............. Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
M. P. CRAWFORD ............. Assistant Business Manager
E. L. DOUGLASS .............. Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE ................. Assistant Business Manager
J. A. McALPINE .............. Subscription Manager
W. L. ALBRIGHT .............. Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY ............ Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
W. S. GORDON
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas.
JOHN GWIN
W. H. ALLISON
H. M. AUSTIN
C. L. BRAGAW
W. T. COVINGTON
W. T. DAVIS
T. J. JONES
R. H. McILWAINE
J. P. McKNIGHT
A. M. SPARROW
L. G. WHARTON
B. WILSON

EDITORIAL

The Duke University Chronicle wonders where Luther Burbank is picking flowers now.

King George’s hat is a size 6 3-4 while President Coolidge’s is 7 1-4. All patriotic citizens will please note with deep satisfaction.

The Peace Oratorical Contest in Shearer Hall last Monday night developed into a strenuous battle, as six representatives of North Carolina colleges battled against each other for a coveted monetary award. The first contest between Davidson and Sewanee was held last Friday night at Sewanee, and was in the form of a lively debate. This should prove an opening wedge, and perhaps lead to closer ties between these two colleges, both of whom seem to have so much in common. Literary contests, then athletic battles—who knows where this newly established rivalry will lead?

One scientist says everything in the universe is electricity, and another says we all are nothing but highly organized mildew. Students can take their choice of these two latest scientific theories.

Commencement—diplomas for some, disappointments for others.

PROHIBITION—YES OR NO

The famous eighteen-day battle between the wets and the drys of the nation at the Senate hearing has passed into history, and the opponents are counting their gains and losses. “Prohibition,” says the New York Times, “has been proved to be either a tragic failure of monumental proportions or a success and a blessing, according to which side happens to be discussing the great engagement.”

The evidence for and against prohibition is now filed away in the archives of the Senate committee, and it is certain that the drys will seek to keep it there, while the wets will undoubtedly attempt to get it out and use it as a basis for enacting legislation in repeal of the present Volstead law. Just what will be the final outcome of the fight on this issue, it is not safe to predict; but it is true that never before has the American public entered so fervently into a battle over legislative enactment.

While this all-American battle, which is attracting attention from all quarters of the globe, is at a temporary standstill, the American Federation of College Students is seeking to ascertain the opinions of college students on this momentous issue. They have requested a poll of opinions from Davidson students, and The Davidsonian is hastening to aid them in this matter. Elsewhere in this issue there is notice of the ballot to be taken, and a comprehensive survey of the main issues involved in the question of prohibition.

Davidson students are perhaps already acquainted with the issues, but lest the ballot be conducted in a frivolous manner, The Davidsonian has attempted to give the more important arguments advanced by the two factions. The ballots will be distributed at the chapel exercises Saturday morning, and at that time students will be asked to vote “yes” or “no” on the question of prohibition, and also to give briefly their reasons for favoring or opposing the eighteenth amendment. It would be well for students to familiarize themselves with the arguments both pro and con, and have their reasons prepared before coming to chapel.

For the success of the poll, it is necessary that every student express an opinion, and that his expression be submitted in full seriousness. It should be remembered that the results of this poll, along with the opinions expressed, are to be forwarded to the headquarters of the Federation, and there they will be taken as conclusive evidence of the position held by Davidson students on this all-important dispute. For a student to take the matter lightly, and to submit a ballot which he has prepared in a spirit of frivolity, will not only discredit his own intelligence, but will tend to throw the wrong light on the opinion of the Davidson student-body as a whole.

A WORTHY CAUSE

Davidson students and faculty rejoice in the fact that a campaign is now being carried on in the south to secure funds for the establishment of a memorial to Woodrow Wilson at Staunton, Va., the birthplace of the famous war-president. The record that Wilson made during his public career has reflected no little glory on America as a whole, and on Davidson in particular, since the President was at one time in his youth a student at our college. The quota to be raised in North Carolina is $50,000 and a large proportion of this amount was raised during the first week of the campaign. Mr. Wade H. Williams, chairman of the Mecklenburg County headquarters, has expressed considerable praise for the manner in which North Carolinians have responded to this call. The funds thus secured will be used in converting the house in which Wilson was born into a perpetual memorial, furnishing it with furniture, books and periodicals, and other relics of Mr. Wilson’s time. A share of the funds will also be used in restoring the famous old chapel on the grounds of Mary Baldwin College, adjoining the birthplace of the famous president. It was in this chapel that Mr. Wilson’s father preached, and it was there also that the man, who was destined to lead the world through its greatest conflict, was baptized as an infant. Funds are also being raised at this time to erect on the campus of Mary Baldwin College a memorial building to be known as the Wilson Memorial Hall. The whole will form a birthplace to the late president and a shrine which will prove a permanent inspiration to America.

A WANING PRESTIGE

There was a time, not so many years ago, that Davidson students found a distinct thrill in forensic contests. There was a time when the walls of Old Shearer and the literary society halls resounded with glory—that had come to Davidson men as a result of their continuous victories over opposing colleges in the forum. Davidson had won and was maintaining a prestige along literary lines that was at once the object of admiration and envy of other southern colleges. The Davidsonian of past years is replete with accounts of victories for Davidson in the field of intellectual combat, and Davidson alumni still look back on this record with a feeling of justifiable pride. The old thrill has not been lost in forensic contests, and the competition offers just as keen interest as ever before, but Davidson students are seemingly content to rest on the laurels of past years. In spite of the fact that the Forensic Council is today arranging debates with the leading universities and colleges of the country, there is a lagging interest on the part of local students and an imminent possibility of Davidson losing the prestige that was once hers in these lines of intellectual endeavor. A few weeks ago when a Davidson debating team met the University of Pittsburgh, there was hardly more than a hundred students in the small audience that gathered to hear the arguments of the two teams.the youth of teams. And Pittsburgh won! A week later, another Davidson team clashed with orators from the Virginia Polytechnic Institute, and there were only thirty-three Davidson students in the little audience of sixty-six persons who heard the debate. And the V. P. I. team won. It would not be fair for The Davidsonian to lay the entire blame for these two defeats on the Davidsonian students. But, we do contend that on each of the two Davidson teams there were men who in past years had made a remarkable showing against opposing orators, and this year their speeches to a large degree lacked the old fire and spirit that had made them victorious in the past. We know further that these men had spent just as much time in the preparation of their arguments as ever in the past, and that today they have the same potentialities they had last year and the year before. It would seem, therefore, that a large degree of the blame must be placed on the shoulders of the hundreds of Davidson students who were content to sit in their rooms or loll about the drug store while the debates were in progress. If there is a prevalent idea that debating teams need no support from the student body, that they can fight their battle alone, and that a large audience of supporters is not an asset to debaters—then it is high time that this idea was being discarded. The competition along intellectual lines is just as strenuous as the competition on the athletic field; and support is needed just as badly. There is need for a reformation! Davidson students, if they intend to maintain the record of glory that was won only after years of hard work, must support their debating teams; and must combine their efforts toward reviving a waning prestige.

Our Mothers: A Tribute to the Truest Friends of All

It is fitting that Mother’s Day, the day of all the year when we pause long enough to return full homage to our mothers, should be at this beautiful season of spring. It is now that nature beckons for us to bow in adoration to God’s bounty as expressed in His handiwork, the green trees, the budding flowers, an infinite blue sky and all things growing and beautiful. At such a time as this we are minded to repay in some small measure the debt of love we owe our mothers. In the enjoyment of the many blessings and gifts that are bestowed upon us, we cannot forget that all we have, all that we expect to be, we owe to our mothers who gave us birth. In the love of all creation, we should hold them first—the greatest and noblest gift of a divine hand. The devotion of a mother is tender and beautiful. Her life is a living example of unremitting toil and sacrifice for her children. In them she sees the embodiment of all her hopes and ideals. Their lives are entwined with her inmost heartstrings. Her fervent prayer is that their destinies may be guided aright, and that she may live long enough to see the realization of her highest aspirations. No man has ever achieved success or greatness who was not prompted by his mother. Even in death her influence lingers on like the faint perfume from a half-opened casket of delightful fragrance. The destinies of nations are bound within a mother’s grasp. The state and all its ideals owe its existence to her. The love of a mother transcends all earthly loves. It is moved by the creative instinct and furthered by the highest promptings that emanate from heaven. It is pure and holy as the first flush of dawn in a cloudless sky. It is divine in its conception of duty and devotion. It is bound up by every fiber and tendril of a mother’s heart. She had this love for us before we were born and during the sojourn in the dark valley she learned to strengthen it. The smiles that appeared on baby faces were reflected in the tender eyes where the love light shone like a candle at twilight. Mother love is like a spark of divine fire sent from heaven to kindle the flames of ambition and feeling for all mankind. It is as beautiful as a bead of dew that glistens like a pearl in the sunlight of a June morning. It is sturdy and staunch as the everlasting hills whose summits fade into the blueness of the horizon. On Mother’s Day, then, we should show and profess our love for the ones we know to be dearest to us. Our lives are only the expressions of their highest ideals and we should shape them by the examples they have set before us. Our love goes out to them in an undying stream—our Mothers, the noblest and the purest of God’s creatures.

The closet fellow in the world lives in South Carolina. He was ordering a shroud from the undertaker before he died, and he insisted upon having pockets in it.

Minor Chords

To Thee, Fair Flower of Immortality,
A plant of heaven whose leaf shall never fade;
To Thee, Best Gift to all Humanity,
This note of praise from heart to heart is made.

To Thee, Far-reaching Voice from earth to skies,
Ere yet I oped my eyes on this dark earth,
My name by Thee incessantly did rise—
Invoking blessings on the one giv'n birth.

To Thee, Bright Light to all that’s pure and fine,
Who turns my midnight into glorious day;
In love unceasing shall these lays of mine
Express my thanks in words as best I may.

Thou art the One who risked thy life for mine—
What do I have I do not owe to Thee?
ALL do I owe to that dear heart of thine—
From childhood Thou art everything to me.
—Harllee Bordeaux.

—FREDERICK SMITH.

Open Forum

ANENT THE NEW SCREENS

Students are urged to refrain from removing, mistreating, or defacing the new screens which have been placed in the windows of all the dormitories within the past few weeks. It was only after a long and aggressive battle on the part of Mrs. N. T. Smith, our beloved supervisor of dormitories, that these new screens were secured and installed, and the success of her efforts will not be fully assured until after students have demonstrated their appreciation of her work. Last year Mrs. Smith realized the need for screens in the dormitories, and began a campaign to secure an appropriation for this improvement. She was faced with aggressive opposition in some quarters, the opposition chiefly contending that the students would not allow the screens to remain in place, or that within a few weeks after installation the screens would be disfigured and mistreated. Mrs. Smith, with her characteristic confidence in the students, quietly replied that she was sure that Davidson students would not be so unappreciative as they had been pictured, and as a result of her faith in the loyalty of the students, the appropriation was recently secured. The new screens, in addition to adding beauty to the dormitories, afford considerable protection to the occupants, who have heretofore been unable to leave windows open due to the fact that moths and insects were attracted to the rooms and in through the open windows because of the brilliance of the electric lights burning in the dormitories. Mrs. Smith has performed a valuable service for the students (“her boys”), and it is not asking too much that students support her in her efforts to prove to all parties concerned that Davidson students are not as inconsiderate and as destructive as some persons have cared to picture them.
EUNO.

Mr. Algernon Spike Highcollar, the popular announcer for The Scarlet Disturber’s Broadcasting Station, wishes to thank his many unseen admirers for the letters and telegrams that he has been receiving. All the fair sex seems to have fallen for his sweet voice and are anxious to know what he looks like and whether or not he is married. For the benefit of all these girls and especially the one out in Arizona who proposed by telegram last night, we will say the following: Mr. Highcollar is five feet tall, weighs 180 pounds, is married and has three children, all over twelve years old. He chews tobacco, and for ten years has sung tenor in the Methodist Church. We thank you.