FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 16, 1926

ONIAN DOCTOR MAR TRUE AIM OF COLLEGE WORK IN ANNUAL TALK

College President States That No Institution is a College Unless Its Chief Aim is Intellectual Concentration

Declaring that some students had given serious thought to the purpose of a college education and that others had rather hastily considered it as a routine in their lives, Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college, delivered his annual address to the student body last Monday morning. Dr. Martin had delayed the delivery of his address until Monday in order to allow students to get settled in college before placing before them the ideas which he included in his talk. His address was brief and pointed, and was a plea for more earnest consecration to the serious purposes of a college education.

“If the objective of the institution is not intellectual it is miscalled a college,” declared Dr. Martin, “and had better be known by another name.” Opening with this thought, Dr. Martin explained at some length the necessity for a concentrated effort on the part of colleges to develop personality and mentality in their students.

“In some measure all humans are thinking creatures—but not all humans think clearly, connectedly, nor are they capable of sustained thinking. Their thinking is shallow, superficial, incoherent, short-lived. The most painful thing most people can undertake is sustained thought or reasoning,” he declared.

A goodly portion of the president's discourse was given to an explanation of a modern system of college instruction, which is rapidly gaining prestige throughout the country. That system leads to thinking not of the course but of the student as a unit, and it is under this system that courses are mapped, diagramed, and divided in such a way as to promote intellectual growth.

(Continued on page 6)

Trustees Add Eight New Professors to Faculty

All Are Students of Note of Their Respective Studies and Courses

Five new professors have been added to the faculty of Davidson for the scholastic year of 1926-27 and three have returned after a year's leave of absence. Of these eight, three are themselves graduates of Davidson and the others are equally as well prepared and are all students of note in the subjects which they are teaching.

Dr. Frazer Hood returns to take his place as head of the Psychology department after a year of travel in Europe and a study of conditions there. He was granted a year’s leave of absence for the past year in order to do this.

Prof. Henry T. Lilly has been added to the English department, teaching first and second-year subjects as well as one advanced section. Professor Lilly is a graduate of Davidson and Princeton and has also been a student at the University of Vienna and also at Oxford. During the past summer, he has been traveling on the Continent again. For the past two years, he has been teaching at the Presbyterian College of South Carolina.

Mr. Scott C. Lyon comes to take his place as head of the Biology department. For a number of years, he has been holding the same position at Southwestern Presbyterian University. He is a graduate of Southwestern and also of Tulane. During the past winter, he has been attending the University of Chicago.

Mr. Luther B. Henderson, a graduate of the University of New York, and Yale, and for two years a student in German universities as a Yale Fellow, comes to Davidson as professor of Education and Sociology.

A number of mouth organs imported for the work, which can be done without injury to the concrete. A moving picture show was the concluding feature of the evening and the entire student body and faculty were the guests of the Y. M. C. A. The “Y" cabinet was assisted in the entertainment of the guests by the Student Council.

DAVIDSON SONG NOW ON RECORD

“O Davidson,” known to hundreds of alumni of Davidson College and thousands of football fans who hear it sung frequently at gridiron classics, has appeared as a musical record. This lively piece of music was played for recording by the Jazz Pilot, with Harry Riser as director. The vocal part is sung by Ernest Hare. On the opposite side is “Yea Alabama.” It is reported that “O Davidson” is made by three different companies, but this has not been verified. The ones which have appeared on the Davidson campus are made by the Okey people.

Reception for New Men Given Monday

The Y. M. C. A., in keeping with its yearly custom, welcomed the Freshman class at a reception at the Gymnasium from 7:30 until 10 o'clock last Monday evening. The new men and the Seniors were invited to be present at 7:30 and the other two classes at 8:30. The receiving line was composed of the faculty members of the college and their wives. The Freshmen, after meeting the faculty, were served with refreshments, ice cream and cake and punch, and there followed a short social period in which they had an opportunity to meet the men of their own and of the Senior classes.

Stadium Will be Ready for Alumni Homecoming

Mr. Webster, that great lover of words, is authority for the following: Freshman—one in the first state of knowledge. All things must have a beginning. Only the fittest live on to see the end. And there’s a long, long trail awaiting.

Records mean nothing in recording first impressions of a freshman class. Of course, it has a longest and a shortest; a baby jumbo and tiny Tom. A certain percentage belong to the Brown, Smith, Johnson, and Jones families. This percentage of the favored is for alumni homecoming.inevitable. The remainder of hoi polloi have picked up whatever name they could, or rather whatever name their paternal ancestors were bold enough to assign. Dr. Wm. J. Martin, president of the college, opened a short program with an address on behalf of the administration. It was mentioned that the concrete work is to begin by October 1st. The men of the class were so numerous that for convenience they had been carefully selected from all for convenience under the heading: freshmen green. You remember the numerous candidates for admission and the opportunities offered by the institution. 

J. F. Pinkney, president of the student body, made a brief talk following that of Dr. Martin. Pinkney told the new men of the traditions of the school and pointed out the spirit of Davidson and the importance of upholding the honor and policies of the student body. 

The president of the Y. M. C. A., W. A. Christian, spoke of the ideals of the “Y” at Davidson and its past history. He cordially invited the new men to the “Y” services and urged them to make the most of the opportunities. 

H. S. and L. Richardson of Greensboro are donors of the handsome stadium at Davidson. Work on the stadium is progressing rapidly, with concrete pouring set to begin Monday. All of the concrete will be completed by October 1st, said Z. P. Board, who is in charge of the work. After that, there will be considerable touching up necessary, such as brick work. 

Figures are not available as to the exact cost, but it is estimated to be $25,000. The stadium is considered one of the finest athletic fields in the South, and when completed, the college will have the most excellent athletic facilities in this section. 

STUDENTS RETURN FOR NINETY-FIRST SESSION OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Dr. Martin Gives Welcome — Six Hundred and Thirty-Four Students Register — Four Less Than Last Year

Davidson College formally opened its 91st session last Thursday morning at 8:30 o'clock, when 634 students, four less than in 1925, assembled in Shearer Hall for the opening exercises. The latter were brief, consisting principally of announcements to the new men. The president of the college, Dr. W. J. Martin, said a few words of welcome but deferred his annual address before students until Monday, September 13th. 

Tuesday and Wednesday of last week were spent in registering the new men, the majority of them being on the campus before Wednesday morning. All but 50 of the 226 Freshmen arrived as requested by the college. The first-year men were adequately cared for by the Y. M. C. A., of which J. M. Appleby, of Florence, is general secretary. He has directed the work, being assisted by W. A. Christian, of Mobile, Ala., president of the “Y”; S. Broyles, of Meridian, Miss., chairman of the entertainment committee; W. S. Woods, of China; F. C. Withers, of Columbia; J. B. Webb, of Clearwater, Fla.; and S. E. Wilkins, of Rocky Mount. 

The matter of registering the students at Davidson this year was facilitated to a great degree through correspondence between the registrar and the former student before they arrived. Once the student was on campus, it did not take long to run the entire gamut of offices. Through the addition of new professors, the college curriculum has been expanded. 

Five Davidson Students Attend “Y” Conference

McAlpine, Bradford, Mauzy, Spier, and Graham Are Delegates at Blue Ridge

The annual conference of the Young Men's Christian Association of the Southern colleges was held at Blue Ridge, in the mountains of western North Carolina, from the 15th to the 25th of June. At this conference, held in one of the most beautiful spots in the South, were representatives from practically every Southern college for men. Davidson was well represented with five delegates: J. A. McAlpine, W. Bradford, Hampton Mauzy, Spier, and Graham. 

The primary purpose of the Blue Ridge conference was to study the problems of student life, and in discussions, to try to determine how these problems might best be overcome. To assist in the solution, men of world renown were present. In the discussion groups, the men became acquainted with the way in which other colleges dealt with their problems, and the best methods were then discussed. 

There were several excellent speakers, but the three most famous might be said to be Dr. Sherwood Eddy, Dr. Mordecai Johnson, and Dr. J. Stitt Wilson. Dr. Eddy was probably the most powerful speaker of the convention—his main topic for discussion was “Militarism in Our Schools and Colleges.” Dr. Eddy, himself a chaplain in the World War, delivered several forceful addresses on this much-discussed topic. Dr. Mordecai Johnson, a negro, was a very keen and clear-thinking speaker. He is one of the most prominent men of his race. Dr. Johnson spoke on ‘Racial Relations.’