THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1926

TWO WILDCATS CHOICE OF ALL-STATE

Two Wildcat players, Grey and Bohannon, were placed on the composite all-state team by the fans of the state. One
of these men, Dick Grey, was the second most popular with the fans, being second only to Bill Riley, of
Wake Forest. Most of the positions, especially that of fullback, were very closely contested. Spurlock, of Lenoir-Rhyne, and Outen, of
State, ran an especially close race for the fullback position, with Spurlock finally winning out with a lead of 11
points. The position of right tackle was also decided by a very small margin. Morehead, of Carolina, won out in
the end, however, polling 229 votes to 201 for Thompson, of Duke.

The interest in the choosing of this composite all-state team was very great. Fans from all parts of the state
sent in their picks. A total of 51 players in all were named by the different fans. There were 165
fans in all who sent in their picks, making the team a really true all-state team. Carolina and Wake Forest
each placed three men on the team, State and Davidson each placed two on it, and the eleventh place was
filled by Spurlock, of Lenoir-Rhyne. This is the first all-state team ever chosen by the fans of North Carolina. The
interest was so high, however, and the response was so great and widespread that this practice will probably be repeated
next year and every year as long as so much interest is shown.

The all-state teams as selected by North Carolina football fans in the survey sponsored by the Raleigh News and Observer
is as follows:

Left end: Riley, Wake Forest; left tackle, Emmerson, Wake Forest; left guard, Whisnant, Carolina; center, Schwartz, Carolina; right guard, Nicholson,
State; right tackle, Morehead, Carolina; right end, Rackley, Wake Forest; quarterback, Grey, Davidson; left half, McDowall, Wake Forest; right half,
Bohannon, Davidson; fullback, Spurlock, Lenoir-Rhyne.

The second team selected is: Left end, McMurray, Carolina; left tackle, Thompson, Duke; left guard, Boggs, Davidson; center, McConnell, Davidson;
right guard, Jones, Duke; right tackle, Phelps, Wake Forest; right end, Bennett, Duke; quarterback, Wilson, Davidson; left half, Ober, Wake
Forest; right half, Wells, Davidson; fullback, Outen, State.

Paper Raises Wildcat Mentor at Wilmington

Bob Black, ’22, Has Had Successful Season as Coach

The following is an editorial from the Wilmington Star, on the work of Bob Black, ’22, as coach at Wilmington
High, where he is inculcating into his players the spirit of fair play and fight:

Mr. R. L. Black, who is known to the High School student body and several thousand Wilmington fans who have
followed the destinies of the New Hanover High football team as “Fightin’ Bob,” has rounded out his fourth year as
gridiron mentor at the local high school and while he has not won a state championship he has accomplished something
much bigger and finer—instilled into his team a spirit of fairness and sportsmanship that will never get very far below
the surface in the long journey that lies ahead of these boys as they trudge along life’s highway. Mr. Black
has not lifted his team to Fame’s pinnacle but he has molded the thoughts of these boys along proper lines,
making them greater in defeat than they might have been for another in victory. The championship is still a vagary,
something to be looked forward to, while the character he has built in the boys under his influence is an
actuality and will be reflected in the conduct and bearing of all who have come under his influence.

Given another year it is entirely possible that Mr. Black may produce a championship team. In taking over the duties
of coach, he faced a gigantic task. He found it necessary to change the entire system. Much that had been
learned by the boys had to be forgotten. The natural result was a weak team. But in the years that
have rolled by the serious-eyed, silent pilot has plugged here and patched there until his team was a distinct credit
to the institution it represented. Twice Mr. Black has led the boys to the base of the summit only to
see them turned back, but in neither instance was an apology necessary. It is to the credit of those boys
who carried the Black and Gold standard this year that they played clean ball. They were gentlemen on and off
the field and their record is one they may justly feel proud of.

There is no argument about the title for 1926. The Wildcats beat Carolina, State, and Duke, and tied the Wake
Forest Demon Deacons. Wake Forest, the nearest competitor, was licked by State, and that settles it. Charlotte and Mecklenburg should
be proud of the Wildcats for their splendid feat. I rather think the folks around here are rather puffed up
about it. All I heard on the streets was praise for the Wildcats and their championship feat.

Now that the smoke of ten hectic gridiron battles has blown aside, and our sporting horizon is left fairly clear,
it is interesting to note a change in form (or pace, or what have you) on the part of many
sportswriters in the Old North State with reference to the football abilities of eleven husky Wildcats of Davidson. It is
also a source of pride to Davidson men to read the observations of those sport scribes, who less opinionated, had
no last-minute repentance to make for their unsuccessful predictions at the beginning of the past football season.

Old Wallace J. Minshull, who writes a lively sports column in the Greensboro Daily Record, comes mighty near to expressing
our sentiments concerning the unsuccessful predictions of certain sport scribes, who at the first of the season predicted that Davidson
would do well to win a third or fourth place in the state championship race. Here's his expression: “Davidson's winning
of the state pennant came as a surprise to all, but not much of a surprise it was to the
experts who had positively stated that the Presbyterians could not hope for better than third place. Which goes to prove
that listening to the experts may be all right, providing you bet the other way.”

Cecil Wilson, humorist and syndicated writer for a number of North Carolina papers, fell in line to commend Davidson when
he said; “Well, Jake Wade says Davidson beat Carolina. Davidson has a good team and I believe...”more true sportsmanship than
most any college I know of unless it is Wake Forest, or Duke, or Carolina, or Guilford, or Elon, or
some of the other big colleges. But, kidding, I have never known Davidson to play a dirty game in any
branch of athletics, and if Davidson beats my team I know it was on the square, because Davidson had rather
an unfair advantage, called ‘spirit’ is an inseparable running mate with the Red and Black outfits, which invariably makes them
a desperate foe. Incidentally, I wonder if the coaching staff hasn't something to do with this offspring of harmony. The
Davidson squad this year displayed well-grounded rudiments of the game. They played intense football. This is always gratifying. Her forward
line was not strong. Her backfield was not strong; but together they functioned; and not indifferently either. . . live
Davidson!” And Marvin Ritch, former coach and player at Carolina, who picks all-state teams for the Charlotte News, adds his
word of tribute to the Davidson Wildcats: “All hail the King. Davidson College is the 1926 football champions of the
state. As for this thing called spirit? I see Long without any for a post-season skirmish became absolutely unnecessary, and
there is no fair-minded sport in the state who is not willing to take his hat off, and slip the
Mecklenburg County institution, its players and coaches, the right hand of fellowship upon their accomplishments this season. Ideal football psychology
existing at all times on the campus; and with a bunch of hustling, clean, well-behaved young men there to carry
the colors of their school, friends, and alumni, the alumni of that place have nothing to worry about, unless it
should be the ill-effects to be watched for as a result of winning a championship. Just that word of caution,
and then hands are yours. Then we stand with our heads uncovered in your presence and extend to you our
sincere congratulations upon the attainment on your part of the state championship of intercollegiate football this year!”

I can say that with a straight face, because I played against Davidson once, and Davidson is about the only
college in the state that I have not attended as a freshman.

“Teamwork, fighting players, two excellent coaches, and a student body that backed the players and mentors—seem to have been the
determining factors which contributed to Davidson's winning the state championship title,” began a syndicated story which appeared in a number
of North Carolina papers last week. And, Jake Wade, pessimism over Davidson’s chances to win a state title helped more
than any other thing toward keeping the Wildcats from becoming fatally overconfident after their repeated victories, deserves something more than
the usual “cussing out” he has received around these parts.

A Low Tree
There's one thing about Jake—he says what he thinks, and usually what he thinks is sufficiently plausible to attract comment
(either favorable or unfavorable) in all sections of the state—and that’s something most writers cannot boast. Old Jake made a
whirlwind tour of the state football camps in the early fall, and then wrote his idea of how the different
college teams would place in the championship race. Jake was honest, but somehow his usual good luck at “picking winners”
had deserted him. Back in September Jake was sure Davidson would show up poorly, and he had to sort of
stretch the point to predict that she'd even win a third place. Davidson's winning of the State Title must have
been a bitter pill to Jake, but he swallowed it like a man—and what's more he even became enthusiastic over
the Wildcat success. Read what he had to say a few days ago and compare it with his gloomy observations
of a few weeks past: “Congratulations, Monk and Tex, and all your fighting Wildcats and loyal supporters. Winning a state
championship in football these days is no mean feat. You had to encounter keen competition on the gridiron this season,
but it fell before the onslaught of your quick, sharp offensive.

Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DEVELOPING ENLARGING PHOTOGRAPHY CAMPUS VIEWS REFINISHING
W. A. ALEXANDER
43 EAST

Regen Makes Talk
It has been reported that nineteen men on Davidson’s football squad this year have played their last game for their
Alma Mater. The strong Davidson team has won much favorable comment, but the spirit displayed is what has received most
of the commendations. Not especially to win, but to fight, and to fight with unselfish motives, seems to have been
the motive uppermost in the minds of the players. Such as this speaks well for any college.

The Volunteer Band held its regular meeting last Sunday morning, and, after a short devotional, the program for the day
was entered upon. The Band has been studying the “History of Missions,” by considering one mission field each week. Africa
was the topic for discussion and was ably presented by H. L. Campbell. In the introduction of his talk he
spoke of the size of Africa, and gave some interesting information regarding its people and geographical conditions. In the north,
Egypt with its modern Atheism is a barrier to the missionary. Then Mohammedanism sweeping across Africa in a great wave
that threatens to engulf the entire continent, although the missionaries are making valiant efforts to erect a barrier of Christianity
against it. In this struggle all denominations of the Christian church are represented. Although missionaries have been working in Africa
since the time of Christ, a great work is yet to be done. Great heroes like Moffett and Livingstone and
humbler workers as well have contributed to the cause of wresting this great continent away from the forces of fear
and darkness which have held it in bondage for so long. The latter part of the program was cut short
to allow E. K. Regen, '26, to speak to the Band. He brought a short message of greeting and encouragement
in which he told something of his life at Louisville Seminary.

N. C. C. W.—“I kissed him when he wasn’t looking.”
G. C. W.—“What did he do?”
N. C. C. W.—“He wouldn't look at me for the rest of the evening.”

Smart Styled Clothes For College Men Tailored At Rochester
It requires months of roaming the odd places of Europe to assemble the multitude of original fabric ideas that have
made Braeburn Smart Styled Clothes for College Men famous. Know Braeburn Clothes once and swear allegiance forever.
$35 to $50
MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
