6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 18, 1925

Furman Wins, 40-33, as Final Davidson Rally Threatens to Win Game

Captain Frank Alford Leads Eighteen Baseball Players in Initial Practice

body at present who are undecided as to their life work, and Dr. Ogden hopes that he will get to
talk to as many as is possible. The hours at which he will speak to the entire student body will
be at chapel exercises and at night right after supper. He will also preach at the regular morning service next

Davidson Five Defeats Charlotte Aggregation by Three-Point Margin

Coach Younger sounded the call to Laird and Huie Lead Attack in Scoring 22 Points in Last Half

(Special to Daily News)

The Purple Hurricane of Furman University continued its triumphant march through North Carolina Saturday night by defeating Davidson 40 to
33. Brabham, sharp-shooter of Billy Laval’s quint, ran wild in the first half and gave the visitors a commanding lead
that the fighting Wildcats could not overcome in the second half, although they played the South Carolina quint off its
feet in the last stages of the contest.

Furman swept off into a quick lead and with Brabham caging baskets from all corners of the court quickly rolled
up a score on Davidson. Many of the shots caged by Brabham and his teammates came from back of the
foul line. The visitors gave the prettiest exhibition of long-distance shooting seen on the local floor this year. When the
half ended Furman led, 26 to 11, but the Wildcats came back strong and with Laird leading the attack scored
22 points to 14 for Furman. Brabham was smothered throughout the final period and could not get loose to uncork
his bewildering tosses.

Line-up:
Furman, Gorman (12) Davidson.
Position.
Laird (12) Huie (12) Left forward
Smith (10) Wilson (2)
Brabham (13) Aindetsotis() Right forward
Byrne Right guard
Harrison (1) Wilkins (3) Left guard

Substitutions—Davidson: Simpson (2). Furman: McGee, Black (2), Gibson. Referee: Clarence Rawson (Georgia).

WILDCATS

Have those old shoes rebuilt. Service is our watchword
E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP
Representatives STEVE WALL and J. A. LAW

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

Two Football Games to Play in Game Saturday

Black and Wells to Captain the Opposing Teams

The first spring football game of the year for the Davidson Wildcats will be played next Saturday afternoon on Richardson
Field at 2:30 o'clock between the “Reds” and the “Blacks.” This contest comes at the close of the first three
weeks of the spring practice period. Coach Tilson announced the early part of the week that the squad had been
divided and gave out a prospective line-up. The two teams are head by two football captains, “Wick” Black, captain of
the Wildcat eleven of last year, leading the “Blacks,” and Lucian Wells, captain-elect of Davidson's 1926 machine, in charge of
the “Reds.” Nine letter men are scheduled to start the game. Five Freshmen, most of whom made numerals on the
Wildkitten aggregation last fall, will start their first varsity game.

Halfway

This game comes at the end of the halfway mark in the spring training period, as Coach Tilson has announced
that work will continue until the middle of March, with regular Saturday afternoon games each week. No game with an
outsider, such as was played with Hickory Athletic club last year, will be attempted this spring. Assisting Coach Tilson, in
teaching these men, some 55 in all, the rudiments of the game, have been Freshman Coach Mattox, Tom Baker, star
tackle of last fall, and “Rosy” McMillan.

Hendrix Referee

J. P. Hendrix, for four years one of the mainstays in the Davidson backfield, will referee. The other officials will
be announced later. The two teams, announced by Coach Tilson, that will start the game are as follows:

“Blacks” Position. “Reds”
SOHHIN Olleccascuwce lbidesccuneous Pinkney
Inco eaeeesaseaae iiltecsscctass Arrowood
Mitchalbesces coe 222 Geos c sae Lefevre
McConnell, R.------- Ge eae Sim
MGGOlGaneosesccces RGsceceue Holmgreene
AWS esee se coo Rioscasadeaee Jennings
McEachern___.-.___ Riso ces 5 ees Wearn
BBOkKN(G)ccascucee Batkisucccace Greys
eas Se Backss-ccccce28 Leggette
BN Vitisseo esos Backeseecce es ‘i Keel
Paescen eos Backeeeseceessue

Others

In addition to these men a number will more than likely have a chance to get into the game. Included
in this list are: For the “Blacks: James, Black, S., Davis, Baker, A. W., Green, Ritchie, Smith, E. H.; and
for the “Reds”: Overton, Covington, Jennings, T., Campbell, Christian, Allen, Lawther, Carter, and Smith, S.

GLEE CLUB TO START

(Continued from page 1)

to make the trip, and in view of the splendid work done so far, it seems certain that an excellent
showing will be made on the tour and also in the contest. Talent is available to a greater extent than
ever before, finances are in good shape, and all roads point to very successful work during the rest of the
year.

SELBY ICE

Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

CREAM CO.

INSURANCE

We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price of not carrying it.
Insurance Department.
McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13)
Independence Trust Co.
Charlotte N.C.

baseball practice Monday and a large representation was present and there are still more to come from the sports of
basketball and football which are still in full swing of practice. Prospects for this year are somewhat brighter than last
year since there are a number of last year’s men back and some promising recruits from last year’s squad of
freshmen. The pitchers will be about the same with the addition of Oden who came up from last year’s freshmen.
His brother who pitched for the varsity last year will be back at the same old job. Laird with his
added experience should be better than ever while Hampton should have developed some new stuff. The infield is at present
a matter of speculation as Covington, J. W., Alford, and Simpson are missing. “Abe” Kugler it is rumored will be
tried at short with Woodham going back to his original position at first base. The other positions are open for
all comers and will present the greatest difficulties. In the outfield Vance will back with all the hitting power of
old and Davis is also looking good in the early workouts. TheOther positions are a matter of more speculation and
add to the problems of the coaching staff. If rumor is to be believed, Frank Alford will be behind the
plate when play is called for the first game. Much hard work is in view for all concerned, and if
it’s possible through work to produce a winning team, Coach Younger expects to have one.

Fraternity Basketball Initiated at Davidson
Eleven Teams Begin Practice Games in Race for Championship

With interest beginning to flag in basketball as the end of the season approaches and the beginning of baseball practice,
the followers of the cage game are promised a treat in the coming inter-fraternity basketball tournament. This is the first
time a contest of this sort has ever been attempted, but with the apparent interest that is being taken by
the fraternities, a success is assured. The contest was suggested by a fraternity member, and the suggestion was enthusiastically approved
by all the groups. Both national and local fraternities will participate, eleven teams having been formed and managers appointed. The
managers met in the parlor of Watts Saturday, and schedules for practice and for games were drawn up. An elimination
series will be played. The first series will be over by Saturday, February 20th, and the winners in this series
will go into the semi-finals and finals, while the losers in the first week's play will participate in the semi-finals
for places. The eliminations will be over by February 27th, and after a probable three-day rest, the winners will go
into the finals.

Yearly Custom
If this contest proves a success, it will doubtless mean a revival of many intramural sports that for the past
few years have apparently died down. The interest that is being taken in it makes it appear that it may
equal inter-class baseball and basketball, and as all local contests meet with the approval of the student body, there is
no reason why it should not become a yearly custom. At any rate, there is going to be a nip
and tuck battle for the victory this year as every team is putting forth every effort to be a winner,
and each is being backed strongly by its fellow fraternity brothers.

C. E. TRAINING CLASS
The Christian Endeavor Training class on Sunday at the regular hour held a very interesting meeting. The subjects for discussion
were the duties and functions of a secretary and treasurer of a C. E. Society. John Robinson made a talk
on the work and duties of the recording secretary, and C. H. Mauzy explained how to keep minutes and records
of C. E. Society. This was followed by the general discussion, which is one of the features of the class
program. The meeting was ended with a short talk by “Tink” Taylor.

Anderson and Huie Star for Wildcats in Brilliant Exhibition
Led by the spectacular shooting of Tom Anderson in the last half, backed up by the consistent playing of the
entire Davidson Wildcat aggregation, the protégés of Monk Younger last night played a brilliant brand of the cage art, to
defeat the Charlotte “Y” cagers, 42 to 39. Only a few spectators were present to witness what will perhaps be
one of the best court games this season by either aggregation. Several times the lead changed hands during the first
period, and six times during the last half the score was knotted, the Wildcats, however, maintaining the lead when there
was one in existence.

First Blood
Davidson drew the first field goal, Charlotte tying a moment later. The Linkmen then forged ahead and were leading, 6
to 4, before the Wildcats started a rally that sent them to the front, 11 to 6. Charlotte looped four
baskets and led, 14 to 11, but the team of Monk Younger shot several field goals in quick succession to
lead at half time, 19 to 14.

Andrews Star
The second period was well underway, with the shooting of Andrews starting. It was a field goal by Andrews and
then one by Anderson for Davidson, with the score being tied six times during this period, Reed of the “Y”
team shooting a field goal just before the whistle blew. The playing of Huie for the Wildcats was the most
consistent in the game, this player ringing seven field goals, but the glamour of his performance diminished slightly as compared
to the comeback of Anderson for Davidson and Andrews for Charlotte.

One Goal
Andrews chalked up only one field goal in the first half, Anderson accounting for three points for Davidson, but both
these men changed their tactics, displaying rare form, for Anderson made 12 points during the last period, Anderson dittoing this
performance.

D. C. (42) Pos. Charlotte (39)
Laird (4) R.F. Andrews (14)
Huie (14) L.F. Smith (4)
Wilson (2) C. Yates (9)
Anderson (15) R.G. Schenck (2)
Harrison (5) L.G. Post (8)

Substitutions: Davidson, Simpson (2) for Harrison; Harrison for Simpson; Budgins for Huie. Charlotte, McDonald for Andrews; Andrews for McDonald, Reed
(2) for Post. Foul shots: Davidson, six out of 14; Charlotte, five out of nine. Field goals: Davidson, 18; Charlotte,
17. Referee, Rawson (Georgia).

WELL-KNOWN SOUTHERNER (Continued from page 1)
Covington will have charge of this schedule. There are over 200 men in the student body.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS
RECORDS AND ROLLS

Professional Notices
DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314, and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5059 Residence, 1937-J

LEA
2 South Tryon Street
Telephones: Res 3419-W Over Garibaldi & Bruns Office 3171

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.
Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST
Charlotte, N. C.

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Telephone 3528

The Pilot Life Insurance Company provides a contract at one-half regular premium rates during the first five years. This liberal
feature makes it convenient for the college man to get his life insurance at his present age and carry it
for the least possible cost during college days. See that you get your protection from the Pilot.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
GREENSBORO, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, President

ANDREW
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC
OLDEST IN THE STATE
MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
