8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1926

UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
(Continued from page 1)

also showed much preparation and ability as forensic battlers. Their work tinged more of the oratorical than any of the
others, and they presented this type of speech in an excellent manner. The debate was held in Shearer Hall and
a large number of students as well as the town people attended.

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

EASTER DANCES
We have a complete line of masquerade costumes and Tuxedos for rent.
Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

AFTER THE SHOW COME BY THE SANITARY CAFE
And make the evening complete.
The Sanitary Cafe
Mooresville, N. C.

Letter Heads
Envelopes
Programs
Tickets
Send them to Brady at Statesville and they will be printed right.

Just Like the “Old Varsity”
The Suits We Are Showing Can’t Be Beat
The Name, “Fashion Park” on the Label Tells the Story
MEN’S DEPT. STREET FLOOR

The University of California shows that the students are tending to change their work from professions to either business or
academic lines.

Ideal Girl Picked at Mercer College
In a recent issue of The Mercer Cluster, the official student publication of Mercer University, the results of a questionnaire
as to an Ideal Girl were given. The answers varied somewhat with the answers to the questionnaire recently sent out
by The Davidsonian. The Cluster's question appeared, “What kind of a girl does the average Mercer man want?" The following
is the article describing this girl:

“In answer to this, given to a hundred students, sheiks, neckers, Glee club men, athletes, fraternity men, campus men, and
ministerial students. They readily discussed the topic, in fact they seemed anxious to express their opinion. Only one man refused
to divulge his views on the subject. He is a law student and says that there is no hope for
him—that he is destined to be a confirmed bachelor.

“The brunette was decreed to be the most popular, only three preferred a blonde spouse. The eyes were a hard
question to decide, blue and brown being equally popular. However, the combination of blue eyes and dark hair seemed to
lead the race.

“Shall she smoke? My ideal woman? NO! emphatically NO! That is what they all said. Preachers and sheiks alike, they,
without a moment's hesitation, condemned smoking in no uncertain words.

“As for the lipstick and rouge they seemed to think that it was all right if she doesn’t use it
to excess. She should be temperate in her efforts to improve on the natural beauty that she must possess. One
freshman said that she could use paint if she needed it but that she should not need the war colors.

“Some said that this mythical girl should not dance, but the majority said she could, but the public dances were
barred. As for cooking ability, yea, bo! She must have that! Every single one questioned listed that as a supreme
qualification, many wanted them to have musical ability. One hundred were for culinary art and ninety-nine for musical talent. They
all agreed that she should have religious convictions, not drink, and be inclined toward athletics.

“Two said that their ideal woman could use profanity if she desired and get real angry, but in her conversation
it was taboo. The average though...”The tallness or shortness varied a little each way. The weight of the Mercer men’s
ideal should be about a hundred and ten or fifteen pounds. One man, a small one, too, wished for a
ball and chain weighing a hundred and thirty-five pounds. We'll make no comment for he was deadly in earnest about
it—besides, that’s his business, anyway.

As a rule, money had nothing to do with it. The boys have put themselves on record as wanting to
marry for love alone. Some said that it would be nice but that it was not necessary. They do not
desire to live off their wife’s income, but to make their own living and provide for her as well. Two
men out of the hundred said they would be willing to fold their hands and sit back in an easy
chair while their wife’s money provided their daily bread. Two others were willing to invest her money for her but
not to live off her income entirely.

Common sense and plenty of it, chastity, faithfulness, an even disposition, entertaining ability, and a true parental instinct were listed
as the main personal attributes. It is surprising how his wife was going to be so pretty naturally. Forty-five thought
that bobbed hair was the prettiest, while the remainder said give a perfect but as for mixing it up in
height should be about five feet, four inches. Summing it all up, the modern gum-chewing, painted, pampered, and picture show
girl does not neck but is true blue and a yard wide is the one that the Mercer students want
to make a home for and call the "Mrs."—The Mercer Cluster.

HARLLEE BRANCH WINS (Continued from page 1)

With the exception of the oration delivered by Harllee Branch, all the other addresses contained a touch of religious thought.
C. G. Davis, who was originally chosen to participate in the contest, withdrew several days before the competition due to
the fact that he did not have sufficient time to prepare his oration. Prof. Carl Wachter acted as chairman at
the contest, and during the brief intermission delighted the audience with a number of original impersonations and witty anecdotes.

OFFICERS ELECTED (Continued from page 1)

From a long list of nominees by the student council for membership on the council next year, five men were
finally elected after two ballots had failed to produce the required number of members. W. T. Covington, of Raeford, N.
C., and W. A. Christian, of Mobile, Ala., were both elected to the council on the first vote; but it
was necessary for the class to take a second ballot to pick the other three representatives. On the run-over election
Don Stewart, Harllee Branch, Heber McIlwaine, Ernest Bohannon, and W. S. Woods were candidates. From this number Don Stewart, Heber
McIlwaine, and Ernest Bohannon were chosen. This completes the entire list of officers chosen for positions of honor by the
seniors for next year.

CHAMPION Electric Shoe Fixery
YOUR SHOES FIXED BETTER
Between White Drug Company and post office
DAVIDSON, N. C.

SMART STYLED CLOTHES FOR COLLEGE MEN SOLD EXCLUSIVELY BY
MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE - 127 West Broad Street

When you come up for those spring dances bring her in.

ARMY SALVAGE COMPANY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Army Goods and General Merchandise
NICE LINE YOUNG MEN’S DRESS TROUSERS
ALSO BASEBALL GOODS
ARMY SALVAGE CO.
Statesville, N. C.
