THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1926

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

Fellows:
You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
Davidson, N. C.

BRUISES
Apply alternately hot and cold wet cloths to bruised or abraded parts. Spread on Vicks thickly and cover with light
cloth. Repeat every few hours.
Vicks VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

WRIGLEY
More for your PK.
The best Chewing Sweet for any money

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see
FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

OH YOU UNIFORM
I miss my three-tint neckties,
I miss my silken hose,
I’ve really got to miss a lot
When I wear army clothes.

A sergeant is a guy who is given chevrons to show that he is supposed to help the captain hold
his job.

ASK ANY OF THE DOUGHBOYS
They will tell you that the first thing they learned about the war was that the girl who could dance
like a blue streak could not knit socks. The boys who go to camp will tell you that an army
cook is known by the mess he makes.

“Cohan Right!” bawled the quartermaster as he checked up on a row of figures. Fresh McGill’s batting average with a
Springfield down on the range last week was .000.

WE WONDER
Why they called ’em doughboys in France, when all of them complained of being doughless.

McRae—“Let me have two suits of underwear, please.”
Clerk—"What size?”
McRae—“Any size'll do: summer R. O. T. C.”

Cap’n Moore—“What’s ‘O. C’ stand for, George?”
Cap’n Smith—“It stands for ‘Officer in Charge,’ you dumbbell.”
Cap’n Moore—“Oh, I see.”

CAMP McCLELLAND
McCutchen—“Say, cook, got anything to eat?”
Cook—"Well, I wouldn't say I've got anything to eat, but open your mess kit and I can give you a
kitful of slum.”

Bell—“I guess I stand in pretty well with the officer of the day.”
Webb—“Howzat?”
Bell—“He came by my post last night and said, ‘Oh, what a relief!’”

Cap'n Deck—“Here, what's all this row about? Don't you know that when I’m not around the first sergeant is in
command and he is always right?”
Fresh Walser—“He says you are an old slave driver, sir.”

Diamond Dick, the hot lieutenant in Company “A” says that he was a K. P. in camp so much last
summer that he did not even get to learn how to be a soldier.

“Say there was a feller around here looking for you a minute ago.”
“Lessee—Come to think of it he had on a pair of spiral leggings and an O. D. shirt and coat.”

Captain, who has just parted two fellows who were fighting: “Here, I want you two to know that we'll have
no fighting in the army.”

Reviewing Officer—“Have you a wife?”
McGeachy—“Nein, sir.”
R. O—“Nine? Where's your war cross?”

Lieut. Shelby—“Fasten that button.”
Allison—“Which button, sir?”

She—“Am I kissed?”
Cap'n Woodrow Wilson—“Goodness, no; wasn't I in Paris when the armistice was signed?”

Ossifer—“Shay, did yuh make that face at me, huh?”
Rear Ranker—“No, sir; you just happened to walk in front of it.”

MORE TRUTH THAN WIT
A captain is known by the company he tries to keep—in ranks after the drill period is over.

“Waiter, bring me noodle soup, veal with tomato sauce, and a cream puff.”
Waiter (just back from the war)—“Bowl of submarines, camouflage the calf, and hurl me a hand grenade.”

Huie—“What did you do in the war, anyway?”
Sgt. Kirby—“Well, I lived through it.”

It takes a long tall Queens College girl to make an R. O. T. C. boy lay his rifle down.
Captain—“My boy, you could be a corporal if you didn’t drink.”
Soph—“But Captain, I feel like a General when I’m drunk.”

The first shop—Baker at Camp—“Wow, Bow! Cease firin’. I’m full of holes now.”
Doc—“As you were! This is no machine gun, you're full of dope. Fall out!”

RUNNERS BREAK THREE (Continued from page 1)
Davidson did not point in the shot put and broad jump, only one man being entered in the former. The
Wildcats blanked Carolina on the 440-yard dash, taking all three places. Carolina’s best men in this race were running in
Atlanta at the Georgia Tech relays, the South’s premier track event.

Summary:
100-yard dash—Goodykoontz (Davidson); Giersch (Carolina); Woodward (Carolina); the remaining one.time: 10 seconds. 220-yard dash—Goodykoontz (Davidson); Giersch (Carolina); Smith (Davidson); time:
22 1-2 seconds. 440-yard dash—Goodykoontz (Davidson); Smith (Davidson); Grand (Davidson); time: 52 2-5 seconds. 120-yard high hurdles—Pierson (Carolina); Anderson (Davidson);
Sims (Davidson); time: 15 1-5 seconds. 1-mile run—Underwood (Carolina); Russ (Carolina); Williford (Davidson); time: 4:51 1-5. 2-mile run—Penn (Davidson); Goodwin
(Carolina); Traverton (Davidson); time: 10:26 2-5. Half-mile—Evans (Carolina); Henley (Carolina); Pinkney (Davidson); time: 2:06. 220-low hurdles—Huggins (Carolina); Giersch (Carolina); Sims
(Davidson); time: 26 2-5. High jump—Pierson (Carolina) and R. G. Calhoun (Davidson) tied for first; Duck (Carolina) and D. M.
Calhoun (Davidson) tied for third; height: 5 feet 9 inches. Discus—Fordham (Carolina); Bohannon (Davidson); Williams (Carolina); distance: 112 feet 1
inch. Pole vault—Corbett (Carolina); McFayden (Carolina) and Anderson (Davidson) tied for second; height: 10 feet 6 inches. Shot put—Williams (Carolina);
Fordham (Carolina); Jenkins (Carolina); distance: 38 feet. Javelin—Fordham (Carolina); Jenkins (Carolina); Anderson (Davidson); distance: 164 feet 7 inches. Broad jump—Woodard
(Carolina); Ambrose (Carolina); Giersch (Carolina); distance: 21 feet 1 inch.

Dramatic Club Presents Plays at Queens College
Professor Erwin, Frederick Smith, and D. M. Currie Are Authors of These Plays

The Davidson College Dramatic Club presented three one-act plays before a large audience in the Queens College auditorium on Monday
evening at 8:00 o'clock. The performance was sponsored by the Senior class of Queens. These three plays, "A Little Bleeding,"
"Tailor-Made," and "Ellen," were all written by members of the Davidson organization, and the parts were filled from the membership
of this club. The plays offered a variety of fun and entertainment intermixed with pathos and tragedy. All three of
these plays have been produced by the Davidson organization at Davidson College and at several other places. Prof. E. J.
Erwin has full charge of the directing, and the enthusiasm with which the plays have been received at their showings
attests to the skill that has entered into the writing, acting, and direction of them. The young ladies who take
the female roles, also included in the membership of the dramatic club, were from several Davidson organizations.

ALL THE NUTS DON'T GROW ON TREES. SOME OF THEM SPEND THEIR TIME GRINDING OUT THESE LITTLE THINGS.

McRAE IS ELECTED
(Continued from page 1)

It is hoped that progress will continue and that Davidson will continue to possess one of the finest glee clubs
in the South. McRae has been very active in glee club and band activities while at Davidson. He has charge
of the R. O. T. C. band and was recently elected to membership in Scabbard and Blade, an honorary military
fraternity. McRae is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. Foster's home is in Winston-Salem. He was president of
last year’s Freshman class and has been connected with a number of activities on the hill. Foster and Green are
members of the famous Davidson quartet. Both are members of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. Green is from San Antonio,
Tex. Douglass is a member of the business staff of The Davidsonian and is connected with various activities. He is
from Augusta, Ga., and is a member of the Beta Theta fraternity.

Master Sicany, the skillful young son of Mr. and Mrs. Walter Sicany of Richmond, Va., arrived in Davidson last Tuesday
afternoon after an exciting trip over the dusty trails from home. The large crowd of feminine admirers who crowded the
curbs of Davidson in an effort to welcome their returning hero were astonished to see him clad in a flowing
costume of olive drab, decorated in egg and grease spots, the bottom of which was vividly contrasted with the colorful
beauty of a new pair of knicker sox, almost hidden in a pair of hip boots.

"Since 1868 the Home of Good Shoes"
FOR DAVIDSONIANS
WE'VE a strong line of good-looking oxfords for men who want quality and style at prices of extreme economy.
$5 to $7
GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE

LUGGAGE
Drugs, Medicines, Toilet Articles, Stationery, Candies, Kodaks
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
Barbara Lamar in "Made for Love"
NOTE: The new show at Davidson Theatre this week wants a name. To any one submitting the prize winner, we
will give a two weeks’ pass. Be the lucky person, and turn in same at once.
F. C. STOWE, Manager

WED. AND THURS.
Milton Sills in "The Unguarded Hour," First National picture.

MON. AND TUES., next week
Leatrice Joy features in "California Straight Ahead," a Universal picture.
Her last picture, "The Girl from Montmartre."
