8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 11, 1926

Many Upper Classmen Signify Their Intention to Try Out For Debates

The dates for the tryouts for the intercollegiate debating teams have been set as follows. The trials for the debate
with the University of Pittsburgh upon the query, “Resolved, that the United States should control and operate coal mines” have
been set for March 2nd. The debate proper will be held April 5th. Three men and an alternate are to
be selected for this debate. Trials for the debates with V. P. I. and the University of the South upon
the query, “Resolved, that the military forces of the United States should be consolidated into a department of national defense,
with sub-branches of army, navy and air forces,” will be held on March 9th. V. P. I. is to be
debated April 20th and the University of the South on April 30th. Two men and an alternate will be selected
for each of these debates. Trials for the debate with the Presbyterian College of South Carolina upon the query, “Resolved,
that the United States should enter the World Court,” will be held on March 26th and the regular debate will
be April 27th. Three men and an alternate will be chosen for this debate. The affirmative side of the questions
debated with P. C. and Pittsburgh will be upheld by Davidson. The side which Davidson will uphold in the other
debates has not yet been definitely decided. These trials are so arranged that one, if unsuccessful in one of the
first debates, may try for the P. C. debate later on. This is the greatest debating program ever attempted at
Davidson and it is interesting to note the enthusiasm which is being manifested by the whole student body regarding them.

The men who have signified their intention of trying for these debates are: for the Pittsburgh debate, D. H. Stewart,
Henry Powell, Hayden Hollingsworth, S. K. Pritchett, B. U. Ratchford, J. C. Barrington, E. T. Pullen, W. T. Covington, Jim
Pinkney, W. C. Milton and W. A. Broyles; for the P. C. debate, J. P. McKnight, R. A. Miller, J.
M. Murchison, T. C. Barr, T. G. McCutcheon, J. M. Garrison, Jim Moore, Harlee Bordeaux, A. B. Williford, C. G.
Davis, Tyree Dillard, Jr., C. E. Houston, D. G. Wilson; for the V. P. I. and Sewanee debates, Caldwell Withers,
W. A. Christian, T. D. Daniel, G. M. Eddington, R. H. Mellwaine, J. B. Webb, N. C. McLeod, Roland Simmes,
Buck Shaw, S. D. Wharton, Jr., C. W. Williams, Harlee Branch, Wood Brown, A. W. Alexander, J. S. Grey, J.
M. Appleby, W. L. Lingle, R. B. Parker and A. Y. Among these men are seven of last year’s intercollegiate
debaters, and five of last year’s intercollegiate freshman team. There are many others who have shown talent and great aptitude
for work of this kind.

INTERESTING TALK BY MLLE. CLEMONT HEARD BY STUDENTS

(Continued from page 5)

Bergson’s teachings have affected the thoughts of peoples of every nation, and his influence can be seen in the progress
of the arts and sciences. Anatole France, another of the leaders of thought in France, has been known internationally as
an author of the highest rank. His works are expressive of the lives of the average intellectual Frenchman, and are
full of mild satire and keen humor. This author is an admirer of the sincerity of the common people, and
his masterpieces are full of portrayals of their lives. He is a Socialist, and his entire sympathy is with these
peoples. A characteristic of the scientific geniuses of the French nation is that they are totally disinterested in the wealth
that their discoveries might bring them. They believe that thoughts of money make them lose their peace of mind, and
take away considerable of their inventive and explorative ability. Pasteur, Monsieur and Madame Curie, who have all given something of
inestimable value to the world as well as having brought much credit to their country. Thus we can see that
France, the nation to which we are accustomed to look as the nation of pleasure and gaiety, is giving to
the world now, as she has given in the past, men of great intellect and ability, that have influenced the
world more than can be realized with their revelations and discoveries in the fields of science and philosophy.

Nowhere Can You Beat That Toasty Flavor

Each fluffy white morsel coated with golden butter and superheated to a piping hot crisp. That’s delicious.

BUTTER-KIST POP CORN

Be sure to take a bag or carton to your room. No other treat so good---so nutritious. Also Butter-Kist Peanuts,
Electrically Toasted

FOR FEEDS AND SMOKES, SEE US.

At 10 P. M. when you grow drowsy and studies bore, take up collection (on hall), and send for B-K
at THE STUDENT STORE

“It’s Yours---Why Not Patronize It.”

Easy Way to Europe This Summer

The Intercollegiate Travel Bureau offers you all the modern tours on any means of transportation, to any part of the
world. Prices are extremely reasonable because of our efficient organization. See College Representatives

England France Germany Etc.

R. D. KAUFFELT and DON STEWART 14 Rumple

operate the coal mines.” This query, which was probably the best debated one of the year in the society, is
the question for the intercollegiate debate with the University of Pittsburgh. The speakers for the affirmative were Don Stewart andBill
Covington, while the negative side was upheld by E. T. Pullen and H. J. Powell. The judges decided two to
one in favor of the affirmative. Each of these men are going out for the intercollegiate debating teams and promises
fair to make a place. Other Metrophilians out for intercollegiate debating are Roland Parker, Roland Sims, and L. D. Wharton.
The query for the Sewanee debate, “Resolved: That the military forces of the United States should be consolidated into a
department of national defense, with branches of army, navy, and air forces,” which is also the query for the Freshman
team, will be used at the meeting tonight, Thursday, February 11th.

Eumenean

At the last meeting of the Eumenean Society, A. Y. Bowie gave a splendid talk on the subject, “An Open
Mind.” Because of the fact that several members were on the Glee Club, the current events and the declamation were
left out. The debate, “Resolved, that the United States should own and operate the coal mines,” was, however, very spirited.
The affirmative speakers were T. G. McCutcheon and W. H. Linch; the negative speakers were W. C. Ogden and F.
G. Daniel. A motion was made and seconded that the three oil stoves, which were used before the heating system
was installed, be given to a country church several miles from Davidson.

Pandemic

At last week’s meeting of the Pandemic Society, the officers were installed and the regular program was also carried out.
J. M. Garrison gave a talk on “Why men alone speak.” The subject of the debate was, “Resolved, that the
United States should own and operate the coal mines.” J. C. Moore and S. W. Moore took the affirmative side
and G. E. Land and R. H. Mellwaine took the negative. The declamation was given by W. K. Pritchett and
the current events by W. M. Greverton. For the remainder of the year, the society will probably devote its time
to the discussion of topics of particular interest, just as they are discussed in Congress. No assignments will be given.
The membership will probably be divided into Whigs and Tories, one side to support and the other to oppose the
bills which are brought up. The bill for discussion for the following week will be presented at each meeting. The
bill for this week, which is the same as the V. P. I. debate, is Resolved: “That the army, navy,
and air forces should all be combined.”

GUILFORD QUINTET BOWS (Continued from page 1)

led with 17 points; Laird had 12. Four shots were Laird’s specialty that evening, the captain getting four points out
of four tries. Captain Smith, of the Quakers, seemed most aggressive of the visitors, while the other forward, Ferrell, and
the center, Moore, were almost equal sharers in scoring honors. The defense work of Smith made the final count for
Davidson be diminished somewhat. It was one of the cleanest games on the court, flashy the majority of the time,
and played with a rapidity that exceeded other performances of cage quints at Davidson.

Line-up and summary:
Guilford (23) Position Davidson (34)
Ferrell (5) F Huie
Moore (6) C Wilson (2)
Coltrane (3) RG Anderson (17)
Tew (2) LG Hewlette (6)

Substitutions: Guilford — Griffin for Smith, Coble for Coltrane; Davidson — Harrison (1) for Huie, Simpson for Harrison, Huie for
Harrison, Hudgins for Wilson. Fouls: Guilford, 3 out of 8; Davidson: 8 out of 12. Field goals: Guilford, 10; Davidson,
13. Referee: Hengeveld (Davidson).

Lecturer’s Books May Be Purchased At Y.M.C.A. Office

Those who heard Stitt Wilson’s lectures last weekend will be glad to learn that his two booklets containing three of
his most forceful lectures may be secured at the Y. office at the gym. One of the lectures is entitled
The Christ-Spirit in the Animal World, and is dedicated to the Fundamentalists and the Modernists. A quotation from the lecture
will show its general nature: “The sabre-toothed tiger is gone, but the sheep and cattle on a thousand hills remain
in millions. The hyena and the jaguar skulk in their loneliness, but the noble horse abounds. It is not scripture
but science: ‘Blessed are the meek, and the brotherly, and they practice Mutual Aid — for they shall inherit the
earth.’”

The other pamphlet contains two lectures in regard to the Church, The Militant Church and Property, and The Militant Church
and Public Opinion. Among other great statements, this book proclaims “Only moral and spiritual and social radicals like Socrates, and
Jesus, and Fox and Wesley have ever been able to transcend a public opinion created by the moral code and
mental grip of a dominant economic class in any particular period of history. And we of our day are no
exception to the rule.” These pamphlets are on sale in the office of A. M. Hillhouse, the price being fifteen
cents for either pamphlet, twenty-five cents for both.

IMPERIAL
Now Playing
NORMA TALMADGE
---IN---
“GRAUSTARK”
with Eugene O’Brien.
Coming Monday, Feb. 15th
“The American Venus”
with “Miss America” and 50 other famous beauties, in a story of the Atlantic City Bathing Beauty Contest

MUSE
ATLANTA WILL SHOW
Phi Hall February 16-17
Harllee Branch, Jr.
Representative at the Style Center of the South
the Store of the Southern Colleges
EXCLUSIVE LINE
SPRING COLLEGIATE CLOTHING, HATS AND SHOES

Muse's is in direct touch with Yale, and the Eastern Universities. Their spring line includes every new innovation seen on
the Yale Quadrangle, the Princeton campus, and at Harvard.
