THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1926

PLAYING THE GAME

With Withers State Champions All-State Selections To Whom Credit Due? Press Comment Basketball Stars

Realizing for the first time in many years of football a championship of North Carolina, the Davidson Wildcats have returned
conquerors to their lair. By decisively trouncing Duke, while North Carolina State for the second consecutive year surprised Wake Forest
with a defeat, Davidson won a clear-cut claim to the title. Before the contests of Turkey Day, the Deacons and
the Wildcats alone remained undefeated within the borders of the Tar Heel state. Both teams had licked Carolina, and Davidson
had won over State and the Baptists from Duke. Davidson had succumbed to two Virginia elevens—Hampden-Sidney and V. M. I.,
while the Deacons had been downed by Furman and P. C., of South Carolina. If memory serves us right, early
in the fall, when the Baptists won from Carolina, they were acclaimed State Champions. And then we recall how the
underrated Davidson Wildcats for the second consecutive season went to Charlotte and tied the “champions.” All in all, the Wildcats
have had a highly successful season.

Various attempts have been made since the Thanksgiving clashes to attribute the cause for Davidson’s wonder team. In no wise
would we attempt to detract in the least from the worth of other elements that certainly entered into the situation,
but it seems to us that the most credit can be handed on a silver platter to Coaches Younger and
Tilson. Starting the present season with a noticeable lack of material, these mentors have developed a team which would give
any in this section a hard tussle. These men stated last spring that Davidson would be indeed fortunate to win
two games this year in football. Well, perhaps, “Gloomy” and “Morbid” are pertinent terms to use in their connection.

Grey, Bohannon, and Boggs, of Davidson, were placed on the composite all-state team. The team was picked by a majority
of the sports writers and experts of the state—men who had seen all the leading teams of the state play
at least once. McConnell, Wildcat center, received several votes for the pivot position and at least one for guard, but
was beat out by Schwartz, of Carolina. Among other Davidson players who were considered were Pinkney and Arrowood, ends, and
Ritchie, tackle. There were probably others also for not all of the selections have reached this office. Through the state,
in the last few days, there have appeared in many of the leading dailies, praise and favorable comment for Davidson.
The team, the coaches, the subs, and the general attitude of the student body, all have received notice. Certainly, the
student body, to a man, displayed the proper Davidson spirit last Friday morning when it stood in the rain for
half an hour at the coming weekend. The Wildcat link stars son College course at 2:00 p.m.

Three Assistants Named in Football

The three Junior managers of the football team for the next year have been chosen by the Athletic Council. These
men are Roger Hall, A. C. Kelly, and C. H. Mauze. W. M. Regen was chosen as alternate. It has
been the custom in the past for the Athletic Council to elect both the Junior and Varsity managers, but according
to a new ruling instituted this fall, the Varsity managers of all the teams will be elected henceforth by the
Athletic Council combined with those men who make their letter in the respective sports. Under this new system, the election
of the Varsity managers is not left in the hands of such a small number of persons, but is left
up to the judgment of those whom the managership concerns most vitally. The Junior managers were elected Monday night by
the Athletic Council, and the votes for the election of the Varsity will more than likely be cast by the
team Saturday morning, when next year’s captain will be elected.

FEMININE PLAYERS (Continued from page 1)

North Carolina during the winter months and to present the same three plays. This was the second appearance of Queens
organization on the “Hill” during the past week, the Glee Club appearing here in concert a week ago. Following the
call of Coach Younger and Captain Anderson, the candidates for basketball have turned out in full force. Although the captain,
Wilson, Simpson, and Harrison, are the only letter men in school, the prospects for a good team are much brighter
now than they were a year ago. This is true in spite of the fact that the present Sophomore class
failed to produce a real cage artist. A great deal of the team’s strength will come from last year’s “Cowboy”
team and from material developed in the class series.

A formidable schedule has been announced for the wrestling team by Coach Weems. The one big addition to the list
of engagements is a meet with the West Point Cadets the first of February. For years Davidson has stood high
with its grapplers, and boasts one man, Frierson, who has not been thrown during his college career except in an
extra time match. In addition to the completed schedule, several more meets are pending so in all the Wildcat matmen
will have a full season. The coach also plans to put out a Freshman team this fall and the call
for candidates has been issued. A return match for the Davidson golf team with Statesville is planned for the coming
weekend. The men that were honored with numerals are: K. Hampton, T. R. Carson, E. R. McConnell, A. L. DeCamp,
N. Hunt, B. M. DeArmond, H. E. Peterson, W. Dobbins, T. R. Nunan, R. M. Christian, J. T. Matthews, R.
S. Reynolds, E. B. Kugler, J. D. Hammett, and T. W. Brohard.

CANVASS WILL BE CONDUCTED

Wrestling Team Starts Work With Five Letter Men as Basis of Squad

Frierson, Davis, Estridge, Crinkley, andMauldin Veterans From Last Year—To Meet Army

Thirty men answered Captain Weems’ first call for wrestling practice, Monday afternoon. Keen opposition was given the five lettermen remaining
from last year’s team. The schedule for the ensuing year is practically completed, with the West Point Cadets the only
new addition. The prospects for this year’s team look unusually good with five lettermen back to work for their positions.
The team is far from being made by anyone, as the reserve material is right there to fill in with
real hard work. The lettermen and their respective weights are: Joe Frierson, captain, 118 pounds; C. G. Davis, manager, 138
pounds; Harry Estridge, 148 pounds; John Crinkley, 158 pounds; Paul Mauldin, 196 pounds. A few new men who showed up
well for the first couple of days of practice, and might succeed in displacing some of the old ones are:
Garrison, Hansel, Blythe, Bohannon, Harrell, Herriott, Harper, Hill, and Cromartie.

(Continued from page I)

Excellent mission school there. This is a chance for the students to aid directly in the support of a most
needy cause of home mission work.

Sixteen Freshmen Awarded Numerals

At the same time of the awarding of the varsity letters by the Athletic Council, 16 Freshmen were awarded numerals
for services rendered on the team of ’30. These men will be entitled to wear the “D. C.” Although the
Freshman team did not win any games in the state, it completed the season with two wins and three defeats.
Defeats were administered to them by State and Duke Freshmen, and Blue Ridge Prep School. Victories were obtained over Presbyterian
College and Furman Freshmen.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE

Although the Freshman team was not successful in wins and losses, yet it shows great likelihood of turning out several
men that will have chances to obtain berths on next year’s varsity. This is especially true of the line where
several good players are to be found who will add to the reserve strength of next year’s line. The backfield
also shows promise of turning out several future stars.

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

PRINTING

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see VERNON S. BROYLES
QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES

Thus far, the only new meet scheduled is with the Army, at West Point. This year’s schedule will be the
hardest in many years. This alone should make it well worth anyone’s effort to try for a place on the
team. This is, perhaps, the best trip taken by any team in the school. There will be a few matches
with various teams on the way to New York, but these have not been decided upon, as yet.

The schedule as it now stands is as follows:
State—Here January 15th.
Army—There February 5th.
Duke—Here February 13th.
V. P. I.—Here February 19th (pending).
Carolina—Here February 26th (pending).

Approximately 15 Freshmen were out for the first wrestling practice. It is extremely important for the new men to come
out and learn the tricks of wrestling early. The practice for this first week was taken up with only light
workouts. Captain Weems stated that next week, beginning Monday, he will expect to have the men get down to real
business.

Statesville Club to Meet Golf Team

The Statesville Country Club golf team will come to Davidson for a return match with the Davidson College golf team
on Saturday of this week. The match consists of three foursomes and will be played on Davidson’s course. The Davidson
team scored a decisive victory over the Iredell County Club a few weeks ago but the opponents have strengthened their
team and plan to come back at the locals with renewed vigor.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Introducing to the readers of The Davidsonian Rev. W. Taliaferro Thompson, D. D. (A.B. & D. D. Davidson College) Professor
of Religious Education

The Statesville team is in good shape, having improved a great deal since their first match with Davidson, and a
good match is promised. The Davidson team will be composed of McGill, Love, Wolfe, Wilson, Martin, and Mills. Since the
last rain, the greens have been graded, several bad places which could not be called natural hazards have been filled
in, and numerous other improvements have been made. This should put the course in fairly good condition for the match.

Anti-Key-Hole

Mrs. A.—“I don’t believe Helen’s beau is what he ought to be.”
Mr. A—“Why, what’s wrong now?”
Mrs. A.—“He’s hung his hat on the door knob to cover up the key-hole.”

Campus Representative, R. B. MCQUEEN & COMPANY
Charlotte, N. C.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men

Selby Ice Cream Co.
GOOD ICE CREAM
Statesville, N.C.

Wildcat Cafe
THE BEST PLACE AND FOOD
GIVE US A TRIAL

Lance Quality Products
Delivered same day made.
LANCE PACKING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
All dealers
