: THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1926

Fresh Debate Carolina Yearlings in Dual Meet

Alumni Notes

Six Men Chosen to Represent Davidson Against Tar Heels

The following is a list of Davidson graduates who are pursuing their chosen line of study in other institutions:

University of North Carolina—1926, R. K. W. Morrison, Teaching Fellow; 1921, C. K. Brown, Research Fellow; 1922, C. W. Robinson,
Jr.; 1922, L. A. Wooten, Assistant in Chemistry; 1925, J. A. Thompson, Teaching Fellow; 1925, O. M. Brown, Graduate Scholar;
1925, P. M. Patterson, Teaching Fellow.

Columbia Theological Seminary—1925, L. B. Gibbs McIntosh;

The preliminaries for the Freshman Intercollegiate Debating team, held just before the holidays, was a closely contested affair with several
good speeches given. Due to the withdrawal of Wake Forest from the meet, instead of it being a triangular one,
it will be a dual affair. One team will go to Chapel Hill to debate the University of North Carolina
and the other will remain at Davidson to debate the same school here.

From a field of 11 speakers the judges picked W. K. Pritchett, R. E. Kell, and P. W. Gates as
the team to go to Chapel Hill. This team will defend the negative, and the team remaining at Davidson will
debate the affirmative. On the affirmative were selected J. R. Graham, R. C. Grady, and W. L. Dumas. On the
negative team, A. N. Brown was selected as alternate with C. H. Mauzey as the alternate on the affirmative. These
men are all good speakers and the class of '29 hope to win both these debates. W. K. Pritchett was
awarded the Fresh-Soph debating medal in the intersociety meet held last fall, and R. C. Grady is the recent winner
of the Fresh declaimer medal.

The question, “Resolved, That the United States should consolidate its defenses into one department, with sub-divisions with the Army, Navy,
and Air,” is the same as the varsity will use against V. P. I. and will take place the middle
of May.

Ex-'26, Claude Lowry, Jr.; 1923, J. B. Sloan, Jr.

Princeton University—1922, E. E. Lingle.

Presbyterian Theological Seminary of Kentucky—1920, A. D. McArn; 1921, A. I. McAlister; 1922, J. W. Groves; 1922, L. A. Taylor;
1923, R. F. Davidson; 1923, R. L. McLeod; 1924, C. V. Brown, Jr.; 1924, R. M. Cochran; 1924, A. C.
Wildman; 1925, A. M. Martin.

Union Theological Seminary—Graduate Students: 1923, Rev. F. F. Wicca by Baker; 1908, Rev. L. T. Newland; 1905, Rev. J. A.
McQueen.

Seniors: 1920, D. M. Chalmers; 1921, M. B. Heizer; 1922, D. P. McGeachy; 1922, P. D. Miller; 1922, T. H.
Patterson; 1922, J. C. Wool; 1923, P. H. Biddle; 1923, T. I. Fraser; 1923, W. A. Gamble, Jr.; 1923, A.
V. Gibson; 1923, G. W. Mauze; 1925, W. T. Baker; 1925, J. L. Jr.; Ex-1926, R. W. Childress.

Middle Class: 1912, B. B. J. N. Hillhouse; 1918, L. H. Patterson; 1921, L. W. Edgerton; 1922, R. R. McIlwaine;
1922, J. C. B. McLaughlin; 1922, R. H. Poole; 1923, S. H. Bradley; 1923, J. Johnson.

COMMENCEMENT MARSHALS

H. L. Shaw, Jr., has been elected chief marshal to preside during commencement, with C. W. Williams as assistant chief
marshal. Two men were elected from each of the four literary societies. These men will preside at all public functions
during the commencement program. Those elected were:

Eumenean—W. C. Ogden, C. W. Williams.
Philanthropic—C. G. Davis, D. M. Calhoun.
Pandemic—J. B. Webb, L. M. McCutchen.
Metrophilian—(To be elected).

The Charlotte Observer “Carolina’s Foremost Newspaper”

THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER’S news is the latest, having four leased wires coming direct into THE OBSERVER office. The news of
the ASSOCIATED PRESS is relayed from THE OBSERVER office all over the Carolinas to the other newspapers. Hundreds of correspondents
daily gathering news from all parts of the world. Features of the highest character and more of them, many of
which are carried by no other newspaper in the Carolinas. Complete local, State, nation and world news is furnished daily
to readers of THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER.

THE OBSERVER is a complete newspaper, and it is now read daily and Sunday by more people in the Carolinas
than any other—The reason—a reliable newspaper, carrying all news that is news while it is news, in addition to many
interesting features, including a whole page of the most important comics daily, and a 4-page colored comic section, in addition
to the Red Magic Puzzle Section on Sunday. Its market section is second to none, and one of the best
sport sections in the South.

If you are not a subscriber to THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER, fill in the coupon below and mail to the Circulation
Department with your subscription, or you may request sample copies so that you can compare the quality of THE OBSERVER
with any other metropolitan newspaper in the South. You don’t have to pay for one year in order to get
a trial subscription. You may subscribe for one month, three months, six months or a year. By all means, if
you have never read THE OBSERVER, clip the coupon and fill it in for at least one month’s subscription, which
is only 75c, or request samples, which will be sent upon receipt of coupon.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES BY MAIL
1 Mo. 3 Mos. 6 Mos. 1 Year
Daily and Sunday $0.75 $2.25 $4.50 $9.00
Daily without Sunday $0.65 $1.75 $3.50 $7.00
Sunday Only $0.40 $1.00 $1.75 $3.50

THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER, Circulation Department, Charlotte, N. Carolina.

Gentlemen: Enclosed find $____ for ____ months subscription to THE (Daily and Sunday) OBSERVER. (Daily Only)

NAME ___________________________
ADDRESS ________________________

Carr; 1925, P. B. Freeland; 1925, F. A. Hopkins; 1925, A. C. Ray, Jr.; 1927, G. C. Crowell; 1927, I.
E. Hagar.

Special Students: 1924, W. T. Jones.

R. M. Rickert, ’10, is in the jewelry business in Statesville, N.C.

Dr. C. R. Harding expects to attend the annual meeting of the Southern Section of the Classical Association, held at
the University of Tennessee in Knoxville. While there Dr. Harding expects to read a paper on the importance of Greek.

John Paine, ‘23, was on the Hill over the weekend.

A. Morris MacDonald, gentle of mien and staunch of dead and Mecklenburg County mourns his death deeply and sincerely. He
was a member of the class of '88 and a native of Charlotte, N.C., his home being at 000 S.
Tryon St. Mr. MacDonald was a typical Davidson product and during his year at Davidson represented the traditions of the
college as well as its ideals and progress.

McAlister will succeed C. A. Mebane as active head of The McAlister, Vaughn and Scales Insurance Company, general agents for
the Pilot Life Insurance Company. Mr. McAlister was a student at Davidson when...The World War broke, and he immediately volunteered.
After the war, he finished his course here. Dr. John G. Whitehead, member of the class of '71, died last
Thursday night at his home on Fulton St., Salisbury, N.C. Dr. Whitehead had been in ill health for several days
and was under the care of a trained nurse, but his death came rather suddenly and unexpectedly at that time.
He was 70 years of age and was one of Salisbury's oldest and most loved citizens, whose life was one
of Christian service as a physician and surgeon. Dr. Whitehead received his M.D. at the University of Pennsylvania and LL.D.
from Davidson College. He first practiced medicine with his father, Dr. Marcellus Whitehead, who was then a physician in Salisbury.
He leaves a widow and two children, Dr. Edward Whitehead, who is connected with the Episcopal Hospital of Philadelphia, and
Mrs. John Osborne of Jacksonville, Fla.

Invitations like the following have been received by friends of Mr. B. E. Shields:
Mr. and Mrs. Jesse Prosser Heath request the honour of your presence at the marriage of their daughter Irma Graham
to Mr. Benjamin Ernest Shields on Wednesday, the seventeenth of April at seven-thirty o'clock in the evening at First Presbyterian
Church, Decatur, Georgia.

The marriage of Mr. Shields will be of special interest to Davidson men of every class. It was Mr. Shields
who composed the college song, “O, Davidson.” Since graduating, he has written several other songs, the most popular of which
is his fraternity song, “The Dream Girl of Rinke Ave.”

On last Thursday afternoon, at the First Methodist Church of Morganton, Miss Hortense Bridgers became the bride of Mr. Ralph
Fincher Kiser. Mr. Kiser, who is the son of Mr. and Mrs. John Kiser, was educated at Davidson College and
is now a prominent young businessman of Charlotte. His bride, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Bridgers of
Morganton, is a very popular and attractive young girl of that town. Mr. and Mrs. Kiser are taking their wedding
trip in western North Carolina, after which they will be at home at 510 East Ninth St., Charlotte.

Mr. William Holt Williamson, class of '84, died a few days ago at his home in Raleigh. Mr. Williamson was
a prominent manufacturer, banker, and capitalist and has always been a great booster for Davidson. He gave $60,000 to the
college just recently for the purpose of Professorships.

J. P. Hendrix, '25 (captain and student body president), is studying for his M.A. degree at Davidson. R. T. Kimzy,
'25 (captain), is teaching school at Greensboro, N.C. J. A. Thompson, '25 (captain), is taking post-graduate work in Spanish at
the University of North Carolina. S. M. Davis, '23 (captain), is in the banking business in Winston-Salem, N.C.

CONCORD PRESBYTERY
The Presbytery of Concord met in Spencer from the 13th to the 15th of April. Dr. Lingle, Dr. Richards, and
Dr. J. M. Douglas represented the local Church. The Concord Presbytery includes the churches of seven counties, and most of
the churches sent delegates, making the convention a success in point of attendance as well as in other respects. Dr.
Lingle, the last Moderator, preached the opening sermon and presided until the new Moderator, Rev. Eugene Alexander, was elected. Rev.
Mr. Alexander graduated here in 1902 and is now pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church in Salisbury.

Watt’s Dormitory Scene of Fire in Absence of Boys
The stillness of the campus Monday night was broken by the second fire of the year, which destroyed a part
of the belongings of Hugh Arrowood and John McKnight. The fire, of unknown origin, was discovered about 10 p.m. by
McEver and Brown McQueen, who happened to be passing at the time. A little time was lost in extinguishing the
fire by the fact that the discoverer rang the bell instead of tolling it. This led everyone to believe that
it was the celebrating of our well-known victory. The fire originated in or between two trunks, and most of the
damage was confined to the articles in the trunks and those that were on top at the time. The floor
was burned and plaster damaged to such an extent that they have moved to a vacant room that was available
in Watts at the time. They estimate their damage to be around two hundred dollars.

DAVIDSON R.O.T.C. UNIT
R. E. Boggs, '25, first lieutenant and captain of the basketball team, is now teaching and coaching at McCallie School.
J. T. Law, '25 (major), is studying at Harvard. Immediately following this, Company "A" was called upon to do company
close order drill, the first platoon in Company "B" to do platoon close order drill, and the first squad of
Company "C" to do squad close order drill. Each of these units performed very creditably, particularly Company "A". The playing
of the band seemed to be better than at any time this year. While at Davidson, the members of the
board were guests of Captain Weems and were quartered at Mrs. Wooten’s residence. They were entertained after drill at the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon house. At 5:00 p.m., they left Davidson and were guests for dinner at the home of Maj.
A. L. James, of Charlotte. Major James was a classmate of both members of the board.

Professional Notices
DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
312, 313, 314, 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5059
Residence, 1937-J
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Dr. E. D. Brown, a Davidson graduate, is now Clerk of the Presbytery. Dr. Brown graduated with Dr. Lingle in
1903.

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST
Charlotte, N.C.

Telephones
Office 3171
Res. 3419-W
12 South Tryon Street
Over Garibaldi & Bruns

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Neurocalometer Service
Charlotte, N.C.

Eyes Examined
Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
24 South Tryon St.
Upstairs
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Telephone 3528

BELK BROS. CO.
Our April Display was scheduled for last Tuesday but owing to a slight misunderstanding we could not secure your showroom.
Our line of Clothing and Furnishings will be on display at EU. HALL Tuesday, April 27.

BELK BROS. CO.

YELLOW CABS
“PHONE 24 ANY HOUR OF THE 24”
“A Pledge of Safety”

Letter Heads
Envelopes
Programs
Tickets
Send them to Brady at Statesville and they will be printed right.
