2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1926

Wildcats Win Two Games From State

The Davidson Wildcats took the first of a brace of games from North Carolina State here Friday afternoon, 10 to 8, in a game in which errors were costly to both teams. State used three pitchers, while the Wildcats tried only two. Wade was most effective for the Techmen, allowing but a single hit and no runs during the three innings he twirled. Huie allowed but four scattered hits to the Techmen during the first six innings and had been scored upon once by errors, but in the seventh frame he weakened and Laird went in to finish the game. The State swatters outhit Davidson, C. Shuford, Harold, W. Shuford, and Tate all getting two bingles. Johnson and Kugler tallied a couple of safe hits, one of Kugler’s a double.

N. C. STATE AB R H O A
Gronulol, G 6 2 2 1 0
Harold 5 2 2 0 0
Milsh 5 1 0 5 0
Wider 4 1 0 0 0
Ays 4 0 1 0 0
Wishias 4 0 1 0 0
Awe 3 0 0 2 0
Hauking 3 0 0 2 0
Capsol 4 0 1 0 0
Pla 3 0 0 1 0

Perfect Service. Suits Cleaned, Pressed
“JOBS WELL DONE”
Mayhew Dry Cleaning Co.
Davidson, N. C.
Mooresville, N. C.

Society Brand
CORNELL
We’ve never offered a suit so many men like---and ask for season after season. This spring the Cornell’s even smarter, if possible, than before. Higher shoulders, a broader, more athletic effect. Again it’s the Society Brand favorite, and better liked than ever.
$40 up
The Tate-Brown Co.
38-40 So. Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Wildcat Netmen Victors In Two Tennis Matches

Racquet Wielders Win From Clemson and South Carolina, Losing to Tech

The tennis team returned Saturday from a trip through South Carolina and Georgia with two victories and one defeat to their credit. They won a match from Clemson and South Carolina. The defeat came from the hands of Georgia Tech. The game with Wofford, last year champions of South Carolina, was rained out. Wofford was considered the strongest team in South Carolina, and the Wildcats were all set to trim them. At Clemson, Davidson met with good success, losing only one single and one double match. Carr, McCutchen, and McAlpine forced Marville to extra games before bowing to him.

The match with Georgia Tech was the best of the trip. Although Davidson won only two matches, they forced Tech to hard playing to win. Carr was the outstanding star of the meet. In the second set, he came from behind and won six straight games and the set. It took 12 games to decide the third set, Carr winning 7 to 5. At Columbia against the University of South Carolina, the Davidson netmen won 75 games to 7 for Carolina. Every match was hotly contested, with the match between Wilson, ranking Gamecock netman, and McCutcheon, captain of the Wildcats, the best of the meet. It took 32 games to decide the match, Wilson winning 8-6, 10-8.

The summary of the matches follows:

Georgia Tech: Georgia Tech 4, Davidson 2
Grant (Tech) defeated McCutcheon (Davidson) 6-3, 6-1; Carr (Davidson) defeated Merry (Tech) 5-7, 7-5, 7-5; James (Tech) defeated Brown (Davidson) 6-2, 2-6, 6-4; Wagner (Tech) defeated McAlpine (Davidson) 6-4, 6-2; McCutchen and Carr (Davidson) defeated Grant and Merry (Tech) 6-2, 3-6, 6-1; Wagner and James (Tech) defeated Brown and McAlpine (Davidson) 6-3, 6-1.

At Clemson: Davidson 4, Clemson 2
McCutchen (Davidson) defeated Fishburn (Clemson) 6-2, 6-1; Carr (Davidson) defeated Heller (Clemson) 6-3, 6-2; Brown (Davidson) defeated Connelly (Clemson) 6-3, 6-2; Marville (Clemson) defeated McAlpine (Davidson) 6-4, 8-6; McCutchen and Carr (Davidson) defeated Fishburn and Connelly (Clemson) 6-3, 6-3; Heller and Marville (Clemson) defeated Brown and McAlpine (Davidson) 6-4, 6-3.

At Columbia: University of South Carolina 2, Davidson 4
Wilson (Carolina) defeated McCutchen (Davidson) 8-6, 10-8; Coleman (Carolina) defeated Carr (Davidson) 6-4, 6-3; Brown (Davidson) defeated Fair (Carolina) 6-3, 3-6, 6-2; McAlpine (Davidson) defeated Beatty (Carolina) 6-4, 7-5; McCutchen and Carr (Davidson) defeated Coleman and Fair (Carolina) 6-4, 6-3; Brown and McAlpine (Davidson) defeated Wilson and Beatty (Carolina) 6-3, 2-6, 6-2.

W. H. WILLIAMSON LEAVES
(Continued from page 1)

in Myers Park. He had been living in Charlotte for only four months when he went to his winter home in Deland, Fla., and it was here that his death occurred.

Charles Hoff has pole vaulted 13 feet 9 inches, which is eight inches more than anyone has previously done, and was formerly considered an impossible height.

EAT AT THE ASTOR
LUNCH SERVICE
THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

During Extensive Tour

PLAYING THE GAME
By Caldwell Withers

Five varsity victories and one freshman win in a week! The Wildcat baseball nine accounted for two of these contests when they took a batting bee from State on Friday and the next day snowed the same team under at Gastonia.

The trackmen more than doubled the score over South Carolina. The Gamecocks were severely handicapped by the absence of one of their stars. Brewer, who was to enter the javelin, discus, shot put, high hurdles, and the broad jump, was ruled ineligible on account of his studies just before the team left Columbia. South Carolina teams are having a hard time with Davidson athletic teams this spring. Wofford was defeated in track by a rather large score and the Wildcat netmen have secured two victories over the racketeers of the University of South Carolina and administered a 4 to 2 drubbing against Clemson on their Southern tour.

The baseball team left for Greenville to play Furman yesterday. From the textile center, Coach Monk takes the team to Clemson for a contest today. Here's hoping that the Wildcats will be able to keep up their good record.

Davidson students had their last opportunity to see the local track team in action last Saturday. Following close upon the Clemson-Georgia Tech-Davidson meet to be held at Clemson Saturday, Coach Tilson will enter his best men in the Statemeet one week later. We are expecting Davidson to make a better showing this year than she did last spring. Carolina walked off with practically every event, and, although it is generally conceded that the Tar Heels will win again this spring, the meet should be closer than in former years. With five regulars and one substitute hitting over the coveted .300 mark, Coach Monk has developed one of the hardest hitting baseball nines in the state. When Laird and Huie are in form and Vance, Woodham, and Captain Alford are socking the apple, Davidson is mighty hard to beat. Ask State, she knows!

FRESH TENNIS TEAM

Although the Freshman Tennis Team has not shown up so well so far this year, there are several good men out, and it is hoped that by hard work and constant practice, a good team can be developed. Roddey, Flowe, and Bradley are sure of a place now, and Tom James, Steve McGill, and several others are showing up well and are working hard for places.

J. R. Ernest, '25 (captain), is musical director at Augusta Military Academy. J. R. Gudger, '25 (captain), is studying medicine at Harvard. G. M. Ford, '24 (major), is teaching at the Berry Schools, Mt. Berry, Ga.

BATTING AVERAGES

Player          AB  Hits  Avrg.
Blacks           4     2    .500
Vance           37    14    .378
Woodham         31    12    .387
Alford          34    11    .324
J. Kugler       16     5    .312
Huie            29     9    .310
Johnson         31     9    .290
Glenn           18     4    .222
Davis           10     2    .200
Dulin           27     4    .148
F. Kugler       19     2    .105
Kong            4      0    .000
Kimbrough       4      0    .000
Odell           2      0    .000
Harrison        2      0    .000
McGolgan        1      0    .000

Team Average: 270 AB, 74 Hits, .274

Davidson Track Team to Enter Triangular Meet With Clemson and Tech

Strong Opposition Expected in Contest Against Tigers and Yellow-Jackets

The Davidson track squad has one of the stiffest meets of the season next Saturday, when it will compete with Clemson and Georgia Tech in a triangular meet at Clemson. The team will leave for Clemson on a bus early Friday morning. Seventeen men, including Coach Tilson and B. Crayton, manager, will make the trip. They will return to Davidson Saturday night after the meet.

Although Clemson has a strong track team, it is not considered as good as last year’s. Roy, Clemson's stellar dash man, holds the Southern record for the 440-yard dash. Odell, also of Clemson, broke the Southern record for the pole vault a week ago last Saturday when he cleared the bar at 12 feet 6 inches. This is the next to the last meet that Davidson will enter this spring. The state meet in which cinder path stars from the leading colleges of North Carolina will participate, ends the season for the Wildcats.

Newman, the Tigers’ middle distance star, has held the Southern record for the half mile, against Georgia last week making the 880 yards in 2:1. Beside being the South's stellar performer in the pole vault, Odell takes part creditably in the high jumps, shot put, and broad jump. Very little is known of Georgia Tech's strength. For the last several years they have had a creditable team and in the relay carnival here in Atlanta the first part of the month carried off several honors.

Davidson Leads in Race for Pennant

As it now stands the state title is far from being conceded to any one team. Davidson leads the standing column with four victories, two of them over N. C. State, one from Carolina, and one from Lenoir-Rhyne, and one defeat by Duke. Only four interstate contests will be played this week, Elon participating in two of them. The Christians will be at home to Lenoir-Rhyne this afternoon and will journey over to Chapel Hill Wednesday to meet the Tar Heels, and on the same day Guilford will be host to Lenoir-Rhyne. The other game of the week will be between N. C. State and Duke at Raleigh on Saturday.

Three colleges are tied for second honors, having won two-thirds of their contests this year from other North Carolina teams. Wake Forest has won from Guilford, Elon, N. C. State, and Lenoir-Rhyne and has been defeated by Elon and Guilford. The Quakers have lost to Wake Forest and Lenoir-Rhyne and have defeated Atlantic Christian College twice, High Point College, and Wake Forest. Duke, the other nine tied for second place, has been defeated by Carolina and has won from Elon and Davidson. The Tar Heels have an even break in the standing column, having lost to Davidson and won from Duke. Elon comes next with two victories and three defeats. The Christians lost to Duke, N. C. State, and Wake Forest and in return games won from the Wolfpack and Deacons. North Carolina State has won only one contest this year in the state. Elon was defeated, 4 to 2, in the first game between the two institutions but the Christians reversed the situation last Thursday and took the second encounter, 5 to 2. Davidson defeated the Raleigh institution twice last week and Wake Forest holds one victory over the State boys.

The standing to date follows:

Davidson          4  1  .800
Wake Forest       4  2  .667
Guilford          4  2  .667
Duke              2  1  .667
Carolina          1  1  .500
Elon              2  3  .400
N. C. State       1  4  .200

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)

Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte

"FRED’S" RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
MORALLY CONDUCTED

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
STATESVILLE, N. C.

THE CHARLOTTE HOTEL
One of the Foor-Robinson System
Dining Room and Coffee Shop in connection.
"A good hotel in a good town"
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

When You Need Candy See Us
Wholesale
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.