4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1926

VOTING POSTPONED

The amendment to the constitution including the proposed changes in the point system, recommended to the student body last week by the student council, did not go before the student body for a final vote Monday morning as had been planned. Action was deferred until Thursday morning because of the fact that the chapel services were being given over entirely to Dr. Ogden, who was conducting the annual Y. M. C. A. Life Service meetings. The proposed changes as stated in the last issue of the Davidsonian will probably gain the approval of the student body.

This business of drunken drivers and automobiles is another one with quick turnovers.

INFLUENZA

As a preventive melt and inhale Vicks night and morning. Apply up nostrils before mingling with crowds. If feverish, call a doctor at once.

VICKS VapoRub
Over 47 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S

MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

NEW HANDY PACK

Fits hand, pocket, and purse. More for your money and the best Peppermint Chewing Sweet for any money. Look for Wrigley’s P.K. Handy Pack on your Dealer’s Counter.

Fellows: You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, Davidson, N. C.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

Cap'n Schmidt—"So you have come to drill without a cap? What would you say if a soldier went to France without his rifle?”
“I'd say he was an officer, sir.”

SPRING FOOTBALL

“I hear that you turned down a date with Jimmy Hendrix, the star fullback.”
“Yeah, can’t be wasting my time. I hear he’s got a stiff arm.”

“Could I have just one kiss?”
“I don't cater to the retail trade.”

“What are you laughing at?”
“Nothing, sir.”
“Then stop looking in that mirror.”

“Lucien, I think you are wonderful.”
“For once we agree,” said Wells.

“That was some meal we just had.”
“Yeah, a great mess.”

“What's your name?”
“Jones.”
“Howdya spell it?”

A COLLEGE MAN’S CREED

Live a fast life, die young, and have a good-looking corpse.

Fresh Pritchett (raving)—“Her face is queenly, and she has the mouth of a princess.”
Ratchford—“Yes, even her teeth are crowned.”

“I see in a paper that a widower with nine children out in Nebraska has married a widow with seven children.”
“That was no marriage. That was a merger.”

Prof. (in anatomy class)—“What are the bones in your hand?”
Red Evans—“Dice, sir.”

IT’S A COLD, CRUEL WORLD

OSWALD

“Hic, haec, hoc,” recited the Latin student, and the Student Council shipped him for getting drunk.

Hoo John—“Git up, Love.”
Philosopher—“Love is a queer name for a mule; don’t you know that love is blind?”
Hoo John—“So’s dis mule; git up, Love.”

“In what way is an alarm clock like limburger cheese?”
“They both speak for themselves.”

“They say Tom Baker’s case was love at first sight.”
“Yeah, musta been one of those blind dates.”

“Whazzamatta wid yer han’, kid?”
“Oh, I wuz down town bummin’ some cigarettes an’ some guy stepped on me han’.”

Prof.—“What conclusions did you draw from your experiment?”
Student—“I’m not an artist, sir.”

“Oh, Margie, I’m engaged!”
“Who to?”
“Oh, I don’t know his name, but he is a college man, and he wore a black suit.”

“Ikey, vot iss dot book vot chu iss reading, eh?”
“It iss aboudt Chulius Caesar, fader.”
“Und vot pizness vos he in, Ikey me poy?”
“He vos a soldier, und ven he von a greadt battle he sendt der message home, ‘Veni, vidi, vici.’”
“Oy, vot eckstravagance. Only tree voids? Vy Ikey, he could have sent seven more voids midtoudt it costing him any more!”

“Where's all your luggage?”
“I lost it.”
“What happened?”
“Cork came out.”

JETHRO vs. RABBIT

“Comin’ to mah pahty? We's gwine ter have a whole gallon o’ cohn.”
“Nup, can’t do it. We’se got a case o’ tonsolitis at mah house.”
“A whule case? Say, Jethro, cain’t we have that party over to your house?”

NURSERY RHYMES No. 2

Georgia R. B. Baker, the piper’s son
Stole a quart and went on a bum.
I could have forgiven the drunken sot
If it had not been my quart that he got.

“Do you use tooth paste?”
“Heck no; my teeth ain't loose.”

The age of adolescence is when a girl begins to powder and a boy begins to puff.

He—“Wanta go swimming?”
She—“I don't swim.”
He—“Wanta go bathing?”
She—“I don't—aw, shut up!”

“What's the difference,” said the Prof., “Between ‘I have hired a taxi’ and ‘I will hire a taxi?’”
“Just about eight dollars, sir.”

LINES ON A CONVICT

They’re all horizontal.

He—“Are you sure the coast is clear, dear?”
She—“Yes, I managed to”Make a hole in the waterpipe, and father is keeping his thumb on it until the plumber arrives.” If it is true that misery loves company, Davidson students should find comfort in the fact that the same cry of “hard work” is heard at Agnes Scott, as well as at Davidson. Everywhere we are hearing the cry for raised standards and more rigid entrance requirements. No one is satisfied. In the college papers from all over the country, questions are arising as to the object and the benefits to be derived from a college education. In the case of Agnes Scott, she is pleading for more social life on the campus. She partly attributes the lack of social activities to too much work and a lack of time. Whatever the cause, she realizes the disastrous result. The four years of one’s college life come when fun is dearest to the heart, and when social activities can be most thoroughly enjoyed, and if these years are entirely devoted to academic pursuits, they become a Sahara in our life so far as pleasure is concerned. The most liberal thinkers are crying for a compromise between work and play in which each will be given due consideration.

Two Professors to Travel in Europe

While it is a little early to say anything definite on the trips of the professors to Europe this summer, two of Davidson's best-loved and most popular professors have signified their intention of going over. They have laid their plans, are now dreaming of the sights they will see, and the educational benefits of their tour and vacation this summer. The complete itinerary has not been made out, but they plan on visiting the most historic and picturesque places that Europe has to offer.

Dr. W. R. Grey, professor of Latin and assistant professor of French, plans on leaving about the first of May, and expects to be gone during most of the summer. He expects to study modern languages at first hand, as well as derive pleasure from his trip. The trip is made through the generosity of friends, who have kindly furnished him with the well-deserved and long-needed vacation.

Dr. C. M. Richards also expects to cross the seas, but he plans on leaving a little later than Dr. Grey. He will be at Oxford University in time to see his son, McDowell Richards, graduate from that institution. Dr. Richards has for the past 17 years been pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, and assistant professor of Bible. At their recent meeting, the board of trustees made him a full professor, and he has had to resign his pastorate here. His trip is made through the generosity of friends and the faculty, and comes as a well-deserved reward for his 17 years’ service here.

FEBRUARY 18, 1925 (Continued from page 2)

Vance will cavort in his old position in right field. The other two positions will be filled alternately between Johnson, Edwards, Walter Davis, and should any of these hit a slump, Laird, Mauldin, and some of the other pitchers may be shifted to the outer gardens. Johnson will no doubt play centerfield regularly because of his fielding ability as well as his hitting.

Pitchers

The pitchers who will be called on for mound duty are: Oden, a left-hander of last year’s varsity; Hampton, another southpaw, and Oden and Maulden, from the Freshman team of last year. Other men who are out for practice or will be out later, are: McGeachy, Black and Edgar, catchers; Billy Long, Nick Sappenfield, McConnell, Pressly, and Joe Arrowood, who played first base for last year’s Freshmen.

Dr. Chase is being urged on all sides to remain at the University and we have never picked him out for a man who would fail to know which side his bread is buttered on. The spirit of the times has changed, but no more than the spirits.

Pressing Business! Yes, that’s us, but we have plenty of time to do yours and we clean and press ‘em right. Buy a ticket and save the difference.

Proprietors: Tex Tilson and Monk Mattox
Representatives: Bohannon, Liggett, Woodham

YOU’LL ALWAYS FIND A GOOD SHOW AT THE VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE - - - N.C.
WEEKLY PROGRAMME

Fri. and Sat., Feb. 26-27---“Sally” with Colleen Moore.
Mon. and Tues., Mar. 1-2---“The Lost World.” A First National Superspecial.
Wed. and Thurs., Mar. 3-4---“Exchange of Wives” with Eleanor Boardman and Lew Cody.
Fri. and Sat., Mar. 5-6---“The Scarlet West” with Frank Carroll.
Coming March 8-9---Graustark.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)
“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte
MORALLY CONDUCTED

DON’T FORGET TO REMEMBER that we handle one of the finest brands of candy on the market--- HOLLINGSWORTH’S
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

The Intercollegiate Travel Bureau offers you all the modern tours on any means of transportation, to any part of the world. Prices are extremely reasonable because of our efficient organization.

See College Representatives: R. D. KAUFFELT and DON STEWART

France, England, Germany, Etc. This Summer