The Davidsonian

Vol. XIII No. 27

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 14, 1926

College Officials Set Aside This Week To Observe Success of R. O. T. C. Dept.

Remarkable Success of Unit to be Observed

NEW INNOVATION

Special Events Planned for This Week by Officials of Military Department

April 12-17 has been designated as R. O. T. C. Week by the authorities at Davidson College to mark the
climax of a year of work and endeavor along military lines. This is the first time that such a period
has been so designated by the Davidson officials. The main event of this week, and one of the reasons why
this period was called military week, is the inspection of the Davidson senior unit of the Reserved Officers Training Corps.
This inspection will determine whether or not the unit here will be given the Distinguished Rating, the highest honor that
an R. O. T. C. unit can attain, from the War Department.

Much activity has been scheduled for this week and the military atmosphere will pervade the campus throughout the entire period.
On Wednesday night a special picture will be shown at the gym, “The Great Divide,” taken from William Von Moody's
famous stage play. On Wednesday the high point of the week will be reached when the inspecting officers will attend
classes, maneuvers, and drills, to observe the unit and to judge whether or not it is worthy of Distinguished Rating.
There will be no classes after 12:35, all the time of the students to be devoted to the military department.
After the morning drills, the inspection officers and the army officers stationed at Davidson will be entertained at the S.
A. E. house at a military dinner. The officers will then go out to again observe other phases of military
life and tactics as presented by the Davidson unit. The entertainment of the officers while at Davidson will be in
the hands of the officers of the unit here. Captain Weems is in active charge of this and has planned
a number of interesting things for their entertainment. After the afternoon drill, the unit will be (Continued on page 11)

Davidson Defeats Gamecock Netmen

Davidson defeated the University of South Carolina here last Saturday afternoon in the first intercollegiate tennis match of the season,
winning four out of the six matches. In gaining the victory, the Wildcats won three out of the four singles
matches and split with the Gamecocks in the doubles matches, each team winning one. The matches were well played and
hotly contested throughout all the meet, and the margin of victory was unusually small. Several sets went into extra games
due to the evenly matched opponents. The doubles match between Carr and McCutcheon (Davidson) and Wilson and Beattie (Carolina) was
the feature of the play of the afternoon, the Wildcats winning in straight sets in a very fast match. Some
of the best tennis of the afternoon was displayed in this match, each team playing its best in an effort
to turn the margin of victory to their favor.

The single matches were also marked with excellent tennis and fast playing. Both Brown and McAlpine, of Davidson, came from
behind to win their respective matches, after losing the first set to their opponents. Brown's rally was the best exhibition
of an uphill rally seen on the Davidson courts in a long time. McCutcheon, captain of the Wildcat team, also
played a good game and gave Wilson a hard fight before the sets were over. Carr, of Davidson, played the
best tennis of the afternoon, while defeating his man in straight sets in his single match and while aiding McCutcheon
to defeat the first doubles team from Carolina. The following is a summary of the matches:

Singles: Wilson (Carolina) defeated McCutcheon (Davidson), 6-3, 3-6, 6-2. Carr (Davidson) defeated Coleman (Carolina), 6-3, 7-5. Brown (Davidson) defeated Fair
(Carolina), 2-6, 6-4, 8-6. McAlpine (Davidson) defeated Beattie (Carolina), 5-7, 6-1, 8-6.

Doubles: McCutcheon and Carr (Davidson) (Continued on page 2)

Seniors Announce Complete Plans For Interesting Commencement Program

Noted Orators of the South to Speak Here During Commencement

The class of '26 is rapidly rounding its commencement plans into completion. The three speakers have been selected and have
consented to deliver the addresses. Hon. A. M. Scales, of Greensboro, will give the annual Literary Address. Mr. Scales is
a loyal supporter of Davidson and a remarkably successful man. He is a leader in the political circles of the
state. Bishop Penick, of Charlotte, who has on several occasions spoken before the Y. M. C. A. vesper services, is
to deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon to the Senior Class. Bishop Penick is head of the diocese of the Episcopal Church
in North Carolina and is a forceful and attractive speaker. The Y. M. C. A. has asked Prof. K. J.
Foreman, a member of the Davidson faculty, to preach the annual sermon before the Y. M. C. A. on the
Sunday evening of commencement. Professor Foreman has at all times been a very popular instructor in the eyes of the
students and among his traits is the ability to see things from the student’s viewpoint and to present solutions to
problems in a truly helpful way.

The commencement invitations have been ordered and should be ready for distribution in a few days. As has been the
custom for several years each member of the student (Continued on page 12)

McRae Is Elected Glee Club Leader

At a meeting of the Glee Club last Wednesday night John S. McRae, of Maxton, N. C., was elected president.
John Foster and E. L. Douglass were elected vice-presidents, and W. O. Green was chosen as manager. The advance manager
for the club will be chosen at a later date by the executive committee of the Glee Club.

The Glee Club recently completed its third annual tour of the South under the direction of its present officers. D.
G. Wilson is president of the organization at present. Tom Hamilton and John McRae are vice-presidents, L. B. McClain, manager,
and Harllee Branch, Jr., advance manager. The club is bringing its activities to a close after a very successful year.
Besides the Southern tour, concerts have been given in Charlotte, Gastonia, Concord and other nearby towns. Much credit and appreciation
is due Mrs. Coral H. Baker, of Charlotte, for her excellent direction of the club’s work. Plans are being made
for the entrance of

CAPT. GEORGE H. WEEMS

Freshmen Select Their Councilmen

In a recent meeting of the freshman class to select the men to serve on the rising student council, Bob
Covington, of Raeford, N. C., and John T. Roddey, of Rock Hill, S. C., were chosen from a field of
11 men. These two men with Bob Kell, who was elected president of the class, will be the representatives of
the rising sophomore class for next year.

Bob Covington was chosen by the class as its first president in the fall of this year and proved a
good leader, handling the affairs of the class in fine style. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon
fraternity. John T. Roddey is the leading tennis player of the freshman class and will be the backbone of the
team. He is secretary and treasurer of the freshman class this year. Roddey is a member of theBeta Theta Pi
fraternity. The men nominated by the student council were: Riggs McConnell, of Davidson, N.C.; Bob Covington, of Raeford, N.C.; Dick
Kane, of Atlanta, Ga.; and John T. Roddey, of Rock Hill, S.C. Six others were nominated from the floor, all
being eliminated on the first ballot except the five mentioned above. On the second ballot, Kane and McConnell were eliminated,
and Flinn was dropped on the final ballot.

The Freshmen this year have evidenced a great deal of interest in their class and in the welfare of the
college as a whole. This election, along with that of the class officers recently held, paves the way for a
year of successful class activity during the next school term. Their interest in athletics and various other college activities has
not superseded their interest in the affairs that pertain to the management of activities. They have realized that next year
will prove a crucial time for all the members of their class, and that a successful year largely depends upon
their own efforts.

Capt. George H. Weems Completes Three Years of Invaluable Service
Local Commandant Well-Known in Army Circles
ENVIABLE RECORD
Has Had Marked Success in Military Work at Davidson—Other Activities

Two War Department Representatives Here to Inspect Davidson Battalion
Local Unit Competes for Distinguished Rating Today
INTEREST IS HIGH
Davidson Battalion is in Best Condition in Many Years—Discipline Good

Today at the afternoon drill period, the final inspection for Distinguished Rating of the Davidson R.O.T.C. will take place. This
will mark the climax of the two days’ inspection and also the height of the year’s work for this honor.
The result of this inspection will not be made known until the first of June when the War Department will
issue a bulletin to announce all the schools of Distinguished Rating in the country. The officers making this inspection for
the War Department are Maj. Edward A. Stockton and Maj. Thomas J. Johnson. They will inspect and be present at
one section of each class in the military department during the morning class periods. At the morning drill period, they
will observe the battalion while performing the calisthenics and extended order drill. Their final decision will be influenced to a
large degree by the appearance of the entire unit at the review Friday afternoon. The entire battalion will be present
and a regular review will be held. After this, retreat and the final ceremonies relative to the lowering of the
flag will be held at the flagpole.

This inspection was the result of a recommendation by Col. F. W. Rowell, commander of the Fourth Corps Area, who
made a thorough inspection of the unit earlier in the spring. Colonel Rowell inspected all of the schools in this
area with R.O.T.C. units, and Davidson was one of the few selected for a more rigid inspection by the War
Department officials for distinguished rating. The officers who will inspect the unit here have just come from an inspection of
colleges in South Carolina, which were recommended by Colonel Rowell for further inspection for distinguished rating. Among these are Citadel
and Clemson.

Capt. George H. Weems, Professor of Military Science and Tactics, who came to Davidson in the fall of 1923 from
Fort Benning, where he had been stationed as an instructor in machine gun work, has been here at Davidson since
that time and will remain here until the close of next year when his term expires. Captain Weems attended school
at Southwestern Presbyterian College, at Clarksville, Tenn., where he was a leader in campus activities and a member of the
Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity. Upon graduation there, he entered the United States Military Academy at West Point. Here he was
one of the outstanding men of his class, being light-heavyweight wrestling champion, a linesman on the football team, and a
cadet captain during his senior year. He took an active interest in the Y.M.C.A. from the start and was president
of that organization at West Point during his senior year. He graduated in the class of 1916. He entered active
army service upon graduation.

On next Tuesday night, the V.P.I. debating team will appear here against the Davidson team debating the query, “Resolved, That
the military forces of the United States be consolidated into a department of national defense with sub-branches of army, navy,
and air forces.” This is the first time in the history of the present student body that a team has
met this school on the platform. This will be the second and last varsity debate on the hill this year.
The men composing the team representing Davidson are Yancie Bowie and C. W. Williams, with W. A. Christian as alternate.
One other team of Davidson will debate on the same side of the question against Sewanee at Sewanee on April
30th. On this team are Harllee Branch and Don Wharton, with J. C. Barrington as alternate. A dual freshman meet
will be held with the University of North Carolina, one team to go to Carolina and the other to debate
against their team on the Davidson platform.

The Davidson Glee Club will participate in the state contest to be held at Durham in the near future. The
program this year comprises one of the largest forensic programs ever attempted at Davidson College.

Runners Break Three Davidson Records As Wildcats Are Defeated by Carolina
Harry Goodykoontz is Sensation of Meet as He Leads Brilliant Field

Three Davidson College track records were smashed here last Saturday afternoon when the University of North Carolina track team defeated
the Wildcats in a dual track meet by the score of 82 1-2 to 45 1-2. Harry Goodykoontz was the
sensation of the meet, winning three first places, scoring a third of Davidson's points, and breaking two college records. By
running the 100-yard dash in 10 seconds flat and the 220-yard dash in 22 1-2 seconds, he clipped a fifth
of a second off the former records in both of these events. Goodykoontz also won the 440-yard dash, but his
time was slowed up on account of the fact that a dog ran across the track in front of the
runners on the first curve. His time in this race was 52 2-5 seconds, almost two seconds slower than the
college record in this event.

Clement Penn ran the two-mile race in 10 minutes and 26 2-5 seconds, breaking the college record in this race
by 6 4-5 seconds. He had formerly run it in 10 minutes and 25 seconds in practice, but this cannot
be counted as official. Carolina and Davidson divided first places in the running events, but the Tarheels were far superior
in the field and weight contests, taking five first places and tying Davidson in one.

Under the newly elected officers, it is expected that the program will continue to grow and achieve even greater success.
