THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1926

Students Gather at Gym to Hear Report of Game

Three Hundred Listen to Play by Play Detail of Wofford Game

Almost three hundred students assembled in the gym Saturday evening to hear the returns of the Davidson-Wofford game play by
play. A large blackboard was placed at the end of the gym, and each play was marked off by Jim
Kuykendal. An attempt was made to lease a wire to get the returns, but this could not be done because
all the wires were needed after the recent storm in Florida.

Ernest Milton telephoned the returns from the grandstand at Spartanburg, and they were wired here over a direct line to
Harllee Branch, who relayed them from the station to Bill Story, at the gym. An admission charge of 25 cents
was made. A little more than enough to cover the expenses of phoning the returns was taken in. This is
being held over and will be used to help defray the expenses of the V. M. I. game, the returns
of which will be sent back in the same way.

From the roof of the grandstand, Ernest Milton had a good view of the game, and was thus able to
give a good detailed report to those here in the gym. Milton is press agent and was familiar with the
players on both teams. This also helped him in giving his report. This method of relaying the games back for
the benefit of those who are unable to attend them has been used for several years, and has proved very
satisfactory. The minutest details were shown on the blackboard. The different moves were marked off with colored chalk so that
they could be easily distinguished. This enabled the students and others here to see the exact location of the ball
during the whole game.

This same method will be used to send back the returns of the V. M. I. game. This game will
be played further from Davidson than the Wofford game was, and as a result, the returns will be even more
detailed.

R. O. T. C. News

The R. O. T. C. unit at Davidson has developed in a most satisfactory manner in the past two years.
Conclusive proof of its development is shown by the Distinguished Rating conferred by the War Department for the first time
in the history of military training at this institution. And yet, according to Captain Weems, the battalion as a whole
is showing up better than it ever has before at this time of the year. The new men are now
mastering the manual of arms and another two weeks should see the battalion on parade on Wednesday afternoons.

One factor leading to the advanced status of the unit so early in the season is the non-commissioned officers who
were tried out last spring and selected for their places by virtue of ability. The band also, under the competent
leadership of Cadet-Captain John McRae, promises to be better than it has been in the past. Including buglers and drummers,
the band is studying at the Musical School in Washington during this month, getting in shape to furnish music for
the athletic contests held here.

In connection with the R. O. T. C. it might be interesting to know that Davidson's aggregation at Camp McClellan
last summer ranked third among the colleges of the South in general rating, showing up especially well in rifle marksmanship.
The following promotions and assignments in the Davidson College R. O. T. C. battalion have been made:

Tuesday, October 5
5:00—Pan-Hellenic Council.
7:00—Band practice, Armory.
7:30—Biology Club.
7:30—Literary Societies: Pandeinic, election of officers; Junior Philanthropic, Phi Hall.
9:00—Regular Student Council meeting.

Wednesday, October 6
7:00—Glee Club practice, Shearer Hall.
9:00—Sigma Upsilon.

DR. OREN MOORE SPEAKS
(Continued from page 1)

The speaker advised all to know the truth about the one in whom their faith was based. By knowing the
truth about the Savior he said that neither scientists nor theologians would be able to tear down that belief. “The
question is not what a man believes but in whom. With an appeal to the new men to find out
the truth as soon as possible,” Dr. Moore closed his address.

Prof.—“Now Mr. Davis, can you tell me...”

---

Great Hoax at Hands of Malefactors

In the reign of James, the son of Pinkney, yea, in the first year of his rule, even upon the
twenty-fifth day of the ninth month, did a queer thing happen, forsooth, a strange sight was seen by them who
dwelt in the land of Tale, Iscariot.

Darkness blacker than the onyx of many hose, deeper in hue than the face of many janitors, descended upon the
land wherein the Davidsonites dwell. Two sons of deceit, yea, two followers after Belial, dug a pit and made a
snare wherein to catch those who were righteously blind, who were unlearned in the wiles of the beast called Life.

Pewee, the offspring of McCravey, took they and under his outer vestments bound they a rope with a great binding,
verily, bonds placed they about his body. Powder, placed they upon his countenance, that those who gazed thereon might think
that he was nigh unto the portals of Death. In the darkness of the nether-regions of West hung they him
from the ceiling. A loose cord did they tie about his throat, that the ignorant and the stupid might believe
that he had followed the example of Judas; the Iscariot.

But this did all expect. What none did believe was that which verily came to pass. Wilt thou credit my
report, wilt thou trust in the veracity of my writing, if I say unto thee that one who is old
in the land would clamp his ancient molars blindly upon the trap of those vain deceivers?

Yea: I, before all the gods I swear that one who thinks himself one of the world’s wise men did
allow himself to be inveigled into this childish iniquity. Clanton, yea, Clanton of the tribe of Williams, was he who
fell for this deceitful trap and great was the fall thereof. In great haste cuts he down the body; faithfully
does he labor to bring back life.

---

THEATRE
MOORESVILLE WEEKLY PROGRAMME

Friday, Oct. 1—Social Highwayman. Warner Bros.’ production.
Saturday, Oct. 2—Riding Rascal. Starring Art Acord.
Monday, Oct. 4—Woman Power. Fox Production.
Tuesday, Oct. 5—Waning Sex, with Norma Shearer.
Wednesday, Oct. 6—Variety, with Emil Janning, Lya de Putti.
Thursday, Oct. 7—Unknown Soldier. Producer Dist. Corp.

---

Drinks in Statesville

We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Candy Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N. C.

---

This Hotel is Yours

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Regular board—reasonable—and the best your money can buy. Music in the evenings.

AND BANQUETS

---

Can serve you. no matter how large or how small, we

FEEDS

to use for all

us | | how iron was first discovered?” C.-G—'My father—said- they smelt sir.” , ~ | Riley Scott, Poet, Comes
to Davidson | . Professional Notices Last week Davidson had the pleasure of a visit by Riley Scott, famous wandering
poet. Mr. Scott, while delivering a series of lectures in Charlotte, took time to pay a visit here. A victim
of gas in the war, Mr. Scott, for his health has since been touring the country by automobile, writing poetry,
and delivering lectures. He is well known Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65-J DR. VANCE HASTY DENTIST Anderson Building. Court Street Entrance
Commercial National Bank Building STATESVILLE, N. C. Hours: Daily 8 to 5., Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays 12 to 1
is to many of the students through his talks at Montreat and various camps. He was earnestly urged by these
friends to address the students but his engagements prevented it. Mr. Scott's poems are widely read and a large number
of them have been published in the leading anthologies of today’s press. DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN DENTIST 311, 312, 313,
314 and 315 Professional Building Charlotte, N. C. Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-J DAVIDSON BACKFIELD (Continued from page 2) The
rest of the period and most of the next was devoid of interest, with the Davidson coaches sending in a
constant stream of substitutes. The hot weather and the engulfing dust was tiring the men of both teams. The tance
to the goal line behind perfect interference, Allen drop-kicked the point after Davidson kicked off, and after an exchange or
two of punts the game ended. Davidson presented backs season, in an effort to take the Gospel touchdown. The game
was halted several times to allow the atmosphere to clear and to supply the players with water. DR. G. A.
LAZENBY DENTIST Statesville, N. C. Phone 494 Davidson's final count came just before the game closed, when with Wofford in
a vain attempt to again score began hurling passes, McConnell, Davidson star center, grabbed one of DeHihns passes on his
own 45-yard line and raced the rest of the distance to which could not be stopped by the Wofford team.
The superb playing of Leggette and Grey, and the manner in which Sappenfield and Wilson directed the marches of the
Wildcats was especially outstanding. consistently break through the Wofford defense and grab the Terrier backs. Mitchell played a jam-up game
at guard, and the work stopping one of Grey's punts on Wofford’s two-yard line brought applause from the stands. Jack
Hand, quarterback, and B. W. Miller will be cadet sergeants, J. T. Kerr and R. T. Speir will be cadet
corporals. The line-up and summary follow: Davidson (24) Pos. Wofford (6) Player Ceres RH GHie Austin Mitchell Lawton Hall Grey
Sparnell Davidson—Scoring touchdowns: Black, Leggette, McConnell; points after touchdown: Bohannon (2), Allen; field goals: D. Grey. Wofford Scoring touchdown: Davidson
substitutions: McConnell, Vaulden, Leftwich, Pinkney, Sappenfield, Davis, Leggette, Dell, Nisbet, Farwell, Allen, Green, Pressly, of Statesville. Wofford substitutions: Crook, Edwards,
B. W. Rushton, Dean, Berry; P. Dargan, Moseley, McLeod, H. Brown, Owens, Jones, Habel. Harrison (Washington and Lee), referee; Hartsell
(N. C. State), umpire, and Kirkpatrick (N. C. State), linesman. Time of periods: 15, 12, 15, 12. The New ORTHOPHONIC
VICTROLA The Finest Musical Instrument in the World Prices $95 to $1,000 All Models in Stock---Easy Terms NEW RECORDS EVERY
FRIDAY ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon quick he sends a New Boy to the Court Medicine Man; with great
celerity bears the dying man to his habitat. Long and behind him the offspring of a generation of vipers labor
heavily to subdue their mirth. Yea, this deed was done in the reign of James, the son of Pinkney, and
great was the laughter thereat. The rest of the foolish deeds of Clanton, the son of Williams, are they not
written in the Books of the Chronicles of the Wise Men of Davidson? Thursday, September 30 7:30—Literary Societies — Eumenean,
Hall; Philanthropic, Phi, Hall. 9:30—Georgia Club, parlor of Watts, organization meeting. Friday, October 1 7:30—Band practice, Armory. 8:00—Glee Club practice,
Shearer Hall. 9:30—Gamma Sigma Epsilon. Saturday, October 2 3:00—Football, Rock Hill, S. C., Davidson vs. Presbyterian College. 7:30—Movie, Gym, Renee
Adoree in “Blarney.” Sunday, October 3 11:15—Church, Professor Henderson. 2:00—Ministerial Band, Speaker, Mr. J. L. Jackson. 6:15—Y. M. C. A.
Vespers, Rev. J. H. Pressly, of Statesville. Monday, October 4 7:30—Glee Club practice, Shearer Hall. 7:30—Court of Control, parlor of
Watts. 9:00—Omega Phi Alpha, 9:30—Regular Davidsonian Staff meeting.
