6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1926

HOW MANY OF THESE DO YOU KNOW?

Jake Wade, Charlotte Sport Writer, Freshman Nine Defeats Blue Ridge as McClure Allows Only Five Hits

This afternoon marks the date of the Poor Support and Many Errors Mark Loosely Played Game. McClure, pitching ace of the freshmen, turned in 12 strikeouts Saturday afternoon for a Wildkitten win over Blue Ridge. The score was 6 to 3. McClure allowed only 5 singles to the visitors. Case, the Blue Ridge twirler, also pitched an excellent game and allowed the Wildkittens only four hits, but struck out only half the number McClure did. Both pitchers were poorly supported and with air-tight baseball, the game would have been one of the best to be played by the Kittens this season. The Blue Ridge fielders made eight miscues while the Wildkittens were credited with six errors. The noon Kitten hit of the afternoon was a three-bagger by Harper. Only one earned run was made by the freshmen. Littlejohn, who singled, scored on Harper's extra base hit.

Box score:

Blue Ridge AB R H PO A E
1. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
2. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
3. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
4. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
5. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
6. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
7. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
8. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
9. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 27 1 2 7 8

Davidson AB R H PO A E
1. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
2. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
3. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
4. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
5. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
6. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
7. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
8. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
9. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 27 1 2 7 6

Summary: Three base hit, Harper. Sacrifice hits, Brawley, Murray. Base on balls, off Case, 2; McClure, 2. Struck out, by Case, 6; McClure, 8. Left on bases, Blue Ridge, 7; Davidson, 6. Earned runs, Davidson and Laird. Time, 1:50. Umpires, Kugler.

JUNIOR SPEAKING PROGRAM (Continued from page 1)

The club chorus reached the peak with the “Creation’s Hymn” by Beethoven. It was rendered with remarkable harmony and expression. The intermission was very agreeably filled by members of the Dramatic Club playing in the farce “Radioactivity” by Conrad Frederick Smith. Station F. O. B. Detroit, a radio dispensary of static and hot air, was the scene of the comedy. The rare jokes and rarer characterizations caused an abundance of laughs and the cast received great applause at the end. Gordon McSwain as an old farmer was probably the best-drawn character, though Fred Smith as the director, Bill Green as the Scotch philanthropist, Bob Horton as the Ethiopian, and Tyree Dillard in the feminine role were almost perfect.

This Opens Here Today

Opening of Davidson’s first moving picture show. The feature picture for today and tomorrow will be “Madam Behave.” A short comedy will be run as an added attraction. The moving picture show occupies the building formerly known as Carter's garage just opposite Crayton’s garage. The building has been completely renovated and attractively fitted up. The managers of the theater have a contract with one of the largest film producers in the country and first-class productions will be consistently presented to the Davidson students and townspeople. The program for the coming week has not yet been made public. The moving picture show will fulfill a long-felt need at Davidson. Up until this time, the students have been forced to journey to Mooresville to view the productions of the silver screen. A great deal of extra time has been devoted to making the trip back and forth between the two towns. It will now be possible for the students to attend the shows without the resultant loss of time to their studies. The managers of the show have announced that they will co-operate with the Y. M. C. A. management on Saturday in catering to the mill people alone. “Wild West” shows will be run on Saturday nights in pursuance of this plan. In this way, the “Y” will not be deprived of its only source of income. A former Davidson student is the proprietor of the show house.

LENOIR-RHYNE DEFEATED (Continued from page 1)

Davidson AB R H PO A E
Woodham, 1b 1 0 1 0 0
2. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
3. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
4. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
5. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
6. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
7. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
8. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
9. D. (GE) 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 32 6 10 27 10 2

*Brown batted for Karriker in 9th.
**Davis batted for Glenn in 5th.
***Black batted twice for Huie in 8th.

Score by innings R H E
Lenoir-Rhyne 010 120 010—5 11 2
Davidson 000 000 06x—6 10 2

Summary: Two-base hits: Owl, Hodge, Johnson, F. Kugler; three-base hits: Whisenhunt, Vance; sacrifice hits: Clemner (2), Laird; stolen bases: Hodge (2), Owl; Dulin; double play: J. Kugler to F. Kugler; base on balls: off Moose 2, off Laird 1; struck out: by Moose 2, by Huie 5; hits: off Huie 11 with 5 runs in 8 innings, off Laird 1 with 0 runs in 1 inning; hit by pitched ball: Dulin, Black (by Moose); left on bases: Lenoir 6, Davidson 7; earned runs: Lenoir 4, Davidson 6; winning pitcher: Laird; umpire: time: 1:46.

The following article is a replica of one which appeared in the Charlotte Observer on Thursday, April 1st. It was taken from the column known as “Jake Wade's Sport Whirl.” It tells of the Davidson spirit which is known throughout the south today. It is a recognition of years of endeavor to build up a true “Wildcat Spirit.” The article follows:

Maybe the well-known pessimism of that astute coach at Davidson College, Monk Younger, will be reduced a considerable degree by the news from Gastonia that four of Pat Crawford’s best football players last season will enter Davidson. Monk has been weeping dark and dreary about the great football prospects for the coming two years. With Laird and Vance and other of his famous fighting Wildcats about to bid adieu to “Our Davidson,” Monk has seen fit to issue statements conveying only

“D” Club Sponsors Athletic Meeting On Wednesday March31, the “D” Club sponsored Davidson's first “Athletic Night.” The event was a huge success and established a much-needed custom at Davidson. Speeches were made, athletic certificates were awarded, and the complete roster of the “D” Club was presented to the public in a body for the first time. Hardly half of the student body were present, but praises of these were unanimous.

Tom Baker, under the constant direction and supervision of Coach Monk Younger, acted as master of ceremonies. Monk, in the manner of Knute Rockne, was the hit of the evening with his introductions. His wit, although not always intentional, added greatly to the occasion.

Mr. Currie, city clerk of Charlotte and brother of John Currie, opened the program with a short talk on athletics at Davidson. He lauded the Wildcat spirit and advocated the significance of athletics at Davidson. The other day, at the close of spring football practice, Monk is quoted as saying that he calculated the Wildcats would win at least two games next fall. Laugh that off.

Following this talk, the basketball certificates were given out and a number of alumni gave brief talks. Dr. Oren Moore, a prominent World War hero, kept the audience in an uproar with his wise sallies. The four Gastonia athletes last fall, lettermen in wrestling, helped to win the state championship for the town from whence they hail. They will or ought to be fine material for Monk Younger. They were on a fighting team last fall, and that’s the kind of team that Monk invariably puts out.

The boys who have decided to cast their lot with the Wildcat institution, in search of football careers, are Phil Jackson, halfback; Rudolph Carson, tackle; Ed Rutter, quarterback; and George Henderson, end. There is many a college in the country that would give a pretty penny to take on these boys with hopes of developing their gridiron ability. There are quite a few energetic, honest, and ambitious alumni associations hereabouts which would have seen to it that any member of this quartet was well-fed and well-sheltered, had he agreed to adorn his alma mater’s athletic field. But it’s a safe assumption that the Gastonia boys go to Davidson with nothing promised them except some hard hours in the classroom if they want to pass, some stiff workouts on the athletic field if they want to make Monk Younger’s eleven, and perhaps pretty pearl pins from the lodges if they show the necessary savoir-faire.

One of them, Phil Jackson, stellar halfback, will wait on the table in the dining hall in order to defray part of his expenses, we are told. Phil could have selected either of several institutions we know and spent that time and labor he will need for waiting on the table in playing bridge, and had nothing to worry about expenses. Some may put it down as baloney, but the writer is told that sentiment caused the boys to make their selection. One of them is quoted as saying that the clean sportsmanship of the Davidson players and coaches last fall won the admiration of the young high school stars. Another one said: “I couldn’t help but want to go to Davidson and fight hard for Davidson.”

So again Davidson's celebrated fighting spirit wins where lucre failed, and unless we miss our guess, you'll hear from these Gastonia football players some day. Johnny Frederick, all-state fullback, and a sensation in high school circles last season, is undecided where he will go. Duke, Carolina, and Wake Forest are all vying for him. Either of this trio will be powerfully lucky to get this boy.

The work of two former students of the University of Kansas has been listed among the 40 best books published in the United States during the past year. These books, which are to be distributed abroad by the League of Nations, include William Allen White's “Woodrow Wilson” and “Evolution” by Vernon Kellogg.

Freshman Captain Weems presented Flythe with a medal as the best wrestler in his class. Following this, Flake Laird stated that there were four men who had rendered valuable assistance to the “D” Club and in recognition of this fact the club had elected them to honorary membership. The men elected were Captain George H. Weems, Coach Tex Tilson, Coach Monk Younger, and former Coach Clarence W. Rawson, who is now head of the athletic department at Charlotte High School.

Dr. Oren Moore presented the members of the football team with gold footballs. Jim Pinkney then announced that the “D” Club wished to honor a lady who had been an inspiration to athletes at Davidson. This lady, he stated, was Mrs. Oren Moore. He then presented her with a gold football and chain as a gift from the “D” Club.

Dr. Oren Moore once more arose upon request to present the Norris trophy. He gave a short history of the cup and then presented it to Harry Vance as the best all-round athlete at Davidson this year. The meeting was closed with the singing of “O Davidson.” The Davidsonians rendered intermittent selections to vary the program. Coach Younger and the “D” Club were highly satisfied with the success of the meeting and Coach Younger announced that it would be installed as an annual affair.

Northwestern University expelled one of the stars on its swimming team when he married a sophomore co-ed in violation of the rule prohibiting marriage of students without consent of parents or guardians while residents of that institution. The bride was also expelled, but she had already dropped her classes.

New sanitary precept as enforced at The University of Oklahoma. A ban has been placed on rouge and powder in the swimming pool at the University of Oklahoma. According to a new ruling issued last week, no woman who has on rouge and powder will be admitted to the University pool.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314, and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5059
Telephone South Tryon Street
Office 3171 Res. 3419-W

Garibaldi & Bruns

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.
Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST
Charlotte, N.C.

Eyes Examined
Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
Charlotte, N.C.
Telephone 3528

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown's Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
The Best Places to Eat

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS
RECORDS AND ROLLS
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC
ANDREW MUSIC STORE
“OLDEST IN THE STATE”
213 N. Tryon St.