THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1926

Flashes of Action Shown at Davidson Theatre Under Auspices of R. O. T. C.

On last Wednesday afternoon, May 5th, the R. O. T. C. unit of Davidson College put on a war picture
at the Davidson Theatre for the special benefit of the R. O. T. C. students. The title of the picture
was “Flashes of Action.” The management of the theatre generously co-operated with Captain Weems in obtaining this picture by charging
him no rent for the theatre but only the expense in showing the picture. A small admission fee of 15
cents was charged to cover this expense. As there was a large crowd present to see the picture, a surplus
was taken in over the expense, which will be used in buying insignia for men on the rifle team.

The main picture was preceded by a picture of the West Point cadets in various marching and calisthenic exercises. Flashes
of Action begins with a picture of the American troops departing for France and ends with their return to the
United States. The main part of the picture gives scenes of the American soldiers in action. It shows long lines
of advancing foot troops with here and there casualties caused by a bursting shell or well-directed machine gun fire. Besides
the scenes depicting infantry advances, there are scenes showing heavy American artillery in action, poison gas attacks from the enemy
lines, a naval fight with a hostile submarine, hand grenade skirmishes, and, in one case, a road covered with German
dead, victims of deadly American fire.

This picture was also put on by the Davidson-Cornelius Post of the American Legion for the purpose of raising funds
for disabled veterans of the World War. On Sunday afternoon, May 9th, memorial services were held by the Davidson-Cornelius Post
of the American Legion at the Davidson Cemetery and later at the cemetery in Cornelius. A squad of Davidson cadets,
under the charge of Capt. L. L. Deck, headed the procession from the Presbyterian Church to the cemetery. After a
short service was held and the graves were decorated by the Girl Scouts, a salute was fired and taps were
blown by the bugler. The squad was then taken to Cornelius, where the same ceremony was repeated.

At Wednesday's drill, 14 medals and two cups were awarded to various men and units of the Davidson battalion of
the Reserved Officers’ Training Corps that have become distinguished in some line during the past year. Three trophies were awarded
through the generosity of the alumni of Davidson College and other friends of the institution.

HIS USUAL PLEA
Judge—“You are charged with shooting squirrels out of season.”
McCarty—“Your honor, I shot them in self-defense.”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
MON. AND TUESDAY
“We Moderns” Coleen Moore
WED. AND THURSDAY
“The Wilderness Woman.” Aileen Pringle. First National
FRIDAY
Red LaRoque in “Brave Heart,” a football story
SATURDAY
A good Western. Comedy every day.

Ministerial Band Hears Mrs. Vowles
Mrs. Guy R. Vowles was the speaker at the Ministerial Band meeting in Shearer Hall on last Sunday afternoon. Tom
Hill and Charles McCrae led the meeting in prayer, after which Don Stewart read the scripture lesson taken from Luke
2:46-52, and John 19:25-30. Mrs. Vowles then favored the members with a vocal number, “The Cradle Song.” Dr. Vowles closed
the meeting with a prayer.

Saturday night at the movies Brown of Harvard will be shown. This is classed as the best picture of college
life ever produced. It is a Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer production adapted from Rida Johnson Young's celebrated stage play by A. P. Younger.

Brown of Harvard to be Shown at Gym Saturday
This Picture Rates Above the Midshipman and Classmates

In speaking on a Mother's Day subject, Mrs. Vowles said that her first feeling was one of gratitude to Jesus
Christ through whom a richer field for womanhood had been opened up. She said that no nation rises higher than
its womanhood and that nowhere has woman been so highly exalted as mothers than in America. This picture is typical
of college life, full of football, house parties, romance, and regular college life. William Haines as Tom Brown plays the
leading part. Co-starring with him are Jack Pickford, Mary Brian, Mary Alden, and Frances X. Bushman, Jr. This picture is
taken from the campus of Harvard and again a movie star can say that he went through college in an
hour. The many pranks played on Tom as a freshman add humor to the picture. His struggle on the football
squad is rewarded at last by getting into a game. The rivalry of William Haines and Jack Pickford over the
hand of Mary Brian leads the romantic trend to the movie.

Mrs. Vowles spoke of Jesus’ experience in the temple when Mary took Him to task after searching for Him for
quite a long while. “Mary restored a world of uplift and honor to mothers,” she stated. And then she mentioned
how thoughtful Christ was of His mother—even in the agony of the cross. She said that we owe three debts
to mothers. One of gratitude to the mothers of yesterday; one of assistance to those of today; and that of
protection to the mothers of tomorrow. Saying that every man loves one woman...of Harvard is to Harvard what The Midshipman
is to Annapolis and Classmates to West Point. It is the only picture ever produced that shows the life of
one of the “Big Three.” Of the three, Brown of Harvard is classed as the best, showing more of the
social side of college life.

RECENT ISSUE OF THE CHAMELEON
(Continued from page 1)

“The children of today have better trained...”

Central Cafeteria on the Square, and she gave an exhortation to honor mothers by love. “One man,” she stated, “said
that life without love is impossible.” In concluding, Mrs. Vowles read the poem “To Mother,” by Nancy Hood Reed:

If I could return to my mother a gift for her kindness to me,
For sacrifice, love, and devotion,
For the things she has taught me to be,
For the pictures which hang on memory's wall
Which she paints with motherly care,
For the heavenly chords of love and life
Which she sang that I might hear.
I'd ask the stars for their twinkle,
The birds for their happy sweet song,
I'd gather the fragrance and blush of the rose
And the first bright tints of the dawn,
I'd ask a smile from an angel,
A strain from the choir above
I'd tie them up with affection’s cords
And present them to her with my love.

Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
The Best Places to Eat
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T.S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

Is everything established just another form of intellectual egotism? Warren Ogden’s “Dialogue” deserves especial mention for the original way in
which he treated a very delightful theme; and the essay “Gods and Demons,” written by one who assumes the nom
de plume of “L’Iconoclaste” but whose very style belies his identity, is an ingenious bit of satire. J. H. Caligan
in his “Indian Song” failed to mount the heights that have been his since he assumed the lead in poetic
expression here, but his poem was nevertheless well worth reading. Jimmie Wharton added a star to his literary crown with
his entrancing little sketch “White Clouds and Youth;” and the distinctly American Mercury idea of a “Sahara” won no little
praise from readers of the magazine, although it is highly doubtful that a librarian, who has failed to preserve the
Davidson College Magazine since 1921, will find any particular reason for adding The Chameleon to her growing list of antiques
in the library. Just why Wood Brown, for it was certainly Wood, insisted on signing his name to the “Cinquain”
as “Max Provost” is by far the most individual product of his in the magazine. Robert Brittain with his “Sonnet”
was less delightful than in his play “Voices.” (Perhaps this is due, however, to a predominance of Babbitism among his
critics.) Other contributors deserve mention, particularly those of C. F. Smith, H. M. Austin, and that new but entirely satisfying
humorist “Ometa Goos.”

The magazine rivals in its contents the best that has been published at Davidson in many years, in spite of
the fact that it was far too much the product of a certain group of students, whose vehement attacks on
a prevailing Babbitism (how many times was that word used in the issue?) at Davidson bespeak an utter disgust of
other lesser mental lights and a self-centered claim for the title of “intelligentsia.”

SUMMARY OF GAMES
(Continued from page 2)

Davidson 4 Quantico Marines ------ 7
Davidson 19 Oak Ridge Institute ---- 13
Davidson 6 Lenoir-Rhyne College -- 5
Davidson 9 University of N. Car. ---- 8
Davidson 9 Salisbury League ------- 14
Davidson 2 Duke University -------- 13
Davidson 10 N.C. State ------------- 8
Davidson 11 N.C. State ------------- 2
Davidson 9 Furman University ----- 10
Davidson 0 Clemson College -------- 9
Davidson 2 Guilford College -------- 11
Davidson 7 Virginia Military In. ---- 5
Davidson 2 Washington & Lee ------ 11
Davidson 10 Roanoke College ------- 1
Davidson 12 Elon College ----------- 11
Davidson 5 Duke University -------- 8

Games won—8. Games lost—8.

And the bigger they are, the harder they fall, as Shakespeare or somebody said. You can prove this beyond question
with a jimmy-pipe anywhere. As a matter of fact, tackling pipe-grouches is P. A.’s regular business. Cool and sweet and
fragrant, P. A.’s wonderful smoke comes curling up the pipe-stem, filling your system with a new brand of pipe-pleasure. You
smoke—and smile! For the first time in your life, you’ve found the one tobacco that scales to your blueprint of
bliss. P. A. never bites your tongue or parches your throat. Those important items were taken care of in the
original plans by the Prince Albert process. Get yourself a tidy red tin of this friendly tobacco—no other tobacco is
like it! Slow or fast, no matter how you feed it, P. A. throws of Prince Albert. Any time. P.A.
is sold in tidy red tins, and half-pound tin humidors and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with
every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.
