6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4, 1926

It is our opinion that the Freshman basketball team will contribute a couple of good men to the varsity next year. We might miss our guess, but we believe that Crawford is going to develop into as great a star as his brother. His shots were short in Monday’s game, but he has the right aim, and shoots in the same style that characterized “Pat's” playing back two years ago.

Mrs. W. H. Wooten, with her daughter, Mrs. Willis Johnston, of Mooresville, have been visiting relatives in Clarksville.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5050 Residence, 1937-3
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Telephones
12 South Tryon Street
Office 8171 Res. 8419-W
Over Garibaldi & Bruns

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.
Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST
Charlotte, N.C.

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
24 South Tryon St. Up Stairs
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Telephone 3528

Fresh Country Vegetables
Staple and Fancy Groceries
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
Davidson, N.C.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see
FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

The students had the privilege of hearing Bishop Penick, of Charlotte, at the Y. M. C. A. service last Sunday evening. It was one of the most impressive talks ever given here and a large per cent of the student body was present. Special music was rendered by Thompson, Wurzel, and Albright, after which Hebe McIlwaine read from the tenth chapter of Luke for the lesson of the evening. Dr. T. W. Lingle then introduced the speaker and spoke of him in very high and worthy terms. Bishop Penick was already known to many of the students as he spoke before the “Y” last year.

He began his talk by the urge that everyone should have a positive attitude toward life. He recounted an event in the life of Leonardo da Vinci when he inspected some new work of art. When asked why he did not criticize this rotten work, he said that he spoke by deeds. It was what a man did in this world and not what he did not do that made his name. “Christ came into the world and spoke to people who knew the decalogue and lived by the rules set down as things they should not do but it never occurred that they must do things and He established this new emphasis and substituted aspiration for negation. He told them that they were the salt of the earth and were to give it sweetness and flavor but if they did not do this they were salt without savor.”

To illustrate his point, Bishop Penick used three parables. He used the parable of the talents which the man gave his servants. “The servant to whom the landlord gave one talent, returned it just as he had received it and had not squandered it but had kept it for his master. When he returned his talent he was called wicked and slothful because he had simply done nothing. The second parable was that of the Good Samaritan whom the thieves robbed and left in the ditch beaten and suffering. “The priest came along on his way from Jericho to Jerusalem and saw the man in the ditch. The people of Jerusalem were waiting for him and so he decided to leave the Samaritan in the ditch and go on. Likewise, the Levite came along and left him. The people would wish to be as good as the priest or the Levite but these had sinned. They did the man no harm but they did nothing for him.” The third was of the rich man and Lazarus. Lazarus was at the gate of the rich man who came out and saw him but did nothing for him. “The rich man was not sinful and lived well, keeping the commandments, but when he saw his duty he shirked it even at his own gate and he was punished for the sin.”

“We must have a positive attitude toward life. Men are not known in this world for their blamelessness but they are judged according to the good that they do. We must have an open mind and free from prejudice, so that God may come in and help us. Everyone is different and therefore we must understand each other better.”

“Another point of view is confidence in our fellow man. We must trust him and not look through the key-hole and suspect him.” He gave the honor system, as it was first put before him when he was yet very young, as an example of confidence in each other, and his sense of duty to live up to this trust put upon him. “We must trust in God. The nearness of God is a modern idea. Some seamen were lost and were perishing as their water had run out.”

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N.C.

Noted Episcopal Bishop Speaks Before Students in ‘Y’ Vespers Sunday Evening

Mrs. I. C. You wishes to extend her grateful appreciation to the numerous society items that have been handed in to her during the past week. All social notes and activities of the various groups will be received most gratefully. (Editor’s Note: Mrs. I. C. U. has lost many rubles since she made her magnanimous offer to give one ruble for every word published and wishes to withdraw said offer immediately).

Mr. F. Awful Alford, illustrious captain of the Wildcat nine and a popular member of the Senior class and Lion Tamers club, spent his mid-winter vacation at his winter home in Chipley, Fla., hunting (emphasis on the hunting, please) doves, turtle, and swamp chickens.

Mr. Witless Hancock, of the Sophomore class, is a most attractive man to the ladies, as proved by a conversation with a fair damsel at Converse last Saturday:
Young Lady—Won't you please stay to supper with us? We won't have anything extra, but we'll be glad to have you.
D. W.—Aw, that's all right, we're used to poor food.

The dashing captain of the quintet, Green F. Laird, also gave the ladies at Converse a treat last weekend for the second Sunday in succession. One girl, during the mad rush, was heard to coo into the ear of her roommate, “O, wouldn't you just love to have a date with that big handsome brute?”

Our cub reporter, Sagacious Slimy Sloopy Lingle, took his dazzling Karo Kisses jacket to Richmond last week for the purpose of blinding the eyes of a certain young lady there. All went well until our noble writer called up said young lady, but certain complications arose and young Lingle was unable to see the apple of his eye. Heis now in the infirmary, recuperating from a broken heart and color blindness. Two wild westerners, Holly Branch and Bandit Farnsworth, donned their sombreros and hit the trail for Atlanta last weekend. While there, Branch made an interesting talk over the radio station B.U.L.L., on the subject of feminine wearing apparel. He stressed the proper clothing of the limbs and pedal extremities. It was a heart-to-heart and head-to-foot talk. It is rumored that Branch is in the employ of a national hosiery concern.

Mr. Hardy Bordow and Tiny Joiner, the two attractive members of the Joino-Bordo Duo, are practicing daily preparing for the coming Charleston contest to be held at the Imperial Theater in Charlotte. Mr. Joiner, when interviewed, expressed the utmost confidence, saying they would win in a walkaway.

It is said that more illustrious men are born in February than in any other month. Such must be the case. Mr. Conehead Fredderwreck Smythe announces that he will pitch a big birthday party as soon as he can decide which of the elite of Davidson society he will invite.

Rollicking Rolling Stone Parker, Chief Bellhop of the Senior class, has returned to work once more after his extended vacation during exams. The student body notes with pride the increasing number of co-eds, but according to an announcement made by Mr. Jackson in the fall, we still have room for 215 more.

The following was written by the students of Alabama to the Charlotte Observer: “The Charlotte Observer—‘hardship, find the lost man and take him to the rescue they restore Duncan's commission. No defalcation.’”

Walter Pharr Sloan, of the Sixth Squad of time-honored and age-old friend, General “Classmates” is Feature Saturday Garrison Books Screen Star’s Latest Starring Vehicle for Week-End Entertainment. The picture “Classmates,” featuring Richard Barthelmess and depicting the cadet life at West Point, is to be shown at the gym on the night of Saturday, the 6th. Barthelmess, as Duncan Irving, Jr., is the son of a humble resident of Pine Level, North Carolina. He is very much in love with Sylvia Randolph, the ward of the wealthy Stafford family, and it is because of the social distinction between himself and this young lady that he wishes to push himself forward and seeks entrance at West Point. After several futile attempts, his hope is realized and Duncan begins his cadet life. He finds several true friends among his fellow “plebes” and likes the new life from the start. Later, Bert Stafford, at the insistence of his mother and sister, also enters West Point. He has some stubborn characteristics and resents Duncan’s efforts to train and help him. Duncan and Sylvia soon become engaged, however, and Sylvia makes Duncan promise to look out for Stafford and to be patient with him. He does his best to get along with Bert, but one day after the big dance of the year, Bert insults him before several fellow students, and Duncan knocks him down. Bert is not really seriously hurt, but he pretends to be blinded, and causes Duncan's dismissal and also the breaking of his engagement. Duncan becomes an engineer but is not able to redeem himself in the eyes of Sylvia, who has heard a false report of his conduct from Mrs. Stafford. Bert has also left the academy and become an engineer, and, after several months, Duncan hears that he has been lost in the jungles of South America. He realizes that the only way for him to square himself is to find Bert and bring him back safely, and as a result, he sets out on this quest immediately, with several of his friends. They plunge immediately into the jungles and, after weeks of struggle and hardship, find the lost man and take him back safely. When the authorities hear of the rescue, they restore Duncan's commission to him and the story ends with the marriage of Duncan and Sylvia at West Point.

The athletics started with a rush after the examinations, with something almost every night this week. First was the Freshman game with the little Deacons Monday night. The varsity went over to Concord Tuesday night. Tonight the Freshmen play Duke yearlings. Tomorrow night Concord brings their wrestling team here, and boxing matches will intersperse the program. Saturday night, the Quakers will be here. In addition, the athletic field is well sprayed with human anatomies in the football practice. Anybody need any exercise? There is still track and tennis, and campus football is still playable.

WILDCATS

Have those old shoes rebuilt. Service is our watchword.
E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP
Representatives: STEVE WALL and J. A. LAW

Ginger Ale
Cantrell & Cochrane, Ltd.
DUBLIN BELFAST NEW YORK
E. & J. Burke, Ltd.
Sole Agents U. S. and Canada
Long Island City, N. Y.

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

ART FLOWER SHOP
The home of Beautiful Flowers
Flowers for the Home, Weddings, and all Occasions
Expert Designing
Prompt Delivery
ART FLOWER SHOP
DAVIS ROBINSON, Prop.
336 N. Tryon Street
Phone 6728
Charlotte, N. C.
Night Phone—County 3321-3260

“Sic transit—gloria mardi.”

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS, VICTROLAS

“Gentlemen (the whole crew, Col. Wade Harris, also Miss Addie C included) please mail to me, a Cornfed veteran, the Daily Observer (none Sunday) for three (3) months. I will come down as soon as the weather will permit me to pass through the picket line, so to speak. I am asking you not to let down the bars. Just put my purchase ticket in the cash drawer and count it cash. Thanks in advance. So mote it be.
W. P. SLOAN. (WALTER PHARR SLOAN).
Davidson, N. C., Jan. 30, 1926.
P. S. I hope to receive a copy of the paper immediately after this Edict reaches Headquarters.
P. S. No. 2—
“Roll on snow-shaded moon
And guide this message on its way
Do not on the way stop to fool
Or you may meet a Tin Lizzie on a rampage.”
Plane love to all.

INSURANCE
We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price of not carrying it.
McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13)
Independence Trust Co.
Charlotte, N.C.
OLDEST IN THE STATE
Insurance Department.

RECORDS AND ROLLS
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.