8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 21, 1926

Prominent Speakers to Appear at ‘Y’ Services Within the Near Future

Many Well-Known Speakers to Come Here at an Early Date

Next Sunday, January 24th, Mr. William Hendren, of Winston-Salem, will be the speaker at the Y. M. C. A. service. Mr. Hendren is at present practicing law and is a well-known personage and a very spirited, talented speaker. He carries the distinction of being the president of the North Carolina Bar Association, an office of no small importance.

On the following Sunday, January 31, Bishop Edward A. Penick of Charlotte will speak. Bishop Penick is the Bishop of the Diocese of North Carolina. He will be remembered by many because of his most enjoyable and forceful talk of last year.

The first Sunday in February will bring Mr. Stitt Wilson, who is a nationally-known lecturer and speaker. Under the supervision of the Southern division of the Y. M. C. A., he is touring the southern colleges and universities. He is a thinker of the modern school and will bring a message that will apply to the young men of today. Watch for Mr. Wilson.

On February 14th, a deputation from the Louisville Theological Seminary will have charge of the service. Then Dr. D. H. Ogden, of a large Presbyterian Church in Mobile, Ala., will open a series of talks at the vesper service for Sunday, February 21. Dr. Ogden is one of the foremost southern preachers and orators and his services are much in demand.

Juniors and Seniors to Hold Preliminaries Soon

Many Men Show Interest in Oratorical Contests

The date for the preliminaries of the senior oratorical contest as announced by the Forensic Council will be February 20th. This date was selected so as not to conflict with either the examinations or the spring debating tryouts. A large number of seniors are expected to take part in these preliminaries. The class of ’26 has many who have shown marked ability along this line. Among those who have signified their intentions of entering are: H. L. Shaw, Jr., E. T. Pullen, A. Y. Bowie, R. B. Parker, A. H. Hollingsworth, G. M. Eddington, J. M. Garrison, J. E. Moore, B. U. Ratchford. Others are expected to enter before the tryout is held. With this bunch of speakers and others who will enter, the competition should be close, with many good orations given. From this tryout, four of the speakers will be chosen to compete for the senior Oratorical medal. The finals are held during the week of commencement. This contest should be a fitting climax of a year of great forensic achievement.

In the preliminaries for the junior oratorical medal, held just before the Christmas holidays, the following men were selected to enter the finals: C. G. Davis, D. H. Stewart, L. M. McCutchen, T. G. McCutchen, C. W. Williams, and W. C. Ogden. These men are all prominent men of their class and will compete for the medal during Junior Speaking. Their subjects are of the varied types and afford a well-balanced program. C. G. Davis has selected as his subject, “Loyalty and World Peace,” D. H. Stewart will speak on “The Choice of a Leader,” L. M. McCutchen’s oration will be on “The Opportunity of America,” while T. G. McCutchen’s will be on “Intellectual Egotism.” C. W. Williams, whose subject is “A Man of God,” and W. C. Ogden, whose is “The Viking,” will make up the finals. With these speakers and subjects, we are looking forward to a great contest in April. These two contests are the only opportunities afforded the members of these two classes to show their oratorical ability.

Town News

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Grey, of Hendersonville, N. C., spent the weekend with Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey. Mrs. Query, mother of Mrs. W. R. Grey, is visiting her daughter this week. Mrs. A. Y. Currie, of Louisville, Ky., is visiting her mother, Mrs. W. J. Martin. The Annual Praise meeting of the Woman’s Auxiliary was held in the Presbyterian Church last Thursday evening. A pageant was given, directed by Mrs. W. J. Martin, and a paper was read, covering the work done during the past year. Captain and Mrs. R. D. Daugherty entertained at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel last Tuesday evening in honor of Colonel Rowell.

ALHAMBRA

THUR., FRI., SAT.

TOM MIX AND TONY, THE WONDER HORSE IN “EVERLASTING WHISPER”

Wonder Film Will be Shown at Gym

“The Lost World,” perhaps the most sensational picture of the year, will be shown at the gymnasium Saturday night, January 30th. This picture reverts back to the prehistoric ages and gives in full detail the loves and emotions of the caveman. The most remarkable scene in the picture is the presentation of a fight between two dinosaurs. The price of filming this one scene was enormous. The images of the dinosaurs were made by a New Jersey company and were operated by electric motors, twelve in number. The deception is so perfect that it can hardly be told from the real thing. Anyone who misses this picture will pass up the opportunity of a lifetime of seeing a real presentation depicting prehistoric times.

Next Saturday night, “The Midshipman” will be shown. This picture was taken within the walls of the Annapolis Academy and is a perfect picture of the life there. Permission to film this production was obtained from the government only with the utmost difficulty. No one should miss this opportunity to see the life of the men in the United States Naval Academy.

“Classmates” is a similar production to “The Midshipman.” However, this depicts the life at West Point in the Army School. It is understood that this institution was somewhat jealous of the Naval School and contrived in some manner to have pictures taken of life within their walls. This picture comes to the gym on the night of Saturday, February 6th.

“Sally, Irene and Mary” will be shown on the 13th of February. The picture is taken from the great stage success. Mary O’Brien is the star in the role of Mary. This young lady was picked by Cecil De Mille as the most outstanding young player of the year. The success of her pictures has carried out this conclusion. There are few who can compare with her for beauty and her acting is perfect.

On February 27th, “Shamrock” will be shown. Little can be said about this picture at the present time. However, it can be said with certainty that this picture will not fall short of the other pictures which have been shown this year, and no one can protest against the quality of pictures shown so far this fall.

PLANS FOR JUNIOR SPEAKING

(Continued from page 1)

It is considered expedient by the members of the special committee to have the various numbers on the program come as a surprise to the students. It has been stated, however, that a number of special athletic features have been scheduled along with performances of the Glee Club and Dramatic Club. It is also understood that a special portion of the program will be devoted to the Junior Oratoricals at the request of the Forensic Council. The annual entertainment in the gymnasium will be one of the most unique and amusing that has been presented in a number of years. Nothing of the nature of the entertainment could be learned beyond the fact that it will not be along the same type as that of the past two seasons, and that it will be a complete departure from the usual minstrel and circus type.

Work has also been commenced on the Junior Speaking magazine, which will retain the name of “Sanity Rare.” All students, regardless of class, have been urged to contribute material for publication in the magazine. Humorous stories, jokes, and illustrations will be welcomed by the editor. All fraternities will entertain during the Junior Speaking holidays with house parties, and all students will do well to invite a girl up for the occasion. The festivities will commence on April 8th and will continue through the evening of April 12th.Inspecting officer of the United States R.O.T.C. department for the fourth corps area.

Tuesday evening, the Thelemite Club was entertained by Mrs. J. W. McConnell at her home. The occasion was in honor of Dr. McConnell’s ever-recurring birthday.

Endeavorers Hold Weekly Exercises

The Christian Endeavor Training class held its regular meeting last Sunday at 1:30. After opening with the customary song service and prayer, President W. T. Covington appointed various committees for carrying on the work for February. Wm. E. Hill, the leader for the meeting, talked of the history of the Christian Endeavor Society. Stating that the society was organized in 1881, at Portland, Maine, he followed the story through the first convention in 1882, and the election in 1888 of Dr. Clark as first united leader, up to the present time. Some noteworthy facts presented were that the Christian Endeavor has societies in all the large countries in the world, and that more than 80 religions use the Christian Endeavor Society. Jeff Garrison then gave a very interesting account of the Young People’s Convention held recently in Atlanta, and Hill ended the program by outlining the class’ plans for February.

LARGE AUDIENCE ENJOYS (Continued from page 1)

Ben Ratchford, taking the part of colonel, was the best actor in the play, and together with his sonorous voice showed good talent. The cast for the play was as follows:
Colonel Motley - Robert Lindsay
Roderick Stewart - Will Ben Ratchford
Wood Brown - Henry Powell
Tyree Dillard - John McNeely
Mrs. Motley - Miss Johnsie Shelton
Mary Lindsay - Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld

Val Guthry was to have taken the part of Roderick Stewart, but he became ill on the afternoon before the performance. Henry Powell took his part and did it admirably, even though he had had so little time to practice.

The second play, “Tailor Made,” was by far the best of the evening. Two lovers quarrel and separate. Fred Smith, taking the part of Eb Pashly, contrives to bring them together again. Though the plot was far from being a deep one, the humor of the situation made up for it. In fact, the love affair was in the background compared to the dialogue between Smith and Deck, taking the part of Captain Billy Harwood. They frankly discussed the modern generation in a manner which kept the audience in an uproar throughout the performance. The cast of characters was as follows:
Bob Weston - Frank Wilkinson
Eb Pashly - Frederick Smith
Captain Billy Harwood - Linton Deck
Dorothy Grayson - Miss Ruth Erwin
Betty Park - Miss Sarah Thompson

The final play was a creation intended to show the battle between ignorance and science. An astronomer is held in prison by heathen worshippers of the sun god and is condemned to die for profaning his powers. He contrives to escape from the prison and overthrows the image of the god, thereby becoming “The Conqueror of the Gods.” The plot gave all promise of being the best of the evening and it is a pity that it should have turned out in such an unsatisfying manner. Perhaps there was no other way to end it. It depicted wonderfully, however, the tendency of heathen worshippers to grab at straws in their worship and to be exceedingly fickle to those whom they worship. It rather reverts the mind to Bible times. The cast of characters was as follows:
Priest - H. M. Austin
Astronomer - S. W. Brown
First Guard - Herman Campbell
Second Guard - Robert Brittian
First Peasant - T. T. Jones
Second Peasant - C. F. Monk

Professor Erwin is in charge of dramatics at Davidson and the entire performance was under his supervision and direction.

HAMPDEN-SIDNEY TIGERS (Continued from page 1)

Atkins (3) Capt. - RF - Laird (16) Capt.
Wooten (14) - LF - Huie (4)
Aynes (0) - C - Wilson (4)
Squires (4) - RG - Anderson (10)
Strader (1) - Hewlette (4)

Substitutions: Hampden-Sidney, Roberts for Atkins, Atkins for Roberts, Roberts for Strader. Davidson, Harrison for Huie, Huie for Harrison, Hudgins for Wilson, Wilson for Hudgins. Referee: Rawson (Georgia.)

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5050
Residence, 1937-5.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
12 South Tryon Street
Office 3171 Res. 3419-W
Over Garibaldi & Bruns
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DR. C. F. SMITHSON
DENTIST
Charlotte, N.C.

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
Charlotte, N.C.

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
The Best Places to Eat
CHARLOTTE

SNAG! often difficult to express, are always gratefully received: and their omission may mar an otherwise happy day. Discriminating folks welcome our congratulation cards, because they are attractively designed and tactfully worded for every occasion when congratulations are in order.

CARDS for every purpose
COMMERCIAL Printers and Stationers
419 East Avenue
Charlotte, N. C.

PHONE 129

Fresh Home Made Candies! For the Holiday Season
We give prompt attention to all orders and wish to solicit your patronage
PIEDMONT CANDY KITCHEN
18 N. TRYON ST.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies
Mooresville, N. C.