THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1926

Capt. Weems—“Get a move on, old man.”
Sims—“Can’t hurry, there’s something in my shoe that hurts.”
Capt.—“What is it?”
Sims—“My foot.”

When better jars are built, Ford will build them.

McCravey—“What tense would that be?”
Westbrook—“Pretense.”

What could be more tasty than the delightful concoctions of color, style, and tailoring that BRAEBURN originates for college men?
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Tailored At Rochester

Doing business without advertising is like winking at a girl in the dark—you know what you're doing, but nobody else
does.

Mr. R. A. Dunn, of Charlotte, is president of the Commercial National Bank, one of the largest banking houses in
the city, and is very prominently engaged in business circles. He is an Elder in the First Presbyterian Church and
is also chairman of the Finance Committee on the Executive Committee of the College. Although not a Davidson man, he
is one of the college’s best friends and a very loyal supporter of D. C. His reputation in Charlotte is
that of a man who has had a great influence on young men and is a man in big business
who has put first things first. That's right—6:15’s the hour.

There is some discussion at present as to the probability of holding a special service on some Sunday which will
be designated as Dad’s Day. If enough interest is shown, this service will be held early in the coming year.
Think it over.

Dr. Ben Lacy will be here for a series of services, beginning on November 7th, and continuing through November 30th.
Every effort ought to be made to attend these meetings, which are the culmination of the fall work of the
“Y.” In addition to having Dr. Lacy here, an effort is being made to secure a quartet from Columbia Theological
Seminary to help with the meetings. All possible preparations are underway to make the meetings a success. Are YOU going
to do your part by attending?

The “Y” officers are proud to announce the completion of the new “Y” room. Quite a few games such as
chess, checkers, yalo, etc. have been ordered and will be available shortly. Everything has been done to make this room
as attractive as possible. In this connection, the Y. M. C. A. would like to ask each man in the
Student Body this question—Have you enjoyed the “Y” room, the Victrola, the magazines? If you have, will you not enable
someone else to enjoy these things by giving a new record, a magazine, at any time that will be convenient
for you? The “Y” will greatly appreciate any gifts received at any time.

The A. will be the sponsor for November 13th, Homecoming Day, and the Carolina game date. All those who expect
to have girls and want the “Y” to secure rooms for them should let the “Y” know at once.

The Fellowship of Prayer—a wonderful league that joins Christians of all lands. Do we have a voice in this union
by virtue of being participants in a close walk with God?

The “Y” plans to begin a series of exhibits of the various phases of college life, such as the Christian
Endeavor Training Class, Boys’ Work, etc., and there will be a table containing information and literature about different groups each
week in the “Y” offices. Information will be given about the various seminaries of the country as an aid to
those who are undecided as to which school to enter.

IRON HORSE TAKES (Continued from page 1)

What is that combined sunset-rainbow blur asserting itself so vociferously? The Honorable Stud Grey, sole owner of his own name
and also of this resplendent and colorful sweater, advances a hypothesis to the effect that D. O. W., Jr., will
make the voyage via the clipper Harley-Davidson. A raw seaman attracts attention with his stock of ribbons and swagger sticks.
A few decideto swagger. Gaze aft. Arrayed on the starboard is an unbroken file of Africano visages, each peering from
its individual porthole. Warren Ogden, Tommy Jones, et cetera (“and others”—we want this all English, Ferdinand, so your ignorance won't
deprive you of a literary and geographical gem) are so shaken with fear they hold end. Avast ye lubbers!’ We've
sprung a leak. No common leak, me lads. A crimson tide, jetting from the nose of Assistant Sixth Yeoman Helm,
reveals to the environment one hapless soul’s resignation to seasickness. The pennants of clan Scott issue, in plain conventional banners
on occasions, the Plebs have formed such an attachment for their prescribed headgears that they refuse to doff them. While
anchored at quarantine an apprentice seaman passes out admission tickets for the renowned Winegar Works dance. Strenuous stretches of vocal
seamanship are unavailing in hastening the departure. A passing boat signals. At 2:30 the Winston-Salem reaches Charlotte Harbor. The festive
flutter and mutter in the breeze. Sailors hasten shoreward in gasoline and electric launches. Fed, entertained, tired (my, they are
weary, Ferdy), the cargo of sam salts is loaded at 11:15 p.m. for the return voyage. Taps are sounded and
soon the good ship weighs anchor. She strikes the wrong channel but reverses and proceeds again. Able Seaman Dickinson feverishly
searches for some missing treasure. He finds it and recedes to the smoking room; there to continue his Art Studies.
His aesthetic feeling for art attracts a sympathetic audience. Butler, gentleman sheik, smiles indulgently at the amateur caprices of True
Romance beaus. A clique of novices advance from the Adeline stage of ecstasy and shout, “Wildcats, Wildcats!” The excursion terminates
in Port Davidson at exactly 12 o'clock, judged by railroad chronometrics. Also according to faculty time. A memorable voyage has
been completed, Ferdy, old man. The dusky cabin boys ride on rejoicing.

Members of Golf Team Will be Selected Soon
Varsity Men to be Chosen by Elimination Tournament

The fall tournament, to decide which players shall compose the 1926 golf team, is now well under way. The final
match of the first flight will be played Saturday, if the weather is favorable. As the best players have been
placed in this flight, the result of this match will probably determine the team. Of the berths, Steve McGill, the
only returning veteran, will occupy one, while the other five will probably be contested between Billy Wolf, Inglis Love, Arthur
Mills, Boyce Martin, J. M. White, Ben Wilson, and Bob Menzies. The other flights will be run off as soon
after this as possible. There will be prizes for the winners in each flight. Matches with Statesville, Salisbury, and Concord
have already been scheduled, and it is hoped that matches will also be arranged with Gastonia, Winston-Salem, and Charlotte. Last
year the team made a fine record, and this year it is generally agreed that the team is even better.
To help those playing golf and to save inconveniences, a new system of caddying is soon to be installed here.
A regular caddy master is to be chosen to have charge of the caddies, control them, and send them out
in turn. This is expected to result in much better service than has hitherto been available. Ground rules for the
Davidson course have been revised and several hundred copies have been printed. A copy is available to each player in
order that he may familiarize himself with the rules. These copies may be obtained either in 214 West or 29
Rumple.

Officer (to girl whose car is stranded in river)—“What’s all the commotion here?”
Girl—“Just started across the bridge.”
Officer—“Well?”
Girl—“There wasn’t any bridge.”

Dentist—“Pardon me, but I guess I'll have to drill a little.”
Ritchie—“Can't I have my tooth pulled without a rehearsal?”

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

U-DRIVE-IT CO.
203 So. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N.C.

This Hotel is Yours no matter how large or how small. Regular board---reasonable---and the best your money can buy. Music
in the evenings.
MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
DAVIDSON, N.C.

CREDENZA, $300.00
