THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1926

Biddle Quintet Gives Varied Program on Monday Evening

Last Monday night, the Biddle Quartet from Johnson C. Smith University gave a delightful program of song and harmony in Shearer Hall. The selections were varied, ranging from extremely classical pieces to old-time negro spirituals. In a number of selections, the accompanist joined the singers, increasing their number to a quintet. Only a handful of students, hardly 20, were present at the performance, but these applauded lustily, and the singers were at their best as a result.

As the opening number, the quartet sang “A Lullabye—A Little Bunch of Honey,” followed by “The Venetian Love Song.” J. F. Jones, baritone, then sang “The Big Brown Blur” and “Always” as an encore. This number was by far the best of the evening as a solo. The quartet, augmented to a quintet twice by the pianist, sang “Old Black Joe” with excellent harmony, “Kentucky Babe,” “Live Humble,” “Bill of Fare,” and a number of encores. G. L. Allen gave three piano solos, two of them being encores. J. S. Lucas, possessing a tenor voice of surprising beauty, sang “Lou of the Desert” and “By the Walls of Miniatouka” as an encore. The final number was the “Sextette from Lucia” by the entire quartet.

The quartet was composed of the following men: George McKeithan, bass; J. F. Jones, baritone; A. H. Prinal, lead; and J. S. Lucas, tenor. G. S. Allen was the accompanist. All are experienced singers. This was the second appearance of the Biddle songsters at Davidson in as many years. Last year they were greeted by a large audience and received with great enthusiasm. Due to the fact that many of the students had heard them at that time, and to lack of advertisement, their reception was not so enthusiastic this year.

Deputation Visits Charlotte Church

There was no regular meeting of the Christian Endeavor Training Class on Sunday, but a deputation was sent to the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, where it was well received. This is the third deputation sent out by the class this year, and it is planned to send several more during the last weeks of school. Mooresville, Statesville, and other nearby towns will be visited.

The program was given in the form of a triangular meeting. The chairs were arranged in the shape of a triangle, and the same idea was carried out in the program. The meeting was opened with three prayers, with Bill Covington, Don Stewart, and Mallory Calhoun participating. A three-headed topic was discussed by three men. Jeff Garrison spoke on “Prayer,” Bob Kell on “Faith,” and Bob Covington on “Works.” A quartet composed of Stewart, Calhoun, Garrison, and Lowrance sang three songs. The meeting was quite a success, and the leaders of the class state that there is a fine spirit of cooperation, and plans are already being formulated for next year.

SMITH BRINGS BRILLIANT RECORD

(Continued from page 1)

Smith has been active not only in journalistic work but in other literary lines as well, contributing to the Davidson College Magazine in all of its issues, the annual publication Quips and Cranks, and having one of his poems given honorable mention in the annual anthology publication of the best work done by undergraduates during the year. He held the presidency of the Eumenean Literary Society. He was also editor of Sanity Rare, published annually by the Junior class for Junior Week. He also aided the present Junior class editors in publishing the current issue of this humorous magazine. He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity.

Smith was also president of the Dramatic Club here during the past year and has written several plays that have been presented by this organization. He has also been active in this work since his freshman year.

Baker and Pinkney Will Attend Student Meeting

Many Noted Educators Will Speak — College Social Problems to be Discussed

On Thursday and Friday of this week, April 23 and 24, the Southern Federation of College Students will meet in annual convention at Washington and Lee University. Davidson will be represented by Tom Baker and J. F. Pinkney, outgoing and incoming presidents of the Davidson student body, respectively. An extensive program has been planned which takes in every minute of the two days of the convention. The opening session will begin Thursday morning at 9:30 a.m. Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president of W. & L., will deliver the address of welcome, and after the response by the president of the federation, the business of‘The convention will be disposed of. The morning session will be concluded with three speeches by student representatives on subjects concerning student officers and student government. Jim Pinkney, as the Davidson representative, will speak on “The Scope and Interpretation of the Honor System.” The afternoon session will be taken up with discussion of college athletic problems by student representatives, followed by an address on “Scholarship and Extracurricular Activities,” by Dr. H. D. Campbell, dean of Washington and Lee University. At 5:30 p.m. the delegates will be taken on a trip to Natural Bridge, after which they will be entertained at a banquet.

On the second day social problems will be discussed, especially those presented by fraternities and dances. The final Friday afternoon will include open forum discussion, election of officers, and the choice of the next meeting place. The convention will be brought to a grand close with an informal dance Friday night.

College Editors Meet at Guilford

The tenth semi-annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will be held at Guilford College, starting April 29, and continuing for three days to May 1. At this time representatives of the leading college newspapers, magazines, and annuals in North Carolina will gather to discuss the more important problems facing the collegiate journalists at this time. The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, since its organization some years ago, has developed into one of the leading state press associations in Southern collegiate circles. Conventions are held at various colleges which are members of the association, and at each convention a large representation from each of the member-colleges is present. The last convention, held during the early part of last November, was held at the University of North Carolina, and at that time some 50-odd delegates were registered. Morning and afternoon sessions were held during each of the three days of the sessions, in addition to the various forum discussions and sessions on group conferences. The social entertainments of the semi-annual conferences are always a special feature. Both the girls and boys, representing the various college papers, join together to enjoy a round of entertainment that adds life and zest to all of the conventions.

Plans for the meet at Guilford are practically complete, and everything points to one of the finest conventions in the association’s history. A recent announcement from the president of the association gave some advance dope on the convention, and also urged the early registration of delegates. The leading officers of the association at the present time are E. G. Moore, N. C. State, president; Ernest Milton, Davidson, vice-president; and Miss Dixie Hines, G. C. W., secretary and treasurer. New officers will be elected at the Guilford conference, and at that time the annual vote for the best college publication will also be taken.

Trenton, Tenn., has the honor of claiming to be the home of this worthy son, and he has been active there during the summer months in the publication of its paper. After receiving his diploma in June, Smith will probably enter the journalistic world in Gastonia, where he worked one summer as a reporter on the Gastonia Daily Gazette.

Unusual Excellence Never happens by Chance (ESPECIALLY THREE TIMES IN A ROW)

The fact that we have again been awarded the contract for the handsome 600-page yearbook of the United States Military Academy evidences an organization and service that can work equally well. Our personnel are all college men who know and appreciate your particular ideas and problems. We will appreciate an opportunity to work with you.

A $25,000 Government contract---a solid carload shipment of handsome books---placed with this company in the face of severe Northern competition.

QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

When it’s a rainy night—and with three crafty bridge players your luck is running wild—have a Camel! The Camels represent the utmost in cigarette quality. The choicest of Turkish and Domestic tobaccos are blended into Camels by master blenders and the finest of French cigarette paper is made especially for them. Into this one brand is concentrated all of the knowledge, all of the skill of the world’s largest organization of expert tobacco men.

© 1926

WHEN the dark skies are pouring rain outside. And fickle fate deals you hands at bridge that you play with consummate skill—have a Camel! For Camel is the silent partner that helps every deserving player win his game. Camels never hurt or tire the taste, never leave a trace of cigaretty after-taste. Regardless of the gold you spend, you'll never get choicer tobaccos than those rolled into Camels. So this evening as you ply your unerring skill, evoke then the mellowest fragrance that ever came from a cigarette. Have a Camel! Our highest wish, if you do not yet know Camel quality, is that you try them. We invite you to compare Camels with any cigarette made at any price.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company