THE DAVIDSONIAN. OCTOBER 21, 1926

PLAYING THE GAME
By W. L. Lingle

Davidson Wins State Title

By winning the State College go, the Davidson Wildcats continued to keep their slate clean in the 1926 drive for
the state championship. Five victories over mediocre teams have been chalked up and with the Wake Forest clash, the Cats
will start on a round of the five hardest games ever allotted to a Davidson team in as many weeks.
The clash with the Deacons looms largest at the present time. As far as we can make it out, the
result will depend largely upon the weather conditions. The boys from Wake Forest have built their offensive around aerial attacks
with Riley and Rackley as the highlights. A wet day will greatly diminish or totally destroy its effectiveness. Good passing
depends upon speed and very few men can develop any extraordinary amount of speed with soggy real estate clinging to
their cleats. In such a case, Davidson should win by a small margin. If Jupe Pluvius restrains himself, however, there
will be high times down on Wearn Field Saturday.

Lynchburg is out to make the V. M. I. tilt the greatest game of the season. McConnell and Hampton did
the best work for the Kittens in the line. Hampton, a fast giant end, played a spectacular game. The V.
M. I. cadets will attend en masse. The Young Men’s Business Club is sponsoring the clash and from advance indications,
they will fill the new Municipal Stadium to overflowing. Railroad rates to the Hill City have been reduced in order
to encourage a larger attendance from this vicinity. Davidson should have a good delegation there to help the boys win
that game.

As the major Big Five games approach, there is much talk as to who will win the state title. Our
friends in Charlotte have rather prematurely picked the Deacons to come out on top and are sticking to their conclusion.
As far as the writer can see, Wake Forest is on the slide, while Duke and Carolina are steadily coming
to the front. Duke will hardly take the championship after being trounced by the University boys last Saturday. Carolina, however,
looms ahead. Davidson has about the same chance of winning from Carolina as she did last year. If the quarterbacks
can keep their heads clear and a few breaks come our way, the Cats will come out on top in
that contest, but otherwise, the chances are little better than they were during the previous season. If Davidson drops that
battle, Carolina will take the title again and leave Davidson, Duke, and Wake Forest to fight it out among themselves
for the next three places. State can hope for nothing better than the cellar position.

In Hampton, Coach Monk Mattox has uncovered an end of rare promise. Whenever you see an end get boxed in
and then turn and catch the man who has circled him before he has gone ten yards, you may know
that he is a flankman of unusual ability. Hampton did that just twice in the Furman tilt Saturday. The new
boys made a noble stand that day and deserved to win. Tomorrow they meet a team from the Blue Ridge
School for Boys at Hendersonville. Last Saturday, this bunch beat Christ School 52-0 and showed the earmarks of becoming the
best prep team in the state. The Yearlings will have a stiff fight on their hands.

The cross-country candidates, headed by Penn, are working out daily in preparation for their coming meets. Perhaps some good distance
men for the track team will be brought to light. The best any Davidson man has ever done in the
mile run is thirty seconds slower than the record established by Nurmi a few years ago. Fricker clipped off the
distance in four minutes and forty-one seconds back in 1921 to establish the Davidson record. That time has not been
beaten.

Davidson Wildkittens Win From Furman

Jim Hammett Chosen

Fresh in Opening Game By Close Score

Matthews Scores the Winning Touchdown on Short Gain

HAMPTON PLAYS WELL

Furman Rushes Over Score in First Moments of Play But Loses Lead

Halverstadt defeated Johnston for the championship in the tennis tournament which has just been completed in the Freshman class. Last
Saturday, in a steady drizzling rain, the Davidson Wildkittens defeated the Furman Freshmen, 7 to 6, in a game which
was very interesting even though it was played in the rain. Fighting gamely to overcome the lines of football and
basketball, and the results of this tournament point also to success on the courts. The main purpose in running off
this tournament was to get something

The line-up was as follows:

Furman. Position. Davidson.
Smith, P. ------ LE ------ Hampton
Wade ------ LG ------ Hunt
Bull ------ C ------ DeAtmon
Engleburg ------ RG ------ DeCamp
Osten ------ RT ------ Peterson
Smith ------ RE ------ Matthews
Bannette ------ QB ------ Goodman
Perring, F. ------ WB ------ Brehard

Score: Furman 6-0 0 0-6
Davidson 0 7 0 0-7

Linesman, Brice (Auburn).

Cats Have Clashed With Deacons Often

Football teams of Wake Forest and Davidson College, who meet in Charlotte next Saturday afternoon for their annual football encounter,
have participated in 14 contests between these two institutions, the recordof a line on the handicap of a Furman touchdown
in the first few minutes of play, the Kittens, by blocking punts and recovering fumbles, succeeded not only in scoring
the winning point, but twice took the ball to Furman’s one-yard line; and three times were close enough to unsuccessfully
try drop-kicks. Frequent fumbles, due to the rain, seemed to increase the interest of the student body, without preventing remarkable
playing by several of the players. Cass and Bonnette did fine work for Furman in the backfield, while Wade featured
in the line. Hunt, blocked punts, stopped every run around his end, and dropped back part of the time to
punt, two of them going for 55 and 60 yards. On two plays he punted and made his own tackle.
McConnell, right tackle, and Hunt, left guard, were immovable on the defense and deadly on the offense. The entire line
held unusually well. The average weight is about 175 pounds. The backfield was good, Captain Hammett running the team and
playing well. Christian made a pretty run during which he stiff-armed three players and was downed by the safety man
10 yards from Furman’s goal line. Nunan ran pretty interference and intercepted a forward pass. Matthews scored the touchdown and
was the outstanding ground-gainer for the Wildkittens. Next Friday, the Kittens play Blue Ridge. Officials—Referee: Kirkpatrick (N. C. State); umpire:
Crews (W. & L.); head linesman: Smith (Davidson).

Jim Hammett, of Anderson, S.C., was elected captain of the Freshman football team at a meeting of the squad last
Friday, the day before the Davidson-Furman Fresh game. Hammett plays quarterback on the Yearling team. His prep-school experience was obtained
in Anderson High School, where he performed in the role of triple-threat man, being proficient in running with the ball,
in passing, and in drop-kicking. He handled his team well in the opening clash of the season, leading the Wildkittens
to a well-earned victory over the Furman first-year men.

A few years ago Lawrence Orr Hammett, brother of James, was an outstanding player on Davidson teams, finally topping a
notable career at tackle by being named as captain of the Wildcats for the season of 1920. In the Davidsonian
of October 8, 1920, may be found the following: “Lawrence Orr Hammett, captain of this year’s football team, and star
tackle, is a player of rare ability and has been a mainstay of the team for the past three years.
His work in the line has been a feature of every game, and his leadership has been an inspiration to
his teammates.”

The Fresh have good prospects along being available since 1908. In that time the Wildcats have won 10 of the
frays, Wake Forest has won two, and a couple of the engagements have resulted in ties. At the beginning of
football encounters between the Baptists and Presbyterians, the latter had a decided advantage, and maintained it up until a few
years ago, when the Demon Deacons began coming into prominence and had to be seriously reckoned with by all opponents.
Until 1921 the Wildcats had won all of the contests, but have never been able to wrestle a victory from
Wake Forest since that time, the Demon Deacons winning two of the last four tilts, with the remaining two in
deadlocks. In the 18 years since the two institutions began their football relationship, Davidson scored 259 points to Wake Forest’s
67. Ten of the games have been waged in Charlotte, two have been staged at Davidson, one has been participated
in at Greensboro, and the place of the fourteenth encounter is unknown. The complete record follows:

1908—W. F. 4 Dav. 31; at Davidson.
1909—No game.
1910—W. F. 0 Dav. 32; at Charlotte.
1911—W. F. 0 Dav. 9; Unknown.
1912—W. F. 7 Dav. 13; at Charlotte.
1913—W. F. 0 Dav. 6; at Charlotte.
1914—W. F. 6 Dav. 7; at Charlotte.
1915—W. F. 7 Dav. 21; at Charlotte.

In closing, let us mention the fact that Hampden-Sidney is to be reckoned with on the sixth of November and
that they are bringing a powerful team against the Wildcats. The Tigers held Virginia to a scoreless tie, scored on
the strong V. P. I. team, and licked Lynchburg College 24-0 last Saturday. They may seem easy, but remember that
6-6 tie last season in Charlotte when hardly a fourth of the student body were present.

THREE INJURED PLAYERS (Continued from page 1) support in backing up the line being outstanding. With the return of Lincoln
and Leftwich, Bohannon will probably be shifted back to end to strengthen that position, which has become naturally weak through
lack of reserve material. Lincoln, who has made his first bid for fame this year, has suffered other injuries during
the year, in the form of a broken nose and a sprained ankle.

Summing the thing up in a few words—they’re the clothes you want at a price you are willing to pay!
MELLON’S Smart Stuffed Clothes For College Men Tailored At Rochester $35 to $50, CHARLOTTE, N.C.
