THEDA MD sonian Pe ee rcrerrs sone ~ . . ~ FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON | Vol. XIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE,
DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 25, 1926

Davidson to Meet Duke in Final Game of Season

The Davidsonian Will Sponsor Program by Players of Queens College Tuesday

Three One-Act Plays to be Given by SECOND APPEARANCE

“Chrysanthemums,” “Poor Me,” and “Maid of France” Presented—Admission Fifty Cents

“The Queen Players” will appear in Davidson next Tuesday night with a program of three one-act plays, for the benefit
and pleasure of all the Davidson students. The program is being presented under the auspices of the “Davidsonian.” It will
begin promptly at 8:00 p.m., in Shearer Hall.

Under the directorship of Miss Ethel King, the club will present a varied program of three one-act plays instead of
the single play of greater length which was given last year. The first of the group, “Chrysanthemums,” is a charming
Japanese romance, with an oriental setting. The next is a laughable comedy, “Poor Me,” in which several of the new
members of the Dramatic club will be introduced. The last of the presentations will be the “Maid of France.” The
scene of this one-act play is in the square of a French town before the statue of Jeanne d’Arc, on
Christmas Eve, during the World War.

All of these plays have been presented in Charlotte several weeks ago with remarkable success. There will be a larger
troop of players on the program this year than the group which presented the delightful “Mr. Bob” last year. Among
those who have visited the campus before as members of the Dramatic club are Misses Dolly Moore, Anne Fays- (Continued
on page 8)

R.O.T.C. Battalion to be Inspected and Reviewed

Colonel Powell, of Fourth Corps Area, Makes Complete Inspection of Military Unit

On his regular inspection tour, Col. Frank W. Rowell, officer in charge of R.O.T.C. affairs in the Fourth Corps Area,
inspected the Davidson battalion Wednesday afternoon. Colonel Rowell arrived Wednesday and, leaving on Thursday, he was unable to inspect the
class work. The inspection is made every year by this officer and it was a result of his inspection that
entitled the Davidson organization to the official inspection by the War Department last year which led to the battalion being
given distinguished rating.

During the past two years, military affairs at Davidson have been brought to a higher plane of efficiency than ever
before. Much credit is due Captain Weems and his staff of officers who have been ever eager to raise the
standard of the battalion. They have worked to bring about better discipline, greater proficiency, and a neater appearance among the
individual members and the organization as a whole. The work of Major Sims, of the battalion, and his staff, together
with the company commanders, has been gratifying both to Captain Weems and his associates. Every effort was made to have
a neat appearance before the presentation to Colonel Rowell, and all cadet officers put forth their best efforts for the
occasion.

Colonel Rowell has always shown great interest in Davidson in affairs other than military. He has expressed his good feeling
toward Davidson and the instructors and it is thought that he was responsible, largely, for the recognition last year.

Noted Journalist Reviews Magazine

At the request of the staff of editors of The Chameleon, one of our Southern men of letters, distinguished in
his own field of endeavor and interested in college literary work, consented to review the November issue of The Chameleon,
his critical comment to appear in The Davidsonian. This gentleman has evidenced interest in the Davidson College magazine of the
past and is well acquainted with its vicissitudes. The review below has just been received from him. It is his
wish that his name not be made public.

Flaunting a gaily flamboyant jacket, befitting its name and the season, The Chameleon made last week its first appearance for
the year. In its format—all the details of make-up and arrangement of material—the newly christened magazine undoubtedly surpasses any issue
during the previous forty-one years of its history. It looks good. And looks, after all, play possibly the largest part
in the impression produced by a magazine.

As to content, the keynote is struck in the Editor's notes under the caption, “Cham’s Colors.” The purpose is to
produce a magazine which is strictly the work of Davidson College students—amateurish, if you please, but possessing a distinctively literary
tone. The publication should avoid on the one hand the Scylla of heaviness, and on the other the Charybdis of
flippancy; it should imitate neither the Atlantic Monthly nor the American Mercury. In fact, the editor wishes to escape imitativeness
altogether and to produce a magazine which will reflect the thought and opinion of students of Davidson College. This is
an excellent ideal, which (Continued on page 2)

Football Schedule Nearly Completed

Prof. W. W. Woods, director of athletics at Davidson, has been working for some time arranging the 1927 football schedule.
As yet, one date is open and several others are pending. On the schedule it is noticeable that three teams
on the 1926 football schedule do not appear on next year’s schedule. These are P. C., Guilford, and Hampden-Sidney. Two
of these dates have already been taken by other teams. U. of Florida will replace P. C. and Citadel takes
Guilford’s place. The trip to Gainesville, Fla. to play the U. of Florida will doubtless be the longest trip the
football team has ever taken.

Only three games of the nine have definitely been arranged to be played at Davidson. These are the Elon, V.
M. I., and Duke games. The State game is tentative, but will likely be played at Greensboro. The V. M.
I. and Duke games will likely be the only large games played on Richardson Field. Several of the games are
pending, hence the place of the engagements have not as yet been arranged for. The tentative schedule is:

Sept. 17—Open.
Sept. 24—Citadel (Place undecided).
Oct. 1—Univ. of Florida, at Gainesville, Florida.
Oct. 8—Wofford (Place undecided).
Oct. 15—Elon at Davidson.
Oct. 22—Wake Forest (Place undecided).
Oct. 29—V. M. I., at Davidson.
Nov. 5—State (Place undecided).
Nov. 12—U. of N. C. (Pending).
Nov. 25—Duke at Davidson.

Here is William Lee Younger, the wisest of them all, their “gloomy” schedule in recent years with a record of
se are off to Mr. “Monk” Younger. Athletic Authoritiesall, against the Blue Devils of Durham in quest of the state
title. Whatever part the Wildcats may claim as their share of the glory of this year will be in large
measure due to the mentor who has successfully piloted them through the mill of the hardest season. Today he leads
his charges with seven victories and two defeats. Our hats off to him.

Members of Faculty Opposed to Post-Season Game

State Glee Clubs Meet December 2nd

The Davidson College Glee Club will take part in the state meet of the North Carolina Glee Clubs, which will
be held in Durham the second week in December. All the Glee Clubs in the state, those of Carolina, Duke,
State, Wake Forest, Davidson, Elon, and Guilford, will be represented. Carolina had the Champion Glee Club last year, and this
brought much prestige to the school. The winning club this year will be given a trip to New York to
try in the National contest. The chance to win this trip will make the different clubs work even harder, and
the competition for first place will be very keen. Each club will sing their college song, one song selected by
the officers of the State organization, and also one song of their own selection.

This organization came into existence only three years ago, and since that time has done much to foster competition between
the Glee Clubs of the state and of the country. There are organizations of this kind in most of the
states of the country, and these state organizations are all banded together under a large national head. The Davidson Glee
Club is formulating plans for its yearly visits to neighboring towns. This tour will not be made until after the
state and national contests have been held, and the local club will be in fine shape by this time. The
route of this tour has not been announced definitely yet, but some engagements have been arranged.

Wake Forest Favors Clash for Championship

MONK YOUNGER SILENT

Glee Clubs of Greensboro Promoters Post $5,000 Guarantee to Insure Game if Played There

The question of a post-season game between the Wildcats and the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest was brought into the
open by a telegram received by Prof. W. Wood from Manager Carrol, of Wake Forest, Monday morning. Up until this
step, the whole affair has been between the sporting writers of the leading dailies of the state. When such a
definite step was taken, the authorities at Davidson were equally definite in their stand against such an encounter.

“I had not thought seriously of the matter,” said Professor Wood when interviewed, “until I received Mr. Carrol's telegram this
morning. The whole idea is contrary to the athletic policy of the college. I have referred the matter to the
faculty as a whole, feeling that their opinion should have weight under such circumstances. Dr. Sentelle tells me that every
man that he interviewed was against such a step, and that he felt confident that if the faculty took any
action, it would be unanimous against a post-season game.”

“Yes,” he went on to say, “I did receive a phone call from the Sports editor of the Greensboro News,
stating that he had a certified check for $5,000 to be divided equally between the two teams if the game
is played in Greensboro. I would like to add that I (Continued on page 2)

Clash Today Will Have Definite Bearing Upon Championship of State

Duke Homecoming Will Feature Events of Day

STUDENTS TO ATTEND

Victory for Davidson Will Throw Title Into Tie if Wake Forest Wins

Monk Younger’s “Wildcats extraordinary” will meet their most formidable opponents, the Duke Blue Devils, today in Durham. Formidable is the
correct word to use in referring to these Blue Devils since they have not only a fast, hard-driving backfield, but
a line that averages around 178 pounds. And to top it all, they are well-coached and have retained a fine
fighting spirit throughout the whole season. The Wildcats have a blood relation with the Blue Devils. Mr. Warren Deuteronomy Tilson,
line coach for the Duke eleven, is none other than the brother of our own Tex Tilson.

The fact that Duke has one of the strongest teams in the state cannot be denied. In their game with
N. C. State, the Blue Devils made 17 first downs to State’s seven. These downs were made right through the
line, which goes to prove that Duke has seven men in the front rank who are capable of opening up
holes for their backs to plough through. This performance of the Devils against State was backed up by them when
they succeeded in making 15 first downs against the strong Wake Forest eleven. In the game with Duke, the Deacons
made only five first downs. But (Continued on page 2)

State Revenue Council Organized at Guilford

Henry Powell Elected Vice-President and Acting President—Plans for Future Made

A great step has been taken in the field of forensic activities by a meeting recently called by Professor Perisho,
of Guilford College, at the request of many colleges in the state of North Carolina. This request was made in
order that plans for a North Carolina Forensic Association might be discussed. Representatives from all the colleges in the state
except three met at Guilford College on November 20th to plan ways and means for such an organization. Mr. Henry
T. Powell represented Davidson at this meeting.

During the proceedings of the meeting, it was decided that a committee be appointed to draw up a constitution. This
was done, and an adequate constitution was presented to the assembled members. This constitution will be put into effect when
finally accepted by the various schools concerned. All have thus far expressed themselves as heartily in favor of such an
organization save Carolina, whose representative was ill and unable to attend.

Officers were elected at this initial meeting. Mr. Henry Powell was chosen vice-president and acting president; Prof. C. C. Cunningham,
professor of English at State College, was elected secretary and treasurer. The purpose of this organization is to foster debates
and orations, and to arrange contests annually in this field. Its purpose is laudable and it is hoped that the
colleges throughout the state will lend their support and co-operation. This organization will hold regular meetings and will endeavor to
place debating (Continued on page 2)
