aA > x THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1926 - B

Building reach averages for the first six months are maintained during the balance of the year. The value of buildings in the United States will amount to $7,500,000,000 if the trend continues.

[ALUMNI NEWS]

Professional Notices

The British mint has manufactured about $8,000,000 in coins for the Soviet government.

Alumni Secretary Will Form New Associations
Milton to Form Chapters in Fayetteville and Raeford

The alumni secretary has his plans almost complete for a trip through eastern North Carolina, which is for the purpose of organizing alumni associations in several places where associations look promising and are needed. It is definitely certain that associations will be organized in Raeford and Fayetteville on the nights of December 1st and 2nd, respectively. Letters have been written to Wilmington with reference to organizing an association there on December 3rd. In the same week, the secretary plans an organization at Concord on Monday night, and one at Davidson on Tuesday night. This makes a total of five organizations in one week. Enthusiastic letters have been received from Raeford and Fayetteville, and it seems almost certain that strong associations will be organized there.

Last Saturday, a letter was mailed out to all Davidson College alumni, merely setting forth the success of Homecoming Day. That day was certainly one of the greatest and in many ways the greatest of all days for Davidson, and hundreds of alumni were present. Another letter will go out the latter part of the week from Dr. J. C. Rowan, president of the Alumni Association, containing a three-month report of the alumni secretary’s work.

ALL NEXT WEEK
Girls From Queens Lead — Vesper Service Sunday
Deputation of Ten Girls Conduct “Y” Vespers Sunday

Vesper service of the Y. M. C. A. was conducted by ten Y. W. C. A. girls from Queens College last Sunday night. Under the leadership of Miss Georgia Shrum, a program of Scripture readings, musical numbers, and inspirational talks was presented to a well-attended meeting in Shearer Hall. Following the Scripture reading, Miss Laura McNair took charge of the meeting and called on other members of the group. She stated that if

Personal

Each day letters come to the office of the alumni secretary containing the names and addresses of Davidson alumni. These addresses are always welcome to the office because this affords a closer relation of the alumni through the alumni office. The following is a list of addresses that have not this year been published:

Rev. W. T. Baker, ’23, Portsmouth, Va.
Rev. P. H. Biddle, ’23, Cuba, Ala.
Rev. R. W. Childress, ’26, Willis, Va.
Rev. F. L. Fraser, ’23, Mt. Vernon, Ga.
Rev. W. A. Gamble, ’23, Pinetops, N. C.
Rev. A. V. Gibson, ’23, Garland, N. C.
Rev. M. B. Heizer, ’21, Rawlings, Va.
Rev. J. S. Johnson, ’22, Rush Run, W. Va.
Rev. D. P. McGeachy, Jr., ’22, Richmond, Va.
Rev. G. W. Mauze, ’23, W. Huntington, Va.
Rev. P. D. Miller, ’22, Richmond, Va.
Rev. T. H. Patterson, ’22, Monterey, Va.
Rev. J. C. Wool, ’22, Stuarts Draft, Va.
Dr. William Sloan, 1846, Garland, N. C.
Angus Cromartie, Sr., 1807, Garland, N. C.
Angus Cromartie, Jr., ’27, Garland, N. C.
Calan T. Lamb, Jr., ’13, Garland, N. C.
Rev. E. H. Hamilton, Suchoufu, China.
P. C. Henderson, ’25, Chester, N. C.
J. W. Baldwin, ’23, Maxton, N. C.
W. A. Patterson, ’25, Spring Hope, N. C.
A. L. Simpson, ’25, Washington, D.C.
E. T. Pullen, ’26, Burgaw, N. C.
W. A. Murray, ex-’26, Charlotte, N. C.
C. C. McMillan, ’25, Fayetteville, N. C.
H. M. Wells, ’25, Godwin, N. C.
G. R. Dupuy, ’24, Red Springs, N. C.
A. B. Williford, ’26, Boone, N. C.
L. E. Calhoun, ’25, N. Wilkesboro, N. C.
Dr. C. B. Sanders, City Hospital, Louisville, Ky.
R. F. Davidson, ’22, Oxford Univ., Oxford, England.

National Leader Visits Chapters of Fraternity
J. M. Appleby, President of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Visits Schools

J. M. Appleby, '26, national president of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemical fraternity, visited practically all of the Southern chapters during the past week.One would walk with Christ; he must change his attitude toward all things. Not only through the Gospels but also through those having fellowship with Jesus may we learn of Him. After reading about Zaccheus making right his wrongs, Miss Virginia Carter told of a negro who led a miserable life with a show, who, when converted, was developed into a great missionary. Miss Becky Lynn favored with a solo and selections were given throughout the program by Miss Annie Parks Moore, Miss Noel Walker, and Miss Lynn. Miss Mary Erwin McCain spoke concerning men who have changed their vocations and cited Billy Sunday, who was a great baseball player, and who later decided to work for Christ. She stated that all through the ages, men have changed their work for Christ. “One needs to put spiritual values before personal accomplishments,” said Miss Kathleen Mahood. She told of how Mark Twain’s life had been a godless life because he turned from the teachings of his mother and the belief of his wife. Although his life was successful outwardly, his life was not a success, for he ended his life without Christ. Responding with different verses from the Bible, Misses Amanda Belle McCaskill and Carolyn Booth told how we may follow Jesus into a closer companionship.

This is without a doubt the greatest picture Fairbanks ever made, and the best picture to be shown in Charlotte before 1927.

This Hotel is Yours to use for all FEEDS AND BANQUETS no matter how large or how small, we can serve you. Regular board---reasonable---and the best your money can buy. Music in the evenings, MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL DAVIDSON, N. C.

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA The Finest Musical Instrument in the World Prices $95 to $1,000 All Models in Stock---Easy Terms NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C. CREDENZA, $300.00

Robert Lindsay Tate, an old alumnus of Davidson College, died at John Hopkins Hospital, in Baltimore, on March 5th, at the age of 52. Mr. Tate lived in Charlotte and was widely known as a builder and operator of cotton mills. He retired from active life some 12 years ago on account of ill health.

Hugh Wells, ’24, is superintendent of the schools at Godwin, N. C. Rev. C. M. Gibbs, ’15, recently accepted a call to the Presbyterian Church of Erwin, N. C. Prof. R. W. Morrison, '16, is an associate professor of education at the University of North Carolina. D. G. Worth, ’18, is attending the University of Florida, for post-graduate work. L. B. Claytor, '26, is principal of the Linden schools.

A typewriter having 1,160 keys covering forty alphabets has been devised.

The journey was made in order that the national president might see the condition and activities of the various chapters. Some of the schools visited were Georgia Tech, Alabama, Auburn, and Vanderbilt. Chapters are also located at the University of North Carolina and N. C. State, but these chapters will be visited later on in the year.

While a student at Davidson, Appleby was a prominent figure in scientific circles and at the national convention of Gamma Sigma Epsilon held here last spring he was elected president. The purpose of the fraternity is to foster scientific research with attention along chemical lines. The mother chapter of the fraternity is at Davidson, having been founded here in 1915. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, at present professor of chemistry at Davidson, was one of those instrumental in the origin of the body. This fraternity was the first honorary group to be founded at Davidson.

DRINK NuGrape A FLAVOR YOU CAN'T FORGET NuGrape Bottling Co. 417 Dowd Road Phone 5776 CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Mohammedan seamen make excellent sailors, according to ship masters, because their religion bars them from drinking.

Smart Styled Clothes For College Men Tailored At Rochester It requires months of roaming the odd places of Europe to assemble the multitude of original fabric ideas that have made Braeburn Smart Styled Clothes for College Men famous. Know Braeburn Clothes once and swear allegiance forever $35 to $50 MELLON’S CHARLOTTE, N. C.