FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 28, 1926

No. 7

Salem College is Host to College Journalists at Semi-Annual Meeting

Press Association Assembles During Next Three Days

PROGRAM ARRANGED

Davidson Publications Send Eight Men to Represent Annual, Magazine and Davidsonian

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will hold its annual fall session in Winston-Salem, October 28-30, inclusive, at Salem College. A peculiar interest has been taken in this convention as all the representatives have been assured that a bevy of beautiful girls and a good time awaits them. There will be representatives from all the college publications in North Carolina, comprising in all about 50 or more delegates.

The convention will be opened Thursday, October 28th, at 8:00 p.m., by an address of welcome by President Byron Haworth, editor of The Guilfordian. On Thursday night the Salem College girls will give a reception in honor of the delegates. After this, a theater party.

On Friday, business matters will be disposed of. At that time various discussions and reports will be made and the plans for the coming year formulated. Saturday morning, the best annual in the state will be chosen by a vote of all the college publication representatives of this kind. In the spring session of the association, the best magazine and newspaper of the year are chosen in the same way.

The Davidson College publications will send eight men to the convention this fall. All three of the college publications will be represented. W. H. Branch and B. F. Martin will represent the editorial staff of The Davidsonian, and V. S. Broyles the business staff. From the magazine, H. M. Austin and W. S. Woods will represent the editorial staff, and E. D. Witherspoon the business staff. L. D. Wharton and C. W. Williams (Continued on page 5)

Stunt Night Will Be a Feature of Homecoming

Annual Event to be Concluding Number of Program Scheduled That Day

The annual stunt night will be held this year under the auspices of the Glee Club. The date set for this traditional show is Saturday night, November 13th, Home-Coming Day. This will be the final event of the day of festivities.

As the sponsors of the evening's entertainment, the Glee Club will have a prominent part. The entire ensemble is working on several pieces that they will render that evening, while a quartet will also be on the program. The Jazz Orchestra, the Symphony Orchestra, and the Mandolin Club will also have a part in the program.

Of a more or less humorous nature will be the stunts put on by each class. In years past some of these parts of the entertainment have been fine and committees are at work now getting things in line. Each class tries to put on something original and as a surprise, attempts to keep their plans under cover. As a main attraction will be the part of the Dramatic Club. They will put on one one-act play written by local talent. This part will be under the management and direction of (Continued on page 7)

Iron Horse Takes Davidson Rooters To and From Game

Sure, it was a choo-choo, Ferdinand. A real, genuine, get-for-home-Bruno, snortin’, hell-bound-or-bust locomotive train. But just to be sort of devilish-like we're going to pretend it was a ship. Now this isn't a fairy tale. No, siree, boss! You'll have to admit it would have been as sensible to run a canal as a railroad track atwixt Davidson and Charlotte since the speed element would be the same in each case.

Suppose there is a broad, deep canal instead of a rail track. Toot, toot! The many-tonned old faithful, Winston-Salem, clears port from the Jaybird dock at 1:18. For passengers, it has assembled the most variegated, mottled, and gorgeously robed band of old salts available from the sailors’ homes of historic port Davidson. How pathetic a sight these faithful seamen off for an ephemeral spurt of pleasure. The well-known gourmands of this picnic party, Dave Howard and Paul Fry, detain the definite clearance of the vessel by two minutes yielding to their abnormal table propensities.

Speed, speed, speed. No one dares calculate the number of knots. Far in the distance, Winston-Salem lays a tiny Ford harbor tug. Valiantly the worthy steamer speeds ahead. On, on—it passes the tug. (Anyhow, we thought we were running a race. Oh well, Ferdy). The Cornelius fishermen line the shore, open-mouthed with wonder at the trim ship sailing down the coast. (Darn these anchored tugs, she re). As the boat rocks hitherward and thitherward—all good ships do, you know—hurl your optics about and enjoy a panorama of rare sartorial and psychological import. First, however, fork over your passport to the Captain. (Continued on page 6)

State Game To Be Changed Next Year

In all probability, the N. C. State-Davidson football game will be played at Greensboro in 1927, according to a recent announcement by athletic authorities of both institutions. This was not made as a definite statement; but it is well understood that negotiations are under way for the contest to be played in the new Municipal Stadium of the “Gate City.”

Up until the last two years, the two teams have met at the annual State Fair at Pinehurst. Last year, however, the game was played at Davidson and this year at Raleigh. The Greensboro game will mark their return to foreign territory. The date set for the game next year is November 6th, which is now occupied by the Davidson-Hampden-Sidney clash. While no statement has been made about the matter, it is believed that the Tigers will remain on the Davidson schedule at a different date.

Whether the game will be played in Charlotte next year or on the Tiger's home lot is a matter of conjecture. The Wofford game for the coming year has been definitely set for the second Saturday of this season, which comes on September 24th in 1927. The place of the game is uncertain at present, but will probably be played on Richardson Field. Duke will be met again on Thanksgiving Day at Davidson and V. M. I. will come to Davidson on October 30th in accordance with a two-year agreement between the two schools.

A few weeks ago it was rumored from Chapel Hill that the Tar Heels would drop (Continued on page 3)

LEADS CADETS

Carlyle Roy Berry is said by sports writers in the Old Dominion State to be the most powerful guard to have donned a V. M. I. jersey in many years. This is his second season on the Cadet varsity. He received second honorable mention for All-Southern honors last year. The Wildcats will have to keep him in mind next Saturday at Lynchburg.

Davidson Meets Flying Squadron at Lynchburg

Young Men’s Business Club of Lynchburg Promotes Big Game—Interest High

Next Saturday, October 30th, is the date set for the fighting Wildcats to clash with Virginia Military Institute’s Flying Squadron. This game will be watched with real interest by followers of the Davidson team, for in it the Cats will tackle a foe worthy of their mettle. V. M. I. has a strong team, with a heavy line and plunging backfield, and is certain to give the Wildcats one of the hardest battles of the season. North Carolina State furnishes a comparative score. V. M. I. beat State by a 6-0 count while Davidson was able to win from them by the close scoreof 3-0. This seems to indicate that the teams who meet at Lynchburg will be fairly evenly matched. The Young Men’s Business Club is sponsoring the game, and every effort will be made to make it the biggest game of the season. The new Municipal Stadium, in the heart of Lynchburg and seating 10,000 people, will be dedicated. The entire V. M. I. battalion will attend. A special inducement to fans living in this section is the reduction of railroad rates to the game, and for this reason, many Davidson people are expected to be present and cheer the team on in its attempt to wrest victory from the Flying Squadron.

That Davidson will have a tough time with her opponent is forecast in the fact that State made only one first down against V. M. I. Davidson’s line will meet a severe test when it has to stop the Squadron's galloping backs, the most outstanding of whom is Curly Geo- (Continued on page 8)

First Virginia Game

Wildcat-Deacon Clash Ends in 3-3 Tie

Four Seniors Are Taken by Omicron Delta Kappa Frat

Four Seniors, who were bid by the local chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, two weeks ago, were formally admitted into membership at the regular fall initiation of the fraternity last Monday night. The four initiates were F. F. Bohannon, president of the Athletic Association; R. H. McIlwaine, manager of football; F. F. Anderson, captain-elect of basketball; and H. G. Goodykoontz, captain-elect of track. Special invitations, sent out by the local chapter, brought a number of prominent alumni, who are members of the fraternity, back to the campus to witness the initiation. Faculty members were also present to watch the mystical tenets of the organization. New initiates receive instruction in the mystical tenets of the organization.

Considerable interest was manifested by students in the fall election this year, due in a large measure to the fact that the Omicron Delta Kappa bid-day brought with it the inauguration of “Tap Day,” an innovation on the local campus. The four new members of the order were chosen with special and appropriate exercises in chapel two weeks ago, and have worn the colors of the fraternity since that time. Their initiation last Monday night marked the conclusion of O. D. K. elections from the present Senior class, a number of Seniors having been chosen by the local chapter early last spring. Extraordinary interest resulted from the selection of the four new men to the chapter, many students having anticipated their selection. The “tapping” of the four Seniors was the signal for profuse applause on the part of the students in general, this being taken as a mark of approbation by the men who were members of the honorary group. It is generally believed about the campus (Continued on page 7)

Fact Finders Meet To Elect Officers

The “Fact-finding” committee, composed of faculty and student members appointed by Dr. Martin, had a long and interesting meeting last Friday afternoon. The larger part of the discussion was centered about the report of the committee appointed to consider student activities outside the classroom. Bill Covington, chairman of this committee, being absent, the report was submitted by Mae Austin. The other members of this committee are Christian, Pinkney, and Foster. After having given the activities careful consideration, the committee recommended that the student activities be studied under the following heads: Social, Athletic, Religious, Intellectual, and Outside Activities. It was decided to appoint subcommittees to take care of these separate and distinct phases of student life. Other plans of the Fact-finding committee were discussed but no definite action was taken at the time. The committee will meet whenever the chairman thinks proper, during the school year. This new body is expected to do much valuable work by its investigation of student life and no doubt it will pave the way to better conditions of the student body and more harmony between the faculty and students.

The question of why the students do not visit the faculty members as much as they used to on Sunday nights was discussed. The faculty members all seemed to be anxious to have the students visit them, and anxious to remedy the falling off in these (Continued on page 2)

Eleven Wildcats, wearing the red and black of Old Davidson, fought throughout four periods of one of the most brilliantly played gridiron classics of the year last Saturday, when the Demon Deacons from Wake Forest were sent home, not with the expected touchdowns, but with three points, which were duplicated by the Wildcats. Playing before a crowd of football enthusiasts estimated at eight thousand, who had gathered at Wearn Field, in Charlotte, thrill after thrill was received as the two teams played up and down the field only to emerge at the end of the contest with the score being 3-3. For a while it seemed to the spectators that the Presbyterian warriors would be the victors of the engagement, but when the second half opened, the Demon Deacons opened with it a new attack by which they were able to kick a field goal in the last period of play and tie the score.

Davidson's score came early in the second quarter, after the Wildcats had marched from midfield to Wake Forest's three-yard line, assisted by a pass from Grey to Wells for 21 yards. Three line bucks netted only one yard and then Dick Grey stepped back to the 19-yard marker to drop-kick a field goal. This was Grey's fifth successful drop-kick of the season. The remainder of the half was a see-saw affair, the ball being almost in midfield when the period was over. The Wildcats had gained four first downs during this stanza, but that was all allowed by the Wake Forest team during the game. Davidson was put on the defensive in the second half when the Deacons came back (Continued on page 2)

Varsity Managers Will be Elected by Players

New System Inaugurated to Divide Power of Election Among More Men

At the recent meeting of the Athletic Association a very important change was made in regard to the election of the varsity managers of the different sports. Heretofore the managers were chosen by what was called the Athletic Council, which was composed of the captain of any particular sport, the manager of the sport, the coach of the sport, the faculty advisor, and the president of the Athletic Association. But by the new method of election, as explained to the student body by Bohannon, president of the Athletic Association, the members of the old Council plus all of the lettermen of that sport, will elect the varsity manager for the coming year. The old Council will still choose the Junior managers from the Soph class, however, but the election of varsity managers will be in the hands of those named above.

This change in election was thought advisable as now the power is placed in the hands of quite a number, where it formerly rested with a few who might possibly be influenced by outside obligations, and in that manner disregard a man that really ought to have the position. Up until the coming of (Continued on page 8)