THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1926

Sambo—“Ah wants a cake ob soap.”
Clerk (readily)—“Den yo’ wants Ivory soap.”
Sambo (slowly)—“Well, ah wants a cake ob soap to wash ma head wif.”

Marriage is that period in a man’s life when he trades a discontented life for a discontented wife.

The arrival of the annual Davidson College Day brings a day of pleasure for all the students, a day of
drills, and speeches, and stunt night, which is all surpassed by the interest in the completion of the new stadium,
erected as a memorial to the energetic efforts of Dr. L. Richardson by his sons, Messrs. H. S. and L.
Richardson, of Greensboro. This interest, which has increased by leaps and bounds, will be brought to a climax with the
exercises this morning.

The work on the concrete stadium began in the last part of August. Due to the lack of time, work
has been rushed and night shifts have even been required at times. Z. F. Foard has been in charge of
the work. The exterior of the stadium has been entirely completed and is exceedingly attractive. The 24 tiers of seats
are of solid cement work, covered over with a white coating of the same material. On each tier, the wooden
seats are fastened to the cement by bolts. The paint on the wooden seats was just applied during the past
week. Two flag poles are fastened at the top of the stadium, just above the main entrance. Both spectators and
football teams will enter through this entrance. The students will, as usual, enter through the side gate behind the baseball
diamond. The flag poles are so arranged that the pennants of Davidson and the visiting team may be raised with
little difficulty. The stadium will seat about 1,600 people.

The interior of the stadium consists of a large hallway, through which the spectators enter the stand. From this hallway,
two dressing rooms extend on either side. One of these rooms will be for the home team, while the other
is spacious enough to accommodate any team that meets the Wildcats in a contest on the home field. A lady’s
rest room is situated in the new stadium just to the right of the main hallway. Work on the installation
of the plumbing fixtures in the dressing room is progressing rapidly so that the interior may be completed as soon
as possible.

The public exercises at the new stadium will begin at 11:45 on Saturday morning. The visitors will be seated on
the southern end of the stadium; the band and battalion will occupy the northern end reserved for them during the
remainder of the exercises.

Statistics of the Davidson-Hampden-Sidney game played last Saturday in Charlotte reveal that the Virginia Tiger outclassed the Davidson Wildcat in
practically every department of the game. Their ground gained on passes almost doubled the amount gained by the Wildcats. Through
the line, they gained 141 yards to the Wildcats’ 24. Dick Richardson will be present but Mr. Hendri will be
absent due to other commitments. President Martin, who will preside at the exercises, will officially receive both the field and
the stadium for Davidson College. The closing part of these exercises will be a dedication prayer by Dr. C. M.

The following is a summary of the game:
First downs—Hampden-Sidney, 11; Davidson, 4.
Yards through line—Hampden-Sidney, 141; Davidson, 24.
Yards around end—Hampden-Sidney, 31; Davidson, 52.
Yards on passes—Hampden-Sidney, 128; Davidson, 67.
Yards on returned kicks—Hampden-Sidney, 105; Davidson, 100.
Average distance punts—Hampden-Sidney, 32; Davidson, 40.
Passes completed—Hampden-Sidney, 8 in 19; Davidson, 4 in 15.

“We will bridle our tongues if we are doers of God’s Word. It is oftentimes hard to be successful in
such a struggle through great effort.”Faith in God and by asking Him, through prayer, for wisdom and guidance.” In conclusion,
Dr. Lacy, using a quotation from Carlyle, said: “Conviction, be it ever so excellent, is worthless until it converts itself
into conduct.” “The will to go forward and build as we have heard is the crying need of Christianity today.”

At the Monday morning service, Dr. Lacy took as his text, “Why seek ye me? Know ye not that I
must be about my Father's business?” Stating that, just as Jesus was about His Father’s business at an early age,
so should each one be about God's business in developing his mind, body, soul, and social graces. “Young college men,”
he declared, “should be careful for their physical being, remembering that their body is the temple of God. A reckless
life will wreck the possibilities of any youth. Even if he reforms later he must pay the price for disregarding
his heritage of health.”

Dr. Lacy urged against devoting all energies toward scholastic achievement at the expense of one’s health. “God has given man
a finer thing than a body! That is the human mind, which lifts man above the other creations. To be
of any value this mind must be trained at the right time and in the proper manner. A man who
passes up this training will be worthless. Every true and faithful Christian must dedicate his mind and body to the
service and glory of God.”

The last man on the list is Rev. W. A. McIlwaine, of the class of 1915, founder of The Davidsonian
and of the Mimir Society, local honor society, taken into Phi Beta Kappa. The four students elected are all of
the Senior class and have led their class in scholarship for the last three years. They are W. A. Christian,
Mobile, Ala.; H. M. Austin, Laredo, Tex.; W. T. Covington, Raeford, N. C.; and W. S. Woods, of China. There
has been no speaker chosen as yet for the public ceremony, although the committee is in correspondence with several men
of note.

Hampden-Sidney Proves Supremacy by Statistics

Fumbles—Hampden-Sidney, 6; Davidson, 1.
Kick-offs—Hampden-Sidney, 3; Davidson, 1.
Passes attempted—Davidson, 15; Hampden-Sidney, 10.
Average distance gained on passes—Hampden-Sidney, 15 yards; Davidson, 17 yards.
Passes intercepted—by Hampden-Sidney, 3; by Davidson, 0.
Penalties—Hampden-Sidney, 80 yards; Davidson, 120.
Fumbles recovered—Davidson, 3; Hampden-Sidney, 0.
Drop-kicks attempted—Hampden-Sidney, 2; Davidson, 0.

Grey outbooted the Tiger punter, his average being 40 yards to the Virginia man’s 32.

At Forty

“At Forty” the housewife in some sections of Europe wears a black bonnet to signify the end of her youth.
A quaint custom—you say—but it usually signifies a fact. Heavy tasks, indoors and out, have made her old—at forty.

Of all the uses of electricity in America, the most important are those which release the woman from physical drudgery.
Electricity carries water, washes clothes, cleans carpets, cooks the family’s food—better and quicker than could be done by hand. Upon
great generators which send out current to light the homes and carry the burdens of millions, you will find the
G-E monogram. Upon industrial motors, on electric railway trains—wherever quality and unfailing performance are first essentials—the G-E monogram will be
found.

A trip to town or an hour’s rest in the afternoon pays a woman dividends in good health “at forty
years.” And what is youth but that? Men and women who have had the benefit of college training and college
life have learned to place the proper value upon rest and recreation. They appreciate the relief afforded by electricity.

A series of G-E advertisements showing what electricity is doing in many fields will be sent on request. Ask for
booklet GEK-1.

LIFE WORK MEETINGS (Continued from page 1)

No man is tempted of God, for He has given divine strength and passions implanted by the Devil in the
human heart. No man can get rid of temptation by yielding to it, for such a course leads to sin
and death.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK

AT EFIRD’S NOW

Here’s an oxford for young men who value their feet. It is a “Crawford” oxford, made of Scotch grain leather,
exactly as illustrated. $8.50 Pr.

PUBLIC INITIATION (Continued from page 1)

MEN’S SECTION STREET FLOOR

“Quality With Price”
