THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 14, 1926

Calendar

Thursday, October 14
3:00—Football—N. C. State vs. Davidson, Raleigh.
7:30—Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies.
8:15—Pandemic Literary Society.

Friday, October 15
7:00—Band practice—Armory.
8:00—Glee Club practice—Shearer Hall.
9:00—Gamma Sigma Epsilon.

Saturday, October 16
3:00—Football—Furman Fresh vs. Davidson Fresh, at Davidson.
8:00—Movies at the Gymn—“Blarney” with Renee Adoree.

Sunday, October 17
11:15—Church—Dr. Gregory, of Morganton, N. C.
1:45—Christian Endeavor Training Class. Progressive Endeavor.
2:30—Ministerial Band.
6:15—Y. M. C. A—Rev. Edgar Woods, of Salisbury, N. C.

Monday, October 18
7:00—Glee Club—Shearer Hall.
7:30—Court of Control—Parlor of Watts.
8:00—Omega Phi Alpha.

Tuesday, October 19
7:00—Band practice—Armory.
7:30—Pan-Hellenic Council.
7:30—Biology Club. Junior Phi Society.
9:00—Student Council.

Wednesday, October 20
7:00—Glee Club practice—Shearer Hall.
9:00—Sigma Upsilon.

Gridiron Stars Cavort In Afternoon Contests
Much Interest Evidenced in Campus Football Games

On account of the lack of benevolence on the part of some Davidson student, campus football has been late in getting under way, but this tardiness in beginning the fray is more than overcome by the interest all the students have taken in it. Some are so eager to begin this new form of air contest that they scarcely have time to take their books to the various rooms after the bell has tolled the closing of another day of study, and many of the fans give them a wild swing as soon as they reach the field. Not a day passes, but there is a campus football game of some sort behind the Armory; Tuesday, however, seems to be the most popular day, because many are detained on other days by such trivial things as Labs., drills and executive committee meetings, and trips to Charlotte. Tuesday afternoon is free from all engagements, and fans, stars and student body turn out in full force for a hot contest.

A few of the sensational stars of last year are back, but the ranks left open by the graduation of such men as Kimbrough, “Kelly” Moore, and George Smith, are rapidly filled by Bud Guthery, Bobbie Link and Hamp Jennings, who have shown up par excellence this year. As compared with last year’s record Bill Story is a bit off form; this he states is due to the failure of his line to hold out the brilliant Bud Guthery and John Stork and not to any slothfulness on his part. This misfortune has been offset by his daring end sweeps which have netted him many yards. Bud Guthery’s educated toe, envied by a host of admirers, has not failed him in bringing victory to his team and renown to his name. When Snooks Kilgore has succeeded, by dodging and side-stepping, in putting the ball in the shadow of the opponent’s goal, it is very, very seldom that Bud fails to put the finishing touches on the necessary three points. The absence of Dick Kane from the opposing side has made it possible for Bud to accomplish great feats with his toe. Dick’s absence will be keenly felt for he is not to be seen snatching forward passes for great gains. He now resides in the infirmary, sustaining an injury from two broken fingers on the left hand. Although the teams have not yet elected their captains and managers, they show by their playing that they have been well trained and are well generaled. The prospects for a most successful season are very bright.

Journalistic Fraternity Reorganized on Monday
Branch Elected President of Chapter at First Meeting

Following a period of decadence, during which time the fraternity failed entirely to function, the Davidson chapter of the Delta Pi Kappa honorary journalistic fraternity was reorganized at a special meeting last Monday morning, at which time Harllee Branch, Jr., was elected president of the chapter, and Don Wharton and Walter Lingle were selected for the position of vice-president and secretary-treasurer respectively. All elections were unanimous.

Delta Pi Kappa was organized on the Davidson campus in 1920 to intensify the interest in collegiate journalism, and to reward those whose attainments in this field were conspicuous. For four years the fraternity enjoyed a life of service, and occupied a position of prestige among the honorary groups on the campus. At the close of the college term in 1924, however, the chapter failed to elect new members from among the under-classmen. The graduation of the older members left only one of the group to carry on the work of reorganization and development. This solitary member was Fred Smith, last year’s editor of The Davidsonian and an outstanding figure in literary circles on the campus. In an effort to revive the fraternity last year Smith called together a group of leading journalists in the college, and they proceeded to reorganize the chapter. The loss of certain important records, however, greatly impaired their progress, and the task of reorganization met with little success. Among the group that Smith called upon to aid in the work of reorganization were three members of the present chapter.

Upon the reorganization of an honorary fraternity council in 1925, Delta Pi Kappa was admitted to conditional membership. The condition upon which their membership in the honorary fraternity council depended, was only removed last Monday when the chapter was definitely reorganized. The present active membership in the fraternity includes: Harllee Branch, Jr., Don Wharton, Walter Lingle, P. F. Jones, Boyce Martin, and Caldwell Withers, all of whom have distinguished themselves in literary and journalistic circles. Plans for the petitioning of a national journalistic fraternity were discussed at the meeting last Monday, and definite steps are being taken toward that end. Committees to draft a new set of by-laws and a new constitution have also been appointed and are actively at work.

A variety of mushroom with a shiny elastic skin is a natural bomb. It has a white spongy center which changes to black powder as the plant matures and, at a certain stage of development, aided by heat from the sun, explodes.

What is believed to be the largest human skull in the world was recently discovered in South Africa. It measured eight and one-half inches in length and had a capacity of 122 cubic inches.large or how small, we Regular Bode legioviable—and the best your money can buy. Music in the evenings.

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
DAVIDSON, N. C.

URE IN AMERICA

Davidson, N. C., Oct. 9—The second “x-ray picture” ever made in the United States was produced at Davidson College, January 12, 1896, ten days following the first appearance of a plate in this country. This authentic information is obtained from Dr. R. H. Lafferty, of Charlotte, N. C., one of the most widely known radio experts in America today, who was a student in the Freshman class at Davidson at the time that the picture was made, graduating from that institution in the spring of 1899. He tells how three students went into the physics laboratory without permission on Sunday night, January 12, 1896, and made the “picture” on a Kodak plate, and that for some time they kept quiet about their work, fearing punishment at the hands of college officials for violation of rules.

In the September issue of “Radiology,” an article appears from Dr. Lafferty, which relates the part that Davidson College played in the first stages of this new discovery. He recounts trips made by Dr. Henry Louis Smith, then professor of physics at Davidson, later president, and now president of Washington and Lee University, telling of the hardships incident thereto. Dr. Lafferty has in his possession now the “pictures” that were produced over 30 years ago in the Davidson laboratory. Accompanying this article in “Radiology” is a cut of them. The full context of his writing in this magazine follows:

“It is sometimes interesting to engage in reminiscences of the early days of the X-ray. It has interested the writer to recall that during November and December of 1895, the Freshman class of Davidson College, N. C., while studying physics under Dr. Henry Louis Smith, now president of Washington and Lee University, engaged in the study of Crookes’ tubes. We Freshmen were mainly interested in the color play rather than the physics of the cathode ray and little did we dream that at the same time Roentgen at Wurtzburg, as well as many other physicists, were engaged in the study of the same phenomena. It was at just this time that Roentgen made his wonderful discovery of the X-ray.

“When we reassembled after the Christmas holidays, Dr. Smith told the classes of the discovery of the penetrating ray. Three enterprising Juniors, being much interested, decided to try it out. Osmond Barringer, of Charlotte, N. C.; Eben Hardie, of New Orleans, La.; and Pender Porter, now a physician in Brooklyn, N. Y., on Sunday night, January 12, 1896, slipped into the laboratory and made the ‘picture’ on a Kodak plate. It required about three hours’ exposure. On the plate were an egg, a pocket magnifying glass, a finger from a cadaver in the dissecting hall with a bangle ring on it and pierced by pins, a pillbox containing a pin, some cartridges, slips, and calomel tablets. This gave a very good study of densities. For fear of the faculty, these ‘sub rosa’ roentgenologists remained quiet about the experiment for a good while, though many of the students knew about it and saw the plate.

“Unless there were other bold physicists whom we have been unable to locate, this was the second ‘X-ray picture’ made in the United States. The first was made in the North somewhere and we knew of it, though we did not know where it was made until recently. In Pupin’s book, ‘From Immigrant to Inventor,’ he tells of making a ‘picture’ in his laboratory in checking the report from Roentgen. This was done January 2, 1896. We have also been interested to learn from Cosman, the Boston Journal of Medicine and Surgery, July 1, 1896, reports locating a jack-stone in the esophagus. In the latter part of December, 1897, Dr. Smith was called to Harrisburg, N. C., to see if he could locate a foreign body in a child who was choking. Loading his outfit, consisting of storage batteries, a large induction coil, Crookes’ tube and a small hand fluoroscope, in a hack, he drove 25 miles. The child was suspended on a sheet above the tube and an open-end thimble was found.”

Balmoral Castle has been equipped with modern heating facilities, and ladies-in-waiting to the Queen no longer shiver while on duty, as they did in the days of Victoria.

A traveler on one of Germany's 75 airplane routes is automatically insured for $6,000 by the concern operating the line.

Every minute $1104 worth of property is consumed by fire and every day 42 persons are burned to death with 46 injured. Be careful and help stop this awful waste.

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr.
Insurance Department
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CHARLOTTE ASHEVILLE GREENSBORO RALEIGH

Complete line of Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

J. A. K. Gag and E. R. McConnell have been appointed agents for Tate-Brown Company.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

New Fall Suits, Overcoats, Oxfords, Hats, Caps and Furnishings
Tuesday, Oct. 19, at Henderson’s Jewelry Store

Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.