8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1926

Pictures of Spain and Mexico Shown

On last Friday night the Spanish Club sponsored a series of motion pictures shown in the gymnasium. These pictures were
of scenes taken in Mexico and Spanish America, and proved to be of intense interest to those that are now
taking Spanish courses. The first of these was a motion picture of Mexico, taking the outstanding features from Juarez, the
northernmost port of entry, down to Mexico City.

Class Ball Teams Running Rampant

Literary Societies

Eumanean

At the regular meeting of the Eu Society, the query for debate was Resolved: That the Ware system of balloting
be adopted for all elections. Affirmative, N. H. Lynch and C. G. Davison; negative, H. Albright and Barnett McMillan. The
decision went to the negative. Robbins gave the current events talk and C. F. Smith read an original poem. The
installation of the new officers followed. At the next meeting, an open discussion will be held on the advisability of
the four literary societies combining into two.

Philanthropic

A very important meeting of the Phi society was held at their hall last Thursday evening. The query for debate
was Resolved: That the morals of the girls of today are better than those of the girls thirty years ago.
Morrison and Phillips upheld the affirmative; Tucker and Davis the negative. A vote of the house gave the decision to
the negative. Some very important matters came up for discussion, after which the society moved into election of officers.

For the past several days all we have heard around the campus is that baseball has just begun. At least,
if you ask any Davidson student about it he will tell you that, and he will undoubtedly add that his
class has the best team on the hill—of course excepting the varsity, which was the runner-up in the state championship
race. Before the championship game will be played to determine which class has the best team at Davidson this year,
special orders will be sent to all major league baseball scouts to be on hand for the clash. If they
can use none of the men on their regular teams they will perhaps pick some of them to entertain the
fans by coaching the baserunners when the game becomes listless. We have men here who can play baseball like a
jackrabbit can run. It has been said that the Seniors have a million-dollar infield, but our opinion is that about
nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand, nine hundred and ninety-nine of those million dollars have been spent when it comes to
their infield.

The Juniors lost their first game to the Sophs because they did not play heads-up baseball. The outfielders kept their
heads up most of the time but ducked at several balls to keep from getting hit. This cost them the
game. For the Juniors, Slim Vaughn, the spit-ball artist, pitched good ball. He had a fast out curve that dropped
so low at times that the batters caught cold in their ankles because the breeze was so strong. Pauline Mauldin,
who hurled the Sophs to victory, did not even have a prayer, and that was not answered, but due to
beating fresh and throwing rocks at the janitors on the day before, the Juniors were not able to do much
hitting. Bob Miller, the star outfielder for the class of '28, made a hot remark at one of the innocent
bystanders in the sixth inning and in the seventh inning he ran after what he thought was a fly ball
and caught a brick-bat. It is thought that he will lose only four fingers on his left hand. Swatten McGeachey,
receiving the pill for the twenty-eighters, was not up to par. He missed forty-three pop-ups that went over the back
fence. He complained of having lumbago and not feeling as spry as usual.

Hotshott Simpson, captain of the ’27 gang, was the sensation of the evening. He handled many hot balls which came
to him directly from the batter's gun. He was almost fired from the game for putting the balls in his
pockets. He handled the balls well but forgot to throw them to first when he got them. One person was
heard to remark that he would make a professional juggler look like a hand-cuffed armless wonder if he were pitted
against him. Crownem McColgan, the Soph’s only hope, and captain of their team, poled out a homer in the fourth
inning. He was in fine form during the whole day. In fact, his form made Gloria Swanson look like a
bag of meal.

Anyone wishing to make good money this summer by owning a freak baseball nine can easily become rich by picking
an all-dumb team from this aggregation and touring the continent with them to give exhibition games. For further information see
Willie B. Long, Bloody Hudgins, Stiffarm Laws, or Buckshot Jennings.

For the first time in several years, the University of Illinois is not represented with a conference championship team. At
this same time last year, they were the holders of five championship teams. Athletic teams are things which are hard
to figure on when it comes to being champions; it depends a whole lot on the teams of other institutions.

WILDCATS

Have those old shoes rebuilt. Service is our watchword.
E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP
Representatives: STEVE WALL and J. A. LAW

Pressing Business! Yes, that’s us, but we have plenty of time to do yours and we clean and press ‘em
right. Buy a ticket and save the difference.
Proprietors: Tex Tilson and Monk Mattox
Representatives: Bohannon---Leggett---Woodham

FELLOWS

We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N. C.With the following results: President, C. G. Davis; vice-president, R. A. Glenn; secretary, H. Worzel; treasurer, R. Dixon;
first critic, D. M. Calhoun; second critic, F. Phillips; first supervisor, C. Mauzy; second supervisor, S. Wadsworth. The freshmen question
is to be debated within the next two weeks, and it is hoped that the members will make an effort
to be present.

Pandemic
The regular meeting of the Pandemic Literary Society was held last Tuesday evening. The meeting was opened with Current Events
by Glenn Eddington. The regular debate was not held. The other two numbers on the program were Current Events by
C. R. McCarty and an oration by C. D. Patterson. An essay contest was announced by the Forensic Council to
be held in the near future. The president urged that as many as could enter this contest. After a short
business session, the society adjourned.

Metrophilian
The regular meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society was held last Tuesday evening. The query for debate was: Resolved, that
the United States should adopt the Hare system of proportional representation of voting. R. Butler and Tom Hamilton upheld the
affirmative against E. T. Pullen and Henry Powell on the negative. The decision was awarded to the negative. The debate,
in addition to being interesting, was very informational, the question not being familiar to the average student. After a short
business session, adjournment was in order and duly carried out.

DRAMATIC CLUB (Continued from page 1)
More careful preparation had been used. Mrs. Hengeveld and Miss Shelton carried off their parts exceptionally well in the first
play. Guthery played his part well, as did Dillard, Ratchford, and McNeely. Deck and Smith won many laughs from the
audience with their characterization of old men in Tailor-Made. Mr. Q. brought the program to a successful close. Saturday morning,
the entire party was taken in cars to the country lodge of Mrs. J. Holt, where dancing and other diversions
were enjoyed until noon, when a delicious picnic lunch was served on the beautiful grounds. A number of college girls
were especially invited guests at this affair. The party made the trip home late Saturday afternoon after a most delightful
trip.

At the University of Tennessee, practically all of the co-eds agreed that “petting” is cheap and common. All of them
agreed that a little petting, if it is seriously intended, is perfectly all right. One girl added that if it
were taken seriously it would not then be called petting. One girl said that she saw no particular harm in
petting but that she wouldn’t advise a non-professional to start. It is like a bottle of pickles; get one and
the rest come easy.

All the players in Ellen won the audience by their excellent acting. The Real TRACK SUMMARY

THE PRINCESS CAFE
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT--COME IN
221 W. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

When teams returned from the State meet, the Varsity and Fresh track completed a season that might be considered successful
from the standpoint that four college records were broken. Goodykoontz set a new record in the century and 220-yard dash
by lowering the hundred to 10 flat and the 220 to 22 1-2 seconds. Clement Penn clipped 6 4-5 seconds
off the two-mile run and set a new record of 10:25 2-5. Hamp, in the State meet, placed for first
place and broke the college record at the same time. The Varsity won from Wofford and the University of S.
C., but lost to the University of N. C., and to Clemson, Georgia Tech in the triangular meet held at
Clemson. They placed fourth in the State meet.

Better Liked Than Ever--the New Society Brand
CORNELL
We've never offered a suit so many men like---and ask for season after season. This spring the Cornell’s even smarter,
if possible, than before. Higher shoulders, a broader, more athletic effect. Again it’s the Society Brand favorite, and better liked
than ever. $40 up
The Tate-Brown Co.
38-40 So. Tryon Street

The Freshmen were not quite so successful, winning only one meet during the season. They lost to Charlotte High, placed
second in the high school meet, and won fourth in the State meet. Their only victory of the season was
when they swamped Catawba College freshmen, allowing them only two first places. Flynn and Kell were the outstanding men of
the team.

MAYHEW
Perfect Service. Suits Cleaned, Pressed
“JOBS WELL DONE”
Mayhew Dry Cleaning Co.
Davidson, N. C.
Mooresville, N. C.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Charlotte Observer
“Carolina’s Foremost Newspaper”

THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER’S news is the latest, having four leased wires coming direct into THE OBSERVER office. The news of
the ASSOCIATED PRESS is relayed from THE OBSERVER office all over the Carolinas to the other newspapers. Hundreds of correspondents
daily gathering news from all parts of the world. Features of the highest character and more of them, many of
which are carried by no other newspaper in the Carolinas. Complete local, State, national, and world news is furnished daily
to readers of THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER. THE OBSERVER is a complete newspaper, and it is now read daily and Sunday
by more people in the Carolinas than any other—The reason—a reliable newspaper, carrying all news that is news while it
is news, in addition to many interesting features, including a whole page of the most important comics daily, and a
4-page colored comic section, in addition to the Red Magic Puzzle Section on Sunday. Its market section is second to
none, and one of the best sport sections in the South. If you are not a subscriber to THE CHARLOTTE
OBSERVER, fill in the coupon below and mail to the Circulation Department with your subscription, or you may request sample
copies so that you can compare the quality of THE OBSERVER with any other metropolitan newspaper in the South. You
don’t have to pay for one year in order to get a trial subscription. You may subscribe for one month,
three months, six months, or a year. By all means, if you have never read THE OBSERVER, clip the coupon
and fill it in for at least one month’s subscription, which is only 75c, or request samples, which will be
sent upon receipt of coupon:

SUBSCRIPTION RATES BY MAIL
1 Mo. 3 Mos. 6 Mos. 1 Year
Daily and Sunday 75c $2.25 $4.50 $9.00
Daily without Sunday 65c 1.75 3.50 7.00
Sunday Only 40c 1.00 1.75 3.50

THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER,
Circulation Department,
Charlotte, N. Carolina.

Gentlemen: Enclosed find $_______ for _______ months subscription to THE (Daily and Sunday) OBSERVER. (Daily Only)
