THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1926

PNEUMONIA
Always call a physician. Until his arrival use “emergency” treatment with Vicks. This does not interfere with anything he may
prescribe.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS

He—"Do you think you could learn to love me?”
She—"No, it is just as much as I can do to learn tennis and bridge.”

FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“I’m not prepared today, sir.”
“Doctor, I’m sick.”
“Aw, it’s way down the track.”
“See how fast you can go around this curve.”

Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

“I’ll call you up sometime.”
“Sir, I positively refuse to marry your daughter.”
“I’ll look.”
“Madam, I have here a beautiful set of encyclopedias—”
“It’s good stuff. I know the bird I bought it from.”
“You say you lost control of your car?”
“Yep, I couldn't keep up the installments.”

Stewed (coming home from party) — “Be careful there, Jim. You'll run into something.”
Soused — “Me? I thought you were driving.”

“I am very surprised that they married. I thought he was only flirting.”
“So did he.”

WRIGLEY’S NEW HANDY PACK
Fits hand, pocket, and purse

Daughter—“Daddy, you are a perfect dear, aren’t you?”
Dad—“Well, if it’s over twelve dollars, I’m not.”

Persons who reside in crystalline edifices should refrain from hurling fragments of granite.

More for your money and the best Peppermint Chewing Sweet for any money

She—"Do you love children?”
He—"Yes, how old are you?”

Look for Wrigley’s P. K. Handy Pack on your Dealer’s Counter

Butcher—“Snap out of it, John. Break Jones’ chops and wrap up Mr. Smith’s ribs.”
John—"Yes sir, just as soon as I finish sawing off Mr. Murphy’s leg.”

Fellows: You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, Davidson, N. C.

Her—"Can you drive with one hand?”
Him—"You bet your sweet life I can!"
Her—"Then have an apple.”

Papa—“That man McAllister stayed very late last night.”
She—“Yes, Father, I was showing him the family album.”
Papa—“Well, next time show him the electric light bills.”

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

TOOT TOOT,
A prominent Junior, Senior, or a Graduate to conduct a Special Sale for a leading New York City manufacturer in
cooperation with his Special Sales Agency. An opportunity for some reliable person to make between $50 to $150. Unusual sales
and advertising aids will be offered in conducting this sale. Also sample suits. Must know by return mail. Write me
NOW. Upon receipt of a letter from you, I will place you directly with the party in question. Write PERSONAL
SERVICE, WATERTOWN, N. Y. Two references indispensable. Drawer 188

The prof was absorbed in study. His wife called to him: “Harry, the baby has swallowed the ink. Whatever shall
I do?”
Prof—"Use the pencil.”

Father (coming unexpectedly to son’s frat house) — “Does Mr. Brown live here?”
Senior—“Yes, bring him in.”

FAMOUS MARKS
Hart, Schaffner & Marx
Exam marks.
Mark time.
Birth marks.
Mark my words.
Mark Anthony.

German 1—“Oh, Professor, how many wings has a humbug?”

A woman looks into a man’s eyes for love, and the man looks around to see if the coast is
clear.

“It won’t be long,” said the coat as he got his tail caught in the lawn mower.

One of the members of the negro congregation rose and said that the church needed a couple of cuspidors.
“I nominate Tom for one of them,” said one of the deacons.

“People don’t seem to marry as young as they did when I was a boy.”
“No, old dear, but they do it oftener.”

“You say Tom Baker lit a cigar with a twenty-dollar bill?”
“Yes, but it was a bill for the cigars, I think.”

“Don’t you dare swear before me.”
“Pardon me. Go ahead.”

“The only midnight oil the college student burns is gasoline.”

SAYINGS OF THE GREAT
David—“The bigger they are, the harder they fall.”
Helen of Troy—“So this is Paris!”
Solomon—“I love the ladies.”
Noah—“It floats.”

Men get diamonds from women, but pearls from oysters.

“Did you ever kiss a girl before?”
“Sometimes before and sometimes after.”

Buck Jennings says he was in love with the garbage man's daughter but she canned him.

We believe that Nurmi is the greatest Finn since Huckleberry was a boy.

“What happened to that little girl that you were making love to in the hammock?”
“Oh, she fell out.”

“How did you get that red on your lip?”“Oh, that is my tag for parking too long.”
“Bill, don’t leave such a big margin, you are wasting paper.”
“Who's writing this?”
“You are, but it is my paper you are writing on.”

A FRIEND WITH A PULL
Cork—“Do you know that you bore me?”
Corkscrew—“Well, you'll have to admit I’ve gotten you out of many a tight place.”

Davidson Student Falls Victim to Cupid’s Dart During Visit to Brenau
Noted Junior Who Formerly Spurned Women is Enticed by Their Arts

Now it came to pass in the third moon of the reign of Tom, son of Baker, in the goodly
land of Davidson, Bill, son of Christian, did gird up his loins and wend his way to Brenau, in the
benighted land of Georgia, on the other side of Chattahoochee. And Bill abode there three days and as many nights.
And Bill, son of Christian, was a mighty man of strong arms and brawny sinews; nor was his countenance lit
by womanly smiles, but verily it was stern and grave like unto that of Pluto. Nor had Bill the Mobilite
yielded to the lure of charming women but did verily scorn them with a manly scorn. And many of the
fair daughters of Tarheelia did gaze upon his stern and gloomy countenance with great longing of spirit; and many tears
were spilled in vain at the coldness of Bill, son of Christian, son of Jack.

Now it came to pass, that in the borders of Brenau, yea, in the very heart of that virgin sanctum,
there did abide one female known as Delia, daughter of Simpkins, of the tribe of Jones. And she was a
woman of mighty charm; and her hair was like the ebony of India, while her eyes glittered with much glittering;
her form was like unto that of Gloria of the tribe of Swanson of the distant city of Gotham. And
Delia gazed upon Bill and knew him as her own. Now it was in the eleventh hour of the night
when Delia did verily dazzle the eyes of Bill, the Alabamite, when he did take it upon himself to journey
unto a moonlit garden in the walls of fair Gainesville. But the maiden yielded not to Bill the Mobilite even
though the massive frame of the mighty Bill did bow even unto her feet. And after three, yea, even four
hours of mighty pleading, the Alabamite did lift him up and turning himself steadfastly about did flee from Gainesville with
swift foot and heavy bosom. And he smote himself seven times on the fifth rib. And Bill, the Mobilite, did
abide in the land of Davidson, beyond Yadkin, many moons; and woman was an abomination in his sight and their
tears availed not. And did not this happen in the reign of the mighty men of '26 in the land
flowing with milk and honey, even the land of Davidson?

Ossifer—"Hey, you, mark time!"
Buck—"With my feet, sir?”
Ossifer—"Have you ever seen anything mark time with its hands?"
Buck—"Clocks do, sir.”

She (head on his shoulder) “Your shoulder is so soft.”
He—“So is your head.”

HOLLINGSWORTH’S WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“NEW SPRING SUITS”
Just one of many! The others are fully as desirable—footwear for any requirement, any occasion, & reasonably priced. You are
cordially invited to come and look ’em over!

On Display By Mr. A. M. Shimmon
Sat. & Mon., Mar. 13 & 15
At the Students’ Store

JOHN’S SHOES INCORPORATED — REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark, and Philadelphia
Address for Mail Orders, 191 Hudson St, New York City

YOU’LL ALWAYS FIND A GOOD SHOW AT THE VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE - - - N.C.
WEEKLY PROGRAMME
Wed. and Thurs., March 3 and 4—“Exchange of Wives,” with Elenora Boardman and Lew Cody.
Fri. and Sat., March 5 and 6—“The Scarlet West,” with Frank Carroll, a First National picture.
Mon. and Tues., March 8 and 9—“Graustark,” with Norma Talmadge. Pathe News. Comedy and special music.
Wed. and Thurs., March 10 and 11—“Don’t,” with Sally O'Neil, John Patrick, and Bert Roach. Comedy reels with all pictures.
Coming, March 17-18—“The Mystic,” with Aileen Pringle, Lew Cody, and Conway Tearle.

DON’T FORGET TO REMEMBER
To see them is to want them—Suits that fit and suit. Tailored by Schloss Bros., Styleplus, Keller-Heuman, Thompson.
BELK BROS. CO. AT CHARLOTTE
