THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1926.

IMPERIAL ALUMNI NEWS

Davidson faculty may be obtained promptly. No one will be considered who was born prior to October 1, 1902, or
later than October 1, 1908.

CHARLOTTE, NC

Gate City Alumni Given Banquet by Donors of Athletic Field and Stadium

Davidson College alumni, who are in Greensboro, N. C., at the present time, were organized into an alumni association last
night at a banquet given at the Greensboro Country Club. Mr. H. S. Richardson, a Davidson alumnus residing in Greensboro,
who with his brother, Mr. L. Richardson, have given to Davidson both the magnificent Richardson field and the Richardson concrete
stadium, was host on that occasion to all Davidson men in Greensboro. W. E. Milton, recently appointed alumni secretary, was
present at the banquet, and outlined the work of the Davidson alumni association in a brief talk to the men
gathered around the festive board. Dr. J. C. Rowan, president of the Alumni Association, officials of the college, and the
presidents of the Charlotte and Gastonia associations were on hand to assist in the organization of the new Greensboro unit.
The organization of the Greensboro Alumni Association marks the first step in a broad program of alumni organization, which is
being promoted by the new alumni secretary, Ernest Milton. His plans call for the organization of similar units in all
of the larger cities and towns of North Carolina, as well as in cities in other states where the number
of alumni warrant the establishment of an alumni group. The fact that Greensboro alumni have contributed so liberally to the
college led the alumni secretary to make that city the opening link in his proposed chain of alumni associations. A
far-reaching network of local alumni associations is the aim of the alumni secretary, who has already taken definite steps leading
to the accomplishment of his aims.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see VERNON S. BROYLES for QUICK SERVICE and BEST PRICES.

L. B. Huie, H. Y. Alexander, Otis Brenner, Harry Vance, N. C. McLeod are all students in the training school
of the Southern Bell Telephone Company at their Atlanta headquarters. The Davidson men are said to be making excellent progress
in the field of electrical engineering. They entered the Bell Telephone school along with a number of graduates from other
southern colleges last June, and have been located since that time in Atlanta.

Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

For Your Shines and to Have Those Hats Cleaned and Those Suits Pressed, Visit Central Shoe Shine and Hat Cleaning
Parlor, 8 East Trade St., Charlotte, N. C.

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA

The Finest Musical Instrument in the World

Prices $95 to $1,000

All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY

ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE

213 N. Tryon St., Charlotte, N. C.

CREDENZA, $300.00

ERNEST MILTON

The newly-elected Alumni Secretary, whose plans contemplate the organization of local alumni groups in all of the cities of North
Carolina, and in cities outside of the “Old North State,” where the number of local alumni warrant such an organization.
In spite of the fact that he has been at his new work only a few weeks, Milton has made
noticeable progress on the elaborate program of alumni grouping which he has proposed. His work as director of the Davidson
Press Bureau is proving instrumental in bringing more valuable publicity to the college than it has ever before enjoyed in
its history.

Personals

H. M. Alexander, of the Class of ‘26, will enter Princeton University this fall to pursue studies leading toward an
M.A. degree. W. H. Allison, ‘26, is now studying at the Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. Julius W. Anderson, '26,
is employed in a mill at Greenville, S. C., whereHe is preparing himself for a career in textile work. Tom
Barr, '26, has entered the Union Theological Seminary in New York City. J.C. Barrington, '26, is taking advanced work at
New York University. Wood Brown, '20, is teaching at the Gulf Coast Military Academy, Gulfport, Miss. W.D. Cox, '26, is
in the employ of the Retail Credit Company, at St. Louis, Mo. Glenn Eddington, '26, is working for an M.A.
degree at Peabody College, Nashville, Tenn. J.M. Garrison, '26, is a student at the Columbia Theological Seminary, Columbia, S.C. Vic
Brown, '24, is about ready to graduate from the Louisville Theological Seminary, where he has been a student for the
past two years. W.S. Legree, '24, is now a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives. Albert Whitfield Alexander,
ex-'27, has dropped out of Davidson to pursue his studies at the University of Mississippi. Richard Hunt McMillan, '24, has
retired from the radio business in Atlanta to take an important position with a large national plumbing supply house. Angus
McBryde, '26, is studying at the University of Pennsylvania. B.U. Ratchford, '26, stopped over at Davidson last week en route
to Duke University where he is planning to take advanced work in science. J.W. Bracey, '26, has entered the University
of South Carolina where he is taking advanced work in languages. Rosey McMillan, '26, is on the faculty and is
aiding in athletics at Barium Springs Orphanage, Barium Springs, N.C.

Students to be Chosen from Eleven Southern States this Fall

According to an announcement by Dr. Thos. W. Lingle, Rhodes Scholars will be appointed from eleven different states this fall.
These states are Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Oklahoma, Texas, and West Virginia. Those chosen
will study four years at the University of Oxford. The states mentioned are the only southern states from which appointments
will be made this year. Young alumni who have done some graduate or professional work, or have taught for a
year or so, are the ones usually chosen, though sometimes an especially influential man of the senior class is chosen.
Personality, intellectual, literary, social, and athletic prominence and leadership will be the determining factors.

Davidson has been unusually fortunate for the past few years in placing men at Oxford as Rhodes scholars. McDowell Richards,
son of Dr. C.M. Richards of the faculty of Davidson, has returned only recently from a three years’ study at
the University of Oxford as a Rhodes scholar. Last spring, Robert Davidson, '23, was appointed to a scholarship and will
take up residence at the University this fall to pursue his studies. Davidson was appointed from South Carolina. All who
are interested should communicate at once with Dr. T.W. Lingle, in order that the endorsement of the Davidson faculty may
be secured.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING

Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W.S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N.C.

ALHAMBRA
MONDAY, TUESDAY
CONWAY TEARLE
BARBARA BEDFORD
WARD CRANE
A First National Picture

WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY
"THE BOY FRIEND"
FRIDAY, SATURDAY
HARRY CAREY
A Metro-Goldwyn Picture
"The Man from Red Gulch"

Dyeing, Cleaning, Pressing, Altering
CITY DRY CLEANERS
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Ask any customer--24 hour service
Branch Mgr. Harllee Bordeaux.
Branch Office, 21 Rumple St.

College Men’s New Fall Suits
A Bigger and Better Assortment to Choose From. All the Popular Patterns and Shades for Fall.
$20 to $45
See Our Display at Eu. Hall Tuesday, Sept. 28
TUXEDOS $25 to $39.50
BELK BROS. COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Men’s Furnishings at Popular Prices
