THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1926

PLAYING THE GAME With Withers

Two in a Row

Today’s Game

Last Two Games

Memories of Two Years

Duke Freshman Team

When Davidson lost to Hampden-Sidney last Saturday, one record, at least, was broken. It has been many years since the
Wildcats dropped two games in two weeks. But the last two contests with Virginia teams have been extremely hard ones
and with the big game of the year on tap for Younger and Tilson in Fourth Su today with Carolina,
it is easy to forget those out-of-state defeats and hope for a victory this afternoon.

The Tigers of Death Valley, as the stalwart players of Hampden-Sidney are called, proved too much for Davidson. Only once
during the contest did the Wildcats seriously threaten to score. Toward the end of the game, by means of several
good runs and two beautifully executed passes, Davidson had the ball on the visitors’ one-yard line, but confused signals accounted
for a loose ball and cut the chance of scoring short. In the last play of the game Bohannon caught
a pass for a gain of 40 yards, but to no avail.

Startling even its most ardent supporters in its walking away over V. M. I. Saturday, the North Carolina Tar Heels
boosted their chances of a victory over Davidson today and greatly enhanced their championship possibilities. The Tar Heels enter the
game today favorites over the Wildcats, in the main on account of the slaughter of a team that had just
a week before that beat Davidson 12 to 7. The climb of the University team since the first game of
the season has been nothing short of miraculous. Losing to Wake Forest and Tennessee, they encountered South Carolina, doped to
lose by at least two touchdowns, but managed to send the Gamecocks back home to roost with the short end
of a 7 to 0 score. Ever since the South Carolina game the Tar Heels have been showing improvement with
a 28 to 0 decision over V. M. I. to cap their season so far. On the other hand, Davidson
won the first five games on her card, tied Wake Forest, and lost the last two to V. M. I.
and Hampden-Sidney. It was in a few minutes of the Deacon game that Davidson showed her best form. During the
first half of that game is the only time that the Wildcats have really played football, so by the law
of averages, by the spirit of tradition, and to avenge defeats of former years, the Wildcats are scheduled to play
the best ball of the season today against North Carolina.

Two years ago, these two ancient foes battled for three and nearly four long periods without a score on Richardson
field, playing before the largest crowd to ever see a football game in the western part of the state. Carolina
had marched to Davidson’s goal line early in the contest only to be held for downs and the fray waged
hotter and hotter until it seemed that it would be a no-decision affair. But in the last two minutes of
play, the Tar Heels' star drop kicker, Hackney, was rushed into the game to boot two goals through Davidson’s uprights
for a 6-point victory.

Last fall, at Chapel Hill, Davidson had the edge through the game as far as ground gaining was concerned, but
Carolina pushed across a brace of touchdowns and one extra point. In this game, Davidson made 13 first downs and
Carolina only 9, and the Wildcats gained 415 yards to the Tar Heels’ 224. But Carolina won!

The State championship hangs somewhat on the outcome of today’s battle. The losing team is definitely out of the race,
while the winner can claim honors with Wake Forest provided the Deacons win from State and Davidson beats Duke Thanksgiving
Day. All advance notices favor the Deacons and the Wildcats in these last named games. Anything might happen, for State
surely upset all calculations last fall when it bopped Wake Forest 6 to 0.

The Freshman team sent to Davidson by Duke University last Friday was one of the best seen in these parts
recently. It had been generally conceded that the Davidson yearlings had a strong outfit and that the contest would be
close, but Coach Mattox’s charges didn’t stand a show. Presenting the best passing attack seen at Davidson this fall, rings
around the local William Lee Younger for the Last Four Years Head coach at Davidson.

Freshmen to Meet State Yearlings

The Freshmen are going up against a strong team when they tackle the undefeated Freshman eleven from State College on
the latter’s home ground. This is the second game of the season for the Freshmen among the State yearling teams
and the outcome of it is going to be determined largely by the way in which the Wildkittens fight.

The State freshmen have fought both the first-year teams from Wake Forest and Duke to a scoreless tie. And they
also handed the Baby Tar Heels a taste of defeat last Saturday when they trounced them to the tune of
14-6. So it looks as if they have headed straight for the championship if we don’t stop them Saturday. Although
we tried to change the date of the game so as not to conflict with Home-Coming Day, we were unable
to do so as State has all other dates filled. The probable line-up will be as follows:

Davidson. Pos. State
Peterson RE Fenner
McConnell RT Koening
DeCamp RG Wolf
DeArmon Center B. Jackson
EG Ruth
Garson LT Jones
Evans LE Snider
Hampton QB Whisnant
Mathews RH Ward
Goodman LH Maus
Brohard FB Bullard

CAROLINA GAME (Continued from page 1)

The next event of the day will be at 2:30, when Davidson and Carolina clash on Richardson Field in a
game having much to do with deciding the state championship. All past performances of both teams point toward a battle
with a close decision as a result. Davidson has not met defeat at the hands of any state team to
date, while Carolina has been defeated by Wake Forest. Davidson and Wake Forest played a 3-3 tie several weeks ago.
By a comparison of the scores of former years, it is seen that the University has a decided edge on
Davidson in the scoring line, but notwithstanding that, the game played on Richardson Field today will no doubt be close.

As a conclusion to the program of the day, Stunt Night will be observed in Shearer Hall when classes vie
with each other in the presentation of clever stunts, followed by performances by the Glee Club, the Mandolin Club, the
Red and Black Masquers. Proceeds from this entertainment will go to the Glee Club. Many of the classes of previous
years are planning reunions and with this as an impetus together with the football game, a record crowd is expected.

Both Coaches Came to Davidson From V. P. I.

“MONK” AND “TEX”

Basketball, Baseball and Track

Younger Makes Letters in Football, While a Wildcat

Some four years ago this past September, when a stalwart athlete, an alumnus of Davidson, came back to his alma
mater, playing the role of head coach in the three major sports, even the most ardent supporter of “Monk” Younger
did not prophesy the success he has attained. Younger came to Davidson after aPeriod of several successful years’ coaching at
V.P.I. Here at Virginia Tech, he helped develop the man who is now his assistant, Tex Tilson. Tilson was one
of the greatest linemen yet produced at the Virginia school and during his collegiate days was chosen several times as
all-state and all-south Atlantic tackle.

William Lee Younger, a native of Lynchburg, Va., first came to the Davidson campus in 1916 and here as a
Freshman made a varsity “D” in football, basketball, baseball, and track. Although just a year out of prep school, he
received numerous mentions for an all-state berth as an end. This was during the regime of Bill Fetzer as head
mentor for Davidson, and the gridiron was literally nothing more than a pasture, for it was not until recent years
that Richardson Field was built. After such a successful year at Davidson, this four-letter man went to V.P.I. and at
Tech, he gained recognition during the first fall there in football. At the close of the season, he was elected
captain of the “Gobblers” for the 1918 season. Although he did not aspire for the track team, he won letters
in basketball and baseball.

The next year found Younger in Europe as a soldier in the United States army. The high esteem in which
Davidson’s coach was held by his teammates was further shown by their refusal to elect another man captain, and Younger,
in France, served as captain of the team. At the close of the war, “Monk” went to Hampden-Sidney as an
assistant coach and then to V.P.I., where he served until the fall of 1923, when he came to Davidson as
director of athletics. While at the Virginia school, he was coached by Branch Bocock, now head mentor at South Carolina,
and Charlie Bernier, whose Hampden-Sidney Tigers soundly drubbed the Wildcats last Saturday.

Younger has always been revered by Davidson as one of their best athletes and stellar coaches. As a further demonstration
of the esteem in which he was held by the students, the class of 1926 dedicated their issue of Quips
and Cranks to “COACH WILLIAM LEE YOUNGER, who came to us in the full strength of his virile manhood and
engendered in us ideals worthy of every son of old Davidson—Coach ‘Monk’—a gentleman, a friend, and a ‘Fighting Wildcat.’”

Probably only a few of Davidson students know the full name of Younger’s assistant coach, Sumner Dewey Tilson. Just where
the “Tex” comes in (from the name anyway) is a mystery to many. But, at least we do know that
“Tex,” or Sumner Dewey, Tilson started playing football at V.P.I. in the fall of 1918 and played there every fall
through 1922, a total of five seasons. This rangy lineman captained the team in 1921 but returned to help out
his team the next fall. Tilson was on the track squad, and here gained valuable information, although he failed to
make a letter in the sport. As Younger, he was coached by Bernier for one year at V.P.I.

Since coming to Davidson with his former coach in 1923, Tilson has had charge of the Wildcat line and in
1924 aided in basketball. In the last two years, he has had complete charge of the cinder path stars. In
this short time, he has brought Davidson from practically insignificance as far as track is concerned to a level of
many conference teams.

When interviewed by a member of The Davidsonian staff, the first of the week, the coaches stated that they had
not taken any action whatsoever in regard to a new contract with the Athletic Council as to whether they would
be back at Davidson next year. Both contracts expire this coming spring.

Union of the New Introducing to the readers of Rev. Eugene C. Caldwell, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Biblical Literature and
the Interpretation UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Saturday’s Games Have Little Bearing on Race Carolina Favored to Down Davidson in Championship Battle Here Today

The games which the various football teams of the state played last Saturday had very little direct bearing on the
standings of these teams in the race for the state title. On account of their victory over both Carolina and
Duke, neither of which Davidson has played, Wake Forest probably has a slight edge on Davidson in the very close
struggle for gridiron honors of the state. Fans are looking to the Davidson-Carolina game Saturday as one of the biggest
factors in determining the outcome of the race. Carolina, after continual improvement since their game with Wake Forest, defeated V.M.I.
Saturday by a big score. Taken in connection with the score which V.M.I. made against Davidson, this has caused Carolina’s
stock to take a big jump. It has been shown in the past, however, that no very safe predictions, on
the basis of past games, can be made concerning any Davidson-Carolina game. Should Davidson be victorious Saturday, her sole chance
for a clear title to the championship would be in the slim possibility of State’s beating Wake Forest. A victory
would place the issue wholly between her and the Deacons. A victory for Carolina Saturday would complicate the question of
selecting the best team even more than it is already complicated and would put matters into exactly the same muddle
that they were in last year. Both State and Duke, each having lost two games in the state, are virtually
eliminated from the race. Owing to the fact, however, that Davidson is yet to play Duke and that the Deacons
still have to face State, both of these teams still remain elements which throw some doubt into the final outcome
of the struggle.

COUGHS Every few hours swallow slowly small pieces of Vicks the size of a pea. Melt a little in a
spoon and inhale the vapors.

VICKS VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

PEPPERMINT FLAVOR A lasting treat and good for teeth, appetite, and digestion.

Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
