THEDAVIDSONIAN
Vol. XIV
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 7, 1926

Davidian to Have First “Tap Day” as O.D.K. Bids New Men Tuesday
Function Similar to That at Yale and Carolina
NEW INNOVATION
Novel Experiences Will Be Carried Out During Chapel Period Next Tuesday Morning

Davidson will now have its own “Tap-Day.” The entire chapel period of Tuesday, October 12, has been turned over to
the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, nationally famous leadership fraternity, to formally “tap” the half-dozen lucky men who will
be elected to membership on the night preceding. The announcement by the local circle that the plan used by most
of the circles in the fraternity will be adopted this year at Davidson came like the proverbial bolt out of
the sky. For years Davidson has been waddling along in the rut of mediocrity, but now it steps into the
path of greater schools. Yale has its own yard in which to tap lucky electees to The Skull and Bones,
Carolina has its historic Memorial Hall in which to stage the Golden Fleece ceremony; Davidson’s first tap-day will be held
in Shearer Hall. The date of the tap-day coincides with the bid-day for all honorary fraternities, set apart by the
Honorary Fraternity Council. Following the tapping in Shearer Hall, the bids to the other honorary fraternities at Davidson will be
posted in the post office. It is expected that the O.D.K. tap-day will be one of great excitement, for election
to membership is considered at Davidson equal in honor only by Phi Beta Kappa. There are at the present time
nine student members of Omicron Delta Kappa at Davidson in addition to a number of members of the faculty. There
are two elections to the fraternity each year. Last spring the following Seniors were selected: Jim Pinkney, Bill Christian, Bill
Covington, Mac Austin, Joe McConnell, (Continued on page 8)

Pi Kappa Alpha Winner of Scholarship Award
Given Harper Inter-Fraternity Cup by Virtue of Scholastic Average of 85.79

The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity has won the inter-fraternity cup offered for scholarship, with an average of 85.79 for the
school year 1925-1926. This was almost two points higher than the closest competitor, the remaining contestants’ average varying but little.
Averages of other fraternities are: Kappa Alpha, 83.96; Pi Kappa Phi, 83.49; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 82.83; Phi Gamma Delta, 82.64;
Theta Upsilon Omega, 82.63; Beta Theta Pi, 82.47; and Kappa Sigma, 80.81. The general average of the eight nationals is
83.09, which is expected to be greater than the student body average, which has not yet been compiled. Only the
national fraternities at Davidson compete in this contest, the cup rotating according to the highest grade of each fraternity. When
a group wins it three years in succession it remains in the possession of the organization for all time, but
so far none have been able to do this. The cup was held last year by the Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity. James Cunningham Harper, '15, of Lenoir, N.C., is the donor of this cup. He was a leader on the
campus, in the classroom, and in athletics while at Davidson. The Quips and Cranks of 1915 has the following to
say about him: “Harpy” is a hard student, a

R.O.T.C. Organized To Protect Campus From Fire Menace

Coincidental with President Coolidge’s proclamation announcing the week of October 3-10 as Fire Prevention Week, Dr. Martin and Captain Weems
have had a conference with regard to the organization of the R.O.T.C. battalion for fire fighting purposes. Cadet Captain T.L.
Short has been announced as Chief Fire Marshal. The hose and ladder company has been designated as Company C, commanded
by Cadet Captain W.O. Green. Company B, under the command of Cadet Captain V.S. Broyles, has been designated as the
bucket company, while Company A, Cadet Captain R.A. Brand, is the guard company. The salvage company is Company D, under
the command of Cadet Captain W.O. Puckett and Lieutenant Beckett is supervisory officer. The action of organizing the R.O.T.C. battalion
into a fire fighting organization is in keeping with the policy of requiring the cadets to be of actual assistance
to both the college and the town of Davidson. The town is without an organized fire fighting force and without
adequate machinery and other facilities for such protection; because of this fact it is the purpose of the battalion to
furnish this protection to both the townspeople and the college proper. In the event of fire being discovered either on
the campus or in town the signal for the (Continued on page 5)

Wick Black May Be In Carolina Event

Wick Black, powerful fullback on the Davidson varsity for the past three seasons, has returned to school after a month’s
illness with lobar pneumonia. In all probability he will be back in his football uniform within the next two weeks.
At present he is suffering a slight attack of pleurisy but this is expected to clear up within the next
week. Black was ill during early football practice. In his three years at Davidson, Wick has established an enviable record
on the gridiron, playing on the 1922 Freshman team, the first yearling eleven to represent Davidson College. He stepped into
the varsity ranks in the first game of his Sophomore year, since which time he has played in every varsity
encounter, save for the Carolina game last year, when he sustained a sprained ankle. Up until that time he had
never called time out and no substitution had ever been made for him through necessity. Black comes from one of
the leading football families of the state, and one that has meant much to athletics at Davidson. Two brothers “Slink
and Jack,” played on other Wildcat elevens, Jack Black playing with fame throughout the whole South. At the present time
his younger brother, Sam, is filling his place adequately in the varsity line-up and bids fair to become as prominent
as his brothers before him. Wick was captain of the team last year and was the first home product ever
to head a Davidson eleven, although the town of Davidson has furnished many great players for Davidson elevens. Although not
a great open field runner, Wick was the most consistent ground gainer on the team last year and the time
can hardly be remembered that he failed to gain the extra yard which would mean a touchdown and victory for
the Wildcats. In all probability he will be in condition to get back in the line-up for the Carolina-Homecoming event.

C.M.S. McIlwaine, editor of the Davidsonian in '25, has returned to McCallie Military School, Chattanooga, Tenn.

OLD FAITHFUL

Dick Grey, Davidson's man, whose educated toe sent the skin sailing through the cross-bars at Rock Hill last Saturday afternoon
for three points and a victory over Presbyterian College. The kick brought back memories of the Saturday afternoon in 1923,
when the late “Popsy” Hunt kicked from placement to defeat the Bluestocking team, 3-0, in the last few seconds of
a strenuous battle.

Press Association Will Meet at Salem College The End of This Month
Editors in Conclave From October 28th to 30th
WORK TO BE DISCUSSED
Best Annual in State to be Chosen—Haworth of Guilford Heads Association

Within the next week or so members of the staffs of the Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, and magazine, will elect
delegates to the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, which will hold its fall meeting October 28-30, in Winston-Salem. This year
they will be the guests of Salem College. The Salem maidens, under the leadership of Miss Dorothy Siewers, editor of
the Salemite and secretary of the North Carolina Press Association, are hard at work and are preparing an interesting program.
About the same number of delegates are expected to attend this convention as were presentAt Guilford last spring, the occasion
has not been secured definitely, but an attempt is being made to get men who are widely known in the
newspaper world and who will add prestige and enthusiasm to the meeting. The officers of the North Carolina Collegiate Association
are Byron A. Haworth, editor of The Guilfordian, president; Vernon S. Broyles, business manager of The Davidsonian, 1st vice-president; Sally
Gordon, G. C. W., 2nd vice-president; Dorothy Siewers, Salemnite, secretary; John R. Anderson, North Carolina State College, treasurer. This meeting
will simply be for the discussion of newspaper, magazine, and annual problems.

The speakers for Press are:

Fraternities Plan To Give Out Bids On November Fifth

The official Bid-Day for the social fraternities has been set for November 5 by the Pan-Hellenic Council. The date this
year is about a month or six weeks earlier than in previous years. This change in date is due largely
to a change of policy on the part of the faculty in its dealings with the social organizations. Heretofore, the
rushing season has been dragged out until the early part of December. This was found detrimental to the freshmen and
upperclassmen. Class work was often sadly neglected and expenses of entertainment were rather high. With these facts in mind, the
Pan-Hellenic Council was authorized to set Bid-Day about November 5. By this date, the reports of the first month are
in the Dean's office and eligibility can be determined. To be eligible, the passing of three three-hour courses is required,
as in the past. November 5 comes on Thursday this year. A weekday was chosen, rather than the usual weekend
date, because of the football season. The bids will be issued sometime during the day, and each man receiving a
bid will go to the house of his choice sometime during the evening. The consensus of opinion among the fraternity
men is that this new arrangement is far superior to the old system. The long rushing system of the past
has always been irksome and tiring to all the parties concerned.

Abe Lincoln Joins List of Lame ’Cats

Ralph L. (‘Abe’) Lincoln, rangy tackle whose spectacular work in the line against Wofford and Presbyterian College was the feature
of the Wildcats’ play this season, is indefinitely out of the lineup. A broken arm, received in practice last Wednesday
afternoon, will keep him out of uniform for at least four weeks and perhaps for a longer period than that,
according to doctors. Lincoln has been a prominent gridiron aspirant for three years, and this year was his greatest season.
In the fall of '23, he was a tower of strength in the Freshman line, showing up particularly well in
the game with the Furman freshmen. He was awarded a Freshman numeral as a reward for his work on the
rat team and was then turned over to the varsity coaches as promising material. During his Sophomore year, Lincoln's lack
of weight and experience kept him from participating to any great extent in the varsity contests. Baker and Laird, two
of Davidson's greatest linemen, were holding down the tackle positions for the Wildcats. Against these two experienced men, “Abe” was
unable to land a place on the first team. Last year, Coach Tilson used him in a number of contests,
and he showed extraordinary power. At the end of the season, his total of quarters, however, was barely less than
necessary to win him a varsity letter. During the past summer, Abe had amassed both weight and strength, and the
coaches looked to him to take an important position in Davidson’s first-line defense. Early practices showed Lincoln as a prospective
star, and the first three games convinced sport fans that he would be one of Davidson's outstanding contenders for all-state
honors. His work against P.C. last Saturday was spectacular. Repeatedly breaking through the Blue Stocking line, Abe managed to make
a number of brilliant tackles behind his opponents’ line. His work on the offensive was equally good. There was no
longer any doubt that this year was to be Abe's greatest. Then along came Fate, and from a deck of
aces, she handed Abe the joker. While attempting to cut down interference at practice Wednesday, Abe fell to the ground,
and (Continued on page 5)

Doctor Martin Appoints Fact Finding Committee to Consider Social Life

Eight Faculty Members and Twelve Students Compose Body

START IMMEDIATELY

Committee Will Make Complete Investigation of Students’ Social Life at Davidson

In the late spring of last year, Dr. Wm. J. Martin appointed a “Fact-finding committee” to study the whole social
life of the college as it relates to the campus as a whole and the relation of this campus life
to the outside public and to the faculty. As the school session was practically over, nothing definite resulted from the
investigation of the committee appointed last year, but this year the committee, consisting of both faculty and student body members,
has been reappointed and added to, making it quite a considerable body, and this new group has already begun to
function. The president has chosen for this committee eight members of the faculty and twelve of the student body. The
committee is composed of Professors M. E. Sentelle, chairman; J. M. McConnell, Frazier Hood, Archibald Currie, J. P. Williams, G.
R. Vowles, G. S. C. Lyons, and K. Brown from the faculty, and Messrs. D. M. Austin, W. A. Christian,
W. T. Covington, J. F. Pinkney, W. H. Branch, J. S. Foster, B. F. Martin, D. H. Howard, J. M.
Murchison, J. M. Akers, R. R. Kane, and T. E. Hill from the student body. The eight faculty members together
with Dr. Wm. J. Martin are to act as a finance committee to authorize any expenses which may be necessary
to carry on the work of the investigation. The entire body is to be subdivided into special committees to carry
on different branches of the work. No restrictions have been laid upon the committee and it is to handle this
investigation as it thinks best. It is privileged to address any questionnaires it desires to the faculty, students, trustees, or
alumni (Continued on page 8)

New Program Squelched by Publications Board

Proposed Football Pamphlet Gives Way to Homecoming Issue of The Davidsonian

Last week a request by three students to publish a souvenir program for the Davidson-Carolina game was denied by the
Publications Board. This program, to be sold at the game, was to be edited by Bob Link, Dick Grey, and
Lucien Wells. It was to be a thirty-two-page pamphlet containing photographs of the players of both teams, their records, weights,
numbers, score sheet, resumes of the football histories of the two schools, and other items of interest. The permission of
the Publications Board is required for any publication by students. The board, after considering the proposition from every angle, was
forced to veto it for the following reasons: First, it would greatly harm the advertising of the three regular publications,
which at present are barely able to secure sufficient advertisements; second, it would establish a bad precedent; in the third
place, The Davidsonian is to publish a special Homecoming issue which will contain practically the same material; and fourth, the
Charlotte Association of Retail Merchants object to the proposal. The Davidsonian will issue a special edition for Homecoming Day, which
will contain articles of interest to the alumni, in addition to data on the game as mentioned above. This issue
will comprise about 12 to 16 pages. An ample number of extra copies will be printed and these will be
sold at the game on Homecoming Day to be used as programs.
