THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1926

Start the New Year off right by letting Mayhew do your cleaning and dyeing. We are prepared to give more
efficient service now than ever before.

MAYHEWS
Master Cleaner and Dyer
Representatives: E. S. Christenbury, 109 West
**Bob’’ Link, 31 Georgia

Captain Cox Leads Mat Team Against Concord in First Meet Saturday

The Wildcats this year are missing Boggs, Staley, Beall, and McConnell, but even with this enormous handicap, the Wildcats have
begun a season which so far has been no discredit to them.

The wrestling team will open its 1926 season next Saturday night in its annual meet with the Concord “Y.” In
the past, the Davidson grapplers have always managed to defeat these opponents, but the prospects for this year’s encounter are
not as bright as in former years. But Concord will be met again on February 6, and the defeated squad
will have ample opportunity for revenge. After this contest, the N. C. State wrestlers will come to Davidson for a
meet on February 2.

A tentative trip which includes Duke on March 10 and the Navy men at Annapolis on March 13 is now
being arranged. It is also probable that V. M. I. and Carolina will also be on the schedule and will
be met sometime during the season.

The prospects for such a team as last year’s and of other years seem hardly possible with only four lettermen
back in school this year. Cox, Vance, Barrington, and Frierson have all returned and are on the team this year.
These men form a nucleus around which Captain Weems is endeavoring to build up a strong team this year.

The campus of Davidson is not going to lack in sport this spring. The initial start was made with the
sport of snowball fights, about which the Freshmen think that the less said, the better. There may be several more
of these before the beginners doff their fresh caps.

In the 139-pound class, Davis, Hansel, Alexander, and Houk are showing real class in their technique and strength. Both Cox
and Carrington are in the 139-pound class, but it is expected that one of them will be shifted to the
158-pound class. Crinkley and Christian are also working for a position in this weight. The heavyweight material is rather inexperienced,
but there is a large supply of material, both in weight and in numbers. Among the men trying for positions
in this class are Purcell, Stowe, Joyner, Mauldin, and Menzies. The Freshmen are also showing up well in the wrestling
tryouts. The war department is offering a medal to the Freshman who shows the most interest and development in wrestling.
Among those out for the team now are Flynn, Hill, Harper, King, Harrell, and Cromartie.

At the meet Saturday night with Concord, there will also be an exhibition of boxing by some of Captain Elkins’
exponents of the manly art. The participants have not as yet been announced, but they will be selected from some
of the men who have been out for positions on the boxing team.

Watch the track team this year. You are going to hear from them in big style. This looks like Davidson’s
big year in this sport, for there are several good men on the campus.

Tex Tilson says, “We're going to have a spring football practice which I mean is going to be a whopper,”
or words to that effect. Tex will have charge, and he’s going to work ’em hard. The practice will begin
shortly after exams, he says.

Gym Now Contains Additional Seats

A long hoped for need has at last been filled. The gymnasium has been amply supplied with new bleachers along
the sides of the basketball court. The new ones, four rows high, will accommodate a large number of spectators.

But for the next few days, basketball is the main thing. The students are...supporting the team in fine style this
year. This is perhaps largely caused by the assurance of a seat if they attend the games, the extra seats
consisting of about 200. Together with the old bleachers, those recently added will ensure all outsiders and students comfortable and
spacious seats for the witnessing of games. The erection of more bleachers was a problem which confronted Coach Monk for
some time, but now that that has been taken care of, he can be certain that there will be many
more supporters, formerly kept out because of lack of room, to root the Wildcat five on to victory.

As in the past, the Freshmen will continue to use the balcony at the games, while visitors will be seated
on the old side bleachers and upperclassmen will take the newly erected ones. The erection of these bleachers, which will
greatly lessen crowding, is indeed a step well taken and a step which will certainly be a means to getting
large crowds and assuring the team of greater support than previously.

SCORING OF DAVIDSON PLAYERS
Field Goals. Foul Goals. Total Points.
Laird (c) 18 3 in 4 39
Anderson 16 6 in 13 38
Huie 12 2 in 5 26
Wilson 5 2 in 11 12
Hewlette 3 2 in 3 8
Harris 3 2 in 5 8
Simpson 3 1 in 1 7
55 18 in 42 138

Without the services of these stellar cagemen the

Feb. 10—Oak Ridge, at Oak Ridge.
Feb. 11—N. C. State, at Raleigh.
Feb. 12—Wake Forest, at Wake Forest.
Feb. 13—Duke, at Durham.
Feb. 15—Carolina, at Chapel Hill (pending).
Feb. 18—Oak Ridge, here.

Extensive Schedule is Tackled by Fresh Team Following Final Exams
Coach Mattox’s Charges Will Make State-Wide Tour in Late February

Coach Monk Mattox has been working his yearlings at a terrific rate since the holidays, and they are fast rounding
into a formidable team. A number of Freshmen are out for berths and most of the places are undecided as
yet. There is much more material out for this team than was for the Fresh eleven, and on the whole
the team should have a more successful season than did the football heroes. However, exams will soon cut in on
their practices and will impair seriously the progress that has been made. Manager Christenbury has been working hard on a
schedule, and has a very creditable one so far. Several of the games are only tentative and have not been
definitely decided as yet. It is possible that even a few more games will be added to complete the schedule,
which will be one of the best ever attempted by a Davidson Freshman team.

One extensive trip through North Carolina has been planned, playing Oak Ridge, N. C. State Fresh, Wake Forest Fresh, Duke
Fresh, and a game pending with the Carolina Fresh. In return, they play Duke Fresh, Wake Forest Fresh, N. C.
State Fresh here, as well as several high school and prep school teams. Although no definite line-up has ever been
made, several of the Freshmen are certain of their positions, having made excellent showings in practice. At center is Crawford,
who has been playing a good game all year. Other men showing up well are Green, Leftwich, Gilmore, Winberg, and
Kerr. The following is the schedule:
Feb. 1—Wake Forest, here.
Feb. 4—Duke, here.
Feb.—N. C. State, here.
Feb. 27—Blue Ridge, here (pending).

“Are you going to be busy tonight?”
“I don’t know; this is my first date with him.”

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED MORALLY CONDUCTED
“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)
Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte

18 East Trade St.
We Sell Spalding, Wright & Ditson, Goldsmith, Reach, O’Shea Knit Goods
MYERS HARDWARE & SPORTING GOODS COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES
Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it with you as you go
Display Room every Friday
10:00 A. M. to 4:00 P. M.
Harrison Clothing Co.
Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.

OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
