THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 14, 1926

Two Jews were playing golf and one of them had a sunstroke. His companion made him count the stroke.

"If there are any girls you'd like to meet, I'll be glad to make you acquainted with them," said the soph to his charge. "Well, I ain't much for girls," shyly grinned the freshman, "But I would like to meet this Miss Co-Ed I’ve heard so much talk about."

Simms—"If a man ate too many green apples and died, what would be his telephone number?"

McQueen—"Isn’t it funny that we come into this world handsome and dumb?"

Norwood—"Handsome and dumb? Oh, you mean handsome enough to make the girls love us and dumb enough to keep us from loving them."

A squirrel is running in a hollow log. It takes him ten seconds to make a round trip from end to end. If he gains one second each time he makes a round trip, how long will it take him to have his head sticking out of both ends at the same time?

Dr. (to rather garrulous lady)—"I don’t know, your temperature is normal and your pulse slightly below 70."

R. G. L.—"But isn’t my tongue coated?"

Dr.—"No."

"When Antony left Cleopatra why didn’t Julius Caesar?"

In the cold moonlight his lips were white, while hers were vivid carmine shade; And joined the colors unafraid.

Jones—"Did you go to the dance last night?"

Crinkley—"Yes, I was there."

Jones—"Who won?"

Crinkley—"No, white boys."

Down our way a lady lived to be so old that when it was her birthday and they brought out the cake, six of the guests fainted from the heat.

Woods—"Is Frank in love with that dark-haired girl?"

Davidson—"I should say not, he’s a gentleman."

Droopy Hudgins says that since they call our varsity team “Wildcats,” and our Fresh team “Wildkittens,” he thinks the “all-Americans” should be the “Cat's Whiskers.”

Lincoln—"Did you know that a professor is a jeweler?"

Queens—"The principle is all right, my father is a clothier."

Estrid (looking over Christmas cards at the drug store)—"I wish I could find some that say 'Merry Christmas' and 'Happy New Year' without a Ford."I like.” | Me gl A crank in front of a bunch) Skit—“Here’s a sweet one. “It says nuts, 'To the only girl I ever loved.” H 1926; BE, Reyagids Tovecco Estridge—‘I’ll take a dozen of them.” scenes eae Drunk man (to lamp post that he has. ni niet —<—<—<_— ai SHE Stintered eo bay. mister, Atel Mr. A—“My wife wants to reduce. : : proche aril ae of eae tng . HM What would you recommend?” | Pliny records that the Romans, more = ——— we = ride iia Neadea idn’t, — Dr.—“How much does she weigh?” than 2,000 years ago, imported Roquefort 7 *=SS55 5 H oo eal thish wuth a one-way Mr. A.—“In the neighborhood of two cheese from France (Gaul) to add flavor SELZ SHOES FOR COLLEGE stree hundred.” to their banquets: | Pan i == “yy : , : You may think you have to spend a lot of money for your shoes-- Dr.—"Well, if she’ll walk ten Fatal Static ery de she wiledsen ae aha if they are smart looking and long Wena alate a ies ee Sing a song for Hugh McDough, helenvorioed? Radio has extinguished a flame for the we have medee ie aun ane y men--and at prices comfort- He heard lightning over his radio. peers first time. A man in San Francisco able to pay. They are designed by Bill Green says girls in Texas are so broadcast a shrill note which put out a SELZ Brothers (in English class).— “Mr. fast that one girl plays pitcher and sensitive flame in Berkeley, twelve miles Many interesting models $6 and $8.50. H ‘harton correct this sentence, “Our catcher on the same baseball team. FOWERA | H teacher am in sight.” pees ee The V : Wharton (slightly waking) — “Our! To knit and spin fe Gada ae’ aa cu : ey 15 E. Trade St. ‘ CHARLOTTE, N. C. teacher am a sight.” Was once a girl’s employment, _ The United States Government is pay- Ht Mail orders solicited " Mec LIOaN & But now to fool the boys ing pensions to 2,665 widows of sol- HI seeeasssassssssccocscssaeeceee ==: =a) I'll tell you how much money there is Is all a girl’s enjoyment. | diers who fought in the War of 1812. at a silver wedding if you'll tell me how s many karats there are in a golden text. : ] Eee eI UNG, A soph had assumed the task of en- (Continued from page 1) SEN ‘ : tertaining a freshman at the annual get- The complete list of honorary fraternity together meeting of faculty and stu-. bids includes the following names: “Now if you see any of these Alpha Phi Epsilon: L. M. McCutcheon, Where Good Fellows dents.” —- FORTY-THREE BIDS GIVEN |, ao i a M. C. O'Neal, A. T. Dillard. — EAT AT THE ASTORLUNCH SERVICE —|- THE BEST OF COOK- ING Charlotte, N. C. ee, Gamma Sigma Epsilon: J. Z. McDaniel, | Get Together F. S. Wearn, E. H. Richards. | International Relations Club: Laudon | Williams, F. D. Daniels, Howard Arbuckle, | 9 A. B. Witherspoon, Witt Hancock, Boyce B U C K § CORNER Martin, C. G. Davis, W. B. Bradford. Sigma Pi Sigma: M. D. Haney, A. F. | | Burgiss, R. A. Glenn, B. G. Alderman, G. B. | Hagood, J. S. Gray, W. L. Lingle, T. E. Lothery, J. L. Robinson, A. M. Smith, Prof. | | H. L. Elliott. Sigma Upsilon: W. S. Woods, J. H. Hall, J. G. Wharton. : ' Omega Phi Alpha: Colon C. Murchison, | R. S. Wilson, V. S. Broyles, H. S. Frierson. | Scabbard and Blade: C. C. Murchison, | |'T. L. Short, J. M. Farrell, K. V. Woodham, | | R. H. McIlwaine, D. M. Calhoun, R. A. | | | Brand. | Delta Pi Kappa: W. S. Gordon, W. S. | == Sodas, Fruits, Candies, Toasted Sandwiches Snappy Curb Service Brand New Place in Center of Mooresville 2 ee Warner Bros. Broadway Theatre CHARLOTTE, N. C. Thursday, Friday and Saturday, Oct. 14,15, 16 Milton Sills and Betty Bronson PARADISE Every Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday KEITH VAUDEVILLE Coming----Red Grange in One Minute to Play