10 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

De Miss Minnie’s

“Oh Min!” how “tasty” those sandwiches are! Bring “her” in during speaking.

Schofield Tea Room
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Arteraft Theatre
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Tuesday-Wednesday
April 6th and 7th
SEE
The Vanishing American
Adm. 15 and 35 Cents

Two Freshmen Fire Complete Targets

The rifle firing for the freshmen on the outdoor range is progressing satisfactorily, with more than half the class finished
by the Easter holidays. The first perfect scores were made by J. K. Cook and M. Gilmore. With good weather
and good scores, all firing should be completed by the 24th of April. Since becoming more familiar with the Springfield
rifle, the members of the class are finding the outdoor work less difficult than the .22 calibre gallery firing earlier
in the year. They seem to enjoy and get a kick out of the firing, as well as working in
the “pits.” The kick has been especially noticeable, and several have been telling afterward of the great trenches their elbows
dug on the firing line every time the gun went off. Several swelled lips also attest the fact that the
gun was not held exactly according to specifications laid down in training regulations.

The winning place in the Fourth Corps Area gallery rifle shoot went to Georgia Tech. While the local team did
not place so high, winning eighth place, they did make a very creditable showing, considering the condition of the rifles.
Better scores are expected next year, as there will be new rifles for all men firing. No report has been
received from the William Randolph Hearst Trophy firing. The scores sent in by the local team, consisting of Webb, J.
B.; Alexander, A. W.; Brown, E. E.; Short, T. L., and Abernathy, R. G., will place high. Webb has held
high scores in all matches fired here this year.

SIX MEN IN DAVIDSON (Continued from page 9)

Dr. Currie graduated here in the class of '07. He was the first president of the student body, and his
popularity has endured down to the present day. This is attested by the large number of students who enroll in
his classes yearly. “Jim” Pinkney was recently chosen to lead the student body next year. Jim, like most other leaders,
has proven himself a leader in athletics and in other activities as well. He is a leader morally and has
taken an active part in Y. M. C. A. work. The students are looking forward to, and expecting, a great
year under Jim’s guidance.

AFTER THE SHOW COME BY THE SANITARY CAFE And make the evening complete

The Sanitary Cafe
Mooresville, N. C.

WHITLEY-WILKINSON
Furniture and Columbia Records
Funeral Directors
Day Phone 186
Davidson, N. C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies
Mooresville, N. C.

Davidson Allotted Many War Trophies

Captain Weems has been in correspondence with Gen. J. Van B. Metts, who is in charge of the distribution of
captured German war trophies in the state of North Carolina, since early last fall, and recently he has received word
that the request for some of these trophies for Davidson College has been approved. Among the things that were requested
were: Three German rifles, two machine guns, bayonets, canteens, cartridge cases, “potato masher” grenades, helmets, lances, sabers, swords, etc. All
of these articles will be useful in instruction in military work at Davidson.

It has been rumored that Bob McConnell has turned nursemaid. It is alleged he was seen strolling about town last
Sunday with not only a tiny tot, but accompanied by two members of the immediate family.

Just after the announcement of the new members of Phi Beta Kappa, one of the newly elected members, Jim Appleby,
felt called upon to swell up to equal the occasion. It has not been determined whether the muffled jaws were
occasioned in defense of the nearby head or were of an involuntary nature.

For Sale: One double-breasted suit by the recent initiates into PhiBeta Kappa. They be turned over to the senior class
in R.O.T.C., who will store them in the senior class recitation room, in the armory. This is the first step
in preparation of a military museum for the college.

We think that the Student Store should sell Listerine and Shiek Lure during Junior Speaking.

We understand that the Book Lovers club has sent bids to Sisters Sloan, Brittian, McClaugherty, and Bogges. Although we do
not wish to reflect in any manner upon the attire of these students, no barrel hoops or staves have been
seen on the campus recently.

The Wilmington Club, presided over jointly by Bordeaux and Westbrook, met a few days ago with the Talladega Club in
the basement of Watts. The subject of discussion was “Orthodoxy vs. Recent Tendencies in the Davidson man’s laundry.”

In addition to the smaller articles, General Mett has allotted one 77mm. gun and carriage, weighing over a ton. The
American soldiers who fought overseas will remember this type of gun because of the characteristic velocity of its projectile, and
this characteristic caused them to dub the gun as the “Whiz-bang.” The articles are expected to arrive some time before
the close of the present school year in June.

FACULTY MEMBERS’ LOVES
(Continued from page 9)
The faculty will be recalling the “events along memory lane in preparation for the coming canvass, and it is hoped
that the results obtained will show that the bachelor members...

Pressing Business! Yes, that's us, but we have plenty of time to do yours and we clean and press ‘em
right. Buy a ticket and save the difference.
Proprietors: Tex Tilson and Monk Mattox
Representatives: Bohannon, Leggett, Woodham

Since 1868
The Home of Good Shoes
Every Davidsonian knows that the three requisites of GOOD footwear—Style, Quality, Economy—are ALWAYS found in Gilmer-Moore footwear. Spring models for
men of all walks of life are here.
GILMER-MOORE’S
CHARLOTTE

Now is the time for all good co-eds to go into Spring training. Among the training rules announced by Coach
of Zebra are: Knickers and absolutely no moustaches allowed. Training hours 9 to 11 p.m. Food: Peanuts, popcorn, and chewing
gum. Drink: Near Beer and Bud Weiser.

Do You Know These Men?
L. Bojaski Huie, J. Mourning Appleby, Lucius L. Deck, J. Abraham King, V. Seba Broyles, F. Esquidge Huggins, Granville C.
Ware Williams, J. Threatt Jones, O. Lynch Brenner, F. Tredwell Franklin, E. Ashburg O'Neal, Stewart Duke B. Ulysses Ratchford, Wyllis
B. Sloan, Willie P. Green, Elijah L. Lovelace.

Roland Baker, one of the seniors who taught in Mooresville last week, during one of his classes received a telegram
which read as follows: “Your wife running wild stop come back home at once.”

Madame Q. C. Rice, well-known society matron of Barracks land, entertained on Tuesday afternoon, in compliment to Miss A. Hayden
Hollingsworth, popular debutante of years gone by. A good time was enjoyed by all. The prize, a Parisian boudoir lamp,
was presented to Mile. W. H. Allison, and the consolation, following a custom of many years’ standing, was given to
Miss C. D. Patterson.

Chalmers Davidson spent Saturday and Sunday in the infirmary due to the fact that he did not get to bed
on Friday before 11 o'clock. Hippo Haut, Squirt Irwin, Karey Lowrance, and Ben Alderman, lowly aspirants to the glittering heights
of cheerleader, sent cablegrams home upon their first appearance in the eyes of the public.

BLACKFRIARS’ CLUB
(Continued from page 9)
She is hurt; then, when she is hurt in an automobile wreck, they all want to take care of her.
The acting of Miss Mary Freeman, who played the part of Aunt Teenie in the play by that name, was
especially good, requiring unusual ability to take the part of the woman who was run crazy by the sea. A
large audience greeted the players in their appearance. Several Davidson students attended the program.

“What?”
“A hundred pounds of ice.”
“Now wouldn’t that knock you cold?”

INSURANCE
We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price of not carrying it.
McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13)
Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department: Charlotte N.C.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS, VICTROLAS, RECORDS AND ROLLS. Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments, SHEET MUSIC
"OLDEST IN THE STATE"
ANDREW MUSIC STORE
2138 N. Tryon St.

IT ISN’T EASTER WITHOUT FLOWERS
Easter without flowers is like a day without sunshine. For your home or as Easter greetings to your friends, nothing
else can harmonize so well with the Easter spirit of joy and happiness.

Easter Greetings Out of Town
You can arrange to send Easter Flower Greetings to friends in other cities or towns through your florists’ telegraph delivery
service.

Order Your Easter Flowers Well in Advance
ART FLOWER SHOP
The Home of Beautiful Flowers
DAVIS ROBINSON, Prop.
336 North Tryon
Phone 6728
