Vol. XIV FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 2, 1926 No. 12 Wildcats Beat Duke to Win State Championship President of Wofford to Give Address Before Phi Beta Kappa Society Friday Four Students Will Be Initiated Into Membership SEVEN ALUMNI TAKEN All Student Neophytes Are Campus Leaders—Exercises to Begin At Eight o’Clock Announcement was made last week that President Snyder, of Wofford College, Spartanburg, S. C., would be the speaker at the Phi Beta Kappa initiation Friday night. The occasion of this ceremony, which is held twice yearly, is one of the highlights of activities on the campus, the public phase of the initiation being held in Shearer Hall. Eight alumni and four students will be affiliated with the local chapter at this time. The men who have been so honored by bids, among the alumni, are Dr. Thornton Whaling, 1877, Professor of Theology in the Louisville Theological Seminary, Louisville, Ky., who is the oldest alumnus in this election; Dr. W. E. Hill, 1900, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Richmond, Va.; Dr. W. N. Dunn, 1903, eminent surgeon of Atlanta, Ga.; Dr. W. S. Rankin, prominent physician of Charlotte and noted in the two Carolinas; Rev. W. A. McIlwaine, 1915, missionary to Tagan, who is now on furlough in this country, spending his time at Davidson; and of the class of 1912, three members, A. W. White, of Charlotte, lawyer; Dr. George Howard, of Salisbury, superintendent of county schools, and L. H. Smith, of Easley, S. C., banker, lawyer. (Continued on page 8) Galva wey Cage Schedule of 15 Games Seven Games to be Played Here— South Carolina Trip Includes Five Games The first call for varsity basketball practice was issued Monday, although a good many of the men have been out for a week or so. About 20 men are reporting for daily practice, among whom are four letter men from last year: Anderson, Wilson, Harrison, and Simpson. “Dutch” Hengeveld is in charge and is attempting to round the men in shape so that when Coach Monk Younger takes charge he will find his men well ready for him. It has been the custom for several years that Dutch Hengeveld take over the coaching for the first few weeks. The Freshmen have not started regular practice yet but several Freshmen from the class team have been working out daily with the varsity. The games with the Charlotte Monogram Club, Charlotte “Y,” and the University of N. C., are pending, but the schedule as arranged by Manager Carrol is as follows: Dec. 18—Salisbury “Y,” at Davidson. Jan. 10—N. C. State, at Davidson. Feb. 1—Elon, at Davidson. Feb. 2—N. C. State, at Raleigh. Feb. 3—Duke, at Durham. Feb. 5—Guilford, at Davidson. Feb. 12—Lenoir-Rhyne, at Davidson. Feb. 16—U. S. Marines, at Paris Island, S.C. Feb. 17—Citadel, at Charleston, S. C. Feb. 18—Second game with Citadel. Feb. 19—College of Charleston, at Charleston. Feb. 21—University of S. C., at Columbia. Feb. 22—Furman, at Greenville. Feb. 26—Duke, at Davidson. Feb. 28—Citadel, at Davidson. Tex Tilson to be Married Saturday Coach Tex Tilson left Tuesday morning for Roanoke, Va., where he is to be married to Miss Virginia Kite, of that city, on Saturday, December 4th. The announcement of the wedding came as a complete surprise to everyone with the exception of Coach Monk Younger, who prophesied the coming event some time last September. Immediately after the ceremony the couple will leave for an extensive tour, which will include the state of Texas, and Coach Tex's home. The trip will be made in the groom's new Buick coach, which was bought by him with the purpose of making this trip; but never did he let even his best friend, Coach Monk Younger, into the greatest secret of his life. The trip through many of the Southern States and especially through Texas will extend over a month and a half. As a result of this new turn in Tex’s life, we will not have his services until February. He will return to Davidson about the middle of January. He and his bride will stay at one of the town residences; the exact place of their abode has not been determined, as yet. On Tuesday morning Jim Pinkney brought up the matter of taking a collection for the purpose of buying a silver service for the married couple and the suggestion was passed unanimously by the student body. Bill Wood and W. L. Lingle were appointed as a committee to select the silver service to be donated to the bride and groom. The football team has also voted to make a gift to Coach Tex and his wife. The nature of this present has not been divulged to the keenly curious student body. In appreciation for Tex Tilson and his service to the college as associate coach of football and coach of (Continued on page 7) Seventeen Players Are Given Letters On last Monday night at the meeting of the Athletic Council, 17 members of the 1926 Wildcat football team were awarded letters. Four other members of the squad were given service letters, making a total of 21 “D’s” awarded. Of the 17 men receiving letters, only four have not received letters in football formerly. The other 13 men were all members of the 1925 squad with the exception of Boggs. The four men receiving letters were Sims, Ferrel, Christian, and Green. Service letters are awarded to men that go out for the team for four straight years, and yet have not played in a sufficient number of games to make their “D.” Hence, in return for their admirable and earnest endeavors, they are awarded “D’s” in their Senior year. The awarding of these service letters was originated this year and will be selected regularly. At the time of the awarding of letters to the football players, R. H. McIlwaine will receive a varsity letter in return for his services rendered as football manager. This will make a total of 22 “D’s” awarded. Of the 17 players receiving letters, nine will be lost by graduation next year. The following men received letters: J. F. Pinkney, E. F. Bohannon, H. M. Arrowood, (Continued on page 5) Davidson’s Championship Team Wins Seven Games Loses Two and Ties One V. M. I. and Hampden-Sidney Alone Win From Wildcats DEACONS TIE CATS Wake Forest Drops Final Game to leave Davidson Open Road to Title Starting the season with an impressive victory over the Elon Christians and closing it with an even more triumphant defeat of the Duke Blue Devils, the Davidson Wildcats tore through their most successful gridiron schedule in recent years and perhaps of all time to capture the state championship. Seven victories, one tie game, and two defeats were marked up for the Wildcats. All of the leading Carolina teams with the exception of Wake Forest went down before the driving onslaught of the light Davidson aggregation. V. M. I. and Hampden-Sidney, the only Virginia teams on the schedule, refused to be conquered and played on to register victories over their Davidson opponents. Elon came, saw, and was conquered 26-0 in the season’s opener on Richardson field. In that game the Wildcats showed some small part of the power which was to carry them to the state championship. Feminine Players Present Program Under the dictatorship of Miss King, Queens College Dramatic Club presented a varied program of three one-act plays instead of the long play presented last year. The plays presented were the delightful “Mr. Among those that had visited the campus before are Misses Dolly Moore, Anne, Minnie Sil- Braswell,First of the group, “Chrysanthemums,” was a charming Japanese romance with an oriental setting. The second and by far the best was a laughable comedy, “Poor Me,” in which several of the new members of the Dramatic Club were introduced. The last of the presentations was the “Maid of France.” The scene of this one-act play was in the square of a French town before the statue of Jeanne d’Arc, on Christmas Eve, during the World War. All of these plays had been presented in Charlotte several weeks ago with unusual success. There was a larger troupe of players on the program this year than the group which last season appeared. Bob Faysoux Johnston, Noel Walker, Sara and Ethel Verstein, and Ross were among the fifteen players.

The Wildcats scored an initial touchdown over the Wofford Terriers in the first few minutes of play, only to have the latter show a reversal of form and drive a counter over the Davidson goal in equally short order. The drive was short-lived, however, and the final whistle found the “Hill” team leading 24-6 after McConnell had snagged a pass in the final moments of play and run 50 yards for the final score. The Presbyterian College of South Carolina was met and defeated at Rock Hill in a long game.

The editors of the “Davidsonian” attended the presentation by the “Queen Players.” This is the second time this year that the Queens players have given a public presentation. The plays were first presented in Charlotte some time ago and met with much approval and applause there, prompting the “Davidsonian” to bring the club to Davidson to present their offering. The club plans to make a tour of cities.

A drive will be conducted some time during next week to raise the Hangchow Fund, which is pledged each year by the students. A complete canvass will be made of the student body some night during the week, and a special effort will be made to raise the necessary amount in a one-night drive. The money raised for this fund will go for the upkeep of Warren Cox, of the class of ’24, who is now teaching chemistry at Hangchow Christian College, Hangchow, China. When Cox graduated from Davidson, this fund was originated to send him to China to install a department of chemistry in Hangchow College. His entire expenses and salary for the last two years have been paid by the students of Davidson College. About five hundred dollars is needed for the support of Cox in his work in China for the remainder of this year. The goal set by the committee in charge of this drive is one thousand dollars. This will be an average of about two dollars per student, as each Davidson man is expected to respond to this call. The surplus of this fund will go to the work of Edgar Tufts, another Davidson man, at Banner Elk, N.C. Tufts is in charge of the mountain mission work at Banner Elk and is the head of an organization there.

This was the cry of all last week: “Eastward ho!” Professors, students, janitors, and people of all shapes, colors, and sizes took up the cry and set out. Is it necessary to say where they were going and why? Is there a single live human in North Carolina who does not know what happened in Durham last Thursday, a day of real Thanksgiving for Davidson? No, there’s no one in the state who does not know what happened, and there was no one in Davidson who did not expect it to happen. And because they did expect it, the cynosure of all eyes and the destination of all legs was Durham. The great exodus began Wednesday, the day before the game. A number of Juniors and Seniors left early in the day, but the majority of those who left on that day had to wait till after drill. Then there was a mad scramble to see who could get the lead in the “bums’” race. In an incredibly short time, the road to Mooresville was lined with students hopefully yelling for a ride. Their cry was not—“Are you going to Durham?” for of course everyone was going there. But it was—“Have you room for one more?” And there usually was, for everyone was interested in getting as big a number as possible to the game.

The appearance of the “Queen Players” in Davidson was much enjoyed by all of those who attended. These plays were sponsored by the “Davidsonian.”

The Wildcats scored three touchdowns, with Nesbit, Grey, and Mitchell each scoring one. Duke held the Wildcats during the first half but later succumbed to a strong attack. Wildcat stock went over the top last Thursday during the second half of the annual Duke-Davidson Turkey Day mix-up, when Monk Younger’s machine pushed 20 points over the Blue Devils to win, while N.C. State held Wake Forest to a 7-3 score. Thereby Davidson clinched the state championship. Through the first half of the Durham game, anything might have happened. Duke seemed the most aggressive and made three first downs by passes. Left half Frank was tossing the ball where right end Bennett and quarterback Weaver were receiving, and the Wildcat defense was conspicuous by its absence. In this march, four passes were completed for a total of 35 yards. One drive was halted when Weaver went to the 15-yard line off a pass, only to be called back because both teams were off-side. With Duke again on the 15-yard marker, and the Davidson line holding, Weaver elected again to pass. With the grounding of this pass behind the goal line, Duke's drives were over. The Davidson attack was not up to top form in the first half, the feature being Gray's pass to Nesbit for 10 yards.

At the request of the Charlotte Rotary Club, a number of Davidson men participated in the Rotary luncheon in Charlotte on Tuesday noon. Mr. Jackson, Jim Pinkney, Ernest Bohannon, and Jim Appleby each made speeches, and besides music being furnished by a special program, the Jazz Orchestra favored with several selections, and the Glee Club quartet also performed. Pinkney, president of the student body, in speaking about the “Student Government,” stated that the students of Davidson are in complete charge of their activities and not under the parental care of the faculty, as is supposed by some. He stated that the system of student control at Davidson was one of the first established in the South. Ernest Bohannon, who is president of the Athletic Association, spoke concerning “Davidson Athletic Traditions.” He said that clean and good athletes are welcome at Davidson, but they must have an interest in the school and stand well scholastically. J.M. Appleby, secretary of the Y.M.C.A., talked upon “The Y at Davidson.” He told of the earnest religious life of Davidson men, of the “Y,” and of the activities sponsored by it. Mr. Frank L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, spoke of Davidson as “An Institution of Service” and of how it has helped in the past by producing men who render service. He told of how Davidson has assisted in various enterprises as an institution and of the willingness to be of service. The Jazz Orchestra rendered several numbers throughout the program, and music by the quartet was said to be especially good.