THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1926

Mrs. Pinkney (at Washington Duke banquet)—“Here’s a card of thanks.” Jim—“Oh, he just sent her a Love-making and heart-breaking as it is practiced by the fast-stepping youth of today. Prof.—“They always remain light-headed.” modern miss? Don’t Miss This Peppy Treat! MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY “Meet ’em and treat ’em! Love ’em and leave ’em! Off with the old! On with the new!” This is the battle cry of the Mary Had a Little .... Mary had a little, And I hesitate with fear To take the dear girl home While she’s acting so darn queer. “The rent is due tomorrow,” cried the fellow who had worn his pants thin in the seat. A little garment cute, Which is more clothing, Pa declares, When baby goes to bed she wears Than Ma’s new winter suit. Poole—“Not clothes, but I can buy her all the wearing apparel she needs.” Beauty Hint Beauty is now a buy-product. Cannibal Prince—“Am I too late for dinner?” Cannibal King—“Yep, everybody’s eaten.” Fair Damsel—“Yes, love-making is the same as it used to be.” Crawford—“How do you know?” Fr. D—“I just read about a Greek maiden who sat and listened to a lyre all night long.” Guthrie—“The dance floor is awfully crowded.” She—“Oh, but I guess we can wiggle through.” IMPERIAL Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Be careful and help stop this awful waste. INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY EVERY minute $1104 worth of property is consumed by fire and every day 42 persons are burned to death with 46 injured. McALISTER CARSON, Mgr. Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C. Moore’s Tire & Sporting Goods Shop We have all kinds of sporting goods, such as footballs and basketballs. We also have bicycles and tricycles of all kinds. Come Here and Do Your Shopping for the Whole Family The Place to buy your Christmas Goods is Mooresville, N. C. Flapper’s National Anthem Roses are red, violets are blue; Give me a drink and I’ll love you. There’s many a sip in the innocent grip. Inductive Reasoning Marriage is an institution. Marriage is love. Love is blind. Therefore, marriage is an institution for the blind. Hudgins (looking at his pictures)—“These ears remind me of the front fenders on an automobile.” Our Trade Undertakers report that business is doing a dead press- ing, with things looking black. Tailors, with the market all sewed up. Leather dealers are arrested in their skin game, The flower business has a rosy outlook. Womack—“They are on each side of a vacuum tank.” Ode to Fresh Grever’s Mustache (By his best girl) Twinkle, twinkle, little hair, How I wonder what you air, Up above your lip so brave; Why in the devil don’t you shave? How I admire the pin! Its head keeps it from going too far. Biology Prof.—“Why is man superior to other animals?” Vance—“Well sir; he’s made so that his dogs keep his calves away from his corn patch.” Fresh Patsvicgec—“I really mustgo; if I stay a moment longer I'll be tempted to kiss you.” 

Charlotte—“There, now, and you promised you wouldn't rush off tonight.”

Mrs. Doctor Prof.—“My dressmaker wrote and told him that she refused to make me any more dresses until my account was paid.”

Visitor—“And what did he say?”

ALL-SOUTHERN HERE

Jim Pinkney, Hebe end, on the Davidson Championship team this year, is the only member of the Wildcat squad who has received recognition of his ability as a player by winning a place on an all-southern pick. The Columbia State gave Pinkney a place on the third all-southern team in its pick last Sunday.

Take unto yourself a pipe and then...

If you've just become wedded to the sweetest pipe in the world... (or even if you've celebrated your silver jubilee) rivet this gem of wisdom in your old fedora—and don’t forget it: Any paluka can get a pipe... but it takes a good man to keep ’er and keep ‘er happy! Be kind to your pipe. And remember: no trouble ever arises between a man and his pipe once there’s a little Granger in the home. Granger’s so mild—such fine old Burley tobacco. And the famous “Wellman Method” makes it so mellow... It puts you on top of the world—happy and carefree. Being rough cut, too, Granger burns so slow your pipe never gets “all het up.” It keeps cool and sweet... always! Then Granger makes it easy to support a pipe. For packed simply and economically it is most reasonably priced. In fact, no man need deny his pipe the joy and comfort of Granger.

GRANGER ROUGH CUT

The half-pound vacuum tin is forty-five cents, the foil-pouch package is ten cents.

Granger Rough Cut is made by the Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company.

The selection was made by a Georgian sports writer. Pinkney was also given a place on the all-state team by Marvin Ritch of the Charlotte News, but he failed to claim a berth on the composite all-state choice. Bohannon was named as end on this team. Pinkney is a native of West Virginia and has played end on the Davidson team for the past three years. He now resides in Colorado.

FOR THAT TASTE OF HOME COOKING

S&W Cafeteria
CHARLOTTE
GREENSBORO
ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

On Your Way Home
New York Cafe
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
29 West Trade St.

New Victor Records Out for Friday

“Because I Love You”

Don’t miss these---Come in soon---and hear them!

Nat Shilkret and the Victor Orchestra
With Vocal Refrain.

Philip Spitalny and His Orchestra
With Vocal Refrain.

Jean Goldkette and His Orchestra
Because I Love You---Waltz.
Just a Little Longer---Fox Trot.
I'd Rather Be the Girl in Your Arms—Fox Trot.
Sunday---Fox Trot.
With Vocal Refrain.
Hello Blue Bird---Fox Trot.
With Vocal Chorus.
Hugs and Kisses---Fox Trot.
With Vocal Refrain.
Adeste Fideles (Oh Come, All Ye Faithful)
Grand Opera
Silent Night---Grand Opera.
Meadow Lark.
With Piano.
Kiss Your Little Baby Good-Night.
Art Landry and His Orchestra
Mark Andrews
With Piano.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Music Dept.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Correll-Gosden