The Davidsonian
Vol. XII | Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., April 8, 1926
No. 26

Davidson Athletes Win Three Contests During Holidays
Lenoir-Rhyne Defeated as Wildcats Stage Big Rally in Eighth Inning
Moose Pitches Brilliantly Until the Eighth Frame
WILDCATS HIT WELL
Woodham and Vance Lead Wildcats in Exciting Rally in Last Inning

In one of the best baseball games of the present season, Davidson defeated Lenoir-Rhyne last Thursday by the score of 6 to 3. Moose, the visitor's pitcher, hurled great ball until the eighth frame, when the Davidson batters awoke and started a batting bee from which six runs resulted. The game was the first feature on the Junior Speaking program. Until the fatal inning, the Lutheran pitcher had held the Wildcats scoreless. Woodham led the Wildcats at bat, garnering three singles out of four attempts, while Vance followed with a single and a triple. Owl, the Lenoir right fielder, nailed a couple out of four tries, one for three bases. Huie twirled for Davidson for the first eight innings, Laird being sent to the box from right field to retire the side in the ninth. Both teams played good defensive games, only two errors being made by each nine. Box score and summary:

Lenoir-Rhyne AB R H PO A E
Clemner, 3b 4 0 0 0 3 0
Whisenhunt, cf 4 1 1 2 3 0
(Continued on page 6)

Univ. of Pittsburgh Defeats Davidson
The debating team from the University of Pittsburgh defeated the Davidson debating team here last Wednesday night. The subject of the debate was: “Resolved, That the government should control and operate the coal mines.” The decision of the judges was in Pittsburgh's favor, two to one. Much keen wit, satire, and forceful argument was presented in the debate and both sides fought hard for the decision. The University of Pittsburgh upheld the negative side of the question, while the Davidson team fought for the affirmative. The Pittsburgh team had defeated the team from Lenoir the night before and continued its conquests of its Southern tour by sweeping through the Wildcat team. The debating team members were Frederick Hamlin, Leo Shapir, and Norman Mattis. Each of these men showed more than exceptional ability in forensic lines. Their ready satire and their analytical destruction of the affirmative arguments aided a great deal in rendering the decision in favor of the negative. Shapir had the best argument and speech for the negative and was also very good in his rebuttal. On the Davidson team were R. L. Parker, B. C. Ratchford, and Henry Powell. All of these showed much preparation and remarkable ability both in oratory and argumentative lines. Parker is an experienced debater, having represented Davidson on the team against Wake Forest last year. His speech was one of the best of the evening and his careful and accurate answers to the questions of the negative showed that he had his subject well in hand. The arguments of Ratchford and Powell (Continued on page 8)

Cabaret Scene Proves Brilliant Climax to Joyous Festivities of Junior Week
Beautiful Decorative Effects Add Beauty to the Occasion

The entertainment for Saturday night of Junior Speaking has always been in charge of the Junior class, and this year the class of '27 provided an original and unusually good program at the gym. The gym has never been so well decorated. In the center was a large lighted dome from which crepe streamers in orange and black were stretched to the side walls and from there to the floor. The room was specially wired for the occasion so that there were several lighting effects for different parts of the program. The entrance to the building was also decorated with bright lights and signs, and a special latticed entrance. The entertainment was one that has never been given here before, an imitation of a French cabaret with its bright lights and tango dancing. The gym was filled with tables, and excellent refreshments were served to the guests by the members of the Junior class between the different parts of the program. The Glee Club orchestra, “the Davidsonians,” furnished most of the music during the evening, but the musical part of the program was varied by numbers by the mandolin and guitar club and the quartet. The feature of the program was a Spanish tango dance by Miss Lucy Heath, of Charlotte, and Mr. Jim Price, formerly of Montgomery, Ala. The music by the Glee Club orchestra and a saxophone solo by “Tootie” Crayton, accompanied by P. B. Frye, drew lots of applause, as did also the Mandolin and Guitar club. The quartet, composed of W. O. Green, D. G. Wilson, J. S. Foster, and D. M. Calhoun, sang from time to time during the evening, and “The Song Without a Name” by them, in which Bill Green’s yodeling (Continued on page 3)

Officers Elected by Rising Seniors
Senior class elections, held during the past two weeks, have resulted in the choice of various members of the present junior class to offices of honor for next year. The election of Joe McConnell, of Davidson, N. C., to the class presidency of the rising senior class was announced in a recent issue of The Davidsonian, but since that time the members of the rising senior class have elected a number of other class officers and student councilmen. For the office of vice-president, there were a number of nominations, but when the final ballot was cast and counted, Harry G. Goodykoontz, of Bluefield, W. Va., was declared winner, with W. T. Covington as runner-up. Goodykoontz has been prominent in various class and college activities since entering Davidson. Winning notice by his work on the athletic field during his freshman year, and continuing his athletic accomplishments on through two successful seasons on the track and on the basketball court, Harry has now reached an enviable position among the leading Davidson athletes. As secretary of the Y. M. C. A. this year, he has taken an outstanding part in the religious activities on the campus. Tom Anderson, of Bristol, Tenn., was declared secretary of the rising senior class after two ballots had eliminated all other candidates. His closest rival for the position was Ronald Wilson, of Charleston, W. Va. Anderson is a letter man in basketball and is also a contender for honors on the cinder path. He has taken a prominent part in various class activities. (Continued on page 8)

Davidson Beats Wofford Cinder Path Stars With Forty-eight Point Lead
Time of Dash Men Slowed by Heavy Track
ANDERSON IS STAR
Wildcats Take First Place in Eleven Out of Fourteen Events

The Davidson track team defeated the Wofford cinder path stars in Spartanburg last Friday by the score of 89 to 37. The Wildcats had an easy time in winning the meet, garnering eleven out of fourteen first places in the program. The squad was in good form, taking a number of seconds and thirds as well as firsts to bring the total score for the Wildcats higher. Captain Anderson was high point man for the Wildcats and for the meet also, with 16 points to his credit. The meet was held at the country grounds at Spartanburg and the track was a little heavier and slower than the Davidson boys were accustomed to. This slowed the time of the dashes and hurdles somewhat. But this did not keep the Wildcats from winning six firsts in the track events, while the Terriers were winning two. Captain “Red” Anderson, of the Wildcat team, finished first in the 120 hurdles, pole (Continued on page 3)

Harllee Branch Wins in Junior Speaking Contest
D. G. Stewart Given Honorable Mention—Four Speakers Compete for Oratorical Honors

Harllee Branch Jr. of Atlanta, Ga. was the winner in the Junior Oratorical contest held in Shearer Hall as the opening number on the Junior Speaking program, last Friday night at 8:00 o'clock. The subject of the winning oration was “A Newer South,” and was full of praise for the wonderful industrial and social development of the South in recent years. Branch delivered his oration in a delightful manner, holding the attention of his audience throughout hisSpeech and winning the approbation of his hearers by years, if his choice of words and the quality of his voice and delivery. There were three other speakers on the program. They were: Donald H. G. Stewart, of Dothan, Ala., who spoke on “The Crisis of a Lifetime”; Leighton M. McCutcheon, of Bennettsville, S.C., who condemned a modern “Menace to Society”; and C. W. Williams, of Montgomery, Ala., who extolled Woodrow Wilson as “A Man of God.” These men were chosen in a previous competition. The oration of Don Stewart, entitled “The Crisis of a Lifetime,” was awarded honorable mention by the judges and was a well-worked-out presentation of the facts of life. Stewart, in a forcible manner, pointed out the necessity of a young man’s choice early in life as to whether he would follow after the banner of Fear or that of Christ. He was accorded much applause. I. M. McCutcheon, speaking on “A Menace to Society,” called attention to the fact that modern tendencies toward the overthrow of established religion were not only destroying the roots of morality but were contaminating thought. His speech was a fine defense for the much-criticized fundamentalists. C. W. Williams, with his oration on “A Man of God,” gave one of the most pleasing addresses of the evening. A new conception of Woodrow Wilson, as the master of destinies in the recent World War, was well received by the audience, as Williams called (Continued on page 8).

H. M. Austin Wins Magazine Office

In the election for the editorship of the Davidson College Magazine for the next year, held just before the holidays, H. M. Austin, of Laredo, Tex., was chosen for the position. Austin, along with J. H. Caligan, of McCall, S.C., and W. O. Ogden, of Mobile, Ala., was nominated by the Student Council, which was given the authority by the student body some time ago to make these nominations. As the magazine was discontinued last fall, the local chapter of the Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity was invested with the power to issue a spring number. All three of these men have taken an active part in literary lines since entering Davidson. Austin is one of the most prolific writers on the campus. He was elected a member of Sigma Upsilon this spring and last fall accepted a bid to Omega Phi Alpha, formerly the philosophy club. In his freshman year, he was elected to the Reporter’s Club as a reward for his work on the Davidsonian. He has had several articles in the magazine in the past. Caligan is the outstanding poet in the student body. Last year, as a student at the University of South Carolina, one of his nature poems was given honorable mention in the Stratford Anthology of college verse and won a prize offered by the Poetry Society of South Carolina. He has contributed many poems to the columns of various college publications. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon. Ogden, a member of Sigma Upsilon, has served on the staffs of both the magazine and the annual. He was one of the Board of Editors on the staff of Sanity Rare, the recent publication of the Junior class in connection with the festivities of Junior Speaking.

Carolina Stages Rally in Ninth Frame But is Beaten by Davidson, 9-8

Large Crowd Sees Thrilling Game at Salisbury

A desperate ninth-inning rally, featured by two singles, a triple by Mackie, and two errors, netted Carolina three runs, but Davidson emerged with the annual Easter Monday classic on the long end of a 9-8 score. The game was played at the Colonial baseball park in Salisbury and was attended by a colorful crowd of nearly three thousand. The Tar Heels took the lead in the first frame as the result of Sides’ triple and Hatley’s sacrifice fly, and added another score in the second from Mackie’s double and Sharpe's single. The lead was overcome in the third when Vance lifted a fastball over the left-field fence with one man on base, and after another had scored, Davidson pounded Poyner from the box in the fourth inning. Moreland was sent to the showers in the sixth, after running the score up to nine runs. Sapp finished the game and pitched nicely. Laird hurled a beautiful game, keeping the hits he allowed well scattered until the ninth frame, when Carolina, trailing by a 9-5 score, sent three men home and Laird to the showers. Tenny led off with a single, was safe at second on an error, swiped third, and scored on Sides’ single. An error and a fielder’s choice sent Sides to third, but he was caught (Continued on page 3).

Junior Speaking Program Featured by Sanity Rare Wins Praise of Readers

The Junior Week issue of “Sanity Rare,” sparkling with wit, overflowing with humor, and chock-full of rib-ticklers, was distributed by the staff at the big entertainment in the gymnasium last Saturday evening and was well received by the hundreds of visitors and students who were fortunate enough to receive free copies. It was a fitting sequel to the junior publication of last year, and its many readers have been loud in praise of its contents. Due to the fact that the editors were anxious to keep within the bounds set by a faculty committee on censorship, the magazine was given the very catchy title of “Purity Number,” and a number of the illustrations and jokes printed within its covers carried out the idea of this unique title. The magazine was practically free from all jokes and puns of a vulgar or suggestive nature, and its pages were not burdened with offensive personal references. A four-color cover design, the work of Miss Alberta Austin, of Mobile, Ala., added a touch of color and beauty to the magazine. The cover was an artistic representation of a Spanish maiden strumming the chords of a guitar, and the background effects added vividness to the main figures by contrast. Illustrations by numerous students were carried at appropriate intervals within the pages, and all material was arranged in an artistic manner. A unique feature, entitled “A Western Union,” the work of Harllee Branch, Jr., and a story, “College Life by One Who Has Never Been There,” whose author was not known, were the two longest (Continued on page 2).

Glee Club Program Proves Interesting to Visitors

On Friday evening, the Davidson College Glee Club appeared in concert at Shearer Hall before a large audience of holiday revelers. A well-balanced program was presented, and the excellent work of the club as a whole was so remarkable that the absence of several of its important members was hardly noticeable. The opening number, “College Ties,” gave a pleasant foretaste of the rest of the program. The two selections by the symphony orchestra which followed this, though rendered somewhat constrainedly, were remarkable for their excellence. The singing of J. H. Caligan, the baritone soloist of the glee club, who followed the orchestra, was very clear and impressive. He responded with an encore, arranged for the occasion. The jazz orchestra, in its two appearances, fully lived up to its reputation. Although handicapped by the absence of “Tootie” Crayton, it received the most applause of any of the numbers. The rendition by the whole Glee Club after this of “The Beetle and the Flower” was well worthy of notice. The difficult tempo of the piece was perfectly preserved, and the many rests in it were carried out in an artistic manner. The mandolin club scored a hit, not only by their unusual and unpremeditated method of entrance but by their excellent harmony and cheerful appearance. The club appeared a second time in place of the scheduled saxophone solo by Tootie Crayton. One of the features of the evening was the regular Glee Club quartet, who quite captured the audience with their three selections, of which “Dinah” was perhaps the (Continued on page 6).