THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4, 1926

3

A stone of many! The others are fully as desirable—footwear for any requirement, any price. You are cordially invited to come and look ’em over! On Display By

The stag at eve had drunk his fill, And turkey-trotted round the grill; He could not even play strip-poker, Forsooth, it was the Senior smoker.

Mr. A. M. Shimmon at Honor Store INCORPORATED — REG. U.S. PAT. OFF. Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark, and Philadelphia. Address for Mail Orders, 193 Fulton St, New York City.

CHEST COLDS Redden the skin by the use of hot applications. Then massage briskly with Vicks, spread Vicks on thickly and cover with hot flannel cloths. VICKS VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly.

Never tell a girl you love her. If she believes you, there are only three courses—marriage, suicide, or breach of promise. If she doesn’t believe you, try another woman.

Here lies the body of Sophomore Houck, He laughed at his girl when her teeth fell out.

ON EXAM He had the old prof “spotted.” It really was a shame. He sat down then right calmly, And coolly wrote his name. And then his groans grew heavy, A tear his paper blots, For he was like a leopard— He could not change his “spots.”

OUR LATEST SONG HIT “Ten Knights in a Barred Room, or Pinched for Speeding.”

RALPH’S "MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS"

Several butchers down in Birmingham, Ala., have been told to mend their ways. Skating rinks might sometimes be aptly called “Landing Fields.”

Johnston's Barber Shop Just beyond the Bank.

Dealer—“And you say this parrot I sold you uses improper language?” Senior—“Unbearable; he split an infinitive yesterday.”

SPRING FOOTBALL He was jealous, violently jealous. No wonder, then, that when he heard the opposing quarterback sing out, “1-4-6-7” he leaped through the line and strangled him. It was his girl’s telephone number.

“Any student can do as he pleases except for his conscience, his roommate, the student council, and the police.”

Probably one reason for the popularity of WRIGLEY’S is that it lasts so long and returns such great dividends for so small an outlay. It keeps teeth clean, breath sweet, appetite keen, digestion good. Fresh and full-flavored always in its wax-wrapped package.

Whew we don’t sleep well "He's Got Your Number!"

THE WEEK AFTER THE SEMESTER BEFORE A man will not admit that he’s a poor judge of women till he’s married, nor a poor judge of liquor till he’s blind.

Fellows: You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, Davidson, N. C.

As a man thinks, so is he. Some people never are.

Mrs. Prof.—“Has the professor had his breakfast?” Maid—“I don’t know, ma’am.” Mrs.—"Then ask him.” Maid—“I did, but he doesn’t know either.”

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

Some students go to the movies at the gym to smoke cigarettes, others to practice reading aloud.

Prof.—“Is the world flat or round?” Stude—“Neither, sir.” Prof.—"What is it, then?” Stude—"It's crooked.”

Student—“How do you sell your limburger cheese?” Dealer—“I've often wondered myself.”

Prof—“Can you tell me anything about the Restoration?” Stude—“No, I've never heard anything about it.” Prof—"What? You never heard of being beheaded?” Stude—"Oh, yes, you mean John the Baptist?”

Drink the rest to Susie Gay, She knows her stuff from Z to A; Her dates are full until next May, For she was coached on Channing Way, So drink ‘er down to Susie Gay.

Some people are so lazy that even if they lived in a land of milk and honey they’d complain of having to milk the cow and tend the bees.

Most fellows had rather lose $10 on a horse race than a nickel through a hole in a trousers pocket.

99 44-100 PER CENT TRUTH It isn’t what a girl says that counts, but how she looks when she says it.

Lots of men get into jail by mistake but usually it’s their own mistake.

Stude—“Have you any balcony seats?” Clerk—“Yes, but we still have some fine orchestra seats left.” Stude—“Who’s buying these tickets?”

“By the way, have you heard my last joke?” “I hope so.”

Have you noticed how many fine men Davidson has been turning out lately?

“My dad is an Elk, a Moose, a Lion, and an Eagle.” “Gee, what does it cost to see him?”

Mrs. Blank—“Sheep are certainly animals, aren’t they?” Mr. Blank—“Yes, my lamb.”

A student doesn’t have to know anything about electricity to wire home for money.

A WONDER If Plato could shimmy, could Aristotle?a stag party last night, dearie.” 
“Yes, I heard you staggering as you came in.”

The only consolation in being knock-kneed is that no one can accuse you of being bowlegged.

Mrs. Mosstongue—“Henry, you were talking in your sleep last night.”
Mr. M.—“Well, pardon me for interrupting you, my dear.”

Where is the bum who said that the college boys get such masculine voices from waving their hankeys at the football games?

Most women find out that their six-cylinder husbands are runabouts after they are married.

Warren Ogden was broke. He wired home: “No mon; no fun; your son.”
His Dad replied: “Too bad; so sad; your Dad.”

It’s a long line of bull that has no ending.

THE SMALL COLLEGE

They call them “freshwater colleges.” They're small compared with some of our monster schools; their enrollment generally ranges from 200 to 1,000, their buildings and equipment often as new or as spacious as one might wish, and their instructors (like most other college professors) are woefully underpaid.

As like as not, the only way the rest of them is when one of them accidentally possesses a football team of unusual excellence and beats a Princeton, a Cornell, a Michigan, or a Notre Dame.

The smaller college, as a general thing, seems to offer a more favorable atmosphere for all of this than the large one. This is true even though it usually has poorer professors than the large college. Distracting outside activities are apt to be fewer. Less fuss is made about the football team. There are fewer student-owned automobiles. Dances and parties occupy a smaller place on the calendar.

The man from the small college probably won't be as snappy a dresser as the big university man. Perhaps he won't be as well up on the latest shows and the newest dances. Very likely he'll never make as good a bond salesman. But taking it by and large, he may know just a little bit more about how to use his gray matter. And, consequently, he'll be a slightly more valuable citizen.

And we call them “freshwater colleges” and let it go at that. But very, very often, when you look up a prominent “Who's Who," you'll find that he was St. Mary's '09, or Beloit '92, or Swarthmore '88, or Carleton '06. Somehow, there's a tremendous percentage of these small colleges represented in “Who's Who.”

Years ago we Americans, as a nation, conceived the idea that to be valuable a thing must be large and wealthy. So we set great store by our big universities, with their 10,000 students or more, and ignore the rest. And that's where we make a great mistake.—Charlotte News.

RUMOR CONCERNING ATHLETICS IS FALSE

The rumor that students failing the same subject for two years would not be allowed to participate in athletics has proven to be unfounded. This rumor has been abroad upon the campus for several weeks and a reporter of The Davidsonian was dispatched to verify the fact.

Upon being interviewed, Dr. Douglas, graduate manager of athletics, stated that he knew nothing whatsoever of the ruling. As far as he knew, he said, neither the faculty nor athletic association had passed such a ruling. Mr. Hengeveld, the registrar, stated that the faculty had passed no such ruling and that such did not exist. He also said that such a ruling had been under consideration of the S. I. A. A. during the past year. However, the ruling has never been adopted.

Twenty-seven women are included in the membership of the National Academy of Design, which is the recognized art authority in the United States.

IMPERIAL Program Week Beginning FEB. 8TH

Monday and Tuesday
“LIGHTNIN’” from the famous stage play

ARTCRAFT THEATRE
Mooresville, N. C.

THURSDAY, FEB. 4
Feature, “East Lynne.” Comedy, “Say It With Flour.”

4 days starting Wednesday
NORMA TALMADGE ---IN--- “GRAUSTARK” with Eugene O’Brien. Her Biggest Picture

FRIDAY, FEB. 5
“Cheap Kisses.” Feature, “Andy’s Stump Speech.” Comedy.

C. L. GRESHAM, Mgr.

DON’T FORGET TO REMEMBER
February 14, St. Valentine’s Day
Send her a box of Hollingsworth’s Candy
WHITE DRUG COMPANY