THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 14, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
"The Livest Wire on the Hill"

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. .......... Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES ............ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
WILLIAM G. POTEAT ............ Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN ............ Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS ............ Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB ............ Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY ............ Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN ............ Exchange Editor
HUGH C. SHIRLEY ............ Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN ............ Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON ............ Assignment Editor
P. F. JONES ............ Feature Editor
LEON L. BOSS ............ Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS ............ Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD ............ Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE ............ Assistant Business Manager
J. A. McALPINE ............ Subscription Manager
V. L. ALBRIGHT ............ Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY ............ Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KANI
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
A. N. BROWN
R. H. McILWAINE
J. F. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH
A. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD
B. WILSON
J. R. WEAVER
B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

Speaking of the movement of youth from the farm to college, we think it should be restricted to about 35 miles an hour.

A man who falls never has any rivals.

A mistake is only made worse by misstatement.

A man in love with himself will have no rivals.

College students can agree on almost anything except religion and the size of hailstones.

Read Warren Ogden’s Open Forum article on this page.

The Guilford Quakers undoubtedly had the Wildcats quaking for a while during the third quarter last Saturday, but after the last whistle had blown, they departed from the lair of the scrapping 'cats looking as dejected as their Blue-Lawed brethren of Quaker City.

Who’s located the meek little freshie who turned to a sophomore after the O. D. K. tapping ceremony the other morning and remarked: “I don’t see why they didn’t tap me, I was willing to join?”

CHEER UP, PLEASE!

The success of the Cheerios, an organization of two hundred and fifty loyal sons of the University of North Carolina, in reviving student enthusiasm at athletic contests, calls to our mind the eminent need of a revival of this sort on our own campus.

Successful athletic teams depend to a large extent on the unified support of the student body. Eleven men, giving every ounce of their strength, may work wonders in overcoming teams that are of equal weight and power; but, when the time comes for that team to score against odds, something more than the strength of the players is needed. That element can be supplied only by the student in the stands, and by them, only when they enter into the task of cheering with whole-hearted enthusiasm and vigor.

The Cheerios at Carolina will take their seats at every athletic contest, wearing Blue and White uniforms and carrying small megaphones. By their example, they hope to increase the interest of the students in all of the yells, drills, and stunts, in such a way as to register new enthusiasm and support for the Carolina teams. Their purpose is a worthy one, and the success with which their efforts have been crowned is a surety that they are on the right trail.

Here at Davidson, where the “Wildcat spirit” has gradually dwindled away until today it is hardly more than a cherished myth, we are in need of a similar organization. Our spirit is frankly dead! Ask the cheerleaders. They are in a position to know just how little enthusiasm is being registered among the students. They will tell you that a reform is not only needed, but that if it doesn’t come soon, it will be too late!

It is discouraging to them to sit on the bench and urge their men to fight for a bunch of fellows who show so little interest in the way things are going. Coach Carl Prause at Citadel has said, “Some have the opinion that a team plays for a coach, for the school, for the crowd or for the alumni. My point of view is that it plays more for the student body than for any other reason.” If the Citadel coach has made the proper diagnosis, it is time the student body was waking up to its responsibility.

The absurd idea that freshmen should bear the brunt of the yelling has become too prevalent of late. Upperclassmen should consider it a privilege to lead their younger college-mates in this activity, and should realize that their example will go far toward securing more unified cheering among the new men.

Various reasons have been assigned for the lack of spirit among students at Davidson. Principal among these is the idea that we have depended in the past too much on “manufactured pep,” and that we have attempted to secure that sort of enthusiasm by numerous rallies. It seems generally agreed that we are holding too many “pep” meetings, and that this fact is to some extent responsible for the lack of life at the games. The cheering at the games, following these numerous pep meetings, has proved an anti-climax in too many instances.

Clean, wholesome rooting by a united student body, enthusiastic and whole-heartedly supporting their team is a greater factor than the average observer may realize. The example set at Carolina commends to us the idea of a revival of student enthusiasm.

SPECIALIZATION—PLUS

“If a man does only his own specified work, it is seldom he gets a chance to do anything worthwhile. He must do his own work, plus; if he is to get anywhere,” Albert Terhune reminds us in one of his recent feature articles.

More justified than any other so-called criticism of the modern college graduate is the charge that he is too intensively specialized. Scholars of the old type bewail the passing of the well-rounded man. At times these advocates of classical culture weaken their stand by failing to see any advantage whatsoever in specialization.

Extremists on either side of the question will discover an arbiter in Glenn Frank, for the past year president of the University of Wisconsin. President Frank, journalist and educator, believes “The student in the average institution is today in danger of falling victim to either of two dangers—the danger of suicidal smattering, or the danger of suicidal specialization.”

To remedy this fault he has already installed an experimental college within the regular college of arts and sciences at the University of Wisconsin. The plan is to give the student a well-proportioned course in general culture the first two years. If any man or woman so desires, a diploma will be awarded them when this first unit of work is completed. Those whose attendance at college is a matter of parental compulsion will welcome the chance to be out, and the college will be benefited by their leaving. Those students who wish to specialize in some art, science, or profession will remain two years and build their special scholarship upon the cultural foundation laid down the first two years.

From a utilitarian viewpoint the product of such a college would be highly acceptable. Even in this age of universal specialization men realize that a comprehensive and intelligent understanding of the whole is necessary to the most successful functioning of the part. And the specialist with a one-man job may become a benefactor of his fellowman if his education is built on the plan of a pyramid—a broad base of general culture, tapering more and more to a fine point of specialization. For, acting in accordance with his training, he will reach out and take upon himself details of other jobs than his own. This relief of his fellowman will permit the latter to attain greater proficiency in his narrow and minor field.

Glenn Frank’s experiment sounds interesting at any rate.

Is Day: The recent action of the Student Council at the University of North Carolina which led to the suspension of two students for “conduct tending toward hazing” is to be commended. Not only is hazing undesirable from the standpoint of collegiate discipline and well-being, but it is unlawful under North Carolina statutes. Such punishment as was inflicted by the University’s student council is both deserved and invited by those students who still seek a thrill in imposing upon their younger and less sophisticated fellow-students.

Is Christianity Worthwhile?
(AN OPEN-FORUM DISCUSSION)

In an age of Pragmatism we cannot but question the value of every part of civilization—its value today and not in some age long forgotten. Such questioning will have one of two effects; it will help...to destroy that which is useless or detrimental or it will show the real worth of that which has a right to abide. The result, therefore, is definitely based on the true value of that which is brought up for trial. In no case can such a testing be unfortunate, provided those who sit in judgment are sincere and just. Christianity is at the bar of Justice. What is to be said for and against the Defendant? First, there must be an exact statement of who is on trial. There has long been a confusion of terms in this connection; Christianity, to some, is the collection of the teachings of Jesus Christ interpreted by each individual for himself; to others, this vague term represents a system of religious dogma. In this brief article let us consider only the latter, the Church as it is termed by some. It is indeed interesting to note that the majority of those who call themselves Christians do not consider more than a small minority of their other self-termed Christians as followers of the true faith, nor do they feel that it would be right for the rest to join in eternal happiness. Songs have been sung, sermons preached, and prayers made concerning the Church as “one foundation.” On even moderately close examination, this proves an absurdity. When Moslem troops have to be called in to separate Orthodox and Roman Christians, can we sanely talk of a united Church? When one branch of the Church tears members of another branch limb from limb because of a difference in interpretation, can a moderately intelligent man say that “the Church is one foundation?” Furthermore, we cannot deceive ourselves into believing that all this died at the end of Queen Elizabeth’s reign. And we cannot blind ourselves to the point of believing that such feeling is found only in “darkest” Europe. Protestantism has been, from its birth, schismatic; and there seems to be no radical change in policy today. In fact, there seems a pending division at the present moment. Unquestionably the so-called Christianity, which is better termed the Church, has failed hopelessly to follow the example and teachings of its supposed leader in tolerance. From the Orient comes a question which must be answered—“Was the World War a result of your Christianity?” It was started by the so-called Christian Nations of the World and both sides supported their armies by Scriptural references. Both of the belligerents prayed to the same God that their own sons might be victorious—the cost of which victory was inevitably the death of other sons. And Europe weltered in the blood of six continents—because self-termed Christian nations disagreed. Perhaps the Church did not definitely begin this unspeakable orgy of blood; but were there not flags hung in every Church edifice, were there not sermons preached from every pulpit that condoned the war, was not this atrocity considered almost a holy war? If the Son of Man preached brotherly love, the Church went sadly astray in the mad years of the early twentieth century. England, the great exponent of Protestant Christianity, has given us a noteworthy example in her treatment of inferior races. We are not discussing Russia or Spain whose interpretations of the Christian faith we question—but England, our Mother in blood and in Faith. Of course, the Imperial system can be defended by talk of the advantages which accrue to the native populations—but what a defense! Was it to aid the highway department of India that wars without number have been fought? Industrialism has no more snow-like record than does Imperialism. Strikes, shut-outs, starvation, these are results of the industrial system of Christian lands. Militarism, Industrialism, Imperialism—these are the foundation stones of Christian Civilization and every one is bathed in blood. Christianity stands at the bar, and a sentence must be rendered. If the teachings of the God-Man of Judea is the test, Christianity must be damned as the world’s greatest failure. It may have done a hundred good deeds but it has failed in the supreme test. What, then, is to be done? If the so-called Christian conception of God is no nearer to the face Jesus Christ revealed to us than is the image of Allah, what are we to do? Are we to throw the whole system away and gain no better substitute? It is not my purpose to state a dogmatic solution, but at present it seems to me that there is but one way out of this labyrinth—such a course is to throw aside all the dogmas of dead ecclesiasts, to forget the traditions and false theories that hide the truth, to leave out of consideration all the divisions and prejudices, and to seek the real meaning of a Book, forgotten in much reading. The solution of the problem lies in losing sight of Hildebrand, Luther, and Calvin, and in gaining a vision of the Christ.

W. C. OGDEN.

Inquiring Reporter

Collegiate Chatter

For the past many years Davidson has been playing practically the same teams in football. Would it not be better to change the schedule, and make an arrangement that would do Davidson justice?

Bob Keel: I think it would help Davidson to drop some of the teams that they have been playing, such as Guilford and P. C. and in their place run in teams such as Washington and Lee, or Georgia Tech. For if we were to lose to them, by a small score, it would be better than beating others we have been playing.

Laudon Williams: It would be wise to cut out P. C., first of all, playing one South Carolina team, such as the University, in its place. Then, the team should take a distant trip, to play some recognized team, for the advertisement, if nothing else.

Spike McGhee: It seems that our team is of such caliber to warrant better contracts than they have been having. Larger teams, such as Georgia Tech, or V. P. I. ought to be substituted in place of the small state teams we have on the regular schedule.

Dick Grey: Davidson would do well to play Georgia Tech. I think we could stack up fairly well against them, and should we put them in the place of P. C., it would make a name for Davidson.

Sam Coker: It would be better for Davidson to play larger, and better-known teams, for as long as we play mediocre teams, ours will be the same, but stiffer opposition would make Davidson build up a stronger team.

John Kugler: Our first step should be to drop P. C. But we need the other small games to rest up the team between the more important games. A gradual increase of bigger games would make the team stronger each year.

Charley Harrison: Our schedule ought to remain the same, except for the first four games. These should be: Richmond College, P. C., Wofford, and Clemson—especially Clemson as it is a Conference team.

John Foster: I think it would be a great thing for Davidson to enter the Southern Conference, and cut out such games as Guilford and P. C. Ask the coaches. They will tell you that.

SAYS THE GOVERNOR OF NORTH CAROLINA TO THE GOVERNOR OF SOUTH CAROLINA

The Emory Wheel, from Emory University, hands the University of North Carolina a hot one in the following comment: “The Tar Heel announces that students who drink on or off the campus will be punished by student council. Maybe this accounts for its other announcement that there are more than forty unclaimed scholarships in the president’s office awaiting their proper claimants.”

SUNDAY SPORTS

Members of the freshmen class at Roanoke College were lined up before the dormitories there last Sunday morning for a “Shoe Scrimmage,” this being a traditional ceremony in the lives of all Roanoke College freshies, says the Brackety Ack. The new men were barefooted, and their shoes and socks were tied together in a great heap across the campus. At the signal “go,” the freshies limped across the gravel walks and grabbed for their shoes in the tangled mass of footwear. After the shoes had been salvaged by rightful owners, the freshies lined up and were marched off to church. A spirit of reverence, no doubt, prevailed throughout the festivities.

THE GIBSON GIRL

Mrs. Charles Dana Gibson, and Buck Langhorne, sister and brother of Lady Nancy Astor, the Virginian member of the English Parliament, visited William and Mary College last week while on an automobile tour of Tidewater, Virginia, according to an item appearing in The Flat Hat. Mrs. Gibson is the original “Gibson Girl,” the pictures of whom helped to make her husband famous as one of America’s great artists.

MORE SUFFRAGETTES

Agnes Scott College now boasts a League of Women Voters all its own, declares the Agonistic, the purpose of which is to develop in the undergraduates an interest in civic affairs that will enable them to better serve their various communities.