THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1926

“Isn’t it strange, Lancelot, that this beautiful garden should smell of ham?”
“You must remember, Guinevere, that we are in the Sandwich Islands.”

It’s not what the girls know that worries us, but where they learned it.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5059 Residence, 19375
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Telephones
12 South Tryon Street
Office 3171 Res. 3419-W
Over Garibaldi & Bruns

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.
Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST
Charlotte, N.C.

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
24 South Tryon St.
Upstairs, CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Telephone 3528

PILOT MOUNTAIN - NORTH CAROLINA

THE PILOT
For the College Man

The Pilot Life Insurance Company provides a contract at one-half regular premium rates during the first five years. This liberal feature makes it convenient for the college man to get his life insurance at his present age and carry it for the least possible cost during college days. See that you get your protection from the Pilot.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
GREENSBORO, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, President

Piedmont Lyceum Bureau Presents Final Number

Frazer Pair Entertain Students in Last Number of Junior Program

Last Thursday night the Piedmont Lyceum Bureau, under the auspices of the Junior class, presented their concluding number of the season in Shearer Hall. The Frazer Duo appeared in a snappy and varied program of character sketches, dialogues, and music. Ten standard characters were presented in an able and entertaining manner. The Swedish sketch was particularly good, as was the sailor dialogue, which included a well-executed dance. The Italian portrait, however, was the best of the evening, and Mr. Frazer's burlesque of grand opera, in which he sang soprano, tenor, and bass equally well and with surprising clearness, was the most unusual feature of the program. Mr. Frazer, with his rapid costume changes and large fund of jokes, never allowed the interest to flag. His baritone solos were good, and his yodeling occupied entirely too small a place on the program. Mrs. Frazer's accordion solos, particularly the medley of Irish airs and the popular songs, were thoroughly enjoyed. The number was undoubtedly one of the best of the season, and above the level of most of the lyceum attractions which appear at Davidson. Keen humor was the keynote of the performance.

Fresh Train For High School Meet

The promising athletes on the freshman track team this year have several former high school stars and are going strong this season. About 20 freshmen are out for dashes. Only a few are trying out for the weights. The team is being coached with the varsity at present. Bob Kell and several others are showing special qualities for both the dashes and pole vaulting, although no real try-outs have been made. The final trials will come off just before the annual high school meet here on March 27th. The track meet here on Richardson Field will be of special interest to the Freshmen. The freshmen have also on their card a meet with Catawba College on April 19th, followed by another meet with State Fresh on May 1st, which will probably be held in Raleigh.

Delegations which are often said to crowd around aspiring politicians and urge them to run for some office frequently turn out, when sifted down, to have been no more than one man making a friendly suggestion and about as often, nobody at all.

Senator Norris cannot get the people of this State to believe that Senator Simmons sold out to the Republican majority. If he had charged that the Senator had joined the Soviets or become an anarchist or something like that, he might have had an audience.

The Fergusons of Texas are suing for $100,000 libel on the allegation that their reputations have been proportionately injured. Texans, however, do not share in that estimate of the value of this commodity of theirs.

Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.

INSURANCE

We know the cost of not carrying it, but we cannot even estimate the price.

Independence Trust Co.
Insurance Department.
McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13)
Charlotte, N. C.

Davidson Student Honored by Election to Head of Conference Paper

The fifteenth annual North Carolina Volunteer Convention met at N.C. C. W., February 26th, 27th, 28th. The opening address was delivered by Dr. Poteat, president of Wake Forest. Following this was a social hour that was enjoyed greatly. Saturday morning Lieutenant Oxley, a colored missionary, gave an entertaining talk on the work in North Carolina. After his talk the delegates divided into discussion groups and discussed some important topics concerning mission work. Personal interviews were had with the speakers. At the close of these interviews the convention was assembled and officers elected for the coming year. Gene Witherspoon was elected editor and manager of the Monthly News Letter. The afternoon session was devoted to personal interviews, and each delegate attended church at the church of his denomination. That afternoon an open forum of the topics in the discussion groups was led by Dr. Stauffer, Educational Secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement, and Dr.Soper, of Duke University. After a song and devotional service, Dr. Soper delivered the closing address, and the convention came to a very successful close. Among the Davidson delegates were: Ballard, F. W.; Butler, R.; Vance, S.; Carson, C. C.; McAlpine, J. A.; Bordeaux, W. H.; Stewart, D. H.; Williams, C. W.; Eddington, Glenn; Witherspoon, Gene; Williams, J. W.; Howell, W. I.; Slaymaker, A. C.; Williams, Laudon; Clark, Eugene; Smith, W. G.; Miller, Hugh; Rice, W. B.; Lake, Julian; Farnesworth, A. S.; Clark, J. J., and others.

Dr. Gillespie To Speak to Students

Dr. Richard T. Gillespie, class of ’04, will be the speaker at the “Y” services Sunday evening. Dr. Gillespie is president of “The Columbia Theological Seminary.” The Seminary is now moving to Decatur, Ga., where it is putting on a large building program. Since this move to its new home, Dr. Gillespie has been instrumental in the greater part of the work and will probably make the seminary one of the largest in the South by the opening, which will come in the fall of 1927. Dr. Gillespie has just completed conducting a series of services at the First Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga., of which Dr. J. S. Lyons is pastor. These services followed a week of services held by Dr. Harry I. Vance, noted of Nashville. Dr. Gillespie is well known among the students of Davidson, having visited us last year, and all will welcome him back. He is a comparatively young man, and his talks are especially devoted to the men of college age. Dr. Gillespie's coming to Davidson is considered a fortune, and the “Y” is to be congratulated upon securing his return to the hill. Everyone who heard Dr. Gillespie last year will not need an invitation to “Y” services, but those men who have not had the opportunity will be on the right road if they direct themselves to Shearer Hall on Sunday evening.

PANDEINIC SOCIETY

The Pandeinic Literary Society held its regular meeting last Thursday. The topic for debate was “Resolved: That the United States should have a uniform marriage and divorce law.” The affirmative was upheld by W. E. Milton, J. R. Graham, and W. K. Bailey. J. X. Preston and C. D. Patterson defended the negative. The meeting was full of enthusiasm. The house finally decided by a vote of seven to four in favor of the affirmative. As a large number of the members were absent, no business was transacted.

Coach Younger Will Assist Tex Tilson in Remaining Spring Football Practice

Under the combined efforts of Coach Monk Younger and Coach Monk Mattox, the varsity baseball team is gradually rounding into form. Coach Younger was with the team last week for the first time and then only for a day or two. Captain Alford was still in charge, and Coach Younger told him to go ahead, and he would observe for a day or two. Evidently, the coach was well impressed with the way Coach-Captain Alford has been putting his men through their paces, for he made few criticisms. Several times during the week, the “possible varsity” was sent against a team of the scrubs for a two or three-inning game. Few good plays were pulled while errors and “boners” were in constant evidence. Coach Younger has intimated that Coach Mattox will have charge of the varsity for the next two weeks, and probably longer. During this time, Coach Younger will be working with Coach Tilson on the spring football practice. Coach Mattox should be able to coach baseball well. He plays minor league baseball in the summer and knows the game. He plays several positions and can no doubt greatly assist Coach Younger with the team this year. The team needs base running instruction, as well as fielding and hitting experience, and it is too great a task for one man to coach pitchers, catchers, and fielders.

The same line-up is being used as was given last week in this column with the exception of first base. Joe McConnell has emerged as a kind of “dark horse” and is working out pretty regularly at the initial sack. McConnell is a left-hand hitter and was used some last year as a pinch hitter. His greatest asset, however, is a cool and steady head, a thing many of Davidson's players needed last year to curb their excitement and eagerness. According to Captain Alford, the axe is due to fall this week, and the squad will be cut down in order for the various men to get more attention and practice.

National Hat Stores

If it is snap and style you want, come in and look our line over. Prices, $3.85 and $4.85
33 W. Trade St. Charlotte, N.C.
Get your Hats Cleaned and Re-blocked. We make ’em like new.
The Central Hat Shop
Shoe shine in connection. Established in 1900. Phone 1632
8 E. Trade St. Charlotte, N.C.

Since 1868 The Home of Good Shoes

Going Out?

Warm weather---Spring sunshine---are almost here. There'll be lots of different requirements for new shoes then. See Gilmer-Moore’s new sport stuff for young men.
GILMER-MOORE’S CHARLOTTE

YOUR BARBER SHOP

When in Statesville and you require those finishing touches, drop in and let us do the work.
THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP
Statesville, N.C.

BOYS!

For the latest magazines
For the best smokes
For the most refreshing drinks
For toilet articles of the highest quality
WALTER CULBRETH
Next to Vance Hotel

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS
RECORDS AND ROLLS
Statesville, N.C.
ANDREW
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC
OLDEST IN THE STATE
MUSIC STORE
218 N. Tryon St.