THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1926

Monk Younger Grins As Prophecy is Fulfilled

Predictions of Hard Game With Presbyterian College Come True

Monk Younger, head coach of the Davidson Wildcats, is smiling over the fact that his prediction of a hard game with Presbyterian College last Saturday came true, contrary to expression of opinion over the state. Many thought the Wildcats would have an easy victory, but the North Carolina Presbyterians found it difficult going. Coach Younger can now say, “I told you so.”

“The fumble in the third quarter broke the spirit of the team,” said Coach Monk, “and after that the boys did not play the same brand of ball as exhibited in the first period.” Davidson’s coaches never anticipate an easy game, and are always preparing for a surprise from any team. They are consequently going to drill their men as hard this week for Guilford as for any team in the state, realizing that the game with the N.C. Techmen is the following Thursday at Raleigh. They will probably continue giving the men new plays during the week in preparation for the difficult games that remain on the schedule. The secret practices will continue, even for the Guilford game. The Wildcats used only straight football in the game with P.C., and Monk Younger had a number of plays ‘up his sleeve’ that he could have uncorked against the Clinton team if the Blue Stockings had scored.

“Since 1868 The Home of Good Shoes”

The Best Showing of Young Men’s Footwear We've Ever Had

REAL quality --- Gilmer-Moore quality --- here at home. Shoes for men who appreciate better value --- snappy stuff --- and only $5 $6

GILMER-MOORE CO. CHARLOTTE Shoes Luggage

Book by Davidson Professor Issued

The release has just been announced of a book by one of Davidson's most popular and ablest professors. Frazer Hood, Ph.D., Litt.D., is the author of “Everyman’s Insurance,” a book covering completely every type of insurance. Published for the average reader, this book carefully avoids technical terms that would cause many readers perplexment. Dr. Hood has treated the subject in such a way that the terms used are familiar to all. In this book, life, fire, marine, casualty, and the other miscellaneous forms of insurance are completely treated and the entire scope of insurance is reviewed.

This is by no means Dr. Hood's first appearance in print. He is well known as the author of the sketch of Judge Malone’s life in “Selected Poems of Walter Malone.” Dr. Hood is at the head of the psychology department at Davidson and has just returned from a year’s study in Europe. He has traveled very extensively and is one of the most popular professors at Davidson. “Everyman's Insurance” is published by D. Appleton and Company.

York County Alumni of Davidson College Organize New Association

Thirty Alumni in Vicinity of Rock Hill Organize

The York County Alumni Association of Davidson College had its inception meeting last week when approximately 30 Davidson men representing 18 classes gathered at the Chamber of Commerce Hall for a banquet meeting. Officers were elected: Oran Crawford, president; Harry Ruff, secretary; and Ben Dunlap, treasurer.

Oran Crawford, newly elected president of the association, set forth the aims that he hoped to be realized, stating that the local association would endeavor to bring the alumni of the county into closer and more intimate relationship with each other, and attempt to send good students to Davidson, and have a Davidson football game scheduled for this city each year.

York County is the second organization of a network of local organizations to be perfected by the executive secretary of the entire South. The first was organized at Greensboro, Tuesday, September 21st. This section was chosen because of the many contributions it has made to Davidson. York County has sent to Davidson many men during the history of the Presbyterian Institution.

W. S. Woods, of China, was elected president of the Reporters’ Club, at a meeting of that organization last Tuesday morning. R. H. McIlwaine and W. S. Gordon, of Hamlet, N.C., were also nominated with Woods winning on the first ballot. W. S. Gordon was president, but was recently appointed on the staff of The Davidsonian as Assignment Editor, membership in the club being automatically curtailed.

Among other distinctions which Woods has won while in college are, membership in Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemical fraternity, Manager of football in 1925, and ranks third in his class in scholarship. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. B. A. Wilson, of Marion, is vice-president of the organization, with T. Jones, of El Paso, Texas, secretary-treasurer. Members are, C. Murchison, Austin, Texas; L. Covington, Raeford, N.C.; C. Davis, Lancaster, S.C.; John Ripley, Tenn.; A. N. Ely, Jasper, Fla.; I. Wadsworth, Live Oak, Fla.; Tyson, Columbia, S.C.; H. M. Brown, Greensboro, N.C.; W. R. Weaver, Hickory, N.C.; C. R. Lake, Greenville, Miss.; R. R. Kane, Atlanta, Ga.; J. W. Gwin, Lexington, Miss.; R. H. McIlwaine, Japan; J. P. McKnight, Shelby, N.C.; A. M. Sparrow, Ransonville, N.C.; J. G. Wharton, Smithfield, N.C.; W. B. McQueen, Raeford, N.C.

Harry H. Wyman, class of '23, who is a jolly good fellow; he is the sort of a man Davidson is proud to claim.” Harper played in the orchestra for four years, sang in the Glee Club for three, was secretary of the “Y” cabinet, on the varsity track team, and Supervisor and Critic of the Phi Literary Society. He served on the staff of the magazine and was exchange editor for one year. He was not a member of a Greek-letter fraternity while at Davidson.

The British Museum has an income of only $3,700 a year from its permanent endowment. American visitors in London spend $100,000,000 each year, according to British estimates.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, seex VERNON S. BROYLES QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES § x : i Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C. RRARRAAARRRRRRRAKRKKAKKAKAAA THEMES ESSAYS STANDARD | TYPING BUSINESS LETTERS OUTLINES T. G. McCUTCHEN 10 Georgia DAVIDSON “WHERE YOU SEE THE BIG ONES” THEATRE | MONDAY AND TUESDAY Corinne Griffin in “Into Her Kingdom” WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY Gloria Swanson in “Fine Manners” FRIDAY Dorothy Mackail in “Subway Sadie” __ SATURDAY : Ken Maynard in “The Unknown Cavalier” for the next five years, has sent out through the alumni secretary, letters to the 220 men who were members of the class of ’25 as freshmen. George W. McFadden, class of 1908, and who is now at St. Louis, Mo., in a recent letter to the alumni secretary expressed much interest in the work of the college. In glancing over the alumni records, it is shown that there are as many as fifteen Davidson men within a radius of a hundred miles of St. Louis. Efforts are being made to bring these together for a banquet. It will be of much interest to the students and friends of Joe Craig, ex-’27, to see the following announcement: Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Gregory Galbraith announce the marriage of their daughter Ardath Louise to Mr. Joseph Oliver Craig on Saturday, the third of July one thousand nine hundred and twenty-six New York City At Home : 501 West 111th Street New York City had to exert a desperate effort to win. been a drop during the last few MACE In at present in Charleston, S.C. writes a very interesting letter to the alumni secretary in which he expresses the wish to get in touch with all Davidson men in the county, it was decided to have a banquet twice a year—one during the fall and one in the spring. Those present at the meeting were: Prof. J. C. Bailey, of the Greek Department; Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, who presented the present status of Davidson and its needs, and outlined the future plans of the general alumni organization and R. H. McIlwaine, manager of the Wildcat football team. The following is a list of those present: Dr. W. G. Stevens, H. L. Simril, A. L. Blake, J. B. Reid, W. M. Gracey, Oran Crawford, J. D. Seed, Ben Dunlap, W. L. Roddey, H. E. Ruff, C. L. McMurray, Dr. Frank Strait, D. G. Wilson, T. L. Johnson, Ben Fewell, J. Roy Barron, Dave Crawford, Frank Crawford, Ed Fewell, Jr., W. L. Smith, Dr. Dave Biggar, and A. M. Hurd. James Harvey Patton, '25, has returned to his old home town, Sweetwater, Tenn., where he has entered the wholesale grocery business. Neil A. Currie, '26, has entered the insurance field with the Equitable Life Insurance Company at their offices in Birmingham, Ala. Ebony railroad ties so hard that it is necessary to bore holes through them before spikes can be driven are used on certain divisions of the Kansas City, Mexico and Orient Railway in Mexico. S. R. McKee who was president of the class of 1888 recently wrote to the office of the alumni secretary and joined the Loyalty League. McKee has been for some time and is at present president of the Bingham School. O. M. Anderson, ‘08, writes that he will be back for several days at home-coming at Davidson. He says he hasn’t been back to the Hill since the day of his graduation and he is looking forward to home-coming. V. J. M. Hendrix, ’25, president of his class its first year, and alumni president for the next five years, has sent out letters to the 220 men who were members of the class of ’25 as freshmen. George W. McFadden, class of 1908, and who is now at St. Louis, Mo., in a recent letter to the alumni secretary expressed much interest in the work of the college. In glancing over the alumni records, it is shown that there are as many as fifteen Davidson men within a radius of a hundred miles of St. Louis. Efforts are being made to bring these together for a banquet. It will be of much interest to the students and friends of Joe Craig, ex-’27, to see the following announcement: Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Gregory Galbraith announce the marriage of their daughter Ardath Louise to Mr. Joseph Oliver Craig on Saturday, the third of July one thousand nine hundred and twenty-six New York City At Home : 501 West 111th Street New York City had to exert a desperate effort to win. been a drop during the last few MACE In at present in Charleston, S.C. writes a very interesting letter to the alumni secretary in which he expresses the wish to get in touch with all Davidson men in the county, it was decided to have a banquet twice a year—one during the fall and one in the spring. Those present at the meeting were: Prof. J. C. Bailey, of the Greek Department; Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, who presented the present status of Davidson and its needs, and outlined the future plans of the general alumni organization and R. H. McIlwaine, manager of the Wildcat football team. The following is a list of those present: Dr. W. G. Stevens, H. L. Simril, A. L. Blake, J. B. Reid, W. M. Gracey, Oran Crawford, J. D. Seed, Ben Dunlap, W. L. Roddey, H. E. Ruff, C. L. McMurray, Dr. Frank Strait, D. G. Wilson, T. L. Johnson, Ben Fewell, J. Roy Barron, Dave Crawford, Frank Crawford, Ed Fewell, Jr., W. L. Smith, Dr. Dave Biggar, and A. M. Hurd. James Harvey Patton, '25, has returned to his old home town, Sweetwater, Tenn., where he has entered the wholesale grocery business. Neil A. Currie, '26, has entered the insurance field with the Equitable Life Insurance Company at their offices in Birmingham, Ala. Ebony railroad ties so hard that it is necessary to bore holes through them before spikes can be driven are used on certain divisions of the Kansas City, Mexico and Orient Railway in Mexico. S. R. McKee who was president of the class of 1888 recently wrote to the office of the alumni secretary and joined the Loyalty League. McKee has been for some time and is at present president of the Bingham School. O. M. Anderson, ‘08, writes that he will be back for several days at home-coming at Davidson. He says he hasn’t been back to the Hill since the day of his graduation and he is looking forward to home-coming. V. J. M. Hendrix, ’25, president of his class its first year, and alumni president for the next five years, has sent out letters to the 220 men who were members of the class of ’25 as freshmen. George W. McFadden, class of 1908, and who is now at St. Louis, Mo., in a recent letter to the alumni secretary expressed much interest in the work of the college. In glancing over the alumni records, it is shown that there are as many as fifteen Davidson men within a radius of a hundred miles of St. Louis. Efforts are being made to bring these together for a banquet. It will be of much interest to the students and friends of Joe Craig, ex-’27, to see the following announcement: Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Gregory Galbraith announce the marriage of their daughter Ardath Louise to Mr. Joseph Oliver Craig on Saturday, the third of July one thousand nine hundred and twenty-six New York City At Home : 501 West 111th Street New York City had to exert a desperate effort to win. been a drop during the last few MACE In at present in Charleston, S.C. writes a very interesting letter to the alumni secretary in which he expresses the wish to get in touch with all Davidson men in the county, it was decided to have a banquet twice a year—one during the fall and one in the spring. Those present at the meeting were: Prof. J. C. Bailey, of the Greek Department; Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, who presented the present status of Davidson and its needs, and outlined the future plans of the general alumni organization and R. H. McIlwaine, manager of the Wildcat football team. The following is a list of those present: Dr. W. G. Stevens, H. L. Simril, A. L. Blake, J. B. Reid, W. M. Gracey, Oran Crawford, J. D. Seed, Ben Dunlap, W. L. Roddey, H. E. Ruff, C. L. McMurray, Dr. Frank Strait, D. G. Wilson, T. L. Johnson, Ben Fewell, J. Roy Barron, Dave Crawford, Frank Crawford, Ed Fewell, Jr., W. L. Smith, Dr. Dave Biggar, and A. M. Hurd. James Harvey Patton, '25, has returned to his old home town, Sweetwater, Tenn., where he has entered the wholesale grocery business. Neil A. Currie, '26, has entered the insurance field with the Equitable Life Insurance Company at their offices in Birmingham, Ala. Ebony railroad ties so hard that it is necessary to bore holes through them before spikes can be driven are used on certain divisions of the Kansas City, Mexico and Orient Railway in Mexico.