THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1926

NOTICE, ’26

All men of the class of ’26 who happen to be present at the Carolina game on Home-coming Day are
urged to go by the Alumni Secretary’s office, in old Kappa Alpha Hall, and get a small badge of ’26
colors which Milton will give you. The emblems will be inconspicuous, but will lend uniqueness to the occasion. November 13th
will be our first real chance to get together again. As the newest class of Alumni, we should lead the
field. Let’s have at least fifty members present. This announcement includes ex-’26 men as well as regular graduates.

ROLAND PARKER, President Class 1926. Rome, Ga.

TIGERS AND WILDCATS (Continued from page 1)

with V. M. I., except Leggette, who is out with a bad ankle. His absence will be keenly felt. Nisbet,
or Goodykoontz, will take his place. The Tigers, averaging about 168 pounds, outweigh the Wildcats by seven pounds to the
man, yet this is counterbalanced by the speed and agility of the Davidson eleven. An interesting feature of the game
is the fact that Coach C. A. Bernier, of Hampden-Sidney, coached the entire trio of Davidson Coaches—Monk Younger, Tex Tilson,
and Monk Mattox. Thus, quite a bit of personal interest centers around the outcome. The game will take place on
Wearn Field at 2:30 o'clock next Saturday. The officials are as follows: Izard, Washington and Lee, referee; Harrell, N. C.
State, umpire; Evans, University of Va., head linesman.

Elk once roamed America from coast to coast.

THE BEST PLACE TO EAT Brown’s Restaurant 17 S. Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

COLLEGE JEWELRY Watches and Clocks Sheaffer Pens and Pencils Seal Stationery Pennants and Pillows Wildcat Belts Athletic Supplies W. S.
HENDERSON, Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C.

ALUMNI NEWS

Milton Chosen Official of Publicity Directory Eight Colleges Represented in Convention at Durham

Publicity directors of eight colleges in North Carolina met at the Washington Duke hotel in Durham last Thursday afternoon and
evening for a conference, discussing the problems that confront dispensers of college news, and exchanging ideas as to the best
possible means of obtaining publicity in the newspapers, the conclusion being reached that if newspapers were given a square deal,
the same would be given the directors. Davidson College was represented by Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, whose duties include publicity
work. He was elected vice-president of the organization, which will be known as the “Association of North Carolina News Bureaus.”
Robert Maddry, of the University of North Carolina, is president of this new organization, and Ernest Moore, of N. C.
State, secretary-treasurer. The first session of the eight men gathered together convened at 3:30 in the afternoon. After deliberations until
6:00 o'clock, the meeting adjourned until 6:30, at which time they were entertained at dinner, with a discussion following until
9:00 o'clock that evening. Several of the men were beginners in the work and obtained numerous new ideas, while the
older men likewise were benefitted. Besides the three officers, others present were R. P. Harrison, of Duke University; E. A.
McMillan, of Wake Forest; H. Turner, of Guilford; C. M. Cannon, of Elon; and M. L. Wright, of the East
Carolina Teachers’ Training College.

Canes and Derbies

At a class meeting Tuesday morning, the Seniors voted to adopt canes and derbies as their distinctive garb during the
coming year. Special coats, sweaters, and blazers were also suggested, but failed to receive the approval of the class. The
design of the canes and derbies has not yet been officially adopted. Each year during the past decade it has
been customary for the Seniors to adopt some official garment, but it has been five years since any class has
appeared with canes and derbies. The class of 1922 was the last on record to pass upon this form of
attire. Since that time, sweaters and special coats have prevailed. Last year the Seniors adopted blue jackets trimmed with orange,
these being the class colors.

While some of Davidson’s alumni have been very loyal and shown interest in all her activities, there are thousands who
have never taken any part in the work of their Alma Mater, and who have never contributed to her upkeep.

The third largest purchaser of American agricultural implements this year is Russia.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP The Most Convenient For Davidson Men

BEEF MAYHEW’S MARKET FRESH MEATS WE BUY OUR OWN VEAL DAVIDSON, N. C. PORK

Personal

Robert Underwood Woods, class of '23, was married to Miss Majorie Robenia McLeod on October 27th at the Presbyterian Church
of Maxton. Woods was known on the campus as “Chink” and was one of the most popular of ’23. His
bride is a sister of Bob McLeod, who was also a member of “Chink’s” class and remembered as one of
the very best cheer leaders ever at Davidson. The wedding of Mr. and Mrs. Woods is of great interest throughout
the Carolinas and Virginia.

C. B. Saunders, ‘11, has changed his address to St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

J. M. C. Covington, ’25, is now studying medicine at the University of Virginia. He was at the V. M.
I. game with Davidson in Lynchburg last Saturday and was one of the linesmen. Dr. and Mrs. Orin Moore, of
Charlotte, N. C., were also at the game. Kenneth Lewis, ’24, and John McAllister, ‘19, both of Greensboro, were at
Lynchburg to see the Wildcat-Cadet game. A. P. Saunders, ‘18, is now in Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

The following Davidson men are with the Aetna Life Insurance Company: M. D. Thomasson, New York; Sam Woods, Oklahoma City;
Chink Woods, Memphis, Tenn.; G. B. Sorrells, Columbia, S. C.; B. E. Shields, Atlanta, Ga.; O. J. Allison, Columbia, S.
C.; W. B. Thomas, Pittsburgh; and P. O. Bethea, Baltimore.

Rev. W. A. Gamble and his wife were visitors at Davidson last week. Gamble finished in the class of '23
and later finished at Union Seminary. He is now preaching at Pinetops, N. C.

T. F. Staley, '25, is in business at Louisville, Ky. His address is 311 Inter-Southern Bldg.

W. M. Gracey, who is in the life insurance business in Rock Hill, S. C., was at the college for
the week-end.

Mr. and Mrs. O. C. Williamson recently announced the arrival at their home of Norval Faires Williamson on the 18th
of September. Mr. Williamson graduated in the class of ‘18. He is a missionary to Mexico and in the State
of Guerrero.A. M. Hurd, '24, who is teaching in Rock Hill, S.C., was in Davidson for the weekend. Hurd’s home
is at Davidson, so it means a lot to him to be a visitor on the hill. A. S. Jones
and J. E. Moore, both of the class of '26, were visitors on the campus this past weekend. They are
members of the Salisbury High School faculty. M. D. Thomason, '25, who is with the Aetna Life Insurance Company in
Oklahoma, was called to his home in Parkton last week on account of the illness of his father.

Coming back strong in the last few minutes of play, the Junior class team overcame an early lead amassed by
the Seniors and won the deciding game of the class basketball league. This is the second year that the men
of '28 have captured the coveted flag. Especially notable work on the part of Calhoun, McAuley, and Kugler played a
big part in the successful season staged by the Juniors. These warriors have not lost a game in two years.
The final standing of the clubs was: Juniors, Freshmen, Seniors, and Sophomores.

A great great-granddaughter of Sacajawea—the Shoshone Indian squaw who guided the Lewis and Clark Expedition to the Pacific Coast more
than a hundred years ago—is teaching the white children, descendants of the frontier pioneers. She is Miss Irtense Large, and
her school is 50 miles north of Green River, Wyoming.

The expression, ‘bees in his bonnet,’ came true recently in Oklahoma where a man discovered after chopping down a tree
that his hat was filled with the insects. He carefully carried them home, being stung only once by a bee
crawling down his shirt collar, and placed them in a hive.

The removal of harmful toxins from the blood of animals makes it possible to transfuse this blood directly into the
bodies of humans.

Alumni Association to Organize New Chapters
Ernest Milton to Tour Carolinas For Purpose of Arousing Alumni Interest

Ernest Milton, the Alumni Secretary, is planning two trips in the near future for the purpose of organizing alumni associations.
There are several places where associations should be, and where strong ones could be organized. It is these places which
the secretary intends to visit. His first trip will be through eastern and central North Carolina, including Raeford, Laurinburg, and
Wilmington. There are associations at some of these places but most of them are inactive. It is the plan to
organize or reorganize associations in these towns. The trip that the secretary takes will be in South Carolina, including such
towns as Columbia, Sumter, Greenville, and Charleston.

Charlotte’s Alumni Association is planning a big celebration the night before Homecoming Day—the eve of the Davidson-Carolina clash. This association
consists of some two hundred alumni, with L. H. Wilkinson, president. Mr. Wilkinson has been corresponding with Milton and reports
excellent spirit among the members of the Charlotte organization. This association is one of the nearest to the college and
is among the most active.

LOYALTY LEAGUE

The Davidson College Alumni are rapidly subscribing to the Loyalty League and showing much interest in the college. Several contributions
have come to the alumni office in the past week. The following list is in addition to the names published
last week who have been enrolled as members of the Loyalty League:

C. S. Hicks, ’07, Erwin, N.C.
Neill R. Currie, '23, Box 304, Hiram, O.
S. R. McKee, Bingham School, Asheville, N.C.
R. K. Shaw, '22, Quincy, Fla.
D. M. Nutall, '16, Charlotte, N.C.
W. G. Houck, '24, China Grove, N.C.
O. J. Thies, '18, Davidson, N.C.
Dr. Chas. C. Orr, ’95, Asheville, N.C.
Ruffner Campbell, '10, Asheville, N.C.
Dr. J. P. Matheson, Charlotte, N.C.
L. Richardson, '14, Greensboro, N.C.
J. W. McLaughlin, '74, Raeford, N.C.
C. H. McMurray, '07, Abbeville, S.C.
Harold F. Coffey, ’20, Lenoir, N.C.
James C. Harper, '15, Lenoir, N.C.
Hinton James, ’06, Laurinburg, N.C.
Rev. R. S. Eskridge, ’97, Swannanoa, N.C.
L. James, Jr., '06, Charlotte, N.C.
Locke White, ’13, Suchowfu, China.
Capt. W. A. Dumas, ’15, Fort Benning, Ga.
Rev. Thornton Whaling, ’77, Louisville, Ky.
J. Watson Moore, '12, Winston-Salem, N.C.
Dr. H. A. Wakefield, Charlotte, N.C.
R. H. Ratchford, ’17, Greelyville, S.C.
R. A. McLeod, '09, Hemp, N.C.
Hadley A. Hill, '27, New York City.
D. McB. Austin, ’12, Maxton, N.C.
T. M. Appleby, ’26, Davidson, N.C.
W. B. Thomas, '10, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dr. William Mack, ’83, Brooklyn, N.Y.
A. M. Hurd, ’24, Rock Hill, S.C.
Geo. W. Coan, Jr., ’11, Winston-Salem, N.C.
L. M. Rozzelle, '04, Salisbury, N.C.

EXTERIOR OF STADIUM
(Continued from page 1)

The Messrs. Richardson will not be at the dedication in person, but a letter of presentation will be sent by
them to be read at the exercises by Mr. Hendrix. The reception of the field and stadium will be made
by President Martin.

After lunch, all roads will lead to the newly dedicated field and stadium, where the Wildcats will play their annual
football classic with the University of North Carolina. The exercises of the day will close with an annual performance in
Shearer Hall, appropriately called “Stunt Night.” To the performance of each class will be added entertainment by the Glee Club
and the Masquers, better known as the Dramatic Club.

Dice were used in Ancient Greece, their invention being traced to the Psalmedes of the 13th Century B.C.

ARTCRAFT Theatre
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Wednesday and Thursday
Nov. 10th and 11th
Blind Goddess
Admission 10 and 20 cts.

In some few instances those of you who made purchases of shoes during our exhibit at Davidson Sept. 29th have
not been served in a manner wholly satisfactory to either of us nor as promptly as I desired. I shall
be glad personally to make any necessary adjustments and attend promptly to any requests you may wish to make if
you will communicate with our Norfolk office. I shall aim in the future to avoid all possibility of any friction
whatsoever and to promote and maintain a direct-from-maker to-wearer service that shall be to the utmost mutually satisfactory.

Thank you.
H. C. LONG
REGAL SHOE CO.
Norfolk, Va.

Next Exhibit November 17th and 18th
V. S. Broyles, Jr.
Student Representative
