Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN; NOVEMBER 25, 1926

The following is the letter from Lunsford Richardson, Jr., read by Max Hendrix at the dedication of the new stadium,
November 13th:

Mr. President, Faculty and Students of Davidson College.

Dear Fellows:

I regret that it was impossible for either my brother or myself to be with you today. Finding, however, that
my “old lady”—as we used to call room-mates in my day—would be there, I asked him to sub. for us
in officially presenting Richardson Field to the Alma Mater.

Every old Davidson athlete—particularly every old football player—will unanimously agree and bear me out that probably the greatest impression made
on him during his stay at Davidson was that Old Red Field we used to have there. These impressions were
lasting as evidenced by the fact that in after years when a bunch of old Davidson “has beens” got together
and started reminiscing, sooner or later they reached the familiar topic of that “Old Red Field.” In addition to the
usual broken bones, sprains and strains, I have heard fellows attribute even chronic catarrh and premature baldness to the red
dust—it sure took a heavy soaping to get it out of the pores. When dry it was bad enough, but
when wet it was worse, and all were always unanimous in agreeing that after a rain and a few muddy
practices, when the clods and hoof-prints became sun-dried like bricks, every time a man hit one of those projections he
favored said point of contact and his person for a week thereafter.

To show you just how bad that old field was, I doubt if there is an old Davidson man—whether he
played varsity, scrub, class ball or Epworth—who has not heard and experienced the expression somebody got off to the effect
that “Any man who has ever played a season’s football on that old red field at Davidson has simply been
drug through hell in a croker sack and nothing less.” Certainly nobody needed a good playing field worse than we
did. Then, too, we had never had any seating capacity at Davidson—in fact, until the last few years we have
never really needed any. But with the big road building program over the South, and particularly the hard surface roads
being put down in North Carolina for the last two or three years, inter-collegiate athletic contests began to draw. As
these roads became more general, the colleges connected with good hard surface roads and within several hours of the big
centers of population, began to draw more and more of their alumni and the general public to their home grounds.
In the North, where they have had good roads for years, it has long since become popular for the people
to take a half to a day’s motor trip with their whole family to see college contests. Annual games became
in time annual classics, and in the last year or so all these colleges have had to greatly enlarge their
stadiums. It was easy to see that the same thing would happen in the South as our motor transportation became
quicker and more comfortable. Just as golf has deservedly taken first place as an after-college amateur sport, football has become
the great school and college game. Almost everybody nowadays realizes the value of training in such a highly organized and
competitive sport as football, under a high-minded, competent coach. The Spartan training alone would make it worthwhile for every student
who is physically sound—if you get run in in the fall, stay in training and go out again for the
spring session.

Some time ago one of my uncles—an alumnus and former president of Davidson—Henry Louis Smith, sent me one of his
articles on this subject which impressed me very much. Here are, briefly, a few of what he calls The Lessons
of the Gridiron.

1. The habit of willing deference to the opinions and guidance of authority in the person or coach.
2. The habit of self-control, of subordinating the present to the future, the body to the spirit, the desires and
emotions to the will.
3. The practical recognition of the necessity of long, hard training, unremitting drudgery and hard work as the inevitable price
of future victory.
4. The ability to fight an opponent to a finish, yet without personal hostility or unfairness, and to lose without
bitterness or hatred.
5. The habitual recognition of the fact that every contest must be waged in accordance with fixed rules; that the
maxims, “all’s fair in war,” and, “the end justifies the means,” are lies; and that it is better to lose
honestly than to win dishonestly.
6. The practical knowledge that harmonious teamwork, the sacrifice of the individual for the common good, unselfish loyalty to one
another and to the team are essential to efficiency and success in any cooperative undertaking.
7. The inculcation of a keen sense of personal honor and personal responsibility which will prevent the breaking of an
obligation, even when detection would be impossible.
8. In addition, the whole body and mind is trained to quick coordination, strength and endurance, and each player is
not only given a new idealism of physical “fitness” but taught to attain and maintain it. Manly “hardness,” that disregards
pain, resoluteness and power of will, a mental training in complex plays equal to that of any college course the
list. Pass a majority of their tickets before they can play is absolutely correct and proper—a man who can’t carry
his regular school work with this extra or parallel course, should drop some of the “parallel work.” I want to
pay a tribute right here to Davidson teams of the last two or three years, which I understand are averaging
about 10.

(Continued on page 8)

CAMPUS CLIQUES

While the voice of the politician is heard throughout the land, the student statesman’s voice is no less audible on
many a college campus. Student Councils are being elected in the colleges, as well as class officers, and the season
of bickering and deals is on. At the University of Kansas football players, who are also candidates for offices, played
at political intrigue so vigorously that they neglected the---

---more muscular game and caused their University to lose. In fact, it is charged that political factions split the football
team asunder and rendered it impotent on the field. At least, this is the charge of Chancellor E. H. Lindley,
who rebuked the athletic politicians publicly at convocation.

Shortly afterward, the football candidates withdrew their candidacies by request of Coach F. C. Cappon. As a result, there will
be no attempt to hold elections until football season is over.

As usual, there is much talk of cliques and combines. The Boston University News frankly admits their existence: “The fact
that cliques exist cannot be denied. If one fraternity is not strong enough to swing the whole election, it combines
with one or two others of the same strength, and these, sometimes by affiliating with one or two non-fraternity men,
manage to control the entire workings of a class or organization. And once the clique gets in control, it runs
affairs to suit itself, behind closed doors which bear the sign, ‘No admittance.’”

The News is in favor of a benevolent despotism. It would have us frankly admit the impracticability of democracy among
educated people. Its editorial concludes: “It is far better that the clique run things to suit itself, for if every
member of the class was to be consulted, the organization would collapse, and nothing would be accomplished. If a clique
can run the affairs of the class in a smooth manner, it is to be given a vote of thanks
and not censured for its lack of democracy. We favor clique politics because (1) it is more efficient; (2) it
is inevitable; and (3) it gives us something to talk about.”

At Ohio State University, the usual groups are conspiring for the senior class presidency. Hitherto, this has been done in
secret. This year, one of the groups comes forward with the suggestion that the fraternities implicitly declare their combines openly
and unashamedly: “The pre-election stand of this combination is honest and clean, open publication of political combines and their principles
rather than the underhand, sub-rosa methods that have prevailed in former years. That these campus political combines exist is a
well-known fact, and this combine feels that the ‘above board’ publication of the political situation is the only honorable method
of handling this problem for the best interest of all concerned. In the opinion of this group of candidates, refusal
to publish well-recognized combinations can mean only one thing, namely, underhandedness.”

The New Student.

Choose Canes and Derbies to Mark Superiority

Race track derbies are run over by horses. Senior derbies are run down by horses. But derbies and canes it
is to be. The Senior class of Davidson College, for the year 1927, has at last decided upon derbies as
the high and dignified mark of superiority on this here campus. Crowning the well-shaped brows and resting upon the well-oiled
locks of his majesty The Senior will be seen in the near future a Fifth Avenue model of the celebrated
old lid, the derby. Black has been decided upon as being a bit more awe-inspiring than the brown variety. Mr.
Senior, nonchalantly twirling his own personal cane, will be a living prototype of what the well-dressed man should wear. Now,
don’t mistake the phrase “equal to any college course” to mean the whole college course. I think the rule that
athletes must be the cynosure of all intelligent eyes. Ain't knowledge grand!

Mr. Joseph McConnell, president of the class of 1927, has had expunged from class records all account of the thrilling
and gruesome contest which waged between the Sweaterites and the Derbyites before the bitter battle that waged so warmly and
so vociferously within the venerable walls of old Shearer apropos class insignia. There were three distinct classes: those who wanted
derbies, those who wanted sweaters, and those who wanted a fight. The third class outnumbered one and two, so it
seemed; and a good time was had by all. Harllee Bordeaux and Harllee Branch have been invited to repeat their
performance before the biennial meeting of the Associated Association of Amalgamated Derby and Sweater Producer’s Union at their next regular
session in the Yangtze Stadium, Peking, China. Don Wharton has graciously acceded to the request that he referee the bout.
Robert Glenn and Holcombe Austin will act as pallbearers. This is a little ways off the subject, but it’s good
fight news. And sport news is scarce this issue.

There remains one element of truth in this account. The Seniors have officially adopted the cane and derby as the
class regalia. Will the hoi polloi please co-operate and refrain from nasty and abusive language?

Through the generosity of the Stowe Brothers, proprietors of the Davidson Theatre, the football team was given 50 passes to
see “Red” Grange in One Minute to Play last Monday night. These passes were given to the football team by
the Stowe Brothers to show their interest in the team, and Davidson College in general. This entitled all members of
the football squad and the managers to general admission. The Davidson Theatre was built last year by the Stowe Brothers.
In past years, theatres in Davidson have failed after a short period. However, the present theater, due to the first-class
pictures that have been shown and to the nominal admission charge, has had a large patronage and more than likely
is here to stay.

Love—“Does she smoke?”
Knox—“Well, almost.”

We know a country lassie who thinks a chocolate sundae is a negro holiday.

A clear field ahead!

Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Perfectly blended. Gain after gain for natural tobacco taste. It stands to reason—the better the tobaccos, the better the taste.
Natural tobacco character—better still! There's character in Chesterfields—natural character—the natural mildness and good taste of fine tobaccos. And when matched
to bring out how else account for Chesterfield’s record—America’s fastest-growing cigarette for four consecutive years? How else than through a
natural goodness which men find in no other cigarette?
