2 $ THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 31, 1926

Four Members of Senior Class Formally Inducted Into Phi Beta Kappa Friday

Hazing Abolished During First Year

On Friday evening, the Gamma of North Carolina chapter of Phi Beta Kappa initiated into membership four members of the
class of '26. They were: Clarence E. Houston, of Monroe, N. C.; Otis L. Brenner, of Augusta, Ga.; James M.
Appleby, of Florence, Ala.; and Robert W. Graves, of Rome, Ga. The four student members who were taken in last
fall were A. Hayden Hollingsworth, Jr., of Decatur, Ga.; B. U. Ratchford, of Gastonia, N. C.; E. Kelsey Regen, of
Franklin, Tenn.; and H. L. Shaw, Jr., of Sumter, S.C.

Dr. T. W. Lingle, Prof. W. W. Woods, and Dr. J. M. McConnell represented the local chapter at the national
council of Phi Beta Kappa which was held in New York from September 8-10 last fall. The national council meets
once every three years.

The officers of the local chapter for the coming year are: Prof. J. L. Douglas, president; Dr. T. W. Lingle,
vice-president; and Prof. W. W. Woods, secretary and treasurer. This district of Phi Beta Kappa includes the states of Maryland,
Delaware, Virginia, North and South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. In these states, there are now 12 colleges which have chapters
of the fraternity, there being none in Delaware, Florida, nor in Washington City.

It is very probable that charters will be granted to two institutions at the next meeting of the national council
in 1928. The colleges for women in these states which now have charters are Randolph-Macon and Agnes Scott. The total
number of colleges with Phi Beta Kappa in the United States is 177.

Brenner, Appleby, Graves, and Houston Were Those Honored — Others Last Fall

During the four years’ history of the class of '26, it has seen many and varied changes take place around
the old college. But perhaps the most important and momentous of them all occurred during the Freshman year when the
question of the abolition of hazing was brought before the student body.

In previous years, attempts had been made to outlaw hazing, but up to that time, no marked success had been
met with. The class had been here scarcely three months—long enough to get a real good taste of the “old
days” and develop a keen anticipation for Soph days when they could do a little hazing. But such hopes were
soon to be blighted; for early in December, certain leaders in student body affairs presented to the student body a
movement for the abolition of the old institution, substituting for it a Court of Control which should have complete charge
of all Freshman discipline.

After a great deal of discussion pro and con, the student body voted to give the proposed system a three
months’ trial, at the end of that time taking a final vote on the matter to decide whether it should
be a permanent adoption or not.

Three months passed. The Court of Control was tried and tested. Then came the date for the final judgment. On
April 7, 1923, the student body voted by an overwhelming majority to abolish all hazing of every kind and substitute
as a permanent institution the Court of Control. The small minority then voted to make it unanimous. The faculty, recognizing
the great step taken by the students of Davidson, declared a holiday.

Since that eventful day, the court has been working diligently through almost four years of service. Criticism as well as
commendation has been its reward, but there is no doubt that it has accomplished a great and lasting good for
the college. Letters of criticism from parents, in regard to the treatment of their boys, that used to flood the
dean's office, have entirely disappeared, and in their stead, statements of approval are received by the administration.

Certainly, no class has ever engaged in a wider number of activities and carried all of them out well.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF SENIOR CLASS (Continued from page 1)

The college records of this year show that the average of the class as a whole was well over 90.
About one-sixth of the class made the honor roll, which requires an average of 95. The class has long been
known for its excellence along scholastic lines.

Two members of the class of '26 have received the highest distinction that Davidson has to offer for athletics. Flake
Laird and Harry Vance have both received the Norris Athletic Trophy cup, which is awarded to the best all-round athlete
at Davidson. This class has taken part in every athletic event since it made its first advent on the campus.
In football, basketball, baseball, tennis, wrestling, track, and boxing, it has its representatives who are worthy to be called real
athletes. Under the tutelage of worthy coaches, they have imbibed the ideals of true sportsmanship and have proved themselves worthy
foes on the athletic field.

The publications have taken on a new lease of life since the members of the class of '26 have managed
them. The Davidsonian has progressed until it is known as one of the best papers in the South. The class
inaugurated Sanity Rare, the annual humorous magazine, and has only recently published the best annual appearing on the campus. Members
of the class have contributed articles of merit to the Davidson College Magazine and to the recent Chameleon, which was
first thought of by the local chapter of Sigma Upsilon, of which Seniors make up most of the membership.

In religious work, in deputations, and in personal service, this class has given of its best talent. Hollingsworth, as president
of the Y. M. C. A. during the past year, with the assistance of his capable cabinet, has fostered a
more religious spirit on the campus. The Glee Club and the Dramatic Club have been instrumental in fostering the Davidson
spirit and in displaying the artistic talents of many members of the class of '26. Wilson and Smith as leaders
of their respective...

COMMENCEMENT PROGRAM

SUNDAY
11:00 a.m.—Baccalaureate Sermon—Bishop E. A. Penick.
8:00 p.m.—Sermon Before the Y. M. C. A.—Rev. K. J. Foreman.

MONDAY
5:30 p.m.—Senior Class Exercises.
8:00 p.m.—Dramatic Club Presentation.
10:00 p.m.—General Fraternity Reception.

TUESDAY
9:30 a.m.—Meeting of Board of Trustees.
12:15 p.m.—Annual Literary Address—Hon. A. M. Scales.
1:30 p.m.—Annual Alumni Luncheon. Meeting of Athletic Association.
5:00 p.m.—Reception of the Faculty.
8:00 p.m.—Exercises of Literary Societies; Senior Oratorical Contest; Award of Diplomas, Medals, etc.

WEDNESDAY
10:30 a.m.—Award of College Medals; Graduating Exercises; Lowering of Class Flag.

TRUSTEES, ALUMNI (Continued from page 1)

Composing the executive committee of the Board of Trustees are Dr. W. L. Lingle, R. A. Dunn, W. H. Belk,
H. N. Pharr, Dr. C. E. Raynal, and Dr. J. M. McConnell.

The Alumni Association will hold its annual meeting at a luncheon at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel at 1:30, at which
time it is expected between four and five hundred alumni of Davidson will be present. This is annually one of
the most important events of the commencement season. Officers of the Alumni Association are: Dr. J. C. Rowan, president; H.
T. Mills and J. C. Harper, vice-presidents; and F. L. Jackson, treasurer.

Athletic Association

The Athletic Association meeting follows immediately the gathering at the alumni luncheon, and it is thought that the report of
the Athletic Council of Davidson will command the most interest. At that time, it will be reported that a debt
of over seven thousand dollars that faced the local association at the beginning of last year has been reduced to
a little over one thousand, and that when next year's schedule is completed, the Davidson College Athletic Association will be
far ahead in finances.

While no statement has been obtained from the authorities, the matter of a stadium will probably receive lengthy consideration. Now
that Davidson has the best athletic field in the state, it needs a concrete stadium to accompany it. The Athletic
Association will consider this and take definite action, is the opinion of many people.

Representatives of the alumni on the athletic council are: L. H. Wilkinson, L. Richardson, and J. M. Black.

CAPTAINS, NOT KINGS (Continued from page 1)

Not content to excel merely in scholastic attainments, the members of this class have attained heights in every activity that
pertains to college life. In athletics, in literary pursuits, in dramatic and musical productions, in journalism, they have shown their
unquestioned talent and proficiency. Perhaps no class has ever made a better record while at Davidson of which it may
well be proud. Take a course or two out of the curriculum and the students probably will not know they
are gone. But take one day out of the Christmas holidays and hear the uproar. There is too much of
that effete spirit of the inefficient kings on modern campuses.tive organizations have done much for them by organizing trips and
giving concerts and performances throughout the year. The work of the four literary societies has been greatly enhanced by the
work of the class of 1926, who will be formally conducted into the organization with an address of welcome by
Dr. J. C. Rowan, of Concord, president of the alumni organization, with a response by R. B. Parker, president of
the class of '26. Routine matters will be taken up at this time, with particular attention to be given to
graduating students when the speaker said that if they were thinking of their work in terms of the salary, the
prerequisites, the privileges, or the prestige it carries, then “you are just an old-fashioned antiquated king.”

Turning then to the captains, Professor Foreman declared that a captain won his spurs, that he had been through the
mill, knew his business, and won his position on merit. “A captain loves his work. He does not retire until
he is retired. The reward of a successful captain is not a larger tent, but a larger command. He works
for what he gets.”

“Leadership in the world, the finest rewards of life, are never for the men to whom the sweetest music in
the world is the noon-day whistle,” averred the speaker. “The rewards of life are for the man whose heart is
really in his work, who is actually on the job. Great achievements are not made by men who insist on
an eight-hour day, but by an Edison who works two shifts all his life. Mastery of nature is not won
by gardeners who keep praying it will rain so they can quit work, but by the Burbanks who devote their
entire lives to the study and the service of nature.”

In drawing conclusions, this popular professor at Davidson said that building the Kingdom of God is the one great task
of the captains—greater than any work, greater than all tasks. “That men shall become God-like and that the world shall
become heaven-like—there is nothing higher,” he said. “The Kingdom of God sweeps the kings away, into the limbo of dead
mistakes. In that realm, there is room for but one king. But when the kings are gone, come to call
for the captains. The Captain of our salvation needs men—men who will win their way and earn their places, who
have the joy of the artist in work for the work's good sake, who are willing to lose themselves that
the work may prosper, who can join hands in honest friendship with men of like aims in other races and
families, men who can look beyond the work’s details and the work's reward to the great end of all earth's
service—the star-domed city of God.”

An alumni secretary. A committee was appointed from the Alumni Association two years ago to discuss this matter and make
a report, but nothing definite has been done until recently. The board of trustees has already sanctioned the establishment of
an alumni secretary at Davidson, provided the necessary funds can be provided. It is expected that a concrete recommendation will
be made to the association at the luncheon, however, relative to the duties of the office, which it is believed
will cover publicity and the handling of the records of the alumni of Davidson, which at present is inadequately done
because the men in charge of those records have other duties.

All those members of the class who have felt the urge to service in literary pursuits. Debates and orations have
called a number of them to make a good showing for Davidson. Parker, Bowie, Hollingsworth, Ratcliffe, Shaw, Pullen, and others
have shown a marked proficiency. The class has shown its aptitude for every endeavor that it has engaged upon. It
has made its visible impression upon the life of the campus and its going will be keenly felt by those
who have come to know the true gentlemen who make up this Senior class.

Nine Honorary Degrees Are Conferred On Widely Known Men by Board of Trustees

Men Who Have Made Notable Record in Life Selected at Mid-Winter Session

Nine honorary degrees will be conferred by Davidson College Wednesday morning at the final exercises of the commencement program, these
being announced last February following the mid-winter meeting of the board of trustees of Davidson College. Three of the degrees
are doctor of divinity, four doctor of laws, one doctor of pedagogy, and one doctor of sciences. All of the
men honored are prominent in their various lines of activity.

Doctor of divinity degrees will be conferred upon Rev. W. R. Coppedge, of Rockingham, who has done notable work in
the small churches of the state, and has worked consistently along educational lines; Rev. L. L. Little, of Kiangyin, China,
for 20 years a missionary in that foreign country, doing commendable work; and Rev. J. E. Purcell, of Chattanooga, Tenn.,
executive chairman of the men of the Southern Presbyterian Assembly.

The four men who will receive degrees of doctor of laws are C. E. Diehl, of Memphis, Tenn., president of
Southwestern, which was formerly known as Southwestern Presbyterian College, located at Clarksville, Tenn.; John R. Todd, of New York, head
of a great engineering concern; Col. Wade H. Harris, of Charlotte, editor of The Observer, and for over 50 years
connected with newspaper work, his work being particularly constructive to the Piedmont section; and Hon. A. M. Scales, of Greensboro,
lawyer and financier of that city, head of the $1,000,000 drive of Presbyterian institutions in North Carolina several years ago,
and the speaker who will deliver the literary address tomorrow morning.

Prof. M. C. S. Noble, dean of the University of North Carolina department of education, and father of the psychology
and education professor at Davidson the past school year, will be given a degree of doctor of pedagogy. A doctor
of science degree will be awarded to Dr. A. J. Crowell, of Charlotte, head of the Crowell Clinic, which is
one of the largest in the South. Dr. Crowell’s methods as a surgeon have gained international reputation.

FOUR SENIORS MAKE OVER 98 PER CENT

Announcement was made a week ago by F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, that four members of the Senior class had made
a record for the past year which can well merit the characterization of phenomenal, that number of the present graduation
class making a percentage of above 98 for their nine-months’ course. R. W. Graves led the list with 98.70 per
cent, followed by A. H. Hollingsworth with 98.49, while R. B. Parker and H. L. Shaw averaged 98.16. There are
a number of students who were known to average above 95 per cent, but this has not been released yet.
Perhaps the most unusual in the group of four above is Graves. For the first semester he averaged 98.75, and
but for an excess number of excused absences would have averaged 99.35 for the last semester, which is considered one
of the best ever made. Even with his handicap he led the class. The record of the class as a
whole for the past year is better than that of any class previously finishing at Davidson, the general average going
well over 90. For the first semester 54 of the 94 averaged above 90 per cent, and when final compilations
are made for the last semester it is believed that this record will be shattered.

MEDALS TO BE GIVEN AT SENIOR EXERCISES

The college will award several medals at commencement to the men who have shown ability in the respective lines. The
Alumni Association medal will be awarded to the Freshman with the highest scholastic average for the year. This medal was
won by D. H. Howard last year. The Senior orator’s medal will be given to the winner of the Senior
oratorical contest on Monday night; the Junior orator’s medal being awarded to W. H. Branch. The William Banks Biblical medal
will be awarded to the Senior who has the record in Biblical lines. Several members of the class stand close
in the race for this medal.
