THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1926

CHAMELEON TO MAKE FIRST APPEARANCE OF YEAR SOON

South Carolinians Plan For Expansion Program

New Men Initiated in First Meeting of Year—Club Has Plans for Year

The initial meeting of the South Carolina Club was held last week in the Eu Hall. The meeting was in
the nature of a combination feed and initiation get-together. President T. G. McCutcheon took charge of the ceremonies and a
committee in charge of the initiation, headed by Bob Link, vice-president of the club, ran the Fresh through the neophytic
stage and into full membership. One of the features of the program was several contests staged by the men of
the class of ’30. Much to the chagrin of the new men, they were forced to take part in stunts,
all of which amused the upperclassmen to a hilarious extent.

After talks by the president and by a number of members of the faculty who are South Carolinians, the club
outlined several plans by which more men from the Palmetto State may be brought to Davidson as freshmen next fall.
The members were urged to start immediately a campaign to get men, who are leaders in the various branches of
endeavor in high school circles, lined up for the Wildcat lair. Much enthusiasm was shown and a few probable yearlings
for next year were mentioned.

Shortly following this discussion the refreshment committee began functioning, ice cream, fruit, candies, and smokes being offered to the club
members and its guests. The present officers of the club are: President, T. G. McCutcheon; Vice President, Bob Link; Secretary
and Treasurer, Bill Bailey.

(Continued from page 1)

The general alarm will be the rapid striking of the college bell. The person making the alarm will stay at
the bell tower until the arrival of the Chief Fire Marshal. He will then take necessary steps to direct the
hose and ladder company to the scene of the fire. During the year 1925, the loss of property by fire
in the United States reached the immense amount of $570,000,000. In addition to this great property loss, thousands of lives
were sacrificed. A big fire at Davidson College would seriously handicap the activities of the college, at least temporarily, and
for this reason, the R. O. T. C. Battalion will make every effort to reach a high degree of proficiency
in the near future. Fire drills will be held frequently, the location of all fire plugs in the town of
Davidson will be learned by members of the hose and ladder company, and details for quickly extinguishing a fire will
be arranged. The college fire fighting facilities combined with the facilities owned by the town are adequate to cope with
any ordinary fire.

COLLEGE JEWELRY: Watches and Clocks, Sheaffer Pens and Pencils, Seal Stationery, Pennants and Pillows, Wildcat Belts, Athletic Supplies. W. S.
HENDERSON, Jeweler, DAVIDSON, N.C.

H. M. Austin, editor-in-chief of The Chameleon, the Davidson College Magazine, calls for material for the first issue to be
turned in at once. All those who intend to write for The Chameleon are urged to turn in all copy
immediately as the limiting date set for the publication of the first issue is set at October 19. It is
the desire of the staff to make the illustrations a feature of the new magazine. But to do this the
staff needs several men with drawing ability. Anyone who can draw for the Magazine, and is willing to help the
staff, is urged to see H. M. Austin, in 32 Georgia, at once. The material for The Chameleon has been
divided into three groups: short stories, essays, and poetry. There is a man in charge of each department to receive
the manuscript and make necessary corrections. Contributors to the magazine are asked to turn in the short stories to Warren
Ogden, 25 Georgia; essays to Don Wharton, 33 Georgia, and poetry to J. H. Caligan, 9 Rumple. The new journal
will be a distinct innovation among Davidson publications. It will differ in appearance, make-up, content, and editorial policy, from magazines
published at Davidson in the past. The first fall issue of The Chameleon will appear at the last of this
month, and the second shortly before the Christmas holidays. According to the present plans, these two issues will be the
only ones published before Christmas.

Annual Pictures to be Taken This Week

At a recent meeting of the Fresh and Soph classes, it was decided that all the students should have individual
pictures in the 1927 Quips and Cranks. This will make twice as many pictures as the annual has had here
tofore. The pictures will be taken in the Quips and Cranks office in the next two weeks. Mr. Gratkrise, representative
of White Studios, New York, arrived last Friday and began making arrangements. These pictures will be taken during the next
two weeks. The proofs will be returned to the student in about three weeks. All students may take as many
pictures as they desire for their own purposes.T.-C. a fire protection unit will afford a sense of security to property
owners in Davidson and there is a possibility that the first insurance rates may be reduced somewhat because of this
protection.

ABE LINCOLN (Continued from page 1) snapped his right wrist. A medical exam showed it to be broken just above
the wrist, and Abe was lost to the Wildcats for the rest of the season.

(President Obregon 35 MEMBERS MARIMBA BAND Tipica Orchestra of Mexico's Official Orchestra) Auditorium, Charlotte, N.C. on November 2 STRINGED INSTRUMENTS
NOTHING LIKE IT ON EARTH "Worth the price to hear them play La Paloma" 8 SOLOISTS "HARP AND C" Tickets
at Parker-Gardner Co. Prices $3.85, $2.75, $1.65

Calendar
Thursday, October 7
7:30—Literary Societies—Eumenean Society, Philanthropic Society.
Friday, October 8
4:00—Band practice—Armory.
7:30—International Relations Club.
8:00—Glee Club practice—Shearer Hall.
8:00—Alpha Phi Epsilon.
Saturday, October 9
2:00—Football—Guilford vs. Davidson.
8:00—Movie—La Bohème, with Lillian Gish and John Gilbert.
Sunday, October 10
11:15—Church—Dr. Frazer, of Queens College.
1:45—Christian Endeavor Training Class Progressive Endeavor.
2:30—Ministerial Band.
6:15—Y.M.C.A. Vespers—Student Worship Service—Speakers: Bill Covington and Ronald Wilson.
Monday, October 11
7:00—Glee Club Practice—Shearer Hall.
7:30—Court of Control—Parlor of Watts.
9:00—Omicron Delta Kappa.
Tuesday, October 12
7:00—Band practice—Armory.
7:30—Sigma Pi Sigma.
7:30—Literary Societies—Pandemie Society, Junior Philanthropic Society.
9:00—Delta Pi Kappa.
Wednesday, October 13
7:00—Glee Club practice—Shearer Hall.
9:00—Seabbard and Blade—Armory.

The Sorbonne, oldest of European universities, now permits student dances but forbids jazz.

Amusement for Solomon’s Wives
Music Teacher—“When was jazz first begun?”
Hodgkin—“In the reign of Solomon.”
Music Teacher—“Why do you think that?”
Hodgkin—“Well, when the two mothers went before Solomon to claim their child, didn’t one of them say ‘Yes, that’s my
baby’?”

Spike McGee Chosen to Serve on Fresh Court
Junior Chosen to Fill Vacant Place on Court of Control
J. L. (Spike) McGee, of Charleston, W. Va., was selected by the Student Council to fill the vacancy in the
Court of Control, made by Joe Overton's inability to return to college. McGee is very popular in the student body,
being elected to the position of Assistant Cheer Leader only last week. He has had charge of Freshman work on
the athletic field during this year. McGee is a member of the Pyramid Club. Several sessions of the court have
been held and a number of caps of that yellow hue have made their appearance on the campus. The present
Court of Control has made several changes in the Freshman regulations. An entirely different cap replaces the one of the
old style and a change was made in the arrangement of the regulations which appear in every Freshman’s room. The
membership of the 1926-27 court is: Lincoln, judge; Murchison, Anderson, Wilson, Withers, McGee, Kane, and King.

VICTORY THEATRE MOORESVILLE, N.C.: WEEKLY PROGRAMME
Friday, Oct 8—The Sap, with Kenneth Harlan.
Saturday, Oct. 9—Wild Horse Stampede with Jack Hoxie.
Monday, Oct. 11—The Lily, with Belle Bennett.
Tuesday, Oct. 12—War Paint, a Metro-Goldwyn picture.
Wednesday, Oct. 13—Diplomacy, a Paramount picture.
Thursday, Oct. 14—Amateur Gentleman, a First National picture.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson's Filling Station, DAVIDSON, N.C.

With the hemispherical integrator, the illuminating engineer measures light intensities and distribution. These laboratory findings are practically applied to improve
our everyday illumination. The General Electric Company is the world’s largest manufacturer of incandescent lamps. And behind the G-E MAZDA
lamps are vast research laboratories dedicated to cheaper and better electric illumination, and to the conservation of eyesight. A series
of G-E advertisements showing what electricity is doing in many fields will be sent on request. Ask for booklet GEK-1.

When the sun goes down
More than 350,000,000 incandescent lamps, with a combined light of nine billion candlepower, make city streets, stores, and homes brighter
than ever before. In bungalow or mansion, workshop or factory, dormitory or auditorium, there is no excuse for poor illumination.
We have cheaper and better lighting in the electric lamp than ever before; for the dollar that bought 1,115 candlepower-hours
of light with the carbon-filament lamps of 1886, now buys 16,200 candlepower-hours of light with the MAZDA lamps. Not only
more light, but correctly applied light, is the order of the day. The electric lamp, with its flameless yet highly
concentrated light source, lends itself ideally to reflectors, shades, and screens. It is controlled light—safe light. And illumination becomes an
exact science. During college days and in after life, correct lighting must ever be of paramount importance to the college
man and woman. Good lighting is the worthy handmaiden of culture and progress.
