TH EDAVI Vol. XIII FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 6, 1926 SONIAN No. 30

College Editors Reiterate Stand For Freedom of Press

E. G. Moore Delivers Keynote Address Before Delegates

OFFICERS ELECTED

The Technician Wins Over the Davidsonian in Vote for Best College Paper

The eleventh semi-annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association was held at Guilford College, April 29, 30, and
May 1, with approximately 35 delegates representing 12 institutions attending the meetings. The delegates were entertained and provided for by
the staff of The Guilfordian, weekly paper of Guilford College. At these meetings, The Technician, weekly paper of N.C. State
College, was chosen as the best college newspaper in North Carolina. The Davidsonian was awarded second place, and The Tar
Heel, tri-weekly paper of the University of North Carolina, was chosen for third place. In the magazines, The Archive, Duke
University, was chosen as the best college magazine in North Carolina and the College Magazine, of the University of North
Carolina, was awarded second place.

The officers of the association for the coming year were also chosen at this convention. They are as follows: Byron
Haworth, Guilford College, president; V. S. Broyles, Davidson College, first vice-president; Miss Sallie Gordon, of Greensboro, second vice-president; John Anderson,
of N. C. State, treasurer; and Miss Dorothy Siewers, of Salem College, secretary.

The convention was addressed Thursday evening by Mr. William K. Hoyt, business manager of the Winston-Salem Journal, who spoke on
the history and progress of the press in North Carolina, and also gave a number of ideas very valuable to
the members of the association. The convention was formally opened on Friday morning by the president, E. G. Moore, of
N. C. State College, which was followed by the invocation (Continued on page 6)

“Y” Conference to Be At Blue Ridge Beginning June 17

The annual Y. M. C. A. conference of college students will be held at Blue Ridge, N. C., from June
15 to June 24. About 600 young men from colleges and universities all over the South will be present to
hear a most notable group of speakers.

Talks will be made by the following men on the problems that confront the student of today: G. Sherwood Eddy,
world traveler and scholar; J. Stitt Wilson, noted sociologist, well known to Davidson men; W. D. Weatherford, president of the
Blue Ridge Association; Dean Thomas W. Graham; Mordecai W. Johnson, an expert on the racial problem, and many other great
speakers.

Blue Ridge, in the prettiest of the North Carolina mountains, is admirably equipped in every particular. Facilities are provided for
every sport, and the proximity of many of the famous beauty spots of the state furnishes excellent opportunity for hikes.
The buildings are large and spacious and almost luxuriously furnished.

During the ten days, the mornings will, for the most part, be occupied with study in large and small groups,
with a sufficient amount of individual instruction. The afternoon will be passed in sports and recreation of various kinds. This
follows the Young People’s Conference here, and those attending here can go directly to Blue Ridge. The Y. M. C.
A. pays the railroad fare of the first ten men signing up. The conference is an annual affair and is
attended by delegates from all of the leading colleges and universities of the South. The grounds are owned and controlled
by the national Y. M. C. A. and represent a large investment. A number of other conferences are held there
each summer during June and July. Last summer over 350 Southern students, (Continued on page 6)

Dr. Daniels, Noted Humorist, Speak Friday Night On “The Looking Glass”

Dr. D. W. Daniels, of Clemson College, one of the most noted speakers in the South, gave a highly humorous
and entertaining address on “The Looking Glass,” in Shearer Hall last Friday night. Dr. Daniels could be called the leading
humorist of the South, and in his speech he duly upheld this title. For a number of years, he was
engaged on a well-known lyceum circuit and was heard throughout the United States, being greatly in demand. Dr. Daniels’ speech
has been described as the best thing that ever hit Davidson.

Dr. J. W. McConnell introduced the speaker in short order and stated that he was afraid to make a joke
of the occasion because he knew that Dr. Daniels was too able to turn the tables on him, this having
been done the night before in Charlotte. He was unable to stem the tide, however, and was made the butt
of one of his jokes as the opening number.

Dr. Daniels kept the audience in an uproar for the first 20 minutes, cracking one joke after another until his
hearers ached with laughter. He then turned to his real subject, “The Looking Glass.” The looking glass, he said, is
one of the most peculiar of all objects. In it, we see a complete reflection of ourselves but without depth.
It is only an outward view, and one which means little to our lives. We should seek to see deeper
into the looking glass and to find the real virtues of life. Beauty of body is one thing that is
shown by the looking glass, but beauty of soul and mind is hidden from its vision, but the latter is
the most desirable of the two qualities. Outward ugliness may contain a heart of gold.

Unselfishness is another quality which is beyond the depth of the looking glass and is one of the most desirable
of all qualities. Love likewise is an inanimate quality which is unseen by the mirror. Both of these are among
the most vital and necessary of human qualities which are required of the successful man.

The last and most vital of all qualities which is hidden from the looking glass is a man’s religious convictions.
These contain the whole man. If we were able to see these in the mirror, how ashamed some of us
would be of our image. We should strive to make our inner image as desirable as our outward one.

Dr. Daniels is one of the most versatile of speakers. His talks are divided into three main classes: wholly humorous,
semi-humorous, and entirely serious. His speech last Friday fell into the second of these divisions. Dr. Daniels has made it
a practice never to charge an educational institution, feeling that the privilege of speaking to the nation’s future citizens is
enough recompense.

This was Dr. Daniels’ first appearance at Davidson, and he has aroused much comment among the students, especially in comparison
to Stephen Leacock, the noted humorist.

Davidson Trackmen Take Fourth Place in Annual Meet at State College

Goodykoontz Scores Twelve Points for Davidson Team

CAROLINA WINS

Jennings Breaks College Record in Pole Vault Clearing Bar at Eleven Feet

Both the varsity and freshman teams won fourth place for Davidson in the Annual State Olympic track and field meet
held in Raleigh on Riddick Field Friday and Saturday of last week. Entering only six varsity and five freshmen, the
Wildcat teams scored 22 points in the varsity and 19 in the freshman meets.

Harry Goodykoontz and Bob Kell continued their fine showing in the dashes by winning both the varsity and freshman 440-yard
races, Goodykoontz also placing second in the two-twenty and third in the hundred, Kell placed fourth in the two-twenty.

Hamp Jennings cleared the bar for 11 feet in the pole vault, tying for the first place with a Carolina
and State man, and at the same time breaking the Davidson College record by one-quarter of an inch. The other
men placing in the varsity meet were: Calhoun, B. M., tied for high jump; R. Calhoun, fifth in the same
event; Penn, fourth in the two-mile run. Freshmen placing besides Kell were Flynn, second in the dash, Frye, second in
the low hurdles, and a tie for fifth in the pole vault; Ely, fifth in the mile run.

The summary follows: (Continued on page 8)

Setzer of Lenoir-Rhyne Wins Peace Oratoricals

J. H. Harrell of the University of North Carolina is Winner of Second Prize

Mr. Roy Setzer, representing Lenoir-Rhyne College, was awarded first place in the Peace Oratorical Contest which was held in Shearer
Hall Monday night. Mr. Setzer’s subject was, “A"Little Child Shall Lead Them." Second place was given to Mr. J. H.
Harrell, of the University of North Carolina, whose subject was "The Task of Modern Society." Elon College was represented by
Mr. Wayne E. Snow, Wake Forest by Mr. O. L. Norment, Duke University by Mr. Linwood B. Hollowell, Guilford College
by Mr. Byron A. Haworth, and Davidson by Mr. A. H. Hollingsworth. Preceding the delivery of the orations, music was
rendered by the Symphony Orchestra, and several numbers were given throughout the program. Rev. R. S. Burwell gave the invocation.
Prof. Thomas W. Lingle, who was the presiding officer, introduced Prof. Elwood C. Perisho, of Guilford College, who told something
of the work of the Peace Association. He told of the founding, 21 years ago, at Richmond, Ind., and of
the meeting held the next year in Cincinnati. He stated that the organization was established in North Carolina at State
College during the spring of last year. The meeting at Davidson was the second that has been held in this
state. Professor Perisho said that from the associations that were now established throughout the country, much interest is being manifested
and over 150 institutions are now engaged in writing and discussing the question of Peace. The judges of the contest
were: Mr. L. P. Green (Princeton), Mr. A. D. Skelding (Yale), Mr. J. R. Terrell (The Citadel), all being from
Charlotte. Mr. Snow, who was the first speaker, chose as his subject "Peace Rather Than War." He developed his oration
in a very forcible manner, pleading, all the while, for "one question in which the Church should take no active
part."

(Continued on page 6)

Baseball Team Splits Series of Four Games on North Carolina-Virginia Trip

Guilford Wins From Wildcats in Hectic Game

Debaters Lose to University of the South at Sewanee

Laird Wins Over V. M. I. 7-5—W. and L. Wins by Lopsided Score of 11-2

In a torrential contest, which Sewanee students and officials declared to be the closest and most interesting debate that has
been held in the Sewanee Union in many years, a Davidson team, composed of Harllee Branch, Jr. and Don Wharton,
were defeated in a two-to-one decision by a Sewanee team, composed of Teague and McBlane. The two teams spoke before
one of the largest audiences that has gathered to hear a debate at Sewanee and the audience was especially attentive
to and appreciative of the efforts of the various speakers. The question discussed was, "Resolved, That the United States should
institute a Department of National Defense, headed by a Secretary of National Defense, with sub-secretaries of Army, Navy, and Air."
The Sewanee team preserved its enviable record of success, and still remains undefeated. McBlane, speaking first for the Sewanee team,
clearly outlined the various issues involved, and explained the contentions that were to be made by the proponents of the
new plan. He vehemently opposed the present system, and offered numerous arguments to prove that the existing system of national
defense was replete with evils, and sadly in need of progress and development. He was followed by his colleague, Teague,
who continued the affirmative's attack on the present system, and also outlined the advantages to be secured under a change
of policy. Don Wharton spoke first for Davidson, and his arguments were clear and well delivered. He argued for the
present system, and offered numerous facts to prove that the existing plan was such as to efficiently care for expansion,
development, co-ordination, and improvements. Branch, who followed Wharton, centered his attack on the proposed plan, and devoted the greater part
of his main speech to this.

(Continued on page 5)

The Davidson baseball team returned Monday afternoon from a trip through Virginia. On this trip they won games from V.
M. I. and Roanoke College and dropped contests to Washington and Lee and Guilford. The first game was played at
Winston-Salem against Guilford. The game was slow with few features, Rabb, pitching for Guilford, holding the Wildcats in check all
through the game and neither of the two runs secured by Davidson were earned. Huie started in the box for
Davidson, and except for the first inning, was hit hard by the Quakers. He was relieved by Oden in the
seventh, who held the Guilford team scoreless the rest of the game.

DAVIDSON. AB R H O A
W'dham, 1b 5 0 0 10 0
J. G'ley, ss 4 0 1 2 1
W. G'ley, cf 4 0 0 2 0
Laird, rf-3b 4 0 1 1 0
Dulin, 3b 3 0 0 1 2
Bing, c 4 0 0 6 0
G. G'ley, lf 4 0 0 0 0
Johnson, cf 4 0 0 2 0
Huie, p 3 0 0 0 1
Oden, p 1 0 0 0 0
Davis 1 0 0 0 0
Totals 35 2 6 24 9

GUILFORD. AB R H O A
Cutt, cf 5 1 2 2 0
Fetzer, lf 4 1 1 2 0
Nye, 3b 4 1 1 1 2
Smith, 1b 4 1 2 12 0
English, ss 4 0 1 3 3

(Continued on page 8)

Judge Currie Speaks On Present Day Evils of the Church at "Y" Service

Judge Currie, of Charlotte, gave an interesting and inspiring address before the Y. M. C. A. last Sunday night on
the evils existing in the Protestant Church today. Only about 150 boys were in attendance. Aside from the regular address
the quartet sang a very beautiful selection. Dr. McConnell introduced the speaker. In opening his talk Judge Currie stated that
most speakers at the Y. M. C. A. talked about the religious side of the Church, but that he wished
to tell a few of the evils that existed in the Church today in order that his hearers might be
better able to carry on the work of the Church in after years. The Church is a religious and not
a political organization, he said. In the olden times, government was controlled by the Church as in the case of
the Roman Catholic and Established English Churches. This control, he stated, has been greatly decreased during the past century but
the Protestant Church has now taken up the practice of indulging in political issues. As an example of the above
fact he gave a brief outline of the report of the Federal Council of Churches in America. In this report
the council stated the object of its work. The main object was to bring the United States into the World
Court, which he stated was a purely political question. Two other objects were to outlaw war and to repeal the
law concerning Japanese immigration. These also are entirely political questions in which the Church should take no active part. In
further proving his statements Judge Currie gave a report of the Methodist Federation for the past year. This organization is
entirely supported by the Church and is a complete political organization. It maintains a large office building as its headquarters
in Washington, just across from the capitol building. The organization has an active lobbyist in the halls of Congress and
moreover maintains a private detective agency to aid the government in law enforcement. The main object of its work is
the maintenance of the Volstead Act. Money is donated by the Church for religious work in order that the Gospel
may be carried throughout the world. Political work is not in line with this object and the principles of the
Church as outlined in the Bible. As soon as any church begins to engage in political work they begin to
forget their main work. The Roman Catholic Church is a glaring example of this fact. In closing the speaker urged
his hearers to consider this problem and whenever they became actively engaged in church work to oppose any political efforts
which the church might make. Judge Currie is the newly appointed city judge of Charlotte. He was formerly city clerk
and has been actively engaged in law during the past few years in Charlotte. He is a brother of John
Currie, the phenomenal track star who was forced to leave school in February. Only two more regular "Y" services remain
this year.

(Continued on page 3)
