THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1926

NEW PICTURE SHOW
(Continued from page 1)

have not been worked out, so the price cannot be stated at this time. Jim Pinkney is the student representative,
and several of the other students will in all probability assist in the operation of the theater. This is a
need that has been felt for a long time at Davidson, in the past the boys having to go to
Mooresville or Charlotte if they desired to see a show through the week. Now this need has been met, and
this should eliminate hasty trips to the above places. The show has assured the town of wholesome pictures, so this
ought to afford the boys a place where they may enjoy wholesome entertainment at a nominal fee.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

No more restless dress shirts that bulge in front or puff up in front when you do your stuff on
the dance floor. We've perfected a dress shirt that is obedient, gentle, well-behaved and comfortable, $3. When we speak glowingly
of our perfectly made evening clothes, their fit, style, materials and tailoring, our statements need not be taken with the
proverbial grain of salt. Tuxedo coat and trousers $40 and $50. If you buy for less they’re not as good.
38-40 So. Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Many Matches Arranged for Tennis Team While on Trip Through South
Gamecocks and Yellow Jackets to be Met for First Time in Several Years

According to a recent announcement by H. M. Austin, varsity tennis manager, Washington and Lee University has cancelled its engagement
to meet the Wildcat court performers during Junior Speaking. If possible, another inter-collegiate match will be substituted. In case a
match with another team cannot be arranged, the Wildcats will meet the Charlotte Country Club during Speaking.

On April 10th the University of South Carolina sends a team to Davidson. This is the first meeting on the
court in many years between the Wildcats and the Gamecocks. Besides this match, two other matches on the Hill will
be arranged. Following this match a trip through South Carolina and Georgia has been planned with the following tentative schedule:
April 13th—Furman at Greenville or Emory at Atlanta.
April 14th—Georgia Tech at Atlanta.
April 15th—Clemson at Clemson.
April 16th—Return match with Carolina at Columbia.

The Georgia Tech match will be the first meeting between Davidson and Tech on the tennis court in six years.
Tech has a strong team, and Davidson will doubtless encounter stiff opposition. Last year Davidson defeated Clemson by a considerable
margin. Captain McCutcheon is the only varsity letter man returning to school this year. From last year’s varsity squad Mack
Austin, Don Stuart, Wood Brown, and Jim McAlpine are back. Bob McMillan, from last year's fresh team, should prove valuable.
The team has been crippled by the loss of Bob Crosland. Crosland was an extraordinarily good tennis player, and he
had been showing rare form in practice this last fall. Mack Lockhart, of last year’s fresh team, has also left
school.

Faculty Golfers Play First Round

The Faculty Golf Tournament which began last week has progressed to the second round. This is the first tournament ever
sponsored by the Davidson Faculty although a number of the members are experienced players and devotees of the game. There
were 16 entries in the contest consisting of several men from town as well as professors. Much interest is being
shown by the participants and within a short while this will undoubtedly have a regular place on the calendar of
events at Davidson.

In the first round Mr. Harry Elliott defeated Mr. “Bo” Elliott 2 up, while Mr. Kauffelt lost to Mr. Hobart
9 up. Professor Blythe won over Dr. Arbuckle, Professor Mebane was the victor in his match with Professor Davis by
a score of 4 up, and Professor Goldiers won from Dr. Currie. Mr. Magill defaulted to Mr. Hillhouse, and Professor
Fulcher won by default from Dr. Noble. Professor Wood and Dr. McConnell have not played their match yet. One match
has been played in the second round.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Don Wharton

The Inter-fraternity basketball tournament is over but its effect is just started. The trend of the leading colleges of America
today is toward more sports for the ordinary college man without less emphasis on varsity teams. Inter-dormitory basketball should be
started. This will relieve the feeling that the fraternities are taking all the privileges of the gymnasium. These two tournaments
would be on equal basis, the two winners playing each other for the championship of the campus. Davidson seems to
be falling in line with that. Inter-fraternity basketball is just a beginning. Next year the intra-mural sports should be much
higher developed.

Wildcat Baseball Team to Meet Quantico Nine in Season’s First Game
Men Rapidly Rounding Into Shape Under Tutelage of Coaches Mattax and Hengeveld

Manager Bill Spencer announced that the Davidson baseball team will meet the United States Marines from Quantico, on Richardson Field
on Thursday, March 18th. This is the second game that Manager Spencer has scheduled with famous baseball nines from other
states. Oak Ridge has also changed the date of the first game in order not to conflict with the high
school track meet.

Coach Monk Mattox, Coach Hengeveld, and Captain Frank Alford are priming the baseball team for the first game of the
season which is scheduled for March 18th. The team is somewhat handicapped due to the fact that some of the
men who are on the team of last year, these being Johnson, Edgar, Edwards, and Maulden. Two of last year's
hurlers have returned this year.the persons of Flake Laird and Lefty Oden. Sappenfield, Huie, Maulden, and Hampton have also been
serving as moundsmen during the workouts.

“I saw your girl on the street.”
“Oh you did? Did you see her gold tooth?”
“No, she had her mouth shut.”
“Then you didn’t see my girl.”

We stand shoulder to shoulder

Jimmy Wharton, Dick Carr, and the team have rounded with the exception of one match. If the recent series did
nothing more than impress the Davidson student body with the lack of sufficient facilities for inter-mural sports, it would be
well worth its while. Davidson is gradually pulling up in its standing in inter-collegiate athletics, but something more should be
done for the encouragement of inter-mural sports. Tennis, for example, is a sport that will thrive as students are given
more and better opportunities to play the game themselves. Davidson rates higher in this sport probably than any other at
the college with the exception of possibly football since the advent of Coaches Younger and Tilson. But there is at
Davidson no court that is in the condition for a varsity match. Davidson needs more tennis courts; Davidson needs an
addition to the gymnasium with one or more basketball courts in it. Of course, one could write all day of
the needs of Davidson, but these two are really necessities for the proper development of the health of the students.
What are we going to do about it?

Next week will see the first baseball game of the year, with the U.S. Marines from Quantico up in Virginia
coming to Davidson. The athletic authorities at Oak Ridge are to be commended on their attitude in changing the date
of the baseball games. The high school track meet was scheduled for March 26th and then it was found that
Oak Ridge would play here on the 25th and 26th. Their willingness to change both dates helped the Davidson authorities
out of a bad hole.

The announcement of a tennis meet with Georgia Tech in Atlanta brings back memories of those never-to-be-forgotten football games on
Grant Field. Time was when Davidson would draw a great crowd in the Gate City of the South even though
the Wildcats were doped to lose by a whole handful of touchdowns. Last year we could talk of our basketball
victory over the Yellow Jackets. Maybe the tennis team will give us a little to talk about now.

Professor Blythe defeated Mr. Hobart 2 up in the round. The remainder of the contests will be played within the
next few days, but the date for the finals has not yet been set.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
“SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING”
Charlotte, N.C.

Championships may come, and championships may go, but a victory over Tech runs on forever, and we'll never be contented
till Coach Younger's Wildcats have a chance at the Yellow Jackets, even though prospects were a trifle gloomy.

GASTONIA SHRINERS
(Continued from page 1)
have been especially popular in many of the cities in which it has been presented. The price of admission will
be 50 cents. Proceeds from the concert will be divided equally between the “Y” and the Senior class. The “Y”
is aiding a mission school and the Senior class is going to use its share in financing commencement.

The squad is still out for spring training football. But a goodly number are showing up every day to try
for positions and the team is rapidly rounding into shape. This spring, we have just their kind of clothes. We
know their likes and dislikes. We talk their language.

All letter men of last year have been issued uniforms and several others who are showing up well have also
been issued them. There will be a number of places filled by new men when the first game is called
due to the large number of letter men lost by graduation last year, only six who have made their letters
on the team before now being out. A new man will fill the position of catcher where Sim Wrenn held
forth in full sway last year. Captain Alford has been playing here some during the practice, and McGeachy is also
showing up well here. At first, Woodham will most likely play, since he made his letter there last season. The
places of short and second will be open, but there are a number of candidates out for these positions. Johnny
Kugler, Abe Kugler, Sobby Glenn, and Kuykendall are among those considered to fill these places.

Joe McConnell, who has been rather a dark horse on the team, has been forced to give up baseball for
a week due to his illness. During the last season, McConnell served as a pinch hitter, but he has been
going so well this season that it is very likely that he will make a place on the team. At
third, Johnny Dulin has been showing rare form and will most likely start there in the first game. In the
outfield, Davis and Vance are the only letter men back, but there are some very likely candidates from the fresh
team.

We might add that our clothing department is loaded to the gills this spring. You'll like all of it. Thanks
for the courtesy shown to our representatives Thursday. Now it’s your time to visit us.

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach, and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
MORALLY CONDUCTED
“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)
Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte

Visit Our New Fountain When in Charlotte
Tryon Drug Co.
Agents...
Hollingsworth
Nunnally
Whitman Candies
Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
