THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1926

Columbia Seminary Head Gives Students Inspiring Message Sunday Evening

“Loyalty to Our King” is Dr. Gillespie’s Subject in Vespers

HOLDS CONFERENCES
Makes Headquarters in “Y” Room for Two Days to Advise Students

Dr. Richard T. Gillespie, class of ‘04, now president of Columbia Theological Seminary, spoke to the students at the regular Sunday vesper service on the subject of “Loyalty to Our King.” In his address, Dr. Gillespie took as the basis of his remarks the text John 11:16: “Let us also go, that we may die with him.” He stressed the loyalty of Christ's disciples and that of some outstanding Christians in history, and concluded with a strong appeal for loyalty today, the great need for it.

By way of introduction, Dr. Gillespie explained the event at which the text was uttered by Thomas. Jesus had barely escaped death in Jerusalem and had gone over beyond the Jordan. Upon hearing of the illness of Lazarus, He was resolved to return to Jerusalem in spite of the fate which He knew awaited Him there and in opposition to the wishes of His disciples who tried to dissuade Him. It was then, when they saw that He would go, that Thomas declared his loyalty by calling on the disciples to go with Him to almost inevitable death for all.

“I have not gone to a dictionary for a definition of loyalty,” said the speaker. “It is set before us in Thomas. Loyalty is love finding expression in service, or better, loyalty is love in action. Loyalty to our King is the final characterization of a Christian.”

“The earliest disciples had a fine opportunity to prove their loyalty and on most occasions did prove it. Peter proved his loyalty when he would have placed a crown on His head, and again when he drew his sword to strike the only blow which was offered in defense of our Lord. John and James wanted to call down fire to consume a village which refused Christ. Mary and Martha proved their loyalty by their constant attention to the needs and comfort of the Master. Then Thomas, in the words of the text, showed the extent of the loyalty of the disciples.”

“We must prove our loyalty just as well. Jesus is with us always. One privilege which the true Christian values most is daily personal communion with the Master. And there is not a greater need for unswerving loyalty than presents itself today. He is assaulted from every quarter. Concerning His life, death, even His very nature, foes from every side are combining to wreck His work. When doubt is creeping into the minds of men, there is need for men whose lives are yielded in service.”

“The kingdom has extended its border, not to a tramp, tramp, to the tune of music, but through loyalty, service, our consecration and And if the kingdom keeps growing, it is because you and I and others are loyal to Him.”

The speaker then reviewed the works of some great men in history, including Abraham, Moses, the disciples, Martin Luther, John Knox, and David Livingstone, showing how they were loyal and what their loyalty cost them. Then, in making his appeal for loyalty, Dr. Gillespie said, “My friends, if we would prove our loyalty we must yield to Him and follow Him. There comes to us a call of human need on every hand. Men are spiritually destitute. Moral depravity has spread everywhere. Today whenever there is human need, the heart of Jesus is stirred with compassion. We find Him pressing on as He set His face to Jerusalem where there were people waiting for His coming. Today, He calls me and you. The final test of our fitness to call Him Lord is our loyalty to Him. If we would be true disciples, we must have the spirit of Thomas.”

“I am glad,” he concluded, “that it was Thomas who said this. He was dull and stupid, and was not impulsive. It was Thomas who said, ‘We know not whither they go.’ It was Thomas who did not believe when told of the resurrection. It was Thomas, slow to understand, who manifested this best example of loyalty of all discipleship. He turned to His disciples and challenged them. We must have this spirit of Thomas. May God help you who have given your hearts to Christ. May God help you to find in your soul this spirit of love, and thus prove your loyalty to your King.”

Dr. Gillespie impressed his hearers by his earnestness and sincerity, and by his deep consecration to his task in life. He remained marital.

Rifle Team Finish Competitive Firing

During the past week, the contenders for the Rifle Marksmanship Team completed their competitive firing with results that favor great success for the team this year. The ten highest men and their points are given below:

Webb, J. B., 745.
Brown, C. C., 719.
Short, F. L., 714.
Abernathy, R. G., 708.
Alexander, G. W., 702.
Alexander, W. A., 702.
Lake, J., 686.
Gudger, J. M., 683.
Taylor, C. W., 678.
Overton, J., 652.

This firing was done in four stages. The stages and total scores for each were as follows:

1. Prone and sitting, 1,819.
2. Prone and kneeling, 1,749.
3. Prone and standing, 1,584.
4. Prone and prone, 1,937.

Each stage held a possible 2,000.

Sanity Rare Goes to Press Early This Month

Junior Magazine to Feature Short Stories and Numerous Jokes

All the contributions of humor, art, and narration for the Junior class publication, Sanity Rare, which is to be one of the features of the glorious entertainment, Junior Speaking, are in and the work is now in the hands of a committee of the faculty who will give it their inspection. This edition of the publication is to be larger than the one of last year and will live up to all expectations as a laugh-producer. The committee of faculty members appointed to look over the magazine is headed by Dr. E. F. Shewmake.

Much work has been put on the publication this year and the Juniors are expecting to please the readers of it with their numerous witticisms and drawings. Besides the artists in the Junior class, other learned students have contributed attractive illustrations and laughable stories.

Davidson Battalion In Line for Honor

Local Students Will Face Opposition From State Institutions

Captain G. H. Weems, Professor of Military Science and Tactics, has announced that Davidson has received official notice that the R. O. T. C. unit here has been recommended for inspection for “Distinguished Rating.” At the present time, the department is making efforts to lead the unit for the crucial test, the date of which will be learned at a later date.The inspection will be carried out by the department board of officers of the War Department at an early date. The officers of the military department at Davidson feel that the local unit has an excellent chance of making this distinguished rating this year. This is the first time that Davidson has been recommended for this honor. The military officers under the head of Captain Weems have been working toward this end for the past three years. For the past three years, only 25 percent of the R.O.T.C. units have been adjudged as qualifying for the place, and for this reason, such an appointment is considered an extremely high honor to those units receiving mention. Captain Weems has ordered extra work and extra pains will be taken to make the work of each company nothing short of perfect. With all this in view, the outlook for Davidson's chance to achieve this goal is extremely bright.

The North Carolina Peace Oratorical contest will be held at Davidson, and representatives of all the leading colleges of the state will be present and participate. This is the third of the annual Peace Oratorical contests to be held in North Carolina, and every year the contest has been attracting interest among the leading colleges of the state. The contest for this year is expected to be the biggest and best ever. The preliminary contest to choose a representative from Davidson will be held on Tuesday evening, April 13th. The oration must be original and the theme must be in some way related to international peace. The winner at the state contest will receive a first prize of $60. The second-best oration will also be chosen. Bowie Parker, manager of the local arrangements for the state contest, urges every Davidson man who is interested in entering this contest to get in touch with him immediately.

The committee who had direct charge of the various branches of the magazine are: Lingle, Editor; Harllee Branch, Jr., Business Manager; Clancy Williams, Humorous Writings; Warren Ogden, One-line Witticisms; "Bo" Macmillan, Jokes; Kenneth Bell, Limericks; Buford Webb, Drawings; Claude Allen. With this competent staff putting much work on the magazine, success for the magazine is assured. At any rate, with the sending of the edition to the press, another step toward completing plans for Junior Speaking has been completed.

Of a total possible 8,000 points, Davidson riflemen made 7,089 points. Although it is expected, no information has yet been received concerning the standings that other colleges have made in their tryouts. The five highest men have been chosen to represent Davidson College in matches for the William Randolph Hearst trophy. The team will compete with teams throughout the United States.

Various changes have been made in the baseball schedule since its publication a month ago. The two games with Oak Ridge have been moved up so as not to conflict with the big track meet to be held here on the 27th. They will now take place on the 25th and 26th. A new game has been added with the engagement to play the Salisbury League team at Salisbury on April 13th. Negotiations are being carried on about a game with Erskine on April 20th, and one with Citadel on May 11th. These games, however, are distinctly pending and not at all certain. The game with Roanoke College on April 30th has been canceled as it would make the Virginia tour too long. The complete schedule follows:

March 18—U.S. Marine Corps at Davidson.
March 25—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
March 26—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
March 30—Dartmouth at Davidson.
April 2—Lenoir-Rhyne at Davidson.
April 5—Carolina at Salisbury, N.C.
April 10—Duke University at Greensboro, N.C.
April 13—Salisbury League at Salisbury, N.C.
April 16—N.C. State College at Davidson.
April 17—N.C. State College at Gastonia, N.C.
April 20—Erskine College, S.C. (pending).
April 21—Furman University at Rock Hill, S.C.
April 22—Clemson College at Greenville, S.C.
April 27—Guilford College at Winston-Salem, N.C.
April 28—V.M.I. at Lexington, Va.
April 29—Washington and Lee at Lexington, Va.
May 5—Elon College at Davidson.
May 8—Duke University at Gastonia, N.C.
May 11—Citadel at Davidson (pending).

When silvery moonlight falls on town and field—and the long, joyous tour home is ready to begin—have a Camel! For Camel makes every smooth tour smoother, adds its own contentment to every delightful journey. Camels never tire your taste or leave a cigaretty after-taste. Pay what you will, you'll never get choicer tobaccos than those in Camels. Camels are blended by the world’s most expert blenders. Nothing is too good for Camels. In the making of this one brand, we concentrate the tobacco knowledge and skill of the largest organization of tobacco experts in the world. No other cigarette made is like Camels. They are the overwhelming choice of experienced smokers. Our highest wish, if you do not yet know Camel quality, is that you try them. We invite you to compare Camels with any cigarette made at any price.

Mamma—"You men like girls who neck better than the others, don’t you?"
Papa—"What others?"

Cheerleader—"All right, now, let’s have a siren for the team."
Sub (on sidelines)—"Hey, make it a blonde, will you?"

May I have a date with you this evening?
She—"Oh, I'll be tickled!"
He—"I’m not that kind of a boy."

Interviews with any who wished to speak with him, especially ministerial candidates who expect to go to the seminary next fall, were held on the hill Monday and Tuesday.