THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1926

WILDCATS

Have those old shoes rebuilt. Service is our watchword.
E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP
Representatives STEVE WALL and J. A. LAW

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Wildcat Trackmen Meet Carolina Gamecocks on Cinder Path Saturday
Davidson Slated to Win on Basis of Past Performance of Both Teams

The track team of the University of South Carolina comes to Davidson Saturday for a return engagement contest with the
Wildcat trackmen. Davidson journeyed to Columbia last year, defeating the Gamecocks 56 to 55 in the closest meet, for both
teams, of that season. In the final event, the javelin, Davidson needed both first and second places to win the
meet, and succeeded in capturing both when Gracey and McComb hurled the javelin farther than the Carolina entries. On the
basis of comparison, Davidson is slated to be victorious. Three weeks ago, Wofford fell before South Carolina 74 to 48,
while one week later, Davidson downed the Terriers at Spartanburg 86 to 36. In both instances, the tracks were slow
due to rain and unconditioning. South Carolina had had only one week of practice before the Wofford encounter and all
the times for the dashes were improved the next week in a meet which they lost to Presbyterian College of
South Carolina 71 to 55. The mainstays of the Gamecocks are Verner, in the 100 and 220 yard dashes; Gaston
and Shand, in the high jump; Gaston, in the hurdles, and Brewer and Siedeman in the weights. In one week's
time between the Wofford and Presbyterian meets, Verner brought down his time on the 220 by 1 4-5 seconds. Gaston,
in the high jump, tied for the only first place secured by the Gamecocks in the meet with North Carolina.

The vast improvement shown by the Davidson cinder stars in the meet last Saturday was very encouraging. Three school records
were smashed when Goodykoontz broke the tape in both the century and 220 dashes in better time than any other
Davidson man had done, and Penn ran away with the two-mile in the record time of 2:26 1-2.

DAVIDSON DEFEATS (Continued from page 1)
Davidson defeated Wilson and Beattie (Carolina), 6-4, 6-3. Coleman and Fair (Carolina) defeated McAlpine and Brown (Davidson), 6-3, 2-6, 6-3.
Total matches: Davidson 4, South Carolina 2. Sets: Davidson 10, South Carolina 6. Games: Davidson 88, Carolina 76. Umpires: Austin,
Moriarity, Hollingsworth.

Visit Our New Fountain When in Charlotte
Tryon Drug Co.
Nunnally Whitman Candies

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE — THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

SPORTOGRAPHS By Ernest Milton

We had two track meets last Saturday—at Davidson and at Greensboro. The first was with the University of North Carolina
track team, and the second was with the Duke University baseball team. Duke did most of the tracking at Greensboro,
however, due to the inevitable miscues of the Davidson Wildcats. “If you'd seen the team playing Saturday,” said Coach Monk
when he came back to Davidson, “you would never have recognized it as the same team which had played in
games before. They were playing 50 percent off their form that afternoon, missing several straight chances at easy force outs.”
Maybe there will be a track meet with Duke again on May 8th, at Gastonia, but we hope our boys
will receive a good workout covering the bases at that time—this being the last game of the season. “Do unto
others as they have done unto you,” ought to be the motto of the team at that time.

But let’s get back to that other track meet. We lost, but what a track affair it was! Three college
records—all broken in one day. It’s sad to lose the meet, but it’s a glad feeling to know that we
have some men who are proving to be extraordinarily good steppers on the cinder path. Harry Goodykoontz broke a couple
of them—one-fifth of a second off the hundred and two-twenty dashes. Clement Penn knocked off 6 4-5 seconds from the
two-mile run. It was all good to see. We honestly believe thatHarry will lower the record on the 220 before
the season is over, since he got off to a bad start, and we believe that Clement can sever his
own record, since he has unofficially lowered it already more than eight seconds in practice. The 440-yard men had to
jump over a dog in their dash around the track, but even then a fair time was made by Goodykoontz,
who was a good winner of first place, with the other two Davidson men trailing him a short distance behind.
Davidson thinks a lot of Harry, too, for his work—taking three first places, scoring a third of Davidson’s points, and
breaking two college records. We want to see that next track meet, too, which will be with the University of
South Carolina here next Saturday.

Only 11 more games on the Wildcat schedule for baseball this season. We've had six contests so far, and have
split even in the winnings. But only four of them count in the state rating. We beat Oak Ridge, Carolina,
and Lenoir, but the Dukemen smothered us in Greensboro. We don’t have a game with Wake Forest this season, so
a great deal depends on the games we win from the other teams.

Our tennis team proved that they were to merit some attention by their win over the University of South Carolina
team here last Saturday. McCutcheon and Carr strutted to defeat their opponents in the doubles match in straight sets. The
tennis team left here Monday on a four-match trip, meeting Wofford, Georgia Tech, Clemson, and the University of South Carolina—the
latter in a return match. That's four good days’ work for the team.

Don’t know whether you have noticed it or not, but several of the South Carolina teams have been on the
Davidson schedule this year more prominently than usual. Wofford was met or will be met in football, basketball, track, and
tennis. Furman was met or will be met in football, basketball, baseball. Clemson was played or will be played in
basketball, baseball, track, tennis. The University of South Carolina comes in for track and tennis.

Tennis Team Leaves on Annual Spring Tour to Encounter Four Schools
Wofford, Georgia Tech, Clemson, and University of South Carolina to be Played

The tennis team began their annual trip on Tuesday morning. On this trip, they will meet four of the principal
tennis teams in the South. Both doubles and singles will be played. The schedule is as follows: April 13, Wofford
College at Spartanburg, S.C.; April 14, Georgia Tech at Atlanta, Ga.; April 15, Clemson College at Calhoun, S.C.; April 16,
a return match with the University of South Carolina at Columbia, S.C. Wofford are the champions of South Carolina, and
Tech always has one of the strongest teams in the South. Little is known about the comparative strength of Clemson.
However, Davidson has already won three matches this year, including one from South Carolina, and has a fine chance of
winning all their matches. It was thought that the loss would weaken the team, but Davidson's play against South Carolina
last Saturday proved otherwise. The players who will make the trip are: L. M. McCutcheon, captain; R. W. Carr, S.
W. Brown, J. A. McAlpine, and H. M. Austin, manager and substitute.

Watch Elon! We thought Wake Forest had the best team in the state, but Elon and Guilford put the skids
under the Baptists. Fogleman and Smith are two of the best pitchers in the state, and if these men are
sent against Davidson, the Wildcats will need to have their eyelids pulled back considerably to catch on to the delivery
of these men.

VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE - - - N.C.
WEEKLY PROGRAMME

Wed. and Thurs., Apr. 14-15--- "The Only Thing," with Elenor Boardman, Conrad Nagel. Also comedies, "On the Farm" and "Starting
an Argument."

Fri. and Sat., Apr. 16-17--- "Tumble Weeds," with Wm. S. Hart. Also comedy, "Iron Mule."

Mon. and Tues., Apr. 19-20--- "Sundown," a First National special. Pathe news and comedy, "Pay the Cashier."

Coming Apr. 26-27--- "Quo Vadis."

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach, and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
MORALLY CONDUCTED

SMART STYLED CLOTHES FOR COLLEGE MEN SOLD EXCLUSIVELY BY
ELLON’S
CHARLOTTE - - N.C.

W. E. PRICE
“PROTECTION PLUS SERVICE”
PRICE INSURANCE AGENCY
R. L. PRICE
