12 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1926

At any time during the day, students of the University of Wisconsin may go to the building of the dairy
school and drink as many glasses of buttermilk as they desire, free.

Get your Hats Cleaned and Re-blocked. We make ’em like new.
The Central Hat Shop
Shoe shine in connection.
Established in 1900.
Phone 1632
8 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Better Liked Than Ever - the New Society Brand CORNELL
We’ve never offered a suit so many men like---and ask for season after season. This spring the Cornell’s even smarter,
if possible, than before. Higher shoulders, a broader, more athletic effect. Again it’s the Society Brand favorite, and better liked
than ever.
$40 up
The Tate-Brown Co.
38-40 So. Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SENIORS ANNOUNCE (Continued from page 1)
body will be entitled to a certain number of these invitations. The chief marshal, H. L. Shaw, Jr., will have
charge of distributing the same and will give to each man only his allotted quota unless he has a written
statement from some other student assigning his invitations to the applicant.

The stone benches, the gift of the class of '26 to the college, have already arrived and will be put
upon the campus within the next two weeks. They will add much to the beauty of the campus as well
as provide a long-felt need of a lounging place under the trees.

The Davidson College Symphony Orchestra has been secured to play during commencement. It will provide music for all the public
exercises and will be an attractive feature of the season. The orchestra has had a successful season with the Glee
Club and is considered one of the best of its kind among the colleges of North Carolina.

At the class meeting held Monday morning, the valedictorian, salutatorian, and orator for the class day exercises were elected and
will be announced in the next issue of The Davidsonian. At this time, the class mascot was also elected.

Several classes are planning to have reunions this year. One of the most notable is the class of 1906. Prof.
E. J. Erwin was president of this class its Senior year and will preside at the reunion. Among the members
are Mr. F. L. Jackson and Dr. B. R. Lacy, of Atlanta.

As usual, the Senior Oratorical Contest will be one of the main features of commencement. This year there are four
excellent speakers to compete for the medal, namely, Roland B. Parker, president of the class; A. H. Hollingsworth, A. Y.
Bowie, and B. U. Ratchford. All these men have been intercollegiate debaters and made unusual forensic and oratorical records.

HONORARY SOCIETY (Continued from page 9)
While there, they have “get-together” meetings and in some instances have suppers, feeds, and during the past year probably more
progress has been made—as far as the method by which all of the students have fraternity any other previous year.
itself in This past fall, the fraternity secured a hall on the top is concerned—than the smallest men in the
R. O. T. C. at Davidson. The room is well decorated with many pictures and souvenirs. Next year, Scabbard and
Blade will have an excellent field for work and with the backing which the Army Officers here on duty have
given.

NONE TOO SMALL
DUNN, President
JOHNSTON, Vice-President
R. A. DUNN, Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

IMPERIAL NOW PLAYING
ADOLPHE MENJOU in “A SOCIAL CELEBRITY”
A Clever Social Comedy
COMING MONDAY
NORMA TALMADGE IN “KIKI” with Ronald Colman
The Imperial shows the pick of the pictures. Ask anybody.

LOUISE BROOKS

FAMILIAR R. O. T. C. SCENES

In the above picture, the two army sergeants posted at Davidson hold the center of the floor of the Armory.course,
although warned by Dr. McConnell to drop it. His path has not been one of roses and some large part
of his time has been spent in the awkward squad. He has finally graduated from that division, however, and is
now a full-fledged soldier in the Davidson army, thanks to his pluck and persistence.

The two pictures on the left show the Davidson unit taking calisthenics under the able direction of Cadet Major Huie.
This is one of the most important parts of the R.O.T.C. course. On the upper right, we have the long
and familiar figures of Sergeants Kirby and Burton. Two more familiar figures could hardly be found on the campus. Aside
from their regular duties with the R.O.T.C. unit here, they have rendered invaluable service in patrolling the athletic field during
contests there. There are many who have seen the army of the law in their stern visages and have been
repelled by that force from any endeavors to jump the fence.

The list of active members is as follows: L. B. Huie, B. U. Ratchford, A. S. Jones, D. G. Wilson,
C. E. Houston, J. E. Moore, L. L. Deck, and G. W. Smith. Pledges: G. R. Sims, V. S. Broyles,
W. O. Puckett, W. O. Green, T. F. Anderson, J. S. MacRae, Jr., and J. J. Earnhardt.

STEP RIGHT UP AND MEET

Who is Louise Brooks? In New York, if one asks that question, he is verbally guillotined for lack of knowledge.
One gets something like this in reply,—“You don’t know Louise Brooks? She’s the cute little brunette who made such a
hit, dancing in ‘Louie the 14th’ last year. And since then, they tell me, she has appeared in a picture
called ‘The American Venus.’ Louise was one of the prize beauties, and now, she’s been signed to a long-term contract.”
All of which, while a bit sketchy, is exactly what has happened to Miss Louise Brooks. If there are such
things as meteoric rises in the film world, she has had one. And to set any anxious minds at rest,
her latest role is that of the pretty manicurist who becomes a stage star, in Adolphe Menjou’s latest picture for
Paramount, “A Social Celebrity,” now playing at the Imperial. Malcolm St. Claire, the director, predicts great things for the little
lady, claiming that she has a “certain something” which succeeds in getting over. Certainly, to be featured opposite Adolphe Menjou
in her second picture is a big achievement, and there aren’t many girls who can place their records next to
hers.

Lochinvar Jack Causey, model of youthful beauty, is said to be a strong contender for the endurance championship of Davidson
College. It is rumored about the campus that this young swain from Greensboro, in his usual spirit of courageous adventure,
was determined to take samples of femininity down for Junior Speaking, and that when all four of them arrived in
Davidson, he worked with such deftness that each of them went home fully satisfied and resting assured that she was
the “only one” in Causey’s life.

The picture at the lower left is one of the Special Weapon Company of Howitzers at Camp McClellan.

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant, 17 S. Tryon St. The Best Places to Eat in CHARLOTTE, priced
$3.00 to $6.00.

MEN’S SECTION At Efird’s Now! New Accessories for Men--- Featuring Smart Straw Hats. Just arrived, Brigham Hopkins and Dunlap Straw
Hats for men. The finest quality, smartest new straws with broad brims and fancy bands. Another group of good-looking Straws,
$1.95. STREET FLOOR.
