“JUNIOR WEEK~ALUMNI ISSUE Second Section THE DAVIDSONIAN Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 1, 1926 Special Features Lexington High Honors John Hunt by Memorial “Popsy” Hunt, ’15, Died January 22nd of Pneumonia SCHOOL GIVES TABLET Hunt Was Star in Backfield for Three Years OLD GRADS FEEL URGE TO RETURN TO CAMPUS AS SPRING TIME COMES One Who Has Been There Waxes Poetic as He Describes Faculty Members’ Nights and Loves to be Found on the Davidson Campus There’s not a man in the world, who was ever a student of Davidson, that doesn’t have lots of memories about the old college when the springtime comes. When the trees begin to turn green with leaves, and the grass beneath them seems to begin life all over again is the time when all Davidson men become homesick for the old college, and only wish that they could be free long enough to take a trip back to the scenes of their college days, where they spent the best four years of their lives. It will not be long until class reunions will be held, for commencement will be here in less than eight weeks, and the presidents of various classes are already sending out circulars to all the men in their classes urging them to return with them for a chance to recall bygone memories. A bronze memorial tablet will be placed in the auditorium of the Lexington High School in honor of John C. Hunt, Jr., who died of pneumonia January 22nd. The money for this will be secured from the free-will offerings of the students in school there. “Popsy” Hunt was teaching at Lexington High when he died and had just finished a most successful season coaching the football team there during the past fall. The nature of the memorial was decided at a student body meeting there a few days ago. Representatives from all the classes were present and voted unanimously in favor of a tablet form of memorial. Plans are now being formulated for the exact type of the tablet and the donations towards the memorial are being received at Lexington. This is the only memorial in the school auditorium. John C. “Popsy” Hunt graduated here with the class of ’25 and is known by all the upper-classmen here now, and by many Wouldn't you like to see the rows of trees, casting long shadows made by the setting sun, all over the campus? Wouldn't you have a thrill if you walked up to the old Chambers columns—all that’s left of the once-famous building which was the center of activity during your undergraduate days? You would undoubtedly experience a thrill, but you would also feel a pang of remorse at the thought that you are no more able to run through those long halls, calling to some classmate, or singing a little love ditty which grew out of the note that you just received from that girl back home. But you are still able to make a visit to your old society hall, the scene of many a debate which brought forth all the oratorical talent that was in many a man, and showed him that he was called to be an orator, either in the pulpit, or in the political halls of the nation. You will meet old friends—chums and buddies that you have not seen for years—that you have not seen since you left the old campus—that you will not see unless you return. Why not take a few days off and run up to see them? You will see successful business men and ministers who, when you (Continued on page 13) Blackfriars’ Club Enjoyable Performance The Blackfriars, the dramatic club of Agnes Scott College, gave a very enjoyable program Saturday night at the Central High School auditorium in Charlotte. The club was brought to Charlotte under the joint auspices of the Charlotte Agnes Scott alumnae and the American Association of University Women. This is the first time that the Blackfriars have ever made a trip, except last year when they went to Evansville, Ill., to enter a national contest, where they won third place. Charlotte is the only place they are visiting on this trip. Of interest to Davidson students should be the fact that Miss Grace Augusta Ogden, the author of one of the plays, is the sister of Warren Ogden, a junior at Davidson. Miss Margaret Bland, theauthor of another, is a Charlotte girl. The program consisted of three well-acted one-act plays, Aunt Teenie, by Miss Ogden; The Darned Dress, by Miss Margaret Bland, and Values, by Miss Polly Stone. Aunt Teenie is the story of a woman who is a fanatic on the subject of the sea. Her home is beside the sea, and her constant living there causes her to go crazy. The scenery of this play was especially good. Values is a story of three sisters, none of whom want the care of their mother until (Continued on page 10) (Continued on page 10) (Continued on page 12)

SIX MEN IN DAVIDSON HAVE BEEN HONORED AS STUDENT BODY LEADERS

Davidson Players Aid Benefit Show

The Davidson Dramatic Club materially aided the Kiwanis and Rotary clubs of Lexington in their combined benefit performance which was given in the above-named city last Tuesday evening. Tailor Made, a one-act comedy written by Frederick Smith, of the local organization, was presented by a Davidson cast, along with a vaudeville program given by the local talent of Lexington. The performance was given in the new playhouse of Lexington, and it was crowded to capacity by the townspeople. Approximately a thousand dollars was raised to help the playgrounds fund, which these two clubs are raising. Every part of the program was enthusiastically received by the large audience which laughed heartily at the antics of the local boys and the jokes pulled on their fellow citizens. Tailor Made was given by the same cast that presented it so successfully in January with the two other one-act plays written by Davidson students. The author, who took (Continued on page 11)

April Breezes

If I could ride as cloudlets ride
On pink and silvery seas,
I’d cast all worldly cares aside
To scamper with the breeze;
To nestle in a fairy boat
And sail o’er rippling rills,
To far-off lands of dreams I’d float
And play on sun-kissed hills.
I'd call a gentle zephyr, cool,
To frolic there with me,
Or splash beside some woodland pool
Beneath a moss-grown tree.
If I could glide as swallows do
Across slow-moving streams—
Then might I see my wish come true
And live my foolish dreams.
—C.F.S.

Currie, Hillhouse, Hendrix, Sappenfield and Baker Have Served in Coveted Position—Pinkney President Next Year

For the first time in the history of Davidson, and perhaps in the history of any college, there are six men on the campus who have at one time or another been president of the student body. These men are J. M. Hendrix, Jr., T. S. Baker, N. E. Sappenfield, A. M. Hillhouse, Dr. Currie and the rising president, J. F. Pinkney.

“Jim” Hendrix is back at Davidson this year, taking an M.A. in chemistry, to prepare himself for work at the University of Pennsylvania, where he intends to study medicine next year. Jim played for four years on the Wildcat eleven and was included in the all-state list of nearly every sport editor. He carried out his duties as president of the student body in an admirable way, and proved himself a leader in more ways than one.

Tom Baker is a senior this year, and, much to the regret of the students and faculty as well, is spending his last year with us. Tom was also chosen by most sport writers as an all-state football man, at the position of tackle. He comes to us from Florida, and during his four years here has made for himself the reputation of being a man worthy of old Davidson.

“Nick” Sappenfield was elected president of the student body for the year '25-'26, but was unable to serve his full term on account of a broken leg, which he received in the first game of the season. Nick is known on the campus and throughout the state as “Davidson's brainy quarterback.” He will be back again next year to pilot the eleven to victory. His abilities have not been limited to athletics alone, however. Nick has taken a leading part in all the campus activities, and has shown himself to be a true Christian man.

“Spoofy” Hillhouse, of the class of '24, is serving as general secretary of the Y. M. C. A. this year. He is doing a big work here on the campus, and, under his direction, the “Y” has put on some excellent programs. “Spoofy” is a Phi Beta Kappa man and would be a credit to any college. (Continued on page 10)

Athletic Council Picks Carroll as Manager

George Batte is Chosen as Freshman Manager

At a recent meeting of the Athletic Council, M. L. Carroll, of York, S. C., was elected as manager of the basketball team for next year. This election was made when the managers were chosen. Carroll has worked faithfully for this position and by his attention to the team he has proved his ability to dispense of the duties of this office. There were three men eligible for the berth but Carroll won out over them. George Batte was chosen as manager of the freshman team. Out of the Sophomore class Boyce Martin, Robert Miller and Charlie Carson were chosen as the Junior managers and will assist Carroll. There are several men of the Freshman class out for managers, and this department of basketball will be well attended to during the next season. Carroll is well known among Davidson students. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity and stands high in the social activities of the campus.

SIGN ON A CAFE WINDOW
Eat here and you'll never eat anywhere else.