THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1926.

Several important changes have occurred in the personnel of the student body by the failure of D. H. G. Stewart,
of Dothan, Ala., to return to school. Stewart was a member of the student council, and W. H. Branch, Jr.,
has been chosen by the Senior class to act in that capacity.

H. G. Goodykoontz and H. M. Austin were others nominated. These two tied on the first ballot and in the
run-off between the two, Austin was chosen to oppose Branch. The entire election was one which aroused much interest, each
ballot being unusually close. In the final run-off, Branch was elected by a majority of only two votes over Austin.

Stewart was also president of the Ministerial Band. G. R. Sims, who was treasurer of that organization, has been elected
to that office. Stewart was also recorder of absences for the college, and J. A. McAlpine has been elected to
that position.

A new policy to the staff of The Davidsonian is F. B. Jones, who will be known as feature editor.
Jones is an experienced writer and has shown particular adeptness along this line. The creation of this new office and
the abolition of the old exchange department will be of decided advantage.

Harllee Branch has announced a number of changes in the editorial staff of The Davidsonian. Failure of F. K. Bell,
J. H. Hollingsworth, and Garnett McMillan to return to college this year necessitated the appointment of new men to fill
the positions formerly occupied by these members of the staff.

W. S. Gordon has been named as assignment editor to take the place of Hollingsworth. Bell was humorous editor, and
this office was given to H. L. Shelby. The latter was alumni editor, and since his transfer, the alumni department
has been placed in the hands of D. M. Calhoun. Calhoun has also been given charge of the telegraphic department,
which has been discontinued.

As a reward for meritorious service as reporters for The Davidsonian and for the work done as members of staff
and otherwise helping to put out the college publication, golden quills have been awarded to six members of the Reporters’
Club. The selection was made at the close of school last year but the names were not revealed because of
the rush in the work at that time. The men chosen as wearers of the coveted pen are: W. L.
Lingle, at present managing editor of The Davidsonian; Boyce Martin, assistant managing editor; F. C. Withers, athletic editor; Vernon S.
Broyles, business manager; J. F. Hollingsworth, who is not in school this year, and W. S. Gordon, assignment editor.

The constitution of the Reporters’ Club provides that no more than seven men shall be chosen in one year to
wear the pen. At no time shall the total number of wearers in college exceed ten. Selection of men is
based on length of service, quality of service, quantity of work done, and in fact, the whole record of the
men as reporters is considered.

The newly appointed members of the staff are well known to the student body as participants in a number of
outside activities in addition to their writing ability.

Members of the Davidson Faculty, ex-students, and friends of the college are visiting the section of Florida where more than
1,200 lives were lost in a single night and 38,000 more people were left without homes. Florida’s East Coast, especially
Miami, suffers a double loss in the disastrous storm, for the tourist season is certain to be ruined.Pressing desire like
that of the students, the election of a president for the Ministerial Band. Dr. G. A. Lazenby:

STUDENTS’ STORE United States under the weak Harding administration, is again up for trial. This summer months in search of
pleasure, during which time some were studying in foreign Statesville, N. C. Phone 494 Authorized “Collegiate Stationery” Dealers is the
same Daugherty who figured in the Sinclair oil lease case. Now he is charged with showing bias when Richard Merton
the German industrialist's claim against the Alien Property Custodian was being settled. The attack seems to be largely in the
prosecutor's office.

Dr. Currie, conducting what was known as the Davidson College summer school, had the following Davidson students: R. W. Graves,
W. T. Spencer, F. A. Alford, and Tom Baker, all of whom graduated last spring. Henry Powell, Martin Crawford, Jack
Montgomery, D. C. Porter, Thomas Forrey, and Reynolds, of Washington and Lee University, were also in the party.

Dr. T. W. Lingle spent a very profitable and enjoyable summer in the states of Colorado and Virginia. Professor Blythe,
devoting his time to the study of Spanish, was in Middlebury, Vt. He stated that everyone was on his honor
to speak in no other language except Spanish, during the entire length of the school.

Dr. J. M. McConnell had charge of Camp Carolina, which is near the old location of Camp Sapphire, at which
place he has been in attendance on former vacations. Dr. J. W. McConnell was elected secretary of the board of
examiners of the State Medical Association of North Carolina, in June, and after that he served for two weeks in
New Carlisle, Penn., where he acted as colonel in the Reserve Corps of the United States Army.

Miss Cornelia Shaw, the faithful and efficient librarian of the college, spent her vacation period in travel, visiting the following
places: Paris, Athens, Constantinople, Constance, Syria, Palestine, Egypt, and Rome. Leaving early in May, Dr. Grey spent practically all his
time studying and visiting in France, Italy, Germany, and other European countries. Dr. Hood, who spent all of last year
studying in Europe, returned to America early in June, after which he attended the Reynolda and Montreat Conferences, making addresses
on “Education in the Southern Presbyterian Church.”

Sudolina Giannini, American star, received a remarkable ovation in her first appearance there. She sang in German for the first
time in her career and her mastery of the language, together with the ability she showed in her singing, was
so pleasing to the audience that they called her back 22 times. Not done with this sign of approval, they
crowded the stage exit and cheered her as she left the theatre. She must have done right well, at that.

ANNUAL NOTICE All freshmen and sophomores who intend to go out for positions in the editorial department of the Quips
and Cranks can sign up with the editor, Don Wharton, in 33 Georgia.
