THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1926

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7 PM Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. - Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W.L. LINGLE - Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN - Assistant Managing Editor
G. W. DUDLEY - Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB - Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY - Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN - Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY - Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN - Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON - Assignment Editor
T. T. JONES - Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS - Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD - Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE - Assistant Business Manager
F. A. McALPINE - Subscription Manager
V. L. WRIGHT - Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY - Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
R. L. WILLIAMS
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. TANT
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWYN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
BROWN McILWAINE
L. L. ELDER
P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH
N. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD
B. WILSON
J. R. WEAVER
B. F. MCQUEEN

EDITORIAL

The Davidsonian takes this means of extending its congratulations and best wishes to Coach Tex Tilson and the young lady
who shall soon be “Mrs. Tilson.” From coaching a State Championship football team to winning a bride might be to
some a long step—but, to Tex, it was just the closing of one exciting chapter and the opening of another—perhaps
even more exciting!

Banquets in Charlotte, Greensboro, Gastonia, and Mooresville for our State Champion football team. Sort of looks like the boys are
trying to make up for all those meals they postponed during the long training-table siesta.

If the N. C. State Wolfpack had happened to have passed through Davidson last week after their victory over the
Wake Forest eleven, they could have had the town, the college, and anything else they might have cared for around
these parts. For once the Wildcats and their brothers of the Wolfpack got together and won a State Championship—for the
Wildcats. Too bad the fellows at State can’t share with us to a greater extent the joys of a State
Title.

THE SCRUB

For the first time in the history of the College, the Davidson athletic authorities have awarded service letters to four
faithful second-string football men, who although giving unreservedly of their time and energies, were, nevertheless, unable to make the varsity
squad. No recognition by the athletic association has ever received more favorable comment from the student body as a whole.

The lowly scrub is too often forgotten in the rush to reward varsity athletes. Lacking, perhaps, the natural attributes of
a varsity player, the scrub is frequently the most faithful, the most consistent, the most unselfish candidate for a place
on an athletic team. Not many years ago a great coach was asked how he managed to turn out such
an invincible gridiron machine season after season. His interrogator, undoubtedly, expected the coach to answer with words of praise for
his varsity material, or by modest boast of his own coaching methods. Imagine the surprise when the coach quickly replied,
“The scrubs—they make my teams for me!”

And so it is. Consider the discouraging plight of the coach who finds himself with only eleven star players, from
which to build his team. He is without reserves from which he can draw in case of injury to his
first-string proteges, he is without men against whom he can test and develop the strength of his varsity men. It
is the coach with an abundant supply of hard-working, indomitable, and self-sacrificing scrubs who comes through with a winning team.

The wonderful record of the Wildcat football team this year is due in no small measure to the pluck and
determination of the men, who day after day, week after week, gave their best to building up a team on
which they had not even the faintest hope of playing. There is no effort here to detract from the praise
deserved by our varsity men and our inspiring and capable coaches. It is only in the belief that the scrub
deserves some commendation along with the rest that we have written this little eulogy.

On the varsity team there is a fine spirit of co-operation embodied in the slogan “One for All, All for
One.” On the scrub team there is a still more commendable and unselfish spirit which we might incorporate in the
motto “One for All.” No chance of starring, no chance of a write-up in the Sunday papers, no chance of
trotting out on the field amid the plaudits of fellow-students—only the dismal prospect of dig, dig, dig, today, tomorrow and
forever. But, oh, the glory of seeing the fellow you’ve helped to train dive through an opponent’s line, skirt the
ends, or side-step to a touchdown. That’s the one and only reward the scrub wants nine times out of ten.
He’s a great fellow, the scrub. At last he stands a chance of wearing the insignia of the college for
the glory of which he so obscurely but so admirably works year in and year out. God bless ’m!

More Tributes For the Wildcats

THE GLORY OF DAVIDSON

Of course, it is a matter of great pride locally that the Davidson football team has come out of another
gridiron season as the champions of North Carolina. One would have to look far and wide over this whole country
for an institution that is more deserving of the title.

HELPING HANGCHOW

Four years ago Warren Cox was a star on the Davidson football team. Those were in the days when old
’Lias Faison, “Nappy” Davis, “Jimmie” Hendrix and “Country” Fields were cavorting about in the Wildcats uniform, and Warren was about
as good as the next one. He wasn’t such an outstanding star, perhaps, as some of these fellows who have
been playing on our State championship teams nowadays, but he could stack up pretty favorably with the best of them
at that. Not only on the gridiron, but in the classroom and on the campus, as well. He was a
good scholar and one of those “pure wool, yard-wide” type of gentlemen, who almost inevitably win recognition.

Warren was in for a big success in the professional world—his college reputation assured him a place in almost any
profession he might have chosen. But, Warren forgot wealth and fame in his ambition to serve God and his fellowman.
He accepted a position as Chemistry professor and athletic advisor in the Hangchow Christian College of China. Far from home
and friends, he has labored for three years, depending for his small income on the interest of students back here
in Davidson. So far his Alma Mater has never failed Warren. Somehow the students here have felt all along that
he was their own representative in the foreign field, and, unable to join him in body, they have continued to
send him funds with which to keep up his good work. Each year, Davidson students have conducted a campaign among
themselves to raise funds with which to keep Warren in China, where he is doing much toward perpetuating Davidson’s record
for service.

Next week Davidson students will be asked to contribute again toward the support of their representative on the faculty of
the Hangchow Christian College, which some years ago was appropriately labeled “The Davidson of China.” A campaign to raise a
thousand dollars will be launched on the campus within a few days, and our students will rally to the cause
of Christian education in the foreign fields. Enjoying the benefits of such an education here at Davidson, our students find
a special incentive to contribute to a fund that will make it possible for our brothers of the yellow race
to receive the same service.

Approximately one-half of the fund of a thousand dollars, which will be raised here, will go directly to Warren Cox,
and the other half will go to an equally worthy cause. Edgar Tufts, who graduated in 1922, has taken up
the work begun by his father among the poverty-stricken folk of the North Carolina mountains, and without an endowment or
appropriation, he is today maintaining an orphanage, school and hospital for the needy people with whom he works. The success
of his work depends entirely on the interest of friends, and their gifts—and there are times when it hardly seems
possible that he can continue his philanthropy among the mountain-folk. But, Tufts has courageously kept on, asking for nothing, giving
everything. The appeal for help in his work will meet with a sympathetic response among Davidson students.

Davidson is fortunate in that her students are protected from the usual run of campaigns for charity donations, too many
of which are today making their appeal to the hard-pressed college man. But,the campaign for Hangchow College and the Tuft’s
project commend themselves to us as worthy causes, and Davidson men, appreciating this, will gladly respond to the best of
their ability. Here’s to the scrub—

Warren took a place of prominence not only in its home State and, because of the nearness of Davidson to
Charlotte, not only geographically, but every other way, it stirs up the community blood to a point of genuine warmth
that the boys up the line have come away from their football labors this Fall with such eminent distinguishment. If
we listen to the appraisals of the sporting writers of the State, we would incline to the view that Davidson,
perhaps, had no better football material than a number of the other elevens of North Carolina institutions, that in some
respects it may not have stacked up with one or two of them in brilliance of individual stars or in
versatility of its play, but that the reason for its achievement lies in the aggressive spirit of the team, the
never-say-die stuff that you used to hear about as being that of which conquerors and heroes are made. And we
suspect that is about right. Davidson football teams have long held just that sort of a reputation and it is
a vastly finer sort of reputation for a college and for a college’s football team to have than one possessed
by going out and scouring the country for some exceptional football material and bringing it to school for little purpose
other than of getting a conquering eleven for a season. Some colleges have been and are yet suspected of doing
just that thing, but it soon leaks out on them and if they are lucky enough to win the fame
of a championship by this means, their reputations in the long run won’t stand the wash. We heartily, therefore, applaud
the accomplishments of the Presbyterians. They have worthily won a distinct glory on the gridiron and the best part about
it is that that is not the only sphere in which the Davidson institution excels—The Charlotte News.

FINE SPIRIT

The spirit of friendship and fellowship manifested at the Davidson-Carolina game last Saturday at Davidson was one of the most
pleasing features of the gridiron classic. There has always existed the keenest of rivalry between the University and the Presbyterian
institution, but there has always been, too, the friendliest of relations. The University respects the fighting qualities of the Davidson
players, and the latter feels the same way toward Carolina. The tributes both band and student bodies paid to their
rivals by playing and singing each other’s college songs was a beautiful exhibition of real sportsmanship. A writer in the
Tar Heel of Saturday said: “The relations between Carolina and Davidson now are a credit to both schools. May Davidson
always rank ace-high among our rivals.”—Gastonia Gazette.

THE ACCLAIM OF MONK YOUNGER

Too bad that the last issue of The Davidsonian could not “hold the press” until the issue of the football
battle between the Wildcats and the Duke Blue Devils was known. However, the Davidson College paper contented itself with approximate
anticipation of the result. It prophesied that to Davidson would come the State championship, and behold! that is just what
happened. It was a strong team that made the final contest with Davidson for State honors and for that reason
Davidson is all the more lifted up, and The Davidsonian was not unmindful of its opportunity for placing credit. This
it gives to Monk Younger, who led the charge against the Blue Devils at Durham, the crowning accomplishment as pilot
for the Wildcats “through the mill of the hardest schedule in recent years, with a record of seven victories and
two defeats.” Certainly all the boys can take their hats off to Monk Younger.

SPORTS TOWER

By William Gant

If anyone who read this column back in July and August is among those who are reading it today, he
will remember that a line was used almost every day or so which had something like this—“There will be no
post season series.” This morning there is no more appropriate sentence to use than—There will be no post season football
game!

The Best Team

Sitting on top of the world, the Davidson College Wildcats are the 1926 football champions of North Carolina. There is
no argument for—there is no better football team in the state. Any team that can win three of four major
state games and tie the other one while its nearest competitor is winning two, tying one and losing one, is
the titleholder. There is no better football team in the state; there are numerous better football players than the ones
who make up the Wildcat eleven. Football honors, however, go to the best team.

Knowing Too Soon

There have been more “upsets” recorded this season than ever before. As a whole, the football squads throughout the country
have been better coached in the science of the game but the biggest reason for the failure of games to
run according to “dope” has been in the fact that the majority of the good teams realized that they were
good before the season ended. Davidson is the champion of North Carolina because it is the best team today; it
has the best record and there is no way of getting around it. Carolina had a better team before the
Tar Heels met the Wildcats but, it strikes us, Carolina players and supporters knew that before and not after the
game. Wake Forest had a better team before meeting N. C. State but the same thing happened: the Baptists knew
it!

Pessimism

Gil Dobie has been criticized for his gloominess since becoming a football coach. Before every game, the Cornell mentor has
told his men that they were pretty poor football players; they hadn’t showed him that they were good; and he
was the boss of things. The result is that Dobie has more games won than any other mentor in the
country on his standing for a career. Pessimism isn’t so encouraging sometimes but it is better than to let athletes
realize that they are the best in the business.

The Case of Ruth

Babe Ruth was the greatest of all swatters; for season after season he proved it. The first thing one knew,
Babe realized that he was the greatest figure in baseball. The result was that in 1925 he was the biggest
fizzle in the sporting world. He found out that he couldn't be the greatest swatter and know it at the
same time. Realizing this he made a most sensational comeback. Today he is at the top of the heap. Probably
he knows it but one thing certain, he isn’t going to take a chance.

Wildcats Under-Rated

All season, Davidson has been under-rated. Sports writers throughout North Carolina have picked Davidson to lose on more than one
occasion. Football fans, far and wide, have done the same thing. “Monk” Younger and “Tex” Tilson haven't failed to let
the Wildcats know that they were not the best in North Carolina. On the other hand, good teams have found
out how good they were before the season closed. Call it overconfidence or whatever you wish, there is such a
thing as learning too quickly.

Davidson Spirit

Not for one moment does the writer wish to discredit the strength of the Davidson eleven. Frankly, we believe that
nine out of the 11 men on the Wildcat team will admit that there are better football players than themselves
in North Carolina. We are sure that the coaches will admit that there is better material on other teams. And
yet, without a doubt, the Wildcats make up the best team in the state. What the men lacked in ability
they had in spirit. Rah-rah stuff is laughed at by the wise boys but the team with the spirit to
win rarely is defeated.

DAVIDSON TRIUMPHS

By virtue of its defeat of Duke and Wake Forest’s failure to defeat State on Thanksgiving, Davidson stands the undisputed
champion of the State in football for the year 1926. In view of the controversy which would have been precipitated
had the outcome of the Thanksgiving games been otherwise it is a happy circumstance both for Davidson and the State
at large that the results have eliminated that contingency. The Davidson football team of 1926 is altogether worthy of the
honor. Traditionally Davidson football teams have always demonstrated a fighting spirit which honors them even when defeated. In their annual
clash with Wake Forest this year they showed a margin of superiority which fully corroborates their worthiness of the championship,
even though the game ended in a tie. No college in North Carolina will wear their laurels with more distinction
of true worth than Davidson and The Journal joins with a great host of Davidson admirers throughout the State in
extending its heartiest congratulations.—Winston-Salem Journal.

Sea bathing was held scandalous in England until the beginning of the 19th Century, and persons who took a dip
in the ocean were apt to be forcibly “retrieved” by those who thought they had gone mad.

Radio tests to determine the permanency of the earth’s crust were conducted during October and November by the International Astronomical
Union.
