Vol. XIII FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON N. C., MARCH 18, 1926

William A. Christian Y.M.C.A. In Second Ballot Covington Defeated Tuesday After Elimination of Goodykoontz and Stewart Monday—Foster Elected Vice-President and
Boyce Martin Secretary-Treasurer

William A. Christian, of Mobile, Ala., was the choice of the Davidson student body Tuesday morning in the election for
the presidency of the student Young Men’s Christian Association, which was the first of the annual spring elections. He won
out over William T. Covington, of Raeford, N. C., on the second ballot, after these two had eliminated Harry G.
Goodykoontz, of Bluefield, W. Va., and D. H. G. Stewart, of Dothan, Ala., in the first round of balloting Monday
morning. At the same time John S. Foster of Winston-Salem was elected vice-president over Howard Arbuckle of Davidson and Boyce
Martin of Atlanta was selected over Julian Lake of the same city, for secretary and treasurer of the “Y.”

In the preliminary voting P. J. Garrison of Covington, Ga., and W. P. Bradford of Charlotte were entered in addition
to Foster and Arbuckle. Paul R. Maulden of Kannapolis, and Camper O'Neal of Florence, Ala., were nominated in the election
for secretary and treasurer.

Christian has been active throughout his college career in “Y” work in addition to being one of the leading men
of the junior class. He was president of his class his freshman year, playing on the freshman football team. Since
then he has continued as a scrub player. He has made the honor roll every year he has been here,
and has been on the student council. He is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity. He was secretary
of the “Y” for the term now expiring. Foster was also president of the freshman class. He is a member
of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity.

(Continued on page 5)

Pi Kappa Alpha Trophy Won by Local Chapter

Beta Chapter on Davidson Campus Wins Scholarship Cup for First Time

The Beta chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha, located at Davidson, has had the signal honor of winning the scholarship cup
offered by its Supreme Council for the year 1924-25. This cup has been given each year to the chapter in
the fraternity making the highest average for that year, and it has come for the first time to Beta chapter,
which made for that year an average of 87.15 percent. The scholarship cup was established by the convention of 1915,
in an attempt to stimulate beneficial competition and to encourage greater scholarship efforts and to reward unusual excellence. The rules
concerning the award of this cup take into consideration the lack of uniform grading in the different schools and guard
against inequalities of standards. This cup remains in Beta’s possession for the remainder of this year, and if it is
won three times in succession, the chapter will become the permanent owner. This cup is now in the Pi Kappa
Alpha hall, having been turned over to the Beta chapter by the Beta Mu chapter at the University of Texas,
winner last year. It has the averages of the different chapters that have won it engraved on it. Beta has
further distinguished itself this year by having two of its members elected to Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic fraternity.

Wins Presidency

College Treasurer Speaks at Vespers

Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, who spoke at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service Sunday evening,
chose as his subject, “College Problems and How Traditions Will Help to Solve Them.” As the subject indicates, he dealt
with student problems and drew his main points from his own experience and his knowledge of college men. The talk
was divided into four problems, the problem of religious influence, the problem of self-discipline or measuring up to responsibilities, the
problem of representing the college before the public, and the problem of having a purpose. Davidson tradition was shown to
be a help in solving the problem. In each case a special

Every student on leaving home and coming to college, where he assumes the position of a man, is supposed to
think for himself and is always confronted with the question of religious belief. This is the time of doubts and
questionings. There is a religious influence at Davidson which is wholesome and spiritual. Tradition says that few men go away
without making up their minds to follow Christ. Probably more men have decided to enter the ministry on this campus
than on any other spot, and laymen, who compose a great majority of the students, decide to serve the Master
in their various spheres. The tone of the campus helps a man to fight out for himself his own religious
problems, and to reach a happy solution.

A student at college faces the problem of self-discipline or measuring up to his responsibilities. College is a miniature world
and in it, its citizens have the opportunity of suc-

(Continued on page 3)

Golf Professional to Play Here Soon

Davidson's followers of the little white golf ball have a treat in store for them, for on next Monday, March
22nd, William P. Goebel, professional of the Charlotte Country Club, will be here to give a demonstration of how the
game should be played, and a lecture and exhibition of golf faults. He will also have with him a number
of clubs, balls and bags, which he will sell at reduced prices. A match is being arranged during the afternoon.
Mr. Goebel is an expert at the game, being North and South Carolina professional champion, as well as being Southeastern
P. G. A. open champion, and he should be able to show the boys exactly where they have been making
their mistakes. This exhibition comes as a climax to the spring tournament, and Mr. Goebel plans on playing his exhibition
with two or three of the best players in college. These men have not been selected yet, but will be
picked in the next few days, after the completed scores for the tournament have been turned in. This is a
great boost to the golfing game here.

Mr. Goebel will have with him clubs, balls and bags, which he will show in the parlor of West during
the morning. These articles are offered at reduced rates, as he wants to get in a new supply for this
season at the Country Club in Charlotte, and hence the reduction. Mr. Goebel will arrive in Davidson at about 11:30,
displaying in the parlor of West until dinner. At 2:00 p.m. he will give a lecture and exhibition on golf
faults at the first hole. The match between Mr. Goebel and several Davidson players will begin promptly at 2:30. They
will play eighteen holes.

WRITE HER NOW!

“Fire” and fun! Mirth and merriment! Entertainment and enjoyment! All of these important items and a score of other equally
interesting features will be provided for students and visitors in the program that has been arranged for Junior Speaking by
the special committee of the Junior class, under the direction of Harllee Branch. Committee meetings are being held almost daily,
and as the time for Junior Speaking draws nearer, the Juniors are becoming more and more optimistic over their chances
to stage the greatest speaking ever. Girls from far and near, the South's finest and most beautiful, will be on
hand to share in the jollity of the occasion and their presence will add no little to the attractiveness of
the event. A reception room has been remodeled on the first floor of Phi Hall, and will be thrown open
to the students for use as a social center during the Junior Speaking festivities. The big entertainment in the gymnasium
on Saturday evening, April 3rd, will be the climax to the great times that are being arranged for, and students
are urged to be on hand for this event especially. The dates are April 1-7! Only thirteen more days before
Speaking. Has your girl received her invitation?

Greensboro College Glee Club Delights Students

Miss Mitchell is Soloist of the Organization

FEATURES CLASSICS

Audience Applauds Time After Time as Pretty Girls Render Songs

A packed house of Davidson students vociferously announced their appreciation of the melody made by the lasses composing the Glee
Club of Greensboro College.Concert given in Shearer Hall on Tuesday evening of this week. The concert was under the auspices
of the Y. and the Senior class, both organizations profiting by the proceeds. Miss Gwendolyn Mitchell, prima donna of the
club, made several appearances with classical selections which were rendered with a clarity of tone and thrilling quality that partook
of the song of a mockingbird. She was encored time after time and sung the youth's favorite, “Let Me Call
You Sweetheart,” as her final number. Each of the numbers was given with a sweetness of tone and a delicate
blending of the girlish voices, the harmonious effect being especially noticeable in “Lord Vouchsafe Thy Loving Kindness,” and “Stabat Mater.”
The runs and the higher notes were made with perfect ease. The singing of the second altos was as good
as that of the sopranos in the choruses. The excellent work of Miss Bruton as accompanist was outstanding. Mr. Alexander,
the director, led the chorus through the tempo of the difficult parts, and he also received a round of applause
for his solo, “Vision Bright, Vision Fleeing,” from Herodiade. The forceful reading of Miss Plyler was well received. She read
a selection which had for its setting a tea room. The characterization of two of the diners was true to
life and amusing. Miss Bruton’s piano solos were admirably executed.

(Continued on page 8)

Model of Charm And Beauty is David Six Freshmen Make Honor Roll Grades

The average of the student body for the last semester, according to statistics from the registrar’s office, was 81.28. Included
in the figures of the students’ scholastic work for the fall term was a list of 35 men who made
the honor roll, averaging above 95 in all their work. Six members of the freshman class made the honor roll,
which is a notable record for a first-year class. The Seniors making the honor roll were announced, with 17 members
of the class attaining this distinctive position. Among the Seniors who succeeded in averaging over 95 were two letter men,
McComb, in football, and Barrington, in wrestling. The average of the entire Senior class, boasting of some 95 men, was
90.52. Four students, three Seniors and one Sophomore, made over the coveted 98 percent, viz., R. L. W. Graves, A.
J. L. Hollingsworth, B. L. U. Ratchford, and D. L. Howard. Beside the Senior class, the averages of the three
other classes were: Junior, with 77 students, 88.01; Sophomore, 215 men averaging 82.153; and the Freshman class of 229 members
making an average of 78.73. A notable increase in the number of men from the class of '27 making the
honor roll is shown in the statistics as heretofore only one member of the present Junior class, W. A. Christian,
had averaged over 95. This year there were six men making the coveted position, and one, Th. G. Goodykoontz, is
a varsity letter man in track, and Christian has been on the varsity football squad for the last two years.
To D. L. Howard goes the honor of making (Continued on page 8)

Phi Beta Kappa to Take 4 New Men

On last Friday night the North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa scholastic fraternity elected four Seniors to membership.
These were J. M. Appleby, R. W. Graves, C. E. Houston, and O. L. Brenner. Four men, H. L. Shaw,
B. L. U. Ratchford, and A. W. Hollingsworth, were taken into the fraternity last fall, bringing the total number of
student members to eight. Aside from ranking high in their studies, these men have taken an active part in inter-collegiate
debates, literary work, honorary fraternities, and other intellectual matters about the college. R. W. Graves is president of the honorary
fraternity council and was one of its organizers. J. M. Appleby is president of the national chemical fraternity, Gamma Sigma
Epsilon. Both of these men have been very active in scientific work at Davidson and intend to take graduate work
next year at Cornell and Princeton. O. L. Brenner and C. E. Houston also intend to continue their studies next
year. The former will go to Northwestern University for graduate work in history and the latter is undecided as to
what university he will attend. The Phi Beta Kappa fraternity was founded at the College of William and Mary and
is the oldest college fraternity in America. It has achieved nation-wide prominence on account of its strict standards for election
and is the leading scholastic fraternity in America today. There are now one hundred and seven active chapters in the
leading colleges and universities of the country. The Davidson chapter has greatly heightened the scholarship standing of this institution. Probably
no concert given in recent years elicited more hearty applause than (Continued on page 6)

A.W. Hollingsworth were Picked as Ideal Girl

Carefully Compiled Questionnaires Reveal Choice of Davidson Students—Would be Ultra-Ziegfeldian Type—Lovable and Vivacious

The Ideal Girl of Davidson College students has been found, or rather, she has been arrived at. Following a careful
questioning of every Davidson boy by the questionnaire method, the Ideal Girl, with all her beauty, vivacity, and grace, has
been reduced to a mass of facts and figures, out of which, however, there arises the dream picture of the
perfect girl—the real American beauty. Margaret is the name bestowed upon her by the edict of the law of averages,
but she will not be of the “five foot two, eyes of blue” type. To see this personage treading the
street would make anyone a devotee of beauty forever, for she is symbolical of the hopes and aspirations, as well
as the youthful dreams of nearly six hundred Davidsonians. An almost photographic resemblance can be secured of this girl, and
judging from the specifications, measurements, and characteristics, there is no doubt but that she would be of the ultra-Ziegfeldian type,
and a glorious mixture of the classical beauty with the lovable, vivacious American girl of today. This research was entered
into with some misgiving, but the enthusiasm shown here demonstrated that the Girl would be found, even if it took
the combined strength of the student body and the faculty. Everyone was interested from the first and the cooperative spirit
demonstrated aided greatly the staff of this publication. After much time the Girl began to take tangible form and after
all data was in, The Davidsonian compiled it in such a way, that the Ideal Girl is now ready for
presentation. The staff, and those fortunate members of the student body who have been admitted into the inner council, feel
assured that this Girl will more than be a match, in every respect, for the Ideal Man, lately fashioned by
the girls at Converse College, away down in South Carolina.

(Continued on page 5)

Nine Honorary Degrees Conferred by Davidson College Trustees at Last Session

Conferred Honorary Degrees on Nine Prominent Men

At the last regular meeting of the Board of Trustees nine honorary degrees were conferred by Davidson College. Four men
received the degree of doctor of laws, three the degree of doctor of divinity, and one each the degree of
doctor of pedagogy and the doctor of sciences. Those who received the degree of doctor of laws are: C. E.
Diehl of Memphis, Tenn., who is president of Southwestern University; John R. Todd, of New York City, the head of
a great engineering concern and who has shown great interest in Davidson; Wade H. Harris, editor of the Charlotte Observer;
A. M. Scales, of Greensboro, a lawyer and financier. He is head of the one million dollar campaign of the
Presbyterian educational institutions in North Carolina. The three degrees of doctor of divinity were conferred upon Rev. W. R. Coppedge,
of Rockingham, prominent in church and educational work; Rev. L. L. Little, of Kiangyin, China, who has been a missionary
to China for 20 years; and upon Rev. J. E. Purcell, of Chattanooga, Tenn., executive chairman of the Church of
the Southern Presbyterian Assembly. Prof. M. C. S. Noble, dean of the school of education of the University of North
(Continued on page 8)
