”THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1926

Gaston Alumni Will Feed Hungry Cats Dec. 4

The Davidson Wildcats, football champions of North Carolina for 1926, will be royally feasted in the Gastonia High School cafeteria
Saturday evening, December 4th, by the Gaston County alumni. This has been a regular yearly custom for the past few
seasons. The loyal Gastonians, every one of them a rooter for Davidson, win or lose, hope to continue this as
a tradition.

Several alumni from Charlotte, Shelby, and other places are expected to be present. It is going to be a regular
Davidson rally and rousement. This banquet will cost us two dollars each. We are having as many guests as there
are alumni, but who minds two dollars when that fighting bunch of Cats is to be honored? Send your check
to the secretary at once and reserve yourself a place at the table.

You are going to spend one of the happiest two hours you ever experienced. I am sure you would like
to talk to little Dick Grey, unanimous choice for all-state halfback—most of us remember him as a toddling baby; and
Joe McConnell, Bohannon, Pinckney, and all the others. It is going to be strictly informal, no long speeches, but plenty
of action and short talks from the players and coaches, a resume of this year, prospects for next year, etc.
You do not want to miss it, so be sure and let nothing come in the way for Saturday night,
December 4th.

You have read what Coach Simmons said about Davidson in The Observer—"Wildcats—a name with which to conjure—indifferent sizes, young, quite
young; they are hard to defeat, they don’t know a licking when they meet it. That intangible something called spirit
is an inseparable running mate with the red and black outfits. Long live Davidson!" You have read that, I know,
and

(Continued from page 1)

Professional Notices

DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance
Statesville, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays by appointment.

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314, and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.

DR. WALLACE W. ABERNETHY
DENTIST
415-423 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.

WILDCATS DEFEAT DUKE

(Continued from page 1)

The only attempt at a field goal in this period was blocked. Coming back in the second half with a
rush, the Cats piled up a 20-0 score. Within the first few minutes of play, Bohannon carried the ball.

The Blue Devils received the kick-off and after failing to gain through the line, attempted a quick kick. Seeming unwilling
to catch the Wildcat secondary unawares, the punt sailed high. Up to further mischief, it landed on its nose and
bounced high over all players towards the Duke goal. It was finally stopped in its gambols by Tuttle, who had
started the whole thing by his punt, on his own 10-yard line. Grey and Nesbit added five yards on two
plays and Nesbit scored six points for Davidson on the sixth play of the second half. Dick Grey kicked goal.

The second touchdown was the outstanding spectacle of the day. Receiving the Duke punt on their 27-yard line, Dick Grey
dashed back for his first touchdown of the season. The point after touchdown failed. Mitchell, going in at guard for
Laws, intercepted a pass about two yards from the passer and romped across for another touchdown. The final score was
Davidson 20, Duke 0.

Davidson lineup:
Center: Boggs
Right guard: Ritchie
Right tackle: Phifer
Right end: Bohannon
Quarterback: Wilson
Left half: Wells (c)
Right half: Grey
Fullback: Nesbit

Duke lineup:
Center: Jones
Right guard: Bennett
Right tackle: Reitman
Right end: Weaver
Quarterback: Frank
Left half: Wyrick
Right half: Tillett
Fullback: Southerland

PRESIDENT OF WOFFORD

(Continued from page 1)

Davidson students who will be initiated at this time are prominent members of the present Senior class. They are W.
A. Christian, Mobile, Ala.; H. M. Austin, Laredo, Tex.; G.You are prouder than ever of the little red machine, the
name given years ago by this same coach, and of the wonderful record they have made in North Carolina this
year. State Champions! For the first time in long weary years of struggling. If ever the Davidson alumni in this
community wanted to honor the “Fighting Wildcats,” it is this year and we are planning a big time for Saturday
night, says Coach Simmons, “She hasn’t any now; but the scoreboard usually shows up pretty well in their behalf when
the referee blows his final whistle and after all, the detail of ‘who won’ is more or less interesting.” Come
to this get-together meeting of Davidson men and find out what gives them this intangible thing called spirit. Don’t fail
us this time! Obey that impulse. Send in your name now! F. L. Smyre, President. Hugh A. Query, Secretary.

His first touchdown of the season. Dick Grey went off tackle for the extra point. Throughout the second half, the
Red and Black running attack gained in strength. Nesbit and Grey were consistent and Leggette went through several times for
gains ranging from five to eight yards at a clip. Lincoln, Pinkney and Bohannon were down under punts every time
and Ritchie played a stellar game on the defense. The center of the line was impregnable, with Laws and Boggs
supporting McConnell. For Duke, Frank dispatching the passes and Bennett receiving them, were the sensation of the first half. The
Blue Devil’s W. T. Covington, Raeford, N. C., and W. S. Woods, of China. Christian is prominent in many student
activities, is president of the , a member of several honorary fraternities, among which is Omicron Delta Kappa. He is
a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Austin is editor-in-chief of The Chameleon and belongs to Sigma Upsilon as
well as Omicron Delta Kappa, besides several others. Covington is prominent in many activities and is popular in the student
body. He, too, is a member of O. D. K. Woods is president of the Reporters’ Club, and a campus
leader. He and Covington are members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity.

Apply Vicks at bedtime, rubbing it well in. Then spread on thickly and cover with hot flannel. Arrange bed-clothes so
vapors will be inhaled. Vicks VapoRub. Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly.

Here in Gastonia at the High School Cafeteria at 6:30 o'clock. The squad of 27 men and coaches, faculty representative
and one or two others will be here as the guests of the Gaston county alumni organization. We want one
hundred percent attendance, for the team deserves all we can do for them.

The number required for the running of a special train could not be raised, but nevertheless, a number of boys
were determined to go to Duke. Every available U-Push-It was rented out for the game, and every other car that
could be secured was started rolling eastward. Many cars were brought from home by boys living near and were filled
up with Wildcat rooters without any trouble. Besides these, three buses were rented by students, and about sixty-five boys got
to the game in this way. These buses left Davidson about 7:00 a.m. Thanksgiving morning, and got back about 3:00
a.m. the next morning. This made a rather dull day of it, but it was worth it. It helped the
best team in North Carolina win the state championship. There’s still another group of travelers that I had almost forgotten
to mention. Several of the more ambitious boys, not being satisfied with their luck in bumming to Durham via the
highway, decided to bum back via the Pullman, with disastrous results. Hard luck, boys!

TICKETS! WHO'S WHO in service and quality? CITY DRY CLEANERS MOORESVILLE, N. C. Ask any customer--24 hour service. Branch Mgr.
Harllee Bordeaux. Cleaning, Pressing, Altering. Branch Office, 21 Rumple.

VICTROLA ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C. New PHONIC, The Finest Musical Instrument in the World.
Prices $95 to $1,000. All Models in Stock---Easy Terms. NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY.

Davidson took another victory to her account, along with the Championship of North Carolina.

You are cordially invited to a showing of College Clothing at En Ball on Wednesday, December 5th. Here’s a Tuxedo
that’s hand-tailored and priced at only $35.00. Selz Shoes, Collegian Clothes, High Grade Haberdashery. The Vogue Shop for Men. 15
E. Trade St. Charlotte, N. C. Campus Representative, R. B. McQueen. Tate-Brown Co. Charlotte.
