THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1926

Calendar

Thursday, November 4:
7:30—Eumenean Literary Society.
7:30—Philanthropic Literary Society.
8:30—Pandemic Literary Society.

Friday, November 5:
7:00—Band Practice—Armory.
7:30—Glee Club Practice—Shearer Hall.
8:15—International Relations Club.
9:00—Alpha Phi Epsilon.

Saturday, November 6:
3:00—Football—Hampden-Sidney vs. Davidson, Charlotte.

Sunday, November 7:
10:00—Sunday School—Students’ Class.
11:15—Church—Dr. B. R. Lacy, Richmond.
1:45—Christian Endeavor Training Class—Shearer Hall.
2:30—Ministerial Band—Shearer Hall.
6:15—"Y” Vesper Service—Dr. Lacy.

Monday, November 8:
7:15—Services in Shearer—Dr. Lacy.
8:15—Court of Control.
8:15—Glee Club practice—Shearer Hall.
9:00—Omicron Delta Kappa.

Tuesday, November 9:
7:15—Services in Shearer—Dr. Lacy.
8:00—Meeting of Chairmen of Junior Week Committees.
8:15—Band Practice—Armory.
8:30—Sigma Pi Sigma.
9:00—Beaver Club.
9:00—Delta Pi Kappa.

Wednesday, November 10:
7:15—Services in Shearer—Dr. Lacy.
8:15—Glee Club practice—Shearer Hall.
9:00—Scabbard and Blade.

Campus Sport Continues to Attract Great Crowd

Several Contestants Injured But Numbers Still Play

Campus football continues to lead all other sports in popularity among the Davidson students this season. The addition of many more players on both teams has made the local sport intensely interesting, and the habit of those students who frequent the campus in the afternoons of dropping around to watch the game as it proceeds has caused quite a bit of comment among faculty and student body.

The fact that this style of football is characterized by sweeping end runs, brilliant forward passes, innumerable drop-kicks and a high score makes the contest all the more thrilling. Several players who sustained injuries in the early stages of the football season have returned to the grid. Dick Kane has completely recuperated from the injuries suffered by two broken fingers and is now showing up well. The presence of the fast Bud Guthery has been greatly missed during the last few days. The stamina of his team has been lessened to an astounding degree by his continued absence. Fresh Gardner has shown up exceptionally well recently and it is expected that he will give many a good player a fight for his place on Bill Story’s team of twenty-seven fighting fleet-foots.

A new factor has entered the field of late. The third floor of East's triple threat cosmopolitan team has leaped into the limelight and succeeded in frightening off all foes with their presumptuous challenge to meet and defeat all comers. This team was scheduled to play against a picked team from the entire student body last Saturday afternoon, but through the kindness of each member of the team it was arranged for the game to be played early this week in order that an adequate crowd could be gotten to pay the management for getting the play-by-play returns from the Davidson-V. M. I. contest staged in Lynchburg, Va., on that date. Everyone awaits with eagerness the outcome of this challenge in general.

Ten cows are kept in a shed in the heart of London. They are milked twice daily, giving approximately 160 quarts of milk. When taken to the country they run about ill at ease, unaccustomed to the green grass underfoot.

FOR THAT TASTE OF Home Cooking On Your Way Home New York Cafe 29 West Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

DOCTOR BEN LACY (Continued from page 1)

Last spring he was called to the presidency of Union Theological Seminary, a position left vacant by the death of Dr. Walter Moore. These evangelistic services mark the high spot in Y. M. C. A. activities on the campus this fall. During this time a special effort is made to have all men come to a definite conclusion concerning their life work. The coming series of meetings will prove of wonderful value on this account.

Charlotte Transfer Company PHONE 298

THE DAVIDSONIAN TO REWARD REPORTERS (Continued from page 1)

This, however, will not mitigate against the chances of members of the business staff, who are equally eligible to share in the award. The contest will officially open next week with the choice of the best article from the present issue of The Davidsonian, and will continue until the change of editors in the annual elections next spring.

BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Reduction Dyeing, Cleaning, Pressing, Altering

WHO'S WHO in service and quality? CITY DRY CLEANERS MOORESVILLE, N. C. TICKETS! Ask any customer--24 hour service Branch Office, 21 Rumple

BRADY PRINTING CO. COLLEGE PRINTERS Stationery, Books, Greeting Cards Branch Mgr. Harllee Bordeaux. STATESVILLE, N. C.

FIRE BELL’S CLANGING AROUSES ALL STUDENTS

Portions of the student body were aroused at the unearthly hour of 3:00 a.m. Thursday morning by the raucous ringing of the fire alarm. Some immediately went back to sleep, thinking it was the rising bell, others arose, dressed, and went in search of the fire, still others merely arose and went in search of the fire—a fact regretted exceedingly later on.

There was a race and scramble to see who would have the coveted honor of breaking the glass case containing the key to the firehouse. The glass was broken in the fight, and an argument ensued as to who was guilty. The argument was tabled until after the fire and the meeting went into the more pleasant part of the night's program. The C. boys grabbed their favorite fire-fighting equipment and valiantly rushed to the blazing edifice of the Central Avenue Presbyterian Church.

The Chameleon Will be Out November 9th

The November issue of The Chameleon will be out November 9th. The editorial and business staffs are endeavoring to make the magazine this year the best in its history and have succeeded in making several notable improvements in its make-up. The issue will be featured by a new cover designed by W. A. Sprout, Charlotte, and will be printed in two colors on autumn-gold paper. All students will receive a copy of the magazine from funds taken from the campus tax. Extra copies may be obtained at the regular price of thirty cents an issue. Anyone out of the student body desiring subscriptions should write Subscription Manager, The Chameleon, Box 390, Davidson, N. C.

The November issue of the Chameleon will include literary productions com-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

...in ing exclusively from the three upper instruments and the search started. The classes. All future issues will in addition blaze was presently treed in one of the lower to this contain work of freshmen. Ma- stories of Goodrum's Department Store, on Main street. Fire Marshal Short now came to the front and made an estimate of the situation in the will during the first of December.

FLYING SQUADRON (Continued from page 1)

Undaunted by reverses, the Wildcats came issue which appears some time true military manner, while the boys who were musically inclined rendered: “Fireman! Fireman! Save My Chee-ild!” in a most touching manner. At the conclusion, Marshal Short gained control of his voice long enough to make a short and inspiring speech, finishing with the inspiring words: “Save the children first.” Then he seized a bucket of water in each hand and rushed into the blazing building only to reappear immediately in a great state of excitement. Removing the bal-scuttle which served him as a helmet and casting it from him, he forthwith began to jump up and down and utter cries of rage and disappointment mixed with language positively shocking for one of his age. Several intrepid spirits decided to investigate and so utterly disregarding the thin wisp of smoke which still curled from the top of the door, they dashed inside possibly to a fiery grave. (At this time the ladder company arrived—with Pyrene extinguishers). The crowd lit cigarettes, swapped to the other foot and waited in an agony of suspense. (The chemical company came up with the hose-cart, closely followed by the guard company with buckets). Several minutes passed as minutes are wont to do. Their comrades discarded their gum, organized a rescue party, and filed solemnly into the building. (Just then the salvage and hose companies came up with the ladders). The daring few were found ranged in a semi-circle, watching in awed silence the actions of a person who held the center of the floor. The latter held a garden hose in one hand and his trousers up with the other—a perfect picture of what the well-dressed man should wear to a fire. He nonchalantly squirted water from the hose on a large and very empty hole with charred edges which occupied the foreground. This wonderful person at length turned off the water and amid the cheers of the assembly (for ’twas none other than Lord Helper of laundry fame) told in simple words the story of his heroism. At this point the owners of the endangered building might have come forward and passed around medals and generous gifts but came the hose boys to announce that they would be ready to begin operations as soon as their captain returned with the plug-wrench and nozzle which had been left in the fire-house through mistake. The gathering ignored them completely, inspected the hole in the floor, listened to stories of the discovery and extinction of the flame—already beginning to take on great length and profuseness of detail—then returned to the street to hunt up their bedroom-slippers and so back to bed. Next morning it was discovered that persons of very low moral fibre had taken advantage of the time of public danger and the resulting excitement and relaxation of vigilance on the part of the police force (it is even rumored that the force attended the fire without its chewing tobacco and spent a very miserable evening) on account of this relaxation of vigilance the said low characters went so far as to throw chewing gum wrappers on the street.

Smoky atmosphere due to forest fires is credited with having helped this year’s apple crop in British Columbia, as it prevented the direct rays of the sun from drying the soil when there was a scarcity of rain.

Smart Styled Clothes For College Men, And fresh daily—almost like your favorite fruit. Braeburn is forever sending us new things—the very last word in original collegiate ideas—until the next one arrives.

MELLON’S CHARLOTTE, N. C.

---

Note: Some parts of the text were unclear or seemed to be missing context, but I have preserved the original punctuation and meaning as much as possible.