4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1926.

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

Business Manager
VERNON S. BROYLES

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
W. L. DINGSH

Assistant Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN

Athletic Editor
F. C. WITHERS

Associate Editor
BUFORD WEBB

Alumni Editor
H. L. SHELBY

Exchange Editor
D. M. CALHOUN

Humorous Editor
H. SHUMAN

Literary Editor
D. M. CALHOUN

Assignment Editor
W. S. GORDON

Feature Editor
P. JONES

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
F. L. DOUGLASS

Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD

Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE

Subscription Manager
W. L. ALBRIGHT

Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY

Service Manager
W. S. GORDON

Reporters’ Club
W. S. GORDON
JOHN GWIN
C. C. MURCHISON
H. M. AUSTIN
W. T. COVINGTON
T. J. JONES
W. T. DAVIS
R. H. McILWAINE
JOHN MORIARTY
J. P. McKNIGHT
B. F. McQUEEN
A. M. SPARROW
C. R. LAKE
J. G. WHARTON
R. R. KANE
B. WILSON

EDITORIAL

It’s all right to profit by your mistakes, but it’s cheaper sometimes to profit by the mistakes of others.

The younger generation’s main fault is, it has learned things too readily from the older.

Among the things that this summer taught us is not to smell a flower while a bee is smelling it.

Jamie Kuykendall and Fletcher Adams, new managers of the Student Store, deserve praise for the fine way in which they
have equipped their little shop this fall. We believe it to be as adequately equipped as any college store in
this section, and it is proving a dispensary not only of service but also of satisfaction. Students should remember that
the store is theirs, and that its profits go into the coffers of student organizations. The fine equipment, the excellent
service, and the ultimate aim of the Student Store all commend to us its slogan—"It’s Yours, Why Not Patronize It?”

While trouble may be only a bubble, don’t forget that bubbles sometimes get soap in your eyes.

UP FROM PERDITION

Following his examination for ordination as a minister of the Baptist Church some months ago, Hillyer Hawthorne Straton, twenty-one-year-old son
of the Rev. Dr. John Roach Straton, gave this observation to reporters: “I believe the world is going plum to
Hell. I believe that it is bad, and always has been bad, and it’s going to get worse.”

What a gloomy outlook for a young man just out of the seminary, and ready for a life of service
to mankind!

No worse, however, than the outlook of Wilfred O. Cross, a last June graduate of the University of Chicago, who
has charged American college students with increasing immorality in a recent article in a widely-circulated church paper. Cross is decidedly
pessimistic concerning the outcome of present tendencies among American undergraduates, most of whom, he believes, will graduate from college educated
only to drag the world down into the depths of perdition which young Straton declares to be our ultimate destination.

Dean C. S. Bougher, dean at the University of Chicago, replies to the charges made by Cross as follows: “No
sweeping indictment against the modern undergraduates is warranted. It is my personal reaction that the generation now is, if anything,
cleaner than 10 or 20 years ago. We are not the least worried. We think we understand what the conditions
are, and we realize that while they are not ideal, they are generally healthy.”

The pessimistic outlook of these two young college graduates seems to be characteristic of the line of thought of those
who become too deeply religious at twenty-one. Getting sour at the world before one has seen more than twenty-one years
of it seems to have become a new privilege of youth. There remains, however, in older heads, we rejoice to
say, some doubt about the world’s headlong plunge into perdition, and we are glad that their optimism will not be
blurred by these latest surveys of impressionable youth.

HONORARY FRATERNITIES

Honorary fraternities, formerly symbols of achievement and of service, are in eminent danger of losing their usefulness! That, perhaps, may
seem a bold indictment to bring against these groups, and yet a searching inquiry into the records of the honorary
fraternities for the past two years, with a few exceptions, will reveal the truth of such a statement.

What sort of men compose the honorary fraternities at Davidson today? The man whose record warrants his election to the
ranks of the select? Sometimes yes, but equally as often, no. The honorary fraternity has in a number of instances
entered into a contemptible realm of favoritism, from which it must be rescued quickly or be lost forever as an
agency dedicated to the upbuilding of the college.

Too many men get into honorary fraternities because they are friendly with the men who compose the particular group which
has extended to them a bid. Like so many positions on the glee club, on the staff of college publications,
and on the board of managers of college teams, membership in the honorary fraternities are rapidly becoming more a matter
of preference and partiality than of performance. Friendships on the campus are becoming the determining factor in the choice of
too many honorary fraternity members.

With what result is this tendency operating? The president of the honorary fraternity council last year spoke of the outcome
of such a tendency in a lengthy discussion, which was never generally read. It is causing the honorary fraternity groups
to become filled to capacity with “honor-seekers,” men who once they have been initiated never bother to attend the meetings
or to aid in the furtherance of the ideals of the groups to which they have been admitted.

When friendships determine the membership of the honorary fraternities, the same men will be seen to compose practically all the
honorary groups. Is that true at Davidson? Look over the list. Do not the same men that compose one honorary
fraternity, with few exceptions, compose the membership of one or more of the other honorary groups? This fact so crowds
a single group of men, with honor and responsibility that, even though they cared to do so, they could not
devote the proper interest or attention to any one of the fraternities without neglecting the interests of a similar group
to which they also belong.

It would not be wise to say that a man at Davidson makes an honorary fraternity simply because of friendships.
That would be untrue. A man must have some qualifications with which his election can be excused. But, too often
the attributes of the chosen member are subordinate to those of another, who unfortunately does not possess the necessary “pull”
that would secure for him an honor that he rightfully deserves.

If the membership of a number of our honorary fraternities is any indication of Davidson’s leadership potentialities, then our student-body
and our senior class, in particular, are in general a mass of unindustrious and untalented fellows! It might seem unwise
at this time to call attention to a vice which undeniably exists on our campus, but when the vice is
so general as to threaten the destruction of democracy and ambition among the students, it is time someone began to
scratch beneath the surface in an effort to discover what good reason there is for such partiality!

REAL ESTATE OR RELIGION—WHICH?

That which man spent years of energy and millions of dollars in constructing God has destroyed in the twinkling of
an eye. The city of Miami, whose phenomenal growth and unprecedented prosperity furnished the chief topic of American conversation a
few months ago, stands today a sickening reminder to the world that God is a force with whom the world
must reckon, and that in the midst of industrial prosperity and commercial progress He must notbe forgotten. Miami and its
populace was no more ungodly than a multitude of other American cities, and it would be absurd for us to
point to the present desolation and destruction of that city as the result of ungodliness alone. But, Miami had been
built with rapidity, trusting too much, perhaps, on the power and ingenuity of mankind, and reckoning too little on the
power of God. Commercialism had become the cry of the hour, and in the midst of beautiful rivieras and magnificent
office buildings, Miami’s churches were too often cast into the background. It was real estate, not religion, that had attracted
the great hordes of dollar-mongers to Florida during previous months, and it is not impossible that they had built their
cities and developed their subdivisions largely on commercial ideals alone.

This mighty catastrophe, which has taken its toll of human life, and has left thousands without homes, should be a
constant reminder to us all that he who builds his house on sand builds unwisely and challenges the power of
God. America stands in sorrowful contemplation of a wreckage of homes and earthly possessions the like of which has never
been known to our country. “But the wreckage will be cleared away,” says the “Charlotte Observer,” “and Florida will build
even more beautiful than ever.” May this period of reconstruction in Florida be likewise a period of reconstruction throughout the
whole world!

WHO'S WHO AT DAVIDSON

JAMES FAULKNER PINKNEY
Canon City, Col.
President of the Student Body

Beckley, West Virginia, claims Jim as “her son,” and Jim modestly permits Beckley thus to boast. The fall of 1923
witnessed Pinkney’s matriculation at Davidson, and the passing years have witnessed his remarkable achievements. Jim remained more or less obscurely
in the background for his first few months at Davidson, and was known during his freshman year only as a
substitute lineman on the freshman football squad. Then some statistical fiend got up a questionnaire to determine the most handsome
man and Jim stepped quickly into prominence. His progress from that time has been unprecedented, and his achievements are spectacular.

Today he looks back upon three years of continuous success, both on the gridiron, the cinder path, and in student
activities. Among his many honors are listed the Presidency of the Student Body, which position he now holds; the Secretaryship
of the Student Body, the Presidency of the Junior Class, the Vice-Presidency of the Student Body, the Vice-Presidency of the
Athletic Association, two years of service on the Student Council, of which he is now the head; membership on the
“Y” Board of Control, and numerous positions of honor in literary societies and other student organizations. His college career has
been one of well-rounded activity, and when he graduates in June, he will leave behind him in Davidson an enviable
record as an athlete and as a man. Jim is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

WILLIAM ARMISTEAD CHRISTIAN, JR.
Mobile, Ala.
President of the Y. M. C. A.

“Bill” Christian came to Davidson from Alabama just about the time that Billy Sword’s “Alabama Bound” was taking the country
by storm. Bill scored as much of a hit as that song, and was perhaps the first man in the
class of ’27 to gain prominence. His election to the presidency of his class during his freshman year was a
tribute to his popularity and a fine indication of the high esteem in which he is held not alone by
his classmates, but the members of the student body in general.

No member of the present senior class is more modest or more active, and Bill’s achievements will remain as a
lasting tribute to his manly qualities. His interest in religious activities and his sterling qualities of Christian living have won
for him the position of the “Y” presidency, which is second only to the position of student body presidency in
its importance and its influence. Other of Bill’s accomplishments include the winning of a freshman scholarship medal, membership on the
student council for three years, secretaryship of the athletic association, membership on the varsity football squad, student secretaryship of the
“Y”, membership in the international relations club, the “Y” cabinet, and what is as much to be desired as all,
a place on the honor roll for three consecutive years. No finer personality, no cleaner man, no more conscientious worker,
no finer friend can be found. Bill is a real four-square fellow. Christian is a member of the Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity.

The Inquiring Reporter With the College Editors

On the twentieth of August, ground was broken for the stadium on the Richardson field, and now it is nearing
completion. What do you think of its relation to the athletics of the college?

Coach Tilson: The new stadium will be a great asset to athletics when it is completed, and will help accommodate
the crowds at the Carolina game.

Goodykoontz: I feel that it is a great step, and it should be a beginning of bigger and better athletics
at Davidson.

Mr. Foard, Construction Engineer: Well, young man, it’s just about done. We hope to start the pouring in a few
days, and I’m sure it will be ready for use before the Home-Coming Day.

Howard Arbuckle, Jr.: It is good enough, as far as it goes, but the example set by Mr. Richardson should
be followed by more of the alumni. I think it will help draw crowds here for the games, and establish
the precedent of having the big games played here, instead of in nearby towns as in the past.

Don Wharton: So much has been said about the stadium, that I'm only waiting to see how it “sits.”

Jim Farrell: Hot stuff and a good beginning of greater things.

Woman: “How did you get that Carnegie Medal?”
Tramp: “Heroism, lady. I took it away from a guy that was twice my size.”

Grocer: “Have you forgotten that five dollars that you owe me?”
Student: “Not yet; give me time.”

“Fresh Out”

Freshmen at our companion college, P. C. of S. C., have just completed a lively week of entertainment at the
hands of the “bloody” sophomores, according to press dispatches appearing in the Blue Stocking, a lively student publication at the
Presbyterian College. The issuance of freshman regulations, commanding the first-year men to carry matches at all times for the convenience
of their elders, to wear a broad green band on their arms as a “rat” insignia, and to perform other
acts of obedience, was followed by a general freshman reception at which time the trembling fresh were made to run
through a long gauntlet of upperclassmen who had lined up and down the sides of Clinton’s main street. A “Rat
Trial,” which must have been both amusing and impressive, marked the culmination of the week’s activities. This bit of diversion
at the hands of freshmen and sophomores undoubtedly helped to relieve the tension that has been eminent at P. C.
since the announcement that their beloved president, Dr. Douglas, has been offered the presidency of the University of South Carolina.

“Honor-Bound”

A new feature of the matriculation at Roanoke College this year was the signing of an Honor Pledge by every
member of the student body, says the Brackety-Ack, official organ of the Roanoke student body. The pledge was an embodiment
of the principles of the Roanoke Honor Code, and will serve to correct misconceptions on the part of the students
concerning the new honor system. A copy of the signed pledge was furnished to each student as he registered.

“Transcontinental Tour”

The Hornet, weekly newspaper at Furman University, tells of an interesting journey of 1,400 miles, which was made by two
Furman grid candidates returning to the college for early football practice. The two men, O. W. Pipkins and J.C. Hurt,
Jr., left their homes in far-away Oklahoma in a “striped-down” Ford, and made their almost transcontinental journey in four days.
They arrived in Greenville, S. C., with their “rattler” loaded down with extra equipment and necessary repair implements. The Ford,
which cost the two adventurers only twenty-five greenbacks, was sold at auction on the Furman campus, and went to an
admiring buyer at the great “sacrifice price” of thirty dollars, the extra five dollars being declared a payment for the
unique history that the little flivver now boasts for itself.

First Maid: “How did you like working for that college professor?”
Second Menial: “Aw, it was a rotten job. He was all the time fussing with his wife, and they kept
me busy running from the keyhole to the dictionary.”
