THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1926

Literary Societies

EUMANEAN

The Eumanean Literary Society extends to all freshmen and all upperclassmen who are not already members of a literary society,
a cordial invitation to the initiation and feed to be held tonight at 7:30 in Eu Hall. In compliance with
an amendment to the constitution, passed at the last meeting, the new men will be taken directly into the senior
society after the initiation tonight, instead of going through the freshman society as heretofore. The freshman society has been abolished.

---

In Paris, students at the Sorbonne, who stroll daily along the Boulevard St. Germain, speaking French with wonderful fluency and
who gather in the thick Parisian atmosphere of the Cafe des Deux Magots, wear a style of dress startlingly different
from that of the townsfolk. They’ve chosen themselves—and no one else in Paris dares to wear it! Here in America
we don’t carry the colors quite so far, perhaps (their jackets have purple and orange stripes), but our idea’s the
same. Our college clothes are more distinguished, and just as unmistakable. College men themselves have dictated the style—it has a
carefree swagger found in no other clothes. Men come to us for Society Brand college clothes because they carry out
this college idea with more distinction than any others. They are absolutely correct in cut!

New College Oxfords
New Top Coats and Tuxedos

TATE-BROWN CO.

---

Dr. Melton Clark Fills Davidson Pulpit Sunday

A short but interesting program was presented by Dr. Melton Clark, professor of English Bible in Columbia Theological Seminary. He
preached in the Davidson Presbyterian Church last Sunday morning from the text found in Matthew 16:26: "For what is a
man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? or what shall a man give
in exchange for his soul?"

"The Word of God appeals to every principle which properly moves man to act. It invites careful and exhaustive study
of the statements of the scriptures," Dr. Clark stated. "Some have sought to frighten men into a belief in the
scriptures, but this is not sanctioned by the scripture."

"Jesus Christ appeals for a consideration of man’s immortal soul," he said. Going further, he said that the Christian must
believe in the capacity of the human mind to receive and interpret the revelation of God given through men. The
true Christian ought never to fear the searching of the Word of God but some people are constantly in fear
of the investigations that are going on. Investigation is proper and no Christian should fear it. God’s Word invites it
and we should be glad of it.

"The text invites a comparison of things spiritual and things material," said Dr. Clark. "Jesus Christ urged that men compare
these two. Who knows anything about the soul?" he questioned. "How can a man estimate the value of anything of
which he knows so little?" At this point he paid tribute to those philosophers who are exploring this phase of
human thought but he added that no one of them knows more about it than anyone else.

"Our Savior appeals to us that we examine this question—'What is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole
world, and lose his own soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?' At certain times
we will do things that will jeopardize our immortal soul and it is proper that we investigate." Substituting certain words,
Dr. Clark queried, "What shall a man give in exchange for his sight or his hearing? Certainly no one would
think, for an instant, of sacrificing his sight for the entire world, and is not a soul more valuable than
this?"

Dr. Clark, in stating just what the soul is, said, "It is some force or...power which is related in an
intimate way to man’s acts of mind, his judgment, and all of his activity. You cannot hear it but it
is there. It transcends the power of science and goes above. “It is by the soul that man sees, hears,
understands, and appreciates the beauties of life; and what shall a man give in exchange for that which enables him
to do these things? Year by year, the soul finds increasing capacity for joy and also for misery. As you
face life, with its possibility and sorrow, ‘What shall a man give in exchange for his soul?’” he concluded.

Presented last Thursday night, consisting of an oration by Alexander and a humorous dialogue by Ogden and McCutchen.

PANDEINIC

Attention of all members is called to the change of time of meeting of the Pandeinic Society from 9:30 Thursday
night to 7:30 Tuesday night. At the initiation last Tuesday night, the following men were taken into the society: Cox,
A., White, Hugh, Norman, Russell, Wilson, Donald, Harrison, W. W., Lapsley, Frazer, Poag, F. V., Kirkpatrick, W. W., Marsh, E.
E., Russell, E. B., Beavers, W. J. After the initiation, the refreshment committee took charge and laid out a feast
“fit for a king.” The election of officers for the second term of this year will be held next Tuesday
night.

PHILANTHROPIC

An initiation that was unusual and snappy, yet efficient, was put over under the skillful management of “Bill” Covington last
Thursday night at the Philanthropic Society meeting. At this meeting, the following men were initiated into the society: Best, W.
H., Boyd, L. L., Close, E. C., Dressbach, Gaffney, W. F., Gant, S. L., Harper, H. W., Harril, H. C.,
Henderson, R. H., Holbrook, C. A., Hornthal, L. P., Kennedy, M. J., Kilgore, B. C., Miller, F. D., Neel, Lawson,
Odiorne, R. L., Pritcher, C. R., Randolph, A. G., Ratchford, W. T., Smith, Eugene W., Smith, J. L., Wells, R.
C., Williams, J. C., Wilson, F. J.

BLARNEY AND LA BOHEME TO BE SHOWN NEXT MONTH

The “Y” has scheduled many new pictures to appear during the fall and winter. They have succeeded in getting a
collection of the best productions of the year. The first of these will be presented on October 2nd. Renee Adoree
appears in “Blarney,” a fighting romance laid in New York during the ’80s. An Irish lad, through the influence of
his sweetheart, upsets the fighting dope of the time. On October 9th, “La Boheme” will play here. Lillian Gish and
John Gilbert play the leading parts, assisted by Carl Dane and Roy D’Arcy. King Vidor, famous for his direction of
“The Big Parade,” directed this picture. “La Boheme” is regarded as the foremost picture of the year. It is full
of romance and beauty, and has as its background the gay life on the boulevards of Paris. There are many
other pictures under contract, but the time of their showing has not been definitely decided. Among the most important of
these are: “The Road to Mandalay,” with Lon Chaney, “The Red Mill,” featuring Marion Davies, and Emil Jennings in “Faust.”
As an additional attraction, the Glee Club has consented to furnish music at each performance.

“DE LUXE”

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach, and Goldsmith. Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated MANUFACTURERS OF BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS Mooresville, N.C. CALL US FOR SPECIAL
ORDERS

Where Good Fellows Get Together BUCK’S CORNER Sodas, Fruits, Candies, Toasted Sandwiches Snappy Curb Service Brand New Place in Center
of Mooresville

A New Service

Through the courtesy of the Charlotte News, the store is enabled to furnish the events of the day. Every Saturday
night at 9:30, the scores of the leading football games of the South and the whole country are posted on
the board in front of the store.
