THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1926

ATTENTION ALUMNI

Alumni Notes

Among the many Davidson alumni at the Davidson-Wofford game at Spartanburg during the past weekend were: W. A. McCauley, '24; Dick Richards, '24; J. W. Anderson, '26; F. N. Anderson, '26; J. I. Smith, '24; J. H. McConnell, '25; H. L. Shaw, '26; Rolfe Babb, ex-'26; P. F. Dulin, ex-'26; Dr. Oren Moore, of Charlotte, and L. H. Wilkinson. L. P. Cox, '25, stopped over on the Hill while on his way to the Penn State Medical College, where he will study this winter.

Don’t forget the big Home-coming Day on the 13th of November, when Davidson plays University of North Carolina at Richardson Field. Tickets for the game can be secured by communicating with R. H. Mcllwaine, student manager of the team. Come and help fill the new stadium, which will be ready for use at this game. Make your plans now to be here for the game of the season.

The following Davidson men are teaching at Gastonia this year: J. G. Gallent, '25; Hines R. Crawford, '23; J. E. Cassell, '23; Bob H. A. Wyman, J. M. McCutchen, and Joe Miller are attending the Medical School at Charleston, S. C. H. A. Smith is teaching in the Clarksville High School this fall. P. J. Story, who was last out at Shelby, is now teaching at Marion, N. J. D. Young, who graduated in the class of '26, is at Cumberland, N. C.

The Alumni Committee of Davidson College has as one of its duties, the selection of the “Y” secretaries of the Y. M. C. A. at Davidson College. This committee has always secured for this position men of sterling worth, which fact has been shown each year and is in evidence this year. This committee is already planning for next year’s Y. M. C. A. secretary.

Stevens Electric Co.
For things electrical necessary to your fraternity home in your efforts to make it more modern.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The Christian Endeavor Training class met for the third time this year with Jeff Garrison as the leader. The service was opened with two beautiful hymns, very appropriate for the occasion. Reid Graham and W. T. Ratchford led the society in prayer. A very interesting and impressive program had been prepared for the meeting by the leader, who was aided by several men who made heart-to-heart talks on the subject, “The Pledge.” Among the ones on the program who gave interesting talks was Bill Covington. He stressed the importance of church attendance to Christian Endeavorers. Tom Hill gave an interesting and efficient talk on the subject of “Bible Reading.” As this was the regular monthly consecration meeting the minutes were read and the roll was called. Then the society discussed a topic for the subsequent meeting and urged all of the members to be present. Also the matter of sending deputations to other societies was considered. To accompany and sing for these deputations a quartet was selected. The members of this quartet are P. J. Garrison, R. F. Kirkpatrick, Jr., J. P. McBryde, and W. T. Ratchford. The class closed with the Mizpah benediction.

VERNON S. BROYLES
PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see
QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

For Your Shines and to Have Those Hats Cleaned and Those Suits Pressed, Visit
Central Shoe Shine and Hat Cleaning Parlor
8 East Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
“WHERE YOU SEE THE BIG ONES”
SATURDAY
Rin-Tin-Tin
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
A Metro-Goldwyn Special
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
Blanche Sweet in “Diplomacy”
FRIDAY
Variety
SATURDAY
“Born to the West,” with Jack Holt

Alumni Committee Meets to Plan Future Program
Discuss Activities of Alumni Secretary at Meeting in Charlotte

At the alumni luncheon at Davidson last June a committee, composed of Dr. J. C. Rowan, of Concord, president of the Davidson College Alumni Association; Mr. W. W. Flowe, of Charlotte; Mr. H. S. Richardson, of Greensboro; and Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, was appointed by the alumni assembled to select an alumni secretary of this institution. This committee, with the exception of Mr. Richardson, met in Charlotte Monday at which meeting Ernest Milton, newly appointed alumni secretary, was present. The object of the coming together was to go over in detail the plans of the alumni secretary.

Rock Hill Alumni to Organize Soon

“Unless plans are interrupted the sons of Davidson who are now in Rock Hill, S. C., will be organized into an association next Friday night upon the eve of the Presbyterian College-Davidson battle,” said Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, late Monday night. He had just returned from a trip to Rock Hill, where he met a number of Davidson men in that city, and discussed plans relative to the organization meeting. H. F. Ruff, ’05, is in charge of the arrangements for the gathering, assisted by A. M. Hurd, '24. While the organization may be termed the Rock Hill Alumni Association of Davidson College, several men residing in York county will also be in the association, since an invitation will be sent to every Davidson man residing in that immediate section.

Mountains of New York, the Coolidges passed through the famous Hudson and Mohawk as part of the return trip. Crowds at every station gave the couple hearty welcome. The President will be immediately beset with the problem of securing a Republican senatorial majority in the coming elections. Of the 34 contested seats in the upper house 27 have been filled by Republicans and the remainder by Southern Democrats. Republicans fear they may lose this majority and hold as their maximum hope a Senate made up of 51 Republicans and 44 Democrats. A President's worries are constant and various.The alumni will gather at a banquet there Friday night, at which time it is hoped to have a number of the prominent men in this section present—not so much for speech-making, as to show the interest that they have in such chapters in all towns. The affair is scheduled to begin at 7:30 o'clock, in the Chamber of Commerce rooms in that city.

Many aspects of Davidson were discussed during the meeting, as well as the general outlook of the office; made public in a letter to the alumni in the first bulletin published by the secretary. In addition to this, members of the committee expressed their ideas of the work of the secretary, and made potent suggestions whereby the office might be instrumental in bringing Davidson prominently before alumni.

Those in charge selected next Friday night as an ideal time to bring the Davidson alumni in that section together, when the enthusiasm prior to the melee of Saturday with the South Carolina Presbyterians is at a high pitch. Rock Hill has sent many men to Davidson, it being learned by the alumni secretary Monday that 15 men came to Davidson from there in 1905, and from that number the Davidson baseball team was selected.

The general conclusion was reached that there are vast possibilities in the new office, but that an insufficiency of funds at the present time would naturally be a deterrent to a program as comprehensive as the committee would like to see put over.

Beginning with this issue, the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. announces that this column will be held as permanent space for "Y" news only and invites the student body to watch the article from week to week. Care will be taken to include news items of such character as to be of great help to the students. Maintaining a section for news about “Y” activities, speakers, deputations, and the like, is something of an innovation, but it is hoped that the student body will become more interested in the work of the "Y" by means of this column.

Along with the announcement of the establishment of this column, the “Y” officers announce that orders have been placed with various publishing houses to secure books that are famous for the wonderful lessons contained in them. A few sample copies of these books are on hand now at the “Y” room and may be examined any time by those interested in such an excellent type of literature. These books are all highly recommended for their inspirational and devotional qualities, and great benefit is to be derived from them. The “Y” earnestly desires that the student body read and enjoy these volumes.

In connection with the agency for the books referred to, which the “Y” will maintain, there are to be numerous resumes of good books, and book articles will be printed from time to time, and in that way the “Y” will recommend them to Davidson students.

Johnnie Bernhardt has taken charge of the Self-help department of the “Y” and will be glad to help those who are desirous of picking up an odd job now and then.

A unique feature is being introduced this year, one that goes to show how desirous the “Y” is of aiding everybody as much as possible. Every morning on the bulletin boards behind Shearer Hall, and in Chambers building, will be posted a notice bearing the important announcements made in chapel that morning, for the benefit of the waiters of the various boarding houses and any others who cannot get to chapel.

In connection with the many other improvements made by the “Y”, permission has been granted to use the room directly across the hall from the present “Y” room for a similar purpose and work will soon be started to fix it up like the other room. The present reading room has become so popular that the need is felt for more room and this seemed to be the most profitable solution. It is hoped that much pleasure will be gotten from the combined rooms.