_ ; “ THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1926

Ministerial Band Studies Missions

Last Sunday’s meeting of the Ministerial Band was rather unique in that no definite program or speaker had been planned
beforehand. After a short song service, A. J. Cox and J. M. Murchison led in prayer. C. F. McRae read
the scripture from the Gospels of John and Matthew. E. K. Regen, ’26, now a member of the first-year class
at Louisville Theological Seminary, was asked to speak. He brought greetings from the Davidson men at Louisville and then made
a short talk to the Band. His subject was found in Romans 12:1: “I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the
mercies of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service.”
Paul, in writing to the Christians at Rome, the power of its time, faced a situation much like the ministers
of Christ are facing in America today. Amid all of its temporal power, a nation makes religion a matter of
form rather than of practice. But a nation’s acts or a man’s acts have so much more influence than his
words that it matters little what he believes if he does wrong. In the second place, our bodies must be
living sacrifices. The place of the dead offerings like the burnt offerings of the Old Testament has been taken by
Christ’s sacrifice for mankind. We are now to live for Him and in our daily life to take some part
in His Great Plan. This opportunity of thus sharing in the greatest work in the world should be considered a
duty as well as a privilege since God has commanded us to carry His Gospel to the uttermost parts of
the earth.

The “One Bad Day” that Davidson football teams seem doomed to have each year struck with all its devastating force
in the Turkey Day classic with Furman, and the Hurricane swept to a 28-0 victory. Davidson had hoped to win
but failed.

Yield to this — Treatment — Redden chest with hot wet towels; rub on— (ec! thickly VICKS VAPORUB OVER helen
hat da PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see VERNON S. BROYLES QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES Agent for
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

Captain Weems Has Interesting Record

Capt. George H. Weems, Professor of Military Science and Tactics, who came to Davidson in the fall of 1923 from
Fort Benning, Ga., where he was stationed as an instructor in machine gun work, has been here at Davidson since
that time and will remain until next June, when his tour of duty expires. Captain Weems is a native of
Waverly, Tenn., a farmer by birth and preference but an army man in spite of it. He attended Southwestern Presbyterian
College at Clarksville, Tenn., where he was a leader in campus activities and a member of the Alpha Tau Omega
fraternity. Upon graduation there, he entered the United States Military Academy at West Point. There he was one of the
outstanding men of his class, being light-heavyweight wrestling champion, center on the football team, and a cadet captain during his
senior year. He graduated with the class of 1917. He entered active army service upon graduation and remained there until
America’s entrance into the world war. He went overseas among the first members of the A. E. F., as a
first lieutenant, to be promoted shortly afterward to the rank of captain, commanding the machine gun company of the 9th
infantry, 2nd division. Later he was promoted to the rank of Major, commanding a battalion of the 9th infantry, 2nd
division. Finally, he was placed in command of the fourth machine gun battalion, 2nd division, with which organization he returned
to this country to Fort Sam Houston, San Antonio, Texas. In France, Captain Weems served in the trenches near St.
Mihiel and later near Verdun. He took part in the memorable battle of Chateau Thierry, being slightly wounded twice. He
was three times cited in the orders of the United States Army for gallantry in action, was awarded the French
Croix de Guerre and the Italian Order of the Crown. Upon his return to this country, he was ordered to
Fort Benning as a machine gun instructor and three years later he was detailed to Davidson. Captain Weems’ achievements in
army life have been notable. He is a leading authority on machine guns and was designated to review that portion
of the R. O. T. C. Manual dealing with the subject. Also, he was chief of the board of review
of the latest edition of the Manual. Since coming to Davidson, Captain Weems has come to be one of the
college’s most ardent supporters. Moreover, he has aided the school in large measure by his outside work. He has coached
the wrestling team of the college for the past three years and turned out one of the best aggregations in
the South last year. In recognition of his services in this capacity, the “D” Club last year elected him to
honorary membership in that organization, he being the fourth man ever to receive the distinction. Captain Weems is still an
athlete of no mean ability, being a star polo player. Through the untiring efforts of Captain Weems, the R. O.
T. C. department has reached a very high level of proficiency, being awarded the Distinguished Rating last year—an honor shared
only with some seven or eight colleges of the south.

Selby Ice Cream Co. GOOD ICE CREAM Statesville, N.C.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP The Most Convenient For Davidson Men

“Y” Column

The “Y” is very pleased over the ready response of the student body to aid in raising the Warren Cox
Hangchow Fund. The whole campaign went over in great style and hearty wishes to thank the students for their co-operation.
If there are any mistakes in cards for this year or any who have not received theirs asYet, please see
Jim Appleby immediately and he will straighten them out.

The “Y” is going to have copies of “Christ and the Indian Road” for sale soon. It has been suggested
that these volumes will make very suitable and desirable Christmas gifts, and anyone wishing to get one will kindly tell
the secretary, so he can reserve a copy.

On Sunday, December 12th, Dr. C. E. Raynal, of Statesville, will be the speaker at the vesper service. Dr. Raynal,
who preached here once in the fall, is a distinguished preacher and a very popular pastor. Besides his other duties,
he has for his hobby the art of wood-working and is really a master craftsman in that delicate line of
work. A worker in wood and a molder of men!

The “Y” plans to take up the collection of old clothes soon, the money from the sale of which will
go to the support of the Crossnore Mission School. This worthy cause deserves our attention. Plan to give it your
support.

Christmas—a time of joy and happiness. Let us try to always remember that it is really CHRIST-mas, and celebrate it
in a manner worthy of Him.

The last “Y” service of this year will be the annual student musical program. The Glee Club, together with the
student body, will use Christmas music entirely in this worship and the whole meeting will consist of this, as no
talks will be made. Every member of the college should plan to be at this service. It will be full
of Christmas cheer and fellowship, and one that will put us in the proper mind to best enjoy our holidays.

It is with a great deal of pleasure that the “Y” observes a marked increase in the number attending “Y.”
This fact alone is a source of satisfaction to the “Y” officers and one that they hope will continue to
be a revenue of pleasure.

Entertainment Given by Ladies on Thanksgiving
Students Remaining on “Hill” for Thanksgiving Are Given Reception at “Y”

The Y gave a social for the boys that remained on the Hill over the holiday. About sixty-five boys that
did not go to the game or to their homes enjoyed this feed immensely. The feed was held in the
Y rooms, which were very tastefully decorated for the occasion. This feed was planned by the Y social committee to
entertain the students. It met the needs of a means to entertain the boys that stay on the campus for
the holidays. The social was announced in chapel and the whole student body was invited to attend. The hall was
attractively adorned with fall flowers and autumn leaves. The orange colors that draped the hall presented a striking background for
the occasion. The gay spirit of the boys, aroused by the reports of the game, was well in keeping with
the occasion. The reception committee composed of Mrs. Martin, Mrs. Williams, Mrs. Foreman, and Mrs. Mebane was very much enjoyed
by the boys. They had arranged everything so completely, and they too seemed to enjoy the occasion. They served hot
chocolate to all present, while the guests most graciously helped themselves to the sandwiches and cakes that were placed on
several small tables. Pumpkins filled with luscious fruits were in easy reach of the boys. The social was such a
success that the Y will probably repeat the occasion on other holidays. Such is the wish of those that attended
the social on last Thursday afternoon.

If you want to get a policeman’s goat just steal his billy—C. H. S. Chatter.

DEBATE FRIDAY

The Davidson College debating team, composed of L. M. McCutchen and C. G. Davis, will make their first appearance this
year in Blacksburg, Va., Friday night, December 10th, against Virginia Polytechnic Institute. The question for debate is, “Resolved, That the
Volstead Act should be amended to permit the sale of light wines and beers.” The Davidson team will uphold the
negative side of the question.

McCutchen and Davis were chosen as our representatives only after an interesting contest in which there were six others participating.
Since the preliminaries, the varsity debaters have been almost continually working on their debates and we feel sure that they
will do their part toward making a successful season for Davidson this year.

For the last two or three years the questions selected for debate have been dry and uninteresting, but this year
care has been taken to choose a subject that would be of interest to the debater as well as to
his audience, and certainly everyone is interested in a debate as to whether we shall be a wet or a
dry nation.

This is the beginning of a series of debates scheduled before Christmas and next spring. Davidson students will have an
opportunity to hear them next Monday night, December 13th, when they debate George Washington University, at Shearer Hall. A complete
schedule has not been published but will be at a later date.

Wildcat Cafe
THE BEST PLACE AND FOOD

GIVE US A TRIAL

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Drinks Candy Smokes
Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N. Y
WHITMAN'S CANDY
HOLLINGSWORTH'S

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Founded 1847

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs. 4% interest paid on Certificate of
Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Government. Make us your Executor. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
DUNN, President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

This Hotel is Yours to use for all FEEDS AND BANQUETS no matter how large or how small, we can
serve you. Regular board---reasonable---and the best your money can buy. Music in the evenings.

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
DAVIDSON, N. C.
