8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1926

Another Hit Scored by Dan Cupid at Davidson

Popular Resident of Davidson Soon to be Married

While the attention of the students has been divided between football games and the almost as exciting sport of evading
the well-directed “shots” from well-meaning professors, Dan Cupid, that erstwhile champion of arrows and hearts, has crept into our midst
and claimed another of our number as among the gone—or rather the going. No, it wasn’t a student this time;
guess again? Well, not exactly a professor either but that’s a little warmer. You see it’s this way. For nearly
two years now, there has been on the campus of Davidson College one who has gone about in an unassuming
manner, doing his work well and making a generally good impression among the students and faculty. Being a man of
few words and a non-boasting disposition, he has been rather slow in making known to his friends his recent good
fortune (or as our bachelor friends would have us believe, misfortune). As the old adage says though, “Truth Will Out,”
and Dan Cupid’s deeds are slowly being brought to light. It was while reposing in his boudoir that the male
victim of Cupid’s shaft made known to one of our reporters that next month would certainly see him a married
man. His face fairly beamed with joy, excitement (or fright) as he narrated his expectations of launching forth upon the
sea of matrimony. When asked who his future better half was to be, our hero stated in no uncertain terms
that she was a fair one from Smithfield, noted for its pretty women and tobacco. To make a long story
short, Mr. Hobert, beginning his second year as superintendent of grounds, intends to be married next month and to bring
his bride back to Davidson where he will continue his work. The couple will occupy the upstairs of Dr. Harding’s
home.

Students Organize at Sunday School

The student class met last Sunday morning with C. G. Davis, presiding. As the business of the day was the
election of officers for the coming year, nominations for president were declared in order. E. E. Brown and J. R.
Graham were nominated and the latter was elected. Later E. E. Brown was elected vice-president over R. F. Kirkpatrick. A.
N. Brown was elected secretary-treasurer by acclamation. The new president made a short talk in which he promised to do
his best in forwarding the interests of the class, and urged all the members to co-operate with him. A committee
with J. R. Graham acting as chairman along with Frew, Westbrook, and Robinson is to arrange for teachers for the
class. Members of the faculty will be secured, and an effort is being made to present a practical course of
study in coming months. Dr. J. M. McConnell addressed the class on the subject of “The Qualities of Leadership.” In
his talk he stressed three qualities common to all great leaders: Seeing the need.of the people, personal conviction, and ability
to look into the future. He showed how Washington, Wilson, Jefferson, and all other men possessed these qualities. Turning to
Biblical times, the speaker declared that the patriarchs had these same qualities of leadership, along with others. Abraham’s obedience, Jacob’s
repentance, Joseph’s forgiveness, and Moses’ faith were controlling motives in their lives. The speaker concluded by asking how Davidson men,
preparing for Christian leadership, could measure up to these standards.

A larger number of men are attending than ever before, making it necessary for the class to be moved to
a larger room in the rear of the church. With a little advertising and hard work, the members of the
class feel that it will take its deserved place of importance on the campus.

The class has begun the year in a larger role.

The Globe Clothing Company
Clothing, Shoes, Shirts, and all the latest Haberdashery for young men
Yellow Slickers, $4.50 and $5.00

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
DUNN, President
JOHNSTON, Vice-President
SUMMEY, Vice-President
STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
R.A. DUNN, A. T. SUMMEY, Assistant Cashier
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00

Mrs. Lingle and son, Eustace Lingle, spent the weekend in Spartanburg. Miss Sara Lingle is an instructor in Converse College.

Miss Davis, a missionary to Korea, is a visitor in the home of Mr. and Mrs. Archibald Currie. Mr. and
Mrs. Will McIlwaine, of Japan, arrived Thursday to spend two months at the home of Mrs. L. R. Smith.

Mr. and Mrs. Kent of Staunton, Va., were guests of Mr. and Mrs. Shewmake last week.

Mr. Houston White, a law student at Harvard, was a visitor in town several days last week.

Ask any college classman; he'll tell you it’s the snappiest line of college clothes made.
MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Miss Gordon Baskerville, who has been visiting her sister, Mrs. Robinson, returned to her home in Jacksonville, Fla., Friday. Miss
Douglas and Miss James spent the weekend in Chester visiting relatives. Miss Mary King Daniel and Mrs. Charles Hattaeur are
visitors in the home of Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey. Miss Nancy Grey spent the weekend at home.

The As You Like It Club met with Mrs. Arbuckle Friday night. Dr. J. P. Munroe, of Charlotte, gave a
most interesting lecture on his travels in Europe. The Kill-Care Club met with Miss James Saturday night. Miss Ellen Black
was the honor guest. The Young Matrons’ Club met with Mrs. Walter Henderson Friday afternoon.

Lance Quality Products Delivered same day
LANCE PACKING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Nicholson Furniture Company
Will furnish your home on easy payment plan or make special discount for cash
Nicholson Furniture Company
STATESVILLE, N. C.

PRESENTED by ADOLPH ZUKOR
JESSE L. LASKY

Remember “Brown of Harvard”? Here’s another knockout!
Next Mon., Tues., Wed.
IMPERIAL
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SPOILED, pampered college girl, plunged into American university life, given a dose of her own snobbish medicine ---and made to
like it---Bebe decides to “show 'em.” With the result “The Campus Flirt” winds up with a slam-bang, riotous climax.
