ETO T FRR Ome Crem ~e THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1926 ~- PLAYING THE GAME

With Withers Basketball Under Way Wrestling Team’s Chances Attend Meetings Football Hangovers

After several weeks of preliminary practice under the tutelage of Coach Hengeveld, the basketball squad went under the direction of
head Coach Younger the first of the week. Due to the fact that only four letter men, Captain Anderson, Harrison,
Simpson, and Wilson, are in school, the ball tossers must undergo a stiff training period to get in shape for
the opening contest of the season with the Salisbury “Y” aggregation on the night of December 18th. Last winter, with
a small amount of material out for the cage team, Coach Younger managed to whip the men into good enough
form to down many strong Southern teams. But the team of this season will sadly miss the presence of ex-Captain
Laird, Litch Huie, and several strong substitutes who graduated last spring. A number of potential crack shots and excellent floor
men were uncovered during the class series of this fall and several should land berths on the first varsity team.
Especially notable in this line are McCauley and R. G. Calhoun of the championship Junior class team. The former was
in many ways the most consistent player in the series and from his place at running guard was a thorn
in the side of many opposing forwards. The crack shooting of Calhoun throughout the entire fall placed him far to
the front in points scored. He landed a place on the varsity squad during the last part of the past
season by virtue of the excellent performance he gave in several of the Cow-Boy games.

Coach Mattox has had an opportunity to look over the material for the freshman team. Among the men who are
showing good form and should give any others a race for their money are McGavock, Pritchett, Mauze, and Brohard. From
all appearances, the material for this year’s rat team is much better than that of last winter.

As a fitting tribute for his four years of diligent service to Davidson, the student body presented Coach Tex Tilson
with a charming set of ice-cream bowls for his wedding present. Davidson’s coach was married last Saturday in Roanoke, Va.,
to Miss Virginia Kite. Definite plans made by the newly married couple have not been announced.

The wrestling team is making fast progress and the interest displayed has been so great and the number of candidates
so large that Coach Weems has been forced to limit the squad to certain days of the week for practice
periods. Five letter men, all of different weights, are being forced to the limit by subs of last year and
several men to whom wrestling is a new game. Plans for another northern meet are being made by Manager Davis
and it is highly probable that the Wildcat grapplers will encounter either a strong Y. M. C. A. team in
Baltimore or one in New York.

Wildcat Grapplers Commence Practice

For one and a half weeks, the largest squad that has ever turned out for wrestling at Davidson College has
been put through light workouts preliminary to the after-Christmas schedule. About thirty-five candidates, including Freshmen, compose this squad, a squad
which, it is believed, because of its promising outlook, will contribute to the building of the best team Davidson has
yet produced. Because of the large number of men out, Captain George Weems, coach, plans to limit the entire squad
to certain days a week for practice so as to give those of varsity caliber a maximum amount of practice
on remaining days. The five varsity letter men in school are Captain Frierson, Manager Davis, Estridge, Crinkley, and Mauldin. Other
upperclassmen showing up well are Bohannon, Cromartie, Flythe, Garrison, Hansel, Harper, Harrell, Herriott, Hill, and Vance. The latter is showing
up well in the heavyweight class, as is also Bohannon, one of whom will try to fill the shoes of
Harry Vance of last year’s team.

The Freshmen look especially good, and it is expected that at least two members of this class will make the
college varsity trip to West Point for the Army meet, the biggest of the season. Carson, Hunt, and Reynolds are
showing up well. In fact, all show a considerable amount of promise, and it must be remembered that the Freshman
class is furnishing almost one-half of the entire squad. Those Freshmen who seem certain of filling varsity positions will be
singled out and put to work along with the varsity prospects of the upper classes. Garrison, Freshman Manager, announces that
it is practically certain the Freshman team will have a meet with the Carolina Freshmen there, and, in all probability,
a second meet—this to be staged on the Hill—will be arranged.

The college varsity’s schedule with other colleges is as follows:
State—Here, January 15th.
Army—There, February 5th.
Duke—Here, February 13th.
V. P. I.—Here, February 10th (Pending).
Carolina—Here, February 26th (Pending).

On the trip North when the West Point Cadets are met on February 5th, another foe will probably be engaged,
either the team of the East Side New York Y. M. C. A. or that of the Baltimore Y. M.
C. A. The first meet of the season will be held with the Concord Y. M. C. A. on January
8th there. A second meet with Concord will be here on January 21st. Coach Weems announces that next week before
the Christmas holidays the tryouts for different weights will be held.

“Charlie,” gently sighed his sweetheart, (Red as a rose grew his face) “If you’ve never loved another How then learned
you to embrace?”

Joyously he clasped her in his arms.

Coach Younger and Faculty Director of Athletics Wood have just returned from athletic conferences in Florida. Younger attended a meeting
at which seventy-five coaches representing the entire South were present. Plans for an organization to be known as the “Southern
Coaches Association” were perfected. Professor Wood was a listener-in at the Southern Conference. Davidson was again placed on the list
of approved colleges that could be met by S. I. C. members.

Beginning with this issue, The Davidsonian will pursue a policy of classifying ads. In this issue and in all issues
hereafter, advertisements of all neighboring theaters will be placed on page eight. Professional notices will also be grouped together on
the same page. Other types of advertising matter will be similarly classified.will be classified within the near future. Readers are
requested to take notice of these classifications for their own convenience. And whispered in her ear with haste, “Two years
I’ve played football,” he said, “And I learned to tackle round the waist.”

Younger and Wood Back From Athletic Meetings — Held in Jacksonville, Florida City Host to Southern Conference Members and Seventy-Five
Coaches

Coach “Monk” Younger has just returned from Jacksonville, Fla., where he attended a meeting of Southern coaches. There were about
75 coaches present at this meeting, and plans for an organization to be known as the “Southern Coaches Association” were
formed. A committee, composed of H. B. Hutchins, of Lake Wales, Fla., and F. E. Castarar, of Atlanta, Ga., was
appointed as an organization committee to lay the plans of the meeting before the Association of Southern Football Officials. The
coaches present expressed themselves as in favor of the present custom of studying the opponent’s plays as is done in
scouting. They voted that no trophies be given to teams for winning championships. When the question of shifts was brought
up, there was a difference of opinion. Some were in favor of abolishing the shifts altogether.

Prof. W. W. Wood has also just returned from Jacksonville. Professor Wood was there about two days after Coach Younger,
and attended a meeting of the Southern Intercollegiate Conference. He reports that Davidson will not be able to get into
the Southern because of the fact that the Conference already has as many members as it wants, and will not
take in any more at the present time. Davidson’s name has been before the Conference for several years, and very
probably would have no trouble in getting in at this time, were it not for the Conference being full.

FIRST PUBLIC INITIATION (Continued from page 1)

than the members of the student body. Two boys were even seen to go so far in their efforts to
evade the monogram men, as to take up their beds and hie themselves to the nearby woods in an endeavor
to spend a peaceful night under the cold and wintry stars. They were seen to return soon after, however, resolved
to face death at the hands of the “D” Club rather than bear the brutal effects of exposure.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING Charlotte, N. C.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CHARLOTTE GREENVILLE S&W Cafeterias ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

Cage Stars Begin Regular Work-Outs

Basketball has come to the front again. Regular daily practice started on November 29th, and the men are now hard
at work. They have been under the efficient tutelage of “Dutch” Hengeveld and Monk Mattox while Coach Younger was putting
the finishing touches to football and attending a meeting of coaches in Florida. Coach Monk took charge Monday and will
begin whipping his team into shape. The letter men who are back this year are Captain Anderson, Simpson, Wilson, and
Harrison. Other men working hard for a place on the team are McAuley, R. G. Calhoun, D. M. Calhoun, Hunt,
Hudgins, Crawford, Gilmour, Ohsiek, Sturdevant, McColgan, and Leftwich. About 15 men make up the squad at present. McAuley, R. G.
Calhoun, Hudgins, and Sturdevant, besides the letter men, have been showing up especially well in practice. The cagers face a
hard schedule this year, both in teams played here and those played away from the Hill. The first game is
played here on December 18th with Salisbury “Y”. Salisbury is reported to have an especially strong team, boasting such members
as Flake Laird, last year’s Wildcat captain, and John Schenk, also a former Davidson cage star. Concord “Y” is also
reported as having a strong quintet this season. A few minor changes have been made in the schedule since it
was last made public, the place of one or two games being changed. In all probability the Union Theological Seminary
team will be met here on January 13th, 14th or 15th, one of these three dates, and Manager Carroll is
negotiating with Wofford with regard to a game on January 18th.

STUDENTS RESPOND (Continued from page 1)

following close behind. Joe Frierson, W. L. Lingle, Bob Link, George Batte, Charles McRae, and Boyce Martin were the captains
of their respective dormitories. Captains were appointed also for the collection of pledges in the various fraternity houses and from
the boys living in town. The campaign was conducted, as has been the custom for the past two years, under
the direction of the “Y” cabinet. Plans for the allotment of the total amount contemplate the forwarding of slightly more
than half of the funds to Warren Cox, at the Hangchow Christian College in China, to meet a deficit in
his support of last year; while the remainder was to go to the Edgar Tufts Foundation for the furtherance of
mission work among the mountain folk of western North Carolina. Edgar Tufts, ’22, who has succeeded his father at the
head of the Tufts’ orphanage and hospital, in the mountains, will use the Davidson gifts in the promotion of health,
happiness and culture among the people of the mountains.

Professional Notices

Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65-J DR. VANCE HASTY DENTIST Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance Commercial National Bank Building STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays 12 to 2

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated MANUFACTURERS OF BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS Mooresville, N. C. CALL US FOR
SPECIAL ORDERS

Introducing to the readers of The Davidsonian REV. ERNEST TRICE THOMPSON, D. D. Professor of Church History UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

EVERY minute $1104 worth of property is consumed by fire and every day 42 persons burned to death with 46
injured. Be careful and help stop this awful waste.

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr. Insurance Department INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN DENTIST 311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building Charlotte, N. C. Phones: Office 5050. Residence,
1937-3

DR. G. A. LAZENBY DENTIST Statesville, N.C. Phone 494

LANCE Quality Products Delivered same day made. All dealers LANCE PACKING COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N. C.
