THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1926

“How did you come out on your review?”
“Oh, I knocked ’em cold.”
“How is that?”
“Got a perfect zero.”

For prompt and satisfactory service visit Paul Richardson’s Barber Shop, 202 S. Church St.

BRUISES
Apply alternately hot and cold wet cloths to bruised or abraded parts. Spread on Vicks thickly and cover with a
light cloth. Repeat every few hours.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

WRIGLEY'S
makes your food do you more good. Note how it relieves that stuffy feeling after hearty eating. Sweetens the breath,
removes food particles from the teeth, gives new vigor to tired nerves. Comes to you fresh, clean, and full-flavored.

J. L. DORAN
Plumbing and Heating
Steam Vapor Hot Water
Arcola Specialty
Let us figure on your next job
“Service that Serves”
Phone 29
Davidson, N. C.

Fellows:
You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, Davidson, N. C.

Slim Vaughn has such a dumb sweetie that she asked him who was that girl that all the Davidson boys
were drinking to.

“I know where you can get a good chicken dinner downtown for ten cents.”
“Where?”
“At the feed store.”

Here lie the bones of Tommy Jones
To grace this quiet spot;
Poor Tom was lit when he was hit—
Too bad his lights were not.

Prof.—“Can you prove that the square of the hypotenuse is equal to the square of the other two sides?”
Fresh—“I don’t have to prove it; I admit it.”

The results of a careful canvass of the student body show that there were only three boys who did not
get at least one necktie for a gift Christmas. The highest number received was thirty-seven. The prize goes to Jim
Appleboy, who never wore a tie in his life. He is selling his gifts for two-bits each.

Bone for exams while you may—
Time brings only sorrow;
You're shooting the bull and loafing today,
And you're on exams tomorrow.

With the return of the students came the debut of the Senior coats. None of the fresh knew what to
make of the appearance of these strange articles of apparel. One of the class of ’ wanted to know what
band was to play here, another asked if those were the gifts which the student body presented the janitors, and
a third wished to know where they were.

Someone evidently hit boy 29 monkeys and grind organs found out why ‘Brown Eyes’ is ‘Blue.’ We've just him in
the eye.

With a great deal of effort, aided by the persuasion of a couple of golf clubs and a shotgun, we
have been allowed by Droopy, well-known native of the third floor of East, to publish a letter that he wrote
to his girl. It will be found elsewhere in this paper. Be sure to read it.

Prof.—“Have you been reading Longfellow?”
Stewed—“No, sir, only about twenty minutes.”

Alexander Yancey Bowie, Junior, says he is going to write a song-hit called, “My Sweetie Turned Me Out,” instead of
the well-known “My Sweetie Turned Me Down.”

A certain member of the student body has just received a new copy of the Sears and Rareback catalogue, and
in looking through the grocery section has solved the puzzle of the gravy problem. They are offering it for sale
by the barrel. That's where the town boardinghouses are getting their supplies. This gravy has never seen a hog, cow,
mule, or horse.

Write your own ticket, and you needn't sign it.

“Have you seen any reindeer today?”
“No, darling, but I did go out in the snow for a while.”

ARMY SALVAGE CO. OFFERS:
Everything in army goods---Hobnails---army shoes---boots---army shirts---lumberjack shirts---wool army trousers---leather leggings. Come to see us and get fixed up for the
rough weather.
ARMY SALVAGE CO.
Statesville, N.C.

Bordeaux, the witty, strolled into Cashion’s Exclusive Cafe early last Monday morning and ordered two hotdogs with sauerkraut. He was
much surprised to hear the waiter yell, “Two pups with the bedding.”i DEUCE IS WILD

Last night I held a hand
So dainty and so neat;
I thought my heart would surely burst,
So wildly it beat.
No other hand unto my heart
Could greater pleasure bring
Than that I held last night, which was—
Four deuces and a king.

“What is love?”
“Well, the poet says it is two souls with but a single thought, two hearts that beat as one.”
“That’s not love. Love is a tickling sensation in your heart that you can’t scratch.”

“This is the forest primeval,” said Lockhart as he stroked his upper lip.

Life is like a game of cards. The queen always follows the jack.

The freshies are a funny lot,
For, be they dark or fair,
The only time they use their heads
Is when they comb their hair.

According to college regulations, freshmen should park their Kiddie Kars behind the armory.

We suggest that the holidays just past be called MULETIDE instead of YULETIDE.

Married couples often have words, but it seems that only the wife uses them.

“Does your wife pick all your suits for you?”
“No, just the pockets.”

Bus Lawson says going out of the United States to get a drink is just like going out of a
barber shop to have a haircut.

Sam Belk, the radio hound, bought a couple of loud speakers last week. We asked him why he got two
of them and he replied that he wanted to let his brother listen in at the same time he did.

Bill Woods—“I’ve sure got a bad case of insomnia.”
Popper Murchison—“Whazzamatter, can’t you sleep?”
“I waked up twice in class this morning.”

“They say Ben Ratchford had a glint of intelligence; that was the sun shining through the back of his head.”

Marge—“Is Buck Shaw a ladykiller?”
Margie—“I’ll say he is; he starves ’em to death.”

You can lead a dumbbell to a conclusion, but you can’t make him think.

WE WERE JUST WONDERING

If a figure of speech is a synonym of a beautiful woman.
We've been to shows and seen the clowns
Do all their funny tricks,
But they don’t have to show when it comes
To the coats of twenty-six.

The Davidson Wildcats received a “cold reception” shortly after their return to the old campus, after spending a delightful vacation
with their loved ones and their “girls;” but all except the Freshmen got a “white deal” in the transaction. Coming
at the proper time to replace a coat of leaves that had been cleared away during the holidays, a cold,
white snow blew in from the northeast to adorn the campus for the first week after Christmas vacation. The weather
department predicts mud for the next thirteen days and nights. Snow is very rare in these parts and everyone was
glad to welcome it except the Freshmen, who are very susceptible to cold feet. Several of the above-mentioned species, being
unable to keep warm by the meager heat of their radiator, departed for the golf course, where they enjoyed the
whole Saturday afternoon grouped around a glowing bonfire. Others, less ambitious and more suspicious, visited the neighboring towns of Mount
Mourne and Mooresville, where hospitality was found.

The omnipresent novelty and romance that is associated with the snow of all climes and all ages have not been
lacking in this instance. Aside from inspiring Buford Webb to learn the art of skiing, it has furnished inspiration of
another kind to our poet and novelist, Gordon McCutcheon. He has recently begun a poem which promises to be his
masterpiece, and which he hopes to submit for the public’s approval not later than the next rainy season. His title
as suggested by the snow is “Let It Snow.”

The class garments of '26 would look better if they had a coat of black paint.

When in Mooresville
Visit Mack & Lkall for your
High Grade Candy
Cigarettes and Fruit

ANNOUNCING
The re-opening of WILLIAMSON’S BOARDING HOUSE on February 1 under the supervision of MRS. LASSITER. You all know her reputation
as a housekeeper. This will not affect in any way the boarding house Mrs. Lassiter operates now. Our price has
not been changed: $22.00.
WALTER LYNCH.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
DRUGS AND SUPPLIES
“Prescriptions a Specialty”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

NOW! At Efird’s
LeBon Bros. Suits and
MEN’S SECTION
25 Per Cent Discount on Suits and Overcoats
Including Fashion Park, Fashion Park and Heidelberg Wolfe Overcoats.
and Curlee
STREET FLOOR
