THE DAVIDSONIAN OCTOBER 28, 1926

Cross Country Men Elect Penn Captain

W. C. Penn, of Greensboro, N. C., was selected by the cross country team as their leader for the season
at a special meeting of the squad last week. Penn, a member of the class of '28, is one of
the best distance men Davidson has had in some time. He won his numeral his Freshman year and a monogram
last year in the two-mile event, lowering the college record for the distance by some seconds.

PLAYING THE GAME | By Caldwell Withers

Wake Forest Game | Grey’s Kicking Shoes | Virginia Cadets Next

Demon Deacons Fail to Defeat Wildcats

In spite of the predictions of sport writers, the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest failed to run over the Wildcats
in Charlotte last Saturday. Not a writer on any of the leading dailies of the state predicted even a tie
for the Davidson team. But the case was the same last autumn when the two teams battled four long, exciting
periods to a 7 to 7 count. Davidson kept the lead over all the teams in the State Saturday in
games won when the scrappy Wildcats upset the dope bucket and won a moral victory over the Deacons with the
tie score 3-3.

Spurlock Leads All Scorers—Dick Grey Boots Fifth Field Goal

To Spurlock, of Lenoir-Rhyne, goes the honor of having the most points to his credit. He has made eight touchdowns
and one extra point, piling up a grand total of 49 points. Lenoir-Rhyne did not play a game last Saturday,
and therefore Spurlock did not add to this imposing total score. Dick Grey's finely trained toe has made it possible
for him to maintain his big margin in the number of drop-kicks scored. He has five field goals to his
credit. His toe has been the deciding factor in two of the Wildcat victories, one over P. C. of South
Carolina and the other over N. C. State. It was also the chief factor in the 3-3 tie with Chapel
Hill and again two weeks ago against State at Raleigh, Grey sent the oval between the goal posts for the
necessary three points for victory.

The Deacon passing attack, touted so much this season, failed utterly in the Davidson game. The Baptists attempted 13 passes,
but only two were completed, three being intercepted and the remainder grounded. Davidson was more successful with the open attack,
having four of six to go astray, but completing two for good gains.

Freshmen Defeated by Blue Ridge Prep Team

The Davidson Wildkittens met defeat at the hands of the fast Blue Ridge team at Hendersonville last Friday. Blue Ridge
had the edge throughout the game and the Wildkittens failed to hit their stride until it was too late, and
as a result Blue Ridge emerged with the big end of a 20-8 score. Brown, of Blue Ridge, was the
star of the game, and with his exceptional speed was able to gain consistently throughout.

Davidson kicked off to Blue Ridge and on the first play they kicked back. DeArmond passed over Hampton's head and
a Blue Ridge player recovered the ball and ran for a touchdown. During the second quarter their center made a
bad pass, and the Blue Ridge fullback was downed behind his own goal line. The half ended with the score
7-2 in favor of Blue Ridge. In the third quarter the Kittens came into their own with numerous trick plays,
but were able to offer little resistance.

Juniors Snatch Lead in Fastest Game of the Season

Last Monday night in one of the fastest games of the season, the Juniors defeated the Seniors by the score
of 19-14. This leaves the Juniors leading the league with a record of no games lost. The Seniors have lost
only this one game. The game, however, was one that was postponed from the last week and was the first
time that these two teams had met. So, provided that neither of the teams loses another game, their next contest
will decide whether or not the Juniors will win the championship of the classes. The Freshmen class stands next to
the Seniors, having won half their games. As yet the Sophs have been unable to annex a game.

In this game Monday the Juniors started off by taking a four-point lead. Then the Seniors got going and the
score remained close till near the end of the half, when the Seniors forged ahead. The half ended with the
Seniors leading 8-7. They held this lead for a good part of the second half. In the comeback, Wells, Davidson,
and Sturdevant showed up best on the Soph team.

Friday night the Juniors ran away with the Fresh to the tune of 37-11. Kugler was the star for the
Juniors, scoring 19 of their 37 points. McGavock, Baker, and Smith scored field goals for the Fresh.

On Wednesday night of this week the Sophs meet the Juniors for the second and last time in the series.
Then, on Friday, the contest will decide whether or not the Juniors will win the championship of the classes.

Fact Finders Meet

(Continued from page 1)

Several other questions of this nature were discussed, and the committee expects to arrive at some definite conclusions which will
help solve these problems which have arisen.worthy foes. Lynchburg, the stage for DPOBDST SON Cate neue @ ae night the
Seniors will play the Fresh. The H . yES -R ? pepe) 3 y) e a ’ : + aU
any is set Dagtine Tih contest tz Sone ee ; last of the games in the class basketball league eCOrng
Field goal by dropkick : D. Grey, You'll always find a well- Seed | ; she ay t 4 :
avids > Rackley Tak ‘ores every angle.” Coming along to cheer their | 'S?°+ ed Sarena \ will likely be
played some time next week. (Davidson) ; Rackley (Wake Forest). ; 3 ~ team will be the entire corps of
the Virginia | Young, Car, nana 6 gar ile oal A eee Substitutions—Davidson ; Nisbet, S. Black, equipped U-Drive-It Ford
school, and many Davidson alumni, living in Outen, State --------- 6 ae = = Wilson, Harrison, Lincoln, Gooilykoontz,—J—}}— — ;
Sel orc rT TEI TPNH PETIA PETROL Gs VRC ; GREY AND RACKLEY ROOT Gi US eC ee he Hie
eat as where Davidson seldom plays, have |‘ ee cube Tey, AKC orest: Chakales, Phifer, at the rg t price
a indicated their intention of attending. How- | Bruton, Duke --.--- 0 (Continued from page 1) Cooper, 9 “We :
even now many, of the student supporters. of | ee ao.” Tee ; with a whirlwind drive. They made a
total _ Officials Hartsell: ( N.C. State), referee ; Henderson Ss Filling Station the Wildcats will be able to be
on hand. ‘fs pila ae Sees 1 3 of sever first downs for the game, and late Gass (Lehigh), umpire;
Alexander (Wash- Cay Milligan, H > . 1 . in the third bracket the Wake Forest team | ston and
Jefferson), head linesman. DAVID-ON, N.C . . ' Mi un SIMS ei Gh oe aa eee ios - ) yi
‘ ad ‘ TT; 2 ’ t 28 . ‘ Playing without the services of several aie ai ‘i ,
started from) their own .35-yard- line, and lime of periods: 15 minutes, 1 naval stars, the Wildkittens lost an erratic
game SE a italy | marche Javidson’s 21-yard line as the 5 ‘ a yy Ic pepe pet in erratic
game to | Beoneher ficn 1 litt 2 red to Davidson I-yard line as the ri ue-Ridge prep school team
last Fri- Owl. L.-R 1 ileus tod ended, , Monday day. However, the score would indicate thi OT GES Re
ER A Gaining seven yards in three tries, Rackley the high school boys have a ie aaron ee oT Ase
a s was called back for the fifth time for a drop- Tuesday R I A | 4 SEE IT!
; . 1Ocesimlsiskidasassoo Ti ae posal Sepa for ach Mattox has turned Se ee: Lee ee , - | aa
pad ‘pboted tlie pigskin entoden a Di ent Ww es ne MA rounded Fresh team Davidson niere ee ° g
| tig its for the three points that tied David- A S A PA SS ] Oo N F LO
WE R ! 1as cli ‘veral years. as | Cetera lson,. As'the closing mts neared, strat- AAG ( is claimed
in several years ArepawalliS tate 1 \ on A the clo ing. Moments ne ired, strat Just wait till you
see Greta Garbo in — ed egy of every conceivable nature was resorted The first call for the fall golf
tournament Wake Forest last Saturday. from the cellar when he saved the day for the Deacons witlf a lone field
goal. Rackley came Dick Grey and Leggette now tie for first Davidson's high Both players have a grand total of
18 points. Leg- gette has made three touchdowns, while Dick ! honors as scorer, Grey has piled up his total
with five field goals, one safety and one extra point. Individual scoring records in the State col legiate circles follow:
Rackley, W.-F. ------ 1 1 last of the third quarter, however, the Juniors woke up and did some scoring, which
Finally almost at the end of the game Calhoun dropped in a goal which practically cinched the game for ‘the
Juniors. The Seniors did no more scor- ing and the game ended 19 to. 14... Calhoun, Kugler and. MeCauley played
an especially for the Juniors, ,although the whole team did especially well. placed them ahead again. good game Calhoun and
Hudgins showed up well for the Seniors. On Wednesday of last week the Seniors va pal | . ~ ,{to
by both teams in an effort to break the own, and after a series of gains by Mathews and Christian
for something over 50 yards, Mathews was able to carry the ball over for a touchdown. In the third quarter
Davidson tried a pass, but the ball was grabbed from the passer’s hand. Bltie Ridge then put across their second
touchdown, Several min- utes later.on a triple cross buck Blue Ridge got through for yards their third counter. Blue Ridge
had the edge through- ou the game and was ing. They featured 25 and never in danger of los- wide
end runs and place as yet are uncertain. To finish off the season they will enter the State cross country
meet which, it is hoped, will be held at Da- vidson this year. The Athletic Association, for the first time
in the history of the college, monograms to the cross country team, ever, they offer letters only to the five
men making the best showing during the season, so there will be keen competition among the members for this distinctive
reward. offering How- is Ridenhour, State 3 i knotted score, but both had passes intercept- Others who have scored only
extra points, |ed. The game ended with the ball in David- was sounded last Monday. In spite of the |
fact that the entire team of last year, with the exception of one man, is not in school jand the
number of points scored follow: legal ; Son's possession on her own 33-yard marker, now, the managers are planning a
hard sched- |James, W. F., 3; Bohannon, Day., 2; Bennett, third down, five to 20, ule for the golfers. Several
matches with near-by country clubs are pending and a trip is planned to touch three or four colleges. For the
remainder of the season the David- son footballers will face only first-class teams. In order, after the V. M. I.
struggle, comes Hainpden-Sidney, North Carolina, and Duke. The Virginia Presbyterians have the best team in years and are coming to
Char- ' lotte planning for victory. Last fall the tilt between the Presbyterians resulted in a 6 to 6 tie.
Carolina, defeated Saturday by Mary- land, has been constantly improving since their opening game with Wake Forest, and Duke has
returned South agin after holding Columbia University for three periods. In the last quarter the Nicotien’s defense crack- ed and
the Northerners pushed over several touchdowns. Se | Although no official announcement has been made concerning the advance sale of
tickets for the Davidson-Carolina game, it is rumored: that practically all the seats in -the new stadium have -been sold.
Should both contestants emerge from previous games | Duke, 4; Allen, Dav., 1; Brasser, Point, 1; Hager, L.-R.. 3. *Total
includes one safety. Team Records The records of the the State, | with “Big Five” teams listed first, showing intercollegiate
games won and lost, total | points and opponents’ points, follow: | W. L. Pts. O.P. teams of Davidson 22220222452
5 0 82 9 |*Wake Forest -----__ 2 25a 26 Dike see ees 2 SF 7c 239 Gafolitiass-2s- === 2
3 #19 * 61 State: seen ook Pe 1 4 13 48 Lenoir-Rhyne ~------- 4 0 130 0 A. C.
College -------_ 2 le 12 7 *High Point -...---__ 1 2 20 36 1S ber Sacaia eeaee 0 4+ 13
102 Gililford nec oe soc 0 3 4 664 *Played one tie game. , | Scan | : undefeated, a
record-breaking crowd will be on hand to witness the contest. The result will have a direct bearing on the champion-
ship race. High | Captain Lucien Wells and Dick Grey were backfield shining lights for~Davidson, while | Pinkney and Ritchie
were outstanding in the line, the entire Davidson team playing heads- up football. For Wake Forest, Rackley and “Ober were
prominently the «backfield lumi- naries, with Riley and Emmerson, of the forward berths, playing a pretty game. Both teams were
playing with all their varsity /men in the line-up and both teams fighting | desperately, No ‘alibis need be offered
by ‘either team. The line-up: | Davidson (3) Position. W. Forest (3) Piikneyrecsososers |B} Dg paige Clayton ! Bohannon --------
By teraratiees Saye Phelps | Mitchell __..._____ 1 Re ach Weir McConnell _____- Center, <. 25-2 Woodward Boggsci) =o =
RGisse ee L. Person Ritchie sso Sos RT oo Emmerson | Arrowood ~-----=- RB 2 ener Riley | Sappenfield _______
QB _====- Rackley (c) Wells (c) -------- 1 Of is Regen er eee Ober Dr Gtey: sco oes 1,9 Leeper
oe Hackney | Leggette --..--____ BBs cates Sykes | Score by quarters: 7 Bavyidson eseeess 2 03 0 0-3 Wake
Forest -_....----___ 00 0 3-3 Union Theologica] Seminary RICHM °ND, VIRGINIA Introducing to the readers of The Davidsonian Rev. Thonis
Cary Johason, D. D., LL. D., Pro- fessor af Systematic Theology. Dr. Johnson in his thirty-five yeirs af Union Paeological
Seminary has Probibty taught more Davidson men than any liv_ ing teacher outside of the College faculty. \
