oe - e ~ se THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1926. Matters pertaining to the educational world in general are likely
to be threshed out at this session. Davidson faculty will be ably represented by President W. J. Martin and Doctors
I. W. Lingle, C. R. Harding, J. L. Douglas, E. F. Shewmake, and Henderson.

College Heads of State to Convene

College presidents and professors from all over North Carolina will meet in Durham for the eighth annual meeting of the
North Carolina Association of Colleges to be held at the Washington Duke Hotel, November 29. The conference will remain in
session.

Many people over the entire United States question the ethics of having military training in colleges, universities, and schools, such
as Davidson College. They argue that it seems incongruous with Christian principles, and that a martial spirit is inculcated in
the minds of the students. Davidson College was awarded distinguished rating in the R.O.T.C. department last June, an honor toward
which every school in which there is a military unit works. It was a signal distinction to the local organization,
but immediately the question arose in many minds if it were the proper thing to have a military unit at
Davidson.

Several editorials were written during the summer months, notably those appearing in The Camp McClelland Messenger, published at Anniston, Ala.,
which is edited by Capt. John W. Wilkins, one of the officers stationed at Davidson College. Under the caption, “Military
Training and Religion,” Capt. Wilkins cites Davidson particularly and defends the presence of this work in the Presbyterian institution. His
editorial along that line is as follows:

“The individuals—sometimes known as rabid pacifists—who would do away with military training in our colleges and schools, and thereby make
this country defenseless in another national emergency, frequently hide behind the skirts of the Church in setting forth their theories.
One of their strongest arguments against military training appears to be that it is irreligious and should be condemned on
this score.

“In this connection, the awarding of distinguished college rating to Davidson College by the war department is interesting. The Presbyterian
Church controls the college and it is from this institution that a great many ministers of that denomination come. Since
the founding of the school in 1837, over 750 of its graduates have entered the ministry. The whole atmosphere about
the college contains a religious element and one of the largest clubs is known as the Ministerial Band.”

WHY THE R. O. T. C.

Collegiate Shoes
Smart Styles at moderate prices
ON DISPLAY
Nov. 28th and Nov. 29th at Henderson’s Jewelry Store
College Rep.: F. B. WILKINSON
Hofheimer Rep.: J. W. PARKER

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
A complete line of Stationery, Toilet Articles, and Kodak Supplies
We are ready to serve you
Drugs, Cigarettes, Cigars
Dunhill & Kaywoodie Pipes
Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach, and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

“I’d love to call you my sweetheart”
Come in and hear these--soon
I’d Love to Call You My Sweetheart...-Fox Trot
Kentucky Lullaby---Waltz
Jesse Crawford with Goldkette’s Book-Cadillac Orchestra
Trying to Forget.--Fox Trot, With Vocal Refrain.
Don’t Be Angry With Me --Fox Trot.
Russo and Fiorito’s Oriole Orchestra
Goldkette’s Book-Cadillac Orchestra
All Alone Monday.--Fox Trot (from The Ramblers). With Vocal Refrain
Nat Shilkret and the Victor Orchestra
That Night in Araby---Fox Trot, That’s a Good Girl. With Piano.
Precious. With Piano. With Vocal Refrain.
Edwin J. McEnelly’s Orchestra
Jack Smith (The Whispering Baritone)
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Music Dept.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The “Y” Column

The “Y” wishes to call the attention of the student body to the National Student Conference to be held in
Milwaukee on December 28-January 1. The Davidson “Y” hopes to send a delegate to this very important series of meetings.
Y. Deputations scheduled for this week will go to Salisbury, Gastonia, Stony Point, and Hobson’s Church.

Shearer Hall—6:15 p.m., Sunday, November 28. Are you going to be there?

Our secretary is back from quite an extensive trip through the Southern States, on which he visited many of the
leading schools of this territory. In connection with this recent trip, he also announced that he will attend on Friday,
November 26, a meeting in Chapel Hill of several “Y” secretaries of Southern colleges to discuss a new movement in
Y. M. C. A. work. Among the schools represented will be Georgia Tech, University of Georgia, Emory, W. and L.,
N. C.State, University of N. C., and Davidson. There will be several affairs similar to the one held on Thanksgiving
night, sponsored by the “Y,” arranged for the next few months. In fact, it is planned to have two or
three before the Christmas holidays. A splendid little reception was put on Thanksgiving for all those who stayed on the
Hill that day. Hot chocolate, sandwiches, and fruit were served, and everything was done to make the evening an enjoyable
one for everybody.

An Older Boys’ Conference is to be held in Winston-Salem on December 3, 4, and 5. Five representatives of the
Davidson Hi Y are to go, the delegation being sponsored by the D. C. “Y.” Those who are planning to
go are: John D. McConnell, president of the club; “Spec” Caldwell, Frank Buckner, Hallie Wilson, and Joe White.

On Sunday, December 5, the speaker at the vesper service will be Dr. Way, rector of St. Mary’s, a famous
Episcopal junior college and preparatory school. Dr. Way is known for his remarkable influence on men. He is also athletically
inclined, a lover of nature, and truly an outdoor man. He will bring a message filled with life and vigor,
and one that will be well worth hearing. Plan now to hear him.

A number of books, printed by the Associated Press, have been ordered and they will be available in the rooms.
These are books of interest for men in all phases of religious life and include volumes such as the following:
“Christianity and the Race Problem,” “The Meaning of Prayer,” “Moral Sanitation,” “Morning Watch,” etc. Look them over when they are
put out and pick out one.

JUNIOR MINSTREL

The Junior class is planning to pull off a big stunt to pep up the boys on the night before
they go on an extended tour of two weeks to eat Christmas turkey. The class is very well stocked with
a number of comical characters, some of whom will endeavor to display their talent in a negro minstrel. Bud Guthery,
a most talented fellow of that class, plays the role of manager, while under him Mutt Stigler and Bobby Glenn
will feature the footlights of the affair. Another one of the outstanding members of this minstrel is Jim McAlister, who
acquitted himself most credibly in the Junior stunt. Ed Wilson will also be an added attraction for the event. From
the display that the Junior class made in their play on Stunt Night, they will probably be good. They have
several plans that they have not made public yet for securing the money to offset the expense of Junior Week.
A nominal sum will be required of all those admitted.

Dear Peanut Parcher:

I have read with interest your advice and believe that you will be able to offer me some valuable assistance.
I snore so loud every night that I wake myself up and can rarely go back to sleep. My case
puzzles all the doctors.

Sleeplessly waiting,
Abe Lincoln.

Dear Abe:

In your case, I'd advise you to sleep in another room. I know of others who have found relief by
doing so.

Fraternally,
The Editor.

Davidson Golfers Down Statesville

The Davidson golfers journeyed to Statesville last Saturday, November 20, for a match with a club of that city, which
they won by the decisive score of 13 to 5. The team making the trip from Davidson was composed of
the following men, who played in the order mentioned: Steve McGill, Bill Wolfe, Ben Wilson, Boyce Martin, and Arthur Mills.
The match was begun with the playing of two foursomes. McGill and Wolfe, playing first, won from DeArmond and Wagner,
of Statesville, six to five. Wilson and Martin won from Gillam and Harris by a very close score. The method
used in determining the score of each team was that the winning team of each nine holes was to receive
one point and also the winner of the entire eighteen holes. This gave each team an equal basis and simplified
the matters of keeping the score. McGill won from DeArmond five and four; Wolfe defeated Wagner five to four; Wilson,
playing Gillam, tied the first nine and won the second and the match; Martin lost to Harris three and two;
while Mills tied his match, losing his first and winning the second from Cooper. After bad weather the early part
of the week, the condition of the Statesville course was not at its best, which was responsible for the poor
scores made by the players. The Davidson boys stated that they were used to that from their early practices. A
return match will be played on the Davidson course in about two weeks. It is not yet known whether the
date, December 4th, will suit both teams.

SORE MUSCLES

Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.

Vicks

Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

BRADY PRINTING CO.
COLLEGE PRINTERS
Stationery, Books, Greeting Cards
STATESVILLE, N. C.

WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Next Week Only

A 10 percent reduction on all goods. This is a wonderful opportunity to save on Pennants and Pillow Cases before
Christmas. Week of Nov. 29-Dec. 4

STUDENTS
