4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 18, 1925

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. W. JAMES Managing Editor
L. D. WELTON Assistant Managing Editor
F. K. BELK Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER Associate Editor
J. B. BOWIE Associate Editor
J. B. SHELBY Exchange Editor
H. D. BURKE Business Manager
W. R. WRENN Assistant Business Manager
J. D. DAVIS Assistant Business Manager
W. F. COVINGTON Circulation Manager
J. N. LAKE Assistant Circulation Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD Assistant Circulation Manager
G. M. EDDINGTON Club Editor
N. S. BROYLES Club Editor
V. LINGLE Club Editor
C. MURCHISON Club Editor
W. H. ALLISON Club Editor
R. McILWAINE Club Editor
H. M. AUSTIN Club Editor
J. P. McKNIGHT Club Editor
C. PRAGAW Club Editor
A. M. SPARROW Club Editor
D. M. CALHOUN Club Editor
I. G. WHARTON Club Editor
W. T. WILSON Club Editor
W. H. RANKIN Club Editor
C. WITHERS Club Editor
W. S. GORDON Club Editor
W. S. WOODS Club Editor
JOHN GWIN Club Editor
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH Club Editor

EDITORIAL CULTURE

After the few years of a man’s college life come the advent into a world that has startlingly changed since childhood days. To some it is as the finding of a new land by a mariner; others find it more or less familiar, but none who has ever experienced the joys and vicissitudes of college life discovers quite the same conditions that he left upon his graduation from high school. And when a man steps out of college with a diploma in his hand he has to blaze his pathway in the direction which he has chosen to follow. Many will find their way made easier by the efforts of others, but it remains for the majority to suffer alone in the struggles that certainly come. To what extent a man is accorded commendation and merited rewards depends largely upon the effect that he makes upon people with whom he is in intimate, daily contact. Hardly anything gives away a man so quickly as a complete lack of manners or what we term culture.

Culture is not so much a high degree of book learning nor of rules laid down by men. It is rather a cultivation of the finer side of a person's nature, that brings out the best there is in him. It is not found in his personal appearance nor in a preponderance of weighty knowledge, even a careful show of manners does not bespeak of culture in all cases. A college man should so choose and so direct his thoughts that he attains some degree of culture. Each one may ask himself the following questions that will in a measure act as a criterion for a judgment of one’s status in human society. As a college student are you preparing yourself to live a full life in the world and to take a portion of its burdens upon your shoulders? Can you discern facts and weigh them with an unbiased mind, giving credit where it is due? Can you overlook petty personalities and judge others upon their worth and merit? Can you carry on an intelligent conversation with an intelligent person, talking of things other than sports, movies, and campus small talk? Can you keep your head up in all walks of society, associating with all, but keeping your self-respect? College is not for the purpose of cramming facts into a man’s head. He will soon forget them, at least most of them. He should be enabled to judge and be judged, and only then will he attain a culture that bespeaks a real gentleman.

JAZZED HISTORY

A recent editorial by Rupert Hughes, widely known novelist, in the Red Book, has aroused a tidal wave of hostile criticism throughout the length and breadth of the United States. Treating as it does of George Washington, a popular hero if there ever was one, this piece of writing attacks the character of one whom we have come to regard as a sort of patron saint of our country. Certainly, the editorial has met with no favor in the regard of the masses of the country. Mr. Hughes, who is somewhat iconoclastic in his writings, chooses to refer to Washington as a swashbuckling man of the times, who swore and drank prodigiously; a red-haired ignoramus who was a social lion among the dark-eyed ladies of his time. The writer throws aside all the little traditions that we have come to regard as a part of the history of our country as expressed in its first President. Mr. Hughes will get nowhere with this kind of editorial comment because such a character as George Washington is impregnable to the attacks of minds who seek to destroy images and ideals. Washington’s memory has defied the test of time because his character was of a firm foundation. No man who experienced such hardships and reverses as he, and kept a clear mind through it all, can be accused of shallowness. Washington was loyal and devoted in times of distress and grand in time of victory. His manner was that of a chivalrous knight and he was never overbearing. Lafayette, when he visited this country a number of years after the Revolution, spoke of Washington as a man among men. Jefferson and Adams were of the same opinion. Their judgment, with that of several million sensible Americans who chose him twice for the presidency and wished him to continue in that office, should count for something more than any latter-day historian who besmirks his work with suggestions and glosses over the weaknesses and foibles that are a part of every human life. Washington had his faults as has everyone else, but we have discerned the towering manhood in the figure that dominated America during the early days of the formation of the new country. And on his birthday, we should stop to consider the traits of character and the humanness of spirit that has made the name of Washington renowned and loved in every American home.

OUR DRAMATIC ISOLATION

One of the leading problems that face the student body today is our attitude toward the Dramatic Club and dramatics for the people of North Carolina. During the past years, Davidson, as well as the other denominational schools of the state, has yielded this field to the “Carolina Playmakers” who without doubt have carried on this work with unusual success. The appearance of the Davidson Dramatic Club, or at least a small part of it, before the Woman's Club in Charlotte yesterday afternoon brings this matter again to our attention. The question seems to be: Are we going to continue our policy of dramatic isolation?

The objections to Davidson's entry into state-wide dramatics seem to be two-fold: lack of money and inadvisability of an additional college activity. Many say that a tour for the Dramatic Club would not meet with financial success; that the cost of moving a troupe of players numbering around twenty would be greater than could be met by the gate receipts at the various performances. We are of the opinion that this objection could be removed, one way or another, if the matter was properly entered into. The second objection is one that involves great possibility of difference of honest and sincere opinion. There are members of the Davidson faculty and members of the student body who say that Davidson, as most other colleges, is being overwhelmed by “student activities.” The enlargement of the program of the dramatic club would necessitate the opening of a greater field as far as extra-curriculum work is concerned. Whether such would be advisable is a matter that should be carefully considered by the student body, for in the end it will be the students who will be most acutely injured or benefited by the outcome.

A LITTLE THING

There is no doubt in any of the students’ minds that Davidson has the right spirit toward visiting athletic teams on the campus. But the appearance of discourtesy should also be avoided. During the basketball games everyone seems to be anxious to show the greatest courtesy to the visitors. When other teams start shooting fouls everyone immediately takes up the cry of “SH-H-H.” This is intended to quiet the house, but visitors look upon this in a different light; they want to know whyThe spectators are so unsportsmanlike to hiss when the opponents are trying for fouls. This hissing sound lets everyone get quiet; the other fellow looks out for himself. Teams should avoid any appearance of rudeness as far as possible. Here is the opposing team. So, instead of hissing, let all sophs who were on the hill that Saturday are itching for another snow so that they can put the pepper to the new boys again. But as a whole, we think the freshies are a nice crowd of little boys.

Open Forum

OUR ADVERTISERS

Co-operation is necessary to the success of any line of endeavor. It is no less true in newspaper lines than in any other business enterprise. The important role played by business firms in the life of newspapers cannot be overestimated because it is through their loyalty and support that the financial phase is guaranteed. This is especially true in the field of college publications because of the limited circulation. It has been the policy of the business staff of The Davidsonian to render every possible service to the advertisers in The Davidsonian. The business staff is not unmindful of the fact that in order to carry out such a policy of co-operation, it is necessary not only to have the support of the business firms in their advertisements but also the loyal response of the students to the advertisements found in the columns of The Davidsonian. Every advertisement found in the columns of The Davidsonian represents “a Davidson rooter.” Let's stick by our advertisers and show them our appreciation by patronizing them.

H. D. BURNE, Business Manager

PRESIDENT CHASE

Most recent newspaper reports confirm a rumor that President Harry W. Chase, of the University of North Carolina, has received a flattering offer of the presidency of the University of Oregon. Immediately, the great student body and a host of faculty friends petitioned Dr. Chase to retain his North Carolina position. We heartily add our voice to theirs in urging upon Dr. Chase the genuine need of a man of his caliber at our institution of learning. As Chief Executive of the University, Dr. Chase has probably won for himself the name of the intellectual leader of the state. He has carried out his great educational program in the face of the deep-rooted prejudice of ignorant but powerful groups to whom all transcendent heights of progressiveness in intellectual realms are the object of suspicion and hatred. Nor has he remained aloof from the realm of legislation when his services were needed, even though he could not have been ignorant of the storm of hostility which his action was certain to arouse. In his courageous battle against the archaic and contemptible Pool Bill, he won the sincere admiration of those who hold as sacred the right to think and teach the apparent truth, especially when this seeming truth is accepted by a majority of the educated persons of the world. The bitter and insulting criticism which his action provoked among other classes is a compliment to his character; naturally, they hate the man who harrows their hopes of intellectual freedom and right. When most others discreetly avoided the scorching denunciations of a few superstitious journals, whose only original merit is their ability to depict voluminously the latest family gossip, or the fanatical epithets of the unwashed as recently exhibited in the great ravings of one Wurtees of Winston-Salem, Dr. Chase fought in the open. And college men, whatever their faults, admire the man who dares the bigoted mob. We need Dr. Chase at Carolina!

ROLAND E. PARNER

Minor Chords

SONNET

My being is deep, cast in sordid mire,
The light is shut without my clouded brain,
My faithless will seeks only to retire,
Minus of care and cheer I cannot feign,
With nature bleak as though the end is near,
The flowers gone, sear are the fields do show,
No harvest reddening trees, summers loss so drear,
Joy for hunger to appease, no sad array,
But when in thought your vision bids me sing,
And cast aside the cloak of care and cheer,
Chaos flees when Jove his volts do fling,
Then tribute to thy grace all seek to pay,
In thee are coalesced the Muses' charm,
And symbol, wards off harm,

Philip C. Shook, Jr.

Dr. Ogden, of Mobile, will hold services here among the students next week. It is naturally expected that the entire student body will attend these meetings, but it is also hoped that many will seek private conferences. Dr. Ogden is especially interested in those men who have not yet chosen their life work. Conferences will be arranged by the committee for all who desire to talk over their future with Dr. Ogden.

RADIO NEWS

It is understood by this department that the famous engineer, Ezekial P. Gunneysack, A.B.C., is hard at work on an invention that will turn the radio world topsy-turvy. The plan is to broadcast to the poor Eskimos in order to warm them up. The world looks forward anxiously to the announcement of the completion of the invention.

RADIO-WIT

One: “I got China last night on a one-tube set!”
Two: “Shux! I stuck my hand out the window and got chilly!”
Three: “Rotten! I got grease on my pocket vest!”
Head: “I took my radio set all to pieces last night.”
Phone: “Oh, you're a radio expert, are you?”
Head: “No, I haven't put it back together yet.”
Station: “I have a radio set but I can't tune it.”
Way: “Ah, you've been eating fish.”
Nan: “I don't see why you can't fix that buzzing sound.”
Mor: “Was. I've got to get a new coupler.”

ON THE AIR TONIGHT

Station WHAM. Wavelength variations. At eight o'clock; music by the Lone-Two Orchestra consisting of four novelty harmonicas, one oboe, and a sphinx.

Station BULL. Hotel Knickenback, Zoo City. Dr. Rippinsnort of Hawvid College will lecture at length on the “Superiority Complex,” with personal experiences. Dance music by the latest hits, refreshments served. Send night-letters.

Station FLOP. First Holy Roller Church of Mobile. A spirited program consisting of seven testimonials, two solos entitled, “Where was Moses when the lights went out.”

Station MOO. Capt. Billy's Dairy Farm. Somewhere in the West. Gus the hired man will entertain with a talk entitled, “Operating a dairy with one cow and a pump.”

Station TAXI. The Black and White Cab Co. New Orleans. The first string quintet will register, “Meter on Broadway.” The orchestra will then play that ballad written by the taximen, “I Never Look Back.”

Station SING. University of SING-SING, Farmville, N.C. The Rock Crushers Duo will render that crushing song by the warden, “Break. Break, Break.” The Granite-Graters Jazz-hounds will entertain with a piece from the “Sledge Hammer Chorus” entitled “Bars and Stripes Forever.”

Station OICU. Kissimmee, Fla. Temperature normal. Miss Ima Flappah, local soprano, will sing several numbers including “John Pull the Shade Down.” Mr. Watterlier will speak on “Old Ned was only a stableman’s daughter.”

Station WHOA. Perkins Hack, Tenn. A revival of the debate at seven-thirty. Resolved: “That horseshoes are better than rubber tires.” At eight o'clock there will be a popping contest.

Station BANG. Frog Hollow, Ohio. An educational lecture by Cautious T. N. T. on the elevating and uplifting subject of “If a stump-puller won't, dynamite.” Dance music will be furnished by The Bomb Throwers Brigade.

Station SOS. Wave length, unknown. Amateur program at ten o'clock. Orchestrations, duets, solos, etc. Tryouts for the local debating society. Will sign off at ten-thirty on account of the curfew law.

Station HONK. Plant, Charlotte, N.C. An imported lecturer will speak on “One a Minute,” or “Why We Have Traffic Cops.” The Horntesters Quartette will then perform with several numbers, such as “You're Better’n I am, Hunka Vin,” by A. Star, and “I Had a Little Bird on My Car But the Radiator.”

Station SOCKS. Paris, Texas, center of the West. Mr. Oseau Hotte will speak to the man who cares on the subject, “Neckties as an Indicator of Personality.” As an encore he will give, “Tan Shoes with Cream Spats.” Music by The Double Breasted Sextette.