THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1926

DAVIDSON SPONSORS VOTE ON PROHIBITION QUESTION

At the request of the American Federation of College Students, an organization formed some months ago for the purpose of promoting thought and opinion on topics of world-wide interest among college students, The Davidsonian will on Saturday morning distribute ballots at the chapel exercises, by means of which a vote of Davidson students will be taken on the very lively issue of prohibition.

Probably there has never been another issue in America quite like the one that is now attracting attention in all sections of the country. Certainly, there has never been one that exceeded it in the intensity of feeling that has animated the two sides of this bitter all-American controversy. The “Wets” have had their say, and the prohibitionists have spoken their minds. There has been no suggestion of compromise, no passing of petty compliments. It has been a deadly grapple.

While neutral observers seem willing to agree that thus far the battle has ended in a draw, the drys say they have proved their case, while the wets retort that the verdict must be in their favor. Now the ordinary citizen and the college student can take his choice. It is hoped by The Davidsonian that local students have already familiarized themselves with this all-important issue, that they have acquainted themselves with the questions involved, and that they have already formed some definite opinion. But, lest the proposed ballot should be taken lightly and the results should fail to truthfully indicate Davidson sentiment, The Davidsonian offers herewith the outstanding contentions of the two sides in the great conflict that is attracting such world-wide attention.

Contentions of the Wets

Here is what the “wets” started out to prove, and that they insist they have established to be the facts.

First—Prohibition cannot be enforced with any degree of success by the Federal Government, the States, or the municipalities. It would take an army and a vast sum of money to make it even reasonably successful.

Second—It has created an army of bootleggers, who are now allied with some of the “best” elements in the electorate.

Third—Instead of decreasing drunkenness, prohibition has increased it everywhere in the nation. It has turned hundreds of thousands of homes into distilleries and breweries. It has bred corruption in both national and state governments. It has many times increased the deaths due to alcoholism, has increased diseases of a social nature, and is corrupting the youth, girls as well as boys, of the nation.

Fourth—It has proved to be an unpopular as well as unfair law. Under it, the rich maintain well-filled cellars, while the working classes pay prohibitive prices to bootleggers for poisonous beverages, instead of having the opportunity to enjoy a glass of beer or wine of mild alcoholic content.

Fifth—Prohibition has congested the courts to the breaking point, State as well as Federal tribunals. It has filled to more than capacity the Federal penitentiaries.

Sixth—It has created a nation-wide disrespect for law and order and has made law-breaking a popular diversion, so far as alcoholic drinks are concerned.

The Drys Make Answer

These charges the drys sought to answer. They insist they made their case and that every accusation, every argument of the opposition was met and disproved. The drys hold that they established the following points:

First—Prohibition can be enforced. Federal activities in Cleveland and Chicago are proof of this. Enforcement is gaining effectiveness every day, and in the ordinary course of events, the time must come when prohibition will cease to be a problem and will be in force, in fact as well as in theory, in every State and town in the nation.

Second—The country is indeed overrun with bootleggers, but they are becoming fewer and fewer as the result of the warfare waged by officials in those parts of the country where an honest effort is made to enforce the law.

Third—The assertion that drunkenness has increased is false and cannot be substantiated by unchallenged statistics. Social diseases cannot be charged against prohibition any more than can murder or burglary. The youth of the land is not being corrupted to the extent charged.

Fourth—Prohibition has created millions of bank accounts for those who never had them in pre-prohibition times. It has increased the efficiency of every branch of American life and has saved the lives of countless men, women, and children.

Fifth—The law is approved by an overwhelming majority of the people, and any

Local R.O.T.C. Awards Medals to Best Drilled

Many Medals and Caps Will be Given

TWO CUPS AWARDED

National Rifle Team is Given Special Insignia to be Worn on Sweaters

Supporters of Davidson College have offered cups and trophies to members of the Military Department and units of the R.O.T.C. who were winners in the annual competitions held at the college.

Capt. Reid Morrison, of Mooresville, who is an official in the National Rifle Association and who commanded with distinction a battery of field artillery during the World War, gave a shooting medal for the best shot in the gallery rifle competitions. This trophy was won by J. B. Webb. Mr. Webb is also captain of the Hearst Trophy Team, the trophy in this instance being given by William Randolph Hearst for the best college rifle team in the country. In addition to the cup offered by Mr. Hearst, Captain Weems has awarded insignia to each member of the team, this insignia to be worn on a sweater. The men entitled to wear this insignia are J. B. Webb, A. W. Alexander, E. E. Brown, T. L. Short, and R. G. Abernathy.

Maj. L. B. Crayton, O.R.C., of Davidson, N.C., an alumnus of Davidson College, has given a trophy to the member of the freshman class making the highest score in the gallery rifle practice. This trophy was won by S. W. McGill, who was high man in his class of 208 men.

The Chamber of Commerce of Charlotte gave a medal to the man judged to be the best corporal in the R.O.T.C. battalion. J. F. McCrary, of Asheboro, N.C., won this medal for himself and the Henderson Trophy for the members of his squad. The latter trophy consists of bar pins for individual members.of the squad and is given by the Henderson Jewelry Co., of Davidson. This squad was the fourth squad of the third platoon of Company D, Capt. L. L. Deck commanding the company. Members of the squad receiving medals are C. W. Harrison, T. C. Watkins, J. O. Wenberg, J. M. Sample, L. C. Wadsworth, S. W. Watkins, and J. S. Ervin. The P. M. S. and T. Cup, given by Captain Weems, was awarded for the best drilled platoon in the R. O. T. C. battalion. This trophy was won by the first platoon, Company A, Lieut. C. F. Houston, of Monroe, N. C., commanding. Company A is commanded by Capt. J. F. Moore, of Takamatsu, Japan. The Scabbard and Blade Trophy will be awarded to the best company in the Davidson College battalion. To date, the winner has not been decided. The White Drug Company medal was awarded to the best cadet in the Sophomore class. The medal is given by the White Drug Co., Davidson, N. C. Mr. Arbuckle is the son of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, of the Davidson College faculty. The J. H. Carson medal is awarded by Mr. J. H. Carson, a prominent alumnus of Davidson College, and is given to the man in the Freshman class who is decided the best man in his class from a military standpoint. This medal will be given to S. M. Watkins, who won out over the other members of the class of 208 men. Another medal to be awarded to a member of the Freshman class is the Stowe Brothers Medal, awarded by the new moving picture firm of Davidson. This medal goes to the best individual shot of the Freshman class on the college rifle range. The trophy has been won by J. K. Cook, who was high man in his class this year.

The fresh tennis team left the early part of the week for a trip on which they are to meet several of the best teams in the state. This jaunt is the first real trial that the netmen have had this year.

Effort to modify it or repeal any section of it is doomed to defeat. Sixth—State operation of the liquor traffic can never succeed in the United States. The assertion that it has proved a success in various Provinces of Canada will not stand investigation. Of course, there were other charges without number which the wets advanced and the drys challenged, but in the main, the indictment and the answer were as outlined.

New Courses to be Given This Summer

Four courses will be offered to students attending summer school at Davidson this summer. A course will be given in Zoology, one in Education, one in Spanish 2, and one in Greek 2. School will begin the day after commencement and will extend over a period of six weeks. Dr. W. L. Porter will teach the course in Zoology. This is a special course arranged to meet the requirements of a medical school and is not included in the regular college curriculum. Classes will begin the day after commencement at 8:00 a.m. Each day's work in the summer school will count as much as a week's work in the regular nine months’ course. The first part of the course will be taken up in the study of vertebrates, and the second part in the study of invertebrates. Dr. Fleagle will offer a course in education. This is a course especially interesting to teachers wishing either to raise or renew their license. It is a regular teachers’ course given at universities and is not really designed for students. However, any student wishing to take it can get a summer school credit in education equivalent to six hours in the regular course. About 25 teachers and several students have already signed up for this course. A course in Spanish 2 will be given by Professor Goldiere, and a course in Greek 2 by Dr. Harding. A good many students have already signed up for these courses and a good many more applicants are expected. These four are the only courses which have been arranged for so far. In each course, six hours’ credit will be given toward graduation. Each day's work will be equivalent to a week's work in the regular nine months’ course or to three one-hour classes.

Class baseball opened Tuesday with the Juniors playing the Sophs. The second game comes tomorrow when the Seniors are pitted against the lowly fresh. The game for the championship will be played next week, probably on Tuesday. From pre-season dope, the outcome is highly involved. Try to pick the winner.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

ALHAMBRA
CHARLOTTE
Monday-Tuesday
The Exquisite Sinner
WITH Renne Adoree, Conrad Nagel
COMING SOON
Keeper of the Bees, by Porter
Desert Gold, by Zane Grey
Johnstown Flood, with Geo. O’Brien
Lucky Lady, with Greta Nissen
Crown of Lies, with Pola Negri
Sea Horses, with Jack Holt
My Own Pal, with Tom Mix

Insurance Department.
INSURANCE
We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price
McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13)
Independence Trust Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

1926, B. J. Reynolds Tobacco, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Pick a pipe and pack it with good old P. A.

Talk about “alliteration’s artful aid” — the printer certainly raided the “p” box that trip. But let that go! The advice is just as serious and sound as though it were couched in the careful diction of an English prof. P. A. can’t bite your tongue or parch your throat. The Prince Albert process settled that in P. A.’s freshman year. Get yourself a tidy red tin of Prince Albert today. The first load-up will tell you why pipes are so fashionable among young men today.

PRINCE ALBERT — no other tobacco is like it!

Just get yourself a jimmy-pipe and fill the bowl to the brim with Prince Albert. Light up, and let the first fragrant whiff tell you that no other tobacco is like P. A. — or can be! Cool and sweet and fragrant, P. A. has everything a fellow ever wished for in a smoke. P. A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.