THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1926

Twinkle Little Star

Scintillate, scintillate,
Infinitesimal planetary orb,
Incessantly I interrogate
Your constituent element,
Up above this sphere so high
Similar to an incandescent rhomboid in the sky.

Garrison—“Why don’t they have women engineers?”
Short—“Because they'd stay out too late with fast mails.”

Misogynist Copeland—"I hate all deceitful women.”
Westbrook—“Ah, a woman-hater.”

Speaking of women, they ought to have cleaner minds than men—they change them oftener.

Professor—“I look at the falling snow and just wonder why the little snowflakes dance.”
Fresh Monk—“Couldn’t it be because they’re getting ready for the big snowball?”

The professor was trying to deliver a lecture to a crowd of boisterous students.
“There’s so much noise that I can’t hear myself talk,” he at last ventured to assert.
“Cheer up,” came a voice from the rear, “You ain’t missed much.”

Lady (to tramp)—“Aren’t you the same man I gave some biscuits last week?”
Tramp—“No, ma’am. And what’s more, my doctor says I never will be the same man again.”

Chemistry Prof.—“What's limburger cheese composed of?”
Campbell—“It ain’t composed, it’s decomposed.”

Bradford—“What’s the matter with Ed Douglass’ eye?”
Gilmore—“Well, we went to see ‘The Vanities’ and the fiddler’s elbow struck Ed in the eye.”

Sullivan—“I heard a ghost story the other night and my! it did make me move.”
She—“I wish I knew it.”

Aesop’s Best
Four animals went to the circus—a pig, a duck, a frog, and a skunk.
(Ed's note: They all got in except the skunk. The pig had four quarters, the duck a bill, the frog
a greenback; but the skunk had only a scent.)

(A special sale on cosmetics will be on all this week at the Student’s Store.)

Wells—“What color is best for a bride?”
Dulin—“Well, it’s all a matter of taste. I prefer white ones myself.”

Norwood—“You say your girl insulted you?”
Sparrow—“Yeah, she told me to put my hat on when she heard a woodpecker knocking on the pole across the
street.”

History Prof.—“Tomorrow we will take the life of Abe Lincoln. The class will please come prepared.”

Fritz Littlejohn says that his girl is so fond of arguing she seldom eats anything that agrees with her.

There was a young woman so thin
She looked the same as a pin;
Don't think I would creep
To the keyhole to peep,
I was told by a friend who looked in.

Modern Proverb
All things come to him who orders hash and waits.

Only the Interest
I sent my boy to college
With a pat upon his back,
I spent ten thousand dollars
And got a quarterback.

Branch—“Why do you always carry that towel to dinner with you?”
Jones—“I’m always afraid they'll have soup and I want to save my mustache.”

Prof. (in Geography class)—“Why is dry air not healthy?”
Leo Pritchett—“Because it hasn't any moisture in it.”“Ever kissed you?” She—“I don’t see why they all ask the same question.
Of course you are.”

Speaking of stingy men, how about the Jew that was so stingy he tried to send a night letter during
the last eclipse of the sun.

Drinks In Statesville
We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Candy Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N. C.

Stewart McIntyre—“Am I the first man I, OM completely.”

© 1926, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Everything’s all right

THAT’S the way P. A. talks to you in the bowl of a pipe. This great national gloom-chaser stabs the
darkest clouds with a ray of sunshine. Buy a tidy red tin of Prince Albert today and see. Tamp a
load of this friendly tobacco into your jimmy-pipe and light up. Cool as a sub-cellar. Sweet as the breath of
fresh-cut violets. Fragrant in the tin and fragrant as you smoke it. Never a tongue-bite or a throat-parch. So mild
you can hit it up from sun-up to sun-down, yet with a body that satisfies. There’s more philosophy in a
pipe-load of P. A. than in the average Doctor’s thesis. No matter what brand you are smoking now, you don’t
know how much your jimmy-pipe can mean to you until you pack it with good old Prince Albert. Get started
now.

PRINCE ALBERT — no other tobacco is like it!

P.A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pipe and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top.
And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Smokes
Charlotte, N. C.

The Commercial National Bank
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs. 4% interest paid on Certificate of
Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Government. Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc. over $1,300,000.00.
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

Founded 1874

FELLOWS!
You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

For things electrical necessary to your fraternity home in your efforts to make it more modern.
Stevens Electric Co.

How Much Does the Weight of Your Winter Coat Weigh With You?
Lots of heavy weight coats are actually less worn than those of lighter, more closely woven fabrics---and they’re seldom as
stylish. For chilly days you’ll find one of our topcoats a great comfort with little weight.

The VOGUE
15 E. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Warner’s Broadway Theatre
WHERE QUALITY MEETS
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, Dec. 2, 3, 4
Mary Astor and Lloyd Hughes IN Forever After
Her heart was his goal and the score against him was high!
“Don’t let them break your heart---they’ll break mine, too”
