4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1926

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. --- Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES --- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. G. DINWIDDIE --- Managing Editor
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH --- Assistant Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN --- Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS --- Athletic Editor
ARNETT McMILLAN --- Associate Editor
KENNETH BELL --- Associate Editor
E. BUFORD WEBB --- Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY --- Exchange Editor
M. L. DOUGLASS --- Assistant Business Manager
J. A. McALPIN --- Assistant Business Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY --- Subscription Manager
ALBRIGHT W. SMITH --- Circulation Manager
Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas.
W. S. GORDON
JOHN GWIN
W. H. ALLISON
T. JONES
R. H. McILWAINE
H. M. AUSTIN
J. P. McKNIGHT
C. L. BRAGAW
A. M. SPARROW
W. T. COVINGTON
J. G. WHARTON
W. T. DAVIS
B. WILSON

EDITORIAL

CARS vs. CONCENTRATION

Dean Gauss, eminent official of Princeton University, has started a new movement to eliminate the automobile from college and university life. As a result of his aggressive opposition to the presence of automobiles on the campus, Princeton has outlawed the custom of allowing college students to own and possess cars. This unusual precedent has been followed by hundreds of other American colleges and universities, and the movement started by Dean Gauss has gained such momentum that it has been widely recognized and favored throughout the nation.

Educators throughout the land have hurried to the support of this new movement, and are variously branding the automobile as a “menace to student concentration,” “a devastating agent in the new social upheaval,” and “an evil to be eradicated as quickly as possible.” A few years ago American colleges were free from the problems and evils that have followed the introduction of the “horseless carriage” on the campus. Educators and college officials, as they rejoiced in the progress of the automobile industry, little realized that with its spread there would come an upheaval in social and college life. Today they face a new problem, the only solution to which seems embodied in the movement sponsored by Dean Gauss and his followers.

Davidson College, with its characteristic conservatism, is enjoying a fortunate freedom from this menace. It has always been true that Davidson College abandoned old customs with hesitancy and looked askance at new and unproved innovations. Perhaps this is the underlying cause for Davidson’s slow but consistent progress, perhaps this is the real reason why Davidson has been comparatively immune to many of the contagious campus evils that have seemed prevalent throughout America during the past decade.

For many years, the officials of Davidson College have wisely forbidden the ownership and possession of automobiles by the students of the institution. This prohibition has seemed unjust and unwise in many cases, but in the light of Dean Gauss’ investigation and attack, the wisdom of their prohibition is unquestionable. A word from Dean M. E. Sentelle throws much light on the attitude that has been taken by the Davidson faculty in regard to the possession of cars by local students. “Davidson College,” recollects Dean Sentelle, “has realized from the first that to permit students to own and keep cars on the campus would be detrimental to the very purpose for which students enroll in the college. The automobile as a commercial or time-saving utility has proved beyond doubt its value, but in the possession of a college student it has been seen from the first that it would prove a distraction and a form of dissipation. It would enable students, who should remain at study, to run here and there at random, consequently leading them to fail in their studies, or to miss much of the real college life that exists on the Davidson campus. Many of the healthy influences that are to be gained from campus associations would be lost, and the student, if he was fortunate enough to remain in college, would graduate without having enjoyed any of the finer lessons his college had to offer.”

“This would seem reason enough to prohibit the ownership of cars by our students,” the Dean goes on to remark, “but there still remain other considerations. With the persistent lowering of prices in second-hand automobile establishments, it is safe to predict that any of our students with twenty-five dollars and a desire to do so could purchase for themselves cars, whose usefulness is greatly overshadowed by their unsightliness. To permit our students to keep these unsightly contrivances on the campus would destroy the beauty of the college lawn and convert it into a potential junk-heap. It is not infrequent, especially after holidays, for me to have to call students before me and insist that they remove from the campus and refrain from using objects which they insist on calling “automobiles,” but which more mature minds would quickly term as “the remains of worn-out mechanical contrivances.” The distraction caused by cars and the unsightly appearance of the automobiles generally owned by students have been the two leading factors in our decision to prohibit their possession.”

Parents, educators, and other persons interested in the welfare of American college students are staunchly supporting the movement launched by the Princeton Dean, and given publicity by such leading periodicals as the Liberty Magazine. At Davidson, this opposition to the ownership of cars has been anticipated and fortunately our institution is free from this newly-recognized menace.

THE COLLEGE PRESS

Today there is gathered at Guilford College, as the guests of the Guilfordian, a host of young men and young women connected either in a business or editorial capacity with North Carolina’s leading collegiate publications. It is just another semi-annual convention of the North Carolina Press Association, but unlike a multitude of other conventions, there will undoubtedly be great benefits derived from this intermingling of editors and the open-forum discussions at Guilford.

The college press in North Carolina, as elsewhere in our great land, still faces a crucial test. The idea of colleges issuing publications of their own, especially in the way of daily, weekly, or semi-weekly newspapers is still young, and in spite of the fact that this has been the vogue for some years, college publications are undeniably in their embryo stage. During the next ten years, we venture to prophesy, there will be a revolution in the form, policy and make-up of the average college journal such as present collegiate editors cannot now imagine. Our basis for such a prophecy is the development that has come during the past five years.

College papers are distinctly molders of opinion on the college campus, and mediums of expression for student views. As such, it faces many problems peculiar to this type of journalism alone. College publications cannot be run in the same manner as outside newspapers. Their problems, their needs, their purposes are to a large extent different. As molders of opinion, college editors face a task and a responsibility that is seldom fully appreciated. As a medium of expression for students, college papers are face to face with baffling and disconcerting problems. More freedom of expression, less stringent supervision by the faculty, better co-operation between the publications of the various colleges, sounder methods of financing—all these and a hundred other remedies have been suggested and one by one, they have been discarded or ignored. Yet, there must be some value to each. It is on the shoulders of the little group of editors that are today assembled at Guilford that rests the responsibility of finding some tangible remedies for the evils and problems of the college press. The Davidsonian sends its felicitations to them, and wishes them Godspeed in their serious and important mission.

The Seniors have certainly made up an interesting schedule of events for Commencement, and no student will regret staying over for these final exercises.

From a supply of twelve hundred towels the Physical Education Department at N. C. State has only five hundred left. We suppose that by “mistake or otherwise” these towels found their ways, one by one, into the student laundry. From now on students will be required to furnish their own towels at the gym.

Open Forum

THE FRESHMAN COMPLEX AT DAVIDSON

From various sources on the campus the “freshman situation” at Davidson has been and is being continually deplored. It has been almost three years since the Court of Control regime was instituted. The court has never been more than an experiment, of course, and was tried since it seemed to be the most promising instrument for controlling the new men after the time-honored paddle had been abandoned.

As the Seniors surely remember, a strong element in the student body was violently opposed to the court at its inauguration, and a number almost as large were candidly dubious of the court at that time and voted for it solely because there was a demand for some substitute for hazing. Three years is time enough to give one the right to sanely evaluate an institution such as the court. And a question more or less pertinent in the minds ofEvery Davidson student at this time has the Court of Control plan been a success? We believe that ninety percent of the student body will answer emphatically “No.” The writer would certainly be listed among the nays, and he believes that he bases his attitude on sufficient reasons. But it is only fair before proceeding with these reasons to state that we think the court has always been peculiarly fortunate in its choice of judges; especially this year have the two leaders been able men. And the personnel of the court almost without exception has been composed of men high in the trust of the student body. The trouble has never been largely due to any weakness or deficiency on the part of the members of the court.

Among our strongest arguments against the court are: First, it is unfair to the individual freshmen. Certain freshmen, no more “horsey” than their fellows, are continually sentenced because it has become popular to turn up that particular freshman. And when a man has been up once before the court, his chances for favorable consideration in the future are materially lessened. The following case has come to the writer’s attention, not from the freshman concerned but from other reliable sources. A certain soph, not over-pleasing in personality, at his best, goes into the freshman’s room and dumps the freshman’s bed before his eyes several times. The freshman arranges the bed each time without, however, speaking to the soph at any time. The soph turns him up for not speaking and he gets the cap. Did not the freshman act as civilly as a man could be expected to act under the circumstances? We think he did very well not to “cuss” him out. We think that this case more nearly resembled hazing than “horsing.” And everyone admits that many freshmen most richly deserving a sentence escape because of powerful friends or connections and these friends hate (and rightly so) to place the stigma of a yellow cap upon one in whom they have an interest.

Secondly, much of the punishment is over-harsh. One freshman on a debating team, which takes all of one’s spare time, must get up certain mornings at four-thirty and walk guard with a Springfield rifle on his shoulder until 7:45. This is more than harsh upon a boy of sixteen years who weighs less than one hundred and twenty-five pounds. Such punishment smacks of Prussian discipline or of a school for the reclamation of hardened Cossacks, and not of a school for the promotion of intellectual aspirations. Nor are these forms of punishment unique. We venture to say that 200 members of our freshman class would prefer the severest paddling.

The yellow cap has a certain opprobrium attached to it which often stays with one through college. It has the element of branding one, rather than any ideal of freshman training which is supposed to prompt such a punishment. Again, the policy of making freshmen work on the Athletic Field is preposterous. Such a thing inspires no greater love or loyalty for the school. It arouses a spirit of resentment, rather than resulting in the abolition of the haughtiness and pride which characterizes certain freshmen in college. And all must work alike—both the sheep and the goats. Other defenses are made of this plan, we hear, but all of them are strangely unconvincing. We believe the chief stimulus for working the freshmen is that the Athletic Association gets a vast amount of work for which it puts out no money. It certainly does this whatever the motive. How can we defend such a sham under the pretense of training freshmen?

And now apart from the court (and we have barely touched its faults) we need some logical definition of hazing. We suspend a man for tapping a freshman a few times with a six-inch ruler or one blow with a belt, while every day some freshman walks a mile or two in order to carry laundry. Or we work them two hours on Richardson Field. Gentlemen, among those things there is something which tells us that such policies are contradictory, illogical, and absurd. If physical hardship is any criterion of hazing then both these instances are much worse than any case of hazing for which the six men were suspended last fall. Some one wails: It’s the spirit of the thing. One time it is one of carelessness and in the other it is a deliberate attempt to stop “horsing.” And we will venture to say that the fresh prefer the ruler. As for working on the Athletic Field, that is nothing more nor less than organized hazing of a peculiarly hateful type which is permitted because it is a creature of the court. We have forgotten that we supposedly abolished hazing to protect the freshman and now have changed our method but in reality we haze still. No one ever sanely defined hazing as paddling alone. If it is physical hardship we are seeking to abolish, our one achievement has been to change its form.

Another form of hazing is asking, which really amounts to requiring the freshmen to buy sweaters for the football men. Now we believe as firmly as anyone that the varsity men should have sweaters. But the Athletic Association should buy these. The football men do long and hard work and make sacrifices we all know for the sake of the team; and this same team is the agent which brings in practically the entire profits made by the Association. Certainly then the organization, which profits from the team, should furnish some form of recognition for the team’s services, and not leave this to the freshmen. Many freshmen are really unable to meet this assessment and many others think it fundamentally unfair. Rather than fostering school spirit, as we loudly acclaim our purpose to be, we are arousing a very real hostility—and justly so.

No true patriotism has ever yet been engendered by force. Compulsory cheering is just a poor substitute to make for the failure of the upperclassmen. This is obvious when we remember that these upperclassmen have already gone through this same training and with no encouraging results. What is your substitute, you ask? Frankly, we think the old hazing regime much fairer and more successful than the present system. However, if for no other reason, this is impracticable because the administration is opposed to it. The most promising plan seems to be that in vogue at Carolina. Remove all restrictions. Many freshmen are saner and more loyal than as many upperclassmen and are their equals and in many ways their superiors. Let the fresh caps be retained for purposes of identification. For compulsory attendance at pep meetings an appeal to one’s patriotism in chapel or a series of strong talks under the auspices of the council would have much more permanent beneficial effects. Let us try mental training in a school where the mind is supposed to be the medium for inculcating justice and knowledge into one. And this fact is beyond refutation: When Davidson finally becomes a University our present system will be inevitably discarded because it has no chance in a large institution. (Admittedly these evils are not peculiar to Davidson.) Now, we admit that we may not know all the facts in the case and thereby may have drawn some false conclusions. If so we regret it. But we are certain that there is something radically wrong with our present system and the sooner the spotlight of interrogation is turned on the evil the sooner someone will arrive at a remedy. Of course there is no absolute remedy but there must be some chance for amelioration. We wonder what attitude Amherst, Harvard, or Leland Stanford would assume towards our methods of freshman training? As one who is truly glad to be a Davidson man, the writer is unwilling that we should subscribe to those systems which are abhorred by number one schools, among which Davidson is hoping to eventually achieve a place.

ROLAND B. PARKER

Would Davidson College be justified in offering some inducement to athletes to choose this as their college?

W. C. Penn: Davidson is known all over the state for avoiding this, and as it is, it has as good teams as those that do.

Joe Willard: I think that Davidson should keep athletics clean, for it would mean more to the school.

M. L. Carroll: Giving an athlete his board or tuition would be all right if he needed it, but he should not be given money to come here.

R. G. Wilson: No, I don’t; it would kill the spirit of the school, and would tend to lower the scholastic standing.

W. M. Regen: No, for Davidson has the enviable reputation that she does not play ringers, but that the men come here voluntarily.

J. A. Overton: I think it would be all right to pay their tuition or something like that.

G. McMillan: No, I think it would hurt the Davidson spirit.

R. B. Parker: No, for it is one of the Davidson traditions I would hate to see go.

T. S. Lawson: No, for my sentiments are the same as Parker’s.

J. F. Hollingsworth: No, for this is the underlying reason for Davidson’s reputation.

Ernest Milton: The payment of athletes by colleges inevitably leads to contamination of athletics, a disruption of faith in teams, and an incessant condemnation of the college by outside, disinterested people.