4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. .................... Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES .................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. LINGLE .................... Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN .................... Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS .................... Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB .................... Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY .................... Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN .................... Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY .................... Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN .................... Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON .................... Assignment Editor
P. F. JONES .................... Feature Editor
T. T. JONES .................... Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS .................... Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD .................... Assistant Business Manager
C. R. LAKE .................... Assistant Business Manager
A. A. McALPINE .................... Subscription Manager
V. L. ALBRIGHT .................... Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY .................... Service Manager

Reporters’ Club:
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
A. N. BROWN
R. H. McILWAINE
J. L. ELY
J. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH
A. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD
B. WILSON
J. R. WEAVER
B. F. MCQUEEN

EDITORIAL

All power to the Davidson debaters who last week decisively won from the representatives of George Washington University and V. P. I. in two of the most interesting debates in which our teams have participated in many years. With this victorious start, and the finest debating schedule in many years arranged by our Forensic Council, student interest in the forensic arts should mount high this year.

If only Al. G. Fields, Eddie Primrose, Neil O’Brien and the rest of the famous stars and producers of minstrels in our country during the past decade could drop down to Jaybirdsville Saturday night for the Junior Blackface Stunt, they’d get some valuable tips on how the thing ought to be done. At least that’s what the Juniors are saying.

THANKS TO THE UNKNOWN

There is a thrill of mystery, a flurry of optimistic anticipation, and a sincere feeling of gratitude prevalent on our campus, following the announcement that some “mysterious benefactor” has donated a hundred thousand dollars to Davidson College, to be used in the construction of the New Chambers Building, completion of which has been delayed due to lack of funds with which to carry on the building operations. A few more months and giant scaffolds will rise toward the sky, an actual indication that, at last, the center and northern wings are to be added to the new plant. No longer will the solitary south wing, pitiful in its isolated grandeur, flaunt its challenge to alumni and friends of the college. A kindly benefactor, seemingly modest to an extreme, has answered that challenge, and with the receipt of his donation construction on the remainder of the new building is assured.

College authorities, at the request of the donor, guard closely his name. Information from the administrative offices is meagre—but sufficient to substantiate the rumor that a gift of one hundred thousand dollars has been received, and that in all probability the entire amount will be used in the replacement of Old Chambers Building, destroyed by fire in 1921.

Delayed payments on pledges, made in the campaign to raise funds for the new building, had caused the more pessimistic of us to lose heart. It seemed that work on the new building was destined to drag along over a period of many years, due to the failure of subscribers to meet the conditions of their pledges. Only the faith of our college officials kept us from losing hope entirely. And now their faith has been justified.

Perhaps this latest benefactor of the college is an alumnus of the institution. If so, he has made a big payment on the debt of gratitude that all graduates owe their alma mater. Perhaps, he is only a friend—interested in the work that Davidson is attempting to do. If so, what a wonderful investment he has made.

Somehow the tinge of mystery which veils this most recent gift to the college adds to our enthusiasm and pleasure over this manifestation of generosity and interest. Of course, we are curious enough to find out just who is this generous philanthropist—we'd like to walk up to him collectively and individually and shake his hand, and thank him for enabling our college to go on with a project, the successful completion of which is near and dear to every student.

But, he refuses to permit the authorities to divulge his name. His reasons for this are unquestionably wise. In the absence of knowledge concerning his identity, we strike out boldly in the dark to express our gratitude. Perhaps the God who moved him to make this generous gift will likewise convey our thanks to him.

STRAW-BALLOTING THE BIBLE

Little purpose can be served by the proposed ‘religious poll’ to be taken through the newspapers of the country by the International Advertising for the Federal Council of Churches. The proposal, even though made with the best of intentions, bears too much the appearance of a publicity stunt; it smacks not so much of the Church as of the press-agent. According to its sponsors, the poll is designed to show the extent of religious sentiment in the nation, and thus furnish a basis for a vast advertising campaign to be undertaken later. But its benefits under this heading are at best doubtful, and its flaws are of such a nature as to make the plan seem highly ill-advised.

Newspaper straw-ballots—and essentially that is what the present scheme resolves itself into—have been notoriously futile and inaccurate. They cannot be said to measure, or even reflect, the true sentiment of the communities in which they are taken. Because of their very futility, the number of intelligent persons who participate is relatively small. But there are many surprisingly active minority groups to whom the straw-ballot furnishes a grand opportunity. Through it they attempt to show a tremendous sentiment in favor of their own particular line. While the great majority of citizens remain passively positive in their opinions, aroused to action only by some major moral issue, these busy minorities welcome every straw-ballot with enthusiasm. It is to them that the present stunt will appeal most heartily, and not to the thinking people of the nation, whose opinions are of greatest value. Such a straw-ballot as that intended, instead of determining the status of religion in America, will serve largely as a medium for little bands of atheists and non-believers to magnify their own theories into matters of vast importance.

If the sole aim of the ‘religious poll’ were to stimulate discussion on religious matters, it might be justified. But rather than that, the intention is ‘to find out how many persons in this country believe in God.’ And the results are to be utilized as material for a general campaign of publicity and propaganda. The combination of religion and modern advertising is one that must be effected skillfully if at all. Religion is personal, individualistic. Its spirit comes from within. It cannot be ‘sold’ to the people, as cans of beans or special brands of cigarettes are sold.
—Dearborn Independent.

SAVE A LIFE

As the holiday season draws near, the eyes of the nation are directed toward the attractive displays in the shop windows of the cities while the rural citizens are eagerly scanning the pages of the mail order catalogue. We, as students, are looking forward to the days when we shall be liberated for a short time to enjoy the hospitality of our homes. But in the anticipation...Of our fondest pleasures, we should not lose sight of the sad fact that there are thousands for whom the festive season will give no respite in their grim struggle with the spectre of Death. There will be no armistice for them in their battle with the awful White Plague. It is to these, our fellow citizens, that we should turn our eyes in sympathy. An avenue is provided whereby we may render assistance where it is most truly needed in the purchase of Christmas seals. The national, state, and local tuberculosis associations of the United States co-operate in the distribution of funds to their proper sources and are closely united in this country. It is not only the patriotic duty of every citizen to aid in this noble undertaking by purchasing these stamps, but it is their distinct privilege. Soon, humane effort to stamp the loathed disease out.

Christmas Greetings

Christmas marks the coming into the world of a new force whose beneficence has never ceased; a force so human and compassionate that little children sing of it with joy; and yet a force so Godlike that angels sounded its marching music to this world. The fires that burn on happy hearthstones are its altar-fires; the cherishing of children’s joys its alms; the loyalties of friendship its shining ritual, and its sacraments are Christmas cheer, Christmas charity, Christmas hope.

Members of the Davidsonian Staff take this opportunity to express their sincerest wishes for a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to the Students, Alumni, and Friends of Davidson College. May the true spirit of this joyful season be manifested in you, and may your thoughts dwell on the real significance of the occasion.

Annual Santy Letter

State Champions, North Carolina, Three Days till the 21st

Dearest Santy Clause,

I know it’s a misery to stop over in this here state when the golden spires of South Carolina are almost in sight; but just scribble under your red derby the fact that we still have some of the good old Christmas spirits too. You see the Santy Clause League of Davidson College, which is composed of a handsome pack of angelic little fellows, has elected me order man; me being such a good young chappie and deserving of consideration. For brevity—and also to be short—I itemize a part of the youthful desires as thusly:

Fats Laws — a bed with present dimensions but with steps to, and braces under, the upper deck. I sorta like to sleep high up thataway.

James Pinkney — a one year’s subscription to The Daily Sugar Packet; which same publication is put up daily by Miss Sweet Mamma.

Hermit Alexander — a new camera; the wildcat totally destroyed my old one when I sneaked into the animal’s cage to snap its picture. Also, I would like one of those toys called a Buying Public.

Nick Carter — please, oh please, bring me a case of Millennium Moustache Encourager — that boon for prospective false-faces. If not, you might drop off a couple of Gillettes and a carton of blades.

Rumple Dormitory — we of this histrionic pile would multitudinously crave a universal sprinkling system—one sprinkler to one room. This perhaps might relieve the congested fortnightly shower bath condition.

Well, Santy, these are only a few; but I’m down now to my last two-cent stamp and this inconsiderate post office refuses to take much of a letter for two cents anymore. The enclosed picture, which Charlie Ritch has begged me to send you as evidence of his being almost a big boy this year, weights this packet down a bunch. Notice, Dear Santy, that I have been very unselfish for my own self. Would you maybe leave me one present though? I would so awfully much like a good big green trash can with one removable lid. It would be so nice on the porch of Rumple.

Your admiring little friend,
William T. Covington.

The Nineteenth Annual Christmas Seal Sale will be launched and the students of this institution will be asked to do their part in ensuring the success of this campaign. Several booths will be distributed over the town and the race with Death will have begun anew. Will we buy our quota of these seals? The affirmative reply is dependent upon the action the student body chooses to take in regard to this enterprise. In past years the response of the men has been most gratifying to the state headquarters and has been in accord with the ideals of the institution. The call has come again. Shall we heed it?

To obtain the best results locally, it is necessary that we understand that the seal, which we purchase with our carefully hoarded penny, is merely symbolic of our contribution to worthy charity. If we hesitate to measure the value received in the customary dollars and cents, we should probably remark an economic deficiency. Our donation, slight though it may be, may help to restore some unfortunate child to health, a child who, unable to defend himself, was born into the world inflicted with this terrible malady. Buy Christmas seals and SAVE A LIFE.

—Auburn Plainsman.

Collegiate Chatter

STARE DECISIS

Bobby Jones, simultaneous open golf champion of Great Britain and America, whose achievements on the greens and fairways have won him a place in the popular Hall of Fame, has laid aside the brassie and niblick to enter the Lamar School of Law at Emory University. After a glorious career on the links, and a brief but successful “shot” at the real estate game, Bobby has decided to try his hand at law. And he’s in dead earnest about it, according to the Emory Wheel, which quotes the golden boy of golf as having said: “It’s all a matter of work with me. It takes hard work to attain anything that’s worthwhile, and that’s what I'm out for.” If Bobby’s decision will help to carry over into the legal profession the same ideals of good sportsmanship and fair play on the golf courses of two continents, in the parlance of the lawyers, stare decisis!

Up in Smoke

Students at Howard College must forego their biological interests for a time at least since a fire, doing damage to the extent of $27,000, destroyed their museum and eighty high-powered microscopes.

More Canes

Co-eds in the Law School at Tulane University have joined with the men students and have adopted canes as a senior insignia. The canes are of a standard make and are carried by women and men alike. “Wonder if they will wear derbies too,” inquires the Wesleyan College Watchtower, “Fancy the girls then!”

Burbank’s Proteges

“By the wish of Luther Burbank, who died last spring, Stanford University will continue the plant experimentation begun by the horticultural wizard,” says The New Student. The $1,000,000 necessary for carrying on this work at the Sebastopol farm, north of San Francisco, will be raised by the Sebastopol Chamber of Commerce. Mrs. Burbank has offered the University additional lands from the orchards of the great Burbank, which will constitute a gift of $50,000.

Time to Retire

When the great symphony orchestra of the Howard Theater in Atlanta stepped in the midst of a selection from “Faust” last Saturday night, and broke into the refrain of “Ramblin’ Wreck,” a theater full of Atlantans turned their heads to watch more than a thousand yelling Tech boys march into the theater and down the aisle, clad only in night-shirts and other evening wear. It was a celebration in honor of the Yellow Jackets’ victory over Tulane, and the great crowd of patrons at the Howard fell into the spirit of the affair, and a great pep meeting followed. A dispatch appearing in the South Carolina Gamecock says that many of the boys were garbed in negligee, while some are said to have been wearing little more than their birthday clothes, and a savage coat of red ink. It was a great event for the Tech boys and all Atlanta.