8 8 { THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1926 }

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
19 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. ---------------- Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES ---------------- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. LINGLE ---------------- Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN ---------------- Managing Editor
BYRD CRAWFORD ---------------- Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEIR ---------------- Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY ---------------- Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN ---------------- Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY ---------------- Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN ---------------- Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON ---------------- Assignment Editor
PRES. A. ON ---------------- Feature Editor
TIMMONS ---------------- Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF
F. L. DOUGLASS ---------------- Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD ---------------- Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE ---------------- Assistant Business Manager
J. A. McALPINE ---------------- Subscription Manager
V. L. ALBRIGHT ---------------- Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY ---------------- Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
A. N. BROWN
R. H. McILWAINE
J. L. ELY
J. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH
A. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILL
B. WILSON
J. R. WEAVER
B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

WHO SHALL GO TO COLLEGE?

An unprecedented flood of students, which has caused enrollment in American colleges and universities to increase more than seven-fold during
the first quarter of the present century, is furnishing perplexing problems to those in charge of the administration of our
higher educational institutions.

“Autumn migrations are coming to be as much a part of human as of bird life,” declares Mildred Adams, writing
for the New York Times, “only instead of taking up the southward trail, young humans swarm off to the colleges.
From the University of Maine to that Bryan-inspired college in Florida; from small and dignified Williams to turbulent and unwieldy
California, professors and administrators in the 780 colleges, universities, and professional schools of the country are making ready for what
has been, since the war, termed a ‘flood of students.’”

Statistics show that up to 1917 the increase in college students from year to year was a fairly steady one,
keeping pace with the increase in the country’s population, its growing wealth, and its growing desire for education in general.
To quote Miss Adams: “From 1910 to 1915 some 35,000 more men went to college than had gone during the
previous five years. But, from 1915 to 1920 the increase jumped to 70,000 (a clear doubling), and the wail began
to be heard. Facilities for higher education, it was said, were inadequate; more people wanted to go to college than
could be accommodated; something had to be done.”

The “flood” first became evident when the men and women, who had gone away to France to fight, returned in
1919 to complete their formal courses; and when the state and national subsidies sent a huge group of men to
classes who otherwise might never have known more of a college campus than they saw on their way to a
football game.

At the beginning of September this year, the rush for the colleges became more noticeable than ever before. Wellesley, for
example, was forced to turn away more than 1,200 applicants, and the University of Pennsylvania found it necessary to refuse
admission to more than 2,500 who wished to become first-year men in the college. Dartmouth had more than 2,000 applicants
from which to choose 650 freshmen, and Columbia authorities estimate that three times as many applied for admission there as
they were able to accommodate.

“For a time,” according to our authority, “the big campuses were in a state of chaos. Classes were too huge
to be handled; curricula cracked under the strain; temporary structures, temporary equipment, even temporary professors were requisitioned to take care
of the crowding men and women.”

In their dilemma, the colleges instituted emergency regulations, which they hoped would offer some relief from the great invasion. Intelligence
tests and entrance examinations were both tried, but, as the many students who could pass the examinations and intelligence tests.”
Colleges were forced to delve into other qualifications. Yale began to take into account not only the applicant’s scholastic record,
but character, health, and finances as well. Williams requires a certificate of moral character, and also information concerning the prospective
student’s personality, his capacity as a “mixer,” his industry, energy, reliability, initiative, his interests, and his enthusiasms.

Washington and Lee, according to a recent announcement from Dr. Henry Louis Smith, their president, “is at present exercising unusual
care in selecting as matriculates only those young men who in addition to their intellectual preparations are in their moral
character, personal habits, and energetic industry specially desirable as members of a self-governing student body.”

Other colleges, who have not received as much favorable advertisement as Washington and Lee, are likewise attempting to exercise added
selection in filling their ranks. Harvard, in an effort to stem the tide, has even gone so far as to
restrict the number of students from the “foreign groups” (Jews especially). But this restriction has met with widespread disapproval, and
the Liberty magazine of August 7th points out that such a mode of selection will rob the college of many
of its finest scholars, since four of the seven men chosen at Harvard to receive the scholastic distinction of summa
cum laude at the commencement of 1926 were distinctly of the “foreign group.”

English educational systems are being tried, especially by such of the smaller colleges as Wells College in upper New York
and Pomona College in southern California, both of whom have established duplicate colleges to care for the overflow. Vocational and
professional courses are being substituted for the regular four-year college degree courses in some of the larger state colleges of
the middle west.

All of these new methods of selection are proving of value in solving the perplexing problems of enrollment of American
colleges and universities, but unless some adequate solution of the problem of who shall go to college is soon offered,
it appears that our institutions of higher education must slam their doors in the faces of stampeding matriculates.

A LESSON FROM THE GRIDIRON

A group of students were discussing campus affairs at an honorary fraternity meeting the other night, and the discussion turned
unexpectedly to debating. “It’s time we were doing something to revive this activity,” declared one of the group. A general
chuckle of amusement greeted his remark. But, behind that remark is real thought. It is time Davidson College was reviving
its interest in debating and the other forensic and literary endeavors. Too much emphasis is said to have been placed
on the athletic interests of the college, and this may or may not be true. The point is Davidson needs
to apply some of the lessons she has learned on the gridiron to the reorganization of her literary forces.

There is as much potential literary power in our student body today as there was at any time in the
past, but this potential power is not being utilized either for the benefit of the college or its individual students.
Sound the call for candidates for a debating team, and a half dozen fellows turn out to compete half-heartedly for
a place on the team. And always the same half dozen fellows enter the contests. What is the result? Three
fellows of more or less mediocre ability are usually chosen, and are requested to prepare for the real contest! The
word “requested” is used advisedly in the previous sentence—for their preparation is usually voluntary and too frequently haphazard and indifferent.
The debate is held—and Davidson, once supreme in forensic circles, proves a weak contestant. That is not always the case,
but too often it is true. Attention is here directed to the record of last year—three intercollegiate debates, two disastrous
defeats for Davidson!

Now glimpse at the gridiron. Scores of students turn out every afternoon in an effort to secure one of the
coveted places that only the eleven best men can win. Three coaches work untiringly to build up a formidable athletic
machine. A manager and his corps of assistants render every assistance to the task. A well-balanced schedule has been arranged,
with the contests so scheduled as to allow the proper rest and practice for the members of the team. Everybody
on the jump—no loafing here. How lethal, how stagnant is the picture of debating activities in contrast with that busy
scene. Hardly enough men to make up the needed number of contestants.

Honorary Fraternities---A Defense

An editorial in The Davidsonian last week headed, “Honorary fraternities, formerly symbols of achievement and of service, are in eminent
danger of losing their usefulness!” has caused comment. That comment if not of theKind termed “indignant” does object strongly to
a gross misstatement of facts and falsity of conclusion on the part of the author. Having been so requested by
a number of men cognizant of the real facts in the case, I shall endeavor to point out the more
obvious of these misrepresentations. (Kindly refer to the article in question.) That the honorary fraternities are “in eminent danger of
losing their usefulness” is “a bold indictment.” And indictment in no way proves guilt. I know of no one man
who has been privileged to make a “searching inquiry into the records of the honorary fraternity for the past few
years.” I can say that from intimate knowledge of the activities of a few of the honorary fraternities at Davidson,
not only are they in no danger of losing their usefulness but are constantly increasing it.

Next follows the charge that “Friendships on the campus are becoming the determining factor in the choice of too many
honorary fraternity members.” Passing over the ambiguity of “too many,” I do wish to object to what is implied in
the phrase “determining factor.” It is true and always must be true in organizations of a fraternal nature that there
be real friendship. The especial parts of friendship vary according to the sort of the particular group. Friendship between men
in a literary fraternity is based on the natural compatibility of men of literary taste. The member of a philosophical
group admires in his brother the ability to weigh metaphysical and ethical values. When selecting neophytes to an order, the
members thereof choose men with such friendship in mind. Friendships formed just through the various contacts “on the campus” do
not determine what men shall be bid.

A word further: if a man excels in a certain field of work, he will surely be bid by the
fraternity studying that particular field. Those outstanding are few. As a rule, a man approaching excellence who shows real interest
in the work is taken into the group. His interest plus the members’ estimate of his capacity to enter into
the spirit and method of the fraternity’s field of endeavor is the measure by which he is chosen.

The president of last year’s Honorary Fraternity Council referred to the tendency of friendship to enter too largely into elections
in the honorary groups. He was speaking then to the small group of Council members and only mentioned it in
passing. His lengthy discussion, which was never generally read (naturally enough, nothing of his talk having been published to this
day), did not call the tendency prevailing or dangerous.

As to the charge contained in the remainder of paragraph four of the article: Cause or no cause, the honorary
fraternities are not becoming “filled to capacity with ‘honor-seekers,’ men who once they have been initiated never bother to attend
the meetings or to aid in the furtherance of the ideals of the groups to which they belong.” Granting the
possibility of exception, the editor’s statement would only be true of one of the less-established honor societies. As to that,
I know that one of the newest locals averaged well over 90 percent attendance throughout the year just passed.

So much for the conclusions drawn by one man. Naturally, one man’s viewpoint is necessarily limited. The criticisms I have
made are based on observations made by several men, as well acquainted as anyone with the status of the honorary
fraternities at Davidson College.

Now one statement in the article can be proved greatly exaggerated—a fallacious generality. The editor says, “When friendships determine the
membership of the honorary fraternities, the same men will be seen to compose practically all the honorary groups. Is that
true at Davidson? Look over the list. Do not the same men that compose one honorary fraternity, with few exceptions,
compose the membership of one or more of the other groups?” Having looked over the list, my answer is: “NO.”

Of the 52 men belonging to honorary fraternities included in the Council:
43 belong to only one.
6 belong to two.
2 belong to three.
0 belong to four.
1 belongs to five.

A total of nine men belonging to more than one honor society, over against forty-three belonging to only one.

The honorary fraternities are not above criticism. There are defects in the system. That is not peculiar to Davidson. The
Davidson honorary fraternities are consistently striving for advancement toward their ideals and have been and are of useful, worthy service
to the College. If there is an intellectual life in extra-curricular activities, it exists in the honorary fraternities.

President, Honorary Fraternity Council.
(Signed): H. M. AUSTIN

Collegiate Chatter

The Inquiring Reporter

Co-Ed Conquerors

Co-educational students at Centenary College are commanding the regard and respect of other students through their achievements and influence, according
to a dispatch appearing in the recent Freshman issue of The Conglomerate. Here's a clipping from the item referring to
the young ladies:

“In the realm of achievements, the co-eds of Centenary are ably demonstrating the fact that not the least of their
talents lie in the field of scholarly attainment. Not only do they add a touch of gaiety, of sprightliness and
beauty to the campus life, but past records show that they have set a standard of scholarship of which their
instructors are proud. The girls of Centenary are also coming to the foreground in intercollegiate contests, and the success with
which their efforts have been rewarded entitles them to a position of regard in our college life!”

Latin and Greek

Following the emphasis of a few years ago on practical subjects, the pendulum seems to be swinging in the direction
of cultural studies once more, at least at the Presbyterian College of South Carolina, where more students are pursuing the
studies of Latin and Greek this year than have ever done so before. “Besides the great number of students who
are investigating the functions of ‘amo, amas, amat,’ there is a large group studying the language of Homer and Xenophon,”
declares an editorial writer in the Blue Stocking, who sees in this increasing popularity of the classical languages at his
college, a good indication that the pendulum has started a back-swing.

No coach—only an instructor, who is so pushed for time that he can only aid the debaters at varying intervals.
No well-regulated schedule of contests or of practices. No consistent preparation by the men who compose the team. There is
need of a reformation, which will bring to debating circles the same minute organization and the same detailed supervision that
is building successful athletic teams for the college. Neither the faculty nor the student body are entirely to blame for
the present lack of efficiency in literary activities, but the renewed interest of both will help to bring about a
change of conditions.

Q. How do you think Davidson has shown up in the last three weeks in football, and which school do
you pick for State Championship, judging from the few comparative scores?

Charley Harrison: Mercy me; huh! I think it’s between State and Wake Forest, but if we can stop Carolina, we'll
beat both of them too.

Leighton McCutcheon: I believe that the team is as strong as it was last year, and we'll beat Wake Forest
in spite of the three all-state men they have back with them; and as for Carolina, we can strengthen up
as much as they, between now and the game with them.

Henry T. Powell: We are going to get State Championship, for when Davidson fights, there’s not a school in the
State that can stop them. We haven't the strongest nor heaviest, but we make up for that with the fight.

Augustus Cox: This is the first time I’ve seen Davidson play, but they have made a fine showing, and ought
to have as good a chance of winning as the next team.

Bill Story: The chances for a championship team are the best since 1923, and we'll beat both Carolina and Wake
Forest, our strongest opponents.

Maury Johnson: The coaches predicted a weak line, and a poor team on account of that, but it seems to
me that they were wrong, and our men are strong on the trail of the State Championship.

Ronald Wilson: Chances for a winning team seem to me to be great, but we'll have to work mighty hard,
because there are some pretty stiff games between us and the championship.

“Slavedriver” Kuykendall: Man, we ought to win, for besides having the fastest and fightenest bunch in the South, we have
the best coaches.

Tom Anderson: I haven’t seen the team in action yet, but have been reading the papers regularly during my convalescence.
I think Davidson has an exceptionally good chance at it, and know that many outside the school feel the same
way about it.

“Charley”: Well, Boss, you might put it in the papers now, as well as later, ’cause we have the best
team, the best coaches, and nobody else has got a chance.

Some children are incorrigible. In Alabama, a county school burned the first day.
