8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1926

Guiro or gourd, and pronounced “wi- DAVIDSON MEETS FLYING IC. E.T. C: Has Usual — Williams Talks to the Salteri,
the Raj Sexto, and the Narimba. A history (Continued from page 1) V. M. I.’s line will outweigh that of
the Wildcats by several pounds per man. The Davidson team has been working steadily in preparation for the clash, practicing
many plays which have so far this season been unused, but which will probably be needed in this game. There
has also been much work in breaking up aerial attacks, and the major part of the time has been put
upon strengthening the line. Plenty of substitute line material will be taken on the trip.

The meeting of the training class last Sunday was opened with the singing of two hymns and prayers by Warren
and Cox. Leader Cromartie read the Scripture lesson and afterwards commented that we, in order to gain our greatest success,
must abide in God and He abide in us. Hodgkin and Prichard led in prayer, after which Hodgkin spoke on
“The Essentials of Christian Endeavor.” Among these he enumerated the “worship part” and solemnity of the meetings, appropriateness and variety
of the songs, how to get a new member to begin to take part in the meetings, the preparation of
the speaker, and the necessity of passing what we learn on to somebody else in order to get the full
appreciation of our information. And perhaps the greatest of all which the speaker enumerated is “Prayer,” which is our greatest
unteed power. The talk was very instructive and beneficial to all.

The training class has been using a selection of Rosie entitled “Fifty-Two Varieties.” A Committee was appointed, R. T. Kirkpatrick
being appointed chairman, for the purpose of getting Christian Endeavor literature for Christian educational purposes here on the Davidson campus.
A place has been reserved in the library for these books, affording the “class” the opportunity of using them.

The meeting of the Ministerial Band last Sunday was opened with the singing of two hymns. Tom Hill led the
meeting in prayer after the singing of two hymns. The scripture lesson was taken from the 12th chapter of Romans.
Mr. Williams, former secretary of the Y.M.C.A., spoke to us on the “position of the minister.” He stated that there
are $2,000,000.00 invested in churches today and that there are over 2,000,000 members of the band on the campus. In
deciding to enter the ministry, one should have determination to overcome obstacles, and furthermore, a preacher should sell himself. He
should rid his church of hypocrisy and inter-denominational jealousies and in its stead create a lot of enthusiasm. Mr. Williams
enumerated the assets in the church as being the treasury, ministers, membership, power of prayer, and salvation. The meeting was
concluded with sentence prayers, prior to the Mizpah benediction.

The program of the Philanthropic Society meeting last Thursday, despite its shortness, was one that held the audience in rapt
attention during the whole performance. The Ford Labor Plan was discussed in regular debate, Johnson receiving the decision for the
plan over Morrison opposing it. Both speakers cited instances in which the plan had been tried with various results. The
program was concluded by current events by Ricks.

The program of the Pandemnic Society was given over last Thursday night to the installation of the recently elected officers
for the second term of this year. After a short farewell address by the retiring president, Leighton McCutchen, the new
president, Bufford Webb, took the chair and delivered his inaugural address. The list of the other officers follows, retiring: W.
P. Peacock, vice-president; W. A. Bailey, secretary; Bufford Webb, first critic; Bill Regen, sergeant at arms. Newly elected: B. B.
Arbuckle, vice-president.

Three Sundays ago Dr. Clarke, of Columbia Theological Seminary, spoke to us “heart to heart.” Two Sundays ago the president
appointed the social, music, and reputation committees. Plans have been made for the sending out of more deputations this year
than ever before.

Good taste and good health demand sound teeth and sweet breath. The use of Wrigley’s chewing gum after every meal
takes care of both.has a two-fold plan. E. Hill, secretary, care of this important item of DRINK for this year.
That is, to send more deputations out this year than ever before, and second, to produce a quartet within the
next two or three weeks. Plans were discussed at the meeting of the Freshman Phi Society on last Tuesday night
for the program on the night when the Junior Society will be taken into the senior. It was decided to
meet those who speak Spanish and Spanish students who wish to come up and talk to them. With the exception
of Arturo Mondragon, the baritone in the quartet, the members speak very little English, and they will welcome a conversation
in their native tongue. The audience is also invited to come up and inspect the unique native instruments, six of
which are not generally known in this country.

The regular debate, Resolved, that the United States government should outlaw the Ku Klux Klan, with Holbrooks and Randolf upholding
the affirmative, and Elliott and Pritchett on the negative, received a negative decision from the judges. The argument was centered
around the proving and disproving of the charges that the Ku Klux Klan took the law into their own hands.

Smith won the extemporaneous debate, Resolved that the manufacture of cigarettes should be abolished in the United States, for the
affirmative, over Wells of the negative. Miller's oration on “The Blue and the Grey” was characterized by evidence of much
and careful preparation.

Mr. Robert Gordon, ’23, and wife, now of Gastonia, were the week-end guests of Mrs. Harry Elliott. Misses Sophia and
Jane Leighton Richards, students at Converse College, spent the weekend with their parents Dr. and Mrs. M. Richards. Miss Anna
Howard, of Charlottesville, Va., is visiting Mrs. J. M. McConnell. Miss Mary Lafferty spent the weekend with Dr. Robert Lafferty
in Charlotte. Miss Mary Hamilton, a student at Converse College, spent the weekend with her parents in Davidson. Mesdames Lingle,
Hamilton, and Cumming are representing the Woman’s Auxiliary of the Davidson Presbyterian Church at the Annual Synodical meeting, now being
held at Flora Macdonald College, Red Springs, N. C. Mrs. Winsborough of St. Louis, Mo., who is president of the
Woman’s Auxiliary of the Southern Presbyterian Church, accompanied by Mrs. Turlington and Mrs. White, of Mooresville, spent Saturday in Davidson.
Miss Sara Lingle, instructor of French at Converse College, with Miss Karney, registrar and instructor of mathematics in the same
institution, spent the weekend with the former’s parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle. The As You Like It Club
met with Mrs. Roy Caldwell on Tuesday evening. Mr. Tom Glasgow, of Charlotte, who spoke at the Y. M. C.
A. Vesper service, was a guest in Davidson, Sunday.
