THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1926

Alumni Notes

Mr. John Choate, who spent two years at Davidson and later studied Interior Decorating at Columbia University and in Paris, is now in charge of the department of interior decorating at Ivey's in Charlotte. His services are in great demand by those furnishing new homes in Charlotte and neighboring cities.

James Williamson, '15, is now United States consul at Zurich, Switzerland.

Harry Russell, '23, is teaching in a mission college at Beirut, Syria.

Rev. R. C. Clontz, '21, has been called to Old Hopewell Church in Mecklenburg County.

W. A. Elliott, ‘00, is engaged in the real estate business in Washington, D.C.

Rev. W. H. DuBose, '04, has been called from Bluefield, W. Va., to take charge of the Presbyterian Church in Johnson City, Tenn.

F. A. Drennan, '07, is pastor at Heath Springs, N. C.

Rev. R. D. Dodge, ‘09, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Logan, W. Va.

Robert Garth, ‘10, is finishing his work for a Ph.D. from Columbia University.

Rev. N. N. Fleming, '12, is pastor of the church at Farmville, N. C.

W. T. Bitzer, ‘14, is to have charge of a campaign to increase the endowment of Flora Macdonald College.

Bitzer, ‘18, is with the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company in Winston-Salem, N.C.

Rev. J. E. Flowe, ‘00, of Lewisburg, Va., is superintendent of Home Greenbrier Presbytery.

Voorhees Garth, ‘18, is in business in Hickory, N. C.

Rev. D. M. Frierson, ’90, is professor of mathematics in Arkansas College.

Gettys Guille, '23, is employed with a lumber company in Concord, N.C.

Dr. W. J. Martin is spending the week in Fayetteville, while recovering from a recent tonsillar operation.

Since 1868 The Home of Good Shoes

Going Out? Warm weather---Spring sunshine---are almost here. There’ll be lots of different requirements for new shoes then. See Gilmer-Moore’s new sport stuff for young men.

GILMER-MOORE’S CHARLOTTE

BOYS! For the latest magazines For the best smokes For the most refreshing drinks For toilet articles of the highest quality WALTER CULBRETH Next to Vance Hotel

Davidson Students Had Education Practically Free in Ye Olden Days College Was First Organized as Manual Labor Institution FOUNDED IN 1837 Named for Revolutionary General Who was Killed in Vicinity

That it was once possible for an able-bodied young man to attend a 10 months’ session of school at Davidson College, and receive the best education offered there for $60 a year, is revealed in an article written in January, 1837, three months before school was formally opened. A documentary history was written by Charles I. Coon and appeared in The Southern Citizen on February 18, 1837, and was published also in North Carolina Schools and Colleges, a periodical existing between the years of 1790-1840, from which article is obtained many interesting facts.

No room rent or fuel fee was charged, and the board rent was fixed at $30 a session or $6 a month. This could be cut in half by an able-bodied young man, who by his labor would receive a compensation, or a reduction in his board of $15 a session. The second class would receive a reduction of $12, while the smallest and weakest boys would receive $9 reduction. Price of tuition to the students in languages and sciences was $15 for the session. Price of tuition to those who entered to study English grammar, geography and other branches of an English education was $10 for the session. It was believed that most of the students were supplied with their candles and procured their laundry with very little expense. Many active and benevolent ladies made provision to supply parts of the rooms with bedding and other necessary furniture.

It was determined to call the new school Davidson College, in commemoration of Gen. W. L. Davidson, a brave, generous and intelligent officer, who was killed in 1770 at Cowan's Ford, seven miles from Davidson, while crossing the Catawba River against Cornwallis. It had been determined to commence the exercises of the college on the first day of March, 1837. The year was divided into two sessions of five months each. August and February were vacation months. After due investigation, a farm was selected in the upper part of Mecklenburg County, distinguished for its central and healthy location. 469 acres of land were procured of sufficient fertility, in the estimation of many wise and practical men, to justify the erection of necessary buildings. Agents were immediately appointed and in a few months over $30,000 was subscribed. Three buildings for students, two houses for professors, and a steward’s house, with the necessary outbuildings, were soon completed. A chapel to contain recitation rooms on the first floor and a place of worship on the second, was contracted for, and was finished during the summer.

Currie, '24, has accepted a call to the First Presbyterian Church of Paducah, Ky.

NONE TOO SMALL We Want Your Account R. A. DUNN, President C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

Capital, Surplus, Etc. The Commercial National Bank Charlotte, N. C. NONE TOO LARGE Regardless of Its Size

J. B. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier W. J. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer Over $1,200,000.00

1923-24 VARSITY CAPTAINS Former Captains Now in Business

Two of the three captains of the “big three” sports of the year 1923-24 are now in business while the third is taking post-graduate work in Emory University. Charles M. (Nappy) Davis, captain of basketball, is in business in Winston-Salem and Earl (Bush) Boushee, baseball leader, is engaged in the same work in Wilmington. Elias Sampson (Elias) Faison is studying medicine at Emory University in Atlanta.Three men were outstanding in the athletic history of Davidson College. Both Faison and Davis played on the football team for several years, Nappy returning in the fall of 1924 to lead the Davidson squad to one of its best seasons in many years. Both played end, each guarding that position at Davidson College. In the seasons of 1922 and 1923, they covered the Wildcat flanks together and made a great pair of wingmen. The team that Faison led on the field the year he was a senior and captain was far from the best Davidson has had in recent years, but not on account of the leaders. In the fall of the next year, Coach Younger had time to get his system working, and much greater results were had under Captain Davis. Davis was captain of the basketball team his senior year after playing on that team for three years at guard and center. He is in the real estate business in his home city of Winston-Salem. 

Boushee, after being one of the mainstays on the Davidson pitching staff for a couple of years, was elected captain for his senior year. He led the Davidson nine through a season that was little above the average, save a great victory over the University of North Carolina nine at Gastonia on Easter Monday of that year. 

While in college, these three men were identified with many activities. Boushee was on the class basketball team, a member of Sigma Pi Sigma and the “D” Club. He was a member of Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity. Davis played on both the football and basketball teams and ran a little on the track squad. He was a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity. Faison was vice-president of the student body and the sophomore class, secretary of the athletic association and the freshman class, and president of the junior class. His senior year, he was president of the athletic association. He was a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

W. I. Hall, '20, is superintendent of a knitting mill in Statesville, N.C.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see
FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

Central Cafeteria on the Square

Literary Societies

Pandemic Society
Last Thursday evening at 8:30, the Pandemic Literary Society staged a feed at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. And from all reports, it was a feast, not only of dainties but also of mirth and wit. Forty-five members were present. Harry Shaw acted as toastmaster. During the feed, he called on all the Seniors present for one-minute extemporaneous speeches. Each of the Freshman debaters furnished lots of fun for the occasion with jokes and humorous stories. Towards the end, the meeting assumed a serious trend. Spooty Hillhouse gave a short talk on "What Literary Societies Mean to the Students." Questions for the future good of the society were discussed, and the president closed the meeting, challenging the members to back the society as well as they had the feed.

Philanthropic Society
Because of the small attendance, the regular debate of the Phi Society was omitted, and a general discussion of the query took place. The subject was: Resolved, That the Philippines should be given their independence. Hall argued against it, and Phillips and Knox argued for it. Hodgin made strong speeches. A vote of the house gave the negative side the decision. Very little business was transacted. President Wilifred called attention to the fact that excuses dealing with studying would not be honored. The members are also reminded that the time of meeting has been set at 7:15 instead of 7:30. Next Thursday, the men of the society who are going out for the Declamation contest will try out at the regular meeting. It is hoped that every member will do his utmost to be present and give these men the audience that they deserve.

Many Deputations Will be Sent Soon
Joe McConnell spoke at the Older Boys’ Conference for Gaston County, held in Gastonia the weekend of February 25th. His subject was, “Playing the Game,” and, according to accounts in several newspapers, it was one of the best of the whole conference. Several deputations have been planned for this spring. A. H. Hollingsworth will go to a conference for young people to be held in Rutherfordton near the last of this month. He will be Davidson's only representative at this conference. Seven men will go to a young people's meeting which will be held in Statesville the weekend of April 25th. The Y.M.C.A. is trying to make arrangements to send deputations to Lexington, Monroe, and Concord. It is almost certain that one will go to Lexington; the other two cities are still doubtful. A man is sent to Statesville every Sunday by the Y.M.C.A. to help in one of the young people’s groups there.

Rev. W. L. Walker, ’91, a prominent minister of the Baptist Church, is resting from his work with relatives in Charlotte, N.C.

Visit Our New Fountain
When in Charlotte
Tryon Drug Co.
Agents
Hollingsworth Nunnally Whitman Candies

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
Synonymous with excellent board and good service---at just the right price
“Davidsonians” play five nights a week during dinner hour
“Feeds,” “Smokes” and Banquets given special attention
MANAGERS
E. K. REGEN
E. F. BOHANNON
H. L. SHAW, Jr.