THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1926

Mussolini’s Diet

Italy’s stern dictator has made further rulings for the people he dominates. Acting nine years behind the times, he has
prescribed dark bread for the entire nation. The only use to be made of white wheat flour is in macaroni,
the national dish. The latest measure is in accord with the Premier’s policy of wiping out his country’s war debts
by popular economy. Perhaps he will add a new title to the already ponderous list he has assumed since gaining
power—Dieticianal Director of Italy.

The exact identity of the Davidson-P. C. score of last Saturday and that of four years ago is especially striking.
The late “Popsy” Hunt brought fame and glory to himself and Davidson in 1923 when he booted the pigskin through
the bars from a difficult angle. These two defeats will long be remembered by the Blue Stocking boys.

It is said that the Filipinos wear the tails of their shirts outside. The climate is their excuse. We cannot
recommend the practice to Americans even on hot days.

Beautiful Literary Societies

Philanthropic

An oration on the cancellation of war debts, by Chas. McRae, was the feature of the Philanthropic Society program last
Thursday night. McRae brought out that the economic welfare of the United States, as well as of Europe, demanded the
cancellation of these post-war debts.

The extemporaneous debate, Resolved, That women wouldn't talk so much if the men wouldn't listen, was won by Hall and
Smythe, on the affirmative, over Tucker and Frye, on the negative.

A motion was made that, on account of the present excellent financial condition of the society, the spring term fees
of the Freshmen be reduced by two dollars, but because a quorum was not present, the motion was tabled.

Freshman Philanthropic

The first meeting of the only Freshman society on the hill was held last Thursday night at 9:00 o’clock in
Phi Hall. R. A. Glenn and Fred Phillips were in charge. The Freshmen showed rare literary ability in two extemporaneous
debates.

The first debate, Resolved, That a national board of censors should be established for the movies, was won by Carl
Pritcher, over Gaffney, of the negative.

The second debate, Resolved, That it is better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all,
received a negative decision, with Holbrook on the affirmative and Wells on the negative.

Eumenean

The program of the Eumenean Society on last Thursday night was begun by C. W. Williams, who gave “The Worm,”
by E. A. Poe, with such vividness and feeling that his audience was held in rapt attention throughout the whole
recital.

The debate, Resolved, That the Court of Control is not a suitable means of controlling Freshmen, and should be abolished,
received a negative decision from the decision.

Dr. Pressley Speaks to Students at “Y” Sunday

Chooses Subject of “Life” for Address at Vespers—Special Music

The “Y” vespers service last Sunday was one of unusual interest. The meeting was opened with special music by W.
L. Hodgkin, after which P. J. Garrison led in a spirited and profitable song service. J. G. Hand and C.
F. McRae led in prayer. W. S. Woods read as Scripture reading a portion of the 16th chapter of Luke.

Dr. Pressley took as his subject, “Life, That Greatest of All Experiences and Mysteries.” In following out his subject he
took as a concrete illustration the story of the beggar Lazarus lying at the gate of Dives, the rich man.

“Don't think that I’m decrying wealth,” he declared, “for wealth is given of God to be used for the benefit
of suffering humanity. Jesus Christ Himself never spoke one word smacking of socialism, although He did declare that it was
impossible for a rich man or any other man to be saved if he did not trust in God.”

The rich man, although possessing good health besides his material advantages, died after a time. His funeral was a display
of much pomp and ceremony in which wealth was the potent factor. But his soul, shorn of money's power, passed
on alone to meet the Great Judge, and was condemned to torment, a place that Jesus stressed most emphatically.

The poor beggar, Lazarus, lacking everything that the rich man had, was buffeted about by the world till at length
he died. He was given a pauper’s burial and no one mourned his passing. “But if this earth gives you
a raw deal, try heaven.” Borne by angels to Abraham's bosom, he was comforted.

Town News

Dr. and Mrs. Melton of Dr. and Mrs. W. spent the past week-end.

Mrs. Worth of New York City is visiting with Mrs. L. R. Smith.

Mrs. Easley spent the week with her daughter Mrs. Manning.

Miss Nancy Holt White, who is teaching in Mocksville, spent the weekend with her mother, Mrs. Olin White.

Mrs. Wilson MacConnell has returned home after visiting her relatives in Baltimore.

Mrs. I. D. Bedinger and Mrs. M. B. Robertson, of Atlanta, Ga., are visitors of Mrs. Erwin for the past
few days.

The Davidson Music Club met in the high school auditorium Tuesday evening.

The Book Lovers’ Club met with Mrs. Vowles Friday afternoon. Mrs. Grey and Miss Julia Johnston read interesting articles.

The Senior Christian Endeavor Society held a delightful social in the church parlor Friday night.

The Ladies’ Auxiliary of the Presbyterian Church is planning an interesting Rally Day program for the next meeting.

Friends of Mrs. Bona Potts will beGlad to know that she is improving in the Charlotte Sanatorium, is spending winter.
Endeavor gave PRESS ASSOCIATION WILL MEET (Continued from page 1) taken, such as the choosing of the State's best college
paper. This choice is always made at the spring meeting. At the last meeting of the association, held at Guilford
College, The Technician, of State College, won over Davidson for this honor. One of the most important actions taken at
the last meeting was the choice of a watchcharm, to be presented to the editor and business manager of the
various college publications in the State by the association. Clark were guests of Martin during the should bloom unseen. To
those who will agree to tuck them in, we have a wondrous assortment of shirts to offer, at prices that
are soothing in the extreme. Shirts for Fastidious Men $1.75 to $5.00 MELLON’S CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Leathers and Daniels, on the affirmative, argued that the court did not serve the purpose for which it was established,
and offered hazing as an alternative. But King and Kell, on the negative, argued that since hazing was the only
alternative, it was better to stick to the court. The society was adjourned and a feed was held in the
hall. The initiation of new men has been postponed indefinitely.

Pandemic
The meeting of the Pandemic Society on last Tuesday night was devoted entirely to the election of officers. The results
are: For president, Buford Webb; for vice-president, Howard Arbuckle; for secretary, Tom Hill; for first critic, Harlee Bordeaux; for second
critic, Johnny Falls; for sergeant-at-arms, John Preston. The program for next week is: Oration—J. A. McAlpine. Declamation—Ed Beaver. Current Events—P.
J. Garrison. Debate: Resolved, That the Court of Lance Quality Products Delivered same day made. All dealers LANCE PACKING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Will furnish your home on easy payment plan or make special discount for cash. Nicholson Furniture Company STATESVILLE, N.C.

After Current Events were given by Prier, Pressley urged every Davidson man to find and trust in the right Savior.

Officers Selected by Volunteer Band:
The Volunteer Band had a very interesting and profitable meeting Sunday morning at ten o'clock, the regular hour. The meeting
was opened with a song service and prayer. Following this there was responsive Scripture reading. The President, Jimmy McAlpine, made
some very appropriate remarks concerning the plan for the year and election of officers was then held. The following men
were elected to office: President, Billy Rice. Vice-President, W. K. Forbes. Secretary-Treasurer, Bob Sloop. Corresponding Secretary, John M. Andrew. The
following men will serve as Program Committee: W. K. Forbes, Glen Fry, and Bob Sloop. Billy Rice and Jimmy McAlpine
were appointed as delegates to the Fall Council of the State Volunteer Organization which meets at Greensboro October 9th and
10th. The programs for the year have been arranged so that they will be as attractive and instructive as possible.
We are planning to study the religion of the foreign fields, the history of missions, and the lives of some
of our great missionaries. It is our aim to make the Volunteer Band a fraternity for those who plan to
labor on the foreign field and we cordially invite all those who are interested in missions. With the help of
God and the cooperation of each member, we hope to have the best year ever.

DAVIDSON TO HAVE FIRST "TAP DAY" (Continued from page 1)
Harllee Branch and Don Wharton. Davidson teams, and Nick Sappenfield, president of the student body last fall, are also members.
Control is not a suitable means of controlling. In addition to these, Sook Boggs, captain of two Davidson teams, and
Nick Sappenfield, president of the student body last fall, are also members. Control is not a suitable means of controlling.

Making this last sentence his climax, Dr. Print of the first printing press. Because of unforeseen circumstances, the vote for
the best college annual in the State could not be taken at the spring meeting. This vote will be taken
at the Salem conclave. Quips and Cranks, the Davidson annual, will be one of the chief contenders in the race
for this honor.

DR. MARTIN APPOINTS FACT-FINDING COMMITTEE (Continued from page 1)
The clerical force of the college that is needed has been offered to give any assistance possible. Dr. Martin has
promised to meet with the committee in its first session to go fully into the ideas underlying its appointment and
what is desired to secure as a result of the investigation. Dr. Sentelle, acting as chairman, will call the first
meeting of the committee and put the work under way.

The “Y” is always thinking of you; do you ever think of it? Why make it a one-sided proposition?

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

For things electrical necessary to your fraternity home in your efforts to make it more modern.
Stevens Electric Co.

TAILORED
Freshmen and should be abolished: Affirmative, Cox, Poad; negative, Lapsley, Marsh.

Exhibition
THE CLOTHES, HATS, HABERDASHERY, AND SHOES DEVELOPED BY FINCHLEY FOR COLLEGIAN USAGE FOR FALL WILL BE EXHIBITED BY A REPRESENTATIVE
FROM NEW YORK AT EU HALL Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 11-12 Art Hyde, Representative PARTICULAR INTEREST IS INVITED TO THE
EXTRAORDINARY FABRICS OF FOREIGN SELECTION. PATTERNS CONFINED SOLELY TO THIS ESTABLISHMENT, FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS AND MORE TO MEASURE
