THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1926

WILDCAT BASEBALL TEAM
(Continued from page 2)

Any of the pitchers are also able to take their turn in the outer gardens when not on duty. Davis, Vance, and Woodham are likewise capable of holding down any place there, since all of them made their letters last year. Then Johnson and Edwards, from last year’s fresh team, have also been doing fine work in the outfield.

The team has an extensive schedule before it, arranged by Manager Bill Spencer, and from its beginning today until the final game of the season in the middle of May the team will be meeting tough opponents. A game with Dartmouth has been arranged and during Junior Week, the University of North Carolina will be met in the annual conflict on the diamond between the two institutions.

SORE MUSCLES — Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.

VICKS
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH'S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

NEW HANDY PACK
Fits hand, pocket, and purse
More for your money and the best Peppermint Chewing Sweet for any money
Look for Wrigley’s P. K. Handy Pack on your Dealer’s Counter

Fellows: You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station Davidson, N. C.

SPEAKING OF TACT
She—“Have you ever loved another?”
He—“Of course, dear; do you think I'd practice on a nice girl like you?”

Book Agent—“Have you a Charles Dickens in your home?”
Lady—“No.”
B. A.—“Or a Robert Louis Stevenson?”
Lady—“No!”
B. A.—“Or a Gene Field?”
Lady—“No; we ain't, and what's more don’t run no boarding house here, neither. If you're looking for them fellers, you might try the boarding house across the street.”

“I won't be long in the dark,” said the beefsteak to the seasick negro.

Hardboiled—“Whazzamatta wid dis coffee? Tastes like mud.”
Apronstrings—“Well, it was only ground this morning.”

Prof.—“Do you change your environment very often?”
Fresh—“I shore do; I change every Saturday night.”

Our idea of the prize sap is the guy who fixes the blown-out fuse while visiting his girl’s house.

FOUR KINGS
Small Brother—“Mother said for me to call you.”
Big Bud (sleepily)—“Three aces. What you got?”

She—“He has asked me to the dance.”
Her—“Then I'd say it was an opportunity to be embraced.”
She—“That moon fills me with hunger for something.”
He (hastily)—“Let’s dance!”

She—“I hear your father died of hard drink.”
He—“Yes, a cake of ice fell on his head.”

She—“Stag tonight?”
He—“Yes, I haven’t any doe.”

Visitor—“Is that your daughter playing?”
Father—“Yes.”
Visitor—“She seems to be playing with one hand.”
Father—“Yes, playing with the other.”

“See the stairs here, young man,” stormed the irate father as he descended at one a.m., “do you think you can stay in the parlor with my girl all night?”
“I’ll try, sir,” replied the youth modestly, “but I'm terribly afraid I’ll have to leave about four o'clock.”

Hard-Hearted Hannah
Frank Wilkinson—“May I have the last dance with you?”
Hard-Hearted—“Certainly! You've just had it!”

Some cowboy’s idea of broadcasting is making the girl get out and walk.

Hot—“Do you know the difference between a bathroom and a parlor?”
Dawg—“No.”
Hot—“Then I won't invite you to my house.”

Late to bed
And early to rise
Makes black rings
Under the eyes.

Customer (on Sunday morning)—“Can you change a dime?”
Delilah—“Sure, and I hope you enjoy the sermon.”

“Doesn't she wear becoming dresses?”
“Yeah; becoming shorter and shorter.”

“Why does a college man have so little tire trouble?”
“Because he makes his flat tires walk home.”

“What do you think of a man selling his vote for a kiss?”
“I hope I won't be tempted.”

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

“Young man, why do I find you kissing my daughter?”
“I guess sir, it’s because you wear rubber heels.”

COLLEGE TREASURER
(Continued from page 1)

...cess or failure. The problem for the student is whether he will sacrifice pleasure and ease for hard work and whether he will accept the work of the classroom and of the outside activities as a duty, as his part to play in this “little world.” The tradition of Davidson is to honor the men who accept this challenge.

Every student faces the problem of representing his college before the public. The impression he makes reflects either credit or dishonor on the school. Davidson men have belonged to both classes but tradition says that the majority of the students have created a favorable impression and have been the cause of the growing popularity of...The institution. This tradition is a challenge to the present students and should help them in their conduct and demeanor as they realize that they contribute greatly to the good name of Davidson. "What am I here for?" is a question every student asks himself. The problem of purpose in college and in life must be solved. Why go to college? College is a training school for life and it offers the opportunity for a man to develop those qualities which are essential for success. If one can succeed in college, one can succeed in life. To succeed in either, a man must have a purpose. The Fighting Wildcat Spirit, the most priceless tradition of Davidson, embodies the main essentials for success: the definite goal, the desire and the determination to win, fair play, and the never-say-die courage. The traditions of Davidson, then, can and do help the students to solve these four great problems of student life.

J.P. Williams, Former ‘Y’ Secretary, to Return as Professor of Commerce

Mr. Williams Elected by Trustees to Aid Mr. Jackson in Business Department

J. P. Williams, who was formerly the Y. M. C. A. secretary at Davidson, will return to the college next year as professor of commercial subjects and also to aid in administering the business affairs of the college. Mr. Williams was the “Y” secretary at Davidson last year, preceding A. M. Hillhouse, who now holds that position. While here he was one of the most honored and loved members of the faculty and the students will welcome his return to the campus. He is a graduate of the college, being a member of the class of 1916. While a student here he took a leading part in all of the college activities. He was a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity. During the past year he has been connected with the graduate school of business and commerce of Columbia University in New York. While there he is also making a study of business and commercial methods throughout the country. During the past few years Mr. F. L. Jackson has been the professor of business at Davidson. However, the department has grown and Mr. Jackson's work as treasurer of the college has hardly allowed him time for the professorship. The addition of Mr. Williams to the department will set it on a sound basis. Mr. Williams is business manager of Camp Carolina, which is near Brevard, N. C., during the summer months. Mr. Williams is married and has one son.

Epidemic of Influenza Attacks Many Students

Faculty as Well as Students Ill After Wave of Sickness

The wave of influenza that hit the campus a week ago did not confine its attacks to the students alone, as several members of the faculty were confined to their homes for several days. Dr. Arbuckle was seriously ill for several days, but now is very much improved and expects to return to his classroom in a week or two. Dr. J. M. McConnell has also been out of school for several days, but will be back in a few days. Dr. Martin has gone to Red Springs to recuperate following a week's siege of influenza, but will return to college in the next few days to resume his duties. The past few weeks Davidson has been hit by several cold waves, and the infirmary has been crowded with patients. One of the students developed pneumonia, but improved enough to be sent home, where he is convalescing.

Drugs, Medicines, Toilet Articles. WHITE DRUG COMPANY

RIFLE TEAM SHOOTS

Last week the rifle team shot in the national contest for the William Randolph Hearst trophy. The following scores were made:
- Webb, J. B., 181 out of 200.
- Alexander, A. W., 175 out of 200.
- Brown, E. E., 167 out of 200.
- Short, T. L., 163 out of 200.
- Abernathy, R. S., 153 out of 200.

Total, 839 out of a possible 1,000.

A new theater is being built in the lower part of town.

New York Cafe
BEST EATS IN TOWN
Fresh, Clean, Sanitary
Davidson, N. C.

YOU’LL ALWAYS FIND A GOOD SHOW AT THE VICTORY THEATRE

MOORESVILLE, N.C. WEEKLY PROGRAMME

- Fri. and Sat., March 19-20--- Wild Justice, starring Peter the Great. Also two-reel comedy, Don’t Pinch.
- Mon. and Tues., 22-23---Unholy Three, with Lon Chaney. Pathe News and comedy, Between Meals.
- Wed., Thurs. and Fri., 24, 25, 26---Douglas Fairbanks in Don Q., Son of Zorro, the Marvel of the Screen. Also comedy Show Down.
- Sat., March 27---Rip Snorter, with Dick Hatton. Also two-reel comedy, Below Zero.
- Coming, March 31, April 1---Janice Meredith.

Stationery, Candies, Kodaks, PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY DAVIDSON, N. C.

BASEBALL AND TRACK SEASON IS HERE

We have a full line of athletic supplies. Come down and get yours now.

STUDENT’S STORE

“It’s Yours---Why Not Patronize It.”