THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1926

Mr. R. A. Dunn Will Speak to Students

Another prominent man of the Charlotte business world will conduct “Y” Vespers next Sunday. This time it will be Mr.
R. A. Dunn, president of the Commercial National Bank, which is one of the largest and most powerful banks of
the state. Mr. Dunn is also chairman of the finance division of the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees
of the college. Although not an alumnus of Davidson, he has always been a loyal supporter and an ardent friend
of all the activities concerning this institution. Mr. Dunn has exerted an influence on the young men of Charlotte and
has been in the midst of every activity for the advancement and betterment of Charlotte. He is one of the
big business men who has always put first things first and has had time for those higher things of life.
Mr. Dunn is an elder in the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte.

Attention is called, again, to the student evangelistic services to be conducted by Dr. Ben Lacy, president of Union Theological
Seminary. These services will be held from November 4th through the 7th. Dr. Lacy, a graduate of Davidson, has sold
himself through his wonderful personality and sincere appeal to all men of the college. These meetings are being looked forward
to with keen anticipation by the entire student body.

Mr. Glasgow Speaks at “Y” Vespers Sunday

Noted Charlotte Business Man Brings Message to Students

Mr. Tom Glasgow, a business man of Charlotte, spoke to the students at the “Y” Vesper services last Sunday evening.
Mr. Glasgow, though not a graduate of Davidson, has been one of its most loyal and ready supporters for many
years. Mr. Glasgow built his talk around the verse in the Bible which says: “Ye that have seen me have
seen the Father.” He made it in the form of a direct testimony, which made it even more interesting and
inspiring. The main point stressed in the talk was the fact that the relationship between God and man is the
same relationship of love and tenderness, which exists between a father and his child, with one exception. This exception is
that God's love for man is far greater than, and is not limited by, any of the bounds which limit
finite man’s love for his child. Mr. Glasgow urged that this thought be placed on a personal basis. He urged
the realization be brought about that Christ died on the cross to save each one, and not to think of
Him as dying to save only the heathen in Africa or in China. He also urged that each student get
himself in a frame of mind so as to really believe the things which are taught in the Bible, and
could have a true, solid faith in these things and in God. He issued the warning that it is easy
for a man who professes to be, and is a Christian, to not really believe, down in the depths of
his heart, the things which the Bible teaches. He warned against passing them off in a light, indifferent manner, and
urged that each man really understand and believe them.

Alphonso Smith, Davidson Alumnus, Remembered for Literary Attainments

There are Smiths and Smiths; but a most notable one was graduated from Davidson in 1884. The full name is
Charles Alphonso Smith. At the time of his death in June, 1924, Dr. Smith was head of the Department of
English at the United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. Forty years elapsed between his graduation from Davidson and his death.
He began with an A.B. degree, a regular college alumnus. He finished as one of the best known and most
able authorities on literature in the world. “Who's Who In America” contains a clear sketch of C. Alphonso Smith’s attainments
through a long, active life in the sphere of education and letters. Dr. Smith was born at Greensboro, N. C.,
in May, 1864. After finishing Davidson he taught and studied at Johns Hopkins University, where he received his Ph.D. degree
in 1893. In succession, he was professor of English at Louisiana State University, the University of North Carolina, the University
of Virginia, and finally the United States Naval Academy. At the University of North Carolina, Dr. Smith was also Dean
of the Graduate Department. During all these years he wrote books on literature. Although Professor Smith declined the vacant chair
of English at Davidson College in the spring of 1895, his contributions to the college library testify his interest in
his alma mater. On the second floor of the library is a case bearing this placard: “Books by Davidson Men.”
Two men surpass all the rest in the number of books representing their authorship. These are Woodrow Wilson and Charles
Alphonso Smith. From time to time, as more important works were published, Dr. Smith inscribed a copy in his small,
definite handwriting and sent it to Davidson. In all but one, the inscription reads: “With the compliments of C. Alphonso
Smith.”

Social Life at Vienna, Different From American

Differences Noted in Life of Students of Two Countries

Several members of the Davidson College faculty have attended the University of Vienna, and quite a few hints have been
dropped by them in regard to student life and activities there as compared with student life in our own American
universities. The students who attend the University of Vienna are, as a whole, more settled and mature than our university
students. Thus we find our custom of calling the roll conspicuous by its absence—the students merely rising as the professor
enters the room. This simple custom also eliminates the well-known system of mailing “cut-cards” on Saturday. The material studied is
somewhat more advanced, one being required to do much more outside reading and study, and to concentrate on one line
of work. No regular assignments are made. Lectures given in class by professors are very detailed, and show a thorough
knowledge of the subject. Indeed, the professor is highly educated and is required to be really proficient in his subject.
A German university professor is considered to be a big man of the community, a leader, and is thought of
as such. Social life at the University of Vienna is somewhat similar to the social life in our own universities
and colleges. The students have their various fraternities and much interest is taken in them. A fraternity there is known
as a “Verbindung.” The interest of fraternity men seems to be centered largely around the sport of duelling—it being considered
quite an honor to have a facial scar which was received in a duel. Then, there are the many different
clubs of the university. Here the Germans get together, drink beer and sing their favorite songs. Many of the men
have

SALEM COLLEGE IS HOST

(Continued from page 1)

will go on the part of the Annual, representing the editorial and business staffs respectively. The Davidson publications are represented
in the offices of the Press Association this year, V. S. Broyles, business manager of The Davidsonian, being vice-president. The
other officers are Byron Haworth, president, and Dorothy Siewers, of The Salemite, secretary.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

When in need of first-class printing of any description, see
VERNON S. BROYLES
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.Good voices and excellent harmonies are rendered, and plus a little beer, another thought which Mr. Glasgow stressed
was the duty to our fellowmen. In order to illustrate and impress this idea better upon the men, he used
the following thought: Christians get to heaven, and those souls which are doomed to pass to the lower world pass
by. Perhaps Christ will turn to you or me and ask us if we ever told any of those souls
that we know here on earth about Him. Wouldn't we feel bad when we had to answer, "No," and then
probably we would have to answer, "No," to Him. We owe it to Christ to pass His Gospel on to
others and save Him from the sorrow which must be His when He sees those lost souls going the downward
path.

He warned that it would cost something but gave assurance that the joy which would be derived from it would
more than repay for the troubles. He told of the joy he had found in it and urged that these
thoughts and rules be applied to the life of each one.

Webb—"That wasn’t real Italian spaghetti we had for supper."
McCutcheon—"How do you know it wasn’t?"
Webb—"Because real Italian spaghetti falls off your fork and goes 'wop' on the plate."

S&W Cafeteria
CHARLOTTE
ASHEVILLE
GREENSBORO
RALEIGH

WHOLESALE
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Interscholastic activities are practically unknown among the foreign institutions, and the major sport is dueling. Holidays, which are so scarce
in the American college, seem very frequent at Vienna. The Christmas holidays continue for six weeks, and the Easter holidays
for the same length of time. The students have an abundance of time for recreation and travel. The only degree
offered by the University of Vienna is that of Ph.D., quite a different custom from that which our own colleges
and universities follow.

The Smith collection represents the author's success in the writing of elementary textbooks on grammar, old English grammars, American literary
histories, biographies, and critical or explanatory discussions of authors and their works. There are numerous volumes of selections from the
pens of American and British masters edited by him. Part of this work was written in German and published abroad
during his stay at the University of Berlin as Roosevelt Professor of American History and Instruction in the years 1910-11.
In some instances, Dr. Smith collaborated with American and German scholars in his writings. Periodicals from universities or articles and
bulletins by Dr. Smith round out the collection of his works found in the section of the library devoted to
Davidson men.

Until the death of Joel Chandler Harris, co-editor-in-chief of "The Library of Southern Literature," C. Alphonso Smith's name was listed
on the editorial page as assistant literary editor. After "Uncle Remus'" decease, Dr. Smith was promoted to his place as
editor. Volumes XIV and XVII he edited without the help of his editor-partner. One of these, Volume XIV, has been
presented as an autographed author's copy to the college and appears with the remainder of his works in the special
bookcase.

His "Poe—How to Know Him," and "Repetition and Parallelism in English Verse," are regular reference books on Poe for Dr.
E. F. Shewmake’s course in American Literature. The first named was published in 1921, the last in 1894. The Virginia
Folk-Lore Society was founded in 1913 by Dr. C. Alphonso Smith, at that time Edgar Allan Poe Professor of English
at the University of Virginia. It has won national recognition in the 13 years of its existence. Dr. Smith led
in the collection of old ballads and folk music. The Virginia State Board of Education has recognized the value of
this society and commended it on the excellence of its research.

O. Henry (William Sydney Porter) was born two years before C. Alphonso Smith in the same town—Greensboro, N.C. The famous
short story writer left his native city and set out for Texas while the Davidson student was still in college.
Years later, Dr. Smith published a biography of O. Henry, defending his townsman’s actions in Texas. This biography is accepted
as an authority on the short story master's life.

Possessing a scholarly knowledge of the German language, Dr. Smith assisted Kruger in compiling a short "German Composition Book," and
his "Die Amerikanische Literatur" is a classic interpretation of American literature to the German people. The late Dr. W. W.
Moore delivered a paper in 1912 dealing with "Davidson Men in the World's Work." His conclusion to the section appraising
the alumni engaged in teaching English gives a conservative estimate of C. Alphonso Smith’s greatness. Dr. Moore’s paper reads: "It
is surely a brilliant roster which may be fitly capped with the name of that gifted son of Davidson whose
luminous and inspiring work in this department has won him the most coveted laurels in both the Old World and
the New, Charles Alphonso Smith, 1884, of the University of Virginia."

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N.C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

TIPICA ORCHESTRA GIVES MATINEE FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN

The Tipica Orchestra of Mexico (President Obregon’s official orchestra) has announced through its American representative, R. E. Hines, of El
Paso, Texas, that they will give a special matinee for the benefit of the school children of this vicinity. The
hour for the matinee has been set for 3:30 p.m., on Tuesday, November 2nd, so that the children of the
nearby towns can get here in time for the performance. A special price for the children of 75 cents for
reserved seats and 50 cents for general admission is offered, this being less than half price for adults. Teachers will
be admitted to reserved seats for $1.10, and they must bring their certificates or a statement from their supervisor that
they are bona fide teachers.

The children of Mecklenburg are cordially invited to attend this performance, which is in every way identical with the one
for the evening. After the performance, all Spanish students are invited to the stage to meet the members of the
orchestra. Owing to the fact that the auditorium will only hold 1,800 people, the children are urged to get their
tickets in advance so that out-of-town children will not come and be turned away. The tickets will be available at
Parker-Gardner Company.

Causey—"May I print a kiss on your lips?"
Girl—"No, Jack, you aren't my type."

Glad to serve you every day and Sunday, too.
SANITARY CAFE
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

Where Good Fellows Get Together
BUCK’S CORNER
Sodas, Fruits, Candies, Toasted Sandwiches
Snappy Curb Service
Brand New Place in Center of Mooresville

Every minute $1,104 worth of property is consumed by fire and every day 42 persons are burned to death with
46 injured. Be careful and help stop this awful waste.

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr.
Insurance Department
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
