THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 14, 1926

PLANS BEING MADE
(Continued from page 1)

On this night each of the classes will give a stunt, and the Glee Club and Dramatic Club will also provide some entertainment. The Dramatic Club will present several short plays, and a general good time will be had by all. For the last few years Home-coming Day has been one of the biggest days of the year, and the program this year promises to be even better and more interesting than in previous years. The students are given a holiday, and this year the big football encounter will add to the other features of the day. The day will be enjoyed not only by the students, however, but by the faculty members and visitors as well.

F. C. WITHERS WILL EDIT
(Continued from page 1)

Other members of these committees will be appointed at once and work on the program and other arrangements will commence. The Junior class is facing the serious problem of finding a way to raise money to help defray the expenses of the carnival. No definite plan has been presented or ratified as yet but there has been some discussion of bringing glee clubs and musical organizations from other schools to the Davidson campus as other organizations have done in past years.

Students Take Part at Vesper Services Sunday
Bill Covington and Ronald Wilson Are Student Speakers

The fifth, and one of the best “Y” services of the year was conducted by the students under the leadership of Bill Christian, last Sunday night. The program was arranged to permit a greater participation of those present. Special mimeographed programs had been prepared and were handed to each student. These programs included quotations from Kipling and Beeching. Special music including a violin solo by James Gray and a vocal solo by Jim Caligan was enjoyed.

The speakers were Ronald Wilson and Bill Covington, who both enjoy a well-deserved popularity on the hill, and are marked for their Christian characters and qualities of leadership. Both speakers thrilled their hearers with messages challenging every man to prepare himself to work and to serve Christ.

Twenty Men Report For Cross Country Tryouts
Letters to be Awarded Men This Year

As the school year is moving on, the “Y” officials are watching with great interest the different bureaus and they give us the happy report that everything is moving steadily on, according to the schedule made out at the first of the year, and especially gratifying is the fact that more interest is being evinced in “Y” activities this year than ever before. So everything seems to be prepared for a most successful year in all lines of religious activity.

The candidates for the Davidson cross-country team have already donned their track outfits and are working out on the cinder path at Davidson College. Approximately 20 men are in the number, from which seven will be chosen to represent the school. A new feature of this sport is the awarding of letters this year, the Athletic Association stating that it would give five monograms.

This Sunday the student body will have the privilege of hearing Rev. Edgar Wood of Salisbury, about whom a short sketch was given last week. This is a rare treat indeed and everyone should by all means make it a point to hear this speaker. Let’s go to the “Y” Vespers!

The new “Y” room is finished, so far as regards the interior decorating, and a pending meet is between Davidson and Wofford for November 12th, at Spartanburg, S.C.

Professional Notices
Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 653
DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
And Building. Court Street Entrance
Com- seth ona est National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays 12 to 1.

CHIROPRACTOR
DR. LEE E. KISER
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Phones 169 and 706

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
811, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-3

Comparatively few get to go, yet those of us who do go are sent at the expense of someone’s sacrifice. The outstanding events of all history are events which demanded great sacrifice. We're here. We have a life to live. Our place is just before us. What do you have to do? You and I have a trust to keep. The world is full of challenging opportunities; wherefore, as Christian men, we should first ask, “What can I do for the Master? What would Christ do?” I hold up to you the Star of life—Christ. He is the Gleam. He is the Gleam to follow. Go out and live for him.

Closing the program, Bill Covington spoke on the subject, “Work and Service.” He called attention to the fact that the words “Work and Service” were largely used. Work often carries the idea of drudgery; service often regarded as artificial goodness. Work is a means to a well-adjusted life. Men and women who do not work lack something in life. Loafers are not in the scheme of things; they are in the world, but not helping it along. The curse of drunkenness, idleness, and doping may be modified by working.

Closely allied to work is service. Zest is added to work when it is service. Carlyle has said, “perform the duty which is nearest. By so doing the second duty will be nearer.” Among Christ’s words we find many demanding service.

FELLOWS!
LAD to serve you every day and Sunday, too.
SANITARY CAFE
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.Addition of this 59th-Duke gridiron battle will be staged; "How are we going to live to pay back?" New room, the students will be greatly benefitted and that it will also relieve the congestion in the recreation room. 

On Sunday, October 24th, the “Y” is going to bring another fine man for the Vesper service. Mr. Tom Glasgow of Charlotte will be the speaker. Mr. Glasgow is a prominent business man, handling all sorts of automobile accessories, and is also an elder of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. He is an excellent speaker and has been here before, each time adding to his popularity. His message will be of a rather practical nature and one that is to be greatly looked forward to. Mr. Glasgow is one of the many wonderful men the “Y” is going to bring to Davidson this year and the bureau on speakers, which is under the charge of C. G. Davis, feels very fortunate in having secured a man of this type.

Did you ever realize that the “indispensable Book” is really one of the easiest books in the world to locate? It is within the reach of every man and yet—are we not neglecting this most valuable of possessions?

A Hi-Y Club is being organized in Cornelius. This work is under the supervision of Harry Goodykoontz and is a most important phase of “Y” work.

He commands us to bear witness of Him. Davidson offers many opportunities to advise, encourage, and befriend. Let us, then, learn the value and scope of service, for when we try to serve we touch something divine.

PAST RECORDS
1901—Davidson 6, State 27.
1902—Davidson 5, State 0.
1905—Record unavailable.
1907—Davidson 0, State 6.
1908—Davidson 0, State 21.
1912—Record unavailable.
1913—Record unavailable.
1916—Davidson 0, State 0.
1917—Davidson 3, State 7.
1919—Davidson 6, State 36.
1920—Davidson 0, State 23.
1921—Davidson 3, State 3.
1922—Davidson 0, State 15.
1923—Davidson 6, State 12.
1924—Davidson 10, State 10.
1925—Davidson 9, State 3.

Wildcat Cafe
THE BEST PLACE AND FOOD
GIVE US A TRIAL.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.

Here’s a real treat in store! Dr. Ben Lacy is going to begin a series of meetings here on November 7th. This very popular minister will have charge of the regular fall meeting of the “Y.”

Services are conducted every Sunday afternoon out at the convict camp. This is indeed a great work, for by the influence of meetings such as these, some poor soul may be brought to join the army of Christ.

Prayer—what really composes prayer? This is the answer that a Church paper sends out: “True prayer is only another name for the love of God. The true prayer is that of the heart and the heart prays only for what it desires. To pray, then, is to desire—but to desire what God would have us desire.” Can we not let this most powerful factor of life enter more into our daily routine? Much of peace and comfort of heart awaits him who enters into this close fellowship with his Creator. So let us strive to be worthy of this soul-communion and by its guiding hand become better Christians in every way.

Davidson won three. State won eight. Four have been ties. Records of three are unavailable. Total points: Davidson 65, State 160.
1899—Davidson 0, State 0.
1900—Davidson 17, State 0.

Only three cases of yellow fever—once the scourge of the continent—were reported in all North and South America during 1925, according to the Rockefeller Foundation.

Ronald Wilson, speaking on the subject, “Follow the Gleam,” gave a most interesting and inspiring address. Wilson

Davidson, so far, has a very successful record in debating. Having met teams from Pennsylvania to Alabama, at least two-thirds of the debates have ended in victories. This year, however, more prominent colleges are on the schedule, more money is available for necessary expenses, and the outlook is very encouraging.

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see

TENTATIVE SCHEDULE (Continued from page 1)
nior; C. W. Williams, T. G. McCutcheon, Harllee Branch, and Don Wharton, Seniors. Powell debated against the University of Pittsburgh; Williams against V. P. I. and Emory; McCutcheon against P. C.; Branch against Sewanee, and Wharton against Wake Forest and Sewanee. There are a number of Sophomores who debated against Carolina on the Freshman team last year. As Freshmen they defeated Carolina in both debates, and will be a valuable asset to the teams. There will be several Freshman debates, which will no doubt create quite a bit of interest. A contract has been signed with Carolina for two debates in the spring, and others are being arranged. All indications are that the Freshman teams will be as successful this year as last.

VERNON S. BROYLES
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men

MAYHEW’S MARKET opens in Davidson Friday morning on Depot Street. We are prepared to serve you with the very choicest meats. We buy VEAL—BEEF—PORK at the highest market prices.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
“WHERE YOU SEE THE BIG ONES”
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, 18th, 19th
Constance Talmadge in “Duchess of Buffalo”
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, 20th, 21st
Adolphe Menjou in “Ace of Cads”
FRIDAY, 22nd
“You Never Know Women”
SATURDAY, 23rd
Jack Holt in “Born to the West”