THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 14, 1926

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Caldwell Withers

Nisbet Runs Wild | State Game Headliner
Freshmen Open Saturday
Class Basketball Begins | Many Up-Sets Saturday

The smashing, hard-driving game played by Mutt Nisbet against Guilford last Saturday was one of the few bright spots of
the slow contest. The Charlotte boy, starting a game for the first time this season, almost single-handedly carried the oval
in a 70-yard march in the first period that resulted in a touchdown. He was on the receiving end of
Sappenfield’s 12-yard toss for Davidson’s first score. Dick Grey hung up a mark for other backs to shoot at when
he scored three points against Guilford although he was in the game just about five seconds. Grey, along with Ritchie,
McColgan, Boggs, and others, was held in reserve for the State clash today.

Although the Wildcats enter the Wolfpack lair today as slight favorites, they are not expecting an easy game. State lost
to the Tigers of Clemson Saturday 7 to 3, but Clemson's superiority was shown only in the final count as
the Techmen played a clear, head-up game from start to finish.

Two games have been played in the class basketball series. In the opening fracas, the Seniors played brilliant ball in
the first half to down the Sophomores by a 22-8 score. Friday night, with many men playing who helped win
last year's championship, and led by the deadly Calhoun, the Juniors swamped the Freshmen 31 to 15. Captain Calhoun played
jam-up ball throughout and should land a place on the varsity squad this winter.

Coach Monk Mattox’s Wildkittens get started Saturday when Coach Norman and his Furman Freshmen blow into town. For the last
several years, the little Hurricane has found the Davidson Yearlings easy going, but it seems that the tide has turned.
The men of ’30 have a much better team than the present Sophomores turned out and the Furman Breeze was
unexpectedly defeated this fall by a strong Erskine fresh team. There are no scores by which we may judge, but
the affair should be nip-and-tuck with slight favor to Monk’s team.

The Seniors opened with a whirlwind attack in the first half with Calhoun dropping some nice long shots while Hudgins
was shooting snowbirds galore and the score began running up with the Sophomores trying to get their defense together. As
the half progressed, the Seniors allowed their offense to retard and the Sophs could not get their eye on the
basket. The Sophs came back with their defense in the last part of the half, holding the opponents down and
scrimmage was the main show. In the second half, the Sophs played a jam-up defensive game and held the big
guns of the Seniors at bay and little scoring was done in this half, neither team working much offense. The
remainder of the game was an inconspicuous grind up and down the floor, the spectators getting no thrills. It was
a game such as could be expected with neither team in training. Hunt and Sturdevant were the mainstays of the
Sophomore team, while Hudgins and Wharton played great games for the Seniors.

Seniors. Pos. Sophomores.
Vaughan (4) R. F. Gilmore (1)
Calhoun (9) L. F. Murray (2)
Hudgins (6) C. Hunt (5)
Womack R. G. Hancock
Wharton (7) S. Sturdevant

Substitutions—Seniors: Clark and Sullivan. Sophs: Wallace, Brown, and Kirkland. Referee: Mattox.

Davidson's opponent for the last weekend of this month, V. M. I., was defeated rather unexpectedly by Roanoke Saturday. The
Virginia cadets have had rough going all season, but sport writers declare that they are due for a reversal of
form before the season is out. Let us hope that this “revival” does not come in the Davidson game. Duke,
who opposes the Wildcats in the closing game of the season on Thanksgiving, romped away with Elon by a larger
score than the Wildcats amassed. This game promises to be harder than was expected.

The startling recovery of North Carolina of her old football form brought disaster to the South Carolina Gamecocks. The Gamecocks
entered the game as favorites for the first time in years, but their high-stepping backfield failed to function properly and
the 70-yard sprint of Young spelled their doom. Although Furman’s win over Wake Forest was not surprising, the margin of
difference was larger than had been expected in most quarters. Rawl, Pipkins, and Schneider played great ball and overshadowed the
magnificent work of Wake Forest’s stellar end, Riley. “Old Harvard” was forced to again suffer defeat, while Princeton was lucky
to get a 7 to 7 tie with Washington and Lee.

The somewhat hazy argument between Davidson and P. C. over the report that the South Carolina Presbyterians had been dropped
from Davidson’s 1927 schedule has apparently subsided. According to press dispatches, Dr. Martin said he knew nothing of the matter
and Coach Younger stated that whatever had been said at Rock Hill was absolutely unofficial. Just what conclusion will be
reached is in the hands of the athletic authorities of the two schools and no announcement has been made.

Prospects for a good golf team this fall are exceedingly bright. Although only one man from last year’s aggregation is
back in school, several Freshmen have shown themselves to be promising material and also a wealth of material, dropping if
most of last year who are likely to land berths.

A fast affair was seen when the Juniors hooked up with the Freshmen, although the lowly tribe lost by a
31-17 score. The game was fast throughout and the Freshmen uncovered their points from a distance with great accuracy. The
fast Junior team jumped to the lead at the beginning of the game and Calhoun proved too much for the
Freshmen as he went through them making his short shots with uncanny regularity and the smaller opponents could not get
him covered. The Freshmen were weak on the defense and could not sufficiently penetrate the Junior defense and had to
resort to long shots for the majority of their points. They brought out a small but exceedingly fast team which
should give the upper-classmen trouble when they get into better shape. Mauzy, Pritchett, and McGavock showed up best for the
Fresh. Calhoun and Hall were the chief scorers of the Junior team, while MacAulay played a good defensive game.

Juniors. Pos. Fresh.
Kilglet (11) R. F. Pritchett (5)
Withers (2) L. F. McGavock (4)
Calhoun (21) C. Baker (2)
Hall (4) R. G. Mauzy (6)
MacAulay (3) L. G. Brown

Substitutions—Juniors: Shaw, Penn, Smith, Taylor, and Osheik. Freshmen: Smith, Moore, Wilkins. Referee: Wilson.

Comparative scores mean so little, but still, Davidson beat Elon 26 to 0 while State proved too much for the
Freshmen as he

NISBET PLAYS WELL
White and Beatty Star for Visitors
Bohannon, Kell, and Arrowood Davidson Luminaries

In the second home game of the season, the Wildcats had no great difficulty in trouncing the Guilford Quakers Saturday
afternoon by a 23-0 score. The locals started the game with a rush, scoring two touchdowns early in the first
quarter and after this, the struggle slowed up perceptibly.

The game was not as one-sided as the score indicates, Guilford presenting a strong offense led by White and Beatty,
and they succeeded in piling up seven first downs, all coming in the second and fourth quarters. Although they made
several marches down the field, they never succeeded in passing the Wildcats’ twenty-yard strip.

The line-plunging of Mutt Nisbet, a Charlotte boy, was the outstanding individual feature of the afternoon. Time after time, Nisbet
rammed the Quaker line for substantial gains, placing the Wildcats in scoring position and scoring the first touchdown of the
game himself on a pass from Sappenfield. Bohannon, a veteran end, playing his first game as a tackle, acquitted himself
well in his new position.

Davidson scored the first touchdown soon in the first quarter, launching a long drive down the field with Nisbet bearing
the brunt of the attack. He scored the touchdown on a 12-yard pass from Sappenfield. Soon after, Charley Harrison took
a long pass and raced 30 yards for a touchdown.This was one of the prettiest plays of the afternoon. In
the second quarter Dick Grey booted his customary drop-kick and the half ended with the Wildcats holding a 15-0 lead.
A safety in the third period and Sam Black’s touchdown in the final quarter after a drive from mid-field, completed
the scoring for the day. In the second and fourth quarters Guilford took the offensive and made several first downs
by completing three passes and gains by White and Beatty, but the Wildcat line stiffened when the goal was neared.
Several of the varsity players were withheld from the game by Coach Monk on account of minor injuries, but are
expected to be in shape for the State game today.

The summary:
Guilford Position Davidson
Ratnish L.E. Pinkney
Hendley L.T. Bohannon
Wiggins L.G. Mitchell
Turner Center Smith
Rhodes R.G. J. Grey
McLeod R.T. Maulden
Marshall R.E. Arrowood
Beatty Q.B. Sappenfield
White L.H. Keel
Robertson R.H. Harrison
Nes R.F.B. Nisbet

Score by quarters:
Guilford 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson 12 3 2 6—23

Officials: Referee: Izzard (Washington and Lee); Umpire: Brice (Auburn); Head linesman: Harrell (Carolina).

Subs—Guilford: Kimrey, Moon, Layton, Rabb, Cox, Trixett, Finch, Moore. Davidson: Leggette, McGeachey, Christian, Black, Carter, Grey, Wells, Green, James, Kerr,
Baker, Laws, Davis, Wilson, McEachern, Wearn, and Allen.

Scoring touchdowns: Nisbet, Harrison, Black; dropkick: Dick Grey, and safety. First downs: Guilford 7, Davidson 14; ground gained on passes:
Guilford 25 yards, completing 3 out of 8 attempts; Davidson 63 yards, completing 3 out of 8 attempts; penalties: Guilford
5 yards; Davidson 60 yards.

Andrew Jackson was the only American President ever to figure as a duelist. Abraham Lincoln was once challenged by a
young politician and chose as weapons “cavalry broadswords of the largest size,” but the affair was called off.

The Davidson Wildkittens will stage their initial contest against the “Purple Breeze” from Furman on next Saturday, the 16th of
October. The game will be called promptly at 3:00 o'clock, on Richardson Field. The Wildkittens have much to avenge themselves
of, since last year the game ended with a 42 to 0 victory in favor of the Furman Freshmen. The
one-sided contest last year spelled defeat for the Davidson men, but the teams this year will be more evenly matched,
with a fair chance of victory for the Wildkittens.

The Wildkittens boast a line which bids fair to refute all opposition. From tackle to tackle it weighs in the
neighborhood of 175 pounds, which is a great improvement over last year. With the line of such phenomenal weight together
with their fast, hard-driving backfield, the Wildcat Cubs should make a creditable showing next Saturday afternoon. It should not be
overlooked that Furman have in Case, their half-back, an all-Southern man. The “Purple Breeze” has played one game, while the
Wildkittens will be taking the field for their first college football game. The Erskine College Freshmen defeated the team from
Furman in a hot contest by a close score. The Wildkittens have the prospects of one of the best teams
in years. On the squad are men who came to Davidson with a reputation of being star prep school players.
The squad has been practicing since the opening of school and is in good shape for the game Saturday. They
have furnished opposition for the varsity on several occasions and so impressed Coach Monk Younger that he said he believed
they were stronger on the defense than Guilford or Elon.

The probable line-up is:
Left End: Hampton
Left Tackle: Carson
Left Guard: Hunt
Center: DeArmon
Right Guard: DeCamp or Gavin
Right Tackle: McConnell
Right End: Mills or Dobbins
Quarterback: Hammet
Right Half: Goodman
Left Half: Matthews or Christian
Fullback: Brohard or King

The nerve centers which react to music are in the feet, according to the Swiss scientist, Hoepli. This explains, he
says, why we tap time to music with our feet.

V. M. I. GAME AT LYNCHBURG
The Davidson-V. M. I. football game scheduled for October 30, on V. M. I.’s campus, at Lexington, Virginia, has been
changed and will be played at Lynchburg. V. M. I. officials asked for a change and it was granted by
Davidson. At Lynchburg the game will draw a larger crowd and better gate receipts.

Spurlock Sets Pace in Scoring Among Players
Lenoir-Rhyne Back Tops Collegiate Scoring With 30-Point Totals

Although he failed to figure in the scoring of any of his team’s three touchdowns against Milligan College Saturday, Spurlock,
stellar Lenoir-Rhyne back, continues to show the way to gridders of the state’s colleges with a total of 30 points,
represented by five touchdowns. Cathey, Duke star, Saturday added a pair of touchdowns to his total and now trails Spurlock
by but five points by virtue of his quartet of touchdowns and one extra point. Bill Riley, Wake Forest end,
rounds out the contingent above the 20 mark, the fleet-footed wingman having credit for four touchdowns, all the result of
passes from Beckley or James. Leggette, of Davidson, also was among the non-scoring element Saturday and his total remains at
18. Cox, Lenoir-Rhyne, leads extra-point scorers with seven “singles,” and ranks fifth in scoring with a total of 13, which
also includes a touchdown and one field goal.

Grey Boasts Good Toe
Dick Grey, Wildcat back, leads the pack with goals from the field, having sent three successful efforts through the uprights.
This, with one safety and an extra point, gives Grey a total of one dozen points and puts him among
the seven players knotted for sixth place.

Dick Gurley’s Lenoir-Rhyne “Mountain Bears” boast the only uncrossed goal line in state collegiate circles. The Lutherans also lay claim
to the highest scoring machine, with a total of 90 points in three games. The Davidson Wildcats top the “Big
Five” with a total of 76 points in four games and also show a good defense with but one touchdown
scored against them in three contests. Duke ranks next in scoring with 71 points, and the Blue Devils have had
but one touchdown and a safety counted against them.

The individual scoring figures, showing touchdowns, extra points, and field goals, follow:
Spurlock, L-R: 5 touchdowns, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 30 total points
Cathey, Duke: 4 touchdowns, 1 extra point, 0 field goals, 25 total points
Riley, W-F: 4 touchdowns, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 24 total points
Leggette, Dav: 3 touchdowns, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 18 total points
Cox, L-R: 1 touchdown, 7 extra points, 1 field goal, 16 total points
D. Grey, Dav: 0 touchdowns, 1 extra point, 3 field goals, 12 total points
Wells, Dav: 2 touchdowns, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 12 total points
Black, Dav: 2 touchdowns, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 12 total points
Grigg, Duke: 2 touchdowns, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 12 total points
Adams, Duke: 2 touchdowns, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 12 total points
Ober, W-F: 2 touchdowns, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 12 total points
Paseur, L-R: 2 touchdowns, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 12 total points
Nisbet, Dav: 1 touchdown, 1 extra point, 0 field goals, 7 total points
Young, Car: 1 touchdown, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 6 total points
Outen, State: 1 touchdown, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 6 total points
Bolich, Duke: 1 touchdown, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 6 total points
Bruton, Duke: 1 touchdown, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 6 total points
Frank, Duke: 1 touchdown, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 6 total points
McConnell, Dav: 1 touchdown, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 6 total points
Harrison, Dav: 1 touchdown, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 6 total points
Owle, L-R: 1 touchdown, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 6 total points
Goulter, L-R: 1 touchdown, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 6 total points
Whisenhunt, L-R: 1 touchdown, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 6 total points
Rhodes, L-R: 1 touchdown, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 6 total points
Hodges, L-R: 1 touchdown, 0 extra points, 0 field goals, 6 total points
McDowell, State: 0 touchdowns, 1 extra point, 1 field goal, 4 total points
Ridenhour, State: 0 touchdowns, 0 extra points, 1 field goal, 3 total points

Others who have scored only extra points, and the number of points scored, follow: James, W-F, 3; Bohannon, Dav, 2;
Bennett, Duke, 4; Allen, Dav, 1; Rackley, W-F, 1; Hodge, L-R, 2.

*Total includes one safety.

Please come in and examine our fine line of Stationery. Geo. C. Goodman & Co. Mooresville, N. C.

Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia

Introducing to the readers of the Davidsonian
REV. BENJAMIN R. LACY, Jr., D. D.
D.D. of Davidson, 1919
B. of Davidson, 1906
