Vol. XIV FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 21, 1926

Davidson Will Meet Deacons of Wake Forest in State Title Game Saturday
Contest to be Played on Charlotte Field

PEP MEETING FRIDAY
Both Teams Need Victory to Assure Future Claims for State Championship

Football fans all over the state will center their interest Saturday in Charlotte where the Wildcats meet Wake Forest in a game which will have a great deal to do with determining the state champions for 1926. The game will be played on Wearn Field at 3:00 o'clock.

Since Wake Forest's convincing defeat of University of North Carolina in their season opener by a 14-0 score, they have been heavy favorites to win the state title. Presbyterian College of South Carolina unexpectedly administered a 13-0 lashing to the Wake Forest team last Saturday and as Davidson defeated the Blue Stockings 3-0, the Wildcat stock has risen somewhat for Saturday's fray. However, the more cautious of the Davidson supporters remember that Rackley, the brilliant quarterback and mainstay of Wake Forest offense, was not in Saturday's game due to injuries, and attribute the Deacons’ defeat to this fact. And Rackley declares, “Shape or no shape, I am going to play against the Wildcats.”

Last year, Davidson, playing their best football of the year, tied Wake Forest 7-7 when the Deacons had been conceded the championship, and the same thing may happen this year. These two teams are the only ones of the “big five” who have not been defeated, Wake Forest having defeated Carolina, Davidson won out over State, and Carolina beat Duke 6-0 last Saturday.

Coach Monk Younger is expected to have his varsity line-up in the game with the exception of Lincoln, who will not be back in his tackle position at least until the V. M. I. game.

PLAYS TACKLE
Ernest Bohannon, end on the Wildcat eleven for the past two seasons, has been shifted to tackle to take the place of Abe Lincoln, who is out of the line-up with a broken arm. His play against State last week at Raleigh could hardly be criticized. Both teams realize the importance of this game and have been pointing to it all season. (Continued on page 7)

Doctor Ben Lacy of Union Seminary to Lead Annual Life Work Meetings

The fall meeting of the Y.M.C.A. this year will be conducted by Dr. R. Lacy, President of Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va. The meeting will begin on Sunday, November 7, and will extend through Wednesday, November 10. As in past meetings, two services will be held each day. The chapel period will be turned over to Dr. Lacy each morning, and his talk to the students at that time will take the place of the regular chapel exercises. After supper, the second services of the day will be held. These will be more complete than those of the morning. A quartet from the Seminary is expected to come with Dr. Lacy to assist him in the meeting.

Dr. Lacy was chosen President of Union Theological Seminary when Dr. W. W. Moore retired last spring. Though a relatively young man, Dr. Lacy was chosen by the Board of Trustees because of his remarkable ability and energy. He was called from the Central Avenue Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga., where he had distinguished himself in a remarkable way. Dr. Lacy is already known to the students as he preached the first sermon of the school year in the pulpit of the local Presbyterian Church. He was a prominent chaplain in the World War, being known among the soldiers as the “Fighting Parson.” Because of his prominence in military circles, the Davidson (Continued on page 8)

Masquers Present Play to Students

Davidson students had their first view of the College Dramatic Club last Wednesday night when a very good one-act play entitled “Antiques” was presented. The cast was composed of Bud Guthery, Frank Wilkinson, Mrs. C. K. Brown, and H. M. Austin. Bud Guthery was cast in the role of John Marshall, president of the Blue Ridge Power Company, who was negotiating for the purchase of some property in order to construct the dam. Frank Wilkinson, playing the part of an old man, and Mrs. C. K. Brown in the role of his wife, refused to sell the property. Legally the property could have been wrested from them, but Mr. Marshall did not wish to treat the old gentleman in this way. This old couple had on their homestead an antique bed, which an antique collector, acted by H. M. Austin, wished to buy. John Marshall, believing that everything had its price, bid against the collector for the bed to the sum of $2,000. Even for this price the old gentleman would not sell, and Mr. Marshall realized that some things could not be purchased. The act closed with Mr. Marshall offering them a half-million dollars more than the worth of the property, waiving aside all objections by stipulating that the dam would be built half a mile from his (Continued on page 8)

Committees for Junior Speaking are Announced
Bud Guthery Is Business Manager of Sanity Rare

WORK TO START SOON
Five Committees Totaling Thirty-Nine Students to Help Martin Program

Boyce Martin, general chairman of the Junior Week Committee, has announced the personnel of the various committees which will formulate plans for the activities to be held during Junior Week, the biggest social event at Davidson College each year. The Junior class puts on a series of social events each year at the Easter holiday season for the benefit of the entire student body. These entertainments extend over the whole period of six days, and form such an attraction that a very large percent of the Davidson students remain at college for the holidays. Prospects this year are even brighter and Junior Week for 1927 will surpass that of last spring, which was declared to be the best ever held here. The committees are listed as follows:

General chairman: N. V. Lis Camp O'Neal, vice-chairman; Arbuckle, F. S. Wearn, McRae, J. Garrison.

Program Committee: R. S. Lingle, chairman; J. Lee Robinson, A. Arrowood, Charley McRae, W. B. Bradford, Chalmers Carr.

Decoration Committee: Willard Howard, chairman; Martin Crawford, vice-chairman; McGee, Jimmy Wharton, Jack Montgomery, John Akers, McColgan, Paul Maulden, Alderman, O. P. Wearn.

Literary Societies Committee: Spike Clingman, chairman; H. T. Hancock, vice-chairman; Tyree Powell, Ben Dill, R. P. Nichols, Louis Marrow, Howard Lingle, S. Rodman.

Arrangements Committee: Boyce Martin, chairman; F. S. Wearn, vice-chairman; T. H. McPae, J. Garrison.

Three Injured Players Get Back Into Uniform
Lincoln, Black and Leftwich Return to Practice After Sickness and Injuries

None needed, areFor the first time in weeks, Wick Abe Lincoln and Dan Leftwich were in Wildcat uniforms last Monday. Both men, badly as they expected to get in the battle with Wake Forest in Charlotte next Saturday, but their presence in the practices will mean considerable to the Wildcat outfit. These are the moral stamina of the team. After starring in the first games of the season, Lincoln, a tackle in the line, has been out with a broken wrist and is practicing with a plaster cast about his arm. Leftwich, the other tackle of the line, has been out of the game now for three weeks with a cracked bone in his ankle. Though he is still limping about, he is able to take part in the workouts. Due to the need for tackles, Coach Younger has had to shift Bohannon from end to tackle. This has left the two ends, Monk and Arrowood, without any reserve strength. The appearance of these two tackles in the varsity lineup is expected by the Carolina game. Lincoln will probably see service in the V. M. I. game.

Wick Black, 1925 captain of the Davidson Wildcat football team, also appeared in uniform Monday afternoon. Since the first of the school year, he has been confined to the college infirmary with an attack of pneumonia. Although it is known that it will take some time for him to regain his strength, nevertheless, his appearance has put new hope and life into the football squad. He may be able to see service in the last games of the season. He was a star in the backfield last year.

Dick Grey Boots Field Goal to Take Hotly Contested State College Tilt

RUNNING WILD

Wells, of the Davidson team, who made his first great showing in the game with State last Thursday, made the most consistent gains of any of the backs. His sweeping end runs were the stepping stones to Dick Grey's drop-kick and ultimate victory.

State Team Holds Wildcats to Single Score

WELLS LEADS ATTACK

Davidson Boy Finally Pushes Over Drop Kick After Three Previous Failures

Dick Grey's educated toe gave the Davidson Wildcats the necessary margin to win over the North Carolina State aggregation last Thursday in Raleigh, the star backfield man of the Wildcat eleven sending the oval through the posts at the close of the third quarter, to chalk up a 3 to 0 win for the Presbyterians. This is the second time this season that Grey has won a game for Davidson with his boot and was the outstanding feature of as brilliant an exhibition of the great fall sport as was ever the fortune of the some six thousand fans who attended the melee to witness. It was the fourth successful drop-kick for Dick Grey this season, and his ability in this department of the game gave the Wildcats their fifth victory for the year. The lone three-point counter came after Grey had tried from almost impossible angles and distances. All honor and praises go to this back, not only for winning the game but for his consistent sensational playing, seconded by Captain Wells. This combination was responsible for many advances into the sacred territory of the Wolfpack, both of them skirmishing for long gains and smashing through the line for beautiful runs.

For three quarters the two elevens had battled to a scoreless tie. The Wildcats advanced again and again into the shadow of State's goal posts, only to be cheated out of the touchdowns by the spectacular holding of the State line. It looked as if the game would end in a tie-up. But just before the third period ended, State was forced to kick from behind their goal posts, after presenting an impregnable defense to the Wildcats, permitting the latter to gain but three yards in four plays.

(Continued on page 8)

Mel Trotter, Famous Evangelist, is Speaker at Special Chapel Service

Debating Tryouts To be Held Soon

Forensic activities of Davidson will begin this year with a debate in December, between George Washington University and Davidson. Arrangements are also being made for a debate with Virginia Polytechnic Institute in the same month. Plans for the latter debate, however, have not been completed as yet. The date for the debate with George Washington has been set for December 10, or thereabout; the scene being either in Queens College, Charlotte, or Davidson. The date for preliminary tryouts has not been definitely fixed, but it probably will be held in the second week of November. The query for the debate is: “Resolved, That the Volstead Act should be modified so as to permit the use of light wines and beer.” This question is one of national interest, with many political candidates placing a semi-wet plank in their platforms. Such a modification as suggested would probably alleviate the reign of terror with the beer kings in Chicago.

Miss Shaw has obtained abundant, valuable material on this subject which has been placed in the library and is now at the disposal of all those who are aspiring to a place.

(Continued on page 2)

(Continued on page 3)

Service on Wednesday

Mel Trotter, famous evangelist, who has been holding a revival meeting in the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, conducted the Chapel service last Wednesday morning. The speaker was accompanied to Davidson by Dr. A. S. Johnson, pastor of the First Church of Charlotte, and Mr. McLeod, who favored us with a solo.

“Every sinner is under a double sentence of death,” he stated. “Seth was born in sin although his father, who was born in the image of God, was born in the image of sin, and all thereafter have been born in sin and death. But God brought a remedy for both.” Mr. Trotter told of Bill Caesar, a prisoner at Sing Sing, who was under a two-fold sentence. First, he had a disease that would eventually lead to his death; and second, he had been condemned to death in the electric chair. Death was inevitable. If saved from the electric chair, he would die of disease, and if saved from disease, he would die in the electric chair.

“Man has always had a nature that is fallen. He is always being pulled downward. It is born in man to sin,” he asserted. “We have gone astray and not been led astray. Man never intends to go astray but just wanders away like sheep. Sheep never get back alone but are led by someone.” Mel Trotter said that he tried everything to cure himself of drinking but was as helpless as a child. Finally, he was led to see... (Continued on page 8)