THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1926

JOHN McNEELY RECOVERS

John McNeely, member of the Junior class, who was seriously injured on Armistice Day at Mooresville, is recovering rapidly and has been removed to his home in Charlotte. It is expected that he will be fully recovered by the first of February. McNeely was injured and received a fractured skull in an automobile accident at Mooresville. He, with a number of other boys, were thrown from a truck when the latter swerved. For a week or more he was not expected to live. However, he rallied and has fully passed the crisis by now. All the other boys thrown from the truck sustained minor injuries but were able to return to school within a short time after the accident.

Endeavor Training Class, Sunday. The topic was “Three kinds of Christian Endeavor members: associate, active, and honorary.” The principal aim of the meeting was to encourage students to become active members. Tom Preer had charge of the program at the regular meeting of the Christian Endeavor Training Class (C.E.T.C.) at the “Y” service last Sunday evening. Several reasons were given why one should become an active Christian Endeavor member rather than an associate member. T. E. Hill discussed the first of the reasons given: “Becoming an active member shows the world where you stand.” Sam Smith presented another by playing several selections on the xylophone. The meeting was dismissed with the Mizpah benediction.

DRINK - NuGrape
A FLAVOR YOU CAN'T FORGET

GLEE CLUB TO PRESENT
(Continued from page 1)
3. Solo—Selected.
4. Quartette—Selected: Mr. Green, Mr. McRae, Mr. Foster, Mr. McGill.
5. Swing Along. Dreaming: Glee Club.
6. The Wildcat Serenaders—Albright.
7. The Lotus Flower—Schumann: Glee Club.
Interlude.
8. De Sandman: Glee Club.
9. Popular Songs: Mr. Wilson; Mr. Mobley, accompanist.
10. Quartet—Selected.
11. Invictus. Vesper Hymn. Glee Club Soloist, Mr. Wilson.

NuGrape Bottling Co.
417 Dowd Road
Phone 5776
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WHEN IN STATESVILLE CALL ON US FOR YOUR BARBER SHOP WANTS
Commercial Barber Shop
Statesville, N. C.

Every minute $1104 worth of property is consumed by fire and every day 42 persons are burned to death with 46 injured. Be careful and help stop this awful waste.

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr.
Insurance Department
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Lance Quality Products
All dealers
LANCE PACKING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Delivered same day made.

“LAY ME DOWN TO SLEEP IN CAROLINA”
COME IN—SOON—AND HEAR THESE!
Lay Me Down to Sleep in Carolina
Fox Trot With Vocal Refrain
Nat Shilkret and the Victor Orchestra

It Made You Happy When You Made Me Cry
Fox Trot Vocal Refrain
Warring’s Pennsylvanians

Sadie Green, Vamp of New Orleans
Fox Trot with Vocal Refrain
Coney Island Washboard
Fox Trot
Five Harmoniacs

There Ain’t No Maybe in My Baby’s Eyes
No One But You Knows How to Love
With Piano

Don’t Sing Aloha When I Go
She’s Still My Baby
With String Instruments

For My Sweetheart
Piano
Just a Little Longer
Piano
Frank Banta

The Sweetest Story Ever Told
Violin, Flute and Harp
Simple Confession (Simple Aveu)
Neapolitan Trio

Over the Waves
Piano-accordion
Sirens Waltz
Piano-accordion
Mario Perry

Sweet Genevieve
Peerless Quartet
Where the River Shannon Flows (The Whispering Baritone)
Jack Smith
Four Aristocrats
Franklyn Baur

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Music Dept.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Dr. Raynal took his text from Numbers 11:29: “Would to God that all the Lord’s people were prophets, and that the Lord would put his spirit upon them.” Dr. C. E. Raynal, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville, spoke at the Vesper Service Sunday. Dr. Fraser Hood, professor of psychology, introduced the speaker. In introducing him, Dr. Hood called Mr. Raynal his master, referring to the latter’s skill in woodwork.

“Being an active member will strengthen you in your purpose to do right.” J.C. Evans furnished the special music of the program by playing several selections on the xylophone. The meeting was dismissed with the Mizpah benediction.

Were we created to be average, or were we created to be exceptional? God’s purpose was a man, Christ, and that all men should be in the image of Christ. Man was destined from the beginning to a glorious end. There are three reasons why we are not all geniuses. First, we throw away chance through sin; second, God and the hope of reward seem so far away; and third, and mainly because of procrastination and laziness. We think that we are so busy that we have no time for God. The greatest sin and the one by which most men fail is laziness. Solomon hated two things, a sluggard and a fool, and he came to the conclusion that they were the same. How can we succeed? There is no quick and easy path to success. We become geniuses only through toil and self-sacrifice. In natural gifts, all are fitted.| to be exceptional, but it is through training that the few who do succeed gain their pre-eminence. Almost any good horse can be made into a good race horse if he is properly trained. It is our problem to find our place in life and then make ourselves count for something through toil and self-sacrifice.

YULETIDE COMES (Continued from page 1)

Santa Claus is comin’! Fairies may fade away until their vapory forms are lost in the elements whence they sprang into being. The stern realities of man’s republic devastate the old monarchical splendor of childhood’s resplendent and colorful kingdom. But an eternal pinch of wistful yearning hides himself in some crevice of the human mind even as it shakes off the glories of an imaginative, yet ephemeral, past. Sober men romp as children. With unrestrained and unashamed vigor they select the evergreen tree, the red-berried holly, the amorous mistletoe. The home brightens with new life. The family spirit flames into new significance. From the erstwhile materialistic shop to the hitherto materialistic home come precious treasures that would be but baubles in midsummer. The green breath of fresh nature glows venerated and admired—the token of life in a wintry world. Beneath a roof are cherished God’s evergreen gifts. Natural beauty enters the home and artificial attempts at beauty pall before it. Christmas—good old Christmas!—opens the floodgate of men’s hearts and the spirit of youth pops out. Jolly St. Nick is real—and with him from his traditional home in the snows comes a sweeping avalanche, an unbridled host, or beneficent spirits. God's love flows from man to man, lightening the heart and uplifting the spirit. With each gift goes the giver. Fraternal love prevails; the sorely racked world is at peace.

Be not ashamed of this generous impulse. Revel in the spirit of the season! Reach out with your whole self and bask in the warmth of Christmas. Visit the shops. Marvel at the color. Thrill to the brisk air of loving anxiety. Open your heart and free your own good spirits. All the world praises God with loving praise on this one day and through this one season—Christmas. Draw up your memories of the gaily bedecked evergreen, the holly wreath, the green and the red of the bright festoons, the sparkling glint of the tinsel spangles, the beaming surprise of the unrestrained circle searching amid the treasures set down by the season’s saint for their share of the booty. Smell the pungent plum pudding, the savory roast turkey, the multitudinous assortment of fruit. Fill yourself to the brim with the joy and gladness of the season; that you may perceive and feel the glow of life that spiritualizes the bright display and renders the twinkle of the tinsel sincere. Santa Claus is real! His sleigh bells are already ringing so near that the merry tinkle falls upon our waiting ears and sets vibrating our holiday spirit. Merry Christmas to all! Let the thrill of the day light the lamp of your happiness!

The students of Davidson College responded to the appeal of the “Y” and contributed over eight hundred dollars to the Hangchow fund. Twelve members of the faculty gave over a hundred dollars bringing the total to over nine hundred dollars, and with some more reports to come in, the campaign leaders are certain that the full amount will be raised.

Watts Dormitory answered the call, with a contribution of nearly one hundred and seventy-five dollars. East and West Dormitories came close behind with one hundred and sixty apiece. The smaller buildings totaled around one hundred dollars apiece.

The campaign has been in charge of the Y Cabinet with J. F. Pinkney as campaign leader. Dormitory leaders were appointed with instructions to see every man in their respective buildings. These dormitory captains were Joe Frierson, W. L. Lingle, Bob Link, G. Batte, Charles McRae, and Boyce Martin.

MERRY CHRISTMAS! DAVIDSONIANS!

Big time ahead, Home for the holidays; all the old bunch home, too. Parties, dances, dinners, etc., etc., etc. And “She’ll” be there, too. Everything lovely!

The total sum of one thousand dollars is to be divided between the Hangchow Christian College in China and the Edgar Tufts Foundation for the furtherance of mission work in the mountains of North Carolina.

“Since 1808 The Home of Good Shoes”

GILMER-MOORE CO. CHARLOTTE

Luggage

There continues to be too much activity on the part of body-snatchers for anybody to see that John Barleycorn’s grave is kept green—The Anaconda Standard.

Shoes

Smart Styled Clothes for College Men Tailored At Rochester

It requires months of roaming the odd places of Europe to assemble the multitude of original fabric ideas that have made Braeburn Smart Styled Clothes for College Men famous. Know Braeburn Clothes once and swear allegiance forever $35 to $50

MELLON’S CHARLOTTE, N. C.