‘2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 16, 1926

Ten Games Appear On Team Schedule

Davidson's varsity football schedule as announced by the athletic authorities last week includes a total of 10 games. Of these,
only three will be played on the Hill, the Elon Christians coming for the initial encounter this Saturday; Guilford will
enter the Wildcat home the second weekend in October, and the big game with Carolina coming in the middle of
November. Only one newcomer appears on the schedule, Virginia Military Institute replacing Furman. All the other opponents are ones of
long standing with the Wildcats, the Duke game ending the season for both teams on Thanksgiving. Two teams will engage
the Wildcats on Wearn Field, in Charlotte, and the remainder will be played at their own stamping grounds. The completed
schedule with the opponents and dates follows:

Sept. 18—Elon at Davidson.
Sept. 25—Wofford at Spartanburg.
Oct. 2—Presbyterian College of S. C. at Rock Hill.
Oct. 9—Guilford at Davidson.
Oct. 14—N. C. State at Raleigh.
Oct. 23—Wake Forest at Charlotte.
Oct. 30—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.
Nov. 6—Hampden-Sidney at Charlotte.
Nov. 13—University of North Carolina at Davidson.
Nov. 25—Duke University at Durham.

Davidson Meets Elon on Richardson Field Next Saturday in First Game

First Football Contest of Season Pits the Wildcats Against the Christians

SPORTOGRAPHS By Caldwell Withers

With the opening of the 1926 football season only two days away, many of the teams of this section are
rounding into form. The Davidson Wildcats, after two weeks of intensive training, will meet the Elon Christians on Richardson Field
Saturday. The opening clash in North Carolina football circles takes place Saturday at 3:00 p.m. on Richardson Field, when the
Elon eleven visits the lair of the Fighting Wildcats in an effort to carry victory. Elon and Davidson have met
each other for the past several years, and this game, which is generally the first of the season, always proves
a good index to the strength of the two teams. Although the Wildcats each year have been the victors without
exception in this contest, there is a question in the minds of some as to the outcome this year. As
rumor and general reports have it, Elon is much stronger this year, and Davidson weaker. There is a new coaching
staff at Elon and the material is good. Captain McCauley, who is in a position to know the strength of
his own team, says that this year’s outfit will be the strongest ever to represent the Christians. As well as
having a number of last year’s varsity back, there are some good finds. Bob Englebach, a Pennsylvania man weighing 180
pounds, and who has quite a bit of experience, is perhaps the biggest find. Francis Sites also bids to go
good this year.

The Wildcats are sure also to make a creditable showing for the material is average and the coaching superb. The
backfield is no problem and will be perhaps as good as any in the state. Captain Wells, Grey, Leggette, Sappenfield,
Nisbet, Harrison, and Goodykoontz are good enough for any backfield. Goodykoontz is the big find of the season and it
looks like a big season for him. Black, the plunging fullback, is out perhaps for the whole season on account
of illness. The line will be the Wildcats’ weakness, but this part of the team doesn’t look as bad as
it did at the first of the season. The guards and tackles, if they prove strong, will mean a dangerous
opponent for any of the teams in the state.

Varsity Prospects Good When 50 Men Report For Football Practice

Six Letter-Men Out For Backfield—Eight Veterans Seek Berths in Line

Some 50 men have answered the call for early practice issued about the first of the month by Coaches Younger
and Tilson. In this group, there are six letter men out for backfield berths and eight men who played more
or less regularly in the line last fall. The main problem before Coaches Younger and Tilson is to develop a
line that will equal in strength and experience the seven letter men who are out for backfield berths. The varsity
coaches were amply aided in their task by the cooperation of “Flake” Laird and “Gig” Shepherd, the former winner of
the Norris Trophy cup and one of the best athletes Davidson has ever developed, and the latter a flashy back
who finished his athletic career in '23.

Also, there are eight or ten men who got into several games but who failed to make their “D,” and
several 1925 freshmen now graduated into varsity ranks who are capable of making their presence known. Captain Lucian Wells, with
three years’ varsity experience and possessing a drive that is always consistent and at times brilliant, will lead the Wildcat
attack. Wells’ one sure running mate will be Dick Grey, perhaps the flashiest back in the state. Throughout last season
Grey was always consistent with his gains around the ends and off tackle. He will be the chief triple threat
man that Davidson will have, doing the punting, passing, and running.

Despite the fact that last spring Coach Younger made the statement that Davidson would be lucky to win two games
this season, and Tex Tilson issued a gloomy weather forecast, the prospects for the Wildcats are looking up. The line
will be built around Pinkney, Bohannon, and Arrowood, ends all mentioned for all-state berths last year; Ritchie, tackle; Melton and
J. Grey, guards; and McConnell, center. Besides these letter men, the reserves of last year and the present sophomore class
will offer such men as Christian, Lincoln, Laws, Leftwitch, R. McConnell, Jennings, Mitchell, and McColgan.

The prospective line-up and positions are:

Davidson. Position. Elon.
Wells (c) LE Deepest
Wilson LT Alexander, F.
Ritchie LG Cox
Melton C McCauley (c)
McConnell RG Jones, D.
Lincoln RT Jones, R.
Bohannon RE Scag
Grey QB Allston
Nisbet LH Englebach
Goggins RH Kelly
Sappenfield FB Goodykoontz

WE HAVE THAT HOME COOKING
OPEN Monday Morning 12 to 2 A.M.
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Where Good Fellows Toasted Sandwiches
Snappy Curb Service
Brand-new place just behind station

In Statesville We Are Located
To serve you when you visit
Drinks Candy Smokes
Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N. C.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson MenSodas, Fruits, Candies, Sappenfield Bock report this fall, early practices seem to indicate that the
Wildcats’ opponents had better sit up and take notice.

The work on the new section of the stadium is being rushed and the contractors have promised to have the
stands ready for the Carolina game. The spirit exemplified by the Richardson brothers, of Greensboro, in making this long-felt need
possible is the sort of feeling that has made Davidson grow. Messrs. Richardson built the main athletic field at Davidson
and have contributed to the college’s constructive program in many ways.

The quarterback post will have the services of both Sappenfield, varsity quarter in '24, who broke his leg in the
Elon game last year, and Wilson, who called signals for the fresh two years ago but who was out of
school last season. Present indications point to the fact that Sappenfield will get the call over Wilson. Harrison, letter man
of last year, has shown more improvement than any other man on the squad in his fight for a back
position. Jim Hendrix’s most logical successor, Kell, the outstanding back of last year's fresh, is another man who will be
ready for the coaches’ call.

With Captain Wells, Grey, Harrison, Leggette, Nesbit, Goodykoontz, Allen, and Farrell to carry the ball and with Sappenfield or Wilson
calling signals, the Wildcats will be able to present a fast and well-rounded combination. The serious illness of Wick Black,
last year’s captain and star plunger, is a blow to the prospects as Black will not be able to get
into the game at all this season. In addition to those named, several likely candidates have come up from the
freshman ranks, including Kell, Sam Black, and King.

The end positions are being ably taken care of by three men, all of whom were mentioned for all-state berths
last fall. Pinkney, Arrowood, and Bohannon are in a mad scramble for the two wing places. McEachern and Wearn are
also in the running. The knottiest problem for the coaches to solve is who are to play the tackles. Ritchie,
one of the largest men on the squad and letter man, is one of the outstanding candidates. He is receiving
stiff opposition from Lincoln and Laws, both subs last season who played in a number of games. Leftwitch, big 180-pounder
from the fresh of last year, and Jennings, also of the class of ’29, are two other likely men.

With the return to school of “Sook” Boggs, the outlook as to the guard positions has taken on the most
promising of any in the team. Boggs will play next to Joe McConnell, a veteran center and a man who
was acclaimed last year as being the most accurate passer in the state. Playing the other guard will be either
Jim Grey or Melton. Both of these men earned their letters last year and have proven their worth in scrimmage
this fall. One of these men may be shifted to tackle. Christian, McColgan, and Mitchell, out for guard, and Riggs
McConnell, center, have been giving the others a run for their places.

A prospective glance at the material of Davidson opponents for the coming season indicates that there are going to be
an unusual number of hard contests for the Wildcats. While in actual number of letter men returning to school this
fall, Davidson probably has more than most of the teams on the schedule; many of these men were substitutes last
year, so there are not so many veterans, as would seem, on the local squad. The season is too early
yet a while to make any statements as to freshman strength, but there are a number of prep school captains
and stars in the group of some 80 men who responded to the call of Coach Mattox last week. Five
games have been arranged for the fresh.

Webb says that there are some people in Florida so low down that the seat of their trousers spoils out
their tracks when they walk in the sand.

SHOES FIXED BEST
E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP
DAVIDSON, N. C.

We Have the Following Departments to Serve You
We Hope You Will Patronize Them
Dry Goods
Notions
Shoes
Furniture
Hardware
Groceries
M. H. Goodrum & Co.

The upperclassmen at Davidson spoke on the shortcomings of the modern college education. Dr. Wilson said the colleges of today
were failing in their primary goal—teaching the student to think for himself. Several other fine lectures were delivered and were
of great value toward making the conference the great success that it was. The recreational side of the conference was
also stressed. There were numerous hikes to nearby points of scenic interest and athletic competitions between the various colleges represented.
Baseball was the king of sports, followed closely by basketball, tennis, and volleyball. Davidson made a most creditable showing in
tennis, due largely to the skillful playing of Red McAlpine. The University of Georgia won the championship in baseball, basketball,
and volleyball. The Blue Ridge lake was the scene of much bathing and canoeing during the conference. The canoes were
in great demand on moonlight nights—due to the presence of quite a few girls in the vicinity. The conference was
a great success from beginning to end and proved of unusual value to those attending as well as providing them
an enjoyable visit to Blue Ridge.

To the new students coming for the first time, and to the old ones returning, we extend a hearty W-E-L-C-O-M-E.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N.C.
