iE DAViDSONi - DECEMBER 9, 1920

The Davidsonian: Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

HARLEE E. BRANCH, JR. Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. GRIER Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON Assignment Editor
P. F. JONES Feature Editor
T. T. JONES Inquiring Reporter
E. L. DOUGLASS Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE Assistant Business Manager
A. McALPINE Subscription Manager
V. I. ALBRIGHT Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
A. N. OWEN
R. H. McILWAINE
J. P. McKNIGHT
A. M. SPARROW
B. WILSON
B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

It is generally understood about the campus that The “D” Club is asking permission of the faculty to install a
trophy room in one of the abandoned fraternity halls on the campus. No more desired addition, as far as students
and alumni are concerned, could have been proposed. A designated room in which pictures of the athletic teams, individual trophies
won in inter-collegiate contests, etc., could be placed, would be a vast improvement over our present system under which the
few trophies that have been preserved are scattered and hidden at various places on the campus. We should already have
been arranging to perpetuate the fame of the Wildcat teams.

J. L. ELY
L. WADSWORTH
TYREE DILLARD
J. R. WEAVER

The editor is in receipt of a copy of the Presbyterian Blue Stocking, in which its editor answers our reply
of a few weeks ago. We are also in receipt of a letter from the Blue Hose editor, in which
he expresses a hope that (now that P. C. has had the first and last word), we will allow the
matter of an athletic break between our colleges to drop. The Davidsonian accedes to his wish.

Good advice from Wake Forest: “College men had better do their Christmas shopping before the folks back home spend all
the money.”

BOVINE SAGACITY

The next time you have an opportunity to watch the actions of a hungry cow turned loose in a large
pasture. She eats up the very first grass she strikes. When the appetite is satisfied for the moment, she starts
her tour of inspection about the field. Here and there she samples the plots of grass that appeal most to
her sight. After a while you will notice that “old bossy” has selected the grass areas most to her taste
and sticks to them. They may be entirely disconnected—probably they are. But she profits by the moderate exercise in going
from place to place. All the time she grows fatter and sleeker, more valuable.

The next time you have an opportunity to watch the actions of a hungry student turned loose in the college
library. He eats up the very first grass he strikes—the periodicals. From this point on we discover that the student
lacks the “hoss” sense that the cow demonstrates. In ninety-five cases out of a hundred he goes astray on one,
or both, of two wrong paths. He may wander aimlessly into the downstairs reference rooms and there settle down to
a gluttonous feast of meaningless facts and misunderstood data. Or, without so much as sampling the reference section of the
outlay, he may pass on upstairs to the historical section—and there likewise fail to sample the food. He may taste
a blade or two of the mental grass he finds flourishing there; but his small nibble is not sufficiently representative
to offer him a basis of judgment in deciding whether he might care to return later. The fictional and bound
periodical sections, the religious and science and art sections, are all hurried through in the same manner. All these experiences
do not, however, prevent the gluttony, and the aimless wanderer has become weary with his wanderings, these two worthies jump
the fence “to fresh woods and pastures new.” Sometimes the new pastures are sadly wanting in intellectual food. Yes, they’re
barren more often than not.

Five men in one hundred profit by the example of the cow; although they do not, of course, realize the
kinship of procedure. The wise student, his temporary appetite satisfied by a dip into the sea of journals (to change
the metaphor), begins a more than cursory investigation of the literary field. He combines the methods of “fizzle one” and
“misfit two” and works out a happy golden mean. He takes the entire library as his travel route, and he
samples in each section those books appealing most to his imagination and interests. Within a few days, or at the
most several weeks, he knows where the richest grasses grow and feasts on them. He finds the library a source
of strength. True, one plot of grass may be more palatable than the remainder of his selected intellectual meal; but
the proportion maintained gives a balanced diet. All the time he grows more able and more cultured, more valuable to
himself and to society.

Of books and reading there is no end. For man’s time there are restrictions—there are limitations. Learn the lesson from
the cow. Learn to know and use and enjoy the wealth of the college’s library.

DESTRUCTIVE ENTHUSIASM

The celebration of football victories, even in these days when gridiron championships are seemingly the main issue in college life,
will not justify a spirit of enthusiasm that, allowed to run rampant, oftentimes results in damage to the college, both
in the matter of property and reputation. Enthusiastic students, in a spirit of joyousness, too often leave the marks of
their celebrations where they cannot be erased. Irreparable damage to college property, be it done under the guise of “college
spirit” or in a mood of willful destructiveness, is not to be permitted or excused.

It is not difficult to understand how a student, hilarious over a newly acquired gridiron championship, will become so utterly
joyous as to forget for a time at least the value of the property of which he is in reality
a trustee. The least wise of us, if we stopped to think, would realize the folly of celebrations which bring
discredit and disfavor upon our college. But, strange as it may seem, college men, urged on under the impetus of
what they term “college spirit,” think too seldom of the serious consequences which their actions may bring.

We are all guilty in one way or another of indifference toward our responsibilities as trustees of college property. But,
a marked improvement in conditions during recent years had removed the necessity of a diligent watchfulness over the buildings and
the campus. However, the celebration of the victory over Carolina has rudely interrupted our lethargy along these lines. We are
awakened again to the need of concentrated care for our college buildings and campus.

The student, who with paint-brush in hand, proceeded to patrol our campus after the Carolina game, and to inscribe in
great disfiguring letters the score of that signal Wildcat victory undoubtedly felt that he was doing only what any enthusiastic
Davidson man would have done under the circumstances. But, his enthusiasm blinded his eyes to the finer sort of “college
spirit,” namely, the kind of spirit that induces a man to refrain from any action that will hamper the growth
of his college. The telltale scores, printed here and there on the college buildings and concrete walks, may perhaps continue
to detract from the beauty and dignity of our campus. Reports indicate that the numerals cannot be erased, and that
the college mustgo to great expense in replacing the concrete slabs in the buildings, in order to remove the disfiguring
marks of one student’s enthusiasm. The great figures, smeared on the historic columns of Old Chambers building, will perhaps remain
as a perpetual example of the evils which follow in the wake of childishness. Painting scores on college buildings will
always smack too strongly of collegiate conceit. No modesty in that. To the outsider, who does not understand the ways
of students, the bold numerals appear as marks of boastfulness on the part of a crowd of hoodlums—not the modest
acceptance of credit by self-respecting college men.

Who’s Who at Davidson

KELLY VERNON WOODHAM
Columbus, Miss.
Captain of Baseball

Have you noticed a competent-looking Senior, carrying about the campus with him one genuine perpetual smile? That's Kelly Woodham, the
baseball man from old Mississip’. Both to Davidson in the fall of 1923 and since that time Kelly has played
baseball in the good old summertime with industrial league teams. The experience at hitting and holding down in a beautiful
manner base number-one which he received by constant practice has made next spring’s captain one of the most valuable and
able players on the Davidson nine. In his first year Kelly was elected captain of the Wildkitten baseball team. And
during each succeeding year he has made the varsity team and won his “D.” The first season Kelly played with
the varsity he seemed off-form. The entire team failed to get going as they wished to. Kelly is not a
tall man and so he lost a number of chances to put his man out by stretching himself far enough
toward the sky. But those disastrous errors didn’t damage the Columbus man’s good nature or pep in the least. He
stuck with the great national game. Last year was a different story. Still playing first base Kelly hit his normal
gait. When the ball went high he saw to it that he was up in the air in time to
make a good catch. When he was batting he swung at the pill with a business-like swat. Kelly’s pep was
a feature of every game. Consequently, at the finish of a spring that was highly successful for the team, he
was elected captain for the 1927 season. Whatever Kelly undertakes in earnest, he completes successfully. On the shoulder of his
military uniform are three silver buttons. For this year, his fourth with the Davidson R. O. T. C., he is
Captain-Adjutant of the battalion. Alpha Epsilon social fraternity has Kelly’s membership.

HARRY GORDON GOODYKOONTZ
Bluefield, W. Va.
Captain of Track

Very seldom does a man excel in studies, in athletics, and in helping to shape the religious activities of a
college campus. But Harry Goodykoontz is such a man. When the class of 1923 entered Davidson Harry was among those
present. But, long before the collegiate year had ended the clean-cut West Virginia boy became known as the fastest man
in school—on the cinder track. The same speed had been demonstrated too in the Freshman football games. Harry made his
“D. C.” on the gridiron. Basketball season arrived, and there was Harry again. But with the arrival of track season
came the real discovery by the Davidson coaches. Although the Fresh were ineligible for a place on the varsity team,
yet Harry proved himself easily the best dash man in “these here parts.” The first ten men in grades of
each class had their names and averages printed in The Davidsonian at the conclusion of the first semester. Harry stood
well near the head of the list. If the roll of the Ministerial Band is called Harry is there to
answer when the “G”s are named. Look on the books of the Pandenic Literary Society. Yes, there’s H. G. Goodykoontz
again. All this happened in Harry’s Freshman year. He took a running start. And surely he’s not only still in
the running, but he’s going even better than at the beginning. Is it surprising that Harry has won two letters
in track, is an O. D. K. member, has served on the Board of Control, been Vice-President of the Ministerial
Band, and filled the Treasurer’s office of the Y. M. C. A.? The present college records in track include 100-yard
dash—10 seconds; 220-yard dash—22 seconds. Harry Goodykoontz holds both these. Harry is a member of the Delta Theta Chi social
fraternity.

Minor Chords
Collegiate Chatter

THE VALE OF SOLITUDE

A deep dark valley rolls endlessly in mind's wasteland,
Reeking with gloomy phantoms—light ne'er breaks through
The impenetrable clouds nor sheer bare crags
That hang above; a gray canopy and wall,
“A Vale of Solitude;” it is the Tempter’s choice abode.
Wherein, with basest foulness, fiends despairing bid
Mortal hopes and human faith resign the power they boast,
And throw their strength beneath Doubt's fearsome shadow.
At times I cross the threshold to this chill and futile path
Of loneliness, that has no end but leads
The thoughts as in a stupor or a trance
Beyond the outmost pale of proper reason;
But suddenly dispelling torpid gloom with all its bane,
A wondrous vision checks at once my awesome course
And draws me filled with happy rapture to Her arms—
’Tis my Love who dwells upon the mountain top!
—Floyd Jones.

Davidson men must take more interest in the maintenance of college property if they desire to see their alma mater
continue to share in the gifts that have made our remarkable growth possible. No one desires to see his money
invested in a building that will be used as a canvas on which aspiring collegiate artists and sign-painters will do
their practicing. Painting signs upon the walls of our buildings, turning the campus upside down and inside out, doing permanent
injury to college property may seem in our more childish hours a fine demonstration of collegiate enthusiasm. But, after all,
fellows—isn’t it a sort of vandalism that should not be tolerated upon our campus? The fine spirit demonstrated by the
“D” Club in their willingness to refrain from a traditional war on the campus at their recent initiation commends itself
to us as an appropriate example. Until Davidson men become more conscious of their responsibility as trustees of college property,
we cannot chide at the seeming slowness with which needed improvements are enacted on our campus.

Greased Pig

What with their annual beauty shows, Easter egg hunts, and May King festivals, what will the frosh at Georgia Tech
do next? Only recently two freshmen representatives from each of the fraternities on the Tech campus chased a pig between
halves at the football game between the Tech rats and the Alabama freshmen. The pig had been shaved and well
greased before it was turned loose. The freshman who caught the pig and held it for thirty seconds received a
prize of a $20 gold piece.

Co-ed Chagrin

When co-educational students on the William and Mary campus learned of a recent ruling by the faculty that girls whose
grade fell below an average of 80 would not be allowed to have dates or enjoy other social privileges, their
wrath was unbounded. A subsequent announcement to the effect that the ruling would likewise apply to the male students helped
to quiet their wrath.

New Campus

Students at the University of California, Southern Branch, recently assumed the garb of stump-speakers, and succeeded in getting 445,000 favorable
votes from California electors for the proposition which will enable them to proceed with the construction of a new campus.
A fund of $3,000,000 was made available by the ratification of the proposition, said amount to be used in the
construction of four main buildings on the new campus. Work on the new addition is to be commenced at once.

Physical Education

A four-year course in physical education will be added to the curriculum of Lafayette College if a proposal submitted by
the Lafayette physical director is approved by the faculty committee on curriculum. A student enrolling in the proposed department will
be given a four-year course in physical training, and upon graduation will receive a regular B.S. degree. The course will
contain a six-hour class in athletic coaching, and is intended to fit men for positions as coaches, teachers, and physical
directors.
