4 : THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '45

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson, N. C., as Second Class Mail Matter

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the College Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD BREDERICE SMITH Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. BRANCH Assistant Managing Editor
L. D. ARMFIELD
F. K. BELL
W. E. MILTON
R. B. PARKER
A. Y. BOWIE
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
GARNETT McMILLAN Humorous Editor
J. B. WEBB Alumni Editor
H. L. SNEED Editor

Business Staff
H. D. BURKE Business Manager
W. G. HOGG Assistant Business Manager
V. S. BRADLEY Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. McSWEEN Subscription Manager
JULIAN CRAWFORD Service Department

Reporters’ Club
G. A. EDDINGTON, Pres.
T. T. JONES, V.-Pres.
W. L. LINGLE, Sec.-Treas.
W. MURCHISON
B. MARTIN
W. H. ALLISON
R. H. McILWAINE
H. AUSTIN
C. L. BRAGAW
A. M. OWEN
D. M. CALHOUN
J. G. WHARTON
W. T. COVINGTON
R. WILSON
W. T. DAVIS
C. VERSER
S. GORDON
W. S. JOHNSTON
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH

EDITORIAL

PACIFISM vs. R. O. T. C.

Why have military training in our American colleges? This question has been agitated during the past few years since the World War and today it stands forth as a problem that concerns the future military system of our country. The United States government, so far, has not paid much attention to these pacifists who decry the fact that the glorious young manhood of our fair land is being prepared as cannon fodder. In several colleges and universities, the discussion as to whether the military training received is beneficial has been much mooted. The students of the College of the City of New York staged an unsuccessful revolt against such training in December, but their efforts were heralded widely enough to cause the pacifists to add fuel to their fires of disturbance.

The complaint against R. O. T. C. courses in colleges and schools has been made more by loud-mouthed agitators and narrow-visioned mollycoddles rather than by the students who are actually concerned with it. There is in Congress today a party who have taken a very decided stand upon this question, and their viewpoint is that such enforced military training is detrimental to the youth of this country. Organized societies have spread their propaganda throughout the states in their efforts to belittle the good that has been done by the War Department in its furtherance of a system of military education.

If one would look at the records of the State and War Departments, he would undoubtedly find many of those who are at present agitating pacifism on the list of those who so violently denounced the action taken by Congress in declaring and carrying on war with the Imperial German and Austrian governments. Their holy cries of horror at a policy of activity have not died down.

The late war taught the terrible price which a country pays for unpreparedness. We spent billions in mobilizing and equipping expeditionary forces to combat a foe who had never reached our shores. Seventy thousand young lives were snuffed out and many thousands more were disabled for life. The Allies paid in men and millions. The effect is not over, and never will be as long as history lasts.

The R. O. T. C. has for its purpose the training of young men for service to their country. Not for military service alone, but the fulfillment of the highest duties of citizenship. To build a man physically, morally; to instill habits of obedience and ideals of loyalty and faithfulness, is the theme of this organization’s service. Strict obedience is required. Unswerving loyalty to one’s country is set as the ideal. Those of us who believe that there will be another war realize that the best way to prepare is to be ready.

WAR DEPARTMENT SENDS GREETINGS

“The magnificent record of loyalty and service to the nation which characterizes the history of Davidson College is exemplified in the Davidson men who make up its R. O. T. C.

“Every citizen owes it to his country to so school himself that he may be of some value should national emergency require his service with the colors.

“Every generation of Americans since the nation began has fought and sacrificed that American citizenship might be handed on to us as the greatest privilege on earth. We would be poor descendants of those men and women if we failed in the continued obligation and did not give of our best to maintain for our sons and their sons the same splendid inheritance.

“All success to you in the fine service you are giving not only to Davidson and North Carolina but to the nation.”

HANFORD MacNIDER, Assistant Secretary of War.

Theodore Roosevelt believed in this. Had we heeded some of his wise advice in regard to the late war, money and young manhood would have been saved. We should never be in that position again. R. O. T. C. stresses the all-round development of a boy. Any boy that takes four years of this military training with a summer or two at a camp will enter upon the duties of manhood with firmer convictions, more knowledge of human nature, and a better understanding of his obligations to his fellowmen and to his country. This military education is not primarily concerned with the fitting up of a man to go to war but with the training and development that rounds out a man for the highest type of citizenship.

The local unit of the R. O. T. C. has a most successful history behind it. Its officers have always been of the highest type of American manhood. Under its influence, the college has progressed greatly. The effect of the training received is readily apparent. More Juniors are taking the course this year than have ever taken it before. Under the guidance of Captain Weems, there is a bright promise for the future of the R. O. T. C. at Davidson.

NINE YEARS AFTER

One day last week, April 6th, marked the entrance of the United States into the greatest conflict of all times. On that bright April day in 1917, we plunged with heart, soul, and body into the maelstrom of human devastation and anguish. We put our shoulders side to side with the stricken Allies and for a year and a half gave blow for blow, shell for shell, until at last we emerged triumphant.

The years that have passed have been short. The memories of war are with us today. We cannot forget the millions of young men who gave their lives. The economic upsets will last for years to come. Nations are still snarling at one another; real peace has not been secured. The fruits of war are too bitter to be sweetened by a few years of peace.

These few years have wrought great changes in the affairs of nations. Governments have been deposed and overthrown. Germany is in a state of unrest because her people are not sure of their government. We know little of Russia except that the Czar is dead and there are deadly factions tearing at each other’s throats. Clemenceau and Joffre have played their part and are heard from no more. The ablest generals of the war have mostly gone into the discard. War demands young flesh for its rapacious maw. Pershing and Bullard of our own forces have retired. Foch is still alert but he has not the power of former years. Petain, Allenby, Byng, Wilson, and others who inscribed themselves upon the rolls of the illustrious are forgotten. Many of the players are off the stage and their lives have been closed in disappointment.

The League seems to be in a state of turmoil today. The Locarno Treaty has not had the steadying effect that was hoped for. Nations seem jealous of one another. Perhaps the steadying hand of the United States was needed. We think that it will be the determining influence of future affairs.

But through all the clouds, a central, dominant figure stands out above all others. By his devotion to an ideal which a selfish world was not ready for, he sacrificed his life on the altar of human liberty. The dominant figure of the war and reconstruction was and is—Woodrow Wilson.

H. L. MENCKEN ET AL.

Henry L. Mencken, devout Methodist, self-appointed guardian of our national intelligence, and...Well known in this section of the South for certain scurrilous articles casting aspersions on our unbeknighted country, is fast acquiring the right to be called the “bad boy” of contemporary American literature. His latest breach of national strength and security has been to twiddle his thumbs with rare disdain at the earnest members of a certain Boston society which sought to prevent the circulation of the American Mercury, of which he is the editor, on account of a certain article, “Hatrack.” The Watch and Ward Society, of Boston, has for its purpose the prevention of a decline in public morals; its members, presumably cultured Bostonians, have undertaken to inculcate a higher sense of morality in the hoi polloi by guarding them carefully from contaminating literature and public performances where art and so-called artists display feminine pulchritude for a purpose. A hubbub was raised in the Hub, the magazine was ordered suppressed there and in a day or two the powers that be, at Washington, sent forth an edict that the Mercury was barred from the mails. Mecken smiled. The April issue of his magazine had been sent to all parts of the United States, there were no more available, but there were bright prospects for a 100 per cent increase in circulation the next month. The article in question treated of small town prostitution, describing in no mincing terms some of the evils that were present in the ordinary American village of several decades ago. But this was “used only to illustrate the manner in which the preachers and evangelists of that day injected religion into a person. Hell was painted in lurid terms; the good men and women of the town were asked to join in the crusade for righteousness and to eschew evil in every form. Awful punishment was brought home to them by fanciful illustrations. The overwhelming love of God and his infinite mercy was stressed nearly so much as his wrath and anger. “Hatrack” was the name given to a woman of the streets in the little town in which the writer lived. She was bad because she was an object of scorn in the community; her craving for normal human companionship was never gratified. She was a faithful attendant at church but she sat alone. The preacher told of the beautiful story of Mary Magdalene but he and his consecrated flock never approached Hatrack with proffers of love and compassion. Their religion was in theory and not in fact. And the woman learned to look upon those about her with a dull hatred because she was not one of them. She was fundamentally good; a little Christian persuasion would have changed her whole life. The story itself is vibrant with human interest and real life. The description of the woman’s yearning for better things is like unto that of a Hugo or a De Maupassant. Such is as true as life itself. The evil is too often mixed with the good and it is hard to face at times. It does us good to discover the hidden seam of sorrow and misery in life, for by doing so, we can better shape our efforts towards rendering a greater service towards our fellow men. The management of the local movie house is to be tendered congratulations and felicitations for the high grade attractions that have been secured this year. These pictures have been representative of the best productions of this country. The seats, lately added, have served the townspeople and the music has been good. The only thing that is lacking, or rather the only fly in the ointment, is the small crowd of thoughtless scofflaws who persist in smoking there.

Minor Chords

LOST MOTION

There’s a snap to their step as they're marching, There's a thrill as the band starts to play. There's a throb in the hearts of the ladies, As their soldier lads tramp, tramp away. The drums roll their cry of defiance, There's strength in the bugle’s shrill blast, And we think of the battle’s wild fury, As the boys in khaki march past. The crowd stands breathless and watches, Their fear is lost in the thrill, For there’s no need to fear war's anger today, It’s only our “Rotcy” at drill. —Harllee Branch, Jr.

For the good of the R. O. T. C. unit we hope that no Freshman pulls the trick during inspection that happened last year. An officer was inspecting a platoon and upon taking the gun got his finger in the chamber; the above-mentioned Freshman immediately closed the bolt, much to the pain and displeasure of the officer. Going through life is like shooting a machine gun; any dumb-bell can sit still and pull the trigger, but when a stoppage occurs the trained man scores. A Freshman of Co. A wouldn't look through the peep sight because it didn't sound decent to him. A newly appointed platoon sergeant (name furnished upon receipt of stamped, self-addressed envelope) was calling the roll for the first time. He came to his own name, called it out twice and then marked himself absent.

A UTOPIAN INSPECTION

“Gentlemen of the front rank may stand at ease or lean on their rifles. Private Mister Smith, you’ve forgotten your leggings; try to remember them for next drill. Mr. Jones, those golf shoes are very attractive, and such pretty stockings. Corporal Stuffenhauser, you have a splendid squad; by their smiling faces I can see that you treat them well. Kindly replace those captain’s bars with corporal’s chevrons at your convenience. Mr. Knotz, as there is no special ceremony for today a straw hat is not required, next time I'll be tempted to give you a demerit. Mr. Intheneck, I think you can find a better place for your frat pin than on your R. O. T. C. cap. Mr. Staggerty, what is that bulging in your hip pocket? I want to see you behind the armory after drill. Mr. Rymaplg, it is against all military etiquette to spit tobacco juice at the men in the front rank. Mr. Specsworth, what is that book you are reading? Ah, ‘Manhattan Transfer,’ very good book. Now, you gentlemen may close ranks at will; a very good appearance today. First sergeant; gimme a match. Tell the company they may retire to their rooms.”

A MACHINE GUNNER'S DREAM

Buford Webb, Captain Elkin’s expert machine gunner, had been firing on the range all afternoon. That night his roommate heard him get up out of bed and start rambling around; he sat down on the floor near the radiator and began turning the valve. Then began the following somnambulist monologue: Well, well—the front lines. Up here and where is everybody? Here’s the old gun; all ready too. Now bring on those—those—who are we fighting anyway? Aha! there’s one in pink pajamas—must be fighting the Japs. I'll make him jump. Now how do you start—let’s see—page 384 Sec. 3. Insert cartridge belt from the—ah, here’s a hole in the bottom—fits nicely. No, no, that’s backwards. Ha, ha, almost shot myself. Now pull back on the handlebars and ease in the clutch. Boy, don’t she make a noise. NOW, what the heck. That fellow hasn’t moved yet. Wonder what—well, well, wouldn't that jar you, all rolling right out on the ground in front. I know that one—too much head-space adjustment. Probably needs a size 6 7-8 instead of a 7. Put a little piece of felt under the upper swing swivel. Now, here we go. —The dirty bum's gone off somewhere—guess I'd better search awhile. The army sure is a hard life—this is the roughest stretch of road I’ve ever traversed—Better slow down—I'll break a recoil spring. Gone to missing again—Dead! Make a hurried reconnaissance.—Halfway between the swimming pool and the barn—that means a stoppage in the 9th position; have to strip her.—Page 655 Sec. 185/62—Pull back on the bolt, wind up the driving spring and remove to the rear. Raise the cover and cover charge to $1.50,—wash the back plate, knife and fork. Next try to extract the barrel, barrel staves, and bung, by turning the extractor cam feed spring lever into a corkscrew and so removing the plug from the left front flat surface of barrel extension and draining the carburetor—Here’s the trouble—angle of sight has the lens broken and the quadrant of elevation is worn almost through to the cocking lever retaining pimple. Truly a terrible state—How do they expect a man to do overhead fire in the dark with a mask on with an old sewing machine like that. I'm going back to bed. Now how did I get here? Doesn't matter, this year’s best joke—All the boys are looking forward to a nice pleasant time at Camp McClellan.

KABLE.