4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. ---- Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES ---- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. GING ---- Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN ---- Assistant Managing Editor
F. G. WITHERS ---- Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB ---- Associate Editor
D. M. CALHOUN ---- Alumni Editor
H. L. SHELBY ---- Humorous Editor
W. S. GORDON ---- Assignment Editor
P. F. JONES ---- Feature Editor
T. T. JONES ---- Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS ---- Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD ---- Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE ---- Assistant Business Manager
A. J. McMULLEN ---- Subscription Manager
V. L. ALBRIGHT ---- Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY ---- Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
T. T. JONES
J. L. ELY
L. WADSWORTH
TERS DILLARD
R. H. McILWAINE
J. P. McKNIGHT
A. M. SPARROW
B. WILSON WEAVER
B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

THINK ON THESE THINGS

This fellow Percy Marks, instructor, author, and lecturer, has become a regular collegiate Mencken. Two years ago he startled undergraduates into action by his rather sensational portrayal of college life under the title of The Plastic Age—and now, just like the critical machine gun that he is, he hurls his devastating missiles against you alumni.

His latest attack, directed at the graduates, is perhaps more extensive and intensive than his charge on the undergraduates, and is, perchance, over-colored with a lot of wrath-provoking “nonsense,” calculated only to gain attention and stir up the “inert” targets at which he is aiming. But, he’s got your number, he’s adjusted his sights—and his shots are hitting the mark.

Writing in the July Harper's Magazine, he brings indictment after indictment against the alumni of American colleges, and his charges range all the way from a denouncement of intellectual potentialities among the group he attacks to a charge that American college alumni have a badly distorted idea of loyalty to their alma mater.

“In discussing the alumni,” says Percy Marks, “I do not feel any need for caution: it is impossible to overstate their follies: it is impossible to be unfair to them considered in the mass. They are the visible and, worst yet, audible evidence of the results of American education, and what a sorry sight they are.”

According to Mr. Marks, the alumni are a bunch of colorless Babbitts, self-imposing and bothersome stockholders in their alma maters; theirs is an evil influence which is killing education beneath its demands for standardization of students; they are an unintelligent group of poker players, rounders, and perverted sportsmen, who think themselves capable of shaping and directing the curricula and student activities of the colleges from which they have come; and furthermore, they are a veritable millstone about the neck of the college president who desires to substitute a bit of scholastic proficiency for some of the athletic supremacy already enjoyed by the college.

Those are bold charges, and the majority of them have only a slight basis of truth. If our alumni were either as bad or as all-powerful as Professor Marks portrays them, then H. G. Wells would certainly not have overlooked them in his far-reaching and verbal onslaught against the colleges a few months ago. The alumni are powerful, their influence is a prime factor in the establishment of a successful college—and, luckily, neither Marks nor his colleagues have pictured them true to life.

You are a great bunch of fellows, you alumni, and you are capable of making of your alma mater just what you would have her. Athletic stadiums are great things, donations for the salary of efficient coaches are not to be underestimated in their worth to the college—but there are things more important and more profitable than either stadiums or coaches. Athletes do advertise a college and bring students to it, but the type of man who comes to a college simply because it attracts and buys athletes is hardly the type of student that your alma mater desires to gather into its student body. Harvard is a living refutation to the contention that a few unsuccessful athletic seasons will ruin a college. Harvard has been suffering setback after setback on the athletic field, yet last fall it had to shut its doors to great hordes of students who were seeking places within its walls.

The idea that a college grows great because of athletic prowess has been accepted throughout the land, and Dartmouth has been frequently pointed out as a proof of this supposition. But, Dartmouth grew great because of the well-regulated enthusiasm of its alumni in things equally as important to the college as the athletic teams. “Sport for sport’s sake has become a mere slogan,” says Mr. Marks, “and such over-emphasis by alumni on the value of athletics gives the undergraduates a false sense of values that is injurious both to them and to the college.”

The importance of alumni interest in athletics is not to be overlooked, nor should the harm that might result from it be considered too lightly. We must avoid extremes, we must maintain a sober and sane view on the college and its responsibilities. Alumni, when they are able, should contribute to the building of stadiums, to the support of capable coaches, and to the maintenance of good athletic teams. But, if they would see their alma mater in the place of preeminence it deserves, they must also grapple with the other needs of the college and its undergraduate students. What of the duty that falls on the alumni to improve campus conditions, to see that dormitory and classroom facilities are adequate, to keep students interested in these days of distraction in the things even more vital than athletics?

Chambers building, the dream of the college authorities, is still incomplete. Its wing stands as a pertinent reminder of the need of alumni interest in other things. The vacant pulpit in the college church should proclaim Davidson’s need for active interest on the part of alumni in the religious welfare of its undergraduate students. The absence of many important courses from our curriculum; the crying need for more instructors; the lack of a department for the education of students along the lines of music, art, and dramatics; the long-felt desire for bigger appropriations for the debating teams, so as to enable students interested in forensic activities to secure a full-time coach; and, finally, the need for a change in library conditions—do not these all commend themselves to the alumni? Are they not worthy of at least a little interest among our graduates? Do they not warrant concerted action among the fellows who think only of their college as a place where athletic teams are made?

If there be any truth, if there be any virtue, Mr. Alumnus, think on these things!

That game at Lynchburg in which the Wildcats lost to the V. M. I. Cadets was a model of clean and courageous football. The two teams, the officials, and even the spectators displayed the finest sort of sportsmanship. The remarkable comeback staged in the second period by the Cadets spelled doom for the Wildcats, who in defeat paused long enough to pay tribute to their gallant adversaries. We had hoped for a Davidson victory, and the wonderful showing of our men against the Virginia team adds to our pride in the Red and Black; but, V. M. I. won—and won by a brand of football that we all admire.

It has been suggested that athletic authorities at Davidson insure the never-failing toe of Dick Grey against any possible loss. In view of the fact that Ziegfeld beauties have frequently indemnified themselves against the loss of valuable portions of their anatomy, this suggestion does not seem amiss. Three times this year Dick has booted the pigskin through the crossbars.For the only Wildcat scores, twice his deadly aim has brought Davidson to victory, once a tie, and twice again his uncanny precision has won us additional counters.

DIXON KNICKERS

The Department of Student Life at the North Carolina College for Women has called the attention of students to an article in the handbook, which prohibits the wearing of knickers on the front campus or in the dining room, says the Carolinian, “North Carolina's Most Readable College Journal.” There appears in the same issue a notice that the N.C.C.W. girls have paid a fee of $1.60, which entitles them to the use of swimming suits for their four years of college life.

Welcome to Our Alumni

FROM THE FACULTY

A real Davidson alumnus is one who is always enthusiastic for the best interest of his college. The majority of students who come here have had their attention directed to Davidson by alumni. Every Davidson man is proud of his college and cherishes in his heart her noble traditions. It was not until recent years that especial effort was made to get alumni to return to the campus in large groups. Commencement lately has not had the interest that characterized it in former years. The renewed interest in athletics, the featuring of home-coming games, together with excellent new athletic equipment, field, and stadium—the gift of two loyal alumni—along with such other features as Davidson College Day, Stunt Night, etc., create a reason and desire for alumni to come back. It is a great source of satisfaction to the faculty, to the alumni secretary who has promoted the return idea, and to every member of the student body, to have the campus alive with old students. We know that with the passing years, you will love Old Davidson more and more, and that your love for her is only exceeded by that of the men now on the campus. We heartily welcome all visiting alumni.

F. L. JACKSON, Treasurer.

FROM THE STUDENT BODY

Our hearts are made glad this day to see so many of you old graduates returning to enjoy once more the associations and memories of your college days. Your return has made us more certain than ever that our college days at Davidson are not to be forgotten upon graduation, but that they are to serve as a source of pleasure and memories as long as we live. We welcome you back to the campus, Mr. Alumnus. We trust that you will find the college today in better condition than ever before. We hope that you will approve of the manner in which we are maintaining the old traditions, which you left to us as a heritage upon your graduation. We believe that this day among us will cement the ties between alumni, faculty, and undergraduates—and that you will leave us this day more determined than ever to make of Davidson the college it deserves to be. Welcome!

JAMES F. PINKNEY, President Student Body.

FROM THE Y.M.C.A.

Welcome home again. It is fine to see you here, and we hope that you will enjoy every minute of Home-coming Day. We hope you will find that Davidson has grown in spirit as well as in size, and that you have the same affection for the Davidson of 1926 as you had for the Davidson of your own years. Join us to make its future growth more certain, and to enable it to perform for others the same great service that we have received. May you find friendships old and new, a winning team, and the realization of many of your hopes for the college. We welcome you most heartily.

W. A. CHRISTIAN, JR., President Y.M.C.A.

FROM THE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION

Say, old timer, shake hands! Glad to see you back again. Was afraid you had forgotten us down here, now that you’re out battling with the cold, cold world—with maybe a family of your own to support. But, say, you mustn’t forget the great old family here at Davidson, of which you are as much a member as we, your younger brothers. Sorry I can’t stop to talk with you about the many improvements that have been made since you left us—but, we’ve got to get in uniform for the game. I hear Jake Wade and some of his colleagues of the Press have “doped” us to lose to Carolina this afternoon. Sounds bad, but say—you know those Wildcats. Glad to have you back today.

ERNEST F. BOHANNON, President Athletic Association.

FROM THE DAVIDSONIAN

A real Home-coming Day at last, and with enough doing to fill up next week’s paper in a jiffy. If for no other reason than that, we’d be glad to see you old fellows back amongst us. But, we’re glad you’re back for a lot more reasons—glad to see you interested in the great little Wildcat team, glad to see you interested in the improvements on our athletic field, glad to see you walking about over the campus and realizing again how much the college has done for us all. Of course, if you hadn’t come, the “livest wire on the hill” would have told you all about the big celebration and game next week—but, that’s too far away. And, anyhow, you came.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR., Editor.

Where Chambers’ Walls Stood

The Art of Bumming

I
The autumn glow now softly sleeps
Where Chambers’ walls have stood;
A slow wind, breathing gently, creeps
From out the soundless wood.

II
The yellow leaves now one by one
Fall idly to the sod,
Where four gray arms of aged stone
Point mutely up to God.

III
The requiem of the year is sung;
The summer’s breath grows chill;
And musing here, both heart and tongue,
By some strange power are still.

IV
For who, where those lone pillars tower,
Has paused in pensive mood,
Yet failed to sense a nameless power
Go thrilling thru his blood?

V
A spirit speaks from each bare stone
Of hopes that blossomed there;
And those scarred arms upraised, alone,
Shine with a radiance fair.

VI
No figured marble monument
Could voice more eloquence—
The deathless worth that faith has meant,—
Of life’s inconsequence.

VII
The vision of the years yet stands
Of those, who in the night
Have held the torch to other hands
Undimmed, a sacred light.

VIII
And shall we fail that hallowed faith,
Nor venerate that trust,
Although the dreams of their last breath,
Shattered, have come to dust?

IX
And, though a fairer flower arise
Upon that selfsame spot,
Shall that first beauty in our eyes
Be nameless and forgot?

X
Shall we who walk so lowly here,
So little prone to know
Of what is best, hold no more dear
Their heart’s first ardent glow?

XI
O rather, may we consecrate
Our strength, our life, our all
To lift that banner high, that hate
And littleness may fall!

XII
O rather, may those things abide,
The tried, the true, the good!—
The dream of those who lived and died
Where Chambers’ walls have stood!

—JAMES H. CALIGAN.

Because bumming is such a peculiarly delicate art, and because Davidson students are so largely dependent on that mode of transportation, the Davidsonian has decided to put into print—largely for the benefit of certain freshmen—the following brief codification of the ethics of bumming.

1. Never infringe upon a motorist’s hospitality by crowding upon him more students than he expected or than he is willing to carry.
2. To sit in a man’s car, as his guest, and make fun of him behind his back, is unpardonable.
3. If someone is on the road, looking for a ride, when you arrive, it is, to say the least, selfish and tactless to force your company upon him without an invitation. One man stands a hundred percent better chance of getting a ride than two.
4. It is not a slick trick to sneak around and take a position on the road above a man who was there before you were. It is both unethical and boorish.
5. Always remember that Davidson is being judged by your conduct.

Two baby girls were found living in a fowl den in India, according to a dispatch in a New York paper. That completely substantiates the charges by Mr. Cross, former University of Illinois student, that the girls are getting wilder and wilder.

Polo is a popular sport at the eastern colleges, but we believe it should be ruled off the American campus—there’s too much horse-play in it!