THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1926

Shingle Belles

Shingle belles, shingle belles,
Shingle all your hair;
Don't forget to wash your neck,
Or else don't leave it bare.
Shingle belles, shingle belles,
Right up to the dome,
Ain't it fun, the more you cut
The less you have to comb.

Hub—“Who was that little girl I saw you with last night?”
Bub—“That was no little girl. That was my wife since she’s had her face lifted.”

Our Suffering Language

Teacher—“Use statue in a sentence.”
Abie—“Ven I came in last night mine papa say ‘Statue Abie?’”

Houck—“I’m going rabbit hunting the first day after I get home for the holidays, and then I’m going to spend
the rest of the time hunting dears.”

Use Before Sending for a Doctor

For the sting of poison ivy, inject red pepper into the wound.
When bit by a rattler, cut off his tail and rattle for the doctor.
If chased by a bull, lie flat on the ground and when the bull runs over your body stick chestnut
burrs between your toes. He will limp on off and leave you alone then.
If you are chased by a skunk, make yourself look like a negro porter. He will know then that quarters
are needed and not cents, and will leave you alone.

99th Version

Queen Midas—“Who was that lady I saw you with last night?”
King Midas—“That wasn’t no lady. She's a gold statue this morning.”

Spoon River Anthology (Apologies to Mister Masters)

Here lies my wife, Sofia Proctor,
She ketched a cold and wouldn't doctor,
She couldn't stay, she had to go,
Praise God from whom all blessings flow.

Posing for the Photographer

“Don't look like you've lost a friend.” (Man is frowning).
“Now imagine you are reading a letter from your wife.” (Man still frowns).
“Aw, suppose the letter says your mother-in-law is sick.” (Man bursts into laughter).
“Hey, wait a minute. I said sick, not dead.”

Johnnie Fall—“Does your father know I love you?”
She—“No, he thinks you are awfully slow.”

Professor—“What kind of a dog is that, my little man?”
Boy—“He’s an air-tight dog.”
Prof—“Oh, you mean airedale don't you?”
Boy—“No sir. His mudder was an airedale, and his fadder was a Scotch terrier.”

Household Hints

Pickled peaches are packed in tin cans about as often as they are in glass jars.

Warning to Youth

Booze and tobacco
Killed druggist Fall;
He upset his pipe.

Fresh Math Again

The happiest years of my life were those I spent as a freshman.

©1927 [Mothers visit the club-house]

Camel

CAREFUL observation will reveal that men of quality demand quality in a cigarette—smoke Camels. A Camel smoker goes straight to
the point in cigarettes and demands enjoyment. For there are no better tobaccos or blending than you get in Camels.
There is no other cigarette taste and fragrance that can compare with Camels, because they are rolled of the choicest
Turkish and Domestic tobaccos grown. In a cigarette, as in the smoker, there is nothing that can substitute for quality.
If you want to know what experienced smokers like, just try Camels. Each year new millions try them all and
find in Camels enjoyment realized. Camels never tire the taste.quality of Camels, compare them with any cigarette made regardless of
price. **Have a Camel!” R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY. WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.

In the alcohol. ———_——.

Here lies a salesman named Phipps,
Who married on one of his trips
A woman named Block,
Then died of the shock,
When he learned there were six little chips.

Cross-eyed man (to a bunch of boys at the station)—“I'll give one of you fellows a dime to carry my
suitcase to the hotel.”
Tiss voices at once—“Which one of us?”
C. E. M—“You'll do.”
Bright young lad—“Say, mister, shut one eye and then tell us.”

Minister—(eulogizing the deceased at the funeral)—“My friends, all that remains here is the shell; the nut is gone.”

Wildcat

THE BEST

Dear Mr. Editor:
I had a letter from an old girl of mine inviting me to a party while her real sweetheart is
away. Everyone must take some flowers to the party. Can you suggest what kind would be most appropriate?
Yours for etiquette,
Bob McQueen.

Dear Mr. McQueen:
A white lily in each hand will answer the purpose.
Frankly, The Editor.

Jim Vaughn is expecting the entire population of his hometown to meet him at the train when he arrives for
the holidays. He says all five of them own automobiles.

Voice from upstairs—“Jane, it’s twelve o’clock. Please tell that young man to shut the front door from the outside.”

Not that we want to be pessimistic, but it’s only five more days till Christmas begins, and thirty-four till examinations.

Physics Prof.—“What’s the most common conductor of electricity?”
Leggette (hesitatingly)—“Why, er—”
Prof.—“That’s correct. Now what is the unit of power?”
Leggette (more bewildered than ever)—“The what, sir?”
Prof.—“That’s correct. The watt.”

Droopy Hudgins says it is not likely that the entire population of Bluefield will salute him when he goes home
for the holidays, but he sure knows one who will present arms.

A Scotchman was engaged to a girl who kept gaining weight in spite of her efforts to reduce. The girl’s
ugliness increased until finally Sandy wished to break the engagement. But she couldn’t get the ring off so he had
to marry her.

Little Johnnie (at menagerie)—“Mama, that monkey looks just like my daddy.”
Mother—“Johnnie, you ought to be ashamed of yourself.”
Johnnie—“But mother, the monkey can’t understand what I'm saying.”

Our Classified Ads

Pinnochle taught by expert. My lessons are practical—so bring money—I promise to send you home wiser after each lesson.
Jake L. Juniper.

For things necessary to modernize your fraternity home in your efforts to make it more electrical:
Stevens Electric Co.
213 N. Tryon St.

CREDENZA, $300.00
The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
Charlotte, N. C.
