THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

CLASS OF 1906

Following are the members of the Class of 1906:

Top row—left to right: J. H. VanLandingham, B. R. Smith, C. H. Watt, L. Y. Wilds, E. J. Erwin, J.
L. Adams, P. R. Brown, J. F. Coleman, W. E. Black, E. L. McColl, H. W. McKay, E. H. Henderson,
H. Irwin.

Third row: A. A. McLean, T. Stearnes, J. L. Moore, L. P. Kilgore, S. H. Hay, H. L. Cathey, W.
D. Johnston, Y. W. Faison, J. B. Denton, R. King.

Second row: A. Steele, W. T. Bailey, R. F. Smallwood.

First row: Anderson, B. R. Lacy, L. McNeill, C. B. Yeargan, E. T. McKeithan, A. P. Hassell, F. L. Jackson,
L. G. W. Miller, H. Torrence, K. E. Savage, D. S. Henderson, H. P. Taylor, J. L. Moore, J. G.

THE QUESTION BOX
By Uncle Bud

Literary Societies

Dear Uncle Bud,
I have an old hen that won't lay eggs except at night. What would you do in a case like
that? She cackles and keeps me awake.
Hebe Mcllwaine.

Friend Hebe,
Pull down your shade in the daytime and keep your light burning at night. This should work fine.
Uncle Budd.

Dear Unc,
When I holler Squads Right my boys do Squads Left. What can I do about it? I am afraid I
will get demoted if they don’t stop.
Your little friend, Jimmy Moore.

Dear Jim,
Fool 'em, kid. When you want them to go to the left holler squads right. It will work every time
till they catch on.
Your Uncle.

Dear Bud,
My roommate has halitosis. What can I do?
Wood Brown.

Dear Wood,
Feed him Blisterine in his eggnog. That will cure him.
Bud.

Dear Unc Bud,
How far is up?
Yours, Tom Anderson.

Dear Tom,
It all depends upon how low down you are.
Uncle Bud.

Dear Uncle,
My girl has kicked me, I am worried to death. What in the world can I do? I don’t want
to commit suicide because I won't be able to spend my life insurance. Please advise me.
A. Hayden Hollingsworth.

Dear Hay,
Buy a one-way ticket to Decatur, Ga., and buy out a florist shop on the way. You might visit a
jeweler’s on the way, too.
Uncle Bud.

Uncle,
I met a hot mamma at the Winnegar Works last Saturday night, but she wouldn't let me take her home.
What in the world would you do about that?
Bill Christian.

Dear Bill,
Go down there again, and when you see her do the old cave-man act. It works every time.
Uncle Bud.

Uncle,
I love a girl, her name is Sal; she’s nuthin’ but a pretty gal. But she don’t like the way
I neck; I’m going to shoot myself, by heck.
T. G. McCutchen.

McCutchen,
All you need is a little grit: Swallow some sand and begin to spit. If that don’t work go get
a gat and shoot a hole in her Easter hat.
Uncle Bud.

Eumanean Society

The Eumanean Society held its regular weekly meeting last Thursday night, and, although several members were absent, the program proved
very interesting. The declamation was given by Chalmers Davidson. The debate was on the query: “Should the Philippines be given
their immediate independence.” Mack King and F. M. Daniel took the affirmative side of the question and Riggs McConnell and
H. H. Roseberry took the negative side. Both sides were well developed and presented. The judges decided in favor of
the affirmative. In voting on the merits of the question, the house also decided in favor of the affirmative. The
meeting adjourned after a few remarks by the critic, in which he complimented those who took part on the program.

Metrophilian Society

Met Tuesday night with an unusually large number present. The regular business was disposed of first, and it was decided
to change the meeting night from 8:30 on Thursday to 7:15 on Tuesday. This was followed by an open discussion
on “Evolution,” with Camp O'Neal as first critic. This was a very interesting question which brought comment from all sides.
Charley McRae and D. F. Helm made strong arguments against it. Metrophilian is very active in intercollegiate debating circles. They
have two men on the team that debates Pittsburg and the same number on the team that will debate P.
C. Bob Grady also won the Fresh Declamation medal.

Philanthropic Society

Resolved: That the United States enter the World Court, was the question debated at Phi Hall last Thursday. R. F.
Hall and Tucker upheld the affirmative, and F. Hall and Jarmyn the negative. A vote of the house gave the
decision to the former. Very little business was transacted. It was voted to change the time of meeting back to
7:30 instead of 7:15 in order to give all the members an opportunity to get to the meeting on time.

Virginia Students Organize New Club

Last Thursday night the students from Virginia assembled at the Beta Theta Pi hall for a feed. The first business
of the evening was the election of officers. The following men were elected: R. L. Lincoln, president; W. L. McColgan,
vice-president; and C. R. Rowe, secretary and treasurer. Seventeen Virginia students were present at the meeting. President Lincoln urged the
members of the club to advertise Davidson in their home state and to endeavor to get more students from Virginia
to attend this school. It was pointed out that many students came from states south of North Carolina but only
a very few hailed from Virginia and other northern states. Following this discussion, refreshments were served and the meeting was
turned into a social gathering. Plans for a banquet in conjunction with the West Virginia Club and boys from other
northern states were discussed and approved. May 20th was set as a tentative date for this gathering.

Davidson Used to Have Beautiful Lake Located on Present Golf Course

“Lake Lure” Covered Fourteen Acres—Was Gift of Salisbury Trustee During the pastMonth there has been much agitation on the campus
in an endeavor to get a swimming pool. The college catalogue describes a prospective swimming pool in very glowing terms
but as yet no plan for its construction has materialized. This agitation recalls the fact that Davidson once possessed a
beautiful lake known as Lake Lure. This sheet of water was located on the golf course in the valley which
the third hole now occupies. The lake covered fourteen acres and was a gift to the college from S. H.
Wiley, Esq., of Salisbury, who was a trustee of the college. The students made contributions of labor and funds and
pledged themselves to work one afternoon a week on its construction. The college bought the land and additional acres for
the construction of a park about the lake. The dam was washed away three times in the first four years
of its existence. When the dam was destroyed for the last time, the College Magazine reported that Davidson had “a
broken dam by a lake site, but no lake by a dam sight.” The dam was rebuilt by the class
of 190. The class also built a toboggan slide which is the first recorded class gift. In 1909, sewage pipes
were run into the valley above the lake and it became necessary to drain it for sanitary reasons. The site
is now occupied by the golf course.

OLD GRADS (Continued from page 9)

You left the campus as green freshies or all-wise sophs. Men that you used to beat with a board; that
you used to make carry your wood and coal and fill your lamp. And then you will see other men,
who you will recognize as Old Bill Williams or Tom Jones, who used to make you do all those chores,
and kept you stepping. But above all, you will see that same old Davidson spirit that has ever been prevalent
here. That fighting spirit that has won victories for the Red and Black on the athletic field, on the debating
floor, and in all walks of life. It is this spirit that has won the title of “Wildcats” for the
athletic field. It is that spirit that has kept many a man from saying “die” when it looked for the
world like he was beaten, but has showed him that it only took that old fight and grit to put
his problem across. Why not come back up to the old campus and see for yourself that Davidson is all
that you dreamed of her, and that she is ever going forward, keeping abreast if not a bit ahead of
the leading colleges of the nation, and is the same old Davidson that made a man out of you.

The class of '26 is planning a unique commencement this year, and in view of the fact that several classes
have already planned reunions, the outgoing class is going to do all that it can to make the old men
feel at home. Make your plans to be here for the occasion. You will never regret it.

Davidsonian Will Put Out Special Issue in Recognition of R.O.T.C.

“Scabbard and Blade” Will Have Supervision of This Issue

On Wednesday, April 14th, The Davidsonian will publish a special issue for the military department. This edition will appear the
same day as the inspection by the War Department and will be given out at drill that day. The issue
will be under the direct supervision of the local chapter of Scabbard and Blade, National military fraternity, and Captain Elkins,
who has had wide experience in journalistic work, will also aid in the make-up of this issue. The Davidsonian that
week will contain a number of articles pertaining to military life, and also will have a number of special pictures.
Many advertisements concerning military goods, etc., will also appear at this time. Several extra copies will be sent to surrounding
military schools and colleges with distinguished ratings.

“Did you have the car out last night, Joe?”
“Yes sir; I took some of the boys for a ride.”
“Well, next time tell them not to leave their powder puffs on the back seat.”

“Goodness, the house is full of smoke. What's the matter?”
“I just heard Willie say he got Pittsburgh on the radio.”

When you and spring are thrilling to the opening game of the year—and your favorite player drives out a homer—as
the stands rock with cheering—have a Camel! Into the making of this one cigarette goes all of the ability of
the world’s expert tobacco men. Nothing is too good for Camel. The choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos. The most skilful
blending. No other cigarette made is like Camels. No better cigarette can be made. Camels are the overwhelming choice of
experienced smokers.

WHEN the first ball game is here. And the heavy hitter cracks the ball shrieking into deep center for a
home run—have a Camel! For Camel adds the magic of its own fragrance to life’s most festive days. Camels are
of such choice tobaccos that they never tire the taste or leave a cigaretty after-taste. You’ll get more contentment, more
pleasure out of Camels than any other cigarette. So this fair spring day as a redoubtable batter lofts out one
that it seems will never stop flying—oh, then, taste the smoke that means completed enchantment. Have a Camel! Our highest
wish, if you do not yet know Camel quality, is that you try them. We invite you to compare Camels
with any cigarette made at any price. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N.C.
