THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

College Medical Staff Has Been Working Here With Boys Many Years

All Sides of Student Life Observed in Eighteen Years Service

Back in the year 1908, when the enrollment of Davidson College was 150 students, Dr. J. W. MacConnell was appointed as college physician and Mrs. A. B. Robson as college nurse. Today, 18 years later, the enrollment of the college is 600 students, and Dr. MacConnell and Mrs. Robson are still acting in the same capacities, with only intermittent interruptions during the intervening years. Two thousand or more students have entered Davidson during this period of time, and of this number, there are but a small minority that have not or did not visit the college infirmary during the time they were at Davidson, coming in contact with Dr. MacConnell and Mrs. Robson for a brief period at least. Of the 2,500 students estimated to have entered Davidson since 1908, half of them have spent a brief time as the house guest of the infirmary. This conclusion is based upon the fact that during the school year 1924-1925, 370 of the 600 students enrolled at Davidson were confined to the infirmary for a brief time.

There are no two people during the past 18 years who are remembered more than Dr. MacConnell and Mrs. Robson, it is believed. They are true friends of the students, listening oftentimes to the plaintive, often disguised pleas of the students relative to their ailments. When Christmas time comes, the mails contain a bevy of Christmas greetings for both. Last Christmas, Mrs. Robson received hundreds of such missives, some of them from students graduated from Davidson 15 years ago.

The unending line of students linked together from a sum total of the sick calls for these many years has afforded each one a splendid opportunity to study human nature, and both Dr. MacConnell and Mrs. Robson relate many stories, anecdotes, and humorous skits of their contact with the students. “The students oftentimes think they're pulling something over on us, and perhaps leave the infirmary with a smile, but we know when a man is really sick,” said Dr. MacConnell, adding, “but we humor them sometimes.” Some few students are known to be chronic patronizers of the infirmary at almost every sick call, and the impression is given that these students are “riding” the doctor. But that is only conjecture.

“There are four men in Davidson College today,” said Dr. MacConnell, “who invariably report. It has become such a habit that oftentimes I step outside my office and ask for them. But these are men that ought not to be here. They possess both mental and physical hindrances. There is nothing to do but excuse them.” He picked out other men who have reported and drew equally as enlightening conclusions about them.

But the most interesting converser on human nature of students is Mrs. Robson, who comes in close contact with the students when they are confined. “Let a student stay in the infirmary four days and I can tell you his whole family history, what his home training has been and what he will amount to,” she has emphatically declared. She can prove it, too. Several years ago, a student entered Davidson and was unusually popular with fraternities. He was confined in the infirmary and during this time Mrs. Robson made the remark that she believed he was a boy who would not stick. Her prophecy came true. Another striking illustration is afforded by a 15-minute conversation she had with one student. When Dr. MacConnell entered a few minutes later, she declared to him that that boy would not be at Davidson three months. “You shouldn't be so hard on the boy after such a brief conversation,” said Dr. MacConnell. But she was right. Inside of three months, he had left Davidson.

Mrs. Robson has added her bit to the “making” of some of the students at Davidson. Knowing that a certain student had a fairly good average for his freshman year, she told him one day that there was no reason why he should not make Phi Beta Kappa and wear a key of that coveted fraternity. He heeded her advice, made the honor roll two years, and won the key. After the initiation ceremony was over, he came to the infirmary, put his arms around Mrs. Robson, kissed her, and told her that the Phi Beta Kappa key was hers, for she had been the cause of his winning it. He called his mother on the telephone and told her the part Mrs. Robson had played.

She does not pose as a speaker but every four years she makes a speech before the students at the Y. M. C. A. Mother’s Day service. It is the same talk that she has been giving for some time, with a few additions each year, and a few alterations.

The combination of Dr. MacConnell and Mrs. Robson is still working at Davidson today, but the possibility of dissolution is disclosed in the fact that Mrs. Robson is going to build a home in Davidson. She has two sons, Charles Robson, who teaches at the University of North Carolina, and Dr. George Robson, who is doing intern work at a Philadelphia hospital. Dr. MacConnell will perhaps remain in the service of the college for some time to come. He is rated as one of the leading physicians of the South and ranks high as a medical officer in the army, carrying the title of colonel. He has been made commander of general hospital No. 95, located at Columbia, S. C., which is a government hospital to be used in case of emergency.

DAVIDSON PLAYERS AID (Continued from page 9)

The leading part was assisted by Linton Deck, Frank Wilkinson, and Misses and Elizabeth Thompson. Professor and Mrs. E. J. Erwin accompanied as chaperones. The program was one that included both popular, jazz, comedy, and semi-serious numbers. The first part included aNumber of solos and choruses, quartets, and other special musical selections. Watt McCain, ’24, who now lives in Lexington, was one of the shining lights of the musical program. A well-trained chorus of pretty girls did an excellent exhibition of the ever-popular Charleston. After the play, which took up the third part of the program, a mock trial was held by some of the most prominent citizens of the town. Although it was ponderous as lawyers’ talk itself, it was screamingly funny. The jury was composed of Kiwanians and the Rotarians who sponsored the performance.

Ruth Erwin Glee Club Appears at Gastonia High

Tuesday evening, the Glee Club appeared at Davidson College in Gastonia under the auspices of the Parent Teachers’ Association of the Gastonia High School. An excellent performance was given at the High School auditorium. A large crowd was present and declared the performance a great success. The club left Davidson Tuesday afternoon and returned Tuesday night after the performance. Practically all the members of the club who were on the tour made the trip. However, the presence of a few members on the sick list was greatly missed. With a few additions, the club presented the same program that was given on the southern tour recently completed. The quartette was especially in top-notch form as it sang several days last week at the Imperial Theatre, adding a few of the latest song hits to its repertoire.

The Glee Club has just recently returned from a tour of the Southland where it was received in all the cities in which it played most enthusiastically. While on the trip, the club journeyed to Spartanburg, Gainesville, Atlanta, Decatur, and Greenville. A probable trip has been arranged for the club to go to Concord sometime in the near future. After this trip, a tentative trip is being planned to Lincolnton and Lexington.

Ideal Man Chosen For Fair Visitors

This story does not pertain to a horse but to a man. We seek to find the ideal man for the Junior Speaking girl. The following is a composite pick of all the Massive and Apollos who hail from the class of ’27.

Height—3 feet.
Sex—Male.
Color—Not yellow.
Hair—Two or three.
Eyes—Black and blue.
Neck—Clean.
Hands—Poker anywhere.
Slender or robust—No bust.
Feet—St. Bernard’s.
Teeth—False.
Ears—Cauliflower.
Trousers—Knickerbockers a la mode.
Breath—May.
Cosmetics—Listerine, Mennen’s.
Socks—Let ’em sag.
Shirt—We hope so.
Ties—Necking.
Nose—Phantom of the Opera.
Profile—Corrugated.

If the above gentleman had any worse construction, all of their fair visitors would exit on the spot, so we forbear to print some of his other characteristics which were submitted. There will be little difficulty in finding a number of gentlemen on the campus to fulfill the qualifications. Anyone thinking that he can qualify as an applicant for this position may obtain engagements through the Ugly Man Agency of the David’s Onion.

Quartet Sings at Queen City Theatre

Serving as an additional feature on the program of the Imperial Theater in Charlotte for three days during the past week, the quartette of the Glee Club received much favorable comment on their performance. The group of musicians were G. Wilson, J. S. Foster, W. O. Green, and D. M. Calhoun, the regular members of the quartette of the club. The men sang songs appropriate to the feature picture, “Behind the Front,” starring Wallace Beery. This war cinema has proved to be one of the biggest hits in a humorous line of the present season. The quartette also appeared at the two-night shows of the Imperial and will sing at the picture house in Mooresville.

OLE GEORGIA

History of Famous Dormitory Related

The above is a picture of Georgia Dormitory, formerly the center of student activity at Davidson, and the supreme domicile of the campus. It has housed the finest products of Davidson College and many prominent Southerners among its former inhabitants. At the time of its construction, Rumple and Watts were the only suitable dormitories on the campus and were entirely inadequate for college needs. The Synod of Georgia launched a campaign and raised the money for its construction. At the time of its building, it was considered the acme of dormitory construction. Its special feature was running water in every room. Since that time of construction, modern dormitories have been built which have antiquated old Georgia. The New Watts, East, and Watts are considered the best dormitories on the hill at present. Nevertheless, Georgia still houses a majority of the campus leaders. These are too numerous to write in detail, but three Phi Beta Kappa members, four members of Omicron Delta Kappa, five student councilmen, the president of the Y.M.C.A., and many of the Senior class are included in their numbers. From the above, it can be concluded that Georgia still remains the supreme archon of dormitories.

Interesting Relic Left of Old Medical School

Remains of Boiling Vat Lies Below Athletic Field

An interesting relic of the Davidson of a generation ago is the boiling vat. It is almost the only remains of the medical school which was here, and which so many of the leading doctors of the South attended. It lies south of the athletic field, halfway between it and the home of Mayor Hamilton. Only about four feet wide and eight feet long, with the edges broken off and fallen, it would be a sorry spectacle were it not for the touches which imagination gives it. Who knows how many bodies have been boiled there, how many flesh-bare skeletons have been taken out after a day or two of cooking. Filled first with alcohol, it was loaded with as many as three corpses, which were then boiled so that skeletons could be secured. The dissecting house, which was torn down when Davidson decided to abolish the post-graduate work in medicine, was by it. All its bricks have been removed so that no trace of it remains, but the vat seems not to have been touched. Years from now, all memory of the medical college will probably be forgotten, and this small mound of bricks will be all that is left of the time when medicine rivaled theology here.

It has been several years since the medical department was done away with, but while it was here, it ranked with the best in this part of the country. As has been said, many distinguished doctors graduated from this school, and the medical professors here were of the best. In one sense, it seems a shame that the medical school had to be given up, but the authorities thought it best to specialize in one line, namely, theology, and to lead in that department, as Davidson has done for many years.