THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1926

Dr. Ogden Speaks On “A High Way and a Low”

On Monday evening Dr. Ogden spoke to the students on the subject, “A High Way and a Low.” “Every man
must make the choice,” said he. In every man’s life there comes a time in which he must choose the
road which he will follow. There is a high road and a low. Some men follow the high one, others
follow the low one, and in the misty plains between, the crowds float around, drifting to and fro. The speaker
chose his text from the 13th chapter of Deuteronomy, “Therefore choose life.”

A great physician once said that he thought the Bible was a good book because it showed that man was
feeling after God. “That's just what it isn’t,” said the speaker. “This Book is God’s feeling after man.” There is
one great way. In one direction it points toward the heights of heaven and light. In the other, it points
to the depths of hell and darkness. The main question is: Which way is your face turned? The man who
believes in God may be no better morally than the one who does not. But he is pointed toward the
light while the other one is pointed toward the darkness, and no one can stand still. Everyone must move in
one direction or the other. So the speaker again asked, “Which way is your face turned?”

There is a time in the morning and in the evening when the light is the same. But they point
in different ways. In the morning, the dawn is a forerunner of the day while in the evening the twilight
is a forerunner of darkness. The main thing is which way is the man headed. Some people have the idea
that they are rotting only when they are going to pieces. That is not true. The finer things go first:
The strings in the piano will break before the walls crumble. The flower in the pot will die before the
pot crumbles. So in human life, the finer things go first. Those spiritual things, the belief in the finer touches
of religion, will go before the rest of the body.

Dr. Ogden told of how he had been so proud of some new boots when he was a boy. But
should boots always be the first aim of a man’s life? Progress is the aim of life. One must look
toward the stars. And the question is not only “Which way are you looking,” but “Which way are you leading
the world? Upward or downward?”

“Christianity is not a theory,” said the speaker, “It is a life, a way toward God.” Mr. Munsey died not
long ago and left his millions to the world. A great banquet was held in his honor just before his
death and in the course of the event, the crowd passed the window. He asked the question, “What does it
all mean?” He was living worthily, but he did not keep in touch with the younger generation. A mother stakes
her life in the future, so she meets it with courage. During a drive to make Atlanta a better city,
a millionaire spent thousands of dollars trying to help in the work. A trained nurse freely flung her body into
the service of God for humanity until she contracted a dreadful disease which wasted her body. On her tombstone are
these words, “Greater love hath no man than this, that he lay down his life for his friends.” A minister
of the Gospel spent his life trying to live as God would have him live, and trying to show Jesus
to the world. He helped in the work of making Atlanta a better place to live in. One day he
lost his life in answering a call from a woman in a tenement house in the city. All three of
these had stakes in the future. They wanted to help the world to know Christ. They had a love for
humanity and a desire to lead the world along the road of light.

“The question for a man to face,” said Dr. Ogden, “is ‘What can I do to make the world a
better world?’” “Don't drift,” he urged. “Go into your life-work called of God.” He closed with an appeal for the
men to study the question and to choose life. The Columbia Seminary Quartet sang, and Mr. Dendy, one of the
members of this quartet, led the singing.

SCORERS

Anderson (guard) 140
Laird (forward) 132
Huie (forward) 25
Wilson (center) 23
Hewlette (guard) 21
Harrison (guard) 457

STATE HERE FRIDAY

The Wildcat Grapplers are scheduled to meet N. C. State at Davidson on Friday at 7:30. These two teams are
doped to be pretty evenly matched and the meet promises to be full of action and not a walk-away for
either team. The eliminations took place Tuesday and Wednesday. The line-up that started the last meet will probably be the
same for this meet with State. The next two meets will be with Duke and the Navy on the Navy
trip. The probable line-up for Friday is as follows: 118 — Frierson; 128 — Barrington; 138 — Davis; 148 —
Cox; 158 — Crinkley; 175 — Vance; heavyweight — Mauldin.

Last Lyceum Gives Humorous Program

The fourth and last number of the Lyceum course, conducted by the Junior class, will be presented tonight in Shearer
Hall at 7:30. “The Frazers,” humorist entertainers, as this number of the Lyceum is called, promises to be the best
of the series of shows that have been shown from time to time during the past fall and winter. The
Frazers have built their program about the idea that variety is the spice of life—songs, sketches, impersonations, comic dialogues, and
readings contribute to the rich store of variety upon which this versatile company makes limitless demand. These character entertainers and
musicians, without leaving the platform, can costume as a feeble old man, an Irish paddy, an Italian, an Indian, a
Jew, a Chinaman, an Englishman, and several other world-famous character types. This number of the Lyceum was secured through the
Piedmont Bureau of Asheville. The admission charge will be 50 cents.

Charles Norfleet Will Speak Sunday

Mr. Charles M. Norfleet, of Winston-Salem, will be the speaker at next Sunday's vespers. Mr. Norfleet is an interesting speaker
and is intimately connected with the life of a church. He is a big layman in the Presbyterian Church, being
on the Stewardship Committee. As a member of the State Committee of the Young Men's Christian Association, he has done
active work along that line. In business life, he is one of the most outstanding men of his city, being
vice-president and treasurer of the firm of Froeber and Norfleet, a large wholesale merchandise establishment. Probably Mr. Norfleet’s most Christian
work has been done in connection with the Men's Evangelistic Club of Winston-Salem. This club is one of the Billy
Sunday Clubs of the South, having been formed after the Billy Sunday meetings there last spring. It is divided into
ten teams, scattered over the city, each having at its head a president, vice-president, and a secretary and treasurer. Mr.
Norfleet, as president of theClub holds very in- on of is one of active that office over the officers of
the ten teams. Each team, composed on the average of eighty-five men, sends out representatives each Sunday to nearby places
where Sunday School and Church is held, and at any other specified times. One of the most successful revivals any
of the teams had occurred in the mountains last summer, where a deputation had been sent, at which time over
one hundred people were converted. The club, as a whole, under Mr. Norfleet's leadership, has accomplished great good in Christian
work, and still greater results are expected. Mr. Norfleet is a very good friend of Davidson College, and has helped
it in many ways. It is earnestly desired that all the students on the Hill for this weekend will be
in attendance, as the speaker is sure to come with a real message.

William and Mary has devised a form of recreation that will employ the mind while resting it. This form is
found in the old game of checkers. The Y. M. C. A. has begun an elimination contest in order to
determine the champion. It is not stated whether a challenge from any other college will be accepted or not, but
the champ-to-be is very much the recent Life-Work Services.

Social Center Provided by Y.M.C.A. for Students
First Time in History of College That Students Have Had Access to Such

For the first time in the past decade, the officers of the student Y. M. C. A. were able to
place a central hall at the disposal of a visiting preacher for use in conference with the students, Dr. Dunbar
H. Ogden using the new “Y" social room for that purpose. This is one of the many uses that the
leaders of the “Y” are planning to put the new hall, which is now complete save for a few matters
of interior decorating.

There has been a crying need for a center of the social life at Davidson for many years. The parlors
of East, West, and Watts have not met with the approval of the students as a place to entertain guests.
The “Y," attempting to solve this problem, has furnished the hall formerly occupied by the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. The
location of the Phi Hall is very advantageous. The purpose of this hall is to give all Davidson men a
place to entertain guests. It has been rightly named the “Y" Social Hall and all Davidson men are expected to
take advantage of the opportunity afforded by this hall as a place to loaf and entertain their friends. This hall
will contain several periodicals and magazines that are not to be found in the library, but it is not to
be a reading room, rather a center for the social life at Davidson. During Junior Speaking, the committee on entertainment
is planning to make this the center of the social life. Many boys have asked girls up and others are
going to do the same as this hall will solve the problem of a place to entertain her in. This
hall has been fixed for the students and the “Y” is hoping that the boys will make use of it.

FRESHMAN WRESTLING
The Freshman Wrestling Squad is working hard getting in shape for their first meet of the year, which will be
with Winston-Salem High School sometime this week. There is a good number of men on this squad and they are
expected to show some real stuff in their first meet. While the line-up has not yet been decided, it will
probably be as follows: 118—Flythe Carrington; 128—Harrell or Creech; 138—Herriot; 148—King or Bailey; 158—Hill; 175—Harper; heavyweight—Regan.

TRUSTEES STRESS IMMEDIATE COLLECTION
(Continued from page 1)

years pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church and for some time an assistant professor in the Department of Bible, as
full-time professor in that department. If Dr. Richards should accept the appointment it will be necessary for him to give
up his pastorate for the work of the college. Another important change is the transfer of Prof. W. L. Porter
from the chair of biology to the chair of geology, at his own request, the board electing Scott C. Lyon,
now at the University of Chicago, as professor of biology. Prof. C. K. Brown was elected as assistant professor of
economics and G. B. Watts, from the University of Minnesota, as associate professor of French. The fifth elective was Henry
T. Lilly to the department of English.

Work on Annual is Now in Last Stage
The Quips and Cranks staff has announced that all work is about completed, and the annual will be in the
hands of the printer in less than ten days. All pictures are now ready for the press, as the last
ones were taken on Friday. Mr. Shuford, the photographer, made a special trip to Davidson and took the wrestling, basketball,
and other group pictures. The annual is expected to come from the press earlier than it has ever done heretofore.
In past years, it has been delayed until late in the summer months. However, the 1926 annual will be given
to the subscribers by May 10th. This is due to the praiseworthy work of the editor-in-chief, Buck Shaw, and the
entire staff, who have worked very diligently. L. I. Deck, the business manager, also announces that the annual will be
a financial success.

A committee was appointed to present definite plans at the June meeting of the board relative to the age for
retirement of faculty members of Davidson College, the allowance to be given them, and other matters relative to retirement. There
were thirty-one members of the Board of Trustees present at the meeting. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the board,
and Dr. William J. Martin, president of Davidson College, both expressed their satisfaction with the results of the meeting.

The number of first-class poets in this country is decreasing, a University professor has discovered. Still, there are some pessimists
who say that the world is not getting better.

When it’s a rainy night—and with three crafty bridge players your luck is running wild—have a Camel! Camels represent the
utmost in cigarette quality. The choicest of Turkish and Domestic tobaccos are blended into Camels by master blenders and the
paper is made especially for them. Into this one brand is concentrated all of the knowledge, all of the skill
of the world’s largest organization of expert tobacco men.

© 1926

When the dark skies are pouring rain and fickle fate deals you hands at bridge that you play with consummate
skill—have a Camel! For Camel is the silent partner that helps every deserving player win his game. Camels never hurt
or tire the taste, never leave a trace of cigaretty after-taste. Regardless of the gold you spend, you'll never get
choicer tobaccos than those rolled into Camels. So this evening as you ply your unerring skill, evoke then the mellowest
fragrance that ever came from a cigarette. Have a Camel!

Our highest wish, if you do not yet know Camel quality, is that you try them. We invite you to
compare Camels with any cigarette made at any price.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
