THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1926

Southern Railroad Will Spend Four Million Dollars—Winston to Charlotte Line Among Those Improved

Announcement by the Southern Railway that four million dollars will be spent for improvements on six of its southern lines
is of interest to Davidson in that one of these lines runs through the town. The Winston-Salem to Charlotte branch
of the Southern system is one of the six that will be improved. One thousand miles of the system will
be constructed to provide better passing facilities and strengthened roadways. The structures will be strengthened to permit the use of
heavier and more powerful locomotives.

The Greensboro News of February 28th carries the following item from the Associated Press at Atlanta: "The improvements between Winston-Salem
and Charlotte will give an alternate line of heavy capacity between Greensboro and Charlotte." It is not known as yet
whether the change will affect the passenger service through Davidson or not.

Alumni Notes

W. B. Knox, '18, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Cooleemee, N. C.
John McCrummen is teaching at Vass High School, at Vass, N. C.
Rev. H. R. Fleece holds a pastorate at Statesboro, Ga.
Roy W. Morrison, '16, is a post-graduate student at the University of North Carolina.
John M. Adams, '23, is taking medical work at Jefferson College.
W. G. Hodgin, ex '27, is in business at Raleigh, N. C.
W. Z. Bradford, '24, is preparing for Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania.

Town News

Mrs. Hall of Wilmington has been visiting Mrs. A. Currie during the past week.
The Music Club met with Mrs. T. W. Lingle on Tuesday, March 2. A very delightful program on Macdowell was
given.
Mrs. Brady, Sigma Delta house mother, has been called to Greensboro due to her daughter's illness.
Miss Estelle Kirby, of Spartanburg, S. C., spent the weekend with Sgt. and Mrs. J. L. Kirby.

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant, 17 S. Tryon St.
The Best Places to Eat
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Ancient Photos of Davidson Campus Reveal Many Buildings Now Removed

Of the above pictures, only one is familiar to the present student body, and that one is at the top.
It is a picture taken from an old print of the two literary society halls, Elm Row, and the Old
Chapel. Just beyond the Philanthropic Hall, which is the one on the right, may be seen Elm Row and another
building, which was once the home of Professor Patrick Jones Sparrow, one of the three who composed the first faculty
of this institution. This building was removed.In 1901, some of the materials were used in the building of the present
chapel, Shearer Hall. The small houses beyond the Society Hall, Oak and Elk Rows, were, with another, the three dormitories
at the founding of this college. They had four rooms each, and four students to a room. The remainder of
the sixty-five stayed at the Steward’s Hall, which is the center picture. It was of brick and stood just west
of the present library, facing toward the south. All public gatherings were held here, including morning and evening prayers, Sunday
services, and the meetings of the trustees.

All semi-annual services were held in the dining room in which the students all ate. This venerable center of campus
life was torn down in the summer of 1909. The bottom picture is that of the old chapel, the cornerstone
of which was laid April 7, 1839, but which was not finished until the fall of 1837. It faced to
the south, having an entrance similar to the Phi Society Hall. The seats were straight board benches, and the pulpit
was in the northern end, while the choir was in one corner of the southern end. There was a hall
downstairs, running east and west, from which branched off four classrooms, some of which are in use today. All of
these formed the quadrangle, from which the faculty club is named, for the purpose of keeping up the traditional name
of that section of campus.

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY

The Philanthropic Literary Society met for a very short meeting on Thursday evening; the meeting was cut short so the
members might attend the lyceum concert, so the regular debate was dispensed with. B. U. Rachford discussed the Congressional Plan
Programs which will be inaugurated at the next meeting, the first bill for discussion to be on the Air Program.
The new officers of the executive division were installed and the reports of the past term officials were given. The
installation of the minor officers was postponed until the next meeting, a large number of the men holding these offices
being away on the Glee Club trip.

CHAMPION Electric Shoe Fixery
*YOUR SHOES FIXED BETTER*
Between White Drug Company and post office
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Mooresville, N. C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies

Prince Albert Tobacco Advertisement

Before you even look for the jack or tire, wad a bit of Prince Albert into the muzzle of your
jimmy-pipe. Light up and get yourself in the frame of mind where a flat tire is "all in the day’s
work." Talk about a gloom-chaser! Its cool, soothing smoke percolates into your system, the sun chases the clouds, and everything
is indeed great. Fellows, Prince Albert is in the fly-leaf of your thesaurus: P. A. can’t bite your tongue or
parch your throat, no matter how hard you hit it up. The Prince Albert process flunked Bite and Parch on
their first examination. Get a tidy red tin of P. A. now and see.

PRINCE ALBERT — no other tobacco is like it! P.A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound
tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by
the Prince Albert process.
