THEDAVIDSONIAN > Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 25, 1926 No. 20

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Davidson Quint Returns to Hill After Losing to Carolina, State and Duke

Duke Evens Score for Davidson’s Early-Season Win

STATE 35—Davidson 19

Davidson and Duke Play Extra Period As Methodists Win 32-30

Coach Monk Younger brought his defeated band of Wildcats back to the Hill Wednesday afternoon following three successive losses to the crack basketball quints of North Carolina University, North Carolina State, and Duke University. The team left Saturday morning for Raleigh, where it was handed a 35-19 score by the fast Tech quint that night, State winning for the second time of the season over the Wildcats. Duke was able to nose out by one field goal in an extra-period game Monday night. The expected victory of the championship team of the University of North Carolina became a slaughter of the Wildcats as the Davidson team went down 53-18 in the Tin Can at Chapel Hill Tuesday night.

This brought to an end the Wildcat games away from home, and closed the second unsuccessful trip for Davidson. Through South Carolina, the Davidson quint had roamed to win from Furman University and lose by one and two-point margins respectively to Wofford and Clemson Colleges. Only one game remains for the Wildcats, that with the wonder team from Citadel here Saturday night.

The three games, as recorded by the North Carolina papers, with slight changes, follow:

The Tar Heels turned loose an irresistible attack in the last half of the game with Davidson Tuesday night and swamped the Wildcats under a 53 to 18 score. Celebrating their final game on the tin can court before their departure for Atlanta and the Southern Conference tournament, the Carolina quint piled up their biggest score of the season. The two teams passed the ball around for (Continued on page 7)

LAST GAME SATURDAY

Saturday night the varsity Wildcats close their season by meeting the strong Citadel quintet. The Cadets boast of an exceptionally strong team this year, being one of the strongest combinations in the S. I. A. A., and having been defeated by but one South Carolina team. In Weeks and Douglas, the Wildcats meet a fast pair of forwards; Weeks having been named on several all-Southern teams last year, and both having attracted much attention by their spectacular playing this year.

Sigma Pi Sigma to Bring Lafferty to Talk on X-Ray

Dr. R. H. Lafferty, a widely-known expert on X-ray, will give a lecture on his experiences with X-rays at 7:30 o'clock Tuesday evening, March 2nd, in Shearer Hall. He will be here under the auspices of the Sigma Pi Sigma honorary physics fraternity, and will speak especially to the members of that fraternity. Realizing that this will be one of the most interesting lectures of the year, the Sigma Pi Sigmas have been good enough to throw the meeting open to all, and to have Dr. Lafferty speak in Shearer Hall. Everyone is invited, and an interesting hour is promised to any who care to attend.

Dr. Lafferty graduated from Davidson in 1899. While here, he was an assistant in physics. For several years he attended the North Carolina Medical College. After he had practiced medicine for several years and had become established as a physician, he taught at the North Carolina Medical College until it united with the Richmond Medical School at Richmond, Virginia. Then he was made head of the X-ray department of (Continued on page 3)

Glorious Festivity in Charlotte as Sophomores Observe Annual Banquet

The Sophomore Class held its annual banquet last Saturday evening at the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce. The banquet, which is the climax of the Sophomore year, proved to be a success throughout. Caldwell Withers, acting as toastmaster, presented a varied program which featured the occasion. The Chamber of Commerce chefs served a delicious banquet which, coupled with the program, made the event one of hilarity and mirth throughout.

The Grand Entre took place at 6:30, and after the invocation by Professor Foreman and a few remarks by the toastmaster, dinner was served. The menu was attractive, ranging from oyster cocktail to pie a la mode with all of the accompanying embellishments. The dining hall had been beautifully decorated with gold and blue streamers and class numerals. During the latter part of the meal, three toasts were presented by Witt Hancock, Boyce Martin, and W. L. Lingle, to the three most prominent women of the day: the Holeproof Hosiery Girl, Maggie, and Prudence Church. Following this, the toastmaster took the floor and introduced Bob McMillan as the first speaker of the evening. In a few brief words, he stated his appreciation of being invited to the banquet and that he wished that he might be back at Davidson with the class. Olin Nisbet, the class president, gave a short talk, giving a brief history of the class and expressing the desire that it might be as successful in the future as it has been in the past. At this point, Coach Tilson was called on for an impromptu speech. The class of twenty-eight, he said, had more successful athletes than any other class in school. However, he said, there are many undeveloped athletes in the class and he urged more of the members to go out for the varsity teams. A. M. Hillhouse, the Y. M. C. A. secretary at Davidson, gave what was perhaps the most appreciated talk of the evening. He chose for his subject, “Not Ice Cream Nor Jersey Milk.” He did not know what he could talk about, he said, but he did know that the two things mentioned in the subject were ones which he could not talk about. In his youth, he had had a perfect knowledge of Jersey milk to such an extent that he considered paradise as a “place flowing with Jersey milk and Georgia honey with streets of golden butter and houses of cream cheese.” After endeavoring for ten minutes to find something which he could talk about, he decided that it was an impossibility, and brought his speech to a close with a short elegy to those who have recently left the ranks of the class. Joe Ellis, a Charlotte boy, was to have given at this point what was termed as the Paris Island Marine Wiggle. Due to unavoidable circumstances, he was unable to attend, however. Bob Miller gave a talk on class activities (Continued on page 3)

Glee Club Adds Short Play by Fred Smith to Program Before Leaving

Club Left on Annual Tour Tuesday —Will Return in Ten Days

JUNIOR SMOKER SOON

The Junior class will have its first social meeting of the year Thursday night, March 4th. This gathering will be in the nature of a smoker and will in all probability be held at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel. The purpose of the smoker, as announced by leading members of the class, is to get the men together socially before Junior Speaking and to discuss plans already made and to formulate additional ones. Mack Austin is in charge of the program.

Tuesday morning the Davidson College Glee Club started on its annual Southern tour, and before returning to Davidson will give concerts in Spartanburg, Greenville, Beaufort or Toccoa, Atlanta, Decatur, and Charlotte, as previously announced in their schedule. The club will enjoy the privilege of broadcasting from Station WSB, of the Atlanta Journal, while in Atlanta. A novel feature added to the Glee Club is its incorporation of the Dramatic Club for its Southern tour. This latter club will fill a long-felt need of some form of entertainment between acts of the Glee Club, and will entertain the audiences by a one-act farce entitled Radio Activity, written by Frederick Smith. The scene of this play is in the broadcasting station FOB Detroit, and a lively program is given from this station. The personnel and program of the play is as follows:

RADIO ACTIVITY
By Frederick Smith

Queens Players to Appear in Shearer on First of March

The Queens College Dramatic ClubWill Fred Smith appear in Shearer Hall on Monday, March? Teller Gabriel Snubbers, announcer Miss Iva Static, bedtime story Dillard 1st. The Davidson students will be especially lucky in having this opportunity to see this Isaac Smigglebeison, Scottish philanthropist; Bill Green, Cy Perkins, Swain, Brutus Q. Jones (Colored), Algernon Hootch. The title of the play will be “Mr. Bob.” The play is a laugh-a-minute comedy with the characters of almost equal importance. There will be an additional attraction in the fact that the “men are girls.” The cast is: Dean Wey, Philip Roysen, Ama Johnson, Noel Walker, Ethel Braswell, Pauline Owen, bandmaster Gordon, Me hip-rowring, Dick Flinn, John Foster. 

Alumni Association to Aid College Activities
Dr. Rowan Writes Letter to Alumni Asking for Funds

Robert Brown Jenkins, Rebecca Luke, Katherine Rogers—Minnie Silverstein, Marion Bryant—Sarah Ross, Patty—Dolly Moore. The Davidson students are especially lucky. Dr. Jesse C. Rowan, president of the Davidson College Alumni Association, has just recently mailed out letters to all the alumni in securing this performance. The College Dramatic Club is widely known over the Carolinas and will doubtless be well attended. He terms it “The Loyalty Fund.” In the letter, he states that all contributions to this fund will be distributed among each of three needs, one-third to go to each cause. One of the greatest needs of the college is an alumni secretary; another need is providing for the professors an opportunity to travel, and a third need is a greater provision for athletics. These, he says, are the three causes to which the alumni are asked to contribute. The idea originated at a meeting of the alumni on October 30th and has just been put into a definite plan, known as “The Loyalty Fund.” There is no definite amount set for any of the alumni to contribute; it is all voluntary, and each year the alumni will have the opportunity of again making a contribution. The plan is based upon that used by Harvard, which derives a great income for the institution.

Dr. Rowan’s letter follows in part:
“One of the recognized, admitted outstanding needs of Davidson College is an alumni secretary. An alumni secretary, among other things, would keep Davidson College and her alumni linked up, organize alumni associations, and help in inducing young men of the highest type, morally, intellectually, and physically to enter Davidson College. Another great need of Davidson College is providing for her professors an opportunity to travel and to get that widened vision and cultured advantage which can come in no other way. These advantages have come already to a few of the Davidson professors through the effort and liberality of a few. Another need of Davidson College is a greater provision for athletics, both intercollegiate and collegiate. Maintaining a high standard in athletics as well as a high standard in other respects is imperative.”

“Ships” was the subject of Dr. Dunbar H. Ogden's address before the students at the vesper service Sunday evening. The text on which his remarks were based was James 3:4, “Behold also the ships.” Man and his journey through life were compared to a commission ship and its voyage. In the concluding sentences of his talk, Dr. Ogden summed up the preceding thought by saying, the essential part of a ship is the steel; of man, moral character. As the boilers furnish the power for the ship, man, if he is to furnish power for the world, must be willing to get down and serve the lowest of humanity. The bridge of a ship is occupied solely by the captain. The bridge of the human ship must be reserved for Jesus Christ alone. A ship must have a port, a man a goal in life. The building of a ship is a triumph of cooperation, the speaker said. Every part must be made by a different workman. It is a long process and the greater the ship the longer it takes to build it. The training of the child and young person is analogous to this. It must be done carefully and is very important. If some part of his character is not strong it will fail when the storms of life are met. The building of the ship corresponds to the molding of character. When the ship is finished it is launched and set out upon new tasks. In life, there are several launchings. One comes at college graduation, another at death. Dr. Ogden said that he thought that at death man was merely taken up to perform new duties and service for his Lord. The steel holds a ship together. If it fails in a storm all is lost. Man must hold himself close to God. The word “religion” means to bind back. A religious man binds himself fast to his Maker. The boilers are the real power of the ship. They are inconspicuously placed in the hold and seldom seen by the passengers, but they furnish the real motive power. Men who would furnish the power for a needy world may have to live as inconspicuously as the boilers. They may be called on to serve the lowest of humanity, but they will know that through them God is furnishing real spiritual power. There is a call for boiler-room men. The thirty men graduating from the Union Theological Seminary this spring have already received over two hundred calls between them. The bridge from which the ship is commanded has no crowds on it but the captain alone stands there. Man must not be governed by the crowd. He must not listen to the excuse, “everybody's doing it.” Chaos would result from such ruling. Jesus Christ alone should stand on the bridge, for He can pilot the human bark through the sea of life safely and successfully. All but ships of pleasure have ports to which to sail. A ship without a port is of no service. A ship always sails from the port of plenty to the port of need.

Trustees Stress Immediate Collection of Pledges on Chambers Building Fund

Semi-Annual Meeting Considers Doctor Kelly’s Report
FACULTY ENLARGED
Doctor Richards Elected Head of Bible Department—Enlargement to Temporary Building

The Board of Trustees of Davidson College met in semi-annual session on February 11th, at Davidson, following a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Board, in Charlotte, N.C. the afternoon before. The board considered the problem of completion of the New Chambers building; elected five new members to the faculty; appointed a committee to present plans providing for the retirement of professors; and heard the report of Dr. Robert H. Kelly relative to Davidson College in the several phases of its work. Dr. Kelly, executive secretary of the Association of American Colleges, has been making an extensive study of the college during the past few months and his report to the board comprised his estimate of the administration, the curriculum, the financial problem of the college, and student life and activities. His report and suggestions for the future development of Davidson College were received with much interest and a committee including five trustees from the board and five members of the faculty was appointed to consider the report further. Emphasis was laid upon the fact that $125,000 must be raised by March 15th to match $75,000 set aside by the General Education Board of New York. Means of accelerating the payment of pledges in the $600,000 campaign were discussed. Inadequacy of equipment because of the non-completion of the New Chambers building led the board to authorize President Martin to erect an addition to the temporary building, now housing both the Biology and Physics departments in very crowded quarters. The feature of the election of new faculty members for the coming year was the appointment of Dr. C. M. Richards.

“Shadows” and “Ships” are Themes of Doctor Ogden’s Impressive Services

The steel holds a ship together. If it fails in a storm all is lost. Man must hold himself close to God. The word “religion” means to bind back. A religious man binds himself fast to his Maker. The boilers are the real power of the ship. They are inconspicuously placed in the hold and seldom seen by the passengers, but they furnish the real motive power. Men who would furnish the power for a needy world may have to live as inconspicuously as the boilers. They may be called on to serve the lowest of humanity, but they will know that through them God is furnishing real spiritual power. There is a call for boiler-room men. The thirty men graduating from the Union Theological Seminary this spring have already received over two hundred calls between them. The bridge from which the ship is commanded has no crowds on it but the captain alone stands there. Man must not be governed by the crowd. He must not listen to the excuse, “everybody's doing it.” Chaos would result from such ruling. Jesus Christ alone should stand on the bridge, for He can pilot the human bark through the sea of life safely and successfully. All but ships of pleasure have ports to which to sail. A ship without a port is of no service. A ship always sails from the port of plenty to the port of need.