THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1926

Charlie says that an education may help a fellow in some things, but what about the wildcat? He knows more
secrets than any of us.

"Many a joke gets stale waiting for a nervy college editor to come along and publish it."

Flapper Fannie says that her date squeezed her so tight that she couldn't scream, and then when she could she
didn’t want to.

Prematurely bald
Is Fresh McNair,
His date set fire
To the grease on his hair.
Ashes to ashes,
Dust to dust,
Show me a cigar
That a hug won't bust.

Goodykuntz — “Doesn’t your mother stay up until your dates leave?”
She—“She used to but we are trying the honor system in our home at present.”

Bud Guthrie (at the dance)—“Wait a minute, I thought I heard something break.”
She—“Oh, it’s all right. That was just my promise to mother.”

Barber—“How do you want it cut, young man?”
Ogden —“Just trim it around the edges. I don’t want it short enough to look effeminate.”

Bob McConnell announces his latest melody, entitled: “I call my sweetie Cobbler because she’s next to the last.”

Lake—“What are you thinking about?”
Batte—“Nothing, but thanks for the compliment.”

Lowrance—"You'd better slow down at these crossings, Harper. Don’t you see those stop signs?”
Menzies—“Aw, he’s been going with these college girls so much that he thinks he can call questions?”

“Yes, sir,” replied Sook Boggs, “I was just wondering if William should take his girl to ride on a lonely
road and give out of gas, and then if he pushed it back to town, could you say they came
back by ‘will power’?”

His father from the stair,
Grabbed Gamp by the hair
And said, “Son, don’t use such bad grammar.”

Bo—"Just think, Joshua had a battle and he made the sun stand still."
Zo—"That’s nothing, my dad had a battle with the revenue officers and made the moon shine all night.”

Mack King says he had a terrible experience this summer. He crawled under a tent to see a circus and
had to stay there all night.

Johnnie had an airplane,
And instead of “walking boots,”
The girlies when they rode with him,
All took their parachutes.

In a class of Physiology and Hygiene the other day a freshman handed in the following paper on the subject:organs
of the Queen's—“Am I the first girl you have dated?”

Sujliyan—“As a matter of fact, yes.”

A Scotchman says that a moth is his favorite pet because it eats nothing but holes.

Mother—“I'm not going to let daughter go out with Harry any more.”

Father—“Why not?”

Mother—“Don’t you know that he won a loving cup this year at college?”

Ricks—“No sir, my three M’s: Madams, moon, and money.”

Many interesting models $6 and $8.50.

Our Dinah says she will not wed, For marriage is a fake, For a man who takes a miss, Takes
a “mistake.”

In grandma’s day all the young people looked before they leaped. Now they leap and let the world do the
looking.

A. N. Brown (after spending two hours studying Greek)—“I wish the guy that started the tower of Babel had been
in it.”

Voice in the dark—“What do you think you are—a chiropractor?”

Jim Vaughn says that he wishes his girl’s birthday came in the spring so he could give her a porch
swing for a present.

DEBATING TRYOUTS (Continued from page 1)

on the team. The side that Davidson will uphold is as yet undecided; however, either side may be taken in
the preliminaries. A two-man team will be chosen from among the contestants by faculty judges. Those men who wish to
try out for a place on the team should see Henry Powell, at 201 West.

GIVE US A TRIAL

FALL CLOTHES ARE ON THE AIR--TUNE IN

On Tuesday, Nov. 26th, we will be at EU HALL showing a snappy line of college men’s wearables.

BELK BROTHERS CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.
