. THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1926

“D-C-Rah-Rah!”

Joe—“There's something cute about you.”
She—“What is it?”
Willard—“Me.”

Parley Voo
Hamilton—"We have a French pig out home.”
French Teacher—“Did it come from France?”
Hamilton—“No, but it says, ‘Oui, oui’ when we feed it.”

“Pardon me,” said convict 348 as he bumped into the Governor.

Bridegroom—“Have you kissed the bride?”
Best Man (absent-mindedly)—“Hundreds of times.”

Hancock—“I ain’t going back to that darned old school.”
She—“Now, Wit, where did you learn such a naughty word?”
Hancock—“I heard it.”
She—“Well I’d stop associating with that boy.”

“Why is a girl’s dress almost a yard?”
“Because it’s a little over two feet.”

Gentlemen Prefer Blonds
Anita Loos—“Who was that gentleman I saw you with last night?”
Brunette—“That wasn’t no gentleman, I’m a brunette.”

Sloop—“Why are you looking so sad today, Shaw?”
Shaw—“Altruism, my boy, altruism.”
Sloop—“Altruism?”
Shaw—“Yeah, my love for another.”

The old-time desperado who used to make notches on his gun now has a son who makes notches on his
front bumper.

Wofford—“I’m going to kiss you when we get around that next curve in the road.”
Converse—“Now, that’s going a little too far.”

Preacher—“Do you think a man who plays golf on Sunday will be saved?”
Ben Wilson—“It really doesn’t matter about playing on Sunday, because when a man gets to be a good golfer he’s
already beyond redemption.”

Cute
Tommie Anderson, from Bristol, Tennessee,
Made love to his girl underneath an apple tree.
With a squashy, mushy sound,
Two apples hit the ground,
“Now, Tommie, that sounds like apple sauce,” said she.

McAlpine—“What's the difference in a Modernist and a Fundamentalist?”
Ricks—“Don’t know.”
McAlpine—“A Modernist says there ‘ain’t no hell,’ and a Fundamentalist says, ‘Hell there ain’t.’”

No Reward Offered
Lost—A black and white spotted cow with spots on the side next to the fence, and with a tail about
as long as a piece of rope.

Poetification New Style
A lady’s hand a man doth seize,
His fiery heart doth blaze,
He crouches near her on his knees
And pours forth her praise.
He woos her with a seeming ease
And looks into her eyes,
Says she, “Go ’way you little tease,
You can’t fool me, I’m wise.”

“D-C-Rah-Rah!” said the freshman as he read his report.

“Please hurry and lie down.”
“I’m afraid this fur would be ruined if it should get wet,” said the society lady to the clerk behind
the fur counter.
“Well, I don’t know, I never heard of a skunk carrying an umbrella.”

Sparrow—“Don't you think my mustache is very becoming?”
“It may be coming but I can’t see it yet.”

John Ely (at ticket office in Raleigh)—“What’s the admission?”
Ticket Seller—“Only fifteen cents.”
Ely—“I beg pardon sir, but I’m over twelve.”

They tell us that women give us solace, but if it were not for women we wouldn't need any solace.

Our Weekly Math Problem
If a spoon holds three peas more than a knife, and a saucer holds half as much coffee as a
cup; how long would it take a Frenchman in an Italian restaurant to eat enough spaghetti to reach from the
North Pole to the Suez Canal?

No other cigarette ever had so many millions of friends
WHEREVER you travel, by sea or by land, in places of work or palaces ofPleasure, you find the friends of
Camel. And since the art of increasing life’s comfort through smoking was discovered, no other cigarette ever made and kept
so many friends. Why does Camel lead the world? Because only the choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos are bought for
Camels. Because Camel is given a blending that, regardless of price, can be found in no other cigarette. Because the
world’s largest tobacco organization spares neither cost nor effort to make Camel the utmost in cigarettes. Camel rewards its friends
with never-ending peace and satisfaction. Through the day and into the night, it’s simply impossible to smoke enough Camels to
tire the taste. We invite you to answer, now, the world’s most popular smoke invitation—Have a Camel!

A rich man died leaving his entire fortune to his three friends—an Englishman, an Irishman, and a Jew—provided they each
deposited a hundred dollars in his coffin before the funeral. The Englishman deposited his hundred in cash. The Irishman placed
his in notes. Then the Jew wrote a check for three hundred dollars and took out the two hundred in
change. (This is not the place to laugh, because the Jew’s check was cashed the next day. The undertaker was
a Scotchman.)

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

Professor’s wife—“The tailor called again and said he was going to beat you up unless you paid for that suit
of clothes.”
Prof.—“Well, what did you tell him?”
Professor’s wife—“I said I was sorry you were not in.”

© 1926

How Much Does the Weight of Your Winter Coat Weigh With You? Lots of heavyweight coats are actually less worn
than those of lighter, more closely woven fabrics—and they’re seldom as stylish. For chilly days you'll find one of our
topcoats a great comfort with little weight.

The VOGUE

CALENDAR
Thirsty days has September, April, June, and November; All the rest are thirsty too—Except for those who have HOME BREW.

Wildcat Cafe
THE BEST PLACE AND FOOD

The optimist fell ten stories. He shouted to his friends, “All right so far.” —American Humor.

GIVE US A TRIAL
15 E. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

The pessimist fell one story; His wife stood on the ground, “Your head’s too hard,” she yelled.

Warner Bros. Broadway Theatre
WHERE QUALITY MEETS
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
ROD LaROCQUE in GIGOLO
SPECIAL PROLOGUE
Schedule 1, 3, 5, 7, 9

Davidson—“Have you ever been kissed?”
Queens—“That’s my business.”
Davidson—“Well, how’s business?”

You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N.C.

The height of disappointment is to be in the midst of a wonderful dream, and then to be awakened to
find that it’s only a dog snoring nearby.

Irate Father—“I'll teach you how to love my daughter.”
Fresh Goodwin—“Good! I've been needing some help ever since I started on this ‘clinging vine plan.’”

For things electrical necessary to your fraternity home in your efforts to make it more modern.
Stevens Electric Co.

HOT DOG!
A hungry dog once wandered into a butcher store; The butcher threw some sausage to the dog upon the floor.
The butcher said, “Now eat it,” The dog said, “I decline, For in that link of sausage I see, That
Old Gal o’ Mine.”
