THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1926

CALL FOR BOXING

A call was issued to lovers of the fistic art on last Tuesday morning. The boxing team has been an
unreal thing at Davidson but plans are being made for an increasing interest in this line during the present year.
Although matches with other schools are not allowed, much is learned by those who work under the direction of Captain
Elkins.

Plans are being formulated for a contest between the different classes and in the final contest the champion of the
college will be determined. Those who are interested in learning something of the art of self-defense should see Dick Flynn
at once. Pre-season practice for the wrestling team has been in progress for some time although Captain Weems has not
actively taken charge of the coaching.

VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

Friday, Nov. 5---Footloose Widows, with Louise Fazenda.
Sat., Nov. 6---The Night Cry, with Rin Tin Tin.
Mon., Nov. 8---The Country Beyond, a Fox production.
Tues., Nov. 9---More Nostrum, a Metro-Goldwyn production.
Wed., Nov. 10---Kid Boots, a Paramount picture.
Thurs., Nov. 11---Mike, with Sally O'Neal.

DRINK NuGrape
A FLAVOR YOU CAN'T FORGET
NuGrape Bottling Co.
417 Dowd Road
Phone 5776
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Literary Societies

Philanthropic

A question that is vital to many of us was discussed in the Philanthropic Society meeting on last Thursday night.
Dan Currie and Jack Hand received the judges' decision for the affirmative of the question, Resolved, that the crisis that
is threatening the cotton farmer could be diverted by holding the cotton off the market through co-operative marketing. Craig Fry
and D. F. Helm, on the negative, strove to show that the plan would not work, but they lacked proofs.
Smythe gave a humorous number that received much applause from the audience.

The Junior or Fresh society is to be taken into the regular society on the first meeting after Thanksgiving. The
Fresh society has challenged the Senior society to a debate at that time, and the Senior society has accepted. The
teams and query are to be decided later. Two new men, Gladstone and McLean, were initiated into the society.

Eumanean

The first part of the meeting of the Eumanean society on last Thursday night was given over to the initiation
of three freshmen, Dobbins, Christian, and Allen. The regular debate, resolved, that the Ford five-day labor plan is feasible, was
argued by Copeland and Sparrow, on the affirmative, and Oshiek and Engle, for the negative. The judges rendered a decision
in favor of the affirmative but the house voted for the negative on the merits of the question as presented.
"The Society on the Stanislow," by Bret Hart, was given by O. R. Robinson, with much vividness. J. Q. Dickinson
gave an informal talk on the coal mining industry as viewed by himself.

After the regular program, the society went into the election of officers. Those elected were as follows: T. G. McCutchen,
president; Tyree Dillard, vice-president; P. B. Frye, secretary; W. O. Ogden, reviewer.

Pandenic

The regular debate in the Pandenic Society meeting on last Thursday night was won by L. M. McCutchen and C.
R. Newnan, opposing the co-operative cotton marketing plan. Kirkpatrick and W. W. Harrison offered as proof the good work that
had been done by this plan.

For Economic Solutions

Committee Seeks to Find Solution of Problem of Price Cutting

The extent to which college courses in economics and business administration enable students to solve practical business problems is to
be measured this fall by Senator Arthur Capper, of Kansas, and a group of business experts. Senator Capper, author of
a bill to end destructive price wars, heads a committee seeking the best solution of the price-cutting evil. Suggestions have
been sought from students and professors of colleges in all parts of the United States. The student or professor who
presents the suggestion of most practical value will not only receive a money prize of $1,000 for his ideas but
will have the satisfaction of seeing them adopted as the basis of action by business men and legislators. The special
prize of $1,000 has been offered by Dr. Edward Plaut, New York manufacturer, specifically for the best college plan for
the maintenance of standard retail prices.

"What we are after," said Dr. Plaut, in sponsoring the competition, "is a real solution to this trade problem. The
answer is vital to the future success of American industry. The method of presenting the plan is unimportant. We are
seeking ideas, not rhetoric. A large number of men in wholesale and retail trade have already submitted their plans. They
are thinking clearly and constructively on this important question and show good business judgment. I am interested to see how
the winning college plan compares with the best suggestions from business men."

Dr. Plaut is a graduate of Princeton and received his doctor’s degree from Columbia. As both a college and a
business man, he is interested in seeing whether the better plans come from American colleges or from the ranks of
trade itself. Details of the contest have been sent to professors of economics and business administration. The jury of award,
headed by Senator Capper, includes Mrs. J. Bordon Harriman, chairman of the National Consumers League; Dr. Melvin T. Copeland, Harvard
School of Business Administration; Nelson B. Gaskill, former Trade Commissioner; G. Barrett Moxley, ex-president of the National Association of Manufacturers.but
were overwhelmed by the oratory of the negative.

Hugh White gave a declamation on the life of Robt. E. Lee.

A candidate for the Hawaiian Senate radioed his signature for his nomination papers from San Francisco to Honolulu, 2,000 miles.

Davidson Bulletin Comes From Press

The October issue of the Davidson College Bulletin has recently come from the press and has been sent out to
the majority of the Davidson alumni. The bulletin is largely under the supervision of the alumni secretary this year and
is published for the benefit of the alumni. Ernest Milton, a graduate of last year’s class, is the present incumbent
of that position.

The current issue contains letters from the alumni secretary regarding homecoming day, an article concerning the Loyalty League, and an
article which deals with the leading needs of the college today. This same article propounds in large measure the virtues
of Davidson. Three of the leading needs of the college as mentioned are a swimming pool, an adequate gymnasium, and
a Y.M.C.A. building. At the present time, the profits from the Student Store are being allowed to accumulate and will
be used for the construction of a swimming pool when they become large enough.

The article which has to do with the Loyalty League states that only 750 alumni have become members, whereas Davidson
now has a total of 3,500 alumni scattered throughout the United States and a number of foreign countries. The aim
of the Loyalty League has been set that “every alumni become a member.” The bulletin also contains a story urging
the alumni to return to the hill for homecoming day and the dedication of the new stadium.

Prizes Will Be Awarded

Golf Tournament Well Under Way

Returns from the fall golf tournament have been coming in slowly. Only the first flight has been completed, though all
matches were to have been finished last Saturday, October 30th. As several of the most consistent players are in this
flight, however, its results are very important with regard to the quality of the team to be chosen. S.W. McGill
was the winner of the first flight with Billy Wolfe runner-up. Both of these players performed remarkably well, breaking the
match record of the local course. McGill had a score of 68 for the 18 holes of the match, while
Wolfe was close behind with a score of 69. Both had a total of 25 putts apiece for the course.

One-Fifth of Davidson Men to Enter Business

Students of Davidson College Represent Twenty States and Two Foreign Countries

According to the report of the Registrar, almost one-fifth of the Davidson student body will enter business when they complete
their college course. He reported that 104 students would enter this vocation, with the medical profession second, numbering 95, while
the ministry was third with 85 candidates. The law profession will claim 50; 43 will be teachers, 25 will be
engineers, while future chemists and journalists claim six each. Four expect to enter dentistry, with only one declaring his intentions
of being an agriculturalist. The number of undecided students totals 223.

Twenty states, the District of Columbia, and two foreign countries have students at Davidson. North Carolina naturally leads in the
number of students attending Davidson, while Georgia surrenders second place to South Carolina. The apportionment according to states gives North
Carolina 369, South Carolina 56, Georgia 54, Florida 25, Alabama 25, Virginia 21, West Virginia 18, Tennessee 18, Kentucky 15,
Mississippi 13, Texas 11, Arkansas 3, Oklahoma 3, District of Columbia 2, while four come from foreign countries. The remaining
seven are scattered over as many states.

As for church membership, the Presbyterians lead with 507 members, the Methodists being second with 52. The Baptist faith has
23 students, Episcopal 16, A.R.P. 12, Christians 12, Lutherans 2, Congregational 2, with the Moravian, Disciple, and Evangelical Churches having
one each. Eighteen Davidson students are not members of any Church.

One student is at Davidson taking a master of art degree, and there are 97 seniors, 99 juniors, 220 sophomores,
214 freshmen, five special students, and six taking pre-medical courses. The unusually large number of sophomores is due to the
fact that numerous members of the junior class are making up back work and are classified in a lower class.

BRUISES

Apply alternately hot and cold wet cloths to bruised or abraded parts. Spread on Vicks thickly and cover with light
cloth. Repeat every few hours.

VICKS VAPORUB
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

WRIGLEY'S handy packs 5¢

Wrigley’s Chewing Sweet helps teeth, mouth, throat, and digestion in a delightful and refreshing way. Removes odors of smoking and
eating. People of refinement use it.

A New Oxford for Young Men, $8.50 Pr.

Here’s an oxford for the man who values his feet. It is a “Crawford” oxford, made of Scotch grain leather,
exactly as illustrated, $8.50 pr.

MEN’S SECTION STREET FLOOR

“Quality With Price”
