THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1926

Fraternities Give Victrola to “Y”

The new “Y” room has been materially improved by the addition of a new Orthophonic Victrola, a gift of all
the fraternities. This machine was recently purchased in Mooresville and was installed in the “Y” room in time for the
Easter festivities. Numerous records were also contributed by the various fraternities. By the addition of the new Victrola, the equipment
of the “Y” is almost complete and it is becoming a popular reading and recreation room. It fills a long-felt
need at Davidson. Up until this time, non-fraternity men have not had any place at which they might gather for
their social life. The new “Y” room amply answers this need.

The members of the Pan-Hellenic Council felt that this move would improve the feeling between the fraternity and non-fraternity men
at Davidson. The three local fraternities co-operated in the gift. This was the only feature which the “Y” room lacked
to make it a complete social center. Albert Hillhouse, who is secretary of the Y. M. C. A., has requested
that the boys make themselves at home in the room and feel free to come there at any time.

A Chinese Glee Club under the direction of Cheng Me Sun has been organized at Ohio College.

Perfect Service.
Suits Cleaned, Pressed
Picture Frames
Books
Pictures
SMITH BOOK STORE
402 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE

Fresh Country Vegetables
Staple and Fancy Groceries
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
Davidson, N. C.

Pressing Business! Yes, that’s us, but we have plenty of time to do yours and we clean and press ‘em
right. Buy a ticket and save the difference.
Proprietors Tex Tilson and Monk Mattox
Representatives Bohannon---Leggett--Woodham

The following is a list of the visitors that were on the Hill during the week of Junior Speaking. Though
all of the names are not available at the time of this writing, the greater majority of the guests are
listed below:

Beta Theta Pi—Misses Penelope Cannon, Holton Arms; Virginia Sevier, Agnes Scott; Ann Fayssoux Johnson, Queens; Kathryn Johnson, Atlanta; “Piggie” Newell,
G. C. W.; Elizabeth Anderson, Converse; Peggy Douglas, Sweetbriar; Beatrice Sterling, G. C. W.; Katherine Turner, Winsboro; Elizabeth Blankenship, Randolph-Macon;
Lucy Heath, Charlotte; Louise Elizabeth Gordon, Finch’s School; Irvin Marion, Queens; Katherine Wooten, Charlotte; Mary Mills Ham, Charlotte; Mary Clarke,
Fayetteville; Virginia McClamrock, Queens; Martha Lester, University of Georgia; Mary Baldwin.

Kappa Alpha—Misses Mary Ansly, Agnes Scott; Mary Shepherd, Sweetbriar.

Kappa Sigma—Misses Amy Lane, Philadelphia; Mary Madeline Ross, Asheville; Jean Alexander, Morganton; Margery Miller, Morganton; Isabel Pharr, Charlotte; Nancy Tyree,
Winston-Salem; Mildred Duke; Mary Neal Wilkinson, Gastonia.

Phi Gamma Delta—Misses Nonie Withers, Mary Baldwin; Josephine Klutts, Salisbury; Winifred Pegram, Charlotte; Martha Maslin, Hollins; Elizabeth Stratford, Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Misses Caroline McKinney, Agnes Scott; Sarah White, Agnes Scott; Mary Speir, Charlotte; Wilmer Kirby, Gastonia.

Pi Kappa Phi—Misses Mary Alice Gulley, Asheville; Zora Foy, Salem College; Jennie Adams, Greensboro; Blanche Alexander, Statesville; Ruth Davis, G.
C. W.; Pinky Pullen, G. C. W.; Elizabeth Darling, Converse.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Misses May White, Converse; Hennes Reynolds, Shorter; Luke Maynard, Converse; Rosalie Wylie, N. C. C. W.; Alice York,
Gunston Hall; Frances Moore, Winthrop; Hortense Cobb, Winthrop; Martha Erckman, Hendersonville; Martha Melvin, and Kat Burroughs, Jacksonville, Fla.; Shorty Reid,
and Nancy Cannon, Concord; Dot Butney, Columbia; Margaret Baker, Mary Baldwin; Charlotte.

Theta Upsilon Omega—Misses Mildred Biggers, Charlotte; Virginia Hoey, Shelby; Evelyn Martin, Queens; Cathleen Brown, Queens; Margaret Whitted, Queens; Mary Morris
Reid, Queens; Elise Roberts, Charlotte; Evelyn Josephs, Agnes Scott; Margaret Dixon, Charlotte; Caroline Thompson; Julia Josephs, Charlotte; Nancy Moffet, Sweetbriar;
Elizabeth Moretz, N. C. C. W.; Margie Fuller, N. C. C. W.; Louise Garibaldi, Charlotte.

Delta Theta Chi—Misses Eunice Varnon, Elizabeth Wilson, Greensboro; Louise Ruff, St. Petersburg, Fla.; Elizabeth McClaugherty, Bluefield, W. Va.; Ernestine Bennett,
Charlotte; Bobby Shinnick, Charlotte; Ruth Melvin, Maxton; Sarah Austel, N. C. C. W.

Pyramid Club—Misses Frances Armstrong, Belmont; Charlotte Guy, Charlotte; Louise Harry, Queens; Clara Davis Porter, Charlotte; Dot Lechler, Charlotte; Clare King,
Converse; Jane Gilland, Converse; Pete Reid, Queens; Hattie Belle Bethea, Limestone; Lynn Sanders, Charlotte; Betty Ragland, Salisbury.

Sigma Delta—Misses Elizabeth White, Mebane; Noel Walker, Phillis Rogers, N. C. C. W.; Webb, Concord; Lilian Tharp, Louise Ligon, Chicora.

Y. M. C. A—Misses Annie B. Daniels and Margaret Gordon, Randolph Macon; Lucia Porcher, Limestone, Col.; Marion Neely, Salem College;
Rachel Lee, Charlotte; Lutie Trent, Queens; Frances Craigie, Queens; Elizabeth Pegram, Greensboro; Margaret Monroe, Queens.

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

JUNIOR SPEAKING DRAWS MANY TO HILL.

Mary Sadler, Finch’s School; Harry Vance is Awarded Norris Athletic Trophy

All-Around Athlete Wins Over Contestants in Final Ballot

On last Wednesday evening at the Athletic night sponsored by the “D” Club, Harry Vance was presented the Norris Athletic
trophy for being adjudged by his fellow students as the best all-around athlete in Davidson College. The trophy, a large
silver loving cup, was presented by the Norris Candy Company of Atlanta, Ga. It becomes the permanent possession of the
one fortunate enough to win it. A recent ruling prevented Flake Laird, who won one such cup in his sophomore
year, from being eligible for competition for the cup. This rule provided that no man who had won the cupOnce
should be eligible to enter into the voting again. In being awarded this cup, Vance won over Anderson and Harrison.
These three men had been chosen on the first ballot by the students for this honor and the final ballot
decided in favor of Vance. For three years Harry has been playing on the Wildcat football team and has made
his letter in wrestling for three years. He has made only two letters in baseball but is playing on the
varsity nine now and has been doing excellent work with the stick and in the field. The following are the
rules governing the award of this trophy:

1. The Norris Athletic Trophy committee, made up of the director of athletics, the chairman of the faculty athletic committee,
the graduate manager of athletics, the president of the student body, and the alumni secretary, with Mr. Frank E. Lowenstein,
of Atlanta, Ga., as ex-officio chairman, shall have charge of the details of awarding the trophy. In the absence of
the ex-officio chairman, the director of athletics shall preside at all meetings of the committee. The alumni secretary shall act
as secretary to the committee, and shall keep a record of all proceedings.

2. To be eligible for the trophy, the recipient must have a passing grade on at least 70 per cent
of his scholastic work carried during the year.

3. The winner shall be determined by a popular vote of the student body in a primary election to be
held during the first week in April, and in a final election to be held at the same time and
place that balloting occurs for the election of officers of the student government.

4. The three men receiving the highest number of votes in the primary election shall be considered as candidates for
the trophy, and shall enter the final election to be held simultaneously with the election of officers of the student
government as above provided.

5. Each regularly enrolled student of the college may vote once for the candidate of his choice in the primary
by writing the said candidate’s name on the ballot prepared for that purpose and depositing same in the ballot box;
but after the field of candidates has been narrowed to three by the primary, only the three men receiving the
highest number of votes shall be considered in the final election.

6. Ballots for the final election shall carry the names of each of the three candidates, and each student shall
indicate his choice by a cross mark (X) after the name of the candidate for whom he elects to vote.

7. Balloting in both the primary and the final election shall be conducted by representatives of the Norris Athletic Trophy
committee. Immediately after the primary, the committee shall determine from a count the three candidates to enter the final election.
Their names shall be published in the student’s newspaper, “The Davidsonian,” and also be posted on all college bulletin boards.

8. If the three men receiving the highest number of votes in the primary are below the scholastic standard adopted,
the committee may substitute the names of the next highest men whose scholarship work meets the requirements. In determining the
scholastic standing of a student, the committee shall be guided by the records on file in the registrar’s office.

All expenses incurred in holding both the primary and the final elections, such as the cost of printing the ballots,
etc., shall be borne by the Davidson Athletic Association.

By application of a program extending over a period of ten years, the University of Southern California will be enlarged
and unified so that eventually the university site will be a solid block of buildings and grounds. High property values
make this a difficult task.

YELLOW CABS “PHONE 24 ANY HOUR OF THE DAY OR NIGHT” “A Pledge of Safety”

Visit Our New Fountain When in Charlotte Tryon Drug Co. Agents .... Hollingsworth Nunnally Whitman Candies

INSURANCE We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price of not carrying it. McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13)
Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department. Charlotte N.C. Phone 3486

THE PRINCESS CAFE FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN Open Day and Night The Up-to-date and Sanitary Place to Eat 221 West
Trade Street CHARLOTTE, N. C.

NEW RECORDS

What! No Women? The Happiness Boys 19973 The Village Blacksmith Owns the Village Now The Happiness Boys Price 75c

A Little Bungalow (Cocoanuts) Helen Clark and Franklin Baur 10-in. List 19974 I Never Knew How Wonderful You Were Lewis
James and Franklin Baur

My Castle in Spain is a Bungalow Fox Trot Chas. Dornberger and His Orchestra 19975 Drifting Apart - Fox Trot
Jean Goldkette and His Orchestra

Drifting and Dreaming Olsen and His Orchestra 10-in. List 19969 Dancing Shadows - Fox Trot Ted Lewis and His Band

Dreaming of Castles in the Air - Fox Trot Ted Lewis and His Band 10-in. List 19877 Whose Who Are
You? Beggar’s Orchestra Price 75c

Parker-Gardner Co. Music Dept. New Sheet Music
