THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1926

The Band
A Company
B Company
The Colors
Kioeetae Le BS
C Company
D Company

THE BATTALION OF THE R. O. T. C. UNIT AT DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Davidson College Students and Alumni Prominent in War Service of Country

Almost One Thousand Davidson Men Enter Army During World War—Twenty Make Supreme Sacrifice in Service of Their Country

When war was declared with the Central Powers in 1917, the response of Davidson men was as representative and as
fine as it was in 1861, when North Carolina linked her fortunes with the new-born Confederacy. To camps and field
service 150 students slipped away from the campus between April, 1917, and Armistice Day, 1918. Singly and in groups they
left us. Of this number 55 were in the Senior classes of the period. Of the class of 1918 three
men enlisted immediately on their graduation, and the three died in camps in the weeks of the following October.

In the late spring of 1917, 80 students were excused from further class work to help in food production on
Southern farms, and during the summer of 1918, four professors and 33 students went, at the request of the government,
to take intensive military training at Plattsburg. Later, in the vacation, however, the college authorities offered the plant to the
Government for the establishment of a Student Army Training Corps. Vivid in the memory of those present is the scene
that took place, south of Shearer Hall, at noon of October 1, 1918, when were gathered the 223 students—all who
were over 18 years of age, and physically fit—to take the oath of fealty to America, and become members of
this corps. Even while the young men stood at attention, one here and there dropped out, and on that day
began the epidemic of influenza, that put the corps out of commission for three weeks, and made of the college
an improvised hospital.

So far as has been ascertained, 580 alumni entered service. Of the total number, 959, of students and alumni, 368
were commissioned officers and 20 made the supreme sacrifice in battle clash at Cantigny, at Chateau-Thierry, in the Argonne, at
Belleau Wood, or in camp hospitals. From the north wall of the reading room 18 of their faces look down
upon the students of the college, to whom they threw the torch when their own hands faltered. With their portraits
hangs that of their commander-in-chief, whose boyish feet walked our campus back in the seventies, and who, indirectly, gave his
life in the same great cause.

“Rastus, does you love me?”
“Mandy, you is one woman I love none other no better than.”

Chief of Infantry Writes Greetings

Hearing that The Davidsonian was issuing a special R. O. T. C. edition in connection with the inspection for distinguished
rating, Maj. Gen. R. H. Allen, Chief of Infantry, United States Army, sent greetings to the students of Davidson College
in the form of a letter to Capt. George H. Weems. The section of the letter having special interest to
the members of the R. O. T. C. Battalion follows:

“To the Students of Davidson College, Greetings:

The right to bear arms is the privilege of every American citizen. It is his duty to be prepared to
defend his country and his home. Our country is unquestionably innocent of any design of militarism or desire for aggression.
We covet no other lands, but we do wish with supreme intensity to be secure in our own domain and
free to enjoy the advantages which Providence has bestowed upon us. In order properly to protect our beloved country and
to defend our institutions we must have leaders, both in peace and in war—men who understand the necessity for cooperation
and teamwork, men whom others will be glad to look up to and to follow. Military training is a means,
and a most important one, for developing leadership in young men and for developing in them a sense of responsibility
for themselves and for others. It is hence a vital necessity in the youthful training of every American patriot.

I am especially gratified that we have an infantry unit at Davidson College. In case of an emergency the R.
O. T. C. will be the source from which the men to command our infantry on the field of battle
must come and the records of your college show that you have been ready to assume this great responsibility. It
is a pleasure to be afforded this opportunity to greet you and to wish you every success for the future.”

R. H. Allen,
Major General, Chief of Infantry.

SERVE YOURSELF

I asked the lady for a kiss;
Then waited for her kind consent,
Till from her lips came words like this:
“Say kid—want ‘em wrapped and sent?”

Waiter (eyeing well-dressed stude): “Well, what’s yours?”
McCabe: “Nothing but the shoes, and they pinch my feet.”

Some of the cadet officers of the Davidson College R. O. T. C. Battalion. First row (reading left to right):
Capt. L. L. Deck, Capt. George Smith, First Lieut. Sid Jones, First Lieut. C. F. Hanetan. Second row: Capt. and
Adgt. D. G. Wilson, Capt. J. E. Moore, Maj. L. B. Huie, Second Lieut. T. F. Anderson, Second Lieut. G.
S. Purcell.

GREETINGS TO OUR GUESTS

It is with pleasure we welcome our distinguished visitors from the War Department, Major Edward A. Stockton, Coast Artillery Corps,
and Major Thomas J. Johnson, General Staff. Davidson is not a Military College, but it has a strong R. O.
T. C. department which, under the efficient guidance of Captain Weems and his associated officers, has developed to such a
point of excellence as to be recommended for inspection to discover if it may rank as a Distinguished College in
this department.

These gentlemen come to us for this purpose. With our cordial welcome we gladly extend to them every courtesy pertaining
to the occasion and express the wish that they may enjoy their visit to us and leave us satisfied that
the Davidson Corps is worthy of hearty commendation.

WM. J. MARTIN,
President

History of Inspectors Outlined in Article By Captain John W. Elkins

Natural Questions Answered in Account of Lives of Men

Two Visitors Are Prominent in Many Activities of Army Life

The first question that arises in the mind of men when about to meet another man is, “What kind of
a man is he?” and the second question is, “What is his personal history?” These questions are always uppermost inThe
minds of military men when they are about to be inspected by higher authority and the members of the R.O.T.C.
unit of Davidson College are no exceptions to this rule. Inspectors are usually good scouts, and that statement answers the
first question. With regard to the second question, more definite information can be given. To begin with Maj. Edward A.
Stockton, Jr.: he was appointed to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point in 1908 and served with distinction throughout
the World War, with the Chemical War Service. He was a lieutenant colonel when the war closed, having risen to
this grade from the grade of captain. After the war, Major Stockton transferred to the Coast Artillery Corps, in which
branch of the service he now serves. Major Stockton is a son of Mr. Edward A. Stockton, who is the
comptroller of the Pennsylvania Railroad System, and the brother of Maj. Max R. Stockton, who is an eye, ear, nose,
and throat surgeon of broad repute. Major Stockton was originally from Philadelphia and is, therefore, filled with a spirit of
brotherly love. He has the reputation of being able to make a good speech and of enjoying a quiet pipe
filled with good weed. He graduated from the Coast Artillery School in 1916.

Maj. Thomas J. Johnson graduated from the Military Academy and was appointed second lieutenant of infantry in 1908. Being from
Kentucky, he tired of dismounted service after about six years and transferred to field artillery. Although now a member of
the general staff, he is reported to still be an ardent artilleryman. He is a horseman of note and a
member of the Riding and Hunt Club of Washington, D.C. Major Johnson rose to the rank of lieutenant-colonel during the
World War. He is a (Continued on page 10).

Juniors Will Try For Athletic Honors During Summer at Camp McClellan

Honorary Society Aids With R.O.T.C.

The national military fraternity, Scabbard and Blade, was founded at the University of Wisconsin in 1904-05. The purpose for which
this fraternity was organized is best set forth in the preamble to its constitution as follows: “Believing the military service
is an obligation of citizenship, and that the greater opportunities afforded men for the study of military science place upon
them certain responsibilities as citizens. We, Cadet officers in various Colleges and Universities conferring baccalaureate degrees, do form this Society
and adopt this Constitution in order to unite in closer relationship the military departments of American Universities and Colleges; to
preserve and develop essential qualities of good, efficient officers; to prepare ourselves as educated men to take a more active
part and greater influence in the military affairs of the communities in which we may reside and to spread intelligent
military information concerning our Country.”

Since the founding of the fraternity, it has grown in strength and power until it now has over sixty companies
or chapters. Scabbard and Blade saw fit to enter Davidson in the spring of 1923 and was formed from a
local military fraternity set out to make itself known on the campus and has succeeded well, for today it holds
a high place in the honorary fraternity circle. Its work is naturally confined to the military department, but here they
have shown marked success for they have made themselves felt in every phase of the military work. Through its influence,
many valuable men are persuaded to continue in the R.O.T.C. for four years and because of the personal contact that
the members have with the personnel of the R.O.T.C., many harmful and injurious conditions are done away with by suggestions
emanating from Scabbard and Blade. Not only at the college but also at the summer camps, Scabbard (Continued on page
12).

Intercollegiate Contests Between Leading Southern Colleges—Davidson Will Enter Teams or Individuals in Baseball, Track, Swimming, and Other Events

During the summer R.O.T.C. Camp of 1925, at Camp McClellan, Alabama, Davidson College men in attendance made an enviable record.
Athletic events at the summer camps are in the nature of intercollegiate contests. Such leading Southern colleges as The Citadel,
Mississippi A. & M., U. of Florida, Auburn, U. of Georgia Tech, Wofford, Emory, N.C. State, and, of course, Davidson,
have teams or individuals entered for boxing, wrestling, track and field events, tennis, baseball, swimming, and other sports. Last year
Davidson was represented by such men as T. S. Baker, J. J. Earnhardt, B. H. Crayton, B. U. Ratchford, A.
B. Claytor, A. McIver, T. G. Purcell, G. H. Zimmerman, T. H. Anderson, C. C. Murchison, W. O. Puckett, D.
A. Alexander, A. H. Copelan, W. T. Davis, both Friersons, J. A. Ning, J. Z. McDaniel, Steve Wall, and V.
L. Short. These Wildcats, following a systematized training effort beforehand, made the following record: Wrestling, First Place. Boxing, Second Place.
Rifle Marksmanship, Second Place. General Rating, Third Place. The last rating mentioned above is one given to the college whose
representatives make the highest records along military lines and the fact that Davidson College, in competition with strictly military schools,
made as high a rating as third place caused considerable favorable comment at the time. Among the men scheduled to
attend the R.O.T.C. Camp this year are F. K. Bell, V. S. Broyles, Jr., D. M. Calhoun, J. W. Crinkley,
J. M. Farrell, T. H. Hamilton, F. K. Justice, J. W. Keerans, J. B. Kuykendall, Jr., R. H. McIlwaine, R.
L. Mitchell, H. L. Shelby, G. R. Sims, W. M. Treverton, J. B. Webb, K. V. Woodham, all of the
Junior Class, besides a few (Continued on page 11).

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

Dear Doctor Martin:

HEADQUARTERS U.S. MARINE CORPS WASHINGTON

The Marine Corps Baseball Team which recently visited your college and played a game of baseball has reached home from
its Southern Trip and brings with it the loudest praise for the wonderful college spirit and sportsmanlike conduct maintained in
your institution. Those of us charged with the handling of the welfare of young men realize the difficulty experienced in
connection with the maintenance of proper and high morale and consequently are in a better position to laud and appreciate
it. I wish to express for myself, the members of the team, and the personnel of the Corps our sincere
appreciation for the kind treatment afforded our team, and to hope for a furtherance of our friendly athletic relations.

With kindest personal regards, I am

Very sincerely yours,

J. C. FEGAN, Major, U.S.M.C. Athletic Officer
