4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH - Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. WORKMAN - Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON - Assistant Managing Editor
F. K. BELL - Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON - Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER - Associate Editor
A. N. BOWIE - Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH - Associate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN - Humorous Editor
T. G. BIEW - Alumni Editor
H. S. H. MILLER - Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
H. D. BURKE - Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH - Assistant Business Manager
V. S. BROYLES - Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER - Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPOON - Subscription Manager
E. S. DOUGLASS - Assistant
JULIAN LAKE - Service Department
M. P. CRAWFORD - Assistant

REPORTERS’ CLUB
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
T. T. JONES
V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres.
W. L. LINGLE
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas.
B. MARTIN
W. H. ALLISON
R. H. McILWAINE
H. M. AUSTIN
J. P. McKNIGHT
C. L. BRAGAW
A. M. SPARROW
D. M. CALHOUN
J. G. WOODS
W. T. DAVIS
W. S. GORDON
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH

EDITORIAL

See “Mr. Bob” Monday night.

Things are getting right now. Will be up in force Monday night.

The Davidson Glee Club, almost 40 strong, is turning Dixie upside down this week—at least a few feminine hearts down
Georgia way. The girls.

Every college but this has sought to ban the Charleston. About time for us to flout our blue stocking in
the face of this insidious menace to the goddess Terpsichore.

The Davidsonian’s hopes of many years have been brought about. The board of directors of the Student Store have voted
to give this organization a portion of the profits to fit us up with an office.

Suspenders have been suspended at Converse, and the gals’ galluses have all galloped away. An edict from the stern rulers
of our sister college decreed that the girls should no longer load their pretty shoulders with manly straps.

We wonder what has become of Red Grange, articles against compulsory church attendance, long skirts and hair, old-time habits of
study, girls’ glee clubs, and Freshman spirit?

It is true that the Freshman class has not produced any phenomenal athletic teams, yet the individual members of this
large body should not let their interest flag because of this fact. Only by the proper spirit toward the teams
can victories be won.

During this week, almost everything in the realm of athletics is being practiced. Swimming is about the only form of
sport for which there is no equipment. Football, baseball, track, tennis, and wrestling are all going full speed, and the
coaches have their hands full.

Y’S DOINGS

The room in the old Phi Gam Hall which has lately been turned into a reception room for all non-fraternity
students fills a long-felt want at Davidson. For a number of years, the need for a common gathering place has
been apparent. Boys who did not belong to the various social clubs have been at a disadvantage when it came
to entertaining visitors. But the new room, nicely fitted as it is, will serve admirably, and will lend a touch
of home-life to the campus. A question that could well be asked here is the one about the parlors in
East, West, and Watts dormitories. The fellows ought to use them as a social center; if they do not, they
should be turned into something useful, say a room for extra students in the fall, or something of that sort.

A NOBLE SOUL

There are very few who know the deep domestic sorrow that visited the home of Stephen Leacock, one of the
world’s greatest humorists; few knew that behind the bubbling and sparkling humor of Mr. Leacock dwelt the staid political economist.
Mr. Leacock’s wife had been for years dying of cancer and passed away during a visit to England to try
a new discovery. Mr. Leacock made a delightful impression here last year with his witty and brilliant lecture. It has
been announced that Prof. Leacock will devote all his earnings from his humorous writings and lectures to help research workers
who are seeking the source and secret of this dreaded and grim disease. It is notably commendable that a man
of such a type as Mr. Leacock, witty, humorous, and light-hearted, should devote his fortune to the development of a
cure for cancer. To the superficial mind, Mr. Leacock would seem never to have a serious thought since his manner
and appearance are so gay and happy; but this generous gift of Mr. Leacock’s makes one think of the prevalence
of selfishness in the world, as compared to the whole-heartedness and unselfishness of Mr. Leacock. It would indeed be well
if everyone would attempt to emulate the virtues of Mr. Leacock; and even if he falls short of his noble
example, he would be well along the way towards being the true Christian gentleman that he is. Those who live
in a valley have a shorter day than those who live on a mountain; but if they would only climb,
they could bask in sunshine more.

CONGRESS AND COLLEGIANS

On February 3rd the Associated Press carried a dispatch from Washington with the news that of the 11,737 bills which
had been introduced in Congress since December 7th, only three had gone through all the stages necessary to becoming law.
Although a number of these will yet become laws, the dispatch tells with a slight exaggeration of the workings of
our great legislative body. Immense have been the condemnations poured down upon Congress for its lack of efficiency; for its
superabundance of governmental red tape. What a different situation confronts the student of government when legislation at Davidson is considered.
The charge has gone out that “any motion can be passed through the Davidson student body.” Whether such is true
or not, we only point to the motion after motion which has gone over with a unanimous vote in the
hurried assemblies; we only ask for one of importance, if one at all, which has failed to carry in the
last year. What is the cause of such a situation—one exactly opposite to that found in the legislative bodies of
the state and nation? Is it the unusual wisdom and perfection of the motions themselves? Is it the complete confidence
of the student body in the suggestions of the student council, or in the proponents of the bills themselves? Or
is it the hurry to get away from the meeting? Or is it the lack of general interest in matters
pertaining to the “running” of the student body? We are making no charges against the student body, nor offering any
suggestions. Just seeking the reason for such a difference in legislation.

IDEALISM IN EDUCATION

One hundred and eighty-six scholars are working this morning under the spires of Oxford toward a higher education made possible
through the benevolence of Cecil Rhodes. Gathered from all sections of the English-speaking world, their vision is probably broad. In
the narrowness of our own view, we wonder what are their ideals of education. In our own hurry and scurry
for campus popularity or scholastic honors or extra curriculum achievement, it might be well to stop and ponder the ideals
set before these young men. Education, according to Mr. Rhodes, has for its ultimate purpose a definite end: thus he
expressed the hope in his will that his scholars “would esteem the performance of public duties as their highest aim
in after life.” Mr. Rhodes’ idea was that there are four qualities which should be elicited in his scholars. They
are:“First, the capacity to think and reason for themselves; secondly, fidelity to the moral virtues which he defined as “truth,
courage, devotion to duty, sympathy for and protection of the weak, kindness, unselfishness, and fellowship; thirdly, the instincts for leadership,
which he interpreted as an active interest in and love for his fellowmen; and, lastly, activity and health of body.”
The second, the third, and the fourth qualities are undoubtedly well developed at Davidson. No one can doubt the tendency
toward “moral virtues” on the Hill nor the existence of means toward the development of “activity and health of body.”
As to the instincts of leadership, one might even say that they are over-developed. But for all practical purposes, these
three qualities will pass muster as far as Davidson is concerned. It is at the very first quality that we
are moved to stop. Wherever the fault may be, it seems that there is one. The ideal is not toward
Mr. Rhodes’ quality of “thinking and reasoning for themselves” but toward “learning.” The fault is not one particular to Davidson.
It is common to the colleges and universities of America. From the far west come rumors and reports of attempts
by students to change the “cut-and-dried” courses; to change the attitudes of both faculty and students. Whether such a movement
is too idealistic is a question of moment. Whether a change is even to be desired is another question. But
there seems to be little doubt that this “renaissance” is moving, and that someday Davidson will have to face the
matter. It would be well that we consider it in advance.

Open Forum

During the spring months, the grass on the campus is exceedingly tender. Due to this fact, the R.O.T.C. department has
been requested to use the athletic field instead of the campus in front of Chambers as a drill ground. One
fact has been overlooked, however. That fact is that the athletic field has grass upon it which is just as
tender as that on the campus. The athletic field was a gift to Davidson from a generous alumnus. An earnest
endeavor has been made to make it one of the best in the state. The varsity football field has been
sown in grass twice and the baseball diamond has the only grass infield of any college diamond in the state.
This grass is just coming into maturity and should be in fine shape for the coming season. To say that
drilling upon it is detrimental to its growth is putting it too lightly, however. It can only result in the
replanting of the grass this spring at a great expense and an imperfect field next fall. We do not wish
to knock the R.O.T.C. department and it does seem that the college should provide it with adequate drill grounds if
it must be included in the curriculum. During the winter months, the coaches have made every endeavor to prevent anyone
from even walking across the field and now it seems that their endeavors have been in vain. The majority of
the drilling could at least be confined to the practice field and to the Freshman field. The college is confronted
with a problem but it does seem there should be a greater spirit of cooperation between the different phases of
the school’s activities.

W. L. LINGLE.

PHILOSOPHY

There comes to our mind that homely bit of advice called a “Frenchman's Philosophy” which was current during the late
war. Whether or not it originated with a Frenchman is uncertain, but we do know it is good advice. So
far as we remember, it went something like this: “If you're sent to the front, either you'll be wounded or
you'll not be wounded; if you are not wounded, there’s no need to worry, and if you're wounded one of
two things will be true: either you'll be wounded badly or you'll not be wounded badly.” Several more degrees of
misfortune were mentioned, and the cheerful philosopher ended by saying, “Either you'll get well or you won't get well; if
you get well, there’s no need to worry, and if you die, you can't worry.” This cleverness is as applicable
to peace as to war, and it will be found that in almost any sort of situation the same sort
of reasoning will hold good: If the best happens, there is no need to worry, and if the worst happens,
you can’t worry.—Salemite.

Minor Chords

THE STRUCTURE

One massive rock of hugeness, bold, and stern,
With all its native mightiness endowed:
On this to build—if living we might learn
The lessons of experience in the crowd—
Our habitation’s structure. Yet, but look
How mean an edifice we raise to cap
Our great foundation stone; as if we took
The sticks and mud, the rubbish and the scrap,
To build our everlasting estimate
Of Him who laid the cornerstone. So poor
A workman, with such tools, how he would hate
To view his handiwork in architecture—
Beneath the glorious granite’s mountain face;
Above the shack of empty ugliness.
—D.H.G.S.

Junior Speaking plans are going merrily on, after a fashion. Girls in many distant places are even now waiting with
expectancy for that delicious time of the year around Easter.

TWO STEWED

A couple of alumni had come back to visit, and they proceeded to get tanked up, as the alumni are
so prone to do. They went to the hotel to spend the night, not wishing to return home in their
dilapidated condition. They were given a room with twin beds. They turned out the lights, and then, by error, got
in the same bed. We wouldn't think of divulging the names of these persons so in the following conversation we
will call them Mr. A, and Mr. B, respectively.

Said Mr. A: “B!”
“What do you want?”
“There's a man in my bed.”
“There's a man in my bed,” answered Mr. B.
“Let's kick him out,” suggested A.
“All right,” replied B. Then,
“A!”
“What’s the matter?”
“I kicked my man out.”
Then said A: “My man kicked me out.”

“Did your girl win a prize at the Costume Ball?”
“No, but she got a lot of compliments on the showing she made.”

Father: “I see by the gasoline tank that you didn't get very far last night.”
Son: “Well, father, I'm not complaining.”

Prof: “I take great pleasure in giving you eighty-one in mathematics.”
Stude: “Make it a hundred and enjoy yourself.”

HE HAD LENT HER HIS PEN
“It writes beautifully,” she said.
“I am in love with the holder,” said he.
“What a man,” she saw the point.

Half-mast the flag for Ezra C. Jones:
He played a clever game,
But he used loaded bones.

No, Oswald, a Phi Beta key will not open a can of sardines.

ADVICE TO THE LOVELORN

She was my girl,
He was my friend,
I loved him like a brother;
And finally she came to town
And they met one another.
She liked him from the very start,
He was so entertaining,
And when they fixed a little date,
It needed no explaining.
Though love is blind, I soon could see,
She’s altered her affection;
And I was just the side show,
Where I'd been the main attraction.
Now she’s his girl,
He’s not my friend,
I talk of him as Mister:
I learned they’d not been out three times
Before he up and kissed her.
And thus one social principle
Has dawned on me much clearer,
I tell you if you have a girl,
Don't let your friends get near her.
—Exchange.

“Who's the gentleman I saw you with this morning?”
“That wasn't a gentleman; that was a Freshman.”

Five reasons why a certain Soph left college:
1. Agnes.
2. Mabel.
3. Mary.
4. Ethel.
5. Martha.

“I'm so broke I have to smoke Robinson Crusoe cigarettes.”
“What kind is that?”
“Cast-aways.”

James B. Kuykendall, Jr., entered the drug store and the following conversation took place with “Skit.”
“What do you want?”
“A nickel’s worth of asafetida.”
“Skit” wrapped it up and handed it to him, whereupon Jimmy said: “Charge it.”
“What’s your name?”
“Kuykendall.”
“Go on,” said “Skit,” “I wouldn’t write Kuykendall and asafetida for a nickel.”
