Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 21, 1926 SONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON No. 16

Davidian Songbirds to Make Extended Tour of Southeast in February

Tour Will Carry Glee Club Into Three States

ENTER STATE CONTEST

Seven Performances to be Presented — Two Shows Scheduled in Atlanta

The annual Southern tour of the Davidson College Glee Club commences on February 23rd. This trip, which is always taken shortly after the mid-term examination, is to cover three states, with a total of seven performances being scheduled. Preceding this tour through North and South Carolina and Georgia will come a new part of their yearly program. This innovation will be in the nature of a trip to Durham for the members of the chorus to enter a state-wide contest of the North Carolina Association of Glee Clubs. All the clubs of the more prominent schools in the State have been invited to attend and to present a catalogue program, the winner being declared the best club of its kind in the state and awarded a free trip to New York to take part in a national contest of the same nature as the state affair. This chorus will leave the following day for the Southern tour. They will be joined en route by the remainder of the club.

The first performance by the entire club is to be staged in Spartanburg, at Converse College. The Davidson club has presented its offerings in this South Carolina city for many years, practically every performance being given at Converse. The state of Georgia will see the Davidson songbirds the next night as the club will entertain at Brenau College, of Gainesville. Following the custom of many seasons, the weekend will be spent in Atlanta, where the men are to be entertained in private homes of persons interested in Davidson. Friday night a program is to be presented at the Little Theatre in Atlanta under the auspices of the Atlanta Woman’s Club. The Little Theatre is said to be one of the most modernly equipped playhouses in the South, and is suited in every particular for such a presentation. The girls of Agnes Scott College, of Decatur, just outside of Atlanta, will hear the musicians in the last entertainment given in Georgia for this year.

On the return trip, the club is to make two stops. The first will come at Greenville, S. C., where the program is to be given at the Greenville Woman’s College on the night of March 2nd. The concluding offering of this ten-day trip will be presented to the people of Gastonia on the night following the Greenville performance.

Before the announcement was made concerning the contest at Durham it was planned (Continued on page 5)

FLAKE LAIRD

Flake Laird, flashy captain of the Davidson quintet this year, has shown fine form in the games played this season. His work in the State and Salisbury games indicates that his work this season will be of the highest calibre.

Sophs Plan Class Banquet for Third Week in February

At a meeting of the Sophomore class held shortly after the beginning of school for the new year, definite plans were made for their class banquet. The banquet, one of the highlights in the life of the second-year students, is to be held at the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, on Saturday night, February 20th. W. O. Nesbit, class president, appointed three committees which are to have charge of separate parts of the program. These com- (Continued on page 5)

Plans for Junior-Speaking Festivities Point to Week of Unprecedented Bliss

Committees Are Perfecting Plans for Season of Joy—Magazine Staff Seeks Contributors

With a tentative program of lively entertainment already arranged, the Junior Speaking Committee of the class of ’27 is now hard at work perfecting plans for what bids fair to be the greatest Junior Speaking in the history of the college. Harllee Branch, chairman of the committee on arrangements, has had his committees at work since the reopening of the college after the Christmas holidays, and announces that plans for the spring festivities are practically complete. The actual plans of the committee are veiled with more or less secrecy, since it is (Continued on page 8)

Pat Crawford Talks at Sunday Vespers

Last Sunday evening the Y. M. C. A. had the very great privilege of hearing Pat Crawford, one of Davidson’s most illustrious athletes, speak. Pat is coach and instructor in the Gastonia City Schools, where he has made a place in the hearts of every Gastonian. He was introduced to the audience as “Peppery Pat, the fighting Irishman,” because he had earned that title on the ball fields both at Davidson and after he had left the portals of this college. Pat chose as a text the eleventh verse of the thirteenth chapter of Romans: “Now (Continued on page 7)

Large Audience Enjoys Three Plays Presented by Amateur Dramatists

Local Playwrights and Players Praised for Excellent Dramas Presented Here Last Friday

On Friday evening, January 15th, the Dramatic Club presented three one-act plays in Shearer Hall. The entire program was entertaining from beginning to end. Several of the actors showed more than amateur ability while the effects of stage fright could plainly be seen in others. The latter, however, could only be expected from those making their initial performance. Fred Smith as an antiquated tailor, and Linton Deck, portraying a Confederate War veteran, presented a dialogue which was amusing in the extreme. And in Deck, Professor Wachter has found his equal as a tobacco chewer. Smith and Deck shared honors with Dillard and McNeely in carrying out the witty side of the performance. These last two admirably took the part of the fun-loving British redcoats and kept the crowd in an uproar with their comedy.

The closing play was more of a fantastic creation, and presented a marked contrast to the other two presentations. Certain of the players lacked the dignity of the situation, but this could also be attributed to stage fright. The scenery was perfectly laid and the lighting effect was in harmony with the setting.

The first play, “A Little Bleeding,” was a picturization of Colonial times, near Kings Mountain. Three drunken British soldiers enter the home of an American colonel and proceed to almost wreck it. They are intercepted in their flight from the place by the colonel himself, and one is wounded. This someone becomes entangled in a love affair with the colonel’s daughter, through his desire to shed blood for any and all purposes. Naturally, the two are finally married and the play ends when they come to the conclusion that a little bleeding is beneficial to (Continued on page 8)

R.O.T.C. Unit Inspected by Col. Frank Rowell

Work of Davidson Unit is Praised in Public Address Following Review

On Tuesday and Wednesday of last week the R. O. T. C. unit of Davidson College was rigidly inspected by Col. Frank W. Rowell, officer in charge of R. O. T. C. affairs in the Fourth Corps Area. Colonel Rowell stated both publicly in an address to the R. O. T. C. unit and to individuals that the showing made by the unit was very gratifying and of a high type.The inspection of the unit began on Tuesday morning, with all classrooms being inspected during the course of some period of instruction, and continued throughout the day. No criticisms were offered by the inspecting officer relative to the methods of instruction, and the work being done by the members of the R.O.T.C. was proven to be highly satisfactory during the inspection—the standard of work common to Davidson College students. On Wednesday, the battalion as a whole was inspected, and a battalion review was received by Colonel Rowell. Notwithstanding the cold wind and the sleet-covered ground, the members of the battalion maintained a military bearing in keeping with the best traditions of the military service. So marked was this feature that the inspecting officer found occasion to commend the spirit of the battalion several times after the ceremony was over. After the review, the entire battalion was marched to Shearer Hall, where it was addressed by Colonel Rowell. During the course of his remarks, Colonel Rowell re- (Continued on page 7)

Hampden-Sidney Tigers Stage Come-Back But Wildcats Win By Seven-Point Lead

ATTENTION FELLOWS
There have been Junior Speakings and Junior Speakings, but never such a Junior Speaking as the Class of '27 is planning for this spring! At least that's what the present Junior class predicts. Plans are afoot for a week of unparalleled social activities such as would put to shame the “glory that was Greece, and the grandeur that was Rome.” Beginning on the morning of April 8th, just when the first rays of an early spring sun come creeping over the hills on the golf course, and continuing without interruption until the midnight moon of April 12th has reached its zenith, the celebration will be replete with thrills and mirth-provoking situations. The Juniors are anxious to have every member of the student body stay over for this celebration of celebrations, and are especially anxious that every student invite either his mother, sister, or sweetheart to be the guest of the Juniors on that occasion! There will be no noticeable expense—the girls are necessary and desirable. Write her now—it’s not a bit too soon!

Arrival of Exams Brings Terror to Quaking Students
The time-honored and age-old traditions of Davidson College are at stake; the intellectual capabilities and power of knowledge of every Davidson student will be tested and observed as never before. For again that seary-eyed, powerful, and all-consuming monster, “Examination,” makes his semi-annual appearance on the campus. With malice toward all and charity toward none, he will begin his terrible campaign; from the verdant freshie to the most dignified Seniors, he will reap with an all-destroying scythe. The only weapon that can possibly be used against him lies in the hands of the few Seniors who can attain that highest goal, an average of 90, and are exempted from participation in this terrible struggle. To the poor freshmen, who have never seen the like of such a monster before, he will be especially terrifying. And to those who have wasted their substance of time in riotous living, playing tiddlywinks and going to Mooresville, this atrocious beast will be extremely harsh and cruel. A multitude of this type have waged war on this hideous (Continued on page 5)

Freshmen Final Elections
On the evening following the election of Bob Covington to the Freshman class presidency, a second meeting of the class was called for the purpose of selecting the remaining two officers, namely, the vice-president and the secretary and treasurer. Bob Kell, runner-up in the race for president, was chosen by the class as their vice-president. His majority was about 80 votes. Other men nominated for the position were: Bob LeFevre, Jim Williams, and E.H. Smith. Kell is from Pascagoula, Miss. He is a pledge of the Delta Theta Chi fraternity, was occupant of a regular position in the backfield of the Freshman football team, and is prominent in other forms of campus activities. From a field of nearly a dozen candidates, John T. Roddey was picked to hold the com- (Continued on page 3)

Tigers Score First But Wildcats Soon Take Lead
CAPTAIN LAIRD STARS
Wooten, Seventeen-Year-Old Basketeer, Is Sensation of Hampden-Sidney Team

The Hampden-Sidney Tigers fiercely fought the Davidson Wildcats here Tuesday night after the first eight minutes of play, but the 12 to 0 lead obtained in those initial minutes was too much for the game Indians to overcome, the Wildcats winning by the final score of 38 to 25. The defeat broke a string of eight consecutive victories for the Virginia team. First blood was drawn by the Tigers with a field goal, Davidson dittoed and then began a dazzling attack of five more field goals in succession before the Tigers found their feet. This lead was enough to win the game, although the Tigers exhibited a brand of football shortly after the second half opened that looked as if it would spell defeat for the Wildcats. The score at the end of the half was 20 to 0. The shooting of the Wildcats Tuesday was far above the average and the general work of the team was better than at any previous time. The general work of the Tigers team was commendable, their ringing of baskets being sensational at times. Flake Laird, captain of the Wildcats, led the attack of the Wildcats that was brilliant at all times. Uncannily ringing baskets, he chalked up 16 points for the Wildcats, with Anderson trailing with ten counters. The little seventeen-year-old Wooten, scarcely five feet tall, was by far the Tiger feature, leading the scoring (Continued on page 8)

Students Vote to Cease Publication of Magazine
Action Follows Refusal of Faculty to Recognize Newly-Elected Editor

In consideration of the difficulties which have arisen over the publication of the Davidson College Magazine, the student body in session Monday, the 18th, voted to discontinue the bi-monthly literary periodical of the college for the rest of the year. The motion as presented to the students by Student President T.S. Baker provided that at the regular spring elections a suitable staff be chosen to revive the magazine the following session of '26-'27. The resignation of the entire staff of the Magazine two weeks ago following the request that Editor-elect Tom Barr resign, has led to much debate as to the method of procedure. An editor suitable to the Davidson College faculty had not been selected by popular ballot and the literary talent of the college refuse to work with other than one of the elected candidates. The proposition of discontinuance was considered by the Student Council to be the best solution of the problem and the vote of the student body upheld its opinion almost unanimously. As the matter stands, no publication of a literary nature will be fostered by the student body as a whole during the second semester of this year. It is hoped, however, and suggestions to that effect have been made, that some organization or group of individuals will take the ill-starred literary output of the Davidson students and issue some form of leaflet or pamphlet of the most representative efforts of these writers.