16 Pages Today

JUNIOR WEEK—ALUMNI

DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 1, 1926 Twelfth Anniversary No. 25,7

Junior Week Attracts Contingent of Southern Belles

PROMINENT Juniors Have Arranged Extraordinary Program of Pleasure and Mirth

No Plans Have Been Spared by Juniors

PROGRAM COMPLETE

Entertainment at the Gymnasium Will be Climax to Week of Enjoyment

“Junior Week,” for many years the paramount social event of the year at Davidson, promises this season to be the most extraordinary combination of joy and mirth that local students have ever enjoyed. Plans have been completed by a special committee of the Junior class, under the direction of Harllee Branch, Jr., and the program goes far beyond the fondest expectations of the most optimistic students.

Opening with the Junior Oratorical contest in Shearer Hall on Thursday night, the schedule includes every conceivable form of outdoor and indoor entertainment. No pains have been spared by the Juniors and their special committee to make the week one of unparalleled merriment. Even as early as Thursday afternoon, the trains and busses had begun to bring to Davidson large numbers of visitors for the occasion. Early calculations justify the belief that one of the largest contingents of Southern beauties, that has ever gathered at Davidson, will be present for the festivities this week. Girls from all over the sunny southland are expected to attend the “Junior Week” celebration as guests of Davidson students.

The Glee club concert, which is to be presented in Shearer Hall on Friday evening, will give both students and their visitors an opportunity of seeing one of Dixie’s finest collegiate musical organizations in action. A special program, appropriate for the occasion, (Continued on page 5)

Dr. D. M. Robinson Talks On Oriental Discoveries

Noted Archeologist and Linguist Delivers Lecture

Dr. David M. Robinson, professor of Greek at John Hopkins University, and world-famous archeologist, addressed a large number of students in Shearer Hall last Friday night. This lecture was of special interest to students of Greek and Latin. Dr. Robinson is considered one of the four greatest archeologists in the world, and is not only a distinguished scholar, but is also the editor of several books, such as Ovid and Sappho.

Dr. Robinson gave an insight into what is done in the archeological world. He spoke from personal knowledge of scenes in which he was an actor. He related many incidents and thrilling experiences which have befallen him in his many trips to the Orient. In his last journey, he spent many months excavating in Asia Minor, and he discovered the ruins of the Antioch where Paul first preached to the Gentiles. This city was built about 280 B. C.

Along with the lecture, Dr. Robinson displayed a number of slides which amply illustrated his lecture. At first many colored pictures of Asia Minor were shown, among (Continued on page 5)

CAMPUS LEADERS GET OMICRON DELTA KAPPA BIDS

Charlotte Wins in Cinder Path Meet

Last Saturday afternoon Charlotte High School won the second annual high school track meet to be held at Davidson. The winners scored 45 1-2 points. The Davidson freshmen, their closest competitors, scored 44 points. These two far outclassed any of the other entries, Greensboro High School taking third place with 24 points. The other teams finished as follows: Concord, 6 points; Salisbury, 5 points; High Point, 4 points; Barium Springs, 3 points, and Huntersville, 1 point.

Fort, of Charlotte, in winning the broad jump with a distance of 20 feet and 10 inches, broke the state record for that event. The former record was 20 feet and 2 inches. Kell, of Davidson, walked away with the 220-yard dash in the excellent time of 24 seconds. Milstead, of Charlotte, outclassed the other entries in the 120-yard low hurdles, completing the distance in 15 seconds. Kell, of Davidson, and Horney and Brown, both of Greensboro, were high point men for the meet, each scoring 10 points, resulting from two first places. Horney and Brown scored 20 of Greensboro’s 24 points.

Following the regular events Mr. F. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, welcomed the visiting teams to Davidson and presented Captain Ison, representing the Charlotte team, with a beautiful loving cup. This cup was donated to the winner of the meet by Prof. Carl Wachter, who has taken (Continued on page 5)

Lynn McClain Wins Junior Presidency

On the third ballot of the elections for the presidency of the rising junior class, Lynn B. McClain, of Sweetwater, Tenn., was elected to lead his class during the coming year. The final ballot was a run-off between McClain and Caldwell Withers, of Columbia, S. C. In the second ballot, F. S. Wearn, of Charlotte, N. C., was eliminated. H. B. Arbuckle was eliminated on the first ballot. The race was hotly contested throughout, each man winning his position in the various ballots by a very small margin.

Oak Ridge Cadets Fall in Defeat as Wildcats Engage in Big Slugfest

Cadets Take Lead During Several Stages of Game

FOUR CIRCUIT CLOUTS

Wildcats Wield Mighty Bat and Force Three Pitchers from the Mound

Davidson defeated Oak Ridge, last Friday in a slugging contest, 19 to 13. There were 30 hits in the game, of which Oak Ridge got 18. Davidson players, however, knocked out four home runs, Alford getting two and Laird and Woodham one each. Oak Ridge led continually until the end of the sixth, when Vance's triple with three men on base tied the score. In the first of the next inning, Oak Ridge again forged ahead with three runs, but in their half Davidson came back strong and knocked out seven runs. Although Oak Ridge threatened once or twice in the final two innings, this was enough to put the game away. Dean, Benton, and Johnson played well for Oak Ridge, Dean getting two triples. Vance starred for Davidson, with Woodham, Alford, and Laird doing more than their share.

Sanity Ware to Be Bigger and Better

As preparations for Junior Speaking are being perfected, a great deal of time and expense is being put on Sanity Ware, the humorous publication annually put out by the junior class in connection with Junior Week. In former years this publication, although under different names, has always been one of the most pleasing features of Junior Week, and this year’s staff is determined to maintain this enviable reputation. Work on the issue for this year has been going steadily forward and all the material is now in the hands of the printer. There will be an increase in size and volume over the issue of last year. There will be 54 pages, 9 inches by 12, with original drawings, jokes, poems, limericks, humorous stories, one-line witticisms, and other novelties. A special feature is the cover which was designed by Miss Alberta Austin, of Mobile, Ala. This cover is to be printed in four colors, and without doubt is an attractive example of Miss Austin’s best work. As far as is possible to Junior Speaking, all the material has been supervised by the faculty. The magazine is to be printed in Charlotte, and will be sent back to Davidson sometime Friday. On Saturday night the copiesMargin. The final ballot was led by McClain by only a few votes. McClain is one of the most popular members of the present sophomore class, having many positions of honor on the campus. During the past year, he has served the class as its secretary and treasurer. He also was elected manager of the glee club last fall and served in this position during a most successful season. The Beaver Club, an honorary sophomore organization, selected him as their president for their first year of work. McClain is a member of the local chapter of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. Caldwell Withers, who ran McClain the closest race, is also very popular with his fellow classmates and students. Withers is historian of the soph class and was toastmaster at the recent soph banquet held in Charlotte. He is a member of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, and has also been doing excellent work on the annual. Withers is a member of the Court of Control and a soph assistant manager in baseball. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. Wearn and Arbuckle, who were next in the race, have likewise achieved honor on the campus. Wearn is a member of the football (Continued on page 6)

Each team used three pitchers, but none were very effective and lasted only a few innings. The box score and summary:

Oak Ridge. AB R H PO A E
Dean, 2b 2 2 2 5 6 2
Goodson, ss 8 2 0 0 0 0
Scarboro, cf 5 2 8 4 2 0
Johnson, lf 5 1 3 0 0 0
Howard, 3b 5 1 3 7 3 0
Oglettde, rf 3 0 0 0 0 0
Richcen, 1b 2 0 0 0 0 0
Osea, p 4 1 1 0 1 0
Benton, c 3 0 2 7 4 0
Edmundson, c 0 0 0 0 0 0
WIRE, p 4 1 1 0 1 0
(Continued on page 8)

JUNIOR WEEK PROGRAM

A complete calendar of events for Junior Week, as announced by a special committee of the Junior Class, is presented below for the information of students and visitors on the campus:

Thursday, April 1, 8:30 p.m.—Junior Oratoricals in Shearer Hall.
Friday, April 2, 2:30 p.m.—Baseball, Davidson Fresh vs. Gastonia High School.
8:30 p.m.—Special Glee Club Concert.
Saturday, April 3—10:30 a.m. Tennis Exhibition.
2:30 p.m.—Baseball, Davidson vs. Lenoir-Rhyne.
4:30 p.m.—Reception at home of Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin.
8:30 p.m.—Entertainment in Gym.
Sunday, April 4, 11:15—Special church services under direction of Junior Class.
6:15 p.m.—Open-air vespers.
Monday, April 5—Charlotte.

By errors and wildness, Davidson threw away several runs in the beginning of the game, but the team steadied as it got warm. (Continued on page 5)

R. E. Kell Chosen as Soph Class Leader

Robert E. Kell, of Pascagoula, Miss., was elected to the presidency of the rising sophomore class Saturday morning, March 27th, winning by a close margin over a field of five nominees. Because of the absence of J. R. Covington, the present president of the freshman class, who is ill at his home, Roland Parker, of the Student Council, served as chairman of the meeting and had charge of the election. In the first ballot, Kell and Flinn received the highest number of votes with John T. Roddy running a close third. Five men were nominated for this office: Bob Kell, Dick Flinn, John T. Roddy, Bob Lefevre, and C. J. Albright. In the second ballot, the two nominees receiving the highest number of votes were voted upon and Kell was elected by a good margin over Flinn.

Kell has held the position of vice-president of the freshman class during the past year and has proved to be very popular and capable both on the campus and on the athletic field. He made his freshman monogram in football last fall and is at present proving himself the track star of his class. Kell is also the newly-elected secretary of the athletic association and was runner-up for this same honor in the student body. He is a Delta Theta Chi. The next two candidates have also played important parts in activities during the past year. Flinn, of Atlanta, Ga., was on the football squad and is also showing up well in track. He has been elected secretary and treasurer of the student body next year. He is a Kappa Alpha. John T. Roddy, of Rock Hill, S. C., is the present secretary and treasurer of the freshman class and will be the backbone of the freshman tennis team when it is organized. Roddy is a member of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity.

Initiation Will Be Held Here the Latter Part of This Month

Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, extended its coveted invitation to eleven prominent members of the Junior and Senior Classes and to forty outstanding alumni at its regular spring election on Monday night. The students receiving this bid, which is widely considered the highest honor attainable at Davidson, were: Seniors, F. W. Alford, L. B. Huie, W. H. L. Vance, and J. M. Garrison; Juniors, J. F. Pinkney, L. D. Wharton, W. A. Christian, J. H. McConnell, W. T. Covington, W. H. Branch, and H. M. Austin; Professor A. Currie was elected from the faculty. The alumni, whose names will be announced soon, are all men who gained conspicuous recognition in their various professions. They will represent the states of Virginia, Tennessee, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Florida, Georgia, and North Carolina.

Frank W. Alford, of Chipley, Fla., was one of the two members of his class to make a varsity monogram in baseball his first year. This year his athletic prowess was recognized by his election to the captaincy of the Wildcat nine. He has ranked as a leader in the Class of '26 since its advent at Davidson. Alford is a prominent member of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity. Litchfield B. (Litch) Huie, of Atlanta, (Continued on page 6)

Marionette Performance Will be Presented Here

Paul Clemens Will Bring Novel Entertainment Here for Benefit Performance Tuesday

Davidson students will have an opportunity to witness a marionette performance on Tuesday evening, April 6th, at 8:00 o'clock, when The Davidsonian will sponsor Mr. Paul Clemens and his company at their appearance in Shearer Hall. A low admission charge will be asked, 25 cents, and the proceeds will go toward the fitting up of an office for this publication. Jack and the Beanstalk and Punch and Judy will be the plays that will be presented by these puppet actors that are marvels of mechanical skill and ingenuity. A miniature stage with special lighting effects and scenery will be set up. Music will be heard at various times during the progress of the plays, and perhaps the best part of all is the way in which Mr. Clemens uses his voice to impersonate the parts of all the characters. The familiar story of childhood is used as a basis for this play but it is interesting to grown people as well as children. The lifelike movements of the little wooden figures, the deftness and dexterity with which they move, and the dramatic episodes through which the little hero passes is worth the time to anyone to see, according to all who have witnessed this sort of performance. Puppet shows have been given since ancient (Continued on page 3)