THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 18, 1925

Definite Point System Recommended to Student Body in Suggested Amendment

A number of radical changes in the point system governing positions held by students in the different student organizations were included in recommendations presented to the student body last Thursday morning by R. B. Parker, representing the Student Council and Omicron Delta Kappa. The old point system, proposed some years ago, had become obsolete, and the changes were recommended with the view of making the point system more practical. This old system was tacitly accepted by the student body, but was never officially adopted. It is proposed that, if the new regulations are accepted, they be incorporated into the constitution. The points given for some positions will be abolished, while some will be increased and others lowered. The proposed changes are as follows:

1. All 2-point positions shall be abolished.
2. The positions of President of the Senior Class and Editor of the Annual shall be increased to 3-point positions. Among the reasons for the proposal in the case of President of the Senior Class is to make it impossible for one man to hold both the high positions of President of the Student Body and President of the Senior Class. The editorship of the Annual is increased because of the amount of work connected with it.
3. The position of Manager of Baseball shall be reduced to a 4-point position. While baseball is a major sport and deserves more recognition, the duties of its manager are not as heavy as those of the football manager nor heavier than those of the basketball manager; hence it should not receive as much credit as the former nor more than the latter.
4. The Business Manager of the Annual shall be a 3-point position. As one of the principal publications, the work of its business manager is thought to merit the same credit that is accorded the Business Managers of the other publications.
5. The Presidents of Literary Societies shall receive no points. This is done on account of the decline in importance of Literary Societies, and also because of the large number of society presidents each year.
6. The Manager of the Gym Team shall receive no points. This does not detract from the honor of this position, and its great responsibility is fully recognized, but as this manager is always appointed and the student body has no part in choosing him, it is thought best not to credit it in this system.
7. The Managing Editor of “The Davidsonian” shall receive no points. This is done because this office is always filled by a member of the Junior Class and nothing but Senior positions are ordinarily eligible for points.

The following positions, not previously receiving points, will be added:
1. Manager of Track shall receive 4 points. Track is a major sport and this position has become more important and should receive the same amount of credit as basketball and baseball.
2. The Judge of the Court of Control shall receive 3 points. This is a new position, and its responsibility merits the awarding of these points.
3. The President of the Glee Club shall receive 3 points. This position has increased in importance and in the amount of work connected with it and deserves this recognition.

The entire point system, if these proposed changes are accepted, will be as follows:
President of the Student Body—5 points.
President of the Y. M. C. A.—5 points.
President of the Athletic Association—5 points.
President of the Senior Class—5 points.
Editor of “The Davidsonian”—5 points.
Editor of “Quips and Cranks”—5 points.
Manager of Football—5 points.
Manager of Baseball—4 points.
Manager of Basketball—4 points.
Manager of Track—4 points.
Editor of the Magazine—4 points.
Business Manager of “The Davidsonian”—3 points.
Business Manager of “Quips and Cranks”—3 points.
Business Manager of the Magazine—3 points.
Judge of the Court of Control—3 points.
President of the Glee Club—3 points.

No man shall be permitted to hold two 5-point positions, nor hold positions totaling more than ten points. The purpose of the point system is to prevent the overloading of one man with work and responsibility and to aid in distributing honors. If these changes as recommended are in...

Former Student Speaks at “Y” Vespers Sunday

“Buck” Currie Gives Interesting and Inspiring Talk to Students

A. I. (Buck) Currie, a student at Louisville Seminary, addressed the students here at the Y. M. C. A. vespers Sunday evening on the subject, “A Never-to-be-forgotten Compliment.”

“Some men like flattery, and they strive for it,” said the speaker. “Others look upon it with disgust. But there are few, if any, persons who do not like praise when praise is due.” He pointed out that there are several attributes of praise which make it desirable. First, it must come from honest lips. Just as too much alloy will spoil the gold, so too much deceit or dishonesty will spoil a compliment. Second, it must come at the right time. Lots of mistakes could be avoided by a notice of the time. The inscriptions which we see upon the marble slabs at the heads of graves mean nothing to the one for whom they are said. But if they had been said before death they might have caused many a sad heart to be gladdened. “They must come in season,” he said. “Look at Jesus, and how He praised those around Him, is an example of praise in season. The compliment is only gained by paying the price. This is the dividing line. It separates the good from the bad, the strong from the weak. When today is yesterday, the moments of feet become parents of centuries of regret.”

T. I. Beck led the singing, and J. H. Caligan led in prayer. Mrs. Vowles rendered a solo. Jim Pinkney Rice played the special music.

Freshman Quintet Back From Long State Tour

Scores Unfavorable But Team Shows Much Improvement

The Freshman basketball team returned to the hill on Monday after a rather unsuccessful tour of the state. Five games were played and only one was chalked up as a victory. This lone win was over Oak Ridge. Leftwich and Sturdevant started during the...part. Leftwich injured his ankle and Wenberg took his place. The game against Ridge ended with a score of 20-24. Kerr and Crawford were the stars, with the latter playing exceptionally well. The game was fast and furious throughout and was the best exhibition that the freshmen made during the whole Raleigh trip. The final score was 44-23 in favor of State. The first half was practically even, but State piled up a large lead in the second half.

On Friday night, Wake Forest played on their home court. Despite close guarding by State, Wake Forest won by a score of 28-19. Duke was encountered at Durham on Saturday night. At the end of the first half, Davidson was leading 14-11. However, Duke forged ahead in the second period for a 24-22 win. Kerr was the star of the game, scoring 10 points for his team.

The team remained in Durham over the weekend and came to Statesville on Monday night for a game with the Statesville American Legion. The game was closely contested, with the American Legion team finally winning by a two-point margin. Crawford came out of a slump in this game and played superbly. The final score was 28-26. The team played the best basketball they have shown this year. They started off every game with a rush but faded out during the second half. If they had been able to keep their pace, no doubt they would have had a more successful journey. Kerr was by far the best player on the team, starring in every game except the last. The men making the trip were Kerr, Hunt, Crawford, Leftwich, Sturdevant, Green, Gilmore, and Meadows.

VOLUNTEERS HEAR TAYLOR
"Tink" Taylor, of the Davidson class of '22, who is now a student at the Louisville Theological Seminary, spoke to the Volunteer Band at the regular meeting held at 10 o'clock Sunday morning. The talk was one of the best that the Band has had the opportunity of listening to this year. J. H. Calligan led the song service. A. H. Hollingsworth and D. H. Stuart led in prayer. "Link" Taylor, '22, now a senior at the Louisville Theological Seminary, made a short talk to the band.

AGNES SCOTT BROADCAST
Agnes Scott College broadcasts on February 22nd. The Founders’ Day program will be broadcast that night at 8:00 o'clock, Atlanta time, from the Atlanta Journal’s radio station, WSB. All former students of the college will tune in and get the program, which will include popular campus songs, a greeting by President McCain, and the Agnes Scott Alma Mater. There are 2,829 girls in 41 states of the union today who have attended Agnes Scott College.

THE MINISTERIAL BAND
The feature of the regular Ministerial Band meeting of February 1 was a lecture by Mr. Butrand, pastor of the colored Methodist Church, on "The Bible as the Supreme Authority." He supported his point by quotations from the presidents of the United States on the supreme value of the Bible. He made an appeal to the ministerial students to stick to the fundamentals, but also to guide their conduct with due regard for others with whom they come in contact. He concluded with the poem, "Let Me Live in a House by the Side of the Road."

Decorate yourself with the degree of P.A. That means "Pipa Amoroso" in Latin, or "pipe-lover" in plain campus English. P.A. has certainly endeared a pipe to more men than any other letters in the smoke-alphabet. Because Prince Albert lets a fellow smoke all he wants to—and makes him want to! Cool as the stare of a marble Venus. Sweet as the approach of vacation. Fragrant as spring blossoms. Think up your own similes, Fellows. You will when you pick P.A. and a jimmy-pipe for permanent roommates. Get yourself a tidy red tin of Prince Albert today. Fill the bowl of that old jimmy-pipe to the brim and borrow a match. Then you’re set for some great smoke-sessions, as sure as you’re a foot high.

PRINCE ALBERT—no other tobacco is like it!
© 1926, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N.C.
P.A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.