THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

REAL JUNIOR SPEAKING TO BE HELD THURSDAY

Stewart, Branch, Davis, McCutcheon, and Williams to Compete in Finals of Annual Contest

The speaking part of Junior Speaking will take place tonight in Shearer Hall at 8:00 o'clock. Five members of the Junior class will participate in the Junior oratorical contest, the winner to be awarded the coveted Junior orator’s medal at commencement. In the list of orators is seen a great array of outstanding speakers.

D. H. Stewart has chosen as his theme “The Crises of a Lifetime.” Stewart has distinguished himself in forensic lines during his three years at Davidson. He was a member of the freshman debating team which defeated Carolina freshmen in 1924, and is now on the intercollegiate team to debate Presbyterian College next month. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic fraternity, and Omega Phi Alpha, philosophy and psychology honorary club.

Harllee Branch is the editor-elect of The Davidsonian. He started his freshman year in forensic work by being a member of the Freshman intercollegiate team. In his sophomore year, he was alternate in intercollegiate debate and is now a member of the team to debate Sewanee on the Tennesseans’ floor on April 30th. He is an active member of Alpha Phi Epsilon and Delta Pi Kappa fraternities. His subject will be “A Newer South.”

“Loyalty and World Peace” is the theme to be used by C. G. Davis. Davis has been an active literary society man since his entrance here in 1924, having won the Fresh-Soph debater's medal last year and being prominent in intersociety debates as well as a member of the Forensic Council this year. He was a recent initiate into Alpha Phi Epsilon.

L. M. McCutcheon has represented his literary society in several intersociety speaking contests, helping to win medals for his society. He was alternate on the freshman intercollegiate debate during the year 1923-24. Besides his activities in speaking, McCutcheon has won fame on the tennis courts, being at present captain of the Davidson racqueteers. “The Menace of Society” will be the subject of his oration.

C. W. Williams has few equals for oratory in the student body. He made the freshman intercollegiate debate his first year here, last year won a berth on the team that debated Emory University, and will take part in the debate with V. P. I. to be held here on April 20th. He was recently chosen as business manager of the Quips and Cranks for next year. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon. All speakers have given much time and thought in preparation of their orations and an interesting and instructive occasion is assured to all who attend the contest.

JUNIOR WEEK (Continued from page 1)

...has been arranged by the officials of the club, and tickets for the big concert are already on sale. The various athletic contests, both in the way of tennis exhibitions and varsity and freshman baseball games, will prove an interesting and unique feature of the week. Some sort of an athletic contest has been arranged for every day of the celebration. Then comes the climax, a stupendous attraction at the gymnasium on Saturday evening. The great wheel of fun will have begun to whirl with impending momentum by this time, and the entertainment in the gym promises to be the most extraordinary event in recent years. The exact nature of the Saturday evening program has been veiled with unusual secrecy by the members of the Junior class, who hope to make the event doubly thrilling by giving it this tinge of mystery. It is at the entertainment of Saturday evening that copies of “Sanity Rare,” full of laughs and fun, will be distributed to the students and visitors. The magazine will be larger and better than ever before.

No mention of the program would be complete without reference to the reception in the form of an informal tea to be given for the boys and their guests on Saturday afternoon at the home of Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin. This will be one of the most pleasurable events of the whole week, and Mrs. Martin extends a cordial invitation to all students to be her guests at that time. Special religious features, in the way of church services under the direction of a committee from the Junior class, and outdoor vespers on the golf course, will add interest to the events of the week.

Military Unit Will Be Reviewed After Easter

Final inspection for Distinguished Rating to Come Middle of April

The student body at Davidson has become keenly interested over the coming R. O. T. C. inspection, which takes place on April 14th. This is the first time in the history of the institution that she has received this distinction, and great credit is due to Captain Weems, who is now P. M. S. & T., for this distinction. Captain Weems has worked faithfully for the time he has been here, hoping that some day his dream would come true, and that the R. O. T. C. organization here would receive proper recognition from the government for the fine way in which he has been conducting his department.

Official notice of the inspection was received from the War Department earlier in the spring, and President Martin has received a letter stating what will be required in this inspection. The inspection is to determine whether Davidson will be entitled to distinguished rating by the War Department. This is a rating given to only a few of the colleges performing most creditably in the R. O. T. C., and in past years has been held by such colleges as The Citadel, Clemson, Tech, and others of that type.

There will be a board of two officers to inspect the battalion, and the inspection will include the following: Examination in one section of each class; review and parade, and inspection of the entire R. O. T. C. unit, examination to include inspection of clothing, arms, etc., issued to the student; also examination on close order drill, extended order drill, and machine gun drill; practical solution of small problems and minor tactics, field engineering, etc.; examination of all facilities for practical and theoretical instruction, for care of arms and equipment, etc.

The officers on duty here have worked untiringly in preparation for this inspection. Every man in the unit has been supplied with brass buttons for his blouse without expense to the school, the government, or the student. This gives a uniform appearance throughout as some of the blouses when issued had brass buttons on them, while others had the old dull bronze buttons. All rifle belts have been cleaned, and the bayonet scabbards painted, and this also adds to the appearance of the battalion. All rifles will have been cleaned before the inspection, and after April 1st each student will be held responsible for the appearance of his rifle. The Students’ Pressing Shop, operated by Coaches Tilson and Mattox, and the City Dry Cleaners of Mooresville, have offered reduced rates to students having any article of their uniform cleaned or pressed. Major Huie and the company commanders will insist that every uniform in the battalion be in first-class shape for the inspection, and Captain Weems has issued orders that any man having a piece of uniform that does not fit him have it exchanged for a piece that does.fits him perfectly. While the officers are on the Hill they will be the guests of Captain Weems, and elaborate plans are being made for their entertainment while they are here. It is urged that the proper military courtesy be shown these men during their stay here, and all men are urged to dig up their Basic Manuals, or borrow one, and read the chapter on Military Courtesy. This will make a very favorable impression on the inspectors, and the men conforming to this will only be showing the respect of one military man for another.

SANITY RARE (Continued from page 1)

Copies may purchase them for a nominal sum. Approximately 800 copies printed, so that there will be plenty. The name Sanity Rare, which was used by the present senior class for their publication last year, has been retained by the juniors in the hope that a permanent humorous magazine may be started under that name. This matter has been discussed for several years, and it is hoped that it soon will become a reality.

Those who have charge of Sanity Rare this year are: Editor-in-chief, Harllee Branch; managing editor, Garnette McMillan; assistant managing editor, Kenneth Bell; business manager, Clancy Williams. The board of editors are: Buford Webb, J. H. Caligan, W. C. Ogden, L. D. Barton, and Claude Allen. Among the chief contributors are Bob Grington, H. L. Shelby, W. A. Alexander, C. F. Smith, G. A. Frye, and R. A. Platt.

TO THE CLASSES HAVING REUNIONS

It is the custom of the College to invite the classes who graduated in periods of five years back to return for a reunion each Commencement. Commencement dates this year are May 30th through June 2nd. Tuesday of Commencement week is regarded as Alumni Day. All the Alumni on the campus are invited as guests of the College to a luncheon at 1:30. This luncheon is a meeting of the General Alumni Association. This occasion is always one of keenest pleasure. Classes desiring to get together for a little banquet can do so at the evening meal on Tuesday. The undersigned Committee will be glad to arrange for a special table at the Hotel or possibly a special room at one of the boarding houses. The price per plate will be quite reasonable.

In this issue of the Davidsonian, you will find a complete roster of the classes supposed to have reunions. This has been copied from the Alumni catalogue and it has been thought best to list every man who was enrolled with the class even though he may be deceased or his present address unknown. The senior Presidents of the class are urged to communicate at once and arrange for a good representation. Every man is asked to write those with whom he was most closely associated in College, working up a feeling that nothing short of a broken leg will keep the fellows from returning. Every man who has ever been at Davidson is regarded as an Alumnus and is expected to take his place as a member in the class in all functions. Comfortable sleeping quarters will be provided in the dormitories, without charge, to all who notify us in advance that they will be here. There will be plenty of places to get meals, either at the hotel, restaurants, or boarding houses.

F. L. JACKSON, J. W. MacCONNELL, F. L. BLYTHE

CHARLOTTE WINS (Continued from page 1)

An intense interest in athletics ever since he came to Davidson. Following the presentation of the cup, the mile relay was run. This event did not count in the scoring. Charlotte walked away with the race and was never pushed by the other entries. The teams were entertained by the Athletic Association while at Davidson. Coach Tex Tilson, representing this body, stated that the meet had been a huge success and that all of the teams had been invited to enter the event next year.

Summary:
100-yard dash—Ison (Charlotte); Crowell (Concord); Floyd (Salisbury); Leftwich (Davidson). Time: 10 3-5 seconds.
Half mile run—Horney (Greensboro); Phoenix (Greensboro); Carbine (Charlotte); O'Neil (Charlotte). Time: 2 minutes 9 2-5 seconds.
120-yard low hurdles—Milstead (Charlotte); Fort (Charlotte); Leftwich (Davidson); Blythe (Huntersville). Time: 15 seconds.
220-yard dash—Kell (Davidson); Rowe (Davidson); Ison (Charlotte); Crowell (Concord). Time: 24 seconds.
Mile run—Horney (Greensboro); Ely (Davidson); Williams (Davidson); Bass (Charlotte). Time: 5 minutes 7 2-5 seconds.
440-yard dash—Kell (Davidson); Houston (Charlotte); Farris (Charlotte); Creech (Huntersville). Time: 55 3-5 seconds.
Mile relay—Charlotte, High Point, Salisbury, Huntersville. (Did not count in scoring). Time: 3 minutes, 58 3-10 seconds.
Shot put—Leftwich (Davidson); Daniels (High Point); Watkins (Davidson); Pickard (Charlotte). Distance: 41 feet.
High jump—Smith (Davidson); Miller and Houston, both of Charlotte, tied for second and third; Coats (Barium Springs). Height: 5 feet 3 inches.
Discus—Brown (Greensboro); Watkins (Davidson); Regen (Davidson); Ragan (High Point). Distance: 104 feet 2 inches.
Pole vault—Neilman (Charlotte); Bailey (Davidson); Fry (Davidson); Houston (Charlotte), and Brock (Barium Springs) tied for fourth. Height: 10 feet 2 inches.
Javelin—Brown (Greensboro); Cook (Charlotte); Regen (Davidson); Coats (Barium Springs). Distance: 142 feet 9 inches.
Broad jump—Fort (Charlotte); Floyd (Salisbury); Cooke (Charlotte); Glascock (Greensboro). Distance: 20 feet 10 inches.

DR. D. M. ROBINSON (Continued from page 1)

Which were solid sulphurous falls and great mountains of sulphur. Then he gave pictures of the excavations of the ancient church at Antioch, the city gate and the square of Augustus. Among these were the first Latin edict in Asia Minor which has ever been found, four fountains, many columns of Latin inscription giving the life and deeds of Augustus, a statue of Victory, and a fine head of Augustus. Dr. Robinson also spoke to the Greek II class on Saturday morning. He complimented the class on its rendition of Greek songs and congratulated Davidson on having so many undergraduates studying Greek.

The Ox Woman

On an East Indian farm, where the crop is tea, a wooden plow turns up the rich black soil. A woman drives, another woman pulls—and a black ox pulls beside her. Six hours under a tropical sun; a bowl of cold rice—and six hours more. Then the woman goes to her bed of rushes, and the beast to his mud stall. Tomorrow will be the same.

The American home has many conveniences. But many American women often work as hard as their Oriental sisters. They toil at the washtub, they carry water, they churn by hand—all tasks which electricity can do for them at small cost, in half the time. The labor-saving possibilities of electricity are constantly becoming more widely recognized. And the social significance of the release of the American woman from physical drudgery, through the increasing use of electricity in and about the home, will appeal instantly to every college man and woman.

GENERAL ELECTRIC