*THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1926*

He—"Let’s go for a ride during the intermission. We'll have plenty of time.”
She—"Will you promise not to try to kiss me?”
He—“Sure.”
She—“Ah, let's not go.”

Revised Proverb of Poor Richard:
A good many girls who paint draw men.

King & Flinn—"What line did you take to Europe last summer?"
Flinn—"The same one that I use around here.”

Mrs. Goldstein—"My Sadie has got her A. B.”
Mrs. Sandberg—"Oi, and my Salome has got her Ikey.”

“Rolling bones made Jack a poor boy.”

“I want to be happy,” wailed Mr. Hooligan’s baby boy.

Sociology? When some big prune, the son of a nut, marries a lemon, and the pair have a peach for a daughter, with cherry lips, and roses in her cheeks, how in the world can you still believe in heredity?

Daughter—“Father, the garbage man is here.”
Absentminded Professor—“Tell him we don’t want any today.”

Little Jamie Kuykendall—“Ah, Dad, I can’t. It’s Christmas now, and I must think of the present.”
Father—“But my boy, think of the future.”

Professional men make money; others have to earn it.

First Aid Hints:
“Should the baby fall from the third story window—if it’s a bouncing baby boy, run down and catch it on the third bounce.”

Our Dictionary:
To Pet—Being kind to dumb animals, and dumb animals being kind to each other.
Engagement—A military skirmish, period before the real battle.
Neck—Collar rack.
Moonshine—The still light of the moon. Also, bright life from the still.

1st Co-ed—“Oh, what did you do with that darling costume you wore to the ball last night?”
2nd Same—“Pasted it in my scrapbook.”

Gallant—“Who was the old maid I seen you with last night?”
Pope—“That wasn’t no old maid. She's a lady-in-waiting.”

In Queen Elizabeth’s time no one said, “Who was that lady I saw you with last night?” It was, “Who was that last knight I saw you with, lady?” We venture to say that the answer was invariably, “Why he’s a member of the K. of G.”

The very deadly poison, ptomaine, claimed a charming young Prince Paawaine. Hot dogs and kraut, sweet milk and trout, caused sorrow to reign in his domain.

Flivver, flivver, little car, all the world knows what you are, shivering as though you were cold, listen, you are growing old.

Stewed—“I’ll have you know—hic-hic—that I’m part—hic—of this Standard Oil Company.”
Officer—“What part?”
Stewed—“Hic—one of the tanks.”

Lost: One good overcoat and fresh cap. Owner will pay to party calling by police headquarters in Charlotte and regaining same. My laundry reward number is x00179.

Bordeaux—“I didn't run from the D Club.”
Peterson—“I didn’t either, but I had my Ford trained.”

Prof—“Give me an example of slow torture.”
Estridge—“Riding with an old-fashioned girl in a second-hand Ford.”

Hush little dirty joke, don’t you cry, you’ll be a picture show bye and bye.

Johnnie Bernhardt says women are just like flowers; when they fade they dye.

Cannibal Butcher—“We can sell this preacher for at least ninety cents a pound.”
Preacher—“Oh, dear me!”

CROSS-COUNTRY LETTERS
The selection of five cross-country men to be awarded letters was made by the athletic council at the meeting this week. These men were W. C. Penn, W. M. Treverton, J. L. Ely, D. F. Martin, and J. B. Webb. These men will be entitled to wear the varsity.“D” with the letters “C. C.” | Although this team lost two of its meets, yet in defeating Wofford, it won the first meet ever won by a Davidson cross-country team. The other two meets with Duke and State were lost by comparatively small margins. Only Webb and Treverton will be lost by graduation this year, and next year’s team will be built around Martin, Ely, and Penn as a nucleus. These men will also bid fair to win berths on this year’s track team. This is the first year that the cross-country team has received letters. However, it was decided to award these letters because of the great amount of effort and time that is expended by the track team in their training. Several of these men were on last year’s team, and hence the awarding of letters comes to them as a double reward.

“Stop it,” shouted the girl as her sweetie was about to run over a post.

WHOLESALE: When You Need Candy See Us 26-28 S. College St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

College gentlemen prefer BLOND gentlemen and dark-haired gentlemen, diffident freshmen and august seniors... Prince Albert is the overwhelming campus favorite of every type and every pipe. (Yes, the pipes do have a voice in the matter. They can act in a docile, friendly manner or they can be mean. It depends on what you feed them.) Open a tidy red tin of good old P. A. That first fragrant whiff will tell you why gentlemen prefer Prince Albert. Tuck a load into the bowl of your pipe and light up. Fragrance and taste alone are enough to win you. But P. A. doesn’t stop there. It is cool-smoking. It is mild as Maytime, yet it has plenty of body. It is kind to your tongue and throat. You can hit it up all you like and it never hits back. Try a tin of P. A. You'll certainly prefer it after that. *Not too diffident.

PRINCE ALBERT — no other tobacco is like it! 1927, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

P. A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.

Fresh Country Vegetables | STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders BARNETT AND COMPANY DAVIDSON, N. C.

Stevens Electric Co. For things electrical necessary to your fraternity home in your efforts to make it more modern.

CREDENZA, $300.00

For chilly days you'll find one of our topcoats a great comfort with little weight.

The VOGUE CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.

How Much Does the Weight of Your Winter Coat Weigh With You? Lots of heavy-weight coats are actually less worn than those of lighter, more closely woven fabrics—and they're seldom as stylish.

FELLOWS! You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA Prices $95 to $1,000 All Models in Stock---Easy Terms NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY