FOR A BETTER Vol. XIV DAVIDSON © DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 23, 1926.

Annual Staff, Under Dictatorship of Don Wharton, Promises New Features In the 1927 Copy of Quips and Cranks

Meeting Hall Office Set Up in Old S.A.E.

CONTRACT GIVEN

New Cover Design Drawn Up—Senior Section to be Greatly Enlarged

Having arranged for the use of the room in Eu Hall which was formerly occupied by Sigma Alpha Epsilon, the
Quips and Cranks staff for 1927 is now getting under way and indications point to the publishing of the best
annual in the history of the college. The room to be used by the staff has been refinished, the walls
plastered, new equipment in the way of tables, desks, cabinets and various things, which will aid in publishing the book,
have been placed there.

Don Wharton, editor-in-chief, states that the complete motif has been worked out and that sections of the dummy are now
being prepared. He adds that the 1927 Quips and Cranks is being constructed along new lines with practically no consideration
of previous publications. Particularly noticeable is the change in the Senior section. The plans provide for the pictures of two
men to the page, allowing much larger pictures and more space for write-ups than ever before. The cover, which has
been selected, is different from anything ever used at Davidson and is really a work of art in itself, Wharton
said.

Among other additions to the annual is that of devoting one book in the publication to the Faculty and also
a section to the Military Department. The staff was very fortunate in the fact that every man who was appointed
to a position in both the editorial and business departments reported back to school, although Bernhardt, photographic editor, was late
in returning.

Business Manager Williams states that all the contracts have been awarded for the constructing of the annual. The Charlotte Engraving
Company will have charge of the engraving; the White Studios, of New York, recognized east of the Mississippi as the
outstanding annual photographers, will make the pictures; and the Queen City Printing Company, which, for the past several years, has
printed the West Point Howitzer, a $25,000 publication, will print the Quips and Cranks. This printing company is handling only
the two annuals mentioned above, this year, and the same quality of work which has served in past years to
make the Howitzer one of the leading annuals of the country, has been promised the Davidson publication. The photographers will
be here during the first week in October to make the individual pictures.

(Continued on page 2)

ED WILSON

Ed. Wilson, Charlotte boy, who appeared in the Wildcat line-up last Saturday for the first time since his return to
Davidson, after being out of college last year. He starred on the '24 Freshman team at quarterback, and is believed
to be one of Younger’s strongest candidates for that position this year.

Juniors Selected As Cheer Leaders

Julian Lake and J. L. McGee were recently chosen by the student body as assistant cheer leaders from a field
of eight candidates. Julian Lake is a member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity and assistant business manager of Davidsonian. J.
L. (Spike) McGee is a member of the Pyramid Club. He is also in charge of all work done by
the Senior leader since the latter part of last year. In the spring the student body will select one of
these as head cheer leader for the year 1927-1928.

Other candidates were L. K. Pritchett, R. S. Lowrance, Jr., G. F. Houck, J. P. McKnight, A. F. Burgess, and
B. J. Alderman. The present cheer leader is W. M. Story. All of these men have been assisting the Freshmen
on the athletic field this year.

A. M. (Piggie) Martin, former President of the Davidson College Glee Club and member of the class of '25, is
still a student at the Louisville Theological Seminary.

Magazine Staff Promises More Complete Publication This Year

P. E. D. Witherspoon, who has been working on the Magazine for several years, was recently chosen business manager of
this year’s publication. The complete staff and plans in regard to the cover and pages were also announced by the
editor-in-chief, H. M. Austin. The Magazine will continue to be called the Chameleon. This was the name that was given
to it last year by the Blue Pencil chapter of the Sigma Upsilon Honorary Fraternity, when they took over the
publication of the old Davidson College Magazine.

In the past only two or three issues have been published yearly. However, this year it is certain that four
or five issues will be published, according to the finances of the Magazine. There not only will be a larger
number of issues, but also will be a greater variety of contributions. Furthermore, there will be a unique cover design
on each issue. The Cap and Bells department is to be discontinued. These several features and others will be incorporated
so that it will add greatly to the attractiveness of the Magazine. Due to the large number of issues, there
will be room for literary contributions of every kind. These may come from any member of the student body. New
men are especially urged to contribute. Such contributions should be turned into the editors of the respective departments. The staff
is as follows: J. H. Caligan, poetry editor; L. D. Wharton, essay editor; W. C. Ogden, short story editor, and
J. G. Wharton, exchange editor: T. G. McCutcheon, Boyce Martin, and J. P. McKnight.

Initial Tryout of Glee Club Forecasts Big Year

Eighteen Men Are Given Places on Club After Tryouts Last Week

Under the able leadership of J. S. MacRae, the Glee Club had its initial try-outs last week, and added 18
new members to its number. This year, instead of having Mrs. Baker, of Charlotte, to help in the organization, Mrs.
Watkins and Mrs. Daugherty, of Davidson, are drilling the voices. There were many of the upper-classmen in the try-outs, and
not so many Freshmen will belong as did last year. At the end of the trip last spring it was
found that the club had suffered in a financial way, and plans are being made for a shorter tour this
year, and one that will guarantee better returns, for the club, with the handicap of a heavy debt incurred, cannot
afford to risk a setback. It is hoped that the club will cover eastern North Carolina and Virginia on its
tour, and will also make two or three short trips to nearby towns. After the cool reception received in Charlotte,
no concert will be given there unless a good guarantee is given, for on the last visit, the singers looked
out upon empty seats, when it was thought their greatest support would come from Charlotte.

The prospects for better singing are high as usual. The North Carolina Collegiate Glee Club, many of the new class,
formerly of various high school orchestras, have already showntheir talent. In the voice try-outs, one of the new men surprised
the club members by an occurrence that is unexpected. The Association was formed last year, and it is expected that
sometime during the spring there will be a meeting of all the state Glee Clubs for competitive try-outs to determine
the best club in the state. The Davidson club is one of the charter members and will enter the meet.

(Continued on page 2)

Davidson Teams Will Be Weaker Than Last Year

Coach Monk Younger Predicts Weaker Davidson Teams for the Coming Year

According to Coach Monk Younger, the general athletic outlook for Davidson this year is not as bright as it was
last year in any of the sports. He gives as the reason for this that the Freshman class last year
failed to produce a single star in any sport or any man to fill the places left vacant by men
graduating last year. This means that every team was weakened by the loss of old men through graduation and is
unable to get new strength from last year's Freshmen.

The football prospects seem to be better than in the other sports. Several men from the scrubs are coming up
and will add new strength to the team this year. Laird, Anderson, Baker, and Vance were lost from the line,
and Hendrix and McComb from the backfield. Wick Black, who is in the hospital with pneumonia, will probably be out
for the best part of the season and will be missed from the backfield also.

Only two men were lost from the basketball team last year, but Coach Monk doesn't expect to have as good
a team this year as he turned out last year. Captain Anderson has not returned to school yet on account
of an operation for appendicitis but is expected to return and lead the Wildcat quintet this year.

The baseball team was perhaps hardest hit by the loss of lettermen, and the team this year will not measure
up to the one of last year. The six lettermen lost are Alford, Laird, Oden, Kugler, Vance, and Huie.

(Continued on page 2)

Leggette Shows Good Form as Davidson Wildcats Win Listless Game From Elon Christians By One-Sided Score of 26-6

WADE LEGGETTE

Wade Leggette, plucky Davidson halfback, whose terrific line plunges were the feature of the Wildcat victory over the Elon Christians
last Saturday. Leggette is playing his third year on the varsity and bids fair to excel his fine record of
past seasons during the present year.

Wells Scores First Touchdown of 1926 Season

MANY SUBSTITUTES

Englebock Punts Consistently for Visitors—McConnell Plays Good Game at Center

In the opening game of the North Carolina football season last Saturday, Davidson whitewashed the Elon Christians 26 to 0.
The game was played before one of the largest opening-day crowds in the history of Richardson Field. Beside the conspicuously
brilliant playing of Captain Lucian Wells and “Count” Leggette, the most outstanding event of the game was the sureness with
which the Wildcats carried the ball.

Only one fumble occurred during the game, and that one came in the last quarter with only two minutes to
play. The touchdowns were scored on straight football, with only a few forward passes being tried by the Davidson quarters.
Wells, after leading the drive down the field in the first quarter, on an off-tackle drive went through the Elon
team for the first touchdown of the 1926 season. The try for point went wild.

No more scoring was done in the remainder of this half, with the Christians showing more strength in this period
than in any other. Substitutions were made frequently by Coaches Younger and Tilson. Boch and Engleback, Elon’s quarter and full,
played most conspicuously for the visitors. The latter's punting was excellent, while Boch was the only opposing back who could
consistently gain.

In the number of first downs earned, the Wildcats by far outdistanced the Christians, making 22 to two for the
Elon visitors, although Captain Grey made an additional first and ten on a penalty. McConnell and Melton, in the Davidson
line, were the only other outstanding men in the game, although Captain McAuley, of Elon, occasionally would break into the
limelight with a brilliant play. Grey broke away for a 15-yard run in the second half and a touchdown but
was called back off-side. This was the only off-side penalty invoked during the entire game, something unusual for the initial
contest of the season when the players are expected to be a little nervous.

Leggette gained probably more ground than any other back. In the latter part of the game, he would break through
the defense of the Christians time and again for gains of 10 or 15 yards. On two such occasions, the
Wildcat halfback went over for touchdowns.

The line-up of the two teams, together with a summary and substitutions, follows:

Elon, Position, Davidson.
Alston, L.E., Bohannon
Real, L.T., Ritchie
Sites, L.G., Mitchell

(Continued on page 8)

The Davidsonian has just received notification of the distinctive recognition given it by the committee in charge of arrangements at
the Sesqui-Centennial Exposition, now being held at Philadelphia. The recognition comes in the form of a certificate award, in which
The Davidsonian is commended for its conspicuous service in assisting the directors of the exposition to bring the message of
the exposition before the public. The certificate, which will be framed and placed on the walls of the new Davidsonian
office on Oak Row, is a beautifully engraved certificate and will serve to remind future members of the staff of
the meritorious service rendered by the paper in its efforts to assist in the celebration of the one hundred and
fifty years of American Independence. The certificate that has been received by The Davidsonian is an exact duplicate of the
certificates that have been awarded by the exposition authorities to large metropolitan newspapers for their aid in the promotion of
the sesqui-centennial celebration.

Conrad Frederick Smith, ’26, is an important employee on the Gastonia Daily News and has recently completed a special industrial
issue, which was praised throughout the south.

SAY, MR. ALUMNUS!

Davidson is off to a fine start! Another banner year looms in the offing for the Wildcats. New equipment, additional
instructors, campus improvements, and an abundance of good athletic material assure your Alma Mater of a year of continued successes.
You'll be wanting first-hand information of the happenings in Jaybirdsville, and The Davidsonian is ready to serve you. Tear out
this coupon, fill in the blanks, pin a check for two-fifty to its corner, and drop it in the mail.
The “livest wire on the Hill” will keep you posted after that!

HE WHO HESITATES IS LOST—SIGN UP NOW!

Mail this coupon to J. A. McAlpine, Circulation Manager, Box 501, Davidson, N.C.
