THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1926

Officials Improve Campus Appearance

At the recent meeting of the board of trustees, the college officials were authorized to spend a good deal of
money for the beautification of the campus. In accordance with this plan, a number of improvements have been made within
the past few weeks. Chief among these improvements has been the sowing of grass in the bare places on the
campus. During the past week, these have been thoroughly worked over and fertilized so that at the first sign of
warm weather they should be thoroughly covered over with grass. It has been requested that the boys keep to the
walks as much as possible as the grass is especially tender at this time of the year. Grass is also
being sown in front of the new Chambers building. All of the trees on the campus have been gone over
and put in shape for the year. A large number of dead limbs have been trimmed off and holes have
been cemented. The ground just in front of the two literary society halls has been gone over. The rocks have
been removed and grass has been sown. Further improvements will shortly be made and the campus will no doubt be
in good shape for Junior Speaking.

Danner Mahood, ‘22, has completed his Ph.D. in English from the University of Virginia and is now field secretary for
the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity.

MAYHEW
Perfect Service. Suits Cleaned, Pressed
“JOBS WELL DONE”
Mayhew Dry Cleaning Co.
Davidson, N.C.
Mooresville, N.C.

Picture Frames
Books
Pictures
SMITH BOOK STORE
402 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE

Fresh Country Vegetables
Staple and Fancy Groceries
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
Davidson, N.C.

Pressing Business! Yes, that's us, but we have plenty of time to do yours and we clean and press ‘em
right. Buy a ticket and save the difference.
Proprietors
Tex Tilson and Monk Mattox
Representatives
Bohannon---Liggett---Woodham

DAVIDSON FOOTBALL TEAM OF 1901

Mumps Epidemic Smaller Than in Previous Years

Standing (left to right): Lelland, J. S. Rowe, T. G. Hutchinson
Kneeling: McLeod, W. M. Kirkpatrick, P
Sitting: E. W. Phifer, M. M. Caldwell
Dr. J. P. Munroe, J. R. Johnson, Dr. J. L. Brewin (Coach), J. M. McLean, J. M. Wyman, R. M.
Fitzpatrick, B. E. Wyman (Captain), J. K. Currie.

Following victories over Guilford, North Carolina Medical College, University of South Carolina, and University of Georgia, the Davidson football team
journeyed to Raleigh for the Thanksgiving Day game with North Carolina Agricultural and Mechanical College (now North Carolina State). Just
before the game, the team gathered back of one of the buildings on the Carolina campus and the above picture
was taken. Davidson was defeated 27-6. Dr. J. L. Brewin, a famous football player from Massachusetts, was coaching the Wildcats
at that time, and B. F. Ryan was captain of the eleven. His brother, “Dandy” Wyman, was playing halfback at
that time, his usual position being at full. He has been called the finest fullback to play under the Davidson
colors. Dr. J. W. McConnell was the manager that year, having broken his collarbone the year before on the gridiron.
Fitzpatrick was wounded in the World War. Tom Currie played end.

The following is the complete schedule for that year (this has been erroneously ascribed to another team in a late
issue of The Davidsonian):
Davidson 24, Guilford 0.
Davidson 23, N.C. MedicalCollege 0, 0, North Carolina 6. 12, South Carolina 5. 16, Georgia 6. 6, N. C. State
27; Davidson 81, Opponents 44.

Davidson Total: The members of the squad are now scattered from Texas and Florida to Tennessee. Four of the men
are now practicing medicine, one is a college professor, one is a preacher, two are druggists, and the remainder are
in business.

J. R. Johnson, '01, is now a druggist in Monticello, Fla. Douglas is now professor of Physics at Davidson College,
the position he was holding at the time of the picture. Morrison Fetzer, known as “Bunch,” is living now in
Concord, N.C. Dr. J. W. MacConnell is college physician and member of the faculty of Davidson College. He is one
of the few Davidson professors who are in “Who's Who In America.” J. H. McLelland is a druggist in Mooresville.
J. S. Rowe is in business in Raleigh, N.C. Rev. T. J. Hutchinson is in Rock Hill, S.C., after serving
as a pastor in Alabama and a United States Army chaplain. McLeod died of blood-poisoning before graduating at Davidson. W.
M. Kirkpatrick is now in business in Memphis, Tenn. J. M. Fitzpatrick was in business for years in Asheville, but
is now located in Dallas, Tex. Dr. E. W. Phifer is engaged in the practice of medicine in Morgantown, N.C.

Figures From Infirmary Show That Sickness at Davidson is Not as Widespread as Formerly

There has been a great deal of sickness over the campus during the last two weeks. There seems to be
an epidemic of both mumps and flu. Both are very mild, however, and thus far no one has been seriously
ill. The epidemic of mumps came first and the infirmary was soon filled with mumps patients. As soon as the
flu began to spread to any extent, these patients were moved out of the infirmary and put into the parlor
of West. Those patients who had flu were then put in the infirmary. There have been about 25 cases of
mumps so far. Out of this number, only two of them were upperclassmen. There are only five cases now and
they are getting on nicely. They have organized a “mumps club” and would be glad to have any new members
who can qualify. Initiation fees will be spent on sour pickles for the initiates.

This is the time of the year when the infirmary is more crowded than at any other time. From February
15th to March 15th is the busiest time for the nurses and doctors. There has not been as much sickness
this year as there was last, nor has it been as serious as it was last year. There have been
about 60 boys in the infirmary since February 15th. We are fortunate in not having more sickness, for several schools
in this state have been quarantined. Mrs. Robeson, in her customary efficient and untiring manner, has handled this emergency with
little outside assistance.

Student Conference to be Held at Blue Ridge During Middle of June

More Than Six Hundred College Students to Attend Annual Meeting

The annual Southern Students’ Conference of Y.M.C.A. is to be held this year June 15-24, at the Y.M.C.A. Conference headquarters
at Blue Ridge. At this conference, matters of vital importance are discussed from the student's point of view. Well-prepared and
nationally known men are secured by the Y.M.C.A. for this conference, at which over 600 students gather from the leading
colleges and universities of the South.

The mornings during the conference are given to individual study periods, addresses on outstanding questions in the minds of the
college students, and the study of the work of the association. Afternoons are given to athletics, hikes, swimming matches, baseball
games between college delegations, and the like. This period each day affords ample opportunity for visiting points of interest around
Blue Ridge. During the evenings, addresses will be given on such themes as “Jesus’ Conception of God,” “Relations of Men
and Women,” and “Science to Modern Education.” The question of the Christian is given due consideration. The entire conference affords
a well-rounded ten days of inspiration and affords an ideal time for recreation and profit to those attending. Davidson has
been represented by delegations during the past years, and plans are under way for organizing a Blue Ridge Drive on
the campus at an early date.

Dr. M. M. Caldwell practiced medicine in Wilmington, N.C., until his death by drowning in 1915. His son is in
the freshman class at Davidson. Dr. B. F. Wyman is a physician in Aiken, S.C., while J. A. Wyman is
a lawyer in Bamberg, S.C. He is also engaged in farming and the cotton business.

We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price of not carrying it.

McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13)
Independence Trust Co.
Insurance Department.
Charlotte, N.C.
