THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH - Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES - Business Manager
W. M. CALHOUN - Managing Editor
W. S. GORDON - Assistant Managing Editor
J. M. McCONNELL - Athletic Editor
J. M. CALDWELL - Associate Editor
J. M. McCONNELL - Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON - Exchange Editor
D. M. CALHOUN - Assignment Editor
W. S. GORDON - Inquiring Reporter
F. C. WITHERS - Assistant Business Manager
E. L. DOUGLASS - Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD - Assistant Business Manager
J. A. McALPINE - Subscription Manager
W. L. ALBRIGHT - Circulation Manager
R. S. BOARDMAN - Office Manager

Reporters Club:
C. C. MURCHISON
R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
K. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
TON GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. L. SPARROW
A. N. PROEN
R. W. McILWAINE
J. P. McKNIGHT
A. M. SPARROW
B. WILSON
B. F. McQUREN

EDITORIAL

After wondering thousands of years how to fix their hair, women finally cut it off.

Give a rope to two men, and one will lead the other. Queer, isn’t it?

When a man wants to talk to a woman without interruption, he says nice things to her.

Good sportsmanship is more to be desired than great victories. The game last Saturday was marred by a number of little unpleasantness, the blame for which The Davidsonian does not attempt to assign. Davidson does not care either to win or lose at the expense of poor sportsmanship, and the lesson learned at the game Saturday should serve as a reminder to our athletic committee when the time rolls around for making a new schedule.

Three games—three victories! A jam-up record for the “Wildcats,” who, in spite of Jake Wade’s pessimistic prophecy, seem to be playing about as good football as the next one.

“Woman in Automobile Runs Wild in Chester,” is a headline appearing in a recent issue of the Charlotte Observer. Nothing very unusual about that!

WANING SUPERIORITY

The spectacular achievements of women in every field of human endeavor, especially in athletics, politics, education, exploration, and religion, have started man tottering on his self-created pedestal of would-be superiority. Woman is rightfully stepping into a position of world leadership, and mankind, suddenly awakening to the potentialities of the opposite sex, is staggering in an effort to maintain his waning prestige.

Since the time of the original apple episode, the male has dwelt more or less securely in an unconscious state of feeling himself superior to the female. The stone age did little to undermine the belief of man that he was really quite stronger mentally, more powerful physically, and completely the lord and master. So for hundreds of years man continued to dwell in a state of ignorant bliss, while woman patiently soothed her lord’s vanity and planned for the puncturing of his ever-increasing egotism, declares the St. Petersburg Times.

Hardly fifty years ago the female first raised a voice of rebellion against things as they were, and man, in his conceit, attempted by ridicule and indifference to drive her into the background where she had been too long. Energetic efforts were made to keep woman where man believed she should be, in mental slavery. But woman persistently raised her voice and publicly denounced the intolerance of her servitude and subordination. The pioneer female was a martyr for the cause of her freedom and likewise the target. But, steadily the female plodded on, until one day not so long ago, the male awoke to find himself beaten at his own game, and to discover that his superiority was without any real foundation in fact, and that it had endured mainly in his own imagination.

The progress of the female continued, until she had bested man at almost every turn. They made governor and legislator. Women took the lead in progressive education, new discoveries in medicine, in religion and in science. Their influence began to be felt throughout the human activities that required physical prowess and endurance, women’s superiority became eminent. Man finds himself struggling to maintain his equilibrium on a pedestal that is shaking under the attacks of woman, and is learning day by day the wisdom of taking into consideration his waning superiority.

LUCK

American collegians would do well to take to heart the words of President Calvin Coolidge in his recent interview on the part played by luck in men’s lives. The President’s observation is that luck isn’t a particularly important factor. “The main thing,” he says, “is to take advantage of luck when it comes along.” The experience of our national executive bears out these observations. When Coolidge became a track star—and the weight member of the Massachusetts Legislature it was not luck that sent him to the State Senate, then to its leadership and finally to the governorship of his state, says the Kansas City Times. He worked hard. He showed good judgment.

A large element of luck is said to have entered into his nomination for the vice-presidency. But certainly luck would not have hit his way if he hadn’t been prepared, if he hadn’t made a name for himself as Governor. J. Ingalls wasn’t using statistics when he said in his famous sonnet that opportunity knocks but once, says the Chattanooga Times, commenting on the President’s discourse. It knocks repeatedly, and if it fails to appear a man can send out a subpoena for it.

Calvin Coolidge had a childhood ambition to be a groceryman, and there are those perhaps who will say that luck kept him from behind a grocery counter and sat him in the White House. Coolidge, himself, may be unable to explain his presence in the White House, but we may rest assured that his every word during his earlier life had prepared him to take advantage of the luck element when it came.

AN INNOVATION

The “Tap Day,” as planned by the members of the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, and explained elsewhere in this issue, will prove a welcome innovation on the Davidson campus where something of the sort has been needed to revive a lagging interest in honorary fraternities. Information that is available for publication at this time is, of necessity, a bit meagre, since the fraternity is wisely veiling its plans with considerable secrecy. From what is known, it appears that at last Davidson is to have an honorary ceremony that will rival in local importance those of the larger colleges and universities. An honorary fraternity bid-day is always a source of interest and anticipation. Up until the present time the extending of bids by the honorary fraternities has been a spasmodic and uneventful affair, which has failed to arouse interest beyond the two parties most vitally interested in the pledging. Now Davidson is to have a “Tap Day” that should eventually mean to our campus what the bidding of the Golden Fleece means to the students at the University of North Carolina, what the bidding of the Skull and Key Clubs mean on the campus at Georgia Tech, and what the extending of honorary fraternity bids at other institutions signifies.White, its members made a special study of Edgar Guests' life and works. Other colleges have come to mean in the life of the undergraduates what the “Tap Day” will consist of in a broadening of the scope and the prestige of that particular organization; the other will accrue to the honorary fraternities in general, reviving interest on the part of all the students of the college. It is fortunate that this innovation is to be pushing its way to a place of preeminence among the honorary fraternities of the nation, and on our campus is proving a leader along with such other honorary organizations as Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, in whose membership is included the outstanding fraternity.

ERNEST F. BOHANNON, JR.
Davidson, N. C.
President of the Athletic Association

Ernest F. Bohannon, Jr., a product of Davidson, has spent most of his brief but eventful lifetime within arm’s reach of the campus. He stepped through the portals of the college in the fall, and within the bounds of the campus was the cause of considerable interest. Upperclassmen had watched him perform in the backfield of the famous 1923 Davidson High School football team. A place awaited him on the freshman football team, and having nonchalantly proved his superiority over other candidates, he proceeded to take charge of the left flank on the “rat” team. His athletic prowess stood him in good stead, and during his sophomore year, he won a place on the varsity squad, stepping into a vacancy left by an illustrious predecessor. Athletic prowess plus personality has won him popularity among his fellow students, who have shown their respect by electing Bohannon to the student council, to the presidency of the association, and other positions. His versatile interests are shown by his membership in both the “D” Club and the International Relations Club, which are, to say the least, a bit different.

LACY DONNELL WHARTON, JR.
Smithfield, N. C.
Editor-in-Chief of Quips and Cranks

“Don” is the embodiment of versatility, as his long list of honors and achievements at Davidson testify. No line of college endeavor has failed to feel his influence, and his work in the various lines of campus activity has been crowned with unusual success. Entering the college from Smithfield, N. C., he immediately attracted attention by his spectacular work on the freshman football squad, then as a writer, and finally as an orator of no mean talents. His journalistic ability landed him a place on the staff of The Davidsonian during the early part of his sophomore year, and as sporting editor of the paper, he set a high mark at which his successors have aimed. For three years his work on the school weekly was of outstanding merit, and only the fact that he is editor of the yearbook has prevented him from taking a leading part in the activities of The Davidsonian again this year. As a member of the freshman and varsity intercollegiate debating teams for three years, his ability was unquestioned. The presidency of the forensic council and membership in the Alpha Phi Epsilon national forensic fraternity are both rewards for his meritorious work along oratorical lines. Other honorary organizations which have bestowed membership on “Don” include the Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity, the Delta Pi Kappa journalistic fraternity, and Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity. He is also the ranking member of the publications board, a member of the magazine staff, and a retired member of the Davidson Press Bureau. He is the historian of his class and a member of the Delta Theta Chi social fraternity.

Minor Chords Collegiate Chatter

Note: The following “Hymn to Davidson” has been submitted to The Davidsonian by James H. Caligan, our own poet-laureate, and is believed to possess merit sufficient to commend its adoption as a college anthem, to supplement “O Davidson.”

HYMN TO DAVIDSON
(Men of Harlech)

Unto thee, dear alma mater,
He would sing with truest ardor
Thy high praise and matchless honor,
Shining ever fair.

Chorus:
Heaven's peace attend thee!
God His favor lend thee!
To thy name a glorious fame,
And Truth her blessings send thee.

Loyal our devotion ever,
None our love to thee can sever:
Faithful sons and true forever,
Davidson, to thee.

Sweet have been the years together;
May they still extend thee pleasure,
Hope and love that knows no measure,
Linger evermore.

Horatio Alger figures on the campus. A Modern Renaissance, fired with the desire to uplift and purify literary ideals, conceived the famous Polly Ho Society, so named by a crafty combination of the two well-known names. The founders of the club soon had a following consisting of the outstanding social, moral, and intellectual leaders among students, alumni, and faculty. The progress of the club was remarkable, and in the spring, the Crimson-White declares, the club was pushing its way to a place of preeminence. This honorary group is rapidly proving a leader along with such other honorary organizations as Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. The club has been reorganized this fall and applications for membership are numerous. It is branded as Alabama’s most inspiring and exclusive club.

The man who wakes up to find himself famous hasn’t been entirely asleep. The prestige of Omicron Delta Kappa assures the success of the new system. Two benefits should result from such a ceremony as is planned by the Omicron Delta Kappa. The first of these will accrue to the fraternity itself, and the second will accrue to the honorary fraternities in general, reviving interest on the part of all the students of the college.

MOO COW MOO

A number of students at the University of Kentucky are “milking their way through college,” declares a news item appearing in the Cento, of Centre College. The skill they acquired back home in the cow stable, with the battered bucket and the three-legged milking stool, is enabling hundreds of these energetic farm boys to pay all or part of their expenses in the agricultural colleges of a number of southern states, according to the survey on which the Cento article is based.

IN GOOD SHAPE

“Wesleyan Girls in Good Physical Trim,” reads a headline in The Watchtower, which comes to us from Wesleyan College down in Georgia; and the article which follows that declaration seems to justify the statement. Physical examinations reveal the fact that very few of the Wesleyan girls are suffering from physical defects of any nature, and that the members of the senior class are almost ideal specimens of physical perfection. The girls vary in weight from eighty-seven to one hundred and seventy-five pounds, according to statistics, and in height they measure anywhere from four feet and seven inches to five feet and ten and one-half. Swimming is said to be largely responsible for the ideal physical condition of the Wesleyan students.

LITTLE DROPS OF WATER

Co-eds passing by Candler Hall (one of the male dormitories at the University of Georgia) will be careful to wear “slickers” and carry their umbrellas in the future, declares The Red and Black, in an article describing the narrow escape of a group of co-eds last week. It seems that the male students of the university object to the co-eds passing beneath the windows of their dormitory, and last week when a crowd of the girl students made a short-cut across the lawn in front of the hall, four courageous fellows, armed with overflowing water pails, began a raid on the trespassers, who made a hurried exit in time to escape serious damage.

College professors are still insisting that automobiles interfere with studies, but none of them seem to realize how much studies interfere with automobiles.

Kings Mountain boasts of something new to this jazz-mad world. It is a 30-piece orchestra, which advertises that it “positively will not play for dances.”

The return of football reminds us that those who failed to get hurt last season are perhaps hoping to do better this year.