THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1926

Prominent Speakers to Appear on ‘Y’ Program in Next Few Meetings

Exceptionally Good Program is Being Arranged by Cabinet for Winter Months

Speakers for the Y. M. C. A. vesper services have been secured to fill all dates up to February 28, except January 17, which is next Sunday. Efforts are being made to get Pat Crawford to speak then. Pat is a recent graduate of Davidson and, in addition to having been a star on the baseball and basketball teams while here, he has had a very successful career in professional athletics since leaving college. He has played baseball in Chattanooga, Tenn., and in Charlotte, and is now head coach of Gastonia High School, which won the state football championship this fall.

Mr. Will Hendren, of Winston-Salem, will address the Y. M. C. A. on January 24. Mr. Hendren, who is now practicing law in Winston-Salem, has the distinction of being the president of the North Carolina Bar Association. He is well known throughout the state and is highly recommended as a talented and forceful speaker.

On January 31 Bishop Edward A. Penick, of Charlotte, will be here. Bishop Penick made a favorable impression on all his hearers last year. He delivered a scholarly and masterful talk dealing with live topics of vital interest to students. He is bishop of the diocese of North Carolina.

On the first Sunday in February, Mr. Stitt Wilson, a thinker and lecturer of nationwide fame, is to talk. Mr. Wilson has been especially interested in Y. M. C. A. work for the past few years and it is under the Southern division of the Association that he is now touring the South visiting the different colleges and universities, for the purpose of addressing the student bodies. Mr. Wilson is a modern thinker and is sure to give everyone who hears him a new outlook on life or a new viewpoint on the subjects he discusses.

A deputation from Louisville Theological Seminary is to have charge of the vesper service on February 14. Davidson has several alumni attending this seminary and the deputation will probably be composed of some of these men.

Dr. D. H. Ogden, pastor of one of the largest Presbyterian churches in Mobile, Ala., will be at Davidson for a series of talks. The first of these will probably be at the “Y” service on February 21. He will talk at chapel in the mornings and right after supper in the evenings for several days, following his talk at the vesper service. This will be the annual Life-Work meeting held by the Y. M. C. A. each spring. Dr. Ogden is recognized as one of the best orators and finest preachers in the South. His services are much in demand by other colleges and Davidson is fortunate in having him accept her invitation. Dr. Ogden has sent two sons to Davidson, one of whom is now a student here.

Boxing Exhibition to be Held in Gym

Pugilistic fans of the college and vicinity will be given a treat at the wrestling match Saturday night. Just before or after this meet with the grapplers from Concord, Captain Elkins has arranged for two bouts to be staged. The contestants will all be students and the participants have not as yet been decided upon.

This will be a novelty to the student body, which has been working hard for a regular boxing team to represent the college for years. However, there is small chance of a team being developed to engage in intercollegiate boxing at least before next year. The bouts this year will be confined to intra-mural limits with the possibility of a team for next year.

Captain Elkins has been working hard on the men who have been coming out to practices. Since the holidays the number has dropped off slightly but Captain Elkins reports a list of about 40 men who are showing real interest and among these he says there is some good material. Boxing is one of the few exercises that develops coordination of all the parts of the body and it is for this reason that the army has for years encouraged it. Captain Elkins is interested in all men who go out for any branch of athletics to come out and take an interest in the new sport.

“That’s a swell dresser,” said Peewee McCravey as he looked in the furniture window.

Ministerial Band Is Addressed By Professor Davis

The Ministerial Band convened on last Sunday afternoon in Shearer Hall. This was the first meeting of the new year and was well attended, some 30 members being present. The meeting opened with a song and a prayer followed by a short testimonial meeting. At this time each member told of his experience in personal work during the holidays. Each member had taken part in some form of church activity ranging from teaching Sunday School to leading Bible classes.

After these testimonies, Prof. P. H. Davis delivered a convincing talk on the need of men in the pulpit today. He pointed out in a striking manner how the members of the Band as candidates for the ministry were undertaking the most responsible profession that one might choose. He told how church members of today want ministers with well-rounded educations, thoroughly versed in the practical knowledge of the day beside their theological instruction. Mr. Davis asked that they so choose their line of studies that they might be quoted as authorities in latter years on scientific questions. He pointed out, however, that they should not neglect in the least their theological studies. This side of their education, he said, was their main object in life at present and was their greatest preparation for preaching the Gospel.

DAVIDSON’S GREATEST SCHEDULE (Continued from page 1)

between the rival teams and time given to work up the various topics. In meeting Pittsburg a most excellent team will be met. This school is making a far-reaching Southern tour and will meet the principal schools in the South then. The question for this debate will be, Resolved, That the United States Government should own and operate the coal mines ofthe country. The Freshman class has an opportunity to show that it has debaters among its midst. Wake Forest will be met at Wake Forest sometime in April and the University of North Carolina will be met at Davidson also in the same month. Last year’s Freshmen defeated Wake Forest and lost to the Carolina Freshmen. Davidson College has been long noted for her excellence along forensic lines as well as in the various other outdoor sports, and in oratory and debating many men have achieved success in the business world after having acquired the fundamentals in the literary halls of Davidson. Among the outstanding alumni who have been acclaimed the world over are such men as the late President Woodrow Wilson and ex-Gov. Robert B. Glenn, of North Carolina.

DR. HARDING TALKS
(Continued from page 1)
too often were “les Bon Mots” lost by translators in their effort to give their readers a liberal translation of some antiquated work. Due to the fact that there were only two Southerners on the program, the other one being R. B. Steele, of Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn., it was a signal honor bestowed upon this Davidson professor when he was placed as a speaker. The three associations mentioned above, while meeting together at numerous times and at several social gatherings, held private “round table” discussions. At the Wednesday morning meeting of the Philological Association, a memorial session was convened in honor of Basil Lanneau Gildersleeve, who during his lifetime was one of the outstanding men in his profession in the world.

WILDCATS WIN
(Continued from page 1)
loop the basket when a marker should have been made. The game was a fine exhibition of clean and hard playing throughout. The line-up:
Davidson. Position. Duke.
Laird (6) ................ Hartness (10)
RF Huie (10) .......... Bullock (7)
LF Wilson (5) .......... Moss (9)
C Anderson (8) ........ Weaver
RG Harrison (9) ....... Bennett
LG Substitutions: Simpson (2) for Laird; Hudgins for Huie. Duke: Butler (5) for Bullock; Kelley for Weaver.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
SOPHOMORE FRESHMEN JUNIOR-SENIOR

the Blue Ridge conferences, with a view to working up a large delegation to attend the convention next June.

“Y” CABINET MAKES
(Continued from page 1)
realizes its opportunities in this work and anticipates good results. Due to some waning interest in representing Davidson at the summer conferences at Blue Ridge, a committee with A. Y. Bowie as chairman has been appointed and will be active throughout the year in an effort to stir up enthusiasm among the students about the Blue Ridge conferences. A small admission fee will be charged.

PRESENTATION OF THREE ONE-ACT PLAYS
(Continued from page 1)
the Davidson Dramatic Club has given in some years, and everyone will do well to see them.

Thur
A.M. Economics 1
P.M. Bible 1, Bible 2, Applied Math., Astronomy, Geology

Fri
A.M. German 1, Greek 1, German 2, Greek 2
P.M. Physics 1, Physics 2, 3, 4, Public Speaking

Sat
A.M. Political Science
P.M. Accounting 1, 2, English 1, English 2, English 3, 4, 5, 6

Tues
A.M. Spanish 1, Spanish 2, Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6
P.M. Phys. and Hyg., Psychology 1, 2

Wed
A.M. Economics 3
P.M. R.O.T.C. 1, R.O.T.C. 2, R.O.T.C. 3, 4

Thur
A.M. French 1, French 2, French 3
P.M. Philosophy 1, 2

Fri
A.M. Latin 1, Latin 2, Law, Education 2
P.M. Biology 1, Biology 2, Biology 3, 4

Sat
A.M. History 1, History 2, 3, 4, 5
P.M. Chemistry 1, Chemistry 2, Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, Math. 1, Math. 2, Math. 3, 4, Political Science, Education 1, Christian Evidences or Church History

For your approval we suggest that the class of ‘20 be named the Knights of Joseph. This could easily be done if a red band be placed around each Senior's coat. Root Tee Toot, Root Tee Toot! We're the boys from the Institute. Yellow and blue, yellow and blue, TWENTY-SIX!

G-E Motorized Power—an ideal combination of electric motor and control properly fitted to the individual task—is at work the world-over, relieving workers more and more for better and more profitable pursuits. A new series of G-E advertisements showing what electricity is doing in many fields will be sent on request. Ask for Booklet GEK-1.

Work without Toil
If he accomplishes much. The United States has over one-quarter electrical horsepower installed per capita. Orient, has but .04 horsepower. Electric shovel and storage battery locomotive are shown at a completely electrified open-pit coal mine, at Colstrip, Montana. Ten or twelve hours a day toils the coolie. If he carries all he can, he moves one ton one mile in one day. For that he receives twenty cents. Japan, leading country of the Cheap labor! Yet compared with our American worker, receiving at least twenty-five times as much for an eight-hour day, the coolie is expensive labor. In America we move one ton one mile for less than one cent. The coolie, working by hand, accomplishes little; while the American, with electricity’s aid, Plenty of electricity and cheap electricity—these are two great advantages which America enjoys over the rest of the world. While our present generating capacity is 20,600,000 kilowatts, new developments call for 3,000,000 kilowatts more per year. To college men and women—potential leaders—will fall the duty of finding more and still more work for electricity, with less and still less toil for our workers. For the task is but begun!

GENERAL ELECTRIC
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.