THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1926

Report on Loyalty League Given Out by Ernest Milton

The Alumni Secretary has just sent out letters to all alumni, giving a review of the Loyalty League subscriptions. The result of the drive for more subscribers, although gratifying, should be bigger and better. The class of 1873 is the oldest class to contribute; two of its members have made pledges. The class of 1910 has the largest number of members to contribute, while the class of 1914 has made the largest contribution. Every class since 1885, except the classes of 1890 and 1925, up to the past graduating class, has made contributions. There has been a total of 205 alumni who have made contributions, and there have been two honorary contributions.

J. C. Nixon, class of 1909, was married on August 23rd, to Miss Elizabeth Elliot, of Pineville, Kentucky.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N.C.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see
VERNON S. BROYLES
QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

LOYALTY LEAGUE

Florida Alumni Will Be Organized in Holidays

The Davidsonian from time to time is printing a list of contributors to the Loyalty League, the Alumni at their last luncheon voting that this be done. Within a short time the entire list will be up-to-date. The recent contributors come from diversified territory, with a wide range in classes. A few of them follow:

Rev. F. A. Barnes, ’95, Concord, N.C.
Dr. J. R. Story, '21, Shreveport, La.
Rev. J. C. Storey, ’95, Marion, N.C.
Dr. C. C. Kelley, ’09, Hartford, Conn.
Rev. J. N. H. Summerell, ’73, New Bern, N.C.
Rev. J. A. McQueen, ’05, Batesville, Arkansas.
Rev. T. G. Johnston, '96, Greensboro, Georgia.
W. T. Allen, ’20, Nashville, Tenn.
Dr. C. H. Watt, ’06, Thomasville, Ga.
Dr. D. H. Nisbet, ’13, Charlotte, N.C.
Dr. A. B. Reese, '17, New York, N.Y.
J. O. Harris, ’10, Atlanta, Ga.
Dr. L. G. Henderson, ’92, Albany, Ga.
W. P. Harris, ’20, Durham, N.C.
Rev. E. M. Munroe, ’06, Taylor, Texas.
Dr. E. C. Kline, ’21, Philadelphia, Pa.
W. P. Sprunt, ’04, Wilmington, N.C.
W. M. Orr, ’10, Statesville, N.C.
John James, ’09, Charlotte, N.C.
Karl Sherrill, ’12, Statesville, N.C.
W. S. Robertson, ’14, Richmond, Va.
W. W. Grier, ’94, Charlotte, N.C.
A. D. King, ’21, Bristol, Va.-Tenn.
Taylor McCoy, ’87, Staunton, Va.
Rev. Roy Smith, ’10, Franklin, W.Va.
J. G. Newton, '18, Poplarsville, Miss.

In view of the fact that the 1927 Wildcat football team has the University of Florida on its schedule, plans are now on foot to organize a Davidson alumni association in that section during the Christmas holidays. There will be meetings at Jacksonville, Fla., and at Thomasville and Atlanta, Ga. Jacksonville, together with the surrounding towns, contains about fifteen alumni. The association to be organized in Thomasville will cover a radius of some fifty miles and will include such towns as Quitman, Valdosta, Moultrie, Tifton, Albany, Bainbridge, and Quincy and Tallahassee, Fla. There are quite a few alumni in this section who will make up the association to be formed at Thomasville.

The organization at Atlanta will be the largest of the three, since there are so many alumni in Atlanta. This meeting will probably be held just before the Christmas holidays are over. Students at present in Davidson who live in Atlanta will be present at this meeting together with the alumni and will speak of the Davidson of today.

In this series of meetings, some of the most prominent men in Georgia and Florida who have succeeded in the political world, business, and religious life will speak. It is the belief of the secretary that the whole South should be covered with associations as well as North Carolina. Twelve different states and 18 classes are represented in the above 20 additions to membership in the Loyalty League.

After Christmas, the Alumni Secretary will make further efforts toward the organizing of more associations.associations in North Carolina.

EIGHT THOUSAND, SIX HUNDRED NEGROES IN COLLEGE

More than 8,600 Negro students were enrolled last year in American colleges and universities, over 7,000 of this number being in Negro colleges, and 1,600 in other institutions, according to an article in one of the current magazines. The former conferred degrees on more than 1,000 students, 33 of whom received the degree of Master of Arts, 519 that of Bachelor of Arts, and 173 that of Bachelor of Science. There were also graduates in medicine, 72 in dentistry, 38 in pharmacy, 37 in law, and 47 in theology. In addition, the big northern universities conferred degrees on about 300 Negro students. Several received the degree of Ph.D., and a number were elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa. The number graduating last year was about three times as great as that of five years ago. Among the M.A. graduates at Harvard was Countee Cullen, the young Negro poet who last year won the Whitter Bynner poetry prize in a national competition open to all college students.

WORK TO BEGIN AT ONCE
(Continued from page 1)

administration structure, but enlargement of them indicated that final completion would require a total of $600,000. An association is to be formed in North Carolina. Doctor Lorenz says persons who are to be fat will be fat regardless and that it is dangerous to attempt to “reduce.” As far as women are concerned, that is just “daring” them. — The Pittsburgh Chronicle Telegraph.

Most of the “ideas for mothers” in the popular magazines have a distinct flavor of having been written by fathers. — The Baltimore Evening Sun.

GET YOUR GIRL

All men who have the privilege of turning in sponsor pictures for the 1927 Quips and Cranks are requested to secure the same before their return to the campus following the holidays. The final date for the acceptance of these pictures will be January 10th.

DON WHARTON, Editor.

DEVELOPING CAMPUS VIEWS
PHOTOGRAPHY
W. A. ALEXANDER
4 EAST
ENLARGING
REFINISHING

Drinks TO SERVE YOU Candy
Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N. C.
Smokes

25% Reduction on TICKETS!

Dyeing, Cleaning, Pressing, Altering

WHO'S WHO in service and quality? Ask any customer—24 hour service
Branch Mgr. Harllee Bordeaux.

In Statesville We Are Located

Before the present south wing was completed, classes were held in temporary buildings, and other structures inadequate to proper work but necessary under the stringent circumstances. It was thought that the classroom space in the new south wing would alleviate the cramped condition to a great degree, but in the meantime, the institution had been growing in numbers, and the present facilities are still inadequate, the laboratory work being scattered in several buildings with insufficient room to properly function. Since this generous donation has been given to the college, officials of Davidson will begin a concerted effort to raise sufficient funds to complete the entire building. As soon as $100,000 is obtained from alumni and friends, work will be started on the auditorium, which will constitute the central unit, and from an economical standpoint, authorities assert that it would be a saving to be able to let a contract for the northern unit at the same time. The latter section will be largely devoted to laboratories.

A scientist predicts liquid coal. He’s behind the times. Indianapolis has been using liquid coal for breathing purposes for at least five years. — The South Bend Tribune.

A Princeton man is accused of saying that the pun is no longer the lowest form of wit; it is the lampoon. The two colleges are now even in the race. — Lynchburg News.

No woman counts you a success until you have outwitted the man who is reputed to have outwitted everybody else. — The Baltimore Evening Sun.

This coat gives you a sense of freedom and comfort that few others can. But—with such easy lines as these—it must have exactly the right cut in order to be smart. Here you have it, cut by Society Brand, correct — smart in every line. Either single or double-breasted.

DRY CLEANERS
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Branch Office, 21 Rumple
TATE-BROWN COMPANY
Society Brand
$45 to $55