4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. - Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. B. BIBB - Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN - Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS - Athletic Editor
J. M. McCONNELL - Associate Editor
J. M. McCONNELL - Alumni Editor
J. M. McCONNELL - Exchange Editor
J. M. McCONNELL - Humorous Editor
J. M. McCONNELL - Alumni Editor
J. M. McCONNELL - Assignment Editor
J. M. McCONNELL - Feature Editor
J. M. McCONNELL - Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS - Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD - Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE - Assistant Business Manager
J. A. McALPIN - Subscription Manager
J. L. ALBRIGHT - Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY - Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
A. N. BROOKS
R. H. McILWAINE
J. L. ELY
J. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH
A. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD
B. WILSON
J. R. WEAVER
B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

When Davidson students rise today at Duke to sing “College Ties,” many hearts will fill with sadness. Today’s game marks
the close of the football career of nineteen courageous and loyal Wildcat gridiron heroes, and the college hymn for them
today will be a true “Swan Song.”

Davidson needs more efficient protection from the fire menace. The tragedy that last Sunday night, along with the “Fire” that
disturbed our otherwise tranquil existence, blew onto our campus with the Queens Glee Club last Tuesday afternoon has brought this
need vividly to our attention.

The Wildcat Spirit of which Davidson students have boasted so much and so loudly in recent years is seemingly very
“wild.” In fact, it must be roaming around at large—no evidence of it being present on our campus in recent
weeks, except during infrequent intervals at which time it has paid us a short and totally unsatisfactory return visit. Coaches
Younger and Tilson have worked wonders with our football team. To them goes much of the credit for the success
of the Wildcats in the State championship race this fall. We trust they both shall live a long time—and always
at Davidson!

THANKSGIVING

Championship football games, long-anticipated hunting expeditions, eggnog parties, and a general spirit of irreverence have seemingly supplanted the old-fashioned ardor
of Thanksgiving. From the profoundly reverent stock of our Puritan forbears, who once each year bowed their heads in worshipful
thanksgiving to a Heavenly Father, there has seemingly sprung a pleasure-mad and joy-seeking race.

This reversal of form on the part of the great American public is to be excused none the more because
it is in line with a general change of attitude throughout the world. What America needs most today is a
vigorous reaction toward old-fashioned religion. The worship of the gods of Pleasure, Intellect, Industrialism, and Reason have failed thus far
to bring either peace or brotherly love into the world. They have failed also to bring satisfaction to the individuals
who have willingly bowed themselves down in worship before them.

We have spent too much time of late in satisfying our appetites for pleasure and for material wealth. We have
ignored too long the blessings of a benevolent God. Thanksgiving Day furnishes us with a fine opportunity to pause for
a moment, at least, in our Hell-bent rampage, and meditate on the bountiful blessings that have come to us through
a generous and patient Father. It is fitting that we should rest today from the hilarious and chaotic existence that
we are leading, and contemplate the greater joys that will come to us through a life of unselfish service to
our God and to our fellow-man.

Too little attention is being paid to the cultivation of the soul in our modernistic rush toward education. We are
flitting along gleefully in search of new religion, forgetting in the light-heartedness of our mad rush the duty we owe
to the God of our fathers, by whose mercy and patience alone we are permitted to continue our irreverent rampage.
“But, the Lord, our God is a jealous God”—and even His divine patience will reach a point at last where
it will rebel against our ingratitude.

College men as a class should be especially thankful to God for the blessings that are theirs, but Davidson men,
by virtue of the greater benefits conferred upon them, should this day show more profound and thankful appreciation to their
Lord. Football championships are things of which we may well feel proud, but in our enthusiasm over football, let us
not forget to be grateful to Him this day for the manifold blessings received from Him during the past year.

FOR BETTER GOVERNMENT

It is generally rumored about the campus that the Student Council is preparing to clarify the constitution under which our
Student Government is maintained. This clarification will be widely welcomed by those who have long felt the need for a
strict interpretation of the rules by which we are governed.

The need of a definite stand by the Council in regard to the various provisions of the Constitution, by virtue
of which it operates as a government body, has long been felt, and it seems that now the need is
to be met. The need along these lines has been particularly acute with reference to the exact meaning of those
provisions of the Constitution having reference to cheating, drinking, and gambling. The lack of a strict interpretation by the council
on these classes has undoubtedly led to inadequate enforcement by the council and misunderstanding on the part of the student
body.

All students have known that gambling in its usual forms was not to be tolerated on our campus, but there
has been considerable laxity in the matter of wiping out the evils of gambling in its lesser forms, such as
matching for coins and drinks, betting on prize fights, football games, and world series contests. There is no room for
discrimination along these lines. Gambling in the form of dice tossing and card playing cannot be outlawed if we are
to tolerate the petty forms that will lead ultimately to the collapse of our student government system. The Council must
maintain a consistent position on such matters.

With regards to cheating, the need for a broad interpretation is perhaps more emphatic than in any other department of
our student government. How can our Council excuse itself for dismissing students who cheat on examinations and reviews, while it
winks at cheating that prevails in many classrooms during daily recitations? In certain lecture courses, where the tendency is toward
open forum discussions rather than to questioning, the practice of referring to textbooks may perhaps be justified. But, in classes,
where the instructors have definitely prohibited open textbooks and prompting among the students, our Council must take steps to wipe
out an influence that is threatening to rob the Council of its power to punish violators.

The clause in our Constitution which prohibits the use of or possession of intoxicating liquors on the campus is undoubtedly
the bugaboo of the whole governmental policy. We have instructed the Council to punish students who are known to imbibe
of intoxicants, and yet, the students in some instances openly dare the council to exercise its authority in this direction.
Fortunately, Davidson students are not given to drink in any alarming numbers but if our Council would uphold the Constitution,
it must see that liquors are not permitted on our campus in fact as well as in fancy.

The time has come when the Council must take a definite stand on the matter of Constitutional enforcement. Students must
understand exactly what is permitted and what is prohibited of them, and after that, the Council must act with finality
and unswerving authority in enforcing the student Constitution.

Instead of the “Amen” or “Glory to God,” the cries of ecstatic Christians, these religionists have special phrases of their
own. At Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College “Beat Washington” is answered fervently when the student’s name is called in class:
Professors, it will be observed, do not always approve of this worship in its most perfervid forms.

When Old Friends Must Part
(EDITORIAL COMMENT ON THE DAVIDSON-P. C. BREAK)

Editor’s Note: The following comment on the severance of athletic relationships between Davidson and the Presbyterian College of South Carolina
has been prompted by an editorial which appeared in the November 20th issue of the Presbyterian College Blue Stocking, a
weekly publication at the Clinton college. Previous to this time, The Davidsonian has refrained from expressing any opinion on the
matter, feeling that it was a controversy to be settled by the athletic associations of the two schools. We regret
that the action of the P. C. Blue Stocking has forced us to carry the matter to print, but, in
all fairness to Davidson students and athletic authorities, we felt compelled to do this after the manner...in which the break
was treated by our contemporary journal. In deference to P. C., we have reproduced the editorial which appeared in the
Blue Stocking.

BLUE STOCKING IRONY DAVIDSON TACTICS

The recent announcement of Davidson’s 1927 football schedule cannot fail to draw a smile from the students of at least
two colleges. Davidson drops Presbyterian College and Hampden-Sidney from her list of opponents to take on Florida and the Citadel.
Whatever might be the statements given out to newspaper reporters, it requires no Sherlock Holmes to see that Davidson does
not wish to risk defeat again at the hands of two of her strongest opponents of the past season. According
to the statement of her own coach, Davidson received a powerful boost towards winning over P. C. in Winthrop stadium
through the errors of an inefficient and stubborn referee. As it was, the margin of victory was a field goal.
Davidson went down before Hampden-Sidney to the score of 12 to 0. Now it does not take a lot of
reasoning to reach the conclusion that it does no good to Davidson’s football reputation to be held to a close
score by a college one-third her size or even to come out at the small end of the score.

Davidson has plenty of plausible reasons to the man that does not know the inside story. “Because of the unpleasantness
that occurred in the Rock Hill game,” etc., she does not wish to meet the P. C. football team for
several years. Her managers speak of the wisdom of putting off this contest for several reasons because of the “existing
animosity” between the two schools. Accepting this resolution of the Wildcat managers, P. C. agrees not to stage the game
next year, and accordingly returns the unsigned contract for a track meet between the two schools in the spring. But
Davidson does not wish to cancel the meet. And despite the suggestion from P. C., she does not wish to
cancel the freshman game scheduled for today. We fail at all to see how this can square up with Davidson’s
standpoint with regard to next year’s football game. If there is any animosity between the two institutions, we agree that
the football game should be put off. But why not track and freshman competition as well? Animosities between colleges certainly
extend further than play on a gridiron. Can the animosity die down next spring and give way to a spirit
of sportsmanship during a track meet, only to regain such strength in the fall that a football game should be
out of the question? We think not.

As a matter of fact, the only real reason for Davidson’s action, a reason which is as plain as day
to anyone who thinks at all, is that the Wildcats fear defeat and loss of prestige. Put off the game
a few years, we hear. Yes, that would solve the problem, because in a couple of years Stamps, Wilson Witherspoon,
and the veterans who have made this year’s team such a strong one, will have passed out of the ranks
of college football players. There has never been any animosity between Presbyterian College and Davidson that we know of. If
Davidson maintains that there is such a feeling, we will not deny it. Certainly it did not originate on our
side. But if Davidson wants to make a breach, she has taken the shortest path toward reaching her goal. We
do not know what stand other teams and other colleges might take in our stead, but we sincerely hope that
the breach thus made by Davidson athletic officials will remain open for an indefinite period. We do not care to
meet teams with such spirit. P. C. does not drop small schools from her schedule simply because she dreads defeat
at the hands of a smaller institution. We want the games for the sake of the school spirit and healthy
competition that goes with them.

DAVIDSON’S REPLY UNNECESSARY ROUGHNESS

The current issue of the Presbyterian College Blue Stocking treats in detail the severance of gridiron relationships between Davidson and
P. C. A news story appearing on the front page of P. C.’s most estimable journal discusses all the causes
and effects of the break, and carries in toto the correspondence which led to the breach. On the editorial page
of the Blue Stocking, its talented editor goes further into the matter of a break between the two Presbyterian Colleges,
and sarcastically upbraids the Davidson authorities for initiating the move leading to the break. The malicious insinuations of the editor
in his comment on the break between the two colleges will be vigorously attacked by all Davidson men who chance
to read his words. He flagrantly criticizes Davidson for her inconsistency in the matter of athletic relationships with his college,
and proceeds to censure the action of our athletic directors in no mistakable fashion. He maintains that no feeling of
animosity between the two schools has existed as far as P. C. students are concerned, and yet he jumps into
a word attack against the Davidson authorities such as could only result from a strong feeling of animosity on his
part. If these critics of inconsistency were only more consistent themselves!

Presbyterian College is fortunate in that Davidson authorities were forced to take the first step in the direction of a
break. This forced move by the Davidson managers has given P. C. the sentimental sympathy of a vast horde of
newspaper readers, who unacquainted with the circumstances leading to the break, are falling in line with P. C. in her
pathetic appeal for more consistent sportsmanship. Davidson students and alumni have long insisted that P. C. be dropped from the
Davidson schedule, and the break came neither as a surprise nor a disappointment to them. The demand for the severance
of athletic relationships between the two colleges has long been heard from Davidson supporters who have known of the hostility
resulting from a strained attitude on the part of both colleges. Back in 1924, when the P. C. coaches and
athletic authorities attempted to rule on the eligibility of Davidson players, the demand for a break, as far as Davidson
was concerned, became distinctly insistent. Sentimentality and a feeling of denominational fellowship led Davidson officials to disregard the howl for
dropping P. C. from the Wildcat schedule.

Then, in 1925, the two colleges met at Rock Hill and Davidson won after a hard-fought and cleanly-played game. The
feeling of friendship that prevailed during the contest led to the belief among Davidson alumni and students that at last
P. C. and Davidson could meet in friendly combat and that the ill-feeling that had characterized previous gridiron contests between
the two schools had passed. This feeling alone permitted Davidson authorities to schedule a game with P. C. for the
present season, and even then there were many who believed the continuance of gridiron connections with P. C. a grave
error. The wisdom of the latter group was clearly demonstrated in the game at Rock Hill several weeks ago, when
Davidson again turned back the Blue Stockings, but only after the most disagreeable battle in the memory of present-day students.

Davidson students both orally and through the columns of their student publications commended the Presbyterian College for the ability of
its players and for the aggressiveness that characterized their fight. Davidson has never minimized the talents or the gameness of
its opponents and we were frank to admit that P. C. possessed a football team capable of troubling even better
teams than that of Davidson. But, as to the sportsmanship displayed by the P. C. players, Davidson students could not
but criticize. Davidson men are taught that under no conditions is a player to strike at an official. Davidson men
are taught that profanity directed either at an opponent or an official is unwarranted on the athletic field, and naturally
we were surprised and disgusted when P. C. players showed so little consideration for the ethics of the game. Louder
than ever came the demand that P. C. be dropped from our gridiron schedule, and, at last, the insistent cry
was heeded: Davidson authorities have acted wisely and in accordance with the wishes and demands of their student and alumni
constituents.

The P. C. editor wonders why Davidson desires to drop P. C. from her football schedule and not from the
schedules of other Wildcat teams. His question is well taken, but, too impatient to wait a reply from Davidson, this
all-knowing oracle and journalist proceeds to answer his own inquiry. “It requires no Sherlock Holmes,” he declares, “to see that
Davidson does not wish to risk defeat again at the hands of two of her strongest opponents.” (Here the P.
C. editor, fearful lest his arguments smack too strongly of prejudice, regrettably draws Hampden-Sidney into the squabble he wants to
stir up.) The very absurdity of the Blue Stocking’s contention that Davidson has dropped P. C. because she fears a
defeat in 1927 is offensive. If there is any semblance of truth in such a statement, will the P. C.
editor please explain to us why Davidson has proceeded to substitute a contest with the Citadel in lieu of the
hitherto annual P. C. game? And will he also explain to us why Davidson, if she was acting because of
fear of defeat, would have substituted a team of the (Continued on page 8)
