THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1926

Ronald Wilson—“Let’s play that new church game.”
Hope To Be—“You'll have to teach it to me.”
R. W.—"All right, now you be Christianity and I’ll be a heathen; we'll meet in the moonlight and I'll embrace Christianity.”

EAT AT THE ASTOR
LUNCH SERVICE
THE BEST OF COOKING

Golf Prospects Appear Much Better This Year
New Men Show Up Well During Early Rounds

The prospects for the golf team this year are much brighter than they were last year. Work on the golf course is being carried on rapidly and it is hoped that the course will soon be in first-class shape. Although only one man, McGill, from last year’s team, is back, the first three men, at least, will be better than the first three men of last year’s team. Wolfe, of the Freshman class, is an exceptionally good player. These two will fight it out for the first position on the team. Martin, of the Junior class, will in all probability be the third man. The other three men will be chosen later in the year. The team is planning to get matches with Concord, Salisbury, Gastonia, and probably Charlotte. The first matches with these teams will be played away from Davidson, but return matches will probably be gotten later, which will be played on the local course.

Several Freshmen have been showing up well during the past few weeks’ play. Some of them are Culthen, Mills, Love, Clemmons, and Young. This is one sport in which the Freshmen are eligible for the varsity team and it is quite probable that some of these will be members.

“Y” Column

On Sunday night at the vesper service the “Y” will put on its student meeting of the year. The student body as a whole is invited and expected to take a part in this general service of worship. Hymns of a particularly vibrant theme will be chosen and the whole service will center on the one word, “Worship.” The students will also have the pleasure of hearing two men out of their own midst, namely, Bill Covington and Ronald Wilson. These men have been chosen because of their intimate knowledge of “Y” service and worship in its many phases. They will have a message for every man, and they want to talk to you. Will you be there?

Clancy Williams has taken charge of the Department of Sunday Schools and will take up his duties immediately. Copies of one of the books mentioned last week have arrived and will be distributed among the students. The title is “Men, Women, and God.” Watch for a review of it next week.

At the vesper service on Sunday, October 17, the “Y” will bring Edgar Wood as the speaker. Rev. Mr. Wood is the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury and is a brother of Bill Wood, now on the campus. He himself is a Davidson alumnus, ever made here, having been at the fore in many campus activities. He is a young man with a wonderful appeal he has for young men. Coupled with his earnestness, his ability is excelled by none. Be sure to hear this man of God.

The “Y” Secretary announces that the membership cards will be issued some time this week.

One of the most neglected fields of endeavor is that in regard to the Church paper.

Walter Camp Memorial Planned by Committee
Funds Sought for Memorial to Father of American Football

New York City—With the reopening of college classrooms throughout the country during this past week, and the familiar dull thud of shoeleather against pigskin heard on a thousand athletic fields, comes the announcement from the Walter Camp Memorial Committee that “Walter Camp Day” is to be celebrated in every section of the country as a signal mark of respect to the memory of the man who did so much to make football the pre-eminent American college game. Out of deference to the wishes of athletic councils in various sections no one day has been set aside by the committee for general observance, but each community has been allowed to designate its own date for the memorial. In scores of college communities there are to be special Walter Camp Day games. Some of those already arranged are:

Oct. 16—New York University vs. Tulane.
Oct. 23—Harvard vs. Dartmouth.
Oct. 30—Columbia vs. Cornell.
Nov. 2—N. Y. City College vs. Manhattan College.13—Syracuse vs. Colgate. Nov. 20—Fordham vs. Georgetown. Nov. 25—Pittsburgh vs. Penn-State. Nov. 25—Nebraska vs. Washington. The observance of Walter Camp Day is part of the plan whereby the colleges and universities of the entire nation are uniting under the auspices of the National Collegiate Athletic Association with the alumni of Yale to raise a fund of $300,000 for the erection of a monumental Walter Camp Memorial Gateway as an entrance to the Yale Bowl and other athletic fields at New Haven. On either side of the huge gateway will be great bronze panels on which will be cut the names of every college and university contributing to the fund. The committee, headed by E. K. Hall, of Dartmouth, chairman of the Football Rules Committee, is bending every effort to have on these panels the name of every college and university in America where football is played today, in order that this tribute to the memory of the “Father of American Football” may be truly a national memorial. Since the announcement of the Walter Camp Memorial plans was made late last spring, it has been decided to allow the school boys of the nation to join in the undertaking. As a result, thousands of public and private high schools are now busily engaged in raising a share of the memorial fund. Each contributing school will receive a specially engraved certificate of participation, and will be given recognition by having the names of their respective state athletic associations engraved on the panels flanking the memorial gateway.

Do you ever take time to read your Church paper? The Christian Observer announces that November 7-14 is to be held as “Church Paper Week,” during which special effort will be made to place some type of Christian publication in every home. The “Y” room is always supplied with various Church papers and it is hoped that everyone will get the habit. Along with this added activity in this field, we might well observe the little note taken from a Church paper: “Many a man whose life is now dark, dreary, and burdensome, might, had he been wiser and read such pages as supply and foster noble ideals, have been able to say: ‘My mind to me a kingdom is Such perfect joy therein I find.’” Can we too say that?

The Blue Stockings attempted 18 passes and completed only two; Davidson tried 27. Hogrefe’s returns of Grey’s kicks often put his team in an advantageous position. The Blue Stockings had one of the most brilliant records, and that alone is a great factor in the winning that with his well-founded thought and excellent delivery, you have a message that stars. 

Score by periods:
Presbyterian 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson 0 3 0 0—3

Summary—Presbyterian substitutions: Blake for Griffith, McKenzie for Barnwell, Blalock for Timmons, Kolb for Neighbors, Moffatt for Owens, Barnwell for McKenzie, McKenzie for Kirven, Kirven for Wilson, Wilson for Moffatt, Robinson for Witherspoon, Witherspoon for Robinson, Griffith for Witherspoon, Kirven for McKenzie. Davidson substitutions: Kell for Black, Sappenfield for Wilson, J. Grey for McColgan, Arrowood for Pinkney, McGeachy for Bohannon, Mauldin for Ritchie, Nesbit for Leggette, Laws for Mauldin, Bohannon for McGeachy, Wilson for Sappenfield, McColgan for J. Grey, Leggette for Nesbit, Harrison for Black, Pinckney for Arrowood, McGeachy for Bohannon, Sappenfield for Wilson, J. Grey for McColgan, Nesbitt for Leggette, Mauldin for Lincoln, Kell for Nesbitt, and Farrell for Kell. Scoring: Field goal, Davidson (Grey). Officials: Referee, Hartsell (N. C. State); umpire, Flowers (Georgia Tech); headlinesman, Norman (Roanoke). Time, 15-minute quarters.

The Tsen-Tse-Kwan-Pao, official gazette of Pekin, is believed to be the oldest newspaper in the world. It was founded more than 1,000 years ago, and many of its editors have been decapitated because of statements they printed.

GET THESE IN NOW
All students who have not handed in a schedule of their classes to the Quips and Cranks should give the same immediately to Tyree Dillard, 407 Watts. This will have to be done in order to get an appointment arranged with the White Studio photographer who is in Davidson now. Appointment cards for men who have turned in their schedules will be mailed 48 hours in advance. They will facilitate the work by coming to the annual office, on the first floor of Eu Hall, at the specified time.

Professional Notices
Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65-3
DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance
Commercial National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays 12 to 2

CHIROPRACTOR
DR. LEE E. KISER
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Phones 169 and 706

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
811, 812, 813, 814 and 815 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-J

DR. G. A. LAZENBY
DENTIST
Statesville, N. C.
Phone 494

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
A complete line of Stationery, Toilet Articles and Kodak Supplies
We are ready to serve you
Drugs, Cigarettes, Cigars
Dunhill & Kaywoodie Pipes
Drinks
Candy
Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N. C.
Smokes
In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU

This Hotel is Yours to use for all FEEDS AND BANQUETS no matter how large or how small, we can serve you. Regular board---reasonable---and the best your money can buy. Music in the evenings.
MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
DAVIDSON, N. C.