THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1926

Colonel F. W. Rowell Sends Greetings To Students and Members of R. O. T. C.

To the Students of Davidson College.
By Courtesy of “The Davidsonian.”

To you who have faith in the righteous purpose of American institutions: who understand their significance in the advancement of
Christian civilization, and who believe that their immediate stability depends upon the best assurance the world has of reaching a
safer and saner state of human affairs—Greetings:

Common to all the peoples on earth, there are three passions that animate human life and motivate all that is
finest and most enduring in human endeavor. They correspond to three essential elements of human nature. The first of these
springs from the Spiritual instinct. It is man's jealous passion for his religious conviction. His love for God as he
conceives Him to be.

THE SWEETHEART OF ROTA-CEE

The hardest-hearted girl of all
Beneath the vaulted skies—
See her standing like a phantom bold
With fury in her eyes.
The frown on her face and the twitch on her lips
Have a meaning that’s clear to me:
Her fate she seals
By the figure she wields.
She's the sweetheart of Rota-Cee.

She loves the cave-man, not the sheik,
Nor any that's faint at heart—
Ties them all on to her apron strings,
With her they cannot part.
The tone of her voice and her arrogant air
Give her a charm that I cannot see,
All the same
She's the sweetheart of Rota-Cee.

The second arises from man's Creative instinct. It is the more personal love for mother, wife or husband, children, and
all that is included in that magic word “home.”

The third passion comes from man's consciousness of his original environment of his nativity. It is his instinct for the
dust from which he sprang and to which he will in time return. It is his love for the land
of his birth.

These three passions are sanctioned in the Divine commandments. God spake these words and said: “I, the Lord thy God,
am a jealous God.” And He promises mercy to them that love and obey Him. Speaking again He said: “Honor
thy father and thy mother.” And, in the last phase of the same command, He gave the motive for the
third of the three great human passions when He said: “Do this—honor thy father and thy mother... that thy days
may be long in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.”

To have these three passions is to possess a guarantee of that fullness of life that is our natural desire.
To be without any one of them is to be incomplete.

Love of one’s country—the passion which aims to serve one’s country; either in defending it from invasion, or protecting its
rights, and maintaining its laws and institutions in vigor and purity—is patriotism. Patriotism is the characteristic of a good citizen;
the noblest passion that animates a man in the character of a citizen.

Christ was a good citizen—a patriot. He lived, serving and defending the Kingdom of God on earth, maintaining its laws
in vigor and purity. He died, that the institutions of God's Kingdom, the Church and the Holy Sacraments, might be
established. That was the first of the four great dramas that have been written in the Book of Life of
every American young man and woman of the present and all future generations.

Christ upon the cross—Columbus guided by an inspired intelligence—The Patriots signing the American Declaration of Independence and, again—The Patriots, bleeding
and dying on Flanders Field, in the dark forests of the Argonne; writing in their life's blood another declaration—the declaration
that Freedom Shall Not Perish From the Earth: Such are the traditions of our people, a people who have received
a Land from the hand of God if such a fulfillment of the Divine Word has ever come to pass,
a people who have honored their fathers, served their country, and striven to defend it and keep its institutions vigorous
and pure.

These are your traditions. They are a part of your environment by inheritance. They are the four corner-stones of the
foundation on which your structure of life will be built. It is very fitting that your Alma Mater, who has
given so generously to the environment of the temporal as well as the spiritual life of the Nation; whose campus
knew the young manhood of that world-commanding personality—Woodrow Wilson, and whose very name is taken from the supreme sacrifice of
one who fell in battle that the Institutions of Freedom might be established, should, in its curriculum provide those opportunities
now offered you in the name of the R. O. T. C., to strengthen in yourselves moral qualities, and, by
practice and study, to acquire ability to serve more efficiently in whatever walk of life you may be called.

With confidence in America, I am,
Your fellow citizen,
F. W. Rowell,
Colonel of Infantry, United States Army.

He wouldn’t drink, and wouldn’t bet,
He couldn't drive, and wouldn’t pet;
So they shoved him out in the storm and wet,
He’s the kind of a man that girls forget.

We will honor her name—
She's the sweetheart of Rota-Cee.
Their hearts she breaks and leavespocketbooks the same— While on bended knees her love they plead She laughs them all
to shame. A hiss on her lips and a whirl on her heels, From her clutch again they're free She
winks an eye To her arms they fly. She's the sweetheart of Rota-Cee. —H.L, Shelby.

The man worth while, Is the man who can smile When his girl signs that letter; Captain George Sway.

Services of Officers Are Deeply Appreciated Faculty Sends Note of Thanks to Officers Posted at Davidson

H. Weems, Commander Davidson, North Carolina.

Dear Sir: At a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Davidson College Athletic Association, the undersigned were appointed a
committee to convey to you and your organization our appreciation of the fine co-operation you have rendered to us in
developing wrestling and boxing at Davidson College. We especially desire to thank you personally for your splendid coaching and handling
of the wrestling teams. We feel that their uniform success in intercollegiate contests is due largely to your efforts with
them. Captain Elkins also has placed us under lasting obligation by his interest in boxing and the manner in which
he has developed a like interest among our students. We should also like for you to express our appreciation to
the sergeants for the efficient manner in which they have handled the traffic situation at our games on the home
field. We regard this as a most difficult and important problem, and they have handled it in a way that
has been most satisfactory.

Cordially and sincerely yours, J. M. Douglas, A. Currie, Committee.

Boyce Mastina: "I'll get you anything you want.” She—“Then GET OUT!”

SCENES OF THE R. O. T. C. SUMMER CAMP AT McCLELLAN

From left to right, top row—Morning calisthenics, Second row—Arrival at camp; smoke screen, Third row—The camp swimming pool; officers' horse
show. Fourth row—Athletic tests upon arrival; stunts at the horse show; pole vaulting at the camp inter-collegiate track meet. machine
gun practice.

JUNIORS WILL TRY (Continued from page 9)

Sophomores who have not yet been designated. Systematized coaching and training has been or will be started to get these
men in shape for athletic events. Bell, Broy, Hamil, Sims, Crinkley, Farrell, Mitchell, Shelby, Webb, Woodham will constitute the nucleus
for the track team. The boxing and wrestling team will consist of Bell, Crinkley, Farrell, Keerans, Mellwaine, Mitchell, Webb, Calhoun,
Justice, Broyles, Shelby, Sims, Woodham, Treverton, and some of the foregoing taking part in both boxing and wrestling. A tennis
team and a swimming team will be organized and every man slated for the camp will be given an opportunity
to improve his marksmanship with the rifle before leaving. It will be noted that because of the small number of
men attending camp, each man must take part in two or more athletic events or sports. While a number of
other colleges will have from three to five times as many men, it is a foregone conclusion that the old
Wildcat spirit will help to produce a better record than last year when the same spirit still prevailed but when
no plan for making a record had been perfected before the opening of camp.

COLLEGE OFFICIALS (Continued from page 1)

Marched to the flag pole and retreat sounded and the ceremonies relevant to the lowering of the flag will be
observed. The R. O. T. C. band is planning to give a concert after retreat and will play popular as
well as classical selections. Some of the pieces will be “Priests March from Athaliah,” “La Paloma,” “Stars and Stripes Forever,”
“Lassus Trombone,” “Sleepy Time Gal,” and “Always.” As a special feature, a farce picture will be shown on Saturday night,
titled “Behind the Front.” This picture is a burlesque on some of the characters in war, but blends in with
the theme of the week and will form a fitting ending to the military period.

Batting Averages

Player AB H Avg
Black 4 4 .500
Vance 26 12 .462
Woodham 28 9 .391
Alford 26 10 .385
Laird 21 7 .333
Johnson 22 6 .273
Davis 5 1 .200
Dulin 18 3 .167
J. King 8 1 .125
F. Kugler 19 2 .105
Long 4 0 .000
Oden 2 0 .000
Penn 11 2 .182
Harrison 2 0 .000
McColgan 1 0 .000

Team average: .275

Penn sprinted across the tape after he had covered the track for over seven laps. That was undoubtedly one of
the best events of the afternoon, and everyone, we believe, had great admiration for a man who could show a
spurt of speed as he did after almost a two-mile run. He who kisses and runs away will live to
kiss another—girl.
