Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

“Last year to the utmost. If THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1926

PLAYING THE GAME With Withers Basketball Begins All-State Freshmen Varsity Wrestling New Managers

The game tomorrow night between the Davidson Wildcats and Salisbury “Y” promises to be a close affair. This will probably
be one of the closest opening games that Davidson has had in a number of years, as the Salisbury outfit
is touted as a crack aggregation. Davidson has had only a few weeks of practice and practically no intensive training
in preparation for the game, but will no doubt win.

More and closer competition is being experienced this season by the letter men than last year. McAuley, Hudgins, Kugler, and
Calhoun are pushing the four veterans. A number of other candidates are working hard and have great potentialities.

Hunt and DeCamp, guards on the freshman football team, were awarded places on all-state football teams. Although both were not
placed on the same composite teams, each garnered enough votes to win places on the two different selections. More potential
material was on the fresh squad this year than in a long time. But it takes more than one season
to develop men of this sort as the great majority of them had had little or no experience before entering
college. Coach Mattox turned out a very creditable aggregation in spite of all these hindrances.

Matmen Progress as Season Nears

The wrestling team of Davidson has continued to show up well, and, as the preliminary stage of training ends, Captain
Frierson feels confident that this year will again be proof of Davidson's superiority in this line of athletics. Although he
makes no actual statement as to the degree of success he expects, it is very easy to see that there
is little fear of ruining the brilliant record that our wrestling team has made in the past. The large number
of candidates for the varsity squad is, in itself, proof that a great interest is being taken in this sport.

Five varsity letter men, Captain Frierson, Manager Davis, Estridge, Crinkley, and Mauldin form the nucleus of the squad about which
Captain Weems intends forming the new squad. About 35 upper-classmen are practicing regularly and those who are showing up especially
well are Bohannon, Cromartie, Flythe, Garrison, Hansel, Harper, Harrell, Herriott, Hill, and Vance. This is a strong squad and as
they get into training it is easy to see that only the very best men will be able to make
the varsity team. An unusually large number of freshmen have turned out and although they show lack of experience as
a whole, under the expert coaching of Capt. George Weems an increasing number are showing that they have the making
of real wrestlers. Two freshmen will be taken on the trip to West Point to meet the Army team and
this is an added incentive to each of the new men to do his very best to make the squad.
Those freshmen that are now showing up as good material are Reynolds, Hunt, and Carson. With more training, any of
these three boys will be a valuable addition to the squad.

The first meet of the schedule will be with the Concord team on the 7th of January, and the team
will have a chance to try its strength very early in the season. After this, the schedule is as follows:
State—Here, January 15th.
Concord—Here, January 31st.
Army—There, February 5th.
Duke—Here, February 13th.
V. P. I.—Here, February 19th.
Carolina—Here, February 26th.

The Davidson basketball team will play their first game of the season on Saturday, December 18th, in the gym at
7:00 o’clock sharp. In order to have a game full of interest, in which the team might be thoroughly tested,
Salisbury “Y” was asked to fill this date, and consequently the Wildcats will take the floor against a dangerous and
skilled team, one of the best in the state. Flake Laird, captain of last year’s team, will be in the
line-up for Salisbury and those who have seen him play may anticipate some spectacular shooting. Salisbury, so far this year,
has been running away in all its games, and it will be necessary for as many students as possible to
back the Cats in this opening game.

The line-up is still uncertain, but the positions will probably be filled by the following: Captain Tom Anderson, Ben Wilson,
Johnnie Simpson, Bennie McCauley, Droopy Hudgins, Charlie Harrison, D. M. Calhoun, and Glenn Calhoun. All of these have been showing
up well in practice, being coached during the latter part of the football season.

Hunt Lands Berth On All-State Team

Coach Mattox’s Wildkittens were not as fortunate as their older brothers in placing men on the mythical all-state eleven, for
where three varsity men were so honored, only one freshman was awarded a position. It is considerably harder to pick
an all-state freshman team than a varsity, because the yearling schedules are not nearly so comprehensive, and thus it is
rather difficult for one scribe to choose eleven outstanding players, and at the same time be fair to all. In
this year’s pick, selected by L. N. Byrd, of the University, Hunt, dependable Wildkitten forward, was the only Davidson man.
Hunt, who weighs 172 pounds, has been a power of strength to the Kitten line, and his work has been
an outstanding feature of every game.

FOR THAT TASTE OF Home Cooking On Your Way Home New York Cafe CHARLOTTE, N.C. 29 West Trade St

Need Double Treatment

Vicks’ double action (inhaled and absorbed) brings relief. VICKS OVER 17 MILLION JARS USED YEARLY

---

No mention wasMade in the columns early in the fall of the meritorious showing made by several members of Davidson’s
tennis team in the Southern Tournament held during the past summer at Greenville, S.C. Carr and McCutcheon, winners of the
N.C. State Collegiate Championship last spring, fought their way to the finals in the tournament, bowing to two veterans by
a close score. J.T. Roddey, paired with a fellow-townsman from Rock Hill, sprang the surprise of the day by giving
the ultimate champions a close shave in the first round. Bob Crosland, ex-'28, was another Davidson entrant and performed creditably.
The try-outs will be held during this week, Coach Weems announces, and competition is very keen among the various contestants
as each is anxious to make a place on the team.

Congratulations are forthcoming to J.L. Robinson, Junior, of Gastonia, who was recently elected varsity manager of the Wildcat football team
for next autumn. “Jake” has worked hard since his freshman year and the honor comes to him deservingly. W.L. Lingle
and Rod McRae were the other Junior assistants during the past year and should come in for their full share
of applause. Both worked hard and energetically. Kelly, Hall, and Mauze, Sophomores, have been named assistants for the 1927 season.

An ambitious move has been made on the part of several men, in attempting to organize a fencing team here
at Davidson. A number of Southern schools have such teams and at least one, South Carolina, has attempted to arrange
a match with Davidson. This is a move in the right direction and should be followed up with a great
display of interest.

The debate with V.P.I. was on the same subject as the George Washington debate. The members of the V.P.I. team
were Messrs. Coribelle and Guil. Mr. Coribelle was the first speaker, and Mr. Guil the second. The George Washington University
team has just completed an extensive Southern tour on which they met several colleges, contending for both sides of the
query stated above. During the spring and summer of 1927, they will go to Europe to meet forensic teams from
the leading colleges and universities of Great Britain. This debate closed the fall season for Davidson. During the spring they
will meet five or six colleges, four of which will be included in a tour of the Northern states. The
complete schedule for this trip will be announced soon and tryouts will be held soon after the mid-year examinations.

Professor Watts has based his paper on a considerable amount of manuscript material left by Racine, the greatest of the
French tragedians. This material consists of correspondence, variants to his published works, and original studies, revealing interesting information concerning Racine’s
life, environment, literary methods, and religious belief.

The headquarters of all the visiting associations will be located at the Harvard Union, which will be open to the
members of the associations during their stay in Cambridge. Philip Brooks’ house, in the College Yard, will be reserved as
a rest house for ladies. The Longfellow house and many other exhibitions and institutions will be open to the members
of the associations at certain hours.

By Coach “Dutch” Hengeveld, before being turned over to Coach “Monk.” Signals were practiced for the first time Monday, also
scrimmage plays, with the following temporary line-up of the varsity squad: Wilson, center; Anderson and MacCauley, forwards; Harrison and Simpson,
guards. The squad is planning to return early after Christmas to get in shape for their post-holiday games. There will,
in all probability, be no cut in the squad until then. The others who have been showing up well in
practice are Joe McConnel, Crawford, Dick Grey, Lacy Hunt, Joe Hall, Monroe Gilmour, and John Kugler. In order to help
practice and provide better facilities for shooting goals, two new backboards and nets have been fixed on the sides of
the gym. This will facilitate the method of handling the large squads which are being trained at present, and will
also aid a great deal in the development of the team. This is the first time that so many baskets
have been provided for the players.

A gale washes the mother-ship of the Government's chasers ashore and leaves the rum-runners unscathed — but the wind never
was mindful of man’s standards. — San Antonio Evening News.

These are the real “dog days,” not in Summer; these are the days when they enjoy themselves — the bird
dogs in the day and the hounds at night — The Asheville Citizen.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING Charlotte, N.C.

Introducing to the readers of The Davidsonian, Rev. J. GRAY McALLISTER, D.D., Litt. D., LL. D., Professor of the English
Bible, UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY, RICHMOND, VIRGINIA.

Hunt, who tips the scales at about 200 pounds, was chosen. Carson, DeArmon, and Hampton also played. Matthews and Brohard
showed much promise, and the former, especially, deserves honorable mention on any state-wide pick. The frosh team has completed a
season of questionable success, but a great deal of likely material is going up to Coach Monk for his 1927
varsity, and it is a safe bet that some of the present “rats” will be holding down jobs in the
places of departed Wildcats when Doctor Charlie buries his rabbit feet on Richardson Field next fall.

Planters appear to have felt the jar of the bumper in that bumper cotton crop. — The Louisville Times.

Selby Ice Cream Co. GOOD Statesville, N.C.

Splendid holiday selections in these fine Heidelberg - Wolfe Weather Proof Knit Coats. Smart, imported fabrics, well tailored along 1926
lines. For gifts and holiday wear, they are unsurpassed. One big special group for College Men, $30.00. STREET MEN'S FLOOR
SECTION. Exclusive Agents in Charlotte for “Fashion Park” Suits.
