Vol. XIV FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 9, 1926

FORENSIC PROGRAM TO INCLUDE EIGHT MEETS WITH LEADING TEAMS

George Washington, Sewanee, William and Mary, Gettysburg, Rutgers, Emory, and Duke Will Be Met—Six Next Spring

The heaviest debating schedule in the history of the college was announced recently by L. D. Wharton, Jr., president of
the Davidson Forensic Council. The varsity schedule includes debates with eight of the leading colleges and universities of the south
and east. Schools that will be met by the Davidson varsity teams this season are from seven different states, in
the following order: Virginia Tech, George Washington University, University of the South (Sewanee), William and Mary, Gettysburg College, Rutgers University,
Emory, and Duke University. Freshman debates with the University of North Carolina have also been scheduled for the fourth consecutive
year.

The Davidson schedule will be opened Friday night when the Wildcats engage the Virginia Polytechnic Institute at Blacksburg on the
“light wine and beer” topic. Layton McCutchen and Geer Davis are the Davidson men on this team. They will meet
the George Washington University team at Davidson on the same subject next Monday evening. In the spring, Davidson will make
its first debating tour, meeting William and Mary, Gettysburg College, and Rutgers University on this trip. Another trip will be
made to Greensboro to meet the Duke University team, while home debates have been scheduled with Emory and Sewanee. To
carry on this program, three more teams will be selected following the Christmas holidays. There are five varsity debaters in
addition to the two men who will make their emblems this week. They are: C. W. Williams, who debated against
(Continued on page 7)

Students Respond to Hangchow Fund

With approximately three-fourths of the $1,000 quota of the Hangchow College Fund subscribed after the first-night canvass, reports from the
campaign headquarters indicated that the entire amount would be raised. The subscription lists were formally opened Tuesday night, when a
room-to-room canvass of the dormitories was commenced under the direction of J. F. Pinkney, campaign leader. At the time that
The Davidsonian went to press, reports were incomplete, but subscriptions at that time totaled more than $750. Preparations for the
campaign were begun last week when several talks explaining the purpose of the Hangchow Fund were made to the students
in chapel. Among those who spoke were Jim Pinkney, Bill Covington, and Professors Bailey and Williams. As they explained, the
purpose of the campaign was to raise funds for the support of Warren Cox, who is teaching chemistry in Hangchow
Christian College, China. The students of Davidson have supported Cox in his work for the last two years, and a
canvass of the students is made each year to pledge funds for his upkeep.

The management of the room-to-room canvass was put in charge of a captain of each dormitory. These captains had others
to canvass each floor so that the campaign was finished quickly and efficiently. There were a good many men who
were not seen, however, but they will be reached within the next few days. Those who did not have the
opportunity to help in raising this fund because they were not seen can give their pledge to Pinkney, campaign leader.
Watts Dormitory, with a total of about $165 in cash and pledges, led in the total amount given by a
single dormitory. East and West Dormitories both totaled about $150, with the other smaller buildings following. (Continued on page 2)

Davidson Proposed as Member of New South Atlantic Athletic Conference

Davidson College will probably enter a Mid-Atlantic Conference with other teams if such reaches a material form, for the opinion
of officials at Davidson indicated that this step met their approval, that it would fulfill a tremendous need, and that
only good would result therefrom. “I think it’s a mighty fine thing,” said Prof. W. W. Wood, graduate manager of
athletics, “and I would like to see Davidson allied with other teams in the proposed conference. If it was limited
to include schools within an area that would not be too large, I believe the Athletic Council, composed of alumni
and athletic officials here, would sanction the entrance of Davidson College into such an association.” Monk Younger, head coach of
athletics at Davidson, concurred with this opinion. “Gaining admission into the Southern Conference for any team is out of the
question,” he said. “It is already too large, and the application of any school would not even be considered.” He
went on to say that a number of schools need the proposed alignment, and that it was discussed last week
at the Jacksonville conference of coaches from southern institutions, with indications that several schools would withdraw from the present association
to join the proposed organization.

“Several teams today feel as if they are isolated because they are not in any conference,” he said. “The new
conference would receive approbation from the student body, as indicated by personal expressions of a favorable nature.” This association will
be called “The Middle Atlantic Intercollegiate Conference.” Among the proposed members are some of the leading colleges and universities in
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. This will give the association many strong teams without a great distance
separating them. The proposed personnel is limited to 12 or 15 members. Among the colleges considered are William and Mary,
and the University of Virginia, in Virginia; Duke University, Wake Forest, and Davidson, in North Carolina; Furman, Presbyterian College, and
Citadel, in South Carolina; and Oglethorpe and Mercer, in Georgia.

INITIATED INTO PHI BETA KAPPA

Here are the four leading students of the present senior class. In recognition of their scholastic ability, they were formally
initiated into the North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa last Friday night. The public ceremony was held in
Shearer Hall. All four men are leaders in other campus activities as well as scholastic. Reading from left to right
they are: H. M. Austin, W. A. Christian, W. T. Covington, and W. S. Woods.

Doctor Martin Attends Conference of Southern Colleges at Jackson, Miss.

Educators of Southland Assemble for Annual Meeting

DAVIDSON COMPLIMENTED

School Ranks High Among Leading Colleges of Association—Many Statistics Given

The Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools of the Southern States convened in Jackson, Miss., on December 2nd and 3rd.
Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson, was in attendance as a representative of the college. He reports a pleasing
as well as profitable meeting.Trip. Although the formal OPEL NB of the inter-state contest of the Southern States Conference did
not take place until Thursday, it will be held. The club that comes out on top at the meet in
Birmingham will go to New York to compete for national honors with the winners of the various districts all over
the United States. The Davidson Choristers have practiced regularly every night for the past two weeks and have every reason
to believe that they will come out on top in the meet. The singers alone will compete in this contest,
and the orchestra, which usually accompanies the club, will not be present.

Preliminary meetings were held on Tuesday and Wednesday by the Executive Committee, the Committee on Institutions of Higher Learning, and
the Committee on Secondary Schools. The Committee on Institutions of Higher Learning was concerned more with the applications of institutions
that desired membership in the association. Out of a large number of applicants, 17 colleges were admitted, among which were
three North Carolina institutions: Elon, Guilford, and Greensboro College for Women. The Committee on Secondary Schools heard the reports of
various committees that had been working during the year on problems relating to secondary schools, both public and private. The
association admitted more than one hundred additional secondary schools and dropped about 20 from its lists.

Saturday afternoon, the stands of Davidson College were allowed to witness the first public initiation of the “D” Club. This
club is composed of those members of the student body who have earned their letter on some athletic team of
the college. The initiation was held on the campus and was well attended by the students. Starting the program, the
choir composed of Messrs. Blackshear, Green, Bill Christian, and Ed Wisco rendered several well-known melodies. They were interrupted by the
arrival of the parson, Bob Mitchell, who advanced and took his place on the platform and started his services. His
audience was composed of two members of the Street-cleaners Union, Bill Story and Mason Carroll; a fish peddler, Jim King;
an Ethiopian washerwoman, Fats Laws; two bootblacks, Jim Farrell and Don Wharton; a traffic cop, Bill Treverton; and a South
Sea dancer, Hebe McIlwaine. After the reading of the Scripture and several songs by the choir, the parson announced his
text as Literature. In his sermon, he showed the disastrous effect that literature had had on the great writers in
our history. His puns on Shakespeare’s plays were received with much hilarity on the part of his hearers. Some of
the prominent writers came in for their share of ridicule by the speaker. He was interrupted many times by shouts
from his audience and choir showing that they at least were in sympathy with his reasoning. The collection of this
illustrious audience resulted in the pastor receiving a fish and a chew of tobacco.

Following this, Buford Webb and John Ely were blindfolded and made to feed each other molasses. Each missed the other’s
mouth and poured the contents of the spoon upon the face of his opponent. Hebe McIlwaine, representative of the South
Sea, gave a very original interpretation of Gilda Grey's famous shimmy. While his costume received very little glee, his dance
was received with many howls of laughter. As a final event, the initiated were lined up for the peanut race,
having to move the peanut by the use of the nose. Interest was stimulated by the promise that the winner
would be re-membered in the private initiation. Bill Christian was the lucky winner. The initiation was closed with 15 Rahs
for the "D" Club, which caused the onlookers to scatter from force of habit.

Monday night the final and private initiation was held at the gym. All the afternoon and the early part of
the night, the roads leading from Davidson were filled with students desirous of eluding the far-famed “D” Club. All proved
in vain as the “D” Club appeased their craving for blood on the initiates.

First Home Debate

The first home varsity intercollegiate debate of the year will be held in Shearer Hall Monday night at eight o’clock,
Davidson meeting the George Washington University team on the subject “Resolved, that the Volstead Act should be amended to permit
light wines and beer.” The Davidson team composed of Layton McCutchen and Greer Davis will uphold the negative side of
the question. This will be their second contest on this question, having met the Virginia Polytechnic Institute team on the
same question in Blacksburg Friday night.

North Carolina Gamma of Phi Beta Kappa Takes in Eleven Members Friday

Nine Alumni Are Formally Initiated Into Membership

Four Students Taken

Doctor Snyder of Wofford College Delivers Fine Address at Public Ceremonies

“Scholarship can be and must be made a college activity in which there is life,” declared Dr. Henry Nelson Snyder,
president of Wofford College, in the principal address at the annual initiation of the new members by the Davidson College
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, the national honorary scholastic fraternity, here Friday night. A large audience of students, faculty members,
and townspeople heard Dr. Snyder's stirring plea for making scholarship the principal activity on the college campus. “It has been
said over and over that where the modern college really lives is not in the classroom, but rather on the
campus, where the students play and think.” Dr. Snyder urged that more interest be placed on scholastic pursuits. “When I
think of colleges, I think not of the buildings, not of the faculty, not of the trustees, nor even the
president; but rather of the immortal campus.”

Dr. Snyder explained in his address that the multitudinous array of social clubs, honorary groups, and scientific cliques that clutter
every college campus are slowly but surely throttling the life out of the classroom and destroying the interest in scholastic
endeavors. “Writers’ Clubs are taking the life out of our English classes. Drama Clubs are monopolizing the interest of students
of Shakespeare and the other great playwrights, and debating clubs are gradually supplanting the Literary Societies. Greek Letter social fraternities
are also flourishing. They thrive simply because (Continued on page 8).
