8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1926

Class of ’21 Will Hold First Reunion

A. Franklin Fricker, secretary of the class of '21, has recently sent out circular letters to the members of the class announcing the first reunion of the class which is to be held at commencement this year. Questionnaires have also been sent out with a view of obtaining more accurate information about the members of the class. The following is a copy of the letter which was sent out. Any other information about the reunion may be obtained from Mr. Fricker, 1230 Westover Ave., Norfolk, Va.

Dear Fellow Classmates:

The time for our first five-year reunion is drawing near. It’s just about four months’ time before we gather together again. And that fact makes us begin to wonder how many old faces will be on hand. To be consistent with our policy of making the Class of Twenty-one shine forth, Jicky Taylor, our venerable president, and I have been in conference on plans for a big blowout. To put across this idea of a distinctive class reunion—one that will stand out from the ordinary run of such events even as our Alma Mater stands out from the ordinary run of colleges—calls for the participation of every one of you fellows in the plans and stunts. Don't wait to be conscripted. Give us your support all the way down the line. A reunion without anybody present would be like a wedding without the bridegroom. So let us insist that you be on hand for the fray. Put down these dates now—May 30-June 2—and plan to be with the gang when the roll is called.

Then, having succeeded in getting the bunch together, we want to have a good time. That will take a small amount of money, and a large amount of brain power. For the former, Jicky and I think that an assessment on the members of the class will be satisfactory. You will have a chance to express yourself on that, so spout forth. The second problem calls for several things. Cogitate and send in some of your brain children as suggestions for some feature stunts that we can pull off. And also signify your willingness to help out with some of the physical details of such a reunion.

Finally, we want to pull off another meeting of our class by mail. You will find herein a questionnaire. Fill it out now and mail to me immediately. The answers to some of the questions will not be binding, but we want to form some ideas on the number of fellows that can be expected to attend. We will send out cards for a final check-up, some time in May. And what’s more, you will hear from us again soon.

Remember—Make old ’21 shine forth with the old-time brilliance this time!!!

Your class secretary,
A. Franklin Fricker.

Bordeaux Elected Head of New Club

The Wilmington Club, an organization created this year on the Davidson campus, is back in full swing after a few weeks of dormant silence. On last week the Wilmingtonians met and elected the new officers for the second half of the year; at this meeting Harlee Bordeaux was elected to the presidency, Duncan McEachern was made vice-president, and David Westbrook, secretary and treasurer.

Doctor Gillespie Speaks to Ministerial Band at Regular Sunday Meeting

Dr. Gillespie, president of Columbia Seminary, was the speaker at the Ministerial Band meeting Sunday afternoon at 2:15. His talk was a presentation of the “Qualifications of a Young Minister of the Gospel.”

As the first phase of his talk, Dr. Gillespie took up the necessity of thorough preparation. Asserting that the minister of the Gospel should have the most thorough preparation possible for carrying on this all-important work, he discouraged the idea of getting this preparation in six years and out of college.

In the second place, according to the speaker, a young minister must be a leader. The seminary’s task is to make “leaders of leadership” for when a young minister leaves the Seminary and enters into work in a community he immediately is expected to be a leader. In comparing this with other professions, Dr. Gillespie said that in no other occupation was it true except in the ministry. All others must by hard work show that they are leaders while a young minister must only confirm the idea.

In closing, the speaker made an appeal to the ministerial candidates to have the courage of their convictions. He expressed the belief that nothing was impossible to the man who believed it possible and he urged his hearers to have confidence in their own ability and faith in God's readiness to aid them. He referred to Paul's famous words, “I can do all things through Jesus Christ, who strengtheneth me.”

Literary Societies

Philanthropic

The regular meeting of Phi Society was held at their hall Thursday night. The query was one which was debated with much interest: Resolved, That the prisons of today should tend to reform rather than punish the prisoners. During the evening about eight men took the floor on the different sides of the question. So intense was the interest that a vote on the question was postponed until the society could center more thoroughly on the matter at a later meeting. The society will hold a feed at 8:30 tonight in the Maxwell Chambers Hotel.

Metrophilian

The Metrophilian Literary Society's meeting was featured Thursday night by a debate on the entrance of the United States into the World Court. Following this, an extemporaneous debate was held on the question of allowing Countess Vera Cathcart to enter the United States. Don Wharton and Helm won from Camper O'Neal and Roland Sims, the winners upholding the affirmative side. Following Don Stewart's win over Henry Powell on the affirmative side of the question of allowing Countess Cathcart to enter the country, the society went into business session. The retiring officers were: Fred Smith, president; W. A. Christian, vice-president; C. G. Davidson, secretary and treasurer; Tom Barr, critic.

Eumanean

At the last meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society, in place of the regular meeting an election of officers was held. The following men were elected: Wade Allison, president; Clancy Williams, vice-president; V. L. Lingle, secretary and treasurer; Fred Smith, critic. The retiring officers were: Fred Smith, president; W. A. Christian, vice-president; C. G. Davidson, secretary and treasurer; Tom Barr, critic.

HONORARY FRATERNITY (Continued from page 1)

Four freshmen, Mack King, E. R. McConnell, Dick Flynn, and A. C. Kelly, were initiated into the society. It was decided to have a feed at the next meeting, for which Clancy Williams kindly volunteered to stand half the expense.

Omega Phi Alpha, local philosophy and psychology fraternity, extended bids to four members of the Junior class who have evinced extraordinary and original interest in the above sciences.

Sigma Pi Sigma, national physics fraternity, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chemistry fraternity, elected three Seniors, three Juniors, and one Sophomore.elected one man and several weeks ago, and because of its large scope it was decided to debate it over. The question was, Resolved, That there should be a department of aeronautics. Because of limited time, there were only two speeches made from the floor. The affirmative side of the question was decided as the winner. Routine business was transacted. It was decided to begin the meeting at 7:15 in order to allow a little more time for speaking.

Alpha Phi Epsilon
Seniors
J. C. Barrington
W. H. Allison
F. T. Franklin

Juniors
W. A. Christian
C. G. Davis
T. G. McCutchen

Members will enjoy a hot dog roast, after which a short business meeting will be held. The club is working to build up the interest in the hometown as far as urging the graduates of the high school to accept Davidson as their alma mater. During the Christmas holidays, the club went in a body to the high school and presented them with a seal of Davidson to be hung in the corridor.

Sophomore
H. T. Powell

Delta Pi Kappa
On Tuesday night of March 16th, the members will meet at 127 West Broad Street. When you come up for those spring dances, bring her in. ARM NICE LINE YOUNG MEN’S DRESS TROUSERS ALSO BASEBALL GOODS ARMY SALVAGE COMPANY WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN Army Goods and General Merchandise.

Alpha Phi is a national forensic fraternity.

THE PACE THAT KILLS
In the current number of the “American Campus,” the following article appears which is universally applicable to all college life. It induces that traditional “Food for Thought.”

The activity hound is a familiar figure on every campus. He is a joiner. He mixes with the right bunch and on account of the theoretical influence he is supposed to have with various organizations gets himself elected to certain high offices. Quite often he is labeled the campus clown by those who stand off and smile. Sometimes he is a regular fellow with all the hearty blarney of a Babbit and the executive ability of a real estate merchant. Here is the plaint of a misfit who finds himself swept up in the swirl of campus currents. He says in The University Daily Kansan:

“Yes, I am swamped. But there seems no way out. The pace is set for me and I must follow it. If I don’t, the rest of the ‘gang’ will call me a ‘stick’ or a ‘grind,’ according to the part of this college life that I neglect. I am always in a hurry. Outside readings, problems, and experiments must be in on time. Dates and appointments must be kept.

“I must not disappoint my parents or my organization. They, too, seem to believe that I must keep up the pace or else be an utter failure. I want a certain percent of everything, but I am satisfied with the taste of such a mixture. If I give too much attention to activities I ‘get kicked’ by instructors and by those who believe that the ultimate aim is high grades. If I pay too much attention to high grades I ‘get razzed’ by those interested in school politics, parties, publications, and so on and on.

“I haven’t time! The Utopia of my soul, I believe, is a place where I can do as I please, when I please, and take all the time that I please in doing that thing without being rushed by this demon popularly called, ‘college education.’”—V. M. I. Cadet.

IN A NEW LIGHT
Criticism of college football by those who have never played the game has occurred so frequently of late as to occasion little or no excitement in undergraduate or alumni circles. But the pronouncement of a man who has been not only a player but a star in the sport is entitled to greater consideration. “I believe quite frankly that the majority of college football players do not enjoy playing the game,” says George Owen, Jr., former Harvard all-round athlete, in The Independent of November 7. Owen, who had the unique distinction of winning nine major letters while in college, captained three varsity teams and played football on three elevens which defeated Yale largely through his individual brilliancy. He admits of exceptions to his generalization, but believes they are the men who would enjoy any fight. The real reason for his dislike of football lies in the terrific grind necessary to keep in the running. “You can’t play the game and smile both.” Press publicity and the attitude of the alumnus, he believes, are the factors which affect the players tremendously. With the possibility of failure preying on his mind, the player’s capacity for enjoyment of the game as a game is, in many cases, completely lost. Answering the question why he plays the game, the writer points out the fine type of man with whom associations are thus made and also the fact that preparatory school experience makes it practically impossible for a man to avoid playing football when he reaches college. Considerable attention is paid to the subject of alumni and alumni attitude which he finds, at times, “the most discouraging thing of all.” The subject is not a new one, nor is the manner of treatment novel, yet the article should attract considerable attention in view of the source from whence it comes. One cannot believe that the writer, despite his apparent arraignment of the sport, regrets for a moment his participation in college football—Columbia Spectator.

IMPERIAL
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
ALL WEEK
Starting March 15th
“THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA”
WITH
Lon Chaney, Mary Philbin, Norman Kerry.
A Universal Super-Special production.

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.
Synonymous for excellent board and good service---at just the right price.

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
“Davidsonians” play five nights a week during dinner hour.
“Feeds,” “Smokes” and Banquets given special attention.

MANAGERS
E. F. BOHANNON
H. L. SHAW, Jr.
E. K. REGEN