Published By the Senior Class

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 31, 1926 No. 32

SENIORS PRESENT GIFT; CLASS ORATORS HEARD AT ANNUAL EXERCISES

Eight Stone Benches Given to College by Class of ’26

PARKER VALEDICTORIAN

Salutatory to be Delivered by Houston—Class Oration to be Given by Pullen

The annual Senior class exercises take place this year on Monday, May 31, immediately following the reception given by Master Kenneth Foreman, Jr., at his home. At this time the class president, Roland B. Parker, will officially present to the college the class gift of the Senior class. The gift is eight handsome stone benches whose attractiveness has greatly enhanced the beauty of the campus. The president will also present to the class the mascot, Kenneth Foreman, Jr., son of Prof. K. J. Foreman, of the Bible and Philosophy department of the college.

The exercises of this occasion include the class valedictory, to be delivered by Roland B. Parker; the class salutatory, to be delivered by Clarence E. Houston; and the class oration, to be delivered by E. Pullen. These men have proven their ability and their exceeding aptitude at oratory during their stay at Davidson. Parker, of Farmville, N. C., is president of this year’s Senior class, a member of the honorary fraternity council, a member of the student council, has held important offices in the Metrophilian Literary society, is an intercollegiate debater of repute, an honor roll man, and an outstanding man in every phase of student life on the campus.

Houston, of Monroe, N. C., is a prominent man in the literary circles of the campus, an honor roll man, a member of Phi (Continued on page 3)

Hon. A. M. Scales to Make Literary Address Tuesday

Prominent Greensboro Lawyer and Financier to Appear Before Students and Friends

The annual literary address, which is always one of the features of the commencement exercises, will be delivered tomorrow morning at 12:15 in the church, by Hon. A. M. Scales, of Greensboro, a prominent lawyer of the state and financier of note in Greensboro. In selecting Mr. Scales to make this address, the faculty and Senior class chose one of the most brilliant speakers of North Carolina, and a man who has been prominently mentioned as a gubernatorial candidate. He is widely known over the state, and is a lawyer of indisputable repute. He has not only proved himself an able lawyer, but he is a financier and a banker, being connected with many of the large business concerns of the Gate City of the South, as well as having his own individual interests. He is developing a section a short distance out of Greensboro that bids in time to be one of the most exclusive and beautiful residential suburbs, not only of Greensboro, but over the entire South. 

Mr. Scales several years ago headed the $1,000,000 campaign of the several Presbyterian institutions in North Carolina, and was largely responsible for its successful completion. His interest, as manifested by his consent to conduct this campaign, lies with the institutions of learning, and by his experience and through his ability he will be (Continued on page 7)

Trustees, Alumni and Athletic Association Are to Meet Tomorrow

The annual June meeting of the board of trustees of Davidson will be held tomorrow morning, the meeting scheduled to start at 9:30 a.m., with Dr. W. L. Lingle, of Richmond, Va., chairman of the board, presiding. Later in the morning this will be followed by a meeting of the Alumni Association, at a luncheon, and the Alumni Athletic Association, all of which are important meetings at this time. It is expected that the board will be concerned particularly with further consideration of the report of Dr. Robert H. Kelly, executive secretary of the Association of American Colleges. Dr. Kelly made a comprehensive report of his findings at Davidson at the February meeting of the trustees, and the board deemed it important enough to be printed. It will be off the press in June. One of the college officials offered the comment that nothing has happened at Davidson within the last 25 years that has caused as much discussion as the report of Dr. Kelly. The latter is credited with knowing more about Davidson than the college officials themselves, proving that this investigator made a thorough search into Davidson College and left no obstacle in the path of his research.

Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson, will make his semi-annual report to the trustees, and one of the most important announcements to be included will be the statement that the offer of $75,000 by the General Education Board of New York had been matched with $125,000, this total fund of $200,000 to go into the endowment. The committee appointed to make recommendations to the retirement of members of the faculty has been working. They will advise as to the length of service before retirement, the compensation that will be given to the retired instructor, as well as the age of retirement. (Continued on page 2)

During the course of this hour many friends and parents of students visited the home. The house was beautifully decorated with wild flowers in the class colors of purple and gold, and the dining room, where the refreshments were served, was further enhanced in its beauty by numerous candles. The refreshments consisted of an ice course, punch, and mints. The little mascot was dressed in a costume of lavender and white, which carried out to a degree the colors of the class. He was assisted in receiving his guests by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. K. J. Foreman. Assisting the host in entertaining were Mrs. W. W. Woods, Mrs.Vowles, Mrs. A.L. Currie, Mrs. K.E. A. Beatty, Misses Cornelia Shaw, Steele, Jean Martin, Grace James, Dorothy Finleyson, Susie Jackson, Adele Arbuckle, Lucy Martin Currie, and Alice Jane Fleagle. After the receiving, Master Foreman accompanied R. Bo Parker, president of the class, to the library, where the class day exercises were presented on the library steps. (continued on page 3)

Leading Seniors Will Speak for Oratorical Medal Monday Evening

The Senior Oratorical Contest will be held in Shearer Hall on Monday night of Commencement. The four men who will speak with the names of their speeches in order are as follows: B.C. Ratchford, “The Way to Peace?” A.H. Hollingsworth, Jr., “The Man Who Stands Alone;” A.L. Bowie, Jr., “The Man With the Open Mind,” and R. Bo Parker, “Vestiges of Inception.”

All of these men have shown themselves to be skilled as public speakers by their debating, declaiming, and the part they have shown in all of the forensic work of the school in the past four years. B.C. Ratchford served on the team which debated Bredesen College at South Carolina last year, and was one of the debaters against the Pittsburgh team this year. He was president of the Philanthropic Literary Society for the first term this year and has won both the Senior and Freshman-Sophomore debater’s medals in his society since he has been in school. A.H. Hollingsworth has also served on two intercollegiate debating teams. He was on the two-man team which defeated Washington and Lee his Sophomore year, and one of the three men who debated Atlanta this year. He won both the Freshman and Sophomore debater’s and declaimer’s medals his first year and was president of the Pandemian Society for the first term this year. He represented Davidson in the State Peace Oratorical contest this year.

A.L. Bowie has seen service in debating also. He was one of three men to serve on the team to debate Presbyterian College of South Carolina this year, and a member of the team to debate Wake Forest and defeat them last year. He won the Freshman-Sophomore debater’s medal in the Eumenean Literary Society his first year, and was assistant in Public Speaking under (Continued on page 38)

Master Kenneth J. Foreman, Jr., mascot of the class of 1926, delightfully entertained at his home this afternoon between the hours of four and five. It was an informal reception, held in the home of his parents. He was assisted by his mother, Mrs. K.J. Foreman, and his sister, Miss Mary Foreman. The guests included members of the Senior class and their friends.

Bird’s-eye view of Davidson, taken from an airplane. The picture shows part of the town, including the station, where students obtained their first impression of the future habitat for four years, the entire panoramic view of the college, and the golf course farther beyond.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF SENIOR CLASS VARIED AND COMPREHENSIVE

Ninety-One Seniors Have Made Enviable Record During Four Years

DIVERSIFIED ACTIVITIES

Athletes, Orators, Journalists, Dramatists, Scholars, Musicians Are Outstanding

Ninety-one Seniors of the class of '26, the largest number graduating that has ever represented Davidson College, will receive their diplomas at the final exercises of the commencement program, which will be held in the church next Wednesday morning. The precedent of holding the graduating exercises in the church instead of Shearer Hall was set by the class immediately preceding the present one. At 10:30 o'clock the candidates for degrees will form in front of the library and march down to the church in double file, and will take their seats in the places reserved for them. All members will wear the ancient insignia of scholastic attainment, the cap and gown. The speakers will sit upon the rostrum.

After the invocation, the award of college medals will be made. The graduating exercises will then be in order, consisting of the salutatory, the award of diplomas, the award of commissions in the reserve corps of the army to all men completing the R.O.T.C. course here, and then the valedictory address. The award of honorary degrees will then be made. After the final exercises are over, the class flag will be lowered and the strains of “College Ties” will sound softly over the green campus, as the Seniors disband, perhaps never to meet again as a whole.

The class of 1926 leaves a record behind (Continued on page 2)

Captains, Not Kings, Need of Today, Says Y Speaker

Prof. K.J. Foreman Draws Parallelism and Applies it to Modern Times

Prof. Kenneth J. Foreman, who is professor of Bible and Philosophy at Davidson, last night delivered the annual baccalaureate sermon before the Senior class, using as his subject, “Kings and Captains,” and choosing as his text, “Put kings away and in their room.” His talk centered upon the idea that kings fall while captains conquer; that kings obtain their positions by heredity, while captains work for them, and with these two thoughts in mind he drew a parallelism between kings and captains as they apply to people in modern times.

“Kings are souvenirs,” said Professor Foreman in discussing the first phase of his subject, “and that’s about all they are good for nowadays. They find it easier to earn their living by chopping wood or writing their autobiographies than by brandishing the scepter. Some have found that the penitentiary is mightier than the sword; others have discovered that royalties from publishers are more profitable than royalty in palaces. Royal families are too much like the bric-a-brac that used to decorate the mantlepiece. They are pretty to look at, but they have a way of falling down and need dusting off too soon. Kings appeal to lovers of the picturesque but not to lovers of efficiency.”

Turning to a practical application, the speaker said that “the reason the kings did (Continued on page 2)

“WE BUILD THE LADDERS BY WHICH WE ASCEND”