THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4, 1926

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE

It seems as if athletics over North Carolina in general are in a muddle just at the present time, with
three of the North Carolina colleges without a head coach—Carolina, Wake Forest, and Elon.

Crawford and Dowtin Star for Respective Teams in Loosely Played Game

The Wake Forest Freshman team defeated the Davidson Yearlings 32-23 at the Davidson gym last Monday night. The Baptist frosh
jumped into the lead at the first of the game and were never passed by the Wildkittens, although the Davidson
team crept up to within one point of tying the score twice during the last half.

The Wake Forest team obtained their early lead by the accurate shots and brilliant playing of Dowtin and Pascal, these
two forwards leading the scoring with 12 points each. The game was rather jerky, the neat shots of both teams
were creditable to any squad of fifteen men to represent Davidson in the Fourth Corp Area.

Coach Fetzer’s resignation at Carolina seems to us to be the beginning of bigger things at that institution. If recommendations
of the Asheville alumni go into effect, Carolina will have ten coaches—five of them for football.

That sounds big, and it would be, too. The theory nowadays is that brawn isn’t the essential for a good
football player, and with five coaches to develop material and give more individual attention to players, something is bound to
happen and happen fast.

Captain Daughterty recently announced to all members of the R. O. T. C. who are interested in rifle shooting that
the Davidson team would be chosen in the week of February 1-6. There are now about 35 boys trying out
for the team. From this number, 15 boys will be chosen. Besides some Sophomores and Juniors who were on last
year’s team, this year’s Freshman class shows much promise. Especially noteworthy has been the shooting of McGill, Middleton, and Albright,
who have shot almost perfect scores.

Guilford Cagemen Play Wildcat Team Saturday

The Guilford College Quakers are coming to Davidson Saturday night to mix passing, basketball skill with the Davidson Wildcats, in
the first cage game this year between Guilford and Davidson. Previous games have been called at 8:00 o'clock, but Manager
Garrison says this will be at 7:30 o'clock, giving ample time for the picture that will follow.

When the Fraser brothers left Guilford a year or two ago, the Quakers suffered a severe loss. They constituted practically
the entire team from near Greensboro, and all that was necessary was for the players to feed the inflated sphere
to them and they looped them consistently. But this year they have none of the Fraser brothers on the team,
and their record so far has been rather inauspicious. The Wildcats have fared better than the Quakers this year, the
Wildcats having lost but two games, and only one of those to a college quint—to State, whose work this year
is proving phenomenal.

The 15 men that are chosen will compose the Davidson rifle team to shoot in the Fourth Corps area meet.
This meet will last for four weeks.

No matter what team has always been, it has always been an undisputed fact that they put up a splendid
fight against opponents. They possess a determined spirit and will afford the Wildcats a nice scrap. During this week, the
Wildcats have been generally considered Junior Speaking proper.

SCORING OF DAVIDSON PLAYERS
Name | Goals | Points
Allowing | 28 | 63
Anderson | 28 | 60
Hite | 15 | 35
Hewlette | 7 | 19
Mishue | 5 | 12
Moule | 90 | 208

Wake Forest Freshmen Conquer Davidson Team 32-23 in Listless Game

The game was a little rough, both teams having a good many personals called on them. The technical fouls were
also numerous; neither team seemed able to get rid of the ball without walking a bit with it first.

The line-up:
Davidson (23) | Position | W. Forest (32)
Kerr (8) | Right forward | Dowtin (12)
Pascal (12) | Left forward | Powell (2)
Hunt (5) | Crawford (8) | Weir (2)
Right guard | Owens

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

New Hats
New Neckwear
New Sox(4) | Sturdevant (1) Left guard Substitutions: | Davidson—Winberg for Sturdevant; Gilmour for Kerr; Green for Leftwich; Leftwich for
Crawford. Wake Forest—Carter for Dowtin; Furches for Pascal; J. Powell for B. Powell. Referee, Hengeveld (Davidson). Keeper, Tilson (V. P.
I.) Time-

RECENT CHANGE IN JUNIOR (Continued from page 1)

The committee chairman, Harllee Branch, has a scheme worked out which will be original and different. The particulars of this
event will not be disclosed until a later date. The Saturday night entertainment is and every effort will be made
to make it interesting and enjoyable to the fullest extent. The Davidson-Carolina baseball game is to be played on Easter
Monday. The place of this game has not yet been definitely decided but it is probable that it will be
either Salisbury or Gastonia. The success of Junior Speaking depends largely on the students staying on the hill. There will
be fun and entertainment for all who will thus enter into the spirit of the event.

Mrs. J. E. Montgomery, of Orlando, Fla., left today for her home after a month’s stay at Davidson, on a
visit to her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Hayne Henderson.

THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE — THE BEST COOKING Charlotte, N.C.

(Continued from page 1)

Washington and Lee, with only 800 students, puts out a team that warrants more than local attention. Carolina, with over
2,000, should have a team that rivets the attention of the entire South at least. With five coaches we believe
that something will happen within the next five years at Carolina—at least in regard to football.

As for Wake Forest, Asheville alumni of that institution are taking the initiative in doing a lot of practicing, making
up for the two weeks in which they were idle during examinations. The Concord game Tuesday night afforded them an
opportunity to get in teamwork trim. From present indications, Coach Monk will start the lineup that has stepped on the
floor for most of the games so far this year. There is a possibility that one or two changes might
be made.

As to what material effect the exit of Coach Hank Garrity will have at Wake Forest remains to be seen.
His contribution to Wake Forest cannot be expressed in concrete terms, but that he made a team in the few
years that he coached there which was state champion is a splendid illustration of his ability.

In speaking of what is going to happen five years from now, thought turns to Duke University. The man who
made a great reputation at Washington and Lee is coming down to Duke next year to continue the system installed
by Coach Pat Herran this year. If Duke can keep DeHart, and with the constantly increasing student body over Durham-way,
then the Methodists will come in for a little of the honors, too.

Just at the present time, we are thinking about next year and what it is going to mean over the
state. In one sense, all three of these institutions are beginning over again, with Tebell at State and Coach Monk
at Davidson the only two coaches in the state who will continue their machines in the same system.

If we could be sure that all of the 15 letter men that are due to be back at Davidson
next year would be on hand in the fall, then for once we would like to predict that Davidson would
have the best prospect of any team in the state. But—all examination reports are not in yet. And until they
are in, we are wary about the outcome of next season. We may discuss here and there what other schools
over the state will do, but we can also discuss what Davidson will do. If Coach Monk Younger stays at
Davidson, which hundreds of alumni will want him to do, as well as every man who has ever come in
contact with him, then he will develop a team that will be a factor in any championship race.

To do that, though, he must at least have a semblance of good material. It largely rests with the alumni
and the present student body as to whether he will have such men. There is no use in beating around
the bush, so we say frankly that material in the Freshman class of this past season is woefully lacking for
varsity prospects. We can always bank on development. But take a glance at what the other classes in school have
contributed to the varsity team, and then contemplate how many of the freshmen will be running with the varsity this
coming season.

New fabrics and patterns. ADVANCE showing of new spring clothes. Light colors predominate. Blues run a close second. Tailored by
Schloss Bros., Styleplus and Keller-Heuman-Thompson.

BELK BROS. CO. AT CHARLOTTE
