THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 16, 1926

Inquiring Reporter

In selecting a question for the first issue of the ’26-’27 Davidsonian, the Inquiring Reporter thought it most appropriate to
ask of the new men the most evident of their first impressions. There were ten men interviewed, and nine of
the ten gave the same answer. It seems that the spirit evidenced by the men of the three upper classes
in speaking to the new men had impressed them more than any other characteristic of campus life. Davidson is a
school of many traditions, and it seems that the one named has served more to make the new men feel
at home, that they are a part now, than any of the many others. One of the men questioned added
that he was surprised to see the most prominent men of the student body calling the freshmen by name, and
speaking to them as to an old friend, and not showing the snobbishness that the leaders of other student bodies
had shown, leading him to expect the same of the Davidson men. If this is their strongest impression, it is
bound to be circulated through their letters, and will strengthen the name Davidson has made for itself. If this custom
has such an effect, is it not worthwhile? Cannot the older men show their spirit by continuing to help the
new men, and to make them Davidson men?

DOCTOR MARTIN GIVES (Continued from page 1)

way as to offer the greatest benefit to the individual student with special attention being paid to his native abilities
and talents. Under this system, the student with exceptional talents and a thorough foundation is permitted to advance as rapidly
as seems expedient, and is not forced to drag along slowly with his less fortunate fellows. This system is the
ideal of Davidson College, and will be installed as rapidly as appears wise, according to Dr. Martin.

Full Text of the President’s Annual Address

Editor’s Note—Below is reprinted the full text of the President’s Annual Address before the student body which was delivered by
Dr. W. J. Martin last Monday morning. Many students will find added interest in a review of his words, and
a number of members of the student body will probably want to preserve a copy of the address.

One Purpose of a College Education

In conclusion, Dr. Martin offered a number of suggestions along lines that would aid the students to get the most
benefit from their various college courses. His address occupied the major portion of the regular Monday morning student assembly, and
was received with interest and enthusiasm by the students and faculty alike.

Some of you have given earnest thought to this; others have rather hazily considered it. To some, doubtless, college attendance
is taken as a routine in their lives and they have accepted the situation without giving serious attention to it.
This, the beginning of a new year of study to some, is an opportune time to consider what you should
accomplish and why and how best to do it. In a few minutes I wish to suggest to you certain
lines of thought rather than do your thinking for you. If I were to ask for an answer to the
question “What is the chief purpose of a college education?” I should receive from you varied replies, but it seems
to me the main purpose is to train you to think. If the objective of the institution is not intellectual
it is miscalled a college and had better be known by another name. There are other functions, but this is
the central and motivating one. In some measure, all humans are thinking creatures. Our mental powers and processes are distinctive,
but not all humans think clearly, connectedly, nor are they capable of sustained thinking. Their thinking is shallow, superficial, incoherent;
short-lived. Possibly, even intellectually, up to a certain point, but it only weakens us or deprives us of vigorous development
to consider it in only one of its phases—reasoning—whereby we, by the process of thought, argue, compare, deduce, distinguish between
the real and the false, the true and the imaginary. In a loose sense and way we all think or
reason, but the hardest, the most

Keep yourself in a clean, wholesome, bodily vigor. Either too little or too much physical exercise is harmful to your
mental processes. Keep yourself as free as possible from mental worry; certainly keep down all anxiety that is not absolutely
necessary from causes beyond your control. Be temperate in life and habits. Do not spend money beyond your means. If
you are necessarily hard up let it be but an incentive to do your best work. Foolish extravagance will not
only run you in debt but destroy your peace of mind, without which it is impossible to do your best
mental work. Keep your body free from the soil of sin, the result of which is a disturbed and impotent
mind. The finest environment for your best mental activity is a simple faith in God and in His good Providence
and a life of conformity to His will. Observe regular, systematic and temperate habits of living. This applies to your
eating, exercise, recreation and sleeping. Have all your body organs functioning properly, have a good conscience, void of offense toward
God and man and you will be the more able to stress the processes of your mind. As rapidly as
possible, and this applies especially to the upper classmen, learn to grasp the subject you are studying as a whole
and do not be satisfied to simply know the bit of lesson assigned you. Make sure that you know, not
so much the facts of your subject as the subject itself—that you have mastered it and can apply it, thus
achieving that knowledge which is power.

There is an educational idea, new to America, gradually working its way in our colleges and universities. We are beginning
to think not of the course but the student as the unit. Heretofore we have been modeling our instruction on
the basis of the course as the unit. Courses are mapped, diagramed, and the student without regard to ability or
capacity is expected to receive it. Spoon feeding is

The Best-- Vance Hotel MAGAZINES DRINKS SMOKES CANDIES Walter Culbreth Co.

Thurs., Fri., Sat. For Your Shines and to Have Those Hats Cleaned and Those Suits Pressed, VisitPainful thing most tender
people can undertake is sustained thought or mental reasoning. Have you ever tried to think to the bottom of some
problem, balancing cause and effect, and arraying all the evidence to draw a well-determined conclusion? There is a great deal
of ignorance in the world, but I rather think that our greater curse is shallow, sporadic, untrained reasoning.

Reasoning is the highest mental process, and until you have trained yourself to sustained efforts in this process, you have
not become educated from the intellectual standpoint. The attainment of proficiency in this is somewhat like learning to plow. Someone
may lecture to you in learned terms about the methods of and reasons for plowing, but you will never learn
to plow unless you plow. You may, and doubtless will, have to memorize or ascertain certain facts. You should know
how to guide the mule, how to set your plowshare, the value of having it sharp, and how to hold
the handles of the plow. But all this told to you will not make you a good plowman unless you
have practiced again and again until your muscles are sore and your back aches. But, as many of you know,
by repeated efforts your muscles, your eyes, your feet, and your hands become accustomed to the task, and you become
a master plowman.

Just so in learning to reason—it is well to be told about the process, to be advised and directed, to
learn and even to memorize certain facts and laws, but to become thinkers, you must think, and to become reasoners,
you must practice reasoning. The reading of your text, close attention to your teacher, and memorizing of facts and rules
are essential, but none of these will teach you to think or reason unless you practice, continually and repeatedly, the
art of thinking or reasoning. You must form the habit of careful reasoning and develop in yourself the power of
sustained thought. Try to keep your mind on some one subject for an hour, to array its facts and reason
to a clear conclusion, and learn how little you know of that art which raises us above the brute creation
and makes leaders of men.

To accomplish this, there are certain attendant things that must be carefully observed. You must have quiet and entire freedom
from interruption for as long a period as is necessary to finish your task or until relief is demanded through
fatigue of the mind. You must learn to concentrate your thought on the subject in hand and not allow extraneous
matters to intrude and break your current of thought. While you need intellectual diversion and variety, you must refrain from
too much light intellectual diet. It takes time to restore a broken connection.

Schools are getting away from one phase of this, which might be called the "Educational Lock-step." I refer to the
grouping of students of the most varied abilities in a class and requiring all to keep the same pace. It
is ruinous to the alert, well-endowed young student through teaching him slovenly habits of work and thought and equally unfair
to the slow worker in demanding more of him than God has given him the ability to do. The harmfulness
of this practice applies to what I have called the spoon-feeding stage but especially and notably to the upper years
of a college course, when spoon-feeding should cease, and at least, the reasonably good student be given a subject to
study rather than lessons. This demands a much more intimate and personal relation between teacher and student than is attained
or is possible under our system of formal classes and class assignments. It is recognized that it is a more
expensive educational process, but it is proven, I believe, that it turns out more and better thinkers and is worth
far more than it costs.

"Education is measured by the character, energy, and ambition which the student develops; and, correspondingly, the ability of a teacher
is judged not merely by his contributions to knowledge, but by the inspirational and energizing influence of his teaching." This
will require a more continuously intimate relation between teacher and pupil—not so much in reciting and hearing recitations as in
the discussion of the subject and the training of the student in developing through his reasoning faculties his own ideas
and thoughts on the subject grasped as a whole, and the clear and logical expression of those ideas.

I should like to suggest this idea to students and teachers of Davidson. In practice, it will prove expensive, doubtless,
but through perhaps some sacrifice, in hard, but most interesting work, I believe it is possible for us, in a
measure at least, to put the idea into practical application in certain of our departments. Nothing can be accomplished, however,
without the hearty cooperation of the student in earnest work under such favorable conditions as I have suggested above, with
the safeguards he alone can assure himself of, that he may be free to do his best work under the
best possible conditions.

If there is any virtue in these things, think on them!

---

8 East Trade St. Central Shoe Shine and Hat Cleaning Parlor Charlotte, N. C.

---

GREE COLLEGE. My IN ACCORD WITH ESTABLISHED CUSTOM, FINCHLEY WILL CONDUCT EXHIBITIONS AT REGULAR INTERVALS AT YOUR THE TIME AND
PLACE OF EXHIBITS WILL BE ANNOUNCED LATER. CLOTHES HATS SHOES HABERDASHERY AND SPORTSWEAR CLOTHES TAILORED TO MEASURE FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS AND
MORE

---

FELLOW! You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

---

IMPERIAL CHARLOTTE, N. C. MILTON DORIS KENYON COMING MONDAY COLLEEN MOORE in “It Must be Love”

---

A larger measure of seasoning than you do of fruit and flour. Do not clog your mind with

---

CREDENZA, $300.00 The New VICTROLA ANDREW’S 913 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N.C. PHONIC The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000 All Models in Stock---Easy Terms NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY MUSIC STORE
