. THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1926

I set me down in class to sleep,
I hope my chum my notes will keep,
If I should snore before I wake,
Poke my ribs, for Pity’s sake.
—Gold and Black.

Up on the Hill Top
“The scene would be wonderful,” he said,
“If I had brought my glasses.”
“Oh, that’s all right,” she replied,
“I'd just as soon drink out of the bottle.”

Her face was happy,
His face was stern;
Her hand was in his'n,
His’n was in her’n.

Wood a Non-Conductor?
She—“I have electricity in my body.”
Bordeaux—“That’s funny, I didn’t feel shocked when I kissed you.”

“You'll have to take less exercise and get more sleep,” said the doctor to the dejected man.
“That’s my idea exactly; would you mind coming up to the house and telling that to the baby?”

“At my wits end,” said the king as he began to chastise the court jester.

A strong-armed gallant young Prussian,
Loved a shy and girlish little Russian,
From the sofa one night
Came a sound of delight;
The Russian the Prussian was Crussian.

Dubose—“Well, I’m half married.”
Hodgin—“What do you mean by ‘half married?’”
Dubose—“I’m willing.”

He—“Do all pretty girls pet?”
She—“I don’t know.”

“Do I bore you?” asked the mosquito as he sank his bill into the cheek of the gentleman.
“No, but how do I strike you?” asked the latter as he smote the former with a book.

A freshman went to the hardware store to buy a thermometer.
“Set it at 65 degrees,” said he to the clerk, “That’s what the doctor told me to keep my room.”

One-Sided Conversation
“Oh mother, what a funny man out there in the street,” said little Willie with wonder in his eyes, “He's
lying down on the hard road talking to a banana peeling.”

First Co-ed—“Gee, but I went to ride last night with Jack, and we had the loveliest time. Jack’s car passed
everybody.”
Second Co-ed—“Yeah, and I went to ride with Billy, and we had a lovely time. Everybody passed Billy’s car.”

Abie—“Vell, den vy don't you go on and buy the dress vat you want?”
Rachael—“But Abie, it ish too high.”
Abie—“Oi, Rachael, you vorry me. Don’t be so Scotch.”

We know a girl so dumb that when she gets in a taxi the driver leaves the “vacant” sign up.

Peterson—“Why do they always refer to a ship as ‘she?’”
Pee-Wee—“Don’t know, why?”
Peterson—“Because they both need men to manage them.”

Sue—“Is he a real nice boy?”
Susie—“No dear, you'll like him.”

“I call my girl ‘Postscript’ because her name is ‘Adeline Moore.’”

Mother—“Dear, you shouldn’t have gone riding without your coat last night; weren’t you cold?”
Prince of Wales, “Go on home and come back when you are a king.”

As hard-hearted Hannah said to the pitcher on the baseball team and nobly dis- played a “drive” that won him
a place on the team.

Little rows of zeros
Not so very quaint,
Make our graduation
Look as though it ain't.
—Gold and Black.

Elevator Boy (to traveling man)—“Well this is the fifth floor, son.”
Traveling man—“Son! Don't call me son, I'm not your son.”
Elevator boy—“Yeah, but you can’t say I didn't bring you up.”

Bruce McQueen (to girl in belt department)—“I want a belt for my girl?”
Saleslady—“What size?”
McQueen (holding out his left arm and placing his right hand just below his tape measure)—“About this size.”

Hostess (at fashionable ball)—“Oh my dear Professor, where is your wife tonight? I hope she isn’t ill.”
Professor—“Oh, for goodness sake! I felt like I was forgetting something.”

Ralph Johnston—“We have divorced milk at our boarding house.”
Miller—“Divorced milk?”
Johnston—“Yeah, separated from the cream.”

What is so rare
As a day in June?
A fish eating man eating fish with a spoon.

What is so rare
As a day in May?
A German speaking woman speaking German all day.

(Continued from page 1)
1922. During that year he did not go out for football. In 1923 Wells went out for football but failed
to show his ability. During the latter half of the season, however, he displayed a “drive” that won him a
place on the team.the reserve eleven. On November 9 of that year, he started the game against Clemson and was
first given mention by the press in the State: “Wells recovered Robinson's fumble on Davidson's 43-yard line.” Two weeks later,
he made his initial bid for fame against the Carolina eleven, for two first downs and carrying the ball to
the Tar Heel five-yard line. He also took part in the Trinity game that year and was awarded his letter
in recognition of his consistent work.

During the 1924 season, Lucien was continually in the limelight, being especially effective against State and Elon. Last year, Wells
played the greatest game of his career against Wake Forest when the Baptist offense was completely squelched, and Lucien took
the lead in a drive that snatched victory from the invaders during the last half after Wake Forest had started
with a rush. In the Carolina game last year, Wells shared honors with Hendrix in playing the Tar Heels off
their feet, although the University team took the game by a two-touchdown margin. At the close of last season, he
was elected captain of the 1926 team by a vote of the varsity players.

Lucien has been ineligible to take part in a number of games this year through a conference ruling. His play
in the State game was especially notable. Several times during that game, he broke loose for long gains. His snagging
of passes has been one of the highlights of the season. During the spring of 1925, Lucien played his wares
as a hurler by accounting.

Look out for the captain today. He wears jersey number one and expects to bring his home record to a
close with a flourish.

Prince Albert!

WHEN Greek or calculus gets you into a tight corner, tie a tin to trouble—a tidy red tin of Prince
Albert! Tamp a load of this really friendly tobacco into the bowl of your jimmy-pipe and light up. Watch the
sun crash through the clouds with every puff! P. A. can’t bite your tongue or parch your throat, no matter
how fast you feed it, because the Prince Albert process gave Bite and Parch the air at the start. Cool
as a Laplander’s lap. Sweet as apple cider. Fragrant as spring blossoms. That’s Prince Albert! One pipe-load invites another. And
you can hit P. A. from morning till midnight and it won’t hit back. Don’t put off to tomorrow what
you can smoke today. Get a tidy red tin of P. A. and turn on the sunshine now!

PRINCE ALBERT FLASHY WILDCAT HALF-BACK —no other tobacco is like it! P.A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound
and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch
removed by the Prince Albert process.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach, Wildcat, Cife, and Goldsmith. Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N.
C. THE BEST PLACE

FELLOWS! A blue suit seems to possess a kind of dignity that other suits do not have. And yet a
good blue suit doesn’t sacrifice trim smartness to this valued dignity. On the other hand, “SMITHSON” Blue Suits combine the
two qualities. Exclusive agents in Charlotte for “CAMPUS TOGS” and “ADLER COLLEGIAN CLOTHES.” A complete line of “SELZ SHOES” at
$6.00 and $8.50.

Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N.C. For things electrical necessary to your fraternity home in your efforts to make it more
modern. Stevens Electric Co.

THE VOGUE THE SHOP FOR MEN 15 E. Trade St. Mail Orders Solicited CHARLOTTE, N.C. Student Representative, R. B. McQueen.
