- + "THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1926

DR. MARTIN ATTENDS (Continued from page 1)

Dean Felts of Peabody School, Nashville, Tenn., read a paper on “College Marking Systems.” This was a study of grades
given students in colleges that are members of the Southern Association. His paper was a most interesting and suggestive one.
The opinion of the speaker was that the grades given in college are too high. The committee of which Dean
Felts is chairman was continued and was asked to make further study of the matter.

The Executive Committee brought in a report modifying the action of the Association at last year’s meeting in Charleston, S.C.,
concerning athletics. The body decided to lay down general principles in regard to the management of athletics and not to
devise detailed governing rules. The latter action was left to the various regional athletic associations.

The conference was well attended, with schools holding membership being represented. Dean Jack, of Emory University, Atlanta, Ga., was elected
president for the ensuing year and Jacksonville, Fla., was selected as the meeting place for 1927. Millsaps College and Central
High School, both of Jackson, and Mississippi College of Clinton, united in the entertainment of the association at dinner on
Thursday evening at Millsaps College. The business meeting of the evening was held afterwards in the auditorium of that institution.
The Jackson Chamber of Commerce and the citizens of that city rendered every assistance possible to make the visit one
of profit and pleasure. The conference was generally adjudged to have been a very successful one, and with that opinion
in the minds of the delegates, adjourned until 1927.

The students and townspeople of Davidson were recently favored by a visit from William Mack Lee, faithful bodyguard and cook
of Gen. Robert E. Lee. The old negro gave a very interesting talk in Shearer Hall to a fairly large-sized
audience. He was decorated with medals all across the front of his coat, and on his back he wore a
pennant bearing the name and a picture of General Lee, whom he declared he “carried not only on his back,
but in his heart also.”

Lee spoke of the “good old days” when his “Marse Bob” was here, and the only thing he had to
worry about was to carry out his wishes. He lamented the fact that the negroes of today are not as
humble and obedient as they used to be, and warned his audience that this is a “white man’s country” and
that “the Good Lord never intended for any nigger to rule.” He said that there are many negroes today who
would be better off with a good old master to take care of them, instead of having to wander around
hungry and perhaps cold and out of work.

Lee told something about his life since the death of his master. He recited a number of cities through which
he has wandered and where he has made talks. Since the war, he has become a licensed minister as well
as a speaker, and has been the pastor of and has built up several churches. At or near the close
of his address, Lee stated that he had some papers telling of his life which he was selling to Democrats
for 50 cents and to Republicans for $2.00. This paper carries a picture of Lee, and tells of his life
and also of some of his experiences during the war. It is a very interesting paper, and is the source
of Lee’s income, part of which, he declares, goes to the support and upbuilding of one of his churches.

VICTORY THEATRE MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Monday---Going Crooked, a Fox production.
Tuesday---Altars of Desire, with Mae Murray.
Wednesday---The Cat’s Pajamas, a Paramount picture.
Thursday---For Alimony Only, with Leatrice Joy.
Friday---Pals First, a First National picture.
Saturday---30 Below Zero, with Buck Jones.

DAVIDSON THEATRE “WHERE YOU SEE THE BIG ONES”
Mon. and Tues., 13th and 14th Milton Sills in the Silent Lover
Wed. and Thurs., 15th and 16th W.C. Fields in So’s Your Old Man
Friday, 17th Bebe Daniels in Stranded in Paris
Saturday, 18th Peter the Great in Wild Justice

Warner’s Broadway Theatre WHERE QUALITY MEETS
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, Dec. 16, 17, 18
COLLEEN MOORE ---IN--- TWINKLE TOES
They’re Calling it the Greatest Role Colleen Ever Had---“Twinkletoes”---The Golden Headed Little Lover of Limehouse, Who Will Dance Her Way
Into Your Heart!

Alumni Secretary Makes Rounds of Associations
Milton Visits Alumni in Raeford, Fayetteville, Wilmington, and Gastonia

During the past week the alumni secretary of Davidson College made his most successful trip of the season. He organized
two and formed alumni associations, reorganized one, and visited another. Associations were formed at Raeford and Fayetteville on Wednesday and
Thursday nights respectively, one reorganized at Wilmington on Friday night, and a visit was made to an alumni banquet meeting
in Gastonia on Saturday night.

The meeting at Raeford was in the form of a Turkey Banquet meeting, at which eleven Davidson men were present,
almost 100 percent of the alumni there. Dr. W. M. Fairly, class of ‘95, was elected president; Ryan McBryde, ‘11,
vice-president, and J. W. Currie, '04, secretary and treasurer. On the following morning the alumni secretary spoke to the Raeford
High School and named the accomplishments of Raeford boys at Davidson.

On Thursday night, in Fayetteville, T. W. Rankin, ’09, was host to 18 Davidson men at a banquet in the
Prince Charles Hotel. Mr. Rankin was elected president of the association. Dr. J. A. Shaw, '19, was elected vice-president, and
W. B. Jennings, '26, secretary and treasurer. This association at Fayetteville voluntarily sent a wedding present to Coach “Tex” Tilson
to express their appreciation for his work at Davidson.

There was no banquet meeting at Wilmington, but there was an enthusiastic gathering at the Chamber of Commerce rooms. J.
E. Evans, '10, was re-elected president; E. T. Huggins, '24, vice-president, and J. D. Howell, '20, was re-elected secretary and
treasurer. At Fayetteville and Wilmington resolutions for the publicity they gave Davidson this year, which was of quite a comprehensive
nature.

At the banquet meeting at Gastonia, elections were held for the coming year. S. A. Robinson, '99, was elected president;
R. E. Boggs, '25, vice-president, and H. A. Query was re-elected secretary after three years as an officer in the
Gastonia association. The association wired congratulations and best wishes to Coach “Tex” Tilson, who was married last Saturday.

All of the meetings were full of enthusiasm and it was shown that Davidson College is becoming an important factor
in the lives of numerous influential business men of the state. Many prominent men were present at these meetings, most
notable of whom were J. W. McLaughlin, ’74, at Raeford, and G. D. Bellamy, '73, at Wilmington. They were classmates
of Woodrow Wilson and they related some of their college experiences.

At all of the meetings considerable reference was made to the success of the 1926 Davidson football team. At Wilmington
the alumni are trying to schedule the Davidson-Citadel game to be played in the stadium there next year.

DAVIDSONIAN ALL-STATE TEAM
Here is The Davidsonian All-State football team, as chosen by a composite vote of all members of the staff. In
many instances, The Davidsonian pick is similar to the composite all-state team, chosen by sport writers throughout the state.

First Team
End—Murray ------------ Carolina
Tackle—Thompson --------- Duke
Guard—Boggs ------------- Davidson
Center—McConnell -------- Davidson
Guard—Whisnant--- Carolina Tackle—Emmerson
Wake Forest End—Pinkney
Davidson Quarter—Rackley
Wake Forest Half—Grey
Davidson Half—McDowell
State Fullback—Spurlock
Lenoir-Rhyne Second Team End—Bohannon
Davidson Tackle—Morehead
Carolina Guard—Jones
Duke Center—Schwartz
Carolina Guard—Nicholson
State Tackle—Ritchie
Davidson End—Riley
Wake Forest Quarter—Wilson
Davidson Half—Young
Carolina Half—Ober
Wake Forest Fullback—Outen

Literary Societies

Philanthropic Society

The regular meeting, number 5,527 of the Philanthropic Literary Society, was called to order by the retiring president, C. G.
Davis. The vice-president then conducted the president-elect to the chair. The new president, Bill Covington, took the oath of office
and received the gavel of authority. The incoming president then undertook to deliver his inaugural address before his fellow members.
In his talk, the president called on each member to do his part and thereby gain the greatest possible results
in the literary line. He then proceeded with the regular program which had been planned.

The society returned this year to a former plan, which has worked well this year. The freshmen that affiliated themselves
with this society were formed into a junior society, which was separate from the senior society. It was at this
meeting that the freshmen became full-fledged members of the senior society, by being admitted to its membership. Twenty-two members were
added to the roll. The regular debate was between the freshmen and the members of the senior society on the
following question, “Resolved, That the Volstead Act should be modified so as to permit the sale of light wines and
beers.” The freshman team, composed of Neal, Pritchett, and Williams triumphed over the senior team of experienced debaters, composed of
Wallace, O'Neal, and Powell, by the decision of four to one. The first critic in his report commended the work
and ability of the freshmen and remarked on their chances to win the Fresh-Soph debate next spring. The committees had
no special reports to make. The first critic announced that the next meeting would be a trial. Bill Covington, the
new president, is to be tried for destroying property, that is, breaking a girl's heart. On the strength of this
statement, the society moved and adjourned.

Pandemic Society

The debate on the Refunding of Taxes received a negative at the regular meeting of the Pandemic Society on last
Thursday evening. Kirkpatrick and McAlpin argued for the affirmative, while Nunan and Graham upheld the negative. T. E. Hill gave
the Current Events, discussing briefly the important issues of the day. All members were warned that in the future all
fines are to be strictly enforced.

Eumenean Society

Christian and Davidson won the regular debate in the Eumenean Society on last Thursday evening, for the affirmative, over Ogden
and Dumas, of the negative, after much heated discussion on the part of both sides. The vote of the house
was for canceling the debts prior to the date of September 1st. Martin gave the Current Events of the past
week. As only a small number of the members were present at the last meeting, the secretary thinks it best
to remind the members that the time of meeting has been changed to seven-fifteen.

GLEE CLUB GOES

A trip to Rock Hill is on the schedule for the club on December 17th. This performance will be given
in the Rock Hill High School auditorium. This concert is being staged mainly through the efforts of D. G. Wilson,
president of last year’s club. All the arrangements for the spring tour of the Glee Club have not been completed
yet, but plans are afoot to treat the boys to a visit to all the leading girls’ colleges in Virginia
next spring when the annual tour will be made.

NORTH CAROLINA GAMMA

They express the normal social instinct of youth. After all, it is the coming-together or ‘gang instinct’ that is largely
responsible for this great array of clubs. Add to the ‘gang instinct,’ the romance of secrecy, and you have all
the elements that make the fraternities and clubs survive.

“Students are forever splitting themselves into science clubs. Why do they not put this interest into the Biology or Chemistry
classroom? The student would never submit to that—he must join with a few fellows, and exclude all others. No one
must know what he thinks, what he does, or where he goes.

“What are we doing? We are taking care of personalities, we are segregating the men whose interests lie in one
direction from those whose interests lie in another. Literary societies and science classes won't do any longer. It’s college life
anywhere except in the classroom.

“Mind you, I do not oppose the establishment of these clubs or groups. I am a member of some of
them myself. I wish there were more of them.

“And after that, there comes along the most gallant, the most courageous and seemingly the most important activity of them
all—college athletics. It comes with the romantic glamor of the Crusades, and the whole student body follows after it. There
is no use in anyone trying to indict students for their superlative, all-consuming interest in athletics. It is natural, and
if a student is not interested, the others will drive him out. The real live interest of the college is
in its clubs and in its athletics.

“The primary purpose of college is not this vivid and vital and bubbling college life as it now exists, and
the least-wise of us knows that when he thinks. The heart and soul of the college is not the activities
that shout.

Four students, nine alumni, and one honorary member were initiated into membership by the Davidson chapter Friday evening. The four
student initiates are: W. A. Christian, of Mobile, Ala.; W. T. Covington, of Raeford, N. C.; W. S. Woods, of
Soochow, China; and H. M. Austin, of Laredo, Texas. The nine alumni members included: Messrs. Thornton Whaling, Louisville, Ky.; J.
D. Nisbet, New York City; S. H. Edmunds, Sumter, S. C.; George Howard, Salisbury, N. C.; J. W. Moore, Winston-Salem,
N. C.; Andrew W. White, Charlotte, N. C.; W. A. McIlwaine, Japan; and L. H. Smith, of Easley, S. C.
Dr. W. S. Rankin, of Charlotte, N. C., former president of the State Health Officers of the U. S., and
at this time administrator of the J. B. Duke Foundation for Hospitals and Orphanages, was elected and initiated into honorary
membership in the fraternity.

LAST CALL

This is the last notice to the members of the class of 1927 to get their Senior Biographies in for
the Quips and Cranks. These should be 150 words in length, each man being responsible for his own “write-up” getting
in to the annual staff. These should be placed in the annual box in the lobby of Georgia Dormitory. Last
call is also given to the members of the two upper classes to post their honors in the same box.

DON WHARTON, Editor.

The Place to buy your Christmas Goods is Moore’s Tire & Sporting Goods Shop, Mooresville, N. C. We have all
kinds of sporting goods, such as footballs, and basketballs. We also have bicycles and tricycles of all kinds. Come Here
and Do Your Shopping for the Whole Family.
