Vol. XIII FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 18, 1926 SONIAN No. 19

Wildcats Lose to Tiger Team by One Field Goal In First Game of Trip

Laird and Anderson Lead Davidson Attack With Twelve Points Each

Final Score 32-30

Clemson defeated the Davidson basketball team by a field goal margin in the Tigers' Monday night, the final score being 32 to 30. The game was the first on the basketball court between the two teams in many years, the Wildcats starting a three-game trip through the Palmetto State with this game. A tighter or more thrilling game of basketball has not been seen on the local court in many a moon. The fate see-sawed in the hands of the 10 battling cagers, and at no time in the game was the result certain. Brock, fast and clever forward of the local outfit, was shooting the baskets and playing such a brilliant game that he appeared to move as if unstoppable.

Wildcat Stars

Laird and Anderson each scored 12 points and were in rare form, playing both a flashy and consistent game. The Wildcats were the first to jump into the lead at the game's start, playing with fine precision and managing to place a few nice shots. Undaunted by the unexpected spurt, the Clemson quint soon moved around in similar fashion and presently had not only tied the score but passed it and took the lead. Several times the lead was tossed about.

(Continued on page 8)

Glee Club to Start on Southern Tour Tuesday

Seven Engagements Will be Filled During Week of Touring

The Glee Club will leave for their Southern tour on Tuesday. They expect to include stops in Spartanburg, Atlanta, and Charlotte. They will spend the weekend in Atlanta. The following is the schedule: Tuesday night, Spartanburg; Wednesday night, either in Beaufort or Toccoa, the place not being definitely decided; Friday night, in Atlanta, at the Atlanta Woman's Club; Saturday night, at Agnes Scott College; Monday night, in Greenville, sponsored by the Manhood Club; Tuesday night, Charlotte, at the Central High School. They will return home Tuesday night after the performance in Charlotte.

While in Atlanta, the club will broadcast from station WSB, of the Atlanta Journal. This is one of the strongest and largest audience stations in the South, and the entertainers will please a large audience all over the United States. The date for its broadcasting has not been definitely set, but it will probably be on Friday afternoon. The club will probably take another trip of two days later on in the spring, visiting Durham and Winston-Salem. They will also attend the state meet of College Glee Clubs of North Carolina. On the return from the Southern tour, the club will begin preparations for entrance in the Glee Club contest to be held at Durham in April. Although two members were lost in Lockhart, who has gone to the University of Georgia, and Poole, who has entered Guilford College, the Glee Club is fully prepared.

(Continued on page 6)

DRAMA IN CHARLOTTE

On Wednesday afternoon, the Dramatic Club of Davidson College presented one of its recent one-act productions before the Charlotte Woman's Club. Following the annual presentation of the plays at Davidson, Professor Erwin invited them to the Queen City for a showing. The play "The Bleeding Heart" was presented, with the cast consisting of Miss Johnsie Shelton, John McNeill, Tyree Dillard, Henry Powell, Val Guthrie, and Ben Ratchford. The Woman's Club...

Brenau Draws Men to I. R. C. Conclave

The annual convention of the Southern Association of the International Relations Club will be held at Brenau College, Gainesville, GA. The Davidson club will be represented by Roland B. Parker and W. M. Christian. Topics of special interest will be discussed.

Thirty North Carolina High Schools Invited to Annual Track Meet on Richardson Field Mar. 27

Bishop Penick and Foreman to Speak

Two of the speakers for the Davidson College Commencement have been formally selected within the past week. Bishop Edwin A. Penick, of Charlotte, has accepted an invitation to deliver the baccalaureate sermon, and Prof. W. J. Foreman, of Davidson, has accepted the invitation to deliver the annual address before the graduating class. Bishop Penick is the Central North Carolina Church's pastor and is the pastor of St. Peter's Church, Charlotte. It is stated that he is the youngest bishop in the Episcopal Church. He has appeared at Davidson on previous occasions and has been attentively listened to by the students. He graduated from Sewanee and from the Episcopal Seminary at Alexandria, VA.

Professor Foreman is an assistant professor of Bible and Philosophy at Davidson, previously being a German professor. He is a graduate of Davidson College and Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, VA. Before coming to Davidson, he was a pastor. He is one of the youngest professors at Davidson, a profound thinker, and popular with the students. He spoke before the students this year, his address being received with laudatory comments.

Sophomores to Gather in Queen City Saturday Night for Annual Feast

Much Gaiety is Planned for Festive Occasion by Sophs

The night of all nights will come for the class of 1928 as Sophomores when on Saturday night, February 20, they will celebrate the annual Sophomore Banquet at the Commerce banquet hall in Charlotte. The grand entrance will be promptly at 6:30 PM. Immediately following the banquet, there will be a theater party at the Imperial Theater with a special arrangement for the Sophomores by the committee. According to the toastmaster Caldwell Withers, an exceptional and hilarious program has been arranged for the entertainment of the Sophomores. The celebration will include effective music, a variety of entertainment, and a special performance by the Terpsichorean artist Chin Gee Hee. The unprecedented success of the banquet is anticipated. Professor Foreman’s...() ive | Oui BR Mille ah ‘ Mm rey i | 1 1 ( j Thi guetiitis 4 t "i feiitieet ike lt Chile niet ait tii Arbuckle Vriday eve 1) Wa ful Mel i Well-Known Southerner to Speak on Life Work at Religious Meetings “THE DAVIDSONIANS” has bestowed the Davidson sters of Davidson College, name of “Davidsontans’™ upon the ssneopaters: PTs orscunization is headed DY Ng otsje Minister Chosen by Local Pootie Crayton, and those who follow him “Y” to Lecture to Students pon divers instruments of jazz are: Count - Davis, Wilson, Johnson, Albright, Geers and TWO SPEECHES DAILY Jarmar Vhey have heretorore had mo spn dial TAIN alth veh they have aonan Talks Will Be Made in Chanel for themselves in the hearts of both lo Services at Night and foreign musie lovers Under this ine name they will continue to delight their an TRGH = yeaie, te DA ‘ College special dienees throughout the South 1 services are held tudents rvices, whieh come the fall a yy at cach vear, and the speak Aen luet Crayton Announces tiv se ananeed torts the YMCA dy Yamba Ooder Waist | t G Runners’ Schedule ) Pe ee, ‘ : hile,, Ala. will conduct the spri ‘ Whathvon ti WS. [po (Cran Meth ter) UNE AVATSIBS Athi thy cit Herarthc aap SurLdL eas: Shh See eA Ws ORS Se i ebreomlu tie Al GaN, Ue have five meets thi pr these mee to : lane te ccentaiall el Pe Ue i a IMs “service because he. {1 nd ts cA NIthoush the track in MI he Aiea cint Gavencline iil Hie t ; noe ‘ on F an ie ih 1 a 1 ye _ ee te : ole 1 ‘i ' he coaches hope to pu coe j nae : ii ee Wi can ; Wea: - ini : Coach Vil ‘ssisting hint in 4), S F work tha | vied th} Cr tliOeal ep Carace te man om track Und sad universities whieh he has visit captan Pelist vert Ciraces MOH ert neqtde aie tit ha Win track circles for his amazing ver penefited by hist cami tity on dhe cinder path and in the wereht byecroyaihs aE Teeth : The local track Case vill hb ushered W men \) ire t undecided ' With the invitation high school meet with the ark and whoa ery ! Freshmen, This meet is to precede the var~ igor Tomcat. til i i Nhe S11 \ ason by one week Phe varsity season view. te ill | nrerene is ta oper NPT aC Wt ae CGH WIT aiince aii wie) reece j Watford at Spartanburg, followed by a meet personal problem ie Nce Net \ (tentative) with HampdeneSidney at David- apraneed fora place for Dr, Ox } ol The complefe schedule as anneuneed hy ayy, ferenee andl du | Mitniger Crayton is as fol made, out so that dn talk per April drd Davidson y peak 4 vhe desire (Continued ‘on page tanbure, 6) Npril 10th Plampden Sidney vs. David on at Davidson Ctentative), ae ole Davidson Loses Close boris tines Meet to Virginia Tech April 24th Frierson, and Barrington Win Matches on Time—Captain Cox in Thrilling Match D7 ee A pound: can Viitan er —D) ) hn continnation of ihe phn inti’ tot State Volunteers organ a spring at Davi { plant : Whe ; ‘ ey are . Goto Greensboro ,.... Ruch ( nit d ck teams here Saturda eS Mircit Sait le sarin Raia th ! rth Carolinas Student Wodu The he t ae : iL i. f : i held ats ammaal” conference in sell i t mi is SU? ed } Ther G, at. N. C, C, WW, from Pebruaty home fie in lan 1) large umber pou ie ( oth te 28th. Everyone who is interested in in casy style. EB mt t Me Wachte (he eam he eonnposedt reign Missioi WW be weleomed, [ti matched, and 1 | as many or as few men as th hy care t limited to Volunteers only, until after seven minutes of wrestling, Pus par Th keynote « the. conrerencs VATE The scl lipped chine ( ( cng though it is hoped that each team And [it Tbe Hitted up trom the earth, will pinning his heavy opponent to the have representatives fon the. field and dray all men unto me.” John 12:32, Summary track events, as the compes will then be Phe theme of the conference will be “Mi md clitss Frit 1) keener and winning an event will really meas sjonary tedueation. Revitalizauion.: he: extra pre ! I j some th to the suceessinl conter Phe personnel of the conference: Mr. Time advantage, one minute sO As there were seyeral delays last year due Milton Stauffer, ducational Seeretary of ands. }to unforescen ostacles which made the meet the Student Volunteer! Movement; Dr. Ed 125-pound cli Ba I) drag a little at times, every effort will be mund Soper, Dean of School of Religious Ford, Tech by Ba gto | made this year to remedy these defeets and Idueation, Duke University; Dr. W. 1. Po- advantage, eight minutes three secon stage a well-organized and smooth-running | teat, President. Wake Forest College; Mrs. 133-pound ‘class— Davis, Davidson; Law track meet. Hume R. Steele, Candidate, Secretary of son,-Teeh. Won by Lawson, Tech. Time The primary purpose of these meets is to Foreign Board, M. 1. Chureh, South; Dr. advantage four minutes thirty-nine and one- give the high school athletes experience in track work so that they will know what they be mere 2&ictoat when they enter the Aimnual State High School Track Meet at. Chapel Hill later in the spring. A successful meet this ygar will insure the ,certain foundation of a which are going inte, and custom will be valuable both to the High Schools formational inspirational, and thought-pro- of the state and to Davidson. Francis Charles [. Maddry, Secretary of Baptist half seconds. State Mission Board, Raleigh, N. C.; Lient. 1435-pound class Cox, Davidson; Down- Lawrenee AL Oxley, Girector of Bureau of ing, Tech. Won by QGowning. Vime ad- Vantage six minutes torty-cight seconds. 173-pound class— Vanee, Davidson; Miles, Won Miles. seven minutes forty-two seconds, Unlimited class—Maulden, Davidson; Fus- sell, Tech. Won half-nelson. Mr. Lu, Chinese stu Frank Warner, Duke University; Work among Negroes; dent, Duke Holmes, University; Music, Tech. hy Time advantage and returned missionaries. All of the conterence sessions will be in- by Fussell, chancery and (Continued on page 8) cd