Given in the right spirit, the harvest is rich and abundant. 

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1926

Davidson’s Spring Golf Tournament to Enter Second Round Last Part of Week

The first round of the spring golf tournament has been finished in both the first and second flights. In the first bracket of the first flight, McGill went into the finals by virtue of an easy score over Vaughn, defeating him by the large score of 8 up and 6 to play. In the second bracket of the second flight, Menzies defeated both Shaddock and Lawson by the same score, 3 up and 2 to play. Very few of the matches in the third flight have been finished, but they must be played by the end of the week or the matches will be defaulted. The winners of each flight will be given some prize made possible by the small qualifying fee paid by every entrant before playing his match. The golf team will be chosen from the men comprising the first flight, but if these men are not playing up to their usual form, they will be supplanted by men from the other flights. The scores during the first round have been kept rather high due to the high winds and cold weather that the players have been experiencing during the past week. But some real golf will be shown in the matches to be played this week. Earnhardt will play Jones in the semi-finals of the first flight. Both of these men were on the team last year and the match should prove to be a close one. The winner of this will play McGill for the championship of the school. The following are the matches that have been finished and the scores: Vaughn beat Tate, 5 and 4; McGill drew a bye and then defeated Vaughn, 8 and 6; Earnhardt beat Martin, 3 and 2; Jones defeated Malloy, 3 and 2. Second flight: Miller defeated Belk, 4 and 3; Solter defeated Lovelace, 2 and 1; Menzies beat Shaddock, 3 and 2; Lawson defeated C. Hall, 2 and 1; Menzies beat Lawson, 3 and 2. Third flight: McCrary beat Lyons, 1 up; Alexander defeated Pressly, 7 and 6; Simpson won over Carroll, 1 up; Causey beat Daniels, 7 and 6; Murchison forfeited to Baker; Caldwell beat Crawford, 2 and 1. The other matches in this flight have not yet been played.

NOT CALLED

Yesterday was pledge day. Pledge day for many—But for the majority of the freshman class, yesterday was just another Wednesday. There seems to be a growing feeling on the campus that unless a man is bid and pledged at the end of the rushing season he is a “royal roach.” The growth of such an idea is to be deeply lamented. A bid yesterday was an index to very little. Friendship or kinship determined who were called. The four coming years determine who are the men of the class, not yesterday. Non-fraternity men have no cause to look up to those who belong to fraternities, nor have fraternity men any reason to look down upon what some are prone to call “the great unwashed.” There are fraternity snobs here, but we are glad to record that they are few and far between. It is hoped that no man who was passed by on Pledge Day will in any way take notice of the fact. If he is “fraternity material” he will be absorbed in due time. But let him not suffer from disappointment nor grieve that he was not in the big swim. Americans are great joiners, willing to sign up with anything that gives them the privilege of wearing an emblem, and the false impression that a man amounts to nothing unless he is hooked up in some sort of fashion is the result of this overgrown club spirit. —N. C. Tar Heel.

“TWO MICE”

Once a little girl gave her mother this account of what she had learned in Sunday school: “There was a poor woman that did not have any husband or any money, and she was awfully poor, and she went to church, and when they passed the contribution-box she put in two mice, and that was the most that anybody put in.” Many people think of giving as “mice,” as a destructive proceeding, eating and gnawing away at their possessions. On the other hand, whoever really gets into the spirit of the widow’s two mites knows that giving is like seed-sowing. The seed may be very small, our gifts cannot be made very large, but if we do as well as we can and give in the right spirit, the harvest is rich and abundant. The “two mites” fill the granary, they do not empty it like “mice.” —Ex.

PHI GAMS SWEEP TO CHAMPIONSHIP OVER OTHER FRAT QUINTS

Winning its second game in two nights, the Phi Gamma Delta basketball five swept to the championship of the Inter-Fraternity Basketball Tournament here Tuesday night by defeating the Pi Kappa Phi team 38-24. With the Pi Kappa team drawing a bye in the last round of the elimination contest, the Phi Gamma Delta and S. A. E. teams played Monday night in the semi-finals, with the Phi Gams winning 25-24 in the hardest fought game of the entire series. The victory of the Phi Gams Tuesday night was easier than that of the night before, although the outcome was in doubt throughout. The other team defeated by the Phi Gams in the tournament was the Delta Theta Chi five in the second round of the elimination, the Phi Gams winning 25-17 in that contest. The Phi Gams drew a bye in the first round, but their meeting with the three other best teams made up for this advantage many times over again.

Phi Gams 25, S. A. E. 24

The two teams staged a merry game Tuesday night although heartbreaking to the followers of the S. A. E. five and nerve-wracking to those of the Phi Gams. Buster Lawson, stellar center of the S. A. E. teams and the high point man of the series, led his five to what promised to be a great victory as the second half was closing. His removal on account of fouls with his team leading by six points and three minutes to play was the turning point of the struggle. The Phi Gam five let loose a determined rally that netted six points in half that many minutes. The line-up:

S. A. E. (24) Phi Gams (25) Position
Withers (3) Rissetess Coltrane (9)
Bradford (3) Jones (3)
Lawson (14) Long (1)
Bakers (4) Moore (10)
O'Neal (2)

Phi Gams 38, Pi Kappa Phi 24

The Phi Gams pulled their repeated stunt of running away in the last half when they won by 14 points after the first half had ended 14-10. Soon after the second period began, the Pi Kappa team came within one point of overtaking the champions as the score was run up to 15-14. From then on, the Phi Gams began drawing away from their opponents until at the end of the third quarter the score stood 30-15. Joe Hall was the high-point man with 14 markers, the most scored on O'Neal in the entire series. His playing was of high order. Jones was high with 15 points while Coltrane was next with 11. The line-up follows:

Pi Kappa (24) Position Phi Gams (38)
Et alli (11) Coltrane (11)
Shasess (1) Jones (15)
Whcaldbketiorany (6) Long (4)
Witheiins RG Moore (6)
Kugler (3) O'Neal (2)

Substitution: Sims (4) for Middleton. Referee: Laird (Davidson).

Women Request Pastor to Stay With Congregation

Doctor Richards Asked Not to Leave Pastorate of Presbyterian Church

At its meeting last Thursday, the Woman’s Auxiliary of the Presbyterian Church unanimously passed the following resolutions: The members of the Woman’s Auxiliary, having learned with deep concern that Rev. Dr. C. M. Richards is seriously contemplating the matter of resigning the pastorate of our church, the organization wishes to express to Dr. Richards its sincere hope that he may reconsider this and remain our beloved under-shepherd. If, however, under circumstances which cannot be known to all, he feels this to be unwise, we wish to express our keenest regret and our warmest gratitude for his wise leadership during the past 17 years.

BRANCH, WHARTON, BOWIE AND WILLIAMS TO DEBATE WITH CONVERSE COLLEGE GIRLS AND V. P. I.

Preliminaries Held Tuesday Night Result in Above Selection

NINE MEN OUT

Barrington and Christian Chosen as Alternates in Hard Fought Preliminary

Harllee Branch and Don Wharton will represent Davidson against Sewanee, and Clancy Williams and Yancy Bowiewill meet Virginia Polytechnic Institute, according to the results of the varsity debating preliminaries held Tuesday night. At the same time, J. R. Barrington made an alternate’s place on the team that goes to Sewanee, while W. A. Christian was awarded the same position against V. P. I. The second preliminaries of the year were held in Shearer Hall with nine men trying out for the two teams, those in addition to the men making the team being Buck Shaw and Runt McLeod. The judges were: Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Prof. F. L. Fleagle, Prof. Carl Wachter, Prof. K. J. Foreman, and Professor Vowles. One week before this, the team that will meet Pittsburgh University at Davidson on April 5th was selected, with Parker, Powell, Ratchford, and Camper O'Neal (alternate) composing it. One more preliminary is to be held to select three speakers for the debate with Presbyterian College of South Carolina. The team that goes to debate the University of the South (Sewanee) is composed of men who have been identified with speaking since coming to Davidson, while the one that debates V. P. I. is the only one of the year that is composed entirely of men who were, previous to this, varsity debaters. Williams debated his freshman year, winning over North Carolina freshmen, and then on the varsity against Emory University his sophomore year. He was the first man in the present junior class to make the varsity. Bowie represented Davidson against Wake Forest last spring, helping to win that contest. He was also on the freshman team against North Carolina his freshman year, while making an alternate’s place last year for the Wake Forest debate. Wharton debated against Wake Forest freshmen his freshman year and against their varsity last spring, losing in the first but winning in the second contest.

The two alternates, Barrington and Christian, have been doing a good bit of work in literary societies but this is their first entrance into the varsity field. It is a mark of their ability that they, as well as Powell, who made the varsity last week, were a few days prior to both of these contests elected to membership in the Alpha-Phi Epsilon Fraternity, a debating organization. All other men making the teams were already members of this organization.

Junior Smoker to be Held Next Week

The Juniors are going to have their smoker Tuesday, March 16th, at 8:30 o'clock, at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. There will be plenty of food, good music, and interesting talks. Every Junior who is not present will certainly miss a treat. The Davidsonians, better known as the Jazz Orchestra, will be there in full blast. The Glee Club Quartet will also render several selections. On the tentative program are Jim Pinkney, president of the class; Don Wharton, Harlee Branch, Ronald Wilson, and some member of the faculty, probably Dr. J. W. McConnell. Mac Austin will be the toastmaster. Mac Austin, Bill Green, Gordon McCutcheon, and Broyles compose the committee in charge of the smoker. The main idea in this smoker is to get the class together and boost Junior Speaking. Everything points to the biggest and best Junior Speaking ever had at Davidson. But, at present, not enough interest has been taken in it. Stay, and do your part toward making it a success. A good time is promised to all, especially those who invite girls. The program for the week of Easter includes many social attractions, outside of all kinds of athletic contests and the usual other amusements.

TREASURER OF DAVIDSON (Continued from page 1)

His going out from this pulpit will be clothed with the grace of happy associations. His long-continued devotion, his enthusiastic guidance in things spiritual, his fine judgment in all practical matters, his courage, his untiring labors in and out of season, are known to us all, and our sorrow over his resignation, if it has to come, cannot be other than such as enriches life. Whatever his final decision may be, we wish to assure Dr. Richards of our love, of our gratitude, and of our prayers.

(Continued from page 1)

Since a large part of the audience will be visitors, the program will be made out accordingly.

Almost two hundred of the questionnaires were handed through the Varley Voo box, marked with ideas of the Ideal Man. Last Thursday night, into the wee hours, the editors of the paper sat up, listing the preferences into statistics from which the Converse Ideal Man could be chosen. Gradually the Ideal began to take form—on paper—before the very eyes of the editors. And he finally emerged from his statistical cocoon. Whether he appears in the flesh or not is a matter of conjecture, and each individual will find out in time. But for the time being, the Ideal of the whole College, or at least the majority of it, can be definitely stated.

This supreme being is to have wavy, dark brown hair, which will ripple back from a slanting poetical forehead. His eyes, under their shapely brows, will be a clear, liquid brown. His complexion will be of the medium type—neither that called olive, nor that known as fair. Whether this medium tint will be due to the sun, the questionnaire did not make clear. His nose will be aquiline, with thin sensitive nostrils. His hands, in spite of his poetic brow and liquid eyes, will approach more closely the square and efficient type than the slender and tapering kind. His feet will ably bear the heavy burden which rests behind his slanting brow, for they will wear a size ten shoe. The gentleman’s weight will be one hundred and eighty pounds, no more and no less; his age will be twenty-six; and he shall be generally described as athletic, but cultured and reserved. According to his three major characteristics, he shall be friendly, well dressed, and a good sport; from his minor characteristics, he shall be a good dancer, a writer of good letters, and fond of animals. His most important qualities which make up his individuality shall be truthfulness, faithfulness, courtesy, and an unfailing amount of sympathy. His profession shall simply be that of a business man, although no definite type of business was designated, and it is left to the individual whether it be in the gentle art of bootlegging or that of selling life insurance. Such is the Converse Ideal Man—may Allah grant that he please everyone.

In working over the statistics, the editors of the paper found many interesting, not to say humorous, suggestions. One girl, for instance, preferred him to be a life saver; another an oil king. These preferences were so extremely individual that they lost out in the race. Particularly interesting were the ideas expressed upon what should be the type of hair adorning the shapely head of this Converse Hair-Breadth Harry. Only one wanted curly hair. Such is the influence of the widespread advertisement for Stay Comb. Only one wished a Roman nose. The editors cannot decide whether this choice was due to the girl’s ignorance of the profile effect of this type of nose. Perhaps her choice can be explained by her Classical Club membership, although this is only a guess, as, of course, the editors are unaware of the authorship of all the questionnaires. Some day, like the replica of the Great Stone Face, this Ideal Man might appear in the midst of Converse girls—and then what?!

“LOST”

Copy of Century Readings in English Literature, lent to some member of the Sophomore class, at the beginning of the fall term. Whoever has this book please return it to me at No. 15 South Barracks, or see me about it. M. G. (Kid) Lyerly.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5050 | Residence, 1937-3
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
12 South Tryon Street
Telephones
Office 8171 Res. 3419-W
Over Garibaldi & Bruns
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST
Charlotte, N.C.

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Telephone 3528

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
The Best Places to Eat
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see

FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS
RECORDS AND ROLLS
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC
ANDREW MUSIC STORE
OLDEST IN THE STATE
213 N. Tryon St.