THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1926

Mr. Wm. Joseph Martin, Jr., who is studying medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, was home to spend the Christmas
season with his parents, Dr. and Mrs. Wm. J. Martin.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5050
Residence, 1937-3

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.
Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST
Charlotte, N.C.

Eyes Examined
Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
24 South Tryon St. Up Stairs
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Telephone 3528

Fresh Country Vegetables
Staple and Fancy Groceries
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
Davidson, N.C.

C. E. T. C. Plans to Widen Activities

At the last meeting of the Christian Endeavor Training Class Sunday afternoon, W. L. Hodgkin led in a very interesting
program. Each member present told of some interesting feature of the prayer meetings and socials conducted by the Christian Endeavor
societies at their respective homes during the holidays.

Following the new plan decided on by the class, W. T. Covington appointed the following committees, to each of which
is assigned some definite work: Program Committee, Wm. Hull; Deputation, M. A. Steele, Chairman, W. K. Pritchett; Music, C. T.
David, Chairman, W. L. Hodgin; P. J. Garrison; Lookout, W. H. Lynch, Chairman, L. K. Pritchett; Publicity, Tom Preer, Chairman,
E. P. Moye.

A Christian Endeavor will be started at the Hopewell Presbyterian Church within the next few weeks. C. T. has charge
of this work. The C. E. Training Class is beginning the new year with a determination to do more and
better work than ever before. The class is not a real Endeavor society, but is, as the name implies, a
class for the purpose of training those who are interested in Christian Endeavor work.

IMPERIAL COMING MONDAY FOR FOUR DAYS---
Eric Von Stroheim’s Production---
“THE WIDOW”
WITH MAE MURRAY
JOHN GILBERT
The show that has been running in New York for over six months at $2 top.

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
Prompt attention to orders for SELBY ICE CREAM
STATESVILLE, N.C.

Insurance Department.
INSURANCE
We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price
McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13)
Independence Trust Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
Synonymous for excellent board and good service---at just the right price
Davidsonians and their guests always welcome
“Feeds,” “Smokes” and Banquets given special attention
MANAGERS
E. F. BOHANNON
H. L. SHAW, Jr.

Town News

Misses Kitty Martin and Charlotte Hunter, students at Agnes Scott College, and Miss Letitia Currie, of Salem College, spent the
holiday season with their parents.

Mr. Eustace Lingle was home from Princeton University to spend the holidays with his parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. W.
Lingle.

Miss Tibbetts, of Greenville, S.C., was the guest of Mrs. F. K. Fleagle and Mrs. G. R. Vowles during the
holidays.

Mr. and Mrs. Thornwell Smith spent part of the holidays as the guests of Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Smith.

Mr. and Mrs. C. K. Brown, of Chapel Hill, N.C., spent several days on the Hill with Mr. and Mrs.
A. Currie during the holidays.

Mr. Jack Hunter, who is studying medicine at the University of North Carolina, was home for the holidays.

Dr. and Mrs. J. M. McConnell and sons, Riggs and John T., were in Florida during the holidays.

Miss Gene Martin visited her sister, Mrs. A. L. Currie in Louisville, Ky., and Mrs. Currie has accompanied Miss Martin
home. Mrs. Currie will remain home about a month.

Miss Lillian Sample, who is teaching at Croft, was home with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Sample.

Misses Dorothy Finlayson and Susie Jackson visited relatives in Chadwick, N.C., during the holidays.

Miss Mae Ellen Wood left Monday for Washington, D.C. to spend January and February, returning to her Davidson home in
the spring.

Dr. and Mrs. Wilson MacConnell and son, Courtney, spent nearly three weeks in St. Petersburg, Fla., including the holiday season.

Mrs. W. R. Grey visited relatives in Hendersonville and Asheville during the holidays.

Mrs. E. J. Erwin and children have returned from a several months’ stay in Morganton.

With only two letter men playing on the regular team, the Wildcat squad has been somewhat...Handicapped of late, Andy Hewlett,
star forward, has been unable to play because of an operation that prevented him from participating in a year of
varsity basketball. He is showing up well. Big Ben Wilson, who is playing his first season, holds the position of
center. Tom, who started off the season last year in brilliant form and became one of the most outstanding centers
in the state, is a guard this year. At forward, Captain Laird is playing for his fourth and last year
for the Wildcats. Although he had a little hard luck in the Duke game, he has been showing up well
while he has been in the game. He is the only man on the squad who has earned more than
one letter. At the other guard position, Ike Simpson and Charlie Harrison have been alternating in the five games played
so far. Both of these men are extremely fast and are also good at covering the opposing forward. The reserves
are also full of good material, being composed of men who have shown up well in practices and also in
the annual class basketball games held in the fall. From the Senior class team, John Cooke has been ringing the
old basket many times in practice even though he has not yet been in any games. Harry Goodykoontz and F.
E. Hudgins have been representing the Junior class. The Sophomores have as their representatives on the reserves, Herman Weld and
B. W. McAuley.

CASHION’S CAFE
The best eats and the quickest service in town. Open till 12:00 p.m. except Sunday.

Students Attend Great Convention in Atlanta
More Than Forty-Five Davidson Students and Alumni Attend Mammoth Conclave

Of the one thousand delegates registered at the Young People’s Missionary Convention, held in Atlanta, Ga., December the twenty-ninth to
thirty-first, inclusive, at the Central Presbyterian Church, forty-five were either Davidson students or Davidson Alumni. The convention began Tuesday afternoon
with the registration of delegates, who had come from churches all over the South. The convention was opened Tuesday night
by the chairman, Dr. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., a Davidson graduate, a Rhodes Scholar, and now pastor of the Central
Presbyterian Church in Atlanta. The following are some of the outstanding men on the list of speakers, all of whom
are Davidson men, known to each of us: Rev. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., convention chairman; Prof. W. T. Thompson, Union
Seminary, Richmond; Rev. R. T. Gillespie, President Columbia Seminary; Mr. Julian P. Price, medical candidate for missions, Johns Hopkins University;
Rev. Walter K. Keys, Superintendent of Evangelism, Bristol, Tenn.; and Rev. R. W. Miles, University Secretary, Louisville, Ky.

The Davidson spirit made itself manifest when a group of alumni and students called a meeting of all Davidson men
and planned a luncheon. This luncheon was held at noon on the last day of the conference, at the Daffodil
Cafe. The luncheon was in the form of a plate dinner. When the Daffodil Cafe had been duly stripped of
all its food and had filled its cash register to the satisfaction of the owners, a group of Davidson alumni
and students filed their way out into the street and back to the church, tingling all over with the feeling
that is commonly known as the Davidson Spirit.

FATAL BLUNDERS
H2SO4 for H2O.
Three dates in one night.
A train, an automobile, and a crossing.
Polecats as playmates for children.
Syko One.

SILENCE IS GOLDEN
She—“They say that women suffer in silence.”
He—“I always did think they were suffering when they were silent.”

PILOT MOUNTAIN: NORTH CAROLINA
THE PILOT

For the College Man
The Pilot Life Insurance Company provides a contract at one-half regular premium rates during the first five years. This liberal
feature makes it convenient for the college man to get his life insurance at his present age and carry it
for the least possible cost during college days. See that you get your protection from the Pilot.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
GREENSBORO, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, President

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

Congratulations, often difficult to express, are always gratefully received; and their omission may mar an otherwise happy day. Discriminating folks
welcome our congratulation cards, because they are attractively designed and tactfully worded for every occasion when congratulations are in order.

CARDS for every purpose
COMMERCIAL Printers and Stationers
419 East Avenue
Charlotte, N.C.

PHONE 24 ANY HOUR OF THE 24
YELLOW CAB CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

BELK’S
The place where you can buy high-class merchandise at popular prices. Between seasons you can buy cheap. Visit us when
you want to feel at home.
BELK BROS. CO.
THE HOME OF BETTER VALUES
