“THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 31, 1926

OUTSTANDING EVENTS

Abolition of hazing.
Endowment more than trebled—increased more than two million dollars.
Building of Richardson Athletic Field.
$600,000.00 campaign initiated and fully completed.
Entrance into American Association of Schools and Colleges.
Phi Beta Kappa and Alpha Phi Epsilon installed.
Death of most distinguished alumnus—Woodrow Wilson.
Davidson College Highway constructed and opened.
Largest enrollments in history—more men refused admission.
Watts burned and reconstructed.
South wing of Chambers built.
Concrete Walks.
Freshman debating begun.
Freshman athletics initiated.
Coaching staff increased from one to three.
Phi Gamma Delta, Theta Upsilon Omega, and Pi Kappa Phi Fraternities install chapters here.

Senior Diary 1922-23

September
14th—225 “rosebuds of Southern culture” flood the campus with their pristine glory.
15th—Freshmen in East become acquainted with Mebane and Jack Austin. And, verily, their frames did tremble from the contact therewith. Bill Cox gets his first fifty caresses.
16th—Barracks freshmen raided by Joushee and “Nappy” Davis. Harry Blue unable to attend classes the next day.
20th—Yancey Bowie finds Shearer Hall.
23rd—Elon falls before Wildcats while South Carolina freshmen gloat over their first football game.
30th—And the Presbyterians from Clinton did meet their mighty brethren from Davidson and did verily lick them in the heathen city of Clinton, yea, in Clinton of the Palmetto State.

October
2nd—Chamber of Commerce, in fair Charlotte, is host to Davidson College. Alabama freshmen get first glimpse into depraved city life.
6th—Freshman Reports out. Shaw and Lawson pass R.O.T.C. and P. and H.
7th—Golden Tornado, on Grant field, finds thin red line is featured by an unsuspected cohesion. Tech 19; D.C. 0.
14th—Heckman and his Baptist cohorts do verily immerse the too confident Wildcats. Kelly Moore finds out that “Wildcats” and “team” mean the same thing.
17th—Freshmen now thoroughly aware that football is a big thing in college.
21st—“Red” Laird covers '26 with glory by carrying the pigskin over the goal line to tie V.P.I. Gobblers. Southern fandom gasps and George Shaddock gapes.
26th—Students and faculty pay $27,500 for holiday and new Chambers (in pledges).
28th—Trinity 12, and Davidson 0, fighting spirit lagged a little.
31st—Bill Cox and Wilson Crane guests at two-hour prayer meeting on the third floor of East—both survive.

November
10th—Mid-term reports go home; mid-term checks automatically stop.
11th—Glory be—Wofford goes down 34-0.
18th—Carolina frocks us, too.
21st—Tenth straight article on Wildcat spirit in the Open Forum. Ministerial Band opens with song and prayer on the following Sunday.
22nd—Bramlett’s cook marries Thompson’s chef.
25th—Freshmen have not won a class basketball game yet.

December
3rd—Senior Speaking ends—Davidsonian says it is “best yet; as always.”
4th—Selzer and Williford are cross-country stars.
5th—Furman 13, and Wildcats 10—great game. But freshmen lick Clemson 20-6. Doughton breaks leg.
16th—Anti-hazing agitation in full blaze,—sophs fearing for future, make hay while the moon shines. Bill Cox has the most attractive personality on the hill, they think. His score now 3,466. Blue and Wilson strongest competitors.
20th—Christmas. And the lonely members of '26 did get them upon the Jaybird special and flee into many parts of the Sahara of the Bozart. And the boys from Gastonia did abide in their peaceful village for ten days, yea, even fourteen days.
25th—Group of action pictures and snapshots of various students taken unknowingly. Many of them can be associated with memorable occasions. All are familiar.

January
3rd—Curfew tolls the knell of another five months. “Buster” Lawson gets a haircut as soon as he gets in from the country.
6th—Freshman regulations come in vogue. Cox and Jim Moore suffer from the absence of a friendly paddle.
9th—Four Literary Societies meet—after the devotionals the debate was endured.
13th—1926 becomes a class. “Nick” Sappenfield elected president, Alex McMillan vice-president, and C.E. Houston secretary.
17th—The reviews came, and the exams descended and did beat upon '26, and many were the men to go down and rise no more, Selah.

February
1st—Shaw and Lawson first '26 men to make Honor Roll.
3rd—State quint goes down before Wildcats. Pat Crawford '23 and George Mauze '23, great combination.
26th—Venerable Watts, tiring from the fragrance incessantly flowing from the southern chivalry, calmly takes her heavenly flight modestly covered by a voluminous smoke screen. For once, the boys retired from church without facing the absence committee.

March
1st—Junior Speaking recorded as best ever—oceans of “fire,” quarts of alumni, and very students present.
21st—Wake Forest 6, Davidson 0. And the boys from Gastonia did abide in their peaceful village for ten days, yea, even fourteen days.

April
3rd—South Carolina falls before track squad.
7th—Hazing abolished, Sophs raise turmoil. Fresh praise Allah. Holiday!
8th—"Brassie” Baker elected secretary of Student Body.
14th—'26 elects Soph officers; Baker president, Monk vice-president, and Regen secretary.
26th—Varsity debaters down Duke.
30th—Bradley '23 south Atlantic tennis championship.

May
10th—Soph Day—through the barrel, showers—out on the grass—Sophs, as it were.
11th—Freshman Greek class presents professor with costly gift.
23rd—C.D. Patterson realizes he can walk on grass.
24th—Ralph Johnson faints as Fred Smith walks in front door. Fred is preparing for summer in Tennessee.
29th—Exams—few passed all—more flunked all—preparations to receive freshmen next year.

June
6th—Martin Teague and Red Anderson get home after seven days of arduous walking.

1923-24

September
14th—Greatest enrollment in history.
27th—Baseball team fails to”overcome evil precedent set by football team—defeats in majority.

March
1st—Phi Beta Kappa chapter installed. Houston, Hollingsworth, Regen, and Appleby immediately withdraw from the outer world and settle down to four years’ hard work.
6th—Barnyard golf is crowned king of campus.
7th—Coach-elect Younger stops by and persuades Kimbrough that he can walk on the grass.
16th—Ernest Milton and Litch Huie arrive from Georgia. Told committee it took three days to reach railroad. Absences excused.
25th—Pep meetings—compulsory generation of some seas of Wildcat spirit begins.
26th—Elon goes scoreless as usual in first grid affair. Vance, Anderson, Black, Laird, Sappenfield, Baker represent '26 and show brilliant promise.

October
7th—V. P. I. 7, and Davidson 0; outweighed 17 pounds per man.
14th—Citadel Bulldogs bow to Wildcats. Wick Black stars. Richardson Field christened as the best in Carolinas.
15th—Honor Store inaugurated.
25th—Peanut Parcher stale as ever.
26th—Furman smothers us.
30th—Barnum and Bailey Circus comes to Charlotte. John Cooke, Fred Smith, Sid Jones, and Hamp Lawson leave campus at five A.M. Rest of Virginia club leave at 6:30.

November
1st—Wake Forest tennis overwhelmed.
2nd—Advance dope says 20,000 will hear Morrison when highway is dedicated.
3rd—State 12, Davidson 6—close game.
8th—Another Marshal Ney story.
12th—Now, verily, there did gather at Davidson in the land of Mecklenburg, a mighty throng of 500 people, on November 12th. And Gov. Morrison did talk long and dryly. And the students of Davidson did gird their loins and seek refuge in the desolate slums of Mooresville and wicked Charlotte. Highway christened “Davidson College Highway.”
17th—Lose but play beautiful game against Carolina, 13-3.
20th—Hollingsworth and Stith, both ‘26, win places on debating team over all other contenders.
25th—Trinity downs us.

December
10th—With Deck at helm, jubilant Soph Day held. ’26 runs true to type.
11th—Christenbury, Adams, and Bowie drop girls in ye olde home townes. Christmas is too near. Pressly is thinking of following suit when he sees in Stony Point Effort that his idol has already bound herself to another.
13th—Sonny Pullen speaks for an hour at meeting of Metros.
15th—Hollingsworth and Stith defeat W. and L. orators in fiery debate.
16th—Norwood gets three letters from Santa Claus.
20th—Xmas—sophisticated sophs go home.

January
3rd—Now, in the early days of January, once more did the men of '26 depart from lonesome Chipley, desolate Abbeville, foul Minden, and fair Farmville to gather at Mt. Shearer. And they offered themselves as burnt offerings in no wise without blemish.
20th—Elon write home for excuses when they hear that Billy Sunday is coming.
22nd—Sadly depleted team stumbles on.

February
3rd—Woodrow Wilson, our most distinguished alumnus, passes on. Memorial at church.
8th—Billy Sunday speaks in church. Orthodox gloat; lukewarm admire; radicals scorn; sophomores stay away.
10th—Lost to Trinity after defeating State, Lenoir, and Guilford on hardwood floor.
14th—Galloway's ('24) famous Open Forum—Conservative Davidson shocked from Dan to Beersheba. Two sophomores compelled to think. Never forgave him.
18th—Losing streak in basketball.
23rd—Bill Cox becomes wrestling star on strong team.

March
1st—Basketball record: 10 won, 8 lost.
13th—Soph Banquet; Baker, toastmaster; Charlotte Chamber of Commerce; Regen chairman committee; great time—rooms ruined on return. Vengeance with a vim sought, college property loses out.
19th—Good picture show.
25th—Millner makes 80 on French quiz; sick for week.

April
3rd—Junior officers: Buck Shaw, president; Tootie Crayton, vice-president; Buster Lawson, secretary; Wilson, chairman Junior Speaking Committee.
5th—“Y” speaker who was not thoroughly orthodox.
26th—Wood Brown goes to “Y.”

May
10th—Soph Day—reluctantly, sophs leave childish proclivities for the more mature frivolity of Juniordom.
21st—Exams. Most of them live through—Hollingsworth passes Greek; Monk does not.
30th—Home.

JUNIOR YEAR

September
14th—Record-breaking enrollment of 618. “Flower of Southern Culture” becomes less exclusive.
18th—Peanut Parcher finds another new joke.
18th—Open Forum stands firmly behind tradition and says, “Back Team” or show the Wildcat spirit.
28th—P. C. goes down—'26 in limelight again.
30th—Great rejoicing when '26 discovers that Robert William Graves of Rome, Ga., who deserted ’25 last year, has decided to cast his lot with ’26. Graves receives numerous congratulations on his fortunate choice. As a reward he makes 100 on Frazer's Psychology.

October
4th—University of Richmond bows to Wildcats in Winston-Salem.
6th—Biddle quartette make annual autumnal appearance.
10th—Wofford bites dust. Freshmen down Wingate 38-0—neither varsity nor fresh have yet felt sting of defeat.
13th—’26 continues punk record in class basketball—trouble nobody knows.
18th—Lenoir goes down 45-0—although the Bears outweighed young aggregation 20 pounds per.
22nd—Jack McNair, Jacksonville Fla, dies in Charlotte hospital of pneumonia. Jack is one of brilliant men in the class. First loss from the ranks.
25th—Furman 6, Davidson 0—blocked punt tells tale.
28th—Kelsey Regen has first date. (Other party censored).

November
1st—Hollingsworth makes Emory debate.
2nd—10-10 is result of State-Davidson affair in a game which redounded in glory to the “thin Red Line.”
4th—Parker beats Leighton, McCutcheon ('27) in tennis tournament.
8th—Clemson placed on victim shelf of powerful Wildcat machine—Vance and Baker blaze spectacular trail.
15th—10,000 people see two puny field goals spell margin of victory for Carolina in last few minutes of play. Never did the Wildcats fight harder or nobler. Outweighed many pounds, yet the line could not be pierced. Every Davidson (Continued on page 8)