THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1926

Students Pick Ideal Girl
(Continued from page 1)

Also fully believed that this Girl will outrank all the beauties of antiquity and of yore, including Helen, Cleopatra, Freya,
Pompadour, and Lillian Russell.

The questionnaire was divided into three sections: the first part included the physical characteristics; the second part, the mental traits;
the third part, the social habits and characteristics. There were a number of questions under each division. Here are the
results:

The age of this Ideal Girl will be exactly 18 years, because 33 per cent of the answers specified that
age. And 19 years as the ideal came immediately after in popularity. The oldest age specified was 22 years and
the youngest was 16—that sweet but unkissable age. Probably the average age for a wife would be some higher.

Her height will be five feet five inches, as 24 per cent of the answers specified that particular loftiness. Of
course, ten men, evidently affected by the popular song, had their Ideal Girl as a petite creature of five feet
two. One and two inches below this particular height came in for a good deal of favor.

An overwhelming majority were in favor of her being 120 pounds in weight. The lowest to tip the beams was
a creature of 96 pounds and the heaviest was somewhere in the neighborhood of the weight of a barrel of
flour. This last might have been a joke, or the signer might have wanted his girl to hold down his
flivver to keep it from rattling.

The brunettes were certainly in vogue as only nine per cent of the answers called for blonde hair. Brown was
the predominant color motif in everything but skin. Twenty per cent declared in favor of dark brown hair, 19 per
cent were for ordinary brown, and ten per cent were for light brown hair. Two boys specifically specified henna hair
(whatever that is) but only one request came in for auburn hair. A little more than one-third called for black
hair. On a special form, it was found that 80 per cent called for bobbed hair.

Eighty per cent of the answers said that only a slender girl would do for them. Twenty per cent called
for medium figures, and a small majority even asked for the more robust kind. One wanted his beauty to be
“fairly fat!” Her foot was to be a number 4. Only one more vote was cast for brown eyes than
for those of blue. Ten per cent wanted black eyes, while hazel and grey eyes received only one call out
of the entire student body. Only four men called for artificial complexion and the rest wanted it as natural as
a full-blown rose. A few declared themselves willing to accept a little of each if it was skillfully mixed.

When it came to names, Margaret led the field by a fair majority. About nine per cent of the answers
specified this name. Mary was next in popularity, then Elizabeth, Virginia, Helen, Martha, and Ruth in order. Of course, a
few extraneous names were added to the list, such as Heliotrope, Tyia, Ygraine, and others. So much for this division.

Under mental traits appeared a few enlightening qualifications. In spite of the many varied answers given to the question of
Disposition, the predominant one was “sweet.” Other answers included independence, gentleness, meekness, kindness to animals, high-spiritedness, patience, affableness, sympathy, and
the triumvirate of faith, hope, and charity.

A large majority specified that this Ideal Girl must have a four-year college education before she could be acceptable as
a wife. Evidently, they pictured this Girl as a co-ed or an inmate of some girls’ college. Most of them
wanted her to be witty, some serious, and a good many specified wittiness and seriousness in their proper places. All
but 11 wanted her to have some knowledge of music and art. A few said that such knowledge was immaterial.

In the last division, there were many diverse opinions. Smoking was pretty generally tabooed, as only nine and four-tenths per
cent of the questions said that smoking would be permissible. Five per cent said that it was immaterial and the
rest were against it in any form. Drinking was the same way. About 86 per cent were heartily against drinking
alcoholic liquors, and the rest said that their Ideal Girl could drink if she wanted to.

The plain question was asked whether one’s Ideal Girl would indulge in any petting. On this important question, 45 per
cent said absolutely not, 33 per cent said yes, and 22 per cent qualified this last with the statement that
she would pet only them. Only two per cent of all the answers specified the requirement being 13 years.

I.) Physical Characteristics:
1. Age—18.
2. Height—5 feet 5 inches.
3. Weight—120.
4. Color of hair—Brown.
5. Length of hair—Bobbed.
6. Slender or Robust—Slender.

II.) Mental Traits:
1. Disposition—Sweet.
2. Education—College Degree.
3. Witty or Serious—Witty.
4. Knowledge of Music and Art—Greatly desired.

III.) Social Habits and Characteristics:
1. Would your Ideal Girl pet?—Yes (qualified).
2. Would your Ideal Girl smoke?—No.
3. Would your Ideal Girl drink alcoholic liquor in any form?—No.
4. Would you have her a good dancer?—Yes. A social butterfly?—No. Dances preferred—Clog, square, round, or Charleston—Round.
5. How much athletic ability would she have?—Fair amount.
6. Could this Ideal Girl cook, sew, and keep house?—Yes.
7. Do you ever expect to find her?—Yes? Where?—Various places.
8. Size of foot—4.
9. Color of Eyes—Brown.
10. Nose—Medium length, slender.
11. Complexion—Natural.
12. Favorite Name—Margaret.

Unusual Statements Are Made in Questionnaires
Davidson Men Fail to Agree on Important Requisites of Ideal Girl

The recent questionnaire concerning the ideal girl has brought many interesting things to light in regard to the Davidson students’
requisites in the particular choice. Some of these are what might be expected from such a gathering of college men.

In regard to smoking, 85 per cent of the students said that their ideal girl must not smoke, and 9.4
per cent will permit her to smoke, while 4.8 per cent are indifferent. The affirmative and negative of the petting
proposition are not as far apart as some prophesied that they would be. Those in favor of the girl petting
totaled 55 per cent, negative 45 per cent. However, 21.6 per cent indicated that they were in favor of the
girl petting them exclusively.

The drink question is truly astounding for a school of the reputation that Davidson has. Those allowing their girl to
drink totaled 10.8 per cent, and those disfavoring it were 85.8 per cent; 3.4 per cent indicated that it was
entirely immaterial.

One question ran true to the general estimate, that of dancing; 78.8 per cent were in favor and 21.2 per
cent against letting their ideal girl dance.

Many strange and humorous questionnaires were returned to the staff for averaging. Some of the voters had either received...a cold
letter from their girl, or they belonged to the ten per cent who favored the imbibing of spirits. Still, there
is no accounting for some tastes; perhaps they are sincere. There was a wide variance in age, the lowest re-
Which goes to show that Davidson is not without its “cradle robbers.” On the other hand, one voter had the
ideal at 40 years of age; perhaps she is wealthy.

Three members of the student body evidently are desirous of looking up to their ideal in more ways than one.
Or, perhaps these men are small and seek protection. Anyway, these said their ideal girl was over six feet in
height. These students were considerate enough to allow the size of the shoe in proportion to height. It is a
strange fact that several of these rather abnormal creatures over six feet, wearing a number ten shoe, having red hair,
a mean disposition, green eyes, and having ability as a clog dancer, are expected by the subjects of the questionnaire
to be found at Converse.

The majority were heartily “against” the idea that the girl would be a society butterfly. All except four boys wanted
her to have some athletic ability. One said that he wanted her to have enough to beat up any impertinent
traveling salesman. All except three per cent wanted her to have a knowledge of the household arts. Two fellows said
that this was immaterial.

The last question, “Do you expect to find her and where?” brought many varied responses. About 85 per cent said
that they expected to find her somewhere. Strange to say, about 20 or 25 fellows said that they expected to
find her at Converse College! A few mentioned heaven, “somewhere,” and other answers ranged from Talladega, Alabama, to Walla Walla,
Washington. Most of the questionnaires were signed, but a few were loath to have their innermost secrets and aspirations brought
to the light of journalistic publicity. For a composite picture of this Ideal Girl, see another column of this paper.

BILL CHRISTIAN WINS Y. M. C. A. PRESIDENCY
(Continued from page 1)

He has been unusually active in journalistic work at Davidson. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.
The three men who were eliminated in the election for the presidency have shown great ability along this line. Covington,
the runner-up, was vice-president of the “Y” this year, while Goodykoontz was treasurer. Stewart has been active in work also.

Men Select Margaret as Name for Phantom Girl
Mary and Virginia Among Others Are Popular With Davidson Students

Margaret, a name harmonious, romantic, and enshrined in songs and stories, was chosen as the name for the Ideal Girl
of Davidson. Due to the large number of names submitted, Margaret was the choice of only a small percentage of
the students, but it was large enough to further establish the prestige of Margaret. The percentage would doubtless have been
larger had the nicknames and digressions from the name of Margaret, such as Margarite, Maggie, Marguerite, and Margie, been counted
with it.

Mary and Virginia ran Margaret a close race, and a few more votes for any of these would have turned
the tide in their favor. Close behind these were names such as Helen, Martha, Ruth, and Elizabeth. All of the
“Margarets” were practically the same type, differing somewhat from the Ideal Girl. In nearly every case, the ideal Margaret had
brown curly hair and blue eyes, of medium height and slender build. When the votes did vary, it was to
the opposite type entirely, having black hair and dark brown or black eyes.

There was a great diversity of names in the selections, ranging from the classic Helen and Guinevere to the jazzy
Jo and Bobby. The influence of popular novels, short stories, and plays was noticeable in the selection of the name.
Some of the names were Blanche, Carmine, Tyria, Ursula, Marcelle, Ophelia, and Verlaine.

Bobbed Hair Given Boost by Students

In spite of the current edict from Paris, or the general unrest and indecision on the part of all those
concerned, and many who are not concerned, bobbed hair seems to have a much longer life than at one time
seemed likely. In a recent survey held at Davidson, 77.60 per cent of those interviewed preferred short hair to long,
and 3.3 per cent stated that it was immaterial. This report no doubt bids fair to receive bitter disappointment from
girls who have passed many sleepless nights in worry and indecision over the question of lengthening their tresses; but a
most hearty welcome is probably in store for those returning with the hope of gaining their beauty in the “good
old days” of their long hair.

However, this may seem to the bobbed hair wearers, there is still the question of the type of bob to
be considered. In no cases are the extreme bobs, such as “boyish,” “Charleston,” “vampish,” or “Flapper” bobs, to be admired.
The favor between straight and slightly curled hair seems to be about equally divided, but in each instance, discretion is
to be used in the style of cuts.

The Freshman class of next year is assured of several good men. The two men who have been under so
much discussion in this column have already signed up to come to Davidson, with two others following in their footsteps.
We'll welcome them gladly. Wish we could hear of a few more that have made that decision, and we don't
believe they will make a mistake by coming to Davidson.

Pick a pipe and pack it with good old P. A.

Talk about “alliteration’s artful aid”—the printer certainly raided the box on that trip. But let that go! The advice is
just as serious and sound as though it were couched in the careful diction of an English prof. P. A.
can’t bite your tongue or parch your throat. The Prince Albert process settled that in P. A.’s freshman year. Get
yourself a tidy red tin of Prince Albert today. The first load-up will tell you why pipes are so fashionable
among young men today.

Prince Albert—no other tobacco is like it!

Just get yourself a jimmy-pipe and fill the bowl to the brim with Prince Albert. Light up, and let the
first fragrant whiff tell you that no other tobacco is like P. A.—or can be! Cool and sweet and fragrant,
P. A. has everything a fellow ever wished for in a smoke. And always with every bit of bite and
parch removed by the Prince Albert process. P. A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin
humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top.
