Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 11, 1926 Number 19

Treasurer of Davidson College Will Speak at Sunday Vesper Service

Mr. F. L. Jackson is First Local Speaker

INTEREST IS HIGH

Local Official Knows Problems of Students Better Than Any Other Man

Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer and professor of Davidson College, will be the speaker at the “Y” vesper service on next Sunday, March 14th. The majority of the addresses made this year have been by men who live away from the college, and have necessarily been, to a certain extent, away from student life and its problems. On the other hand, Mr. Jackson comes into contact with all of the students and knows the majority of them personally. During his stay at Davidson he has kept in touch with campus life and has been able to see things from the viewpoint of the students as well as from that of the faculty. He has been called on from year to year to speak before the Y. M. C. A. and his talks have come straight from the shoulder, in a way that appeals to college men. Whatever his subject may be, Mr. Jackson is sure to inspire and help those who give him a hearing next Sunday night.

An effort is now being made to secure Dr. Howard E. Rondthaler, president of Salem College for Women, at Winston-Salem, to address the Y. M. C. A. on March 21st. Dr. Rondthaler is the son of Bishop Rondthaler, who gave a wonderful talk last fall. He has been to Davidson several times in the last few years and has always brought messages of true worth.

A special Easter service is to be arranged for the Sunday of Junior Speaking. It will probably be featured by Easter music and a short talk by a popular preacher, whose name will be announced later. If the weather is favorable an open-air meeting is planned to be held on the west side of the library.

(Continued on page 6)

Dick Grey is Chosen as Student Body Secretary

Popular Student and Athlete Wins in Race for Coveted Student Office

W. R. Grey, Jr., of Davidson, N. C., was elected to the position of secretary and treasurer of the student body at the election held last Thursday morning. Grey won in a run-off election against Mutt Nesbit. These two men had the largest number of votes from the first ballot which was held Wednesday morning. Grey won by a fair majority of votes.

The election to this office shows the esteem and respect in which the student body holds this popular member of the Sophomore class. Dick was on the first team of the Wildcat eleven last fall and made his varsity letter for the first time. Besides being on the football team, Dick has been actively interested in boxing and gave an exhibition at the gym very recently. He is a member of the Davidson chapter of the Kappa Sigma fraternity.

Mutt Nesbit ran second to Grey in the election and was defeated by a rather small margin. Mutt is president of the Sophomore class as well as being on the varsity football team, making his letter for the first time last fall. Nesbit is a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. Other men nominated were Camper O’Neal and John Foster.

The election was held to fill the vacancy left by the withdrawal from school of John Melton, who had filled the position of secretary and treasurer during the first part of his Sophomore year. In the elections last spring, Grey ran second to Melton in the balloting.

THE IDEAL GIRL

Questionnaires will be distributed among the students of Davidson Friday afternoon by the editorial staff of The Davidsonian in an attempt to find the “ideal girl.” Reports coming out of Spartanburg that the Converse College girls were seeking the “ideal man” brought forth the efforts of the local newspaper to discover a mate for said being. The questionnaire will in no way be comparable to that of the Biology Club of last year, as the staff is anxious to find the specific details of an “ideal girl” rather than the general and abstract qualities. The next issue of The Davidsonian will carry full details of the affair.

Annapolis Plebes Wrestle Wildcats

The Davidson College wrestling team left today for a two-meet trip into Maryland. On Friday night at 8:00 o'clock they will meet the Central Y. M. C. A. team of Baltimore. They will meet the Navy Plebes on Saturday afternoon at 4:00 o'clock. The men who will make the trip from Davidson are: Heavyweight, Paul R. Maulden; 175 pound class, Harry Vance; 158 pound class, John W. Crinkley; 148 pound class, W. D. Cox (Capt.); 135 pound class, C. G. Davis; 125 pound class, J. C. Barrington; 115 pound class, J. C. Frierson.

The Davidson team has never met either of these teams, and they will both be difficult foes for the Wildcats. They have met the Navy varsity several times, losing on each occasion. The Plebes will make a strong effort to hold up the record of the varsity against Davidson. According to Commander Weems, of the Navy, the Central Y. M. C. A. of Baltimore has the distinction of having had the championship of the South Atlantic coast last year. These two meets will undoubtedly be two of the hardest ones of the season.

Three Men are Chosen to Represent Davidson in Pittsburgh Debate

Parker, Ratchford and Powell Win in Preliminaries

TO DEBATE IN APRIL

Pittsburgh Team to Meet Wildcat Orators While on Tour Through Southland

At the preliminary debate held last week for the Davidson-Pittsburgh debate, three members of the team and one alternate were selected to represent Davidson. R. B. Parker, B. Y. Ratchford, varsity debaters from last year, and Ed Powell, were named principals, and M. C. O'Neal, alternate. Speaking on the query, “Resolved, That the United States Government should control the coal mines,” the speakers were limited to seven minutes and were not allowed a rebuttal. Besides those mentioned above, W. T. Covington deserves praise.

The exact date for the debate has not been settled, but it will come on either the 5th or 7th of April. The time was originally set for the former date, but due to the fact that it comes during the Easter holidays, an attempt is being made to have the contest just after the resumption of scholastic activities.

The preliminaries for the other varsity debates, one held last Tuesday but too late for publication, and another on the 26th of this month, will finally decide who will represent Davidson in forensic activities this spring. For the debate of last Tuesday there were four debaters of a year ago: A. Y. Bowie, I. D. Wharton, H. L. Shaw, and C. W. Whillarney and one of 1925, W. H. Branch, took part beside a large number of Sophomores and other upper-classmen, the former representing a part of last year’s fresh team and the latter a number of leaders in literary society activities, were the main contenders. There were two teams selected at this time, one to represent Davidson against V. M. I. and the other to debate Sewanee. The query for both of these was the same: “Resolved,

(Continued on page 3)

PRAISE TO FACULTY

The officials of Davidson College have finally recognized the work of The Davidsonian editorial staff on Monday nights by excusing the men so employed from morning prayers the day following. Such is the recent action announced by Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Dean of the College, to the editor-in-chief of the paper Monday afternoon. For years the staff has worked regularly each Monday night until much nearer daybreak than midnight with the prospect of early chapel in a few hours facing them as they went to their rooms. There was much joy in the office Monday night when Fred Smith made the announcement.

New Picture Show to Open Here Soon

The heart of every Davidson student has been gladdened recently byThe announcement that a picture show is coming to town. The building formerly occupied by Carter's Garage has been under repairs for several weeks, and with the completion of the work on the building comes the above announcement. The theater will be under the ownership of Mr. Stough, superintendent of the cotton mills at Cornelius, who plans on giving only the highest class pictures. Mr. Stough is a former Davidson man. Work on the building is not yet complete, but he plans on opening the show about April 1st. Only the best pictures will be shown, and to that end he has been arranging contracts with some of the best-known filming companies, among them being First National Pictures and Paramount. There will be two shows each day, the first at 7:00 o'clock, and the second show at 9:00 o'clock. On Saturdays, there will be a Wild West show, or one of similar nature, in order not to conflict with the shows now being shown by the Davidson Y. M. C. A. There will probably be an afternoon show on Saturday. Final plans (Continued on page 2)

Honorary Fraternity Council Sponsors First General Bid-Day as Eight Fraternities Elect

Gastonia Shriners to be Heard Here

The noted Shrine quartet of Gastonia will appear in Shearer Hall on Tuesday night, March 16th, at 8:00 o'clock. The concert is sponsored jointly by the Senior class and the Y. M. C. A. Members of the quartet are: Lacy Adams, first tenor; D. H. Williams, second tenor; P. H. Thompson, baritone, and Herb Glenn, bass. The quartet will be supplemented by Mrs. Williams, a soloist of Southern-wide reputation. No musical company of comparable reputation has performed at Davidson in recent years. The Shrine quartet has toured Canada, California, and various intermediate points. Among its greatest successes were its concerts at Los Angeles, at a recent Shriner convention, where it was featured by all the leading journals. At Toronto and at Washington it received wide commendation. In an appearance at Chapel Hill last fall, the quartet made a big hit with the Carolina boys. Each one of the Shriners is a college man. Mrs. Williams has won recognition in various appearances in leading Southern cities. The musical program will be varied by numerous attractive features which have (Continued on page 2)

On Wednesday, eight of the honorary fraternities extended their spring bids following the injunction of the Honorary Fraternity Council, thereby initiating a uniform bid day for the first time. Thirty-six bids were given to members of the three upper classes, four Seniors, 26 Juniors, and eight Sophomores. By special permission of the Council, Omicron Delta Kappa is allowed to postpone its election until after the student body elections. The Biology Club, because of the tardiness of its fall election, was also granted an extension of time for this year only. Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity elected five members of the Junior class who have shown original interest or unusual talent in the literary arts. Sigma Upsilon is one of the oldest and largest national fraternities in the Honorary Council. Delta Pi Kappa, local journalistic organization, extended invitations to two Juniors and four Sophs who have rendered noteworthy service for The Davidsonian. Eight Juniors were elected to Scabbard and Blade, leading national military fraternity. These men have demonstrated conspicuous ability in the R. O. T. C. unit. The International Relations Club, member of a large national body, extended bids to two Juniors and two Sophomores, men who demonstrated their prowess and interest in (Continued on page 8)

New Rules Govern Norris Cup Award

At a recent meeting of the Athletic Council, it was decided that the Norris Trophy cup would be awarded to a student only once. The opinion of the Council was that if a man received the cup in his Sophomore or Junior year, it was very likely that he would again be the most likely candidate the next year and that it was only fair that someone else be given a chance to compete for it. This cup is given by the Norris Candy Company to the best all-round athlete and is the permanent property of the man who receives it. Members of any class are eligible for it. The cup was last awarded to F. T. Laird in 1924, the cup not being given last year. The winner will be decided by a popular vote of the student body after baseball season and the cup will be awarded during commencement.

W. P. Cummings, honor man of '21, has taken his M.A. and Ph.D. in English at Princeton and is spending the session at the University of Oxford, England. He is expected to be in Davidson in June to visit his parents, Rev. and Mrs. Cummings, of Japan.

W. R. Story is Elected Cheer Leader by Close Ballot Monday Morning

At an election last Monday morning, W. R. Story, of Marion, N. C., was elected cheer leader for next year, over C. W. Williams, Montgomery, Ala. The vote was very close, being 165 to 170 in Story's favor. Both of these men were elected assistant cheer leaders last fall over a field of eight candidates. In the election last fall, Williams led Story by a margin of three votes. They made their first appearance as assistant cheer leaders in the Wake Forest game and the students of Davidson will not soon forget the excellent work they did in this game. Story will call for all Sophomores expecting to go out for assistant cheer leaders next year so that they may serve during the coming baseball season. The election will be held next fall before the first football trip, as was done this year.

C. E. T. C. MEETS

The topic for discussion at the Christian Endeavor Training Class Sunday afternoon was “The Prayer Meeting Committee.” Bob Kell was the leader. The program was a continuance of the plan now being followed by the class of studying a part of the book “Expert Endeavor” each Sunday afternoon until every phase of Christian Endeavor work has been covered. Bob Covington, Tom Preer, and E. P. Moye made interesting talks on the subject under discussion, answering such questions as these: What should be the characteristics of the membership of the prayer meeting committee? What are its duties? How can it get more prayers into the prayer meeting? After each of these talks, the meeting was thrown open for discussion, and in this way many helpful suggestions were heard.

The next deputation from this class will go to the Young People’s Service League of Charlotte on April 18th. Other deputations, to be definitely announced later, are also under consideration.

Converse College Girls in Search of Ideal Man

Ideal of Girls Must Be Prototype of Youth, Beauty, and Charm

The girls at Converse College have gone and done it again! Not content with having their suspenders suspended and a quarantine levied on them to protect them from the masculine menace of the Davidson Glee Club, they have again asserted their independence of all trammelled and conventional habits and ideas. They have discovered the ideal man! Doing what Diogenes, Joan of Arc, and the Democratic party have been unable to do, they have found the perfect man, one who will fill the right place at both the right and the wrong times. This important discovery was not the result of accident nor chemical or mechanical mixture. The man in question is the composite hope and ideal of nearly five hundred maidenly hearts that claim Converse as their alma mater. The Parley Voo, the college's own news medium and press agent as well, instituted a college-wide poll of preferences to ascertain the exact type of pithecanthropus erectus, familiarly called man, for which the average Converse girl declared a preference. The following account is the tabloid result of much girlish sighing and vain imagining. Wofford, nearly five hundred strong, has already declared itself incapable of filling the number ten shoes of this mythical being. It now remains to find him at Davidson. Several members of The Davidsonian staff have been busy for the past few days with micro- (Continued on page 6)