10 - THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1926

DAVIDSON R.O.T.C. AIDS IN COLLEGE ACTIVITIES

The password of real military men is “Service.” Instances without number could be cited where the Regular Army, National Guard, and Reserve Corps have rendered valuable assistance to communities in time of peace, assistance extending in its scope from maintaining law and order to providing helpless women and children with shelter, food, and clothing. Wherever a local emergency may exist, military men stand ready in time of peace to be of service to those requiring it.

It is not even necessary for an emergency to exist in order to procure the co-operation of military men in this country. They are interested in bettering local conditions wherever they may be at all times. Davidson College’s R.O.T.C. is no exception to this military tradition. Members of the R.O.T.C. constitute the Davidson College Band, an organization very much in evidence at football and baseball games and one that plays a prominent part in maintaining college spirit on a high plane. The desirability of having a band at all outdoor athletic events is undisputed and the Davidson Band is playing its part, metaphorically and actually, toward making Davidson College a better college.

There is no municipal fire department in the town of Davidson. Nevertheless, the R.O.T.C. has a regularly organized fire department available for call at all times. While it is true that the fire-fighting equipment is not complete as engines, etc., at the same time local property owners feel that the R.O.T.C. affords an element of safety from loss by fire that is actual and not potential.

Parking space for visiting automobiles at football and baseball games is somewhat limited. With proper parking of cars, there is room enough for almost any crowd that may be present but, unfortunately, all car owners will ordinarily take more space than they actually require for parking purposes. In addition to this, they, in the mass, do not have a clear conception of traffic regulations. Both of these features of handling crowds are part of the accepted duties of the R.O.T.C. and during every football game on Richardson Field, members of the unit will be found handling with tact and efficiency the difficult traffic and parking problem. And after entering the gates, other uniformed men will be found ready to be of service to visitors in helping them locate their seats and performing general police duties.

Due to the unavoidable lack of athletic facilities, it has not always been possible for every member of the student body to get the amount of physical exercise required for the best physical and mental development. This fact was recognized in the past by one member of the R.O.T.C. who, having had some experience in such work, introduced mass games here for the benefit of the student body. Such action was merely in keeping with the military tradition of “Service.”

In at least two instances, members of the instructor staff of the R.O.T.C. have furnished their services in the matter of coaching.

Distinguished Colleges Picked By Army Officers

Colleges Must Qualify With High Scholastic Standing

IS HIGH HONOR

Only Twenty-Five Percent of Colleges Eligible for Rating

A school that is placed on the list of the Distinguished Colleges and Universities is signally honored because first it must have a high curriculum and show good military training. Graduates of that year must, by reason of discipline and training, be qualified for commissions in the army. Not over 25 percent of the colleges and universities maintaining units of the Senior Division R.O.T.C. which best meet the above requirements are eligible to be placed on this list.

When an institution is placed on this list, it means that the young manhood in that school is being especially trained and prepared and has proven adaptable to the tasks assigned to them. It means that the youth in that school has seen the vision of his nation and has prepared himself to defend it from all oppression. Thus, the colleges that win this Distinguished Rating prove to the world that their student bodies and their methods of instruction are better than those around them. It proves that those in authority have seen the crying need for such recognition and are lending all their energies to the task of training those under them so that if the time ever comes, they will be able to serve and serve intelligently.

If Davidson wins the Distinguished Rating, it will mean that it has fought hard with the old “Wildcat Spirit” despite being handicapped by the smallness of its student body as compared to that of some other schools and by the fact that there is only one branch of the service represented here, while some of the schools in this section have, besides an Infantry unit, Coast Artillery, Signal Corps, Field Artillery, Cavalry, and Air units. To overcome this, Davidson must show a proficiency in Infantry Close and [Ex-]...

HISTORY OF INSPECTORS (Continued from page 9)

...graduate of the Army War College, General...Staff School, School of the Line, and the Mounted Service School. Major Johnson was manager of the War Department polo team last year and team captain of the polo team that won the championship of the District of Washington last fall. This year he is again team captain of the War Department polo team and is considered an authority on this game around Washington. In addition to polo, he is interested in horse shows and usually has several entries in the numerous shows held in Washington. Aside from horsemanship, Major Johnson is interested in athletics generally, and he is reported to have been the author of the recent War Department order putting army athletics on an amateur basis. This action enables army teams to compete with college teams under various amateur athletic rules.

The Davidson R.O.T.C. is very glad to have Major Stockton and Major Johnson visit us. Aside from the fact that this is an official inspection, the unit feels that both gentlemen are our guests in a social way during their stay, and we hope to make them feel “at home.”

CAPT. GEO. H. WEEMS
(Continued from page 1)

He remained there for two years and was then detailed to come to Davidson. Captain Weems’ achievements in army life have been notable. He is a leading authority on machine gun work and was designated to review that part of the first R.O.T.C. textbook dealing with that subject. He was chief reviewer of the latest edition of that publication. Since coming to Davidson, Captain Weems has become one of the college’s most ardent supporters. Moreover, he has aided the school in large measure by his outside work. He has coached the wrestling team of the college for the past three seasons and turned out one of the best aggregations in the South this year. In recognition of his services in this capacity, the “D” Club recently elected him to honorary membership in that organization, being one of the four men upon whom this honor has ever been bestowed. Captain Weems is still an athlete of no mean ability, being a star polo player. He has recently engaged in a number of contests of this nature in Charlotte. Through Captain Weems’ untiring efforts, the R.O.T.C. department at Davidson has achieved its success and has become eligible for an honor rating. He has met the boys halfway and has made a course which is burdensome to many at least bearable. He has stimulated interest in the work so that the number of upper-classmen taking the advanced course is in excess of the number needed to fill the position of officers. Finally, he has placed the R.O.T.C. department on a level with the other departments of the college’s activity.

As time passes, this military unit will become more active and be in a position to render more efficient and conspicuous service to the college and community. The aim of the unit is to render constructive assistance wherever and whenever required. Its slogan is “Service.”

K.O.T.C. HEADQUARTERS

The present Armory building was erected in 1890 as a Y.M.C.A. building. It served in this capacity for several years and had a gymnasium and basketball court. Monk Younger, head athletic coach for Davidson, played basketball on this floor when he was a student here. Later, the first floor was given over to the R.O.T.C. department, and the second floor was fitted out. In 1924, the laboratory was moved to the temporary building, and the upper story was partitioned into classrooms for the English and Mathematics departments. Upon the completion of the south wing of New Chambers, these departments moved into new classrooms, and the R.O.T.C. now uses the entire building. The equipment and offices are located on the first floor, and classrooms for the four classes are upstairs.

Compliments of a Friend
Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies
Mooresville, N.C.

Stewart Park
Operated by the American Legion
Swimming Pool and Skating Rink.
Rink now open on Tuesday, Friday, and Saturday nights, 7:00 to 10:30 P.M.
Swimming Pool will open on Friday, Apr. 30th.
Clean suits to rent. Clean water to swim in. Concrete pool, modern in every way. Pure water with fresh water running in. Open every day except Sunday. We will be glad to have you.
Skating Price 25c. Open every day except Sunday.
With suits 25c. Suits furnished.
THE AMERICAN LEGION POST NO. 66
Mooresville, N.C.