THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1926

Lockhart’s Scotch Lassies Give Highly Entertaining Program Before Students

High-Class Productions Feature Week-End Shows.

Lockhart’s Scotch company, composed of Mr. J. Coates Lockhart and three lasses from the land of plaid and thistle, entertained
on the second number of the Junior Lyceum program last Thursday evening. The Shearer Hall audience was made up of
the major part of students.

The Lockhart group was Scotch in all but one respect. Although they boasted Scotch names, wore Scotch plaid and kilties,
and offered Scotch songs and humor, they were distinctly un-Scotch in their willingness to grant liberal encores. The students appeared
to receive especially well the ballads, humorous songs, and instrumental solos. For the better part of two hours, the audience
was granted the privilege of hearing a choicely balanced and highly entertaining lyceum program of music and readings.

Miss Ilene Redds played several selections of modern saxophonic jazz, Miss Mary Gorham showed fine skill with the violin, and
Miss Lucile Mylchreest joined Mr. Lockhart in a number of Scottish and classical vocal duets. Each of the ladies played
accompaniments on the piano, and Mr. Lockhart appeared in a number of recitations and clever interpretations of the dramatic solos
that have made Harry Lauder famous. The decidedly Scottish twang maintained throughout the evening in all departments of the entertainment
was unique, and the quality of the music discredited the popular belief that nothing good in the way of music
comes from Scotland.

The first part of the program was opened with “Lest We Forget” and the last with “Blue Bells of Scotland.”
Violin, piano, and saxophone combined in a medley ranging from classical numbers and Scottish ballads to such modern jazz as
“Brown Eyes.” Judging from the applause, the “eyes” won out although the entire offering seemed to be enjoyed.

An effective duet with dialogue entitled “A Short Cut” in which Mr. Lockhart attempted to direct Miss Mylchreest to the
next town was in the Scotch dialect. Favorite songs of McCormick, Kreisler, Masefield, and Sanderson rounded out the repertoire of
Mr. Lockhart and his Scotch Lassies. Mr. Lockhart explained the comic significance of the various details of a Scottish national
costume, distinguished as they are by the design of their plaid. He explained that the Davidson is a very numerous
and ancient clan in the old country. During the final musical selection, the Scotch entertainers demonstrated one of the native
dances.

In order to give all prospective shicks in college an idea of what it costs to be so popular with
the weaker sex, Mr. Rosy “Strawberry” McMillan has kindly permitted us to reprint this letter which he received some time
ago from Miss Gloria Swanson, of Hollywood, Cal. It is only one among many, but it serves to give some
idea of the kind of mail Mr. McMillan gets every day.

“Dear Mr. McMillan:

“No doubt you think I am very bold in writing to you, but really I am in earnest. You won't
get mad? Promise? Well, that’s that.

“Maybe you would care to know just what I look like. So I am sending you under separate cover a
life-size photograph of myself, and I sincerely hope that it will meet with your approval. Before I heard of you,
I played in the movies some, but since I have devoted my days to thinking of you and my nights
to dreaming of you. Are you a collegian? Well, anyway, I am. I attended Hollywood High but I didn’t finish
because they told me that my room was very much more desirable than my company. They had a terrible nerve,
didn’t they? I am 17 years of age, weigh about 115 pounds, have cat eyes, black curly hair, a school
girl complexion, and the skin you love to touch.

“I am Dago. What nationality are you? You have such a cute name, I just adore it.

“You may write me in care of the chief of police. I do not like him because of the way
he parts his hair, but I have been spending all of my time with him lately. He wants to keep
me for about three years, but I don’t know about that since I have heard of you.

“Yours and yours only,
“Gloria.”

STUDENT ASSIETY

Flake Laird spent one night at home during the Christmas holidays. He reports that he had a fine vacation but
it wasn’t so very successful, as he only brought back three new pictures for his table, and he had to
swipe two of them.

The Florida Special was a howling success. In fact, all of the rest of the train complained that three saxophones
howled all night.

Mr. Forrest T. Franklin spent the holidays with his girl, Miss Somebody's Darling, of Greenville, N. C.

Mr. Lucius Linton Deck drove to and from school in a U-Push-It. Just drop around to his room, he will
tell you all about the trip free of charge. Plenty of sleeping space without cost if you will only keep
your hands out of your ears.

New York City had as its guest for the holidays, Mr. Cornfed Derrick Smith, formerly of Trenton, Tenn., now of
New York. The key to the city jail was turned over in the lock after he entered its walls. Reports
from all New York papers state that he vamped all the nurses in four hospitals and ate peanuts in every
showhouse in the big city. He returned to school last week, after letting a gold digger swipe all of his
jack except two cents. She even slippedA note in his coat pocket said that she left the two cents so
that he would be able to write home.

Mr. Harry Lee Vance spent the holidays in Mount Mourne. His attorneys have advised him to make no statement until
a later date. Mr. John Fowler, of Statesville, N.C., spent the Yuletide in his home city. He will be able
to return to his work next week. As his Christmas gifts, Mr. Harllee Bordeaux received three quarts of gin and
a copy of the well-sung old song, “Show Me the Way to Go Home.”

Mr. Runt McLeod, per usual, had a gay time during the short vacation. He is reported to be steadily improving,
though he is still quite weak from the celebration. Frank Alford rode the Florida Special. He is still out on
bail. Mr. Bill Covington dropped back in three days late. He’s not talking, though. W. Harllee Branch, Jr., of the
Atlanta Journal, says that the snow last week “covered Dixie like the dew.”

Sister Sloan entertained at his room last Saturday evening. There were about two present. Among them were Roland Parker, Fred
Smith, the Third Floor of Watts, the basement of Shearer, and others, too inferior to mention. Several hot games of
drop the bandanna were played, after which Don Wharton played some incomprehensible sextettes on the shoe horn. Fried peanut hulls
flavored with red pepper sauce and onion tops were served. The room was gaily decorated with worn-out socks and cigars.
After the party was over, the student council held a very important meeting.

The friends and relatives of Mr. Woodham are very grieved to learn that the old gray mare died out in
Mississippi last week. No guests will be received until February 1st, and instead of flowers, donations of money are being
asked for. Send your checks to the editor of the peanut parcher, made out to Mr. Woodham.

Davidson is going to feature in the sprints this year, with John Currie stepping off yards like a warhorse, with
Goodykoontz prancing close on his heels. This is going to make a good pair for several races. And if Alf
Brand was here, there would be another good man in reserve.

Abraham Lincoln, Sally Irene and Mary, and The Midshipman to be Shown

The Y.M.C.A. committee in charge of selecting films for Saturday night movies recently announced a number of super-attractions to be
shown in the near future. All of the pictures are first-class productions and perhaps the most widely known is “Abraham
Lincoln.” This picture was produced by two men without desire for its pecuniary returns but simply to depict the true
life of this great American. The star of the picture has recently been claimed from pauperism in Chicago to play
in other attractions. He was unknown before and dropped into oblivion soon after the production was filmed, although it was
the greatest success of the year. Its initial showing made at two o'clock in the morning drew a crowd of
three thousand people, all of whom had been standing at the doors of the theater for hours to gain admittance.
This picture will be shown on February 20th.

Among other pictures to be shown are “Sally, Irene and Mary,” and “The Midshipman,” a picture filmed within the portals
of the United States Naval Academy. Another picture, “Classmates,” gives a vivid portrayal of life at West Point. The schedule
through February is as follows:

January 16—Learning to Love.
January 23—The Midshipman.
January 30—Stagestruck, the great stage success.
February 6—Classmates.
February 13—Sally Irene and Mary.
February 27—Shamrock.

Constance Talmadge is the star of the attraction Saturday night. Ably supported by Antonio Moreno, she vamps her way over
a select bevy of bachelors and in turn is won by the man of whose love she despairs.

Before you crawl into your bed,
Just pause a bit—
And scratch your head.
Then look down at
Your dirty sheet,
And send your laundry
Out next week.

After all, the real badge of a Davidson man is his aversion to grits and his poor digestion.

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant, 17 S. Tryon St.
The Best Places to Eat
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

NONE TOO SMALL
DUNN, President
JOHNSTON, Vice-President
R.A. DUNN, Vice-President
C.W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A.T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
W.B. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
I.J. DOAR, Assistant Cashier

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE

Tie a bright smile to trouble. A tidy red tin of Prince Albert, to be exact. There’s the greatest little
trouble-chaser in the known world. Smoke P.A. and pipe-grouches choose the nearest exit. Yes, Sir, P.A. is the stuff. Sunshine,
gladness, the light heart, the tin is right there with the Polly-anna. Because Prince Albert is the cheeriest, chummiest tobacco
that ever tumbled into a briar or corncob. Smoke P.A.—and smile. Cool, comfortable P.A. Fragrant, friendly P.A. Not a tongue-bite
or throat-parch in a ton of it. The Prince Albert process hung the “No Admittance” sign on Bite and Parch
the day the factory opened. Get a tidy red tin of P.A. today and give pipe-worries the gate.

PRINCE ALBERT—no other tobacco is like it!
P.A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top.
And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.
