THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 16, 1926

This section of The Davidsonian is strictly devoted to the funny doings of funny people and those who try to be funny. To the new men we wish to give the following tip: “If you don’t know how to be funny just act natural and your name is sure to appear with astounding frequency in these columns, that is, if you all are as green as those who have been unfortunate enough to have their greenness discovered the first week.”

We place the funniest joke first—Freshmen!

Westbrook—What an ugly Freshman!
Bordeaux—People who live in tin houses should refrain from casting can openers.

Pete says that the funniest thing he saw in Georgia this summer was a hen sitting on an axe trying to hatchet.

Aesop 13.

Once upon a time a college boy returned to college and his best friend met him at the station. He didn't ask him if he’d had a nice summer.
Moral: Always tell them before they have time to ask.

La Fontaine 14

Once upon a time a college man shook hands with an old classmate and told him how glad he was to see him. The classmate fainted. He learned that his friend didn't manage a boarding house.

Norwood—"What kind of a date did you have last night?”
Mitchell—“Boy, if she was beautiful she would be beautiful and dumb.”

We suggest the following sign to be placed over the door of Captain Weems’ U-Push-’Em fire house: “May this department be like an old maid, always ready but never called for.”

Hoo—"Can a snuff box?”
Doo—"No, but a tobacco can.”

Pinkney—"What’s the matter with Allen lately?”
Bohannon—"He ate some canary seed during his wife’s absence, thinking it was breakfast food, and he’s been sleeping with his head under his arm ever since.”

Also Time
I pressed a kiss upon her hand,
And there I put a ring;
She blushed and softly murmured,
“There’s a place for everything.”

Speaking of stingy people, there was a man at our boarding house who had two teeth extracted and then wanted his board reduced.

Heber says that it is not the brunettes that marry first, it is the light-headed ones.

Crinkley’s Father (after having punished John)—“Now what you think?”
John (rubbing eyes)—"Don't think nothing.”
C. F.—"Yes you do, you think ‘Dammit,’ and I’m going to whip you for that.”

Christian—“You're so ugly they always lock you up when company is around.”
Broyles—“Aw hush, Bill, you're uglier than I am when you can’t be seen.”

To ambitious young members of the green race we offer the following suggestions on “How to get your name in Peanut Parcher”:

1—Horse an upper-classman.
2—Talk loud while in the library.
3—Horse an upper-classman.
4—Smoke in the library.
5—Horse an upper-classman.
6—Put your feet on the library chairs or tables.
7—Horse an upper-classman.

Frierson, J. C.—“Father, what kind of bread is college bread?”
Father—“A-four-year loaf, my son.”

$32.50 $37.50

TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY
September 21-22

TAILORED CLOTHES

--At--

EU HALL

$42.50 $47.50

PRINCE ALBERT has been the campus favorite since the days of long-haired fullbacks, high button shoes, turtle-neck sweaters, and hand-painted dormitory cushions. This same wonderful tobacco is even more popular in these days of plus-fours.

And no wonder. Throw back the hinged lid of the familiar red tin and release that rare aroma of real tobacco! Tuck a load into your pipe and pull that fragrant P. A. smoke up the stem! That’s Prince Albert, Fellows! Nothing like it anywhere.

When problems press and your spirits slip over into the minus column, just get off your jimmy-pipe and load up with this really friendly tobacco. P. A. is so kind to your tongue and throat and general disposition. Buy a tidy red tin today.

PRINCE ALBERT

P.A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process—no other tobacco is like it!

1926, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N.C.

Fresh Country Vegetables

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

BARNETT AND COMPANY
GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Please come in and examine our fine line of Stationery.
Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
LAD to serve you every day and Sunday, too.
SANITARY CAFE
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

Dyeing, Cleaning, Pressing, Altering
CITY DRY CLEANERS
Ask any customer—24 hour service
Branch Mgr. Harllee Bordeaux. Branch Office, 21 Rumple

WHOLESALE
Wines, Liquors, Cigars
26-28 S. College St.