8. THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 18, 1925

Four Seniors Win Over Large Field in Preliminary Contest for Senior Medal

R. B. Parker, A. H. Hollingsworth, B. U. Ratchford, and A. Y. Bowie were judged the four best Senior speakers at the preliminaries, held last week, and will enter the contest for the Senior Oratorical Medal to be held during commencement. F. T. Franklin is the alternate. The other men who spoke in the try-outs were T. C. Barr and G. M. Eddington. Unusual ability was shown in the try-out, and the opinion of all who heard the speeches is that they were the best delivered at a similar occasion in several years. The final contest will feature one of the evenings of commencement.

The judges of the preliminaries were Prof. W. I. Porter, Dr. J. M. McConnell, and Dr. J. D. Beatty. These members of the faculty have heard many such speeches and were well chosen for their positions.

Parker's talk was entitled “Vestiges of Intolerance.” It dealt with the remnants of the more cruel and harsh intolerance of former periods of history which are prevalent today. Among the sub-topics that he emphasized were the race prejudice in the South, the prejudice against women, and the prejudice against the discoveries of modern science in politics and among the religious peoples.

Hollingsworth spoke on “The Man Who Stands Alone.” He went through history and pointed out the most notable figures who had stood against the world in defense of their convictions. These men, he said, are the men who accomplished things. The lives of Columbus and Woodrow Wilson were the main examples or illustrations used.

“The League of Nations” was the title of Ratchford’s oration. He attacked with much force the isolation policies of the United States and the cancellation of allied war debts. World peace was the underlying thought in the talk, and Ratchford made a strong appeal for this in his closing remarks.

Bowie took as his subject “The Man With the Open Mind.” Bowie showed that the man who had advanced thought and the keen grasp to separate truth from the false, which always accompanies it, had brought prosperity to the earth. The men he used as examples were Columbus, Galileo, and Woodrow Wilson.

The alternate, F. T. Franklin, spoke on “Our National Hymns.” He discussed “Maryland, My Maryland,” “The Star-Spangled Banner,” and “America” in the order named. He made a very interesting and entertaining speech out of what would seem to be a prosaic topic for an oration.

Town News

The Thelemites Club met with Miss Mary Young on Friday last for their monthly social meeting. Mrs. John Currie, of Fayetteville, spent the weekend at the home of Dr. Martin with her son, A. L. Currie. The Young Matrons’ Club met with Mrs. Dusenbury Friday afternoon. The Music Club, a recent organization composed of the musical and music-loving people of Davidson, met with Mrs. Dougherty last Tuesday evening.

The Bachelor's Club, composed of the unmarried men of the faculty, entertained some young ladies of the town at a valentine party last Friday evening. The place of the entertainment was the hall of the Theta Upsilon Omega fraternity. Delicious refreshments were served in the shape of hearts with cupids on them. Ice cream, individual heart-shaped cakes with fancy icing, heart-shaped mints, and heart-shaped baskets with salted nuts made up the refreshments.

There will be a Colonial Tea with a silver offering at the gym on the evening of February 22nd, for the benefit of the high school. Old-fashioned costumes and a band of fiddlers will feature the occasion.

WILDCATS LOSE (Continued from page 1)

However, the game being tied no fewer than three or four times, the Clemson five always showed a slight superiority over the visitors after the first few minutes of play.

End of Half

At the end of the first half, Clemson was leading by the score of 14 to 12. This two-point lead was overcome shortly after the second stanza began, and Laird came back into the game with blood in their eyes. The Wildcats played the same stellar game that they launched in the earlier part of the first half. By a powerful offensive that caused the local home club rooters to shudder, the Wildcats took a two-point lead on the locals. The score was soon tied, and then...

Clemson (32) - Davidson (30)
Brock (15) - Laird (12) Position, Forward
Shuman (8) - Houie (5) Forward
Roy (9) - Wilson Center
Anderson (12) - McLean Guard
Harrison (1) - Hutchison Guard

Substitutions: Mills, Palmer, Simpson. Referee: Richards.

YOUR BARBER SHOP

When in Statesville and you require those finishing touches, drop in and let us do the work.

THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP
Statesville, N. C.

BOYS!

For the latest magazines
For the best smokes
For the most refreshing drinks
For toilet articles of the highest quality

WALTER CULBRETH
Next to Vance Hotel
Statesville, N. C.

Exchanges

There has been a very animated warfare in the columns of the “Old Gold and Black” and the “Tarheel,” over the recent defeat handed to Carolina by the Wake Forest quintet. The trouble arose when Carolina appeared to rob the glory of victory from the Deacons by various and sundry alibis. They attributed their victory to luck and to the small court which was entirely new and unfamiliar to the University crew. A harsh and bitter reply followed from Wake Forest in which they accused Carolina of being a poor loser. The Deacons stated that any team in the South would have lost under similar conditions, for the fact that it played on the eve of Garrity’s resignation made them determined to win.

It's a grand and glorious time to remember all of those fine resolutions about studying throughout the term, which were made along about examination time. That wasn't very long ago, but lots of them seem to have been forgotten.All about them we got off of our dust as soon as easy, Carolinian. In a comparison of grades made during the past term at Richmond University, it was found that 76 per cent of the marks made by participants in athletics, 70 per cent of those made by fraternity members, and 77 per cent of those made by men engaged neither in athletics nor fraternities were passing. From these statistics, it appears that the grouping of men on the campus does not materially affect the general average. —Cluster.

Reportorial Prize
Continuing its tradition, Delta Chi, a member of Sigma Delta Chi, offers an international gold watch to any college newspaper staff member who, in the past twelve months, shall have performed the most notable piece of reportorial work for his publication. The prize was awarded to “Jim” Elliott of Indiana University and Peter Burtness of the University of North Dakota in the previous two years. —Intercollegiate World.

Fords, those canny machines which were invented by the uncanny Henry Ford, appear, on the basis of an exhaustive investigation, to be the most popular means of conveyance among the riding clique of the Furman faculty. Of the thirty-odd faculty members, twenty prefer mechanical methods of transportation, while the rest still stick to pedestrianism as safe, sane, and sound. Half of those who burn the national liquid use Fords, in one shape or another. These ten are generally agreed among themselves that the old “Tin Lizzie” cannot be surpassed for its ability to come and go. It might be practicable for this part of the faculty to organize a “Ten Fords Club.” —Hornet.

No exams were posted Monday. This was last Sunday. Grades are over. The nurse reports an overflowing infirmary. No casualties reported. —Davenport Record.

A Composition on Kings
The most powerful king is wor-king;
The laziest, shir-king;
The wittiest, jo-king;
The quietest, thin-king;
The thirstiest, drin-king;
The slyest, win-king;
The noisiest, tal-king;
The hottest, smo-king;
The most popular, nec-king;
—Parley Voo.

The first stage of the Fourth Corps Area Rifle Match was fired during the past week. Previous to this time, 15 students had been chosen to represent Davidson. The 10 highest scores are used to represent Davidson in the match. Davidson made 1,819 out of a possible 2,000. Buford Webb, F. E. Brown, and T. L. Short tied for first place with scores of 186 each. As the scores have not been received from other colleges in the Fourth Corps Area, it is not known how high Davidson will rank in the contest. However, Captain Daugherty reports that things look encouraging and believes that Davidson will place high in the meet. The second stage will be fired this week. The positions of prone and kneeling will be fired.

Adams-Welsh Quartette Entertains Students in Fourth Lyceum Program
Excellent Program is Presented Before Large Audience as Fourth Lyceum Number
Presenting the fourth Lyceum number of the year Monday night in Shearer Hall, the Junior class offered to the public the best program of the year in the Adams-Welsh Quartet. Although the songsters were unheralded, quite a large and appreciative audience was present to hear the well-presented program.

The personnel of the quartet was Mr. Dasley, first tenor; Mr. Robert Weston, tenor; Mr. Adams, second bass; and Mr. John Bierbon, accompanist and manager. The individual members of the quartet explained that, due to the fact that in Wales, the singing was done more or less en masse, they realized it would be impossible to give a perfect rendition of the original. Although the majority of the presentation was given over to Welsh songs, a number of Scotch, Irish, and American airs were rendered. Probably the outstanding and undoubtedly most appreciated number was "Humoresque," a piano solo by Mr. Bierbon, with the other members joining in with familiar old-time songs. Two readings, “Not Understood” and “Lessons From a Game of Cards” or “A Game of Life,” together with “Annie Laurie,” “Up With the Jolly Roger,” and “My Love to the Woods” proved to be the next most popular.

STATE VOLUNTEERS (Continued from page 1)
The first session, Friday evening at 7:30, will open with Dr. Poteat speaking on "The Spirit of Modern Youth." The last session on Sunday night will feature Dr. Soper presenting “The Challenge of Missions.” Registration cards and fees should be sent to Miss Mary Stuart, N. C. C. W., Greensboro, N. C., immediately. The registration fee is $0.50. The total cost of the conference, outside of transportation to and from Greensboro, will be $5.00. The delegates will be entertained in the homes of the townspeople with breakfast each morning. Meals other than breakfast will be served in the college dining hall at the cost of 50 cents each. I. D. Witherspoon and Kelsey Regen are in charge of the Davidson registration. Anyone can get cards from them or find out more of the particulars.

IMPERIAL
Charlotte, N. C.
Now Playing
RICHARD DIX
in
“Woman Handled”
It’s full of pep
Coming Monday for Four Big Days
COLLEEN MOORE
in
“IRENE”
Her greatest since “Flaming Youth”

ON THE CAMPUS
February 23rd.
Suits carefully designed by our college shop at Fashion Park to meet the requirements of college men. Quality and style to warrant value. First showing beginning Tuesday, Representative, “BUCK” SHAW

THE W. G. PENRY CO.
“THE OLD STORE WITH YOUNG IDEAS”