THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON | Vol. XIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C, SEPTEMBER 30, 1926 No. 3

Boyce Martin Selected As Chairman of Junior Speaking Plans Tuesday
Wins Out Over Withers in Final Ballot

VOTE IS CLOSE
No Lyceum Will Be Given This Year—Money Will Be Raised Elsewhere

In an election held last Tuesday morning, Boyce Martin was chosen by the Junior class as Chairman of the Junior
Speaking Committee. Martin won out over Withers by a single vote on the final ballot, the count being 41 to
40. W. L. McColgan and W. L. Lingle were also nominated for the position but were eliminated in the first
round of votes. Martin is a leader in his class, being the incumbent of several responsible positions at the present
time. He is a member of the Student Council, assistant managing editor of The Davidsonian, Junior basketball manager, and a
member of the Quips and Cranks staff. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

The Junior class has definitely abandoned the presentation of a Lyceum program as given in past years. The main purpose
of these entertainments has been to raise money to help carry out the Junior Speaking program and in this capacity
they have completely failed, having never produced more than $25 or $50 during the whole season. Some other entertainment is
likely to be presented, which will probably take the form of the class taking part themselves. Committees to aid in
the production of Junior Speaking have been appointed but their names are not available at the present time.

STARS IN WILDCAT VICTORY
Joe McConnell, Wildcat center, who scored the first touchdown of his college career in the game with the Wofford Terriers
last Saturday, when he dashed 55 yards through the Wofford team after intercepting a forward pass. McConnell will be a
popular candidate for all-state honors this season.

HONORARY BID DAY
The second Tuesday in October, the 12th day of the month, has been set by the Honorary Fraternity Council as
Bid Date for the honorary groups comprising the Council. The men elected at the fall membership elections in the several
societies will receive their invitations the morning of that day. The Biology Club has been granted permission to bid at
a date some weeks later, and exercising this privilege, perhaps will not bid at this time.

Three Seniors Elected to Publications Board
Branch, Wharton and Austin, Three Editors of Publication, to be Student Members

Dr. Martin Discusses Need for Fund in Interview With Davidsonian Reporter
No Definite Plan Yet For Expansion in Near Future

PLEDGES UNPAID
Adequate Physical and Biological Laboratories Are the Greatest Need at Present

In an interview Saturday with a representative of The Davidsonian, Dr. Martin stated that the greatest need of the college
at the present was a sufficiently large building fund. The sources of such a fund, the president added, were far
from certain. “At present, our only income for building are the pledges from the various campaigns. The returns from such
pledges are indefinite to say the least,” declared Dr. Martin, “and depend entirely on the mood of the giver. It
is only with a large building fund that anything can be accomplished.” “No, there are no definite plans for expansion
in the near future,” was the answer to the question regarding certain rumors currently circulating.

On Thursday morning the election for the Press Bureau was run off between six men nominated from the different publications
of the student body. The duty of this bureau is to serve on these committees. The dates for Junior Speaking
this year (Continued on page 3)

Wood Elected Graduate Manager of Athletics
Popular Professor Succeeds Doctor Douglas in Important Place on Athletic Council

With the opening of the new year, Professor Wood took over his duties as the graduate manager of athletics at
Davidson. He has taken the place of Dr. J. M. Douglas, who has been the graduate manager since the creation
of the office. Professor Wood will be known as the chairman of the Faculty Committee on Athletics, in order that
he may attend all the meetings of the Athletic Association. Mr. McGill, who is with the office of the Business
Administration of the college, has been appointed to assist Professor Wood with the work of the committee, as its duties
are many and important. The chairman of this committee helps the team managers in the arrangement of the schedules, and
has the supervision of all the games or contests staged by the college. It is also his duty to be
the treasurer of the association, and to act as a member of the committee for the appointment of coaches. Professor
Wood became a member of the faculty in 1916, and since that time has shown an active interest in college
athletics. As a capable financier, he will be of great advantage to the teams, and to the association, ensuring them
of a successful season in that element. He has evidenced on many occasions his ability as an organizer, and is
well prepared to continue the splendid work Dr. Douglas has done for that branch of college activity. Dr. Douglas has
been indispensable to the Athletic Association, and while it is known that Professor Wood will efficiently direct the work of
the association, deep regret is felt because of Dr. Douglas' retirement.

Approximately 30 Juniors have been appointed to serve on these committees.

Class Basketball, Under Direction of Manager Carroll, Started Last Tuesday
The prospects this year are excellent for four good teams. The managers have been elected by the different classes, and
the schedule will start on the 4th. The teams will be coached by last year’s varsity men who are not
out for football. Practice started Wednesday in the gym with a good number of representatives from each class. Last year
the Sophomores, or the present Juniors, won the championship. It is logical that this class should win, because none of
the Sophomores have an opportunity to make the varsity team until after the class basketball season is over, and thus
this class has practically the team it had the year before. This year, however, the Juniors and Seniors promise to
put up a hard fight, and it looks like the Sophs will have to work mighty hard to take off
the honors. The Seniors have lost a good many of their last year’s men, but Calhoun and Womack are back,
and several other good men showed up for practice the first part of the week. Anderson and Simpson made varsity
letters last year, and are therefore ineligible for the class team this year. Keerans did not return to school this
year. The Juniors have McCaulay and Withers back from last year, with several new men out. Millner will probably be
unable to play because of a bad knee. Ben Wilson will be ineligible on account of making a varsity letter
last year. The Sophomores have, with few exceptions, their first team of last year. Although a few men failed to
return to school, other men are back. It is too early to predict what the Freshmen will do. They have
several good men out, and should be able to work up a good team.| team, | Coach Monk Maddox will
again handle same with few exceptions and will start his practices as soon as he has completed his work with
the Freshman football team. George Batte is manager of the Fresh team. Most of the training of the beginner basketeers
will be handled by Coach Maddox.

College Activities Get Holiday to Students Going to State College Game

Junior Stunt Night, in which the members of the Wenberg band will participate, is to direct the activities of the
three major publications on the Hill and also to govern the minor ones. Each publication selects two nominees, who are
then placed before the student body. The six men chosen by the publications were: W. H. Branch, Jr., of Atlanta,
Ga.; B. F. Martin, of Atlanta, Ga., of The Davidsonian; H. M. Austin, of Laredo, Texas; W. C. Ogden, Mobile,
Ala., of The Davidson College Magazine; L. D. Wharton, of Smithfield, N. C.; J. H. Hall, of Statesville, N.C., of
the Quips and Cranks. The three elected by the student body are the three editors of the publications: Branch, Wharton,
and Austin. All these men are Seniors and have been in active literary work since their Freshman year.

The Only Students Attending Game Will Be Excused

SPECIAL TRAIN

Train Will Leave Davidson at 7:30 A.M. and Return From Raleigh at 7:30 P.M.

The petition for a holiday to be given to all students attending the North Carolina State game to be played
at Raleigh, October 14th, has been granted by the executive committee, with provisions. It has been a custom in the
past for the executive committee to grant a holiday of this kind each year. The date for the holiday is
chosen by a vote of the student body, and this year almost everyone was in favor of the day of
the State game. A bigger and better special is to be run this year than ever before. Usually, the railroad
puts the oldest and most dilapidated coaches obtainable on these specials, but this year larger and newer coaches and even
a shinier engine have been promised. From the number who have promised to go on the special, it will be
well loaded with hearty support for the Wildcats.

A few modifications were made by the executive committee to the petition as submitted by the student body. The special
train will leave Davidson about 7:00 a.m., October 14th, and will have to leave Raleigh not later than 7:30 p.m.
that night. Classes will be held regularly the day after the game. Only those who ride the special train to
the game will be excused from classes. As last year, those who remain on the campus will have to attend
classes, so the holiday will not include them at all. Arrangements are being made to take the band to the
game on the special train. Their expenses will be paid and they will be admitted to the game merely on
identification. The tickets for the special will cost about six dollars for the round trip. There is some possibility that
a special train will be run to the P. C. game as was done last year. If this is done,
class periods on Saturday will be shortened five minutes so that students may eat dinner at 1:00 o'clock and leave
at 1:30. The train would reach Rock Hill just in time for the game. Tickets would cost about a dollar
and a half.

The Publications Board

This board is authorized by article seven of the student body constitution. This article reads as follows: There shall be
chosen annually a body to be known as the Publications Board. This board shall have complete supervision over the financial
administration of the three student publications, The Davidsonian, The Davidson College Magazine, and the Annual. This board shall be composed
of five members, three students elected by the student body and two faculty members appointed by the college administration. The
three student members shall be elected from six nominees—the staff of each publication nominating two of this number. The president
of this board shall be one of the student members and shall be elected at the first regular meeting of
the board. The business managers of the above-named publications shall be appointed by and shall be directly responsible to the
Publications Board. Recommendations for the business manager of each publication shall be submitted to the board by the staff of
that publication. This board shall meet at least once every month. The business manager of each publication shall be required
to submit a complete financial report at each regular meeting of the board. The board shall have the power to
remove from office any business manager who is found to be incompetent or undesirable.

The general income of the college and the "Duke money" will be employed entirely in the improvement and upkeep of
the present plant. The Richardson Stadium is the only item on the building program, unless another such splendid gift is
received. When asked about the work on the Freshman field, Dr. Martin said that it was classed as an improvement
to the plant. The funds for this work are from the general income of the college and the Athletic Association.
As money accumulates, what is the next building planned? Is there any possibility of a new dormitory in the near
future? In answer to these questions, the president replied: (Continued on page 2)

Dr. Oren Moore Speaks at “Y” Vespers Sunday

Well Known Charlotte Physician Speaks to Students on “The Thing That Lasts”

Dr. Oren Moore, a well-known Charlotte physician, delivered a very interesting address at the “Y” services Sunday night. Dr. Moore
is a graduate of Davidson and while a student here was a member of the football team. He is well
known to all Davidson men and has appeared at the vesper services before. The subject of his talk was, “The
Thing That Lasts.” He began his address by picturing the triumphant entrance of the old Roman conquerors with all their
splendor. Then he called attention to the law of the Medes and Persians which was unchangeable at the time, but
today the splendor of the Roman conquerors and the laws of the Medes and Persians have been forgotten and are
only heard of in history. The culture of the Greeks and the glory of the old Egyptian kings were used
by the speaker as another example of the instability of popularity. If all these things are true, the speaker asked
the question, What is permanent? He answered this question with the word, “Truth.” He quoted the Bible—"Know the truth, and
the truth will make you free.” In knowing the truth, he said that the first thing necessary was to know
the truth about yourself. If a man is a physical coward but has character, he can overcome this weakness, as
proved by an illustration of an American soldier in France, who after fainting at a slight wound, rescued eighteen men
from the wire entanglement. Next, he said, “Know the truth about the other fellow.” In knowing the truth about the
other fellow, one is able to judge the ability of the other man. (Continued on page 5)
