THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 21, 1926

Rev. Laurence Little, ’25, has recently become assistant pastor of Grace Protestant Methodist Church in Greensboro, N.C.

Rev. A. M. Mitchell, '22, who recently graduated from Union Theological Seminary, has been called as pastor to the Presbyterian Church at Selma, N.C.

“How did David kill Goliath?”
“He just rocked him to sleep.”

“What’s a triple threat?”
“That’s easy—wine, women ’n song.”

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N.C.

BOYS! They’re Coming In
Cowboys Return to Hill After Successful Trip
Scrub Team Wins Only One Game But Has Exciting Trip
Matmen Take One-Sided Match From Concord
Wrestling Team Wins All But One Match by Straight Falls

SPORTOGRAPHS By Boyce Martin

The basketball team doesn’t seem to have quite hit its natural stride as yet. The regular program now seems to be to win a game and then lose one. At times the team has been real flashy and played like real champions, and then again it has sunk to a state bordering on the mediocre.

Returning to the campus late Thursday after a barn-storming trip in the western portion of the state, the “Cowboys” had engaged in three hard-fought games. These men of Coach Tilson’s squad left Davidson Tuesday for Hickory to engage the Hickory Athletic Club on that night. The game with this club was hotly contested throughout. The team representing Hickory was composed almost entirely of former Lenoir College stars. Hickory won this game 18 to 14.

The next day, the team moved some 30 miles over the mountains to Valdese, where they engaged the Athletic Club of that town, practically the entire team being composed of foreigners, as this settlement is a French one. The Wildcats won this encounter to the tune of 26 to 13.

The following day the squad sojourned to Lenoir, where they met the Lenoir Athletic Club. This game proved to be the high water mark of the trip. The game started off with a bang, first one team and then the other leading. The Wildcats played brilliantly, but the game ended in a tie, and an extra period was necessary to determine the winner. Lenoir finally won, 42 to 41.

The men making this trip were: Baker, Calhoun, Farrell, Moore, S. W., Lawson, Goodykoontz, McAuley, and Cook. In addition to these, D. M. McComb accompanied the team as manager. The playing of Calhoun was the only outstanding event of the tour. In the last game of the series, he scored 15 points in the second half. McAuley, at guard, played consistent ball.

It appears from all reports that the Cowboys indulged in more outdoor sports than basketball. Since real cowboys have small opportunity to take part in such activities, they took advantage of the situation and swapped the basketball for snowballs. Cowboy Tom Baker reports that this was his first experience with snow.

But no team can stay in a slump long with such a coach as Monk. The boys on the squad have been really putting out for the last few days, and when the season begins again after exams, the quintet should be able to go a long way toward obtaining sweet revenge from the N.C. State five.

At the same time that Captain Laird was leading his men to a victory over Wofford, Captain Cox was leading his men to a conquest of the Concord grapplers. Captain Cox and his team won every match, except one, by falls, leaving the score 30 to 5 in favor of the Wildcats.

In the 119-pound class, Frierson won by a fall from Deaton, of Concord. In the 129-pound class, Barrington won by a fall from Morgan. In the 139-pound class, Davis won by a fall. In the 149-pound class, Cox won from Easley by a fall. In the 158-pound class, Crinkley lost to Denny, captain and coach of the Concord grapplers, by a fall. In the light-heavyweight, Vance won from Hoover by a fall. In the heavyweight class, Maulden won from Codell by a fall. Vance threw his man in a little over two minutes, the fastest work of the meet.

Denny, coach and captain of the Concord team, is one of the best wrestlers in this part of the state. Coach Weems made the statement that Crinkley, even though he was thrown, showed up well against him. The Concord team has been training since early fall. Good results have been obtained and their team showed up better against the Wildcats than it has done before. The Wildcats, also, according to Coach Weems, showed good form in all the matches.

After the regular matches had been completed, Denny, of Concord, and Vance, of Davidson, put on an exhibition match. They had agreed to call time at the end of five minutes, but Denny was forced to quit before the time expired on account of a broken nose, which he received when he charged into the head of Vance, attempting to bring him to the mat.

Davidson seems to have a jinx on these Concord athletic teams. The Wildcat wrestling team won out in all but one of the matches in the meet held in Concord last Saturday night. But they will have a chance to avenge their defeat since the two teams will meet again the first part of February.

The schedule for the remainder of the season is as follows:
Concord at Davidson, February 6.
February 13, V.P.I. at Blacksburg.

Listless Boxing Match Marks First Exhibition
Bout Between Letts and Ramsay Results in Draw—Grey and Flinn to Fight

The exhibition boxing match staged at the gym before a large crowd between halves of the Wofford-Davidson basketball game marked the initial appearance.of that sport at Davidson College. Fitts, of the Senior class, stepped three two-minute rounds with Frosh Ramsay, both entering the ring in the lightweight class. The bout was void of spectacular action and at times was a listless affair. The bout was started with a rush; both pugilists waded in and mixed it up, but soon the storm calmed down and with the exception of an exchange of a few blows, the match became a sparring bout. At times both opponents showed very good form, especially considering what little training and ring technique they have received. The fight was a no-decision bout and declared a draw. On the night of February 6th, Captain Elkins promises a real match which will be between Dick Grey and Frosh Dick Flynn. This bout will probably be the best of the season as both men are good fighters and about evenly matched.

1827-1925 Columbia Theological Seminary Columbia, S. C.

The Synod of Mississippi and Columbia Theological Seminary Join Forces. Resolution in Regard to the Columbia Theological Seminary, Adopted November 13, 1924.

“The Synod of Mississippi has heard with pleasure the plan for the removal of Columbia Theological Seminary to the City of Atlanta, Ga. I. Does hereby accept said offer of the Board of Directors of the said Seminary when the removal of the Seminary shall have become an assured and legal fact. II. And as this removal may be thus assured before another meeting of Synod, it does hereby appoint as Directors in said Seminary: Rev. C. W. Grafton, D. D., Rev. J. B. Hutton, D. D., Mr. R. F. Kimmons respectively for one, two, and three years.”

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, President

February 26, N. C. State at Davidson. March 11, Duke at Duke. March 13, Navy Plebes at Annapolis. Manager Frierson is trying to arrange a meet with Carolina, to be held either on the trip to Annapolis or on the return. No definite arrangement has been made at the present.

Coach Bob Fetzer

New Suits New Overcoats New Hats New Neckwear New Sox

Come in and inspect them before making your purchases.

The Tate-Brown Co.

Crore Quits University

On January 14th, Coach W. M. Fetzer, of the University of North Carolina, turned in his resignation, in spite of the fact that he had still two more years to fill of a five-year contract. The graduate manager, C. T. Woolen, said that his resignation was accepted, but as yet no one has been chosen to fill his place.

Coach Fetzer is a former Davidson student, of the class of 1902. He was a letterman in two major sports here, and after graduating, came back to coach the teams in various sports. After leaving here, he went as a coach to N. C. State, and there turned out the championship team of 1920. In 1921 he went to Carolina, and had been there up to this month. During his stay there he and his brother, R. A. Fetzer, have turned out 15 of 22 state championships, and four Southern titles. His brother will remain there as head of athletics. The coach recently sold his boys’ camp near Brevard, N. C., for $125,000, clearing $85,000, and is going to make his home there, with the intention of going into the real estate business.

Carolina is losing in him one of the best coaches that it has ever had, and will have a hard time filling his place. He and his brother have organized athletics there, and have put Carolina on the map as one of the best of the South, with teams that have been consistent in winning honors.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH THE BEST OF COOKING Charlotte, N. C.

So far there has not been a single match played. The pugilists exhibited some of their talent at the gym Saturday night between the halves of the basketball games. It would be rather straining a point to call it a boxing match, but it provided plenty of entertainment for everyone at any rate.

Football will be with us again in about two more weeks. The annual spring practice will begin about the first of February under the direction of Coach Tex Tilson and will continue for the following six weeks. This will be an excellent time for the coaches to examine the fresh material carefully and begin building a team for the 1926 season. With 16 lettermen planning to return in the fall, and with all the fresh team of the past season eligible, Wildcat prospects appear to be bright.

It seems rather early to begin football again, but down at Furman practice began last Monday. And incidentally, Furman will have a tough time next year filling the gaps in the line caused by the loss of eight lettermen. Only one varsity lineman is returning to school in the fall.

And still speaking of football, Flake Laird certainly played a beautiful game down in Atlanta during the Christmas holidays. His prep alma mater, University School, was challenged by their ancient rivals, Tech High, and their championship team of 1924. Flake was called on to play his old position of fullback and he did it nobly. It was his interference that paved the way for a 97-yard run by one of his teammates.

The minor sports seem to have the spotlight right at present. The wrestlers, boxers, and men on the rifle team are all working diligently every day. And if this warm weather keeps up, the tennis team will soon be out working every day.

The library has just received “An Introduction to the Study of the New Testament,” written in Chinese, by Dr. Donald W. Richardson, ’02, who is engaged in religious work at the Nanking Theological Seminary, Nanking, China.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED MORALLY CONDUCTED “FRED’S” RECREATION HALL BILLIARDS 205 West Trade Street (upstairs) Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte

We Sell Spalding, Wright & Ditson, Goldsmith, Reach, O’Shea Knit Goods

MYERS HARDWARE & SPORTING GOODS COMPANY 18 East Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it with you as you go In College Display Room every Friday 10:00 A. M. to 4:00 P. M.

Harrison Clothing Co. Appleby & Milton, Mgrs. Wholesale

When You Need Candy See Us 26-28 S. College St CHARLOTTE, N. C.