THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1926

Wiles of Davidson Sheiks Unbearable to Modest Rural Maiden From Queens

The All-Fool’s number of the Queens Blues, which was published at that college last week, contained a thrilling account of
the first visit of a country girl to the gay boulevards of Davidson. The writer, who evidently has profited by
her harrowing experiences, solemnly warns her sister students to stay as far as possible from the dens of iniquity where
brazen young men stay up until nine-thirty at night and smoke cigarettes right before the girls. Despite all warning, however,
a fair bevy of Queens girls meandered over to enjoy the fireworks here and from all reports they enjoyed the
thrills!

The young lady herself may have come. Although she is only a farmer's daughter, she knew her oats when it
came to realistically describing things hereabouts. But let her rather voluminous letter tell the tale:

“No sir, I tell you I don't go to Davidson again, Junior Speaking or no Junior Speaking. I was up
there on what they call a fraternity house party in November and I hope that my ma’s daughter will never
be seen in Davidson city again. This Boy Friend of mine, what was is no more. If I should meet
him on the street this very day I wouldn't look at him.

“Well, I'll tell you all about it—I left Charlotte Saturday afternoon at three o'clock in one of those handsome automobiles
arriving at Davidson at four o'clock. Of course, my Boy Friend met me and he was powerful glad to see
me, for it had been thirteen years since we had seen each other. My eyes fell at once to the
mobs of boys who were running in all directions. The queerest dressed boys I ever had the displeasure of meeting.
They actually wore trousers that looked like skirts at the bottom; some of them, big as they were, were wearing
short trousers too, and shoes that were the shape of violin cases. I shall never forget the coats some of
them were wearing. They looked exactly like bell-hops, and I told my Boy Friend I hoped he had better taste
than to ever buy one. However, I changed my mind that night, for I know he could have looked better
in that funny coat than the suit he was wearing which made him look like a boll weevil. Those mush
tackies, the boys called them, made them look and appear like imbeciles. So much for their appearances.

“Their language was Greek to me; everything was ‘Enoch, did the sweet thing come; peacherina and three to carry; shoot
her a hefty line; atta boy, let’s mozey to the frat.’ Whoever heard of such words? I was flabbergasted. Supposedly
educated men acting and talking like cannibals.

“After so long a time we came to what was called the fraternity house. I had learned that the word
frater in Latin meant brother, but I soon found out that fraternity was not a derivative of the word frater,
for the boys fought like cats and dogs, actually breaking phonograph records on one another's heads. I was scared senseless,
but my Boy Friend wouldn't let me leave.

“Those boys, boys, boys—what is the world coming to? I actually blush when I think of the way they held
the girls’ hands. I heard they would do it if they had a chance, but I did not believe it
until I saw it.

“One boy, not a gentleman, tried to hold mine, but I slapped his puny face right before the crowd and
he didn't try it again.

“The evening finally passed, but I was miserable the whole time.

“After dinner I was informed by one of the girls that we should dress to go back to the fraternity
hall. I concluded that she was either blind or crazy, for I had on a dress; but I agreed that
she should dress, for I have never seen such a short dress. She couldn't have looked worse in a middy
blouse or bathing suit. My ma had made me a brand new serge dress for the occasion, so I wore
it Saturday night. ‘Saturday night!’ I'll always despise those two words.

“My Boy Friend came to the boarding house to get me about eight o'clock, and I met him at the
door, for I had been ready for over an hour. The boy actually handed me a visiting card and I
concluded that he was ready to be carried to Dix Hill, for I had known him all my life. He
then told me it was a date card, but I couldn't see how he got dates out of a plain
white card, and after many questions I found out it was a list of engagements that I would have while
there. The nerve of some people! I never before had walked four blocks at night with a boy. I wasn't
exactly afraid, but ma had taught me never to go out at night unless she or pa were along.

“On arriving at the house we were served some kind of pink lemonade, though it had in it grapes, apples
and all kinds of fancy fruit chopped fine. I was scared to drink it at first, but my Boy Friend
said it was good and so it was.

Davidsonian Publishes Feature Issue Dealing With Davidson R.O.T.C.

R. O. T. C. Officers to Assist in Make-up of Special Edition

TWELVE PAGE ISSUE

Paper Will be Presented to Army Officers Who Will Inspect Battalion

Next week's Davidsonian will be a 10 or 12 page feature edition with the R. O. T. C. unit of
Davidson occupying the central position. The local chapter of the Scabbard and Blade, military fraternity, will have charge of the
news and feature articles relating to the work of the military organization at this institution.The regular editorial staff will oversee
things in general, but the military fraternity will do most of the actual work. Feature stories and fiction relating to
military life here and to the R.O.T.C. summer camps will be given prominent places. Pictures of the various officers of
the local unit, and a write-up of their military careers will also feature in this issue.

The issue will be received here a day earlier than usual, namely, on Wednesday morning, and the papers will be
put in the post office before drill time if possible. Copies will be waiting for the reviewing officers who will
inspect the local unit preparatory to making a report to the War Department concerning the advisability of bestowing a distinguished
rating here. It is generally believed that the work of the Davidson unit has been of a sufficiently high grade
to warrant such a report. Captain Weems has already received a telegram of greetings and congratulations from Harford McWider, Assistant
Secretary of War, which will be run in the special issue. Captain Elkins will act as an editor of the
R.O.T.C. section.

It’s all right to play among ourselves, but when it comes to meets we'll be woefully lacking in the ability
to meet all kinds of playing, for we become used to the returns of the Davidson men and know how
to play them. Meets with a number of small teams would be in order, it seems to us.

“I think the boys liked me right well. I told them all about the farm, how to make potato pies
and other fancy cooking, and they stood around and grinned as if they thought I was wonderful. One fellow asked
me about the theaters in Charlotte, how many we had, etc. I told him I didn't think there was one
here, but I had read about the theaters in English Literature and I knew they must be wonderful.

“We sat and talked until half-past nine o'clock, and I began to get nervous for fear I wouldn't get back
to the boarding house by ten. Such a time as I had getting back to the boarding house. I tremble
when I think of it. Another impolite boy tried to hold my hand, and I told him exactly what I
thought of such imprudent conduct. He turned loose my hand, and with that, I ran all the way to the
boarding house. Instead of him turning and going back, he ran with me and I was furious by that time.
I never wanted to see home and worse. I hope the other girls were not treated as I was. Think
of a boy holding a girl's hand! I was determined I would leave the following morning. If my grandmother could
only know what the present generation of young people are like, she would turn over in her grave.

“I suppose I go to sleep by eleven o'clock, and I promised myself that I'd never stay up late again.
I awoke the next morning at six, but such lazy people I hope never to see again. They didn’t get
up until eight and nine o'clock. I got up about seven though, for I had to pack my gritchel, for
I was leaving.

“My Boy Friend came for me, and he was surprised to hear that I wanted to leave, but he said
he thought it advisable, for he was so afraid it would be raining on Monday and I didn’t bring an
umbrella. I wouldn't talk much, for I couldn’t forget how I had been treated that night by that flirt. I
promised myself never to breathe what happened that Saturday night, but here I've told you all about it. Anyway, I
wanted you to know how disgraceful it is to go to Davidson on fraternity house parties. If I were you
I would not go to Junior Speaking. Just a friend’s advice.”

Unusual Excellence Never Happens by Chance (Especially Three Times in a Row)

The fact that we have again been awarded the contract for the handsome 500-page yearbook of the United States Military
Academy evidences an organization and service that can work with you equally well. Our personnel are all college men who
know and appreciate your particular ideas and problems. We will appreciate an opportunity to work with you. A $25,000 Government
contract—a solid carload shipment of handsome books—placed with this company in the face of severe Northern competition.

QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

When the runners are bunched on the track—and suddenly Chuck, your own superman half-miler, spurts ahead on the finish and
wins—have a Camel!

Into the making of this one cigarette goes all of the ability of the world’s largest organization of expert tobacco
men. Nothing is too good for Camels. The choicest Turkish and domestic tobaccos. The most skillful blending. The most scientific
package. No other cigarette made is like Camels. No better cigarette can be made. Camels are the overwhelming choice of
experienced smokers.

© 1926

When the lithe half-milers are fighting for the lead. And your own dauntless champion suddenly soars ahead and wins—have a
Camel! For you'll never find another friend so attuned to your triumphs as Camel. Camels are made of the choicest
tobaccos grown—they never disappoint your taste. Camels annihilated cigaretty after-taste. Regardless of price, you'll never buy better tobaccos, or blending,
or flavor than you get in Camels. So this year when the old school’s men go through for victory after
victory—taste then the smoke that’s the choice of the world’s victorious. Have a Camel!

Our highest wish, if you do not yet know Camel quality, is that you try them. We invite you to
compare Camels with any cigarette made at any price.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
