THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1926.

Currie—“What size shoes do you wear, Harmon?”

Harmon—“Well, I wear a nine but a ten feels so good that I just get an eleven.”

Sweet Young Thing—“What do you intend to do in life?”

Peterson—“I think I was intended for the church.”

S. Y. T—(Viewing his stature)—“Then it must have been the steeple.”

Two negroes were trying to see which one could appear the harder. “You know,” said one, “I’se so hard that when I puts my hand in my pockets they arrests me fo’ carrying concealed weapons.”

“Pshaw negro, you know one thing,” replied the other, “I’se so hard that every time I eats an apple I perspires hard cider.”

Dick Flynn (to little boy playing on the lawn)—“Little man you ought to be studying your catechism instead of fooling away this pretty Sunday afternoon.”

L. B. P. O. T. L.—“I ain’t foolin’ it away; there’s a boy in the parlor spooning my sis, and he’s paying me twenty-five cents an hour to watch for pa and ma.”

THE FALL BRAEBURNS ARE READY!

The very latest production in the field of music, as announced by Mr. McConnell, our drummer boy, is a semi-classical number entitled “I shaved my mustache because the cook stopped making soup.”

Lieut. Webb was explaining the fundamentals of the five rests to his platoon. “No movement can be executed,” he explained, “except from the position of attention. For instance, if I should give the command ‘Forward March’ while you were at ease you would stand fast. Now can someone name another movement that cannot be executed?”

A hand went up from the rear rank and fresh Whittle triumphantly replied, “Sir, I don’t think I'd ever be able to do ‘At Ease’ in this uniform.”

“Give us some hot music,” said the young lady at the dance.

Fry—“How about ‘Burning of Rome’?”

Murchison—“Give me a match.”

Ogden—“Haven't got one.”

Murchison—“What do you light your cigarettes with then?”

Ogden—“Well, I usually carry one of my girl’s letters in my pocket.”

Dick Flynn (at the table)—“Did you rear these tomatoes in your garden Mrs. Thompson?”

A brewer in rare old Berlin
Fell into a vat to his chin;
He cried, “Haf no fear,
I'll hop out of der beer
By using the hops vat are in.”

Wharton—“Let’s spoon.”

She—“Uh huh.”

Wharton—“You don’t seem to know what I mean. See that couple in the car? They know how to enjoy themselves.”

She—“Big boy, if that’s spooning let’s shovel.”

Gwin—“My girl has sore heels; what would you suggest?”

Doctor—“Exercise, young man.”

Young Man—“But sir, I get plenty of exercise.”

Doctor—“What do you do?”

Young Man—“Well, I lay an extra brick each day.”

Motto for the Iota chapter of the “United anti-alien society,” “No foreigner shall alter our moral turpitude.”

Irate student who has called to see the college professor, the latter being at breakfast: “I don’t understand why I can’t see him now as well as later.”

We furnish Homes, Schools, and all Public Buildings

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ACTIVITIES SCHEDULE

9:00 Omega Phi Alpha
Student Council
Sigma Upsilon
(Sanction Honorary Fraternity Council)

Weeks:
September 20-25
October 4-9
October 18-22
November 1-6
November 15-20
November 29-Dec. 4
December 13-18
January 10-15
February 7-12
February 21-26
March 7-12
March 14-19
March 21-26
April 4-9
April 18-23
May 2-7
May 16-21

MONDAY | TUESDAY | WEDNESDAY | THURSDAY | FRIDAY
7:00 Glee Club | Glee Club | Glee Club
7:30 Court of Control | Biology Club | Alpha Phi Epsilon

On Weeks Alternate to Above:

MONDAY | TUESDAY | WEDNESDAY | THURSDAY | FRIDAY
7:00 Glee Club | Glee Club | Glee Club
7:30 Court of Control | Sigma Pi Sigma

9:00 Omicron Delta Kappa | Delta Pi Kappa
Scabbard and Blade | Gamma Sigma Epsilon