4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 21, 1926

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

EDITORIAL STAFF
CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH.................Editor
HAROLD D. BURKE........................Managing Editor
W. H. BRANCH............................Assistant Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON..........................Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. JONES..............................Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON............................Athletic Editor
R. B. KE.................................Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE.............................Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH.....................Associate Editor
GARNETT M. J. B. WEBB...................Associate Editor
F. K. BELL..............................Business Staff
BYE DISBURK............................Business Manager
W. HO LYNCH............................Assistant Business Manager
V. S. BROYLES...........................Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER.........................Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPOON.......................Subscription Manager
E. DOUGLASS.............................Assistant
JULIAN LAKF.............................Service Department
M. P. CRAWFORD..........................Assistant

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
T. T. JONES
V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres.
W. L. LINGLE
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas.
B. MARTIN
W. H. ALLISON
R. H. McILWAINE
H. M. AUSTIN
J. P. McKNIGHT
C. L. BRAGAW
H. L. SHELBY
D. M. CALHOUN
A. M. SPARROW
W. T. COVINGTON
W. T. DAVIS
W. S. GORDON
JOHN GWIN
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH
J. G. WHARTON
B. WILSON
C. WITHERS
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

THE GIRL OF TODAY

There is no doubt about it; womanhood is rapidly emerging from the chrysalis in which she was confined by the traditions and stupidity of past ages. We hear much of the new womanhood, of the modern girl, of the flapper and her consorts. It is not usual to find the editorial page of men’s college newspapers devoted to a discussion of the girls of today. But with most college men, the subject of girls is of second and even first importance. There is no gainsaying this fact—observe the waking hours of the collegian, and then it is apparent that not even football and examinations overshadow in his mind the subject of womanhood. Perhaps this is a good sign. At any rate it is inevitable. The life of practically every man is so entwined with that of some woman or women, that the cause of his devotion to this subject is easily understood.

Much has been written concerning the startling independence and the apparent decline in manners and morals of this younger generation. Against the girls of today has this fire particularly been aimed. The flapper and her prototypes have received most of this verbal and printed barrage. And the college boy has not escaped. To some he is the symbol of flaming youth and daring dare-deviltry beyond compare. But it is with the girls that we are concerned. And it is with some idea of justification of their status that we write. One gets tired of listening to a never-ending tirade of abuse heaped in their directions.

Since primeval times womanhood has been more or less thought of as subservient to man. Their place was decidedly on the back seat of the bandwagon. When a man became famous no credit was ever given to his wife. Women were too often the playthings of their lords, rather than intelligent, thinking companions and helpmates. Women were bound down by the conventions. Even today this has not entirely disappeared. We are glad, however, that they have asserted their independence—for it was sure to come sooner or later anyway.

The girl of 1926 is not radically different from the countless thousands of generations that have preceded our time. A misinformed person might describe the modern girl as a disgraceful looking object, wearing knee-length skirts, flimsy clothes, artificial complexions, hair like a man’s and various other external evidences that tend to prove she is a person of no brains. The change in women’s dress has come about only through our changing times. The advent of women into business where she is placed on the same level with men, calls for sensible clothes. Imagine a stenographer who has only a few minutes for lunch rushing about clad in poke bonnet, crinoline, and all the various other regalia of grandmother’s day. Times such as these demand changes in the old accepted order of things.

They have found out that bobbed hair is far easier to manage than the long tresses of which poets raved. Several hours a week, which were formerly spent in laborious curling, tying and combing of hair, is now saved by merely clipping one's locks. Surely the men do not begrudge them that. Cosmetics, if rightfully and judiciously used, enhance almost any girl’s natural appearance, and it is to her own advantage as well as everyone else’s to make the most of what beauty God has given her. Personally, we’d rather see a pair of blooming cheeks direct from a drug store than scrawny, pasty complexions that may be as pure as a well-known soap, but which lack any appeal. And speaking of short skirts, it is our belief that they are far more sensible than any other previous costumes. And fewer clothes allow the body to partake of more exercise, and to retain its natural youthful lines. Short skirts are hygienic and sensible. Certain prudes decry the fact that girls expose so much of their bodies and that they are losing the modesty which is womanhood’s chief charm. This is not true. True modesty is in the mind and has no definite deadline on the body. There has been too much foolishness of this sort in the years past. It was not discovered until the twentieth century that women had such things as ankles, and not until 1910 that they actually had two legs the same as men. False modesty or prudery is injurious to any people.

The girl of today is taking a more active part in the affairs of the world. She is entering all ranks of business and professions. She craves education the same as her brother. She is better informed and self-reliant. She does not swoon and call for the smelling salts at the sight of something disagreeable. In short, she is more attractive and lovable than ever. Here’s to the girls of today.

ATTEND VESPERS

The large attendance at “Y” last Sunday night was most gratifying. A popular and capable speaker such as Pat Crawford could not fail to draw a large crowd to hear his talk. But the spirit of the entire student body seems to be changing for the better, even with such a great speaker as Crawford, it was an unusually large crowd. It is hoped that this spirit will continue on through the rest of the year as many noted and interesting speakers have been obtained, men that will improve and lift up the spirit of Davidson. During the fall, attendance at the vespers dropped off, but with the interesting program of speakers that have been selected, the attendance at all the spring services should be much larger than formerly. With the acquisition of a place that the “Y” workers can truly call their own, and which will be arranged and kept for the entertainment of the students, interest in the Y. M. C. A. should increase. The work of the secretary has been most fruitful during the first part of this year and with more cooperation from the students, this should prove to be the most spiritually profitable year in the history of Davidson College.

Today is the first day of exams, so stick in there and fight ’em, so we will all be back a hundred per cent after the reports come in.

The exodus of the seniors has already begun. The goal of a grade of ninety has been achieved by many and they have been rewarded with a little vacation for their hard work.

Minor Chords
REALIZATION
Immeshed inwebs of true loves, untried trust
Which spinning forth from Amor’s wing it gleams
Of spongy carpets, drapes in silken streams,
Faint orchid bloom from urn of ivory crust
In hue made wan by pale light’s stenciled thrust.
Of Cytherie’s charm of form she seems,
Protruding pedestaled for Hymen’s themes.
Then Gothic doors; an ideal gone to dust
Strikes white steel sparks of realization, keen
To shatter faith, a ship flung out to sea,
A shadow cast, some bitter herbs to glean
In Stygian fields; sane reason prone to flee.
Chained on doubt’s fiery lake with galled spleen
To curse a happiness which was to be.
Philip C. Shook.

Check Monk maintains that Geology is the rockiest course on the hill.

Intercollegiate Notes

An annual “Garter Day” is held at California Tech. This year it was found that only five freshmen wear them. One ultra-collegiate was found wearing one garter.

The Student Council at North Carolina University has taken the same action as Davidson College in regard to passing bad checks. Through this efficient system, the number of bad checks passed by the students has greatly decreased.

The college and university enrollment in the United States totals 602,000 students. The number is 73 percent as many as have been graduated from American colleges in the last three hundred years.

A student at Stanford University, defying the high price of railroad transportation, picked up a hearse at a bargain and took seven of his friends to their homes in Los Angeles to spend the holidays.

A student at the University of Kansas recently refused an offer to join the Phi Beta Kappa. He said he didn't think high grades were a true indication of scholarship; he gave this as his excuse, saying that he didn’t approve of cramming for high grades.

A bad habit in which a great number of students indulge is the habit of gossiping. Gossiping is the root of all evil and should be a low standard in the eyes of all those who have sufficient intelligence. The habit of gossip is sometimes from carelessness, but nevertheless, it conveys great effects. There is a civil law now which provides a fine for libel, and gossip is as bad in school as it is elsewhere—Queens Blues.

The Carolina Playmakers are on an extended tour presenting three plays at each place. The plays are “Quare Medicine,” “Fixin’s,” and “Gains and Gains, Jr.”

The Seniors at N. C. State wanting a distinctive costume on the campus have chosen to wear canes and derbies. The cane, if heavy enough, ought to be useful in keeping off admirers of the derbies.

All dances at the University of North Carolina have been suspended until after the spring holidays. This action was taken on account of the unsatisfactory conduct at the Thanksgiving dances.

DO YOU CRAVE COMPANIONSHIP?
Does the presence of a member of the fair sex cause your CARDIACAL organ to PALPITATE? Can you hold your own on the divan, or even in a crowd? Can you discuss intelligently the color of Red Grange’s eyes, or the Einstein theory? Do you know the latest and the earliest things in women's dress? Can you tell a good egg from a BAD one? If NOT—Read our book on SUCCESS.

Howard ULIKE AHOTTUN, prominent Florida real estate man and bootlegger, writes: “I have read practically all of your book except the ads and would not take a Miami lot for it. Before learning how to be a SUCCESS, I was afraid to go out with the girls, and often had to walk back from rides. But due to your never-to-be-praised-enough book, I captivated a fair damsel with red hair and buck teeth, and am now the blushing father of triplets. My wife was a telephone operator. I make lots of jack by selling gills of liquor and hills of real estate. I urgently urge all men who desire to become famous as I have done, to step right up and get a copy of your book. You know me, Al.”

D. MAC AUSTIN’S LATEST SAYING
Do not attempt to make an exhaustive estimation as to the population of your juvenile poultry until the process of incubation has thoroughly materialized.

Said a sheik in Wilmington Del.
“Fate's unkind to our sex, I’m well
For the girls wear men’s clothes
X. Y. Z’s and chapeaux,
But what feminine duds can a fel?”

Anne Nichol’s latest song hit: Yessir, that’s my Abie.

Logan Lovelace stuck the end of a joke book in his little brother, Hiram’s eye. Little Hiram ran to his father and told him, “Look here, young man,” said Mr. Lovelace, “Don't you poke fun at your little brother.”

Most flappers diet only for conversational purposes.

Ivory used to be used in the making of statues. Now they use it in the making of statutes.

Room—“Will this hair tonic really grow hair?”
Mate—“Will it! Why Pop spilt some on the oilcloth one night, and the next morning it was a rug.”

NO CHARGES

I
Liquid pools of amber:
Star-lit skies and moonshine.
Vain cruel and inconvenient world,
Cobblestone streets and oak trees.
Oh! Heck! Ye gods. Ah-h-h-h! Darn,
Purple sizzling drunken goldfish—
Cock-eyed!

II
Honeysuckle, hotcakes, hysteria—
Sparkling opaqueness, alliteration.
Trimmed wings of jailbirds.
Violets—hysteria!
Millions of dollars and sloppy mud—
Sickening, slimy tobacco juice.
No spitting on the rugs;
Stop! Go! Don’t park here.
Well, well, well, well.

III
Silken shimmering unmentionables
Oh, deliver me, incantatory silhouettes.
Superannuated sunfish.
Grits and gravy
Sickening mounds of beans.
From the gutter to Paradise—
Raven black hair; eyes, eyes!
Entrancing, charms, je ne sais quoi!
Love you: love me? Yes. Please.

Who says I can’t write free verse?

Since we are getting literary, take a look at this little masterpiece that was unearthed in the ruins of an old hosiery mill about three hundred miles from London. Some critics and students have pronounced it the work of Chaucer, but there are others who are not so sure about it. Judge for yourself.

YE KNOCKOUT OF YE KNOCKOUT
A comely maide was Genevieve and prettilie
Sate she in ye cosy-corner under ye bower
Of wandering hysteria, near to ye publick path.
She sate and read ye late edition of ye Noble “Bang-Bang.”
Now chaunce had Passing bye should come ye lad yclept Bartholomew, eldest sone of ye worthie Lord Woofingtonn de PIP-pip.
This lad Bartholomew, was knowne through
Ye entyre countie as ye hotte knockout
In winning hearts of ye ladies faire.
So up praunced he and by ye pretty maide
Did strutte, and flourish ye handkerchief
Of silk, laden with ye cologne de Hoyt.
With a twirle of ye rattan cane, and ye blond
Mustache, quothe he, “Ah there, Arabella,
Heigh, ho!”
“Sir!” retaliated she, “’tis not my name, and
You've never had ye knock down to me!”
Ye sone of ye duke put on a wicked sneer.
“Forsoothe! gadcooks! egad Ye highe hatte
Will not fit this noble head o’ mine!
You are but the daughter of ye stableman;
And, shouldst I say, will date with me! So.”
Ye hard lad grabbed ye jane in sinewy arms
Making ye attempt to kiss ye rose-bud lips.
“Heh, heh!” laughed he, “I have you now.”
chug! chug! phut! phut! phut! bang!
“Not so!” cried young Wilberforce, ye local spede cop.
“Unhand that dame, or by ye ingrown toenail
Of Mohamet, I'll sock you one with
Ye monkeye wrench!”
“Begone, swine of a Cop. begone!” sez he.
“SOCK!” replied ye Monkeye wrench, making ye contact with Bartholomew.
“—eight, nine, ten, ye knockout!
Oh! my Wilberforce, you've saved me, my love!”
Smacke. (Slow Curtain).

Advertisement in Davidson:
SHEET MUSIC OLDEST IN THE STATE

Author—“Where is that sonnet that I wrote. I believe little Dorothy has thrown it in the fire.”
Wife—“Don't be silly, Fred, you know she can’t read.”

Ad in Charlotte Observer:
“B. V. please come home to papa—D.”

Harold Burke called his rooster Robinson because he crew so.

South Carolina motto for the new year is “Bigger and Better Butter and Egg Men.”

IN FLORIDA
It’s always fair weather when real estate men get together.
—KABLE.