THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

Gastonia is a young city offering great opportunities to young men.

GASTONIA
The Combed Yarn Manufacturing Center of the South
The capital of Gaston, one of the most progressive of North Carolina’s hundred counties. Davidson graduates are invited to consider Gastonia when choosing their future homes. The CHAMBER OF COMMERCE will be glad to furnish detailed information.

TENNIS TEAM OF 1915
Davidson Had State Championship Team

In the spring of 1915, Davidson had a tennis team that ranked as one of the highest in the southeast, as well as in the state. The two members in the picture both played an excellent game, and the manager, on the right, was one of the most popular men on the campus at that time.

On the left is the Rev. Norman Johnson, now the pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Blacksburg, Va. He graduated from Davidson in 1915 and went to teach in Fountain, N.C. After a year there, he attended the Union Theological Seminary and upon his graduation, was given the pastorate in Blacksburg, which he now holds.

In the center is J. R. Woods, now a missionary stationed at Chiang Kiang, China. He graduated with the class of 1918 and taught at the McCallie School in Chattanooga, Tenn., for two years, later attending the Seminary in Richmond.

On the right is J. P. Williams, a graduate of the class of 1916. While a student here, "Shorty" was president of his Sophomore class, president of the student body, manager of the tennis team, editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian, a member of the “Y” cabinet, and president of the Eumanean Literary Society. After Mr. Williams left here, he became registrar of the University of New Mexico, later a teacher in Montreat, N.C., and president of Greenbrier Military School. He came to Davidson as the “Y” secretary for 1923-25, and then accepted a position as registrar at the University of New York Business College. He is to return to Davidson this coming fall as an instructor in business administration.

CAMPUS LEADERS GET (Continued from page 1)

Ga., has made a conspicuous record as major of the R.O.T.C. battalion. In addition to this high position, he has gained prominence as a basketball star, having been the mainstay of his class team for four years and making his varsity letter this season. He is a member and one of the organizers of the Honorary Fraternity Council. On the Court of Control for two years, he has been one of the two representatives of his class. He is affiliated with the Scabbard and Blade and Sigma Pi Sigma honorary groups and is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity.

Harry Lee Vance, of Huntersville, N.C., is probably the premier athlete of the Wildcat tribe. As an all-state guard on the famous Wildcat eleven for two years, and the star slugger on the baseball nine, he has gained wide notoriety. He is also a varsity wrestler. His prowess as an athletic star was signally recognized by the student body when they made him president of the athletic association last fall and also awarded him the Norris Trophy this spring.

Joseph M. Garrison, of Covington, Ga., has just finished a highly successful career as varsity basketball manager. Since his first year, he has been active in campus activities. He was a Junior-Senior debater and is now President of the Panhellenic Society. He has given the college its best season of movies for several years. He is a member of the “Y” cabinet and has served for two years on the business staff of the “Davidsonian.” Among his other activities have been those incumbent upon his place on the “Y” Board of Control.

The other eight men extended invitations are members of the Junior class. James F. Pinkney, of Canyon City, Colo., is the recently elected President of the Student Body for the coming year. This is the highest honor at the disposal of the students. Pinkney has long since gained prominence by his stellar playing as end on the football team where he received all-state mention. He has served as president of the Junior Class this year and also as vice-president of both the Student Body and Athletic Association. Pinkney, as a leading member of the local chapter of Beta Theta Pi, is among the social leaders on the Hill.

L. D. (Don) Wharton, Jr., of Smithfield, N.C., has steadily mounted the ladder of college fame until today he is probably a leader in more phases of campus life than any member of his class. He has distinguished himself by winning a place on the literary staff of every publication in school: “Davidsonian,” Magazine, Annual, Sanity Rare, and the “Y” handbook. This is a distinction which has been held by only a few students in the history of the college. He is one of the ablest writers and was recently elected to the coveted editorship of “Quips and Cranks” and was runner-up in The “Davidsonian.” Wharton, as a leader in forensic circles, was placed on two intercollegiate debating teams, is an outstanding Metrophilian, and will be president of the Forensic Council for the coming year. His prominence in other circles is demonstrated by his election to Sigma Upsilon, Alpha Phi Epsilon, Omega Phi Alpha, and Delta Pi Kappa, respectively prominent literary, forensic, philosophy, and journalistic fraternities. He is the Junior representative on the Publications Board. Wharton is a member of the Delta Theta Chi Fraternity.

Joseph H. McConnell, of Davidson, N.C., was elected last week to the distinguished position as President of the rising Senior class. He is one of the heroes of the Wildcat football machine, receiving widemention as all-state center. He has also been on the basketball squad for two years in addition to holding the place as stellar pinch hitter on the baseball nine. McConnell is just completing a term as vice-president of his class. He is ranked among the best chemistry scholars in his class. He is the Pan-Hellenic representative of the Kappa Alpha fraternity.

W. Harllee Branch, of Atlanta, Ga., was conspicuously honored by his recent election to the editorship of the “Davidsonian.” He won a place among the journalistic elite early in his career and is just completing a year as Managing Editor of the above publication, the highest journalistic position open to a Junior. He is also editor of “Sanity Rare.” Branch has gained recognition as an orator of power and was chosen on the Sewanee debating team along with Wharton. Branch proved himself quite versatile, serving as assistant manager of basketball and also as chairman of the important Junior Speaking Committee. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon and Delta Pi Kappa, and of the local chapter of the Beta Theta Pi Social Fraternity.

W. A. (Bill) Christian, of Mobile, Ala., gained early prominence when he was elected as the first executive of his class. He was only recently made President of the Y. M. C. A. in which organization he is now secretary. He, too, is an intercollegiate debater (alternate) and a member of the Alpha Phi Epsilon. Christian has served continuously on the Student Council and was honored his sophomore year by his election to the secretaryship of the Athletic Association. He is also secretary of the I. R. Club, and is a leading Eumanean and the first scholar of the Junior class. He is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity.

W. T. (Bill) Covington, of Raeford, N. C., since his election to the presidency of his class in his sophomore year has been recognized as one of the foremost men of the student body. He is just giving up the vice-presidency of both the Y. M. C. A. and the Student Body, the two highest positions in each of the organizations for which a Junior was eligible. He is one of the “Davidsonian” and is a leading Metrophilian. He was a close runner-up in both the “Y” and Senior class presidency races and was also second man in the race for the presidency of the Student Body. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, Omega Phi Alpha, Student Council, Reporters’ Club and other organizations. He is affiliated with the local chapter of the Sigma Alpha Phi Epsilon Fraternity.

Holcombe M. Austin, of Laredo, Texas, led the Junior class honor roll by a margin of more than one point this year. He has gained recognition from the first as a premier scholar. His work for the “Davidsonian” is easily comparable with that of any member of the Reporters’ Club, which organization elected him to membership his freshman year. He received the signal distinction of election to the presidency of the Spanish Club his sophomore year and was the first Junior to win an invitation from Omega Phi Alpha, the Philosophy Fraternity. Sigma Upsilon and the T. R. Club recently elected him also. He is a member of the Dramatic Club and manager of varsity tennis. He is now well advanced towards the finals in the tennis elimination tournament which is being held in order to determine the tennis varsity for this year.

Active student members of Omicron Delta Kappa are Hollingsworth, Shaw, Parker, Deck, C. F. Smith, Anderson, Monk, Laird, Wilson, Hendrix, Graves, and Gracey. The cron son, Sappenfield, Regen, An elaborate banquet and public initiation ceremony will be held on Monday night, April 26th.

LYNN McLAIN WINS (Continued from page 1) squad and of the Kappa Alpha fraternity. Arbuckle is a member of the Beaver Club and the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. The remainder of the elections will be held some time after the holidays. The present officers of this class are W. O. Nesbitt, president; H. M. Arrowood, vice-president; and L. B. McClain, secretary and treasurer.

Biology Department Has Secured New Professor

Prof. Scott C. Lyon, formerly a professor of biology in Southwestern University, at Clarksville, Tenn., will be a member of the Davidson faculty next year. Professor Lyon is now taking graduate work at the University of Chicago. He is very well and very favorably known in the Southern Presbyterian Church. He was here for a few days in the fall, and made a very favorable impression on all those who met him. He is to take most of the general biology work and also one or two classes in zoology. Professor Lyon has been for several years connected with the bureau of entomology, and he will be working with them this summer on the tobacco worm. Professor Lyon will take Dr. Porter's place next year, and Dr. Porter will be shifted to the chair of Geology, at his own request.

The Department of Biology has been steadily growing for the last few years, both in size and in quality. Professor Davis, who graduated from Davidson in the class of ’23, is assistant professor of Biology and has charge of most of the laboratory work. The authorities are planning to make several changes in the courses also. It is understood that the Physiology and Hygiene which is being taught this year, will be made Biology I next year, and that several other shifts of similar nature will be made. With this reorganization of the courses, and the change of professors, both the Department of Biology and the Department of Geology will be improved. The Science Department has been improving steadily lately and this will be another step in that direction.

Our Appreciation of Your Patronage Sticks in Every Package

J. L. Adams Drug Store “WHERE QUALITY COUNTS” OPPOSITE THE POST OFFICE AND JUST AS RELIABLE GASTONIA, N. C.

See our new line of Spring Linen and Seersucker Suits displayed here

APRIL 12 STAR DIRECT TAILORS ZIMMERMAN & RAGAN, Representatives