8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1926

THE OFFICERS AND THE RANGE

Reasons For Having Unit

In the above group of pictures are seen faces and scenes with which every Davidson student is familiar. In the
top picture is seen the corps of officers now stationed at Davidson College by the War Department to instruct students
in military and to have charge of the R. O. T. C. department in general. At the extreme left of
the picture is Capt. Geo. H. Weems, D. O. L., who is now professor of Military Science and Tactics and
commandant at Davidson. This is the third year that Captain Weems has been stationed here and he has proved his
ability in more ways than one. He has been coach of the Davidson varsity wrestling team for the three years
he has been here and has succeeded in turning out three excellent teams. The others in the top group are
Capt. R. F. Daugherity, Capt. John E. Elkins, and Lieutenant Beckett. This is the second year that Captain Daugherity has
been here, having come here from Fort Benning, Ga. Captain Elkins and Lieutenant Beckett are serving their first year here,
Captain Elkins having been transferred from Fort Benning, Ga., and Lieutenant Beckett coming direct from service in the Philippines.

The middle picture is a scene on the rifle range, constructed by the class of '25, about a mile from
the campus. Every freshman must fire on this range and make a certain score before he is permitted to take
sophomore R. O. T. C. Previous to this he has been given instruction on a small gallery range in the
gym. In this way, every man at Davidson is assured excellent instruction and practice both with the gallery rifle and
the regulation Springfield rifle.

The lower picture is a group of the students now taking an advanced course in military. This is restricted to
juniors and seniors, since two years’ previous work in collegiate military work is required. But this is not the only
restriction, since there is much inducement to take this course and every year the list of applicants grows larger. A
salary is paid these men by the War Department and they are given the privilege of attending summer camp at
any of the infantry schools of R. O. T. C. during the summer. For these reasons only those students who
have shown special interest and ability along military lines are permitted to take this course.

Phone 3486
221 West Trade Street

THE PRINCESS CAFE
FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN
The Up-to-date and Sanitary Place to Eat
Open Day and Night
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Letter Heads
Envelopes
Programs

Send them to Brady at Statesville and they will be printed right.

Tickets

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Prompt attention to orders for
fine Ice Cream at Davidson

Expounded

R. O. T. C. Furnishes Military Protection and Added Physical Training

Why do we have the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps? Recently there has been much agitation against it, but before we
condemn it let us examine the purpose behind it and see if that purpose is a worthy one. Let us
consider facts and logical reasoning rather than prejudices or sentiment. The basic idea behind any military training is to prepare
for military protection. Do we grant that such protection is needed? There are some who say that it is unnecessary
because in the future we can avoid all wars if we so desire, but if we clearly and impartially consider
the teachings of history and the conditions that prevail in the world today we must admit that such a view
is far too optimistic and is founded on neither facts nor sound reasoning. We hope and pray for peace, but
at the same time we must face the stern facts of the case. When we can abolish our police forces,
our jails, and the locks and bars of our stores and banks, then we can say we no longer need
military protection, but not until then.

Since we must have military protection and since the people of the United States have always opposed a large standing
army, the only alternative is to have a civilian reserve. Our regular army today is absurdly small for the protection
of such a country as this, and our safety in any emergency must rest in the reserve. It is the
purpose of the R. O. T. C. to provide officers for that reserve.

But it is asked, whyIs it necessary to train these officers in peacetime? Simply because it is impossible to transform
a civilian into an efficient officer in a few weeks or months when an emergency is upon us. And just
here it may be said that there is nothing more costly than an inexperienced and inefficient officer leading troops into
combat. In practically every other realm of human activity, the learner may learn by trial and error, but here he
is dealing with human lives, and one false move may destroy him and his entire command. Here the cost of
mistakes is reckoned in terms of human lives. There is no better insurance for the lives of the coming generation
than an adequate supply of well-trained Reserve Officers. There are many other benefits of military training, but space will allow
mention of only two more—the physical and mental benefits to the individual. Everyone can appreciate the value of regular, systematic
exercise, the improved carriage of the body, and the habits of discipline and subjection to authority. Later the individual is
given the control of other men and gains valuable experience in the handling of men, in thinking quickly and accurately,
and in developing qualities of leadership. This experience is of the kind very valuable in the outside world and can
be acquired nowhere else in college so well or so readily as in the R.O.T.C.

But the great objection to military training is that it creates a military spirit and encourages war. Certainly, anyone who
has taken a thorough course of military training knows that that is not true, for a detailed study of the
science of war reveals it in all of its terror and awfulness. The man who knows war in all its
phases dreads it more than the man who has only a superficial knowledge of the actual conditions attending modern warfare.
Also, those who oppose a military policy are inconsistent. If they are sure that in the future all wars can
be prevented, why not abolish our army and navy entirely? No one who is reasonable is willing to do that,
for when we face the prospect of being without protection, we realize how much danger there is of war. Since
we are to have protection, then, let us provide something fairly adequate, and not a system that will prove a
death trap for those in it when an emergency arrives. The R.O.T.C. is doing a great work in this.

“Kelso Regen told me that I was the only girl he had ever loved.”
“When did he tell you that?”
“Monday night.”
“Well, he sure did lie to me on Tuesday.”

TALMADGE TURNS TO COMEDY

Star of Romantic Roles is Madcap in Film Version of Play Hit “Kiki”

Norma Talmadge, usually associated with dignified, romantic roles, has turned comedienne in her latest First National picture, “Kiki,” which comes
to the Imperial Theatre on Monday. This is a picturization of the famous Belasco stage hit.

Miss Talmadge enacts the role of the devil-may-care waif who wants a taste of life—and gets it with a vengeance.
As a laugh provoker, “Kiki” is said to be in a class by itself in its appeal to all classes,
old and young. The situations are strictly of the 1921 vintage—that is, up to the minute. The lovely Norma's new
leading man is Ronald Colman, who, as a wealthy Paris theatre manager, takes into his heart, but discovers he has
befriended a human paradox.

Perfect Service. Suits Cleaned, Pressed
“JOBS WELL DONE”
Mayhew Dry Cleaning Co.
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.
Davidson, N.C.
Mooresville, N.C.

For the latest magazines
For the best smokes
For the most refreshing drinks
For toilet articles of the highest quality
WALTER CULBRETH
Next to Vance Hotel
Statesville, N.C.

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Special menu and special music! That’s what we are planning for all those here with their guests for “Speaking.” The
“Davidsonians” will be here with plenty of “pep.”
MANAGERS
E. K. REGEN
E. F. BOHANNON
H. L. SHAW, Jr.

BASEBALL AND TRACK SEASON IS HERE
We have a full line of athletic supplies. Come down and get yours now.
STUDENT’S STORE
“It’s Yours---Why Not Patronize”
