4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an
unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH................. Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE.......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF:
W. H. BRANCH............................. Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON.................. Assistant Managing Editor
F. K. BELL....................... Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON............................ Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER........................... Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE............................ Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH................. Associate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN.................. Humorous Editor
J. WEBB................................. Alumni Editor
........................................ Exchange Editor

Business Staff:
........................................ Business Manager
................................ Assistant Business Manager
................................ Assistant Business Manager
........................................ Circulation
................................ Subscription Manager

Reporters’ Club:
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
T. T. JONES
V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres.
W. L. LINGLE
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas.
B. MARTIN
W. H. ALLISON
R. H. McILWAINE
H. M. AUSTIN
J. P. McKNIGHT
C. L. BRAGAW
A. M. SPARROW
D. M. CALHOUN
J. G. WHARTON
W. T. COVINGTON
R. WILSON
W. T. WITHERS
W. S. GORDON
W. S. WOODS
JOHN GWIN
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH

EDITORIAL

Sweet memories—all that’s left of Junior Week.

SANITY RARE, using the Ivory Soap motto as its own, held its head up proudly during the holidays. Congrats.

Four college contests won inside of a week is some little record for the Red and Black tribe to hang
inside its wigwam.

Rumor has it that the Prince of Wales is getting bald. Another horse on him. Pretty soon there’ll be no
hair apparent on the heir apparent.

We haven’t named the new Davidson playhouse yet but we have some suggestions up our shirt sleeves. Suffice to say
that the place is plenty dark to suit any taste and they say the pictures will be good.

There remains to us only six weeks more of time in which to uncover hidden facts contained in textbooks. That
time may be profitably spent or it may be wasted in idle dreaming. What will be your case?

The gift of the handsome Victrola to the Y. M. C. A. reception hall by the fraternities on the hill
is one that merits the commendation of everyone connected with Davidson College. This musical instrument fills a much-needed want and
it is appreciated by all. It helped out greatly during the holidays.

Have you secured a job for the coming summer? Before you realize it, summer will be here with its opportunity
to improve your health and pocketbook at one and the same time. A little anxious dickering with a job now
will save many anxious minutes about the first of June.

The recent improvements made on the campus by the college authorities should cause every fellow here to be careful lest
he mar the natural beauty of it. A few careless ones will do more to hurt the looks than an
army of caretakers can remedy. Watch your stray papers and let the grass be.

The special R. O. T. C. edition to be put out next week will be one to be proud of.
The Scabbard and Blade fraternity will take over the reins for a week and they will have charge of all
the special features and news articles relating to military affairs here. It will be distributed Wednesday afternoon.

The golf links, due to careful caretaking supervision, are rapidly recovering from the ravages brought about by the drought of
last summer. By next fall all will be hotsy-totsy for golf bugs.

WHAT WE STAND FOR

The sport comment written by Jake Wade for the Charlotte Observer, which is reprinted in another section of this paper,
is worth the time of anyone to read. It tells in a few words the reason why Davidson ideals have
been high in the past and why they are high today.

Three athletes from a championship team of Gastonia have announced their intention of coming to Davidson this next term. And
they made this decision in spite of the fact that there were many alluring advantages offered them at other institutions
where the going would have been easier perhaps. Certainly, there would have been some remuneration directly or indirectly. There would
have been a consideration of some kind, money or whatnot. But in coming to Davidson, they know that they will
never receive a red cent for any services on the athletic field, no matter how hard they may sweat and
toil. Their path here will be no more a path of roses than those of the fellows less favored with
the innate ability to excel in feats of skill and strength. If it falls to their lot to work for
their education, in the end they will recall with pleasure that they chose to secure their education by their own
efforts and not through pull, nor favor.

These young men said that one thing that influenced them was the spirit displayed by Davidson teams. We hope that
they will quickly imbibe this spirit when they enter our gates for without it one who comes here and remains
cannot be called a true Davidson man. If they are shown favor by having several varieties of pretty, be-pearled pins
offered them, then congratulations, and may they have the sense to realize what such emblems mean and what they do
not. We welcome such men as these into our college.

AFTER JUNIOR WEEK

Observing the scarcity of students on the campus during the past Junior Speaking, it occurred to us that such an
event as this deserves more recognition than it receives. Only about a fifth of the student body remained on the
hill to join in the festivities. Those who were absent can appreciate what they missed by asking anyone who stayed
here.

We believe that a better plan would be to arrange such a program of entertainment sometime during the spring when
all the students would be on the campus. Then, either have the spring holidays at the regular time, or cut
down on the time a day or two if necessary. Three days, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday would be sufficient time
in which to put on an intensive program of entertainment. Having the Junior Speaking, Stunt Night, Glee Club performance, and
the other diversions in this time would provide such an attractive program that none would want to be absent a
single minute lest he miss a single bit of it.

Everyone acknowledges that the oratorical program is sadly in need of repair. At the speaking in Shearer Hall last Thursday
evening, there was only a handful of people. By having this at a time when all the boys would be
here, there would be more incentive for extensive preparation.

Davidson students need more social life here on the campus and they should not have to go to dances in
Charlotte, Statesville, and other places in order to satisfy a perfectly normal craving for social companionship. There should be enough
formal and semi-formal occasions here that it would be a matter of course for one to attend such. When a
man leaves Davidson he should know the rudiments of the etiquette of the banquet hall, a reception, or any social
occasion. No matter what may be his aptitude for learning facts and figures, unless he is able to make a
creditable appearance before any group of people, he will not have an education nor will his cultural qualities be of
such a nature as to impart a sense of ease and satisfaction within him.

WORLD AFFAIRS

One cannot help but wonder if the front pages of newspapers that come to Davidson are ever used except when
thereis a debate on hand. That the most momentous problems of the day are skipped over for a sport item
is general knowledge. And, general information concerning topics that everyone should have a nodding acquaintance with, is pitifully lacking here.
For instance, at least thirty fellows asked this writer what was a marionette before the show of that nature given
in Shearer Hall the other night. Some of them had no idea whether such a thing was an animal or
not. We owe it to ourselves to keep at least moderately posted on vital happenings that concern us. News items
that the papers chronicle have their place in our lives, although the connection may seem far-fetched at times. The old-time
gift of knowing everything that happens is confined to a very few today. The more a man reads the more
he learns. He may forget most of what he gathers, but some will stick to him and will prove of
invaluable aid later on in life.

Open Forum

ABOVE REPROACH

The Davidson athletic authorities were severely criticized in last week's Open Forum for what the writer of the protest termed
“the policy of assigning junior managers in one sport to junior managership in another sport after their failure to be
elected to the senior managership in their respective sport.” It would be well to look clearly into the facts of
the case before censuring the Davidson coaches and officials for their actions. When such facts are examined the action of
those criticized will be above reproach.

At the opening of the school in September the Davidson coaches were faced with this situation: there was one vacancy
in the junior basketball managership and one vacancy in the junior track managership. These two vacancies came as the result
of Mr. Sparrow and Mr. Faucette’s failure to return to Davidson. Several months before the football managership election Coach Younger
stated that he would fill these vacancies with the two men who were defeated in the race for the football
managership. Such action was very natural when it is considered that naturally Coach Younger would wish to fill all vacancies
with the best men available and when it is further considered that naturally men who had worked three years along
similar lines would be the best men available. So it is evident that no one could criticize Coach Younger for
filling a vacancy with the best man available for that vacancy. Whether the selection of the senior manager in any
sport can be criticized is a matter of individual opinion. There is no such policy as the article in question
would lead one to think. There never has been one example of the assignment of a defeated junior to another
sport except to fill a vacancy in that sport. If such a “policy” as suggested existed the authorities might well
be criticized. As the facts stand their actions have been just to all parties concerned.

DON WHARTON.

HAIL THE NEW CHIEF!

Harllee Branch, Jr., who has been managing editor of The Davidsonian for the past year was elected editor-in-chief for the
coming school year. Harllee has been a loyal worker on this paper for the past three years and has thus
gained much in practical experience. We feel sure that he will continue to run the paper for the best interest
of the student body and the college, as has been the endeavor of the present staff. With him, there is
a group of capable and experienced men who will no doubt keep the standard of The Davidsonian high for time
to come.

From the mass of letters that have come back this way after Junior Speaking it seems that many suits have
been pressed, many love affairs promulgated, affaires de cour inaugurated, and many a lonesome Hannah hankering for her Henry.

An error made to be cheerfully corrected. Last week’s paper carried a story about “Shorty” Williams, former “Y” secretary here,
and it mentioned the fact that he had one son. The truth of the whole matter is that the son
is not a son at all but a daughter.

Minor Chords

LIFE

A strangling cry for breath,
Fast passing youth without a care,
Conventional kisses three,
One passionate and free,
Then work that lags and thorns that tear,
A strangling cry and death.

TO

Withered, curling leaves,
Merciless thorns—
All that is left,
Left of Life's sweetest rose.
You say the fault was mine?
Perhaps, perhaps.
Who knows but God?
Yet your reproach
Is but another thorn.
It does not bring the rose
To me again.

W.C.O.

JUNIOR SPEAKING

Holidays may come,
And they may go,
But classes go on
Forever.

There were only one hundred and twenty-five fair damsels on the Hill last week for Junior Speaking, but that doesn’t
mean that the old campus wasn’t gayer than ever. We aren’t calling any names, but one man in the Junior
class claims the record for Davidson students. He had twenty dates in three days. Anyone who wishes to challenge this
record will kindly communicate with the Prison Reform Editor of this organ.

He held her hand,
And kissed her lips;
They matched for his clothes
With poker chips.

Mr. Henderson, the jeweler, reports that untold numbers of pennants and kodak films were disposed of during the holidays. The
student body will soon be called to raise a fund to defray expenses incurred by re-sodding the territory around the
chinaberry tree. The golf course had more wear and tear last week than it has experienced since the Civil War.
Girls just naturally can’t play golf. We maintain that they would make excellent scene-shifters.

Sad the song of Bellamy-Jane;
She had a date and missed her train.

The Davidsonian lacked so much copy this week that we decided to name it the “Great Open Spaces” Number.

OVERHEARD AT THE BASEBALL GAME
(Couple entering at sixth inning)
Fair Visitor—“What’s the score?”
Charlie Trabue—“Nothing to nothing.”
F.V.—“Oooh, we haven't missed a thing, have we?”

Sanity lived up to its name in places, but we claim that the insanity was pretty rare in others. One
of the beautiful visitors on the Hill pulled so many wheezes during her stay here that we tried to sign
her up for the Keyhole, but she declined the offer. Speaking of wheezes, did you ever hear a mule try
to bray while it had distemper?

We had a date with one of the visitors Sunday afternoon, and in our little jaunt around the campus asked
her if she would like to see the library. She said that she would, but we later learned that we
were only the fourth party to show her that point of interest. Moral: There are more ways to drown a
catfish than feeding it bottled-in-bond Scotch-Rye.

Back to the time my memory whirls,—
To Junior Speaking and pretty girls.

“I just adore fencing,” cooed a cute co-ed from Converse, and Fred Smith asked her if she had rather see
a barbed wire or a board fence.

How’s this for a combination: Holidays—warm weather—pretty girls—lots of entertainments—everybody happy—springtime—and a full moon? Just use your imagination, kiddo.

The wildcat saw more fair visitors during the holidays than an up-to-date women’s wear shoppe dreams of in the last
two weeks before Easter.

A BUM RUNNER

The biggest bum prize for Junior Speaking goes to Kenneth Bell, who bummed to Birmingham and back, and had over
two days to spend in the Alabama city. He heard a victrola playing, “I’m Alabama Bound” last Thursday, and just
couldn’t keep his dogs from pointing south.

As yet no one has offered to purchase the nice clean typewriter that was used in making the copy for
Sanity Rare. Speak up. It will be fine to write your Sunday School lessons on.

SCENE IN SKIT’S FILLING STATION

Jack Causey, to visitor—“I want orange in my dope; what'll you have in yours?”
