THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

HARLEE R. BRANCH Jr. .......... Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES ............ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. LINGLE .................... Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN ........ Assistant Managing Editor
ROB GRAHAM ................. Athletic Editor
RUFORD WEBB .............. Associate Editor
F. S. HUNTER ................. Associate Editor
D. M. CALHOUN ............. Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY ................. Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN .............. Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON ............ Assignment Editor
T. JONES .................... Feature Editor
T. JONES .................. Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF
DOUGLASS B. L. ........ Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD ........ Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE ............ Assistant Business Manager
J. A. McALPINE .......... Subscription Manager
W. L. ALBRIGHT .......... Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY .......... Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
A. N. BROWN
R. H. McILWAINE
J. L. ELY
J. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH
A. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD
B. WILSON
J. R. WEAVER
B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

All roads will lead to Lynchburg Saturday, when the undefeated Wildcats make their debut in the Old Dominion State against
V. M. I. Too bad, Davidson students will not be permitted to follow their team into the backyard of the
V. M. I. Cadets, there to continue their victorious march.

Charlotte sport writers declare that poor headwork lost the Wake Forest tilt for the Wildcats last Saturday; and contend that
Davidson should have won the contest 7-3. Be that as it may, they certainly can’t criticize the good toe-work of
Dick Grey, which gave us a deserved tie.

A CALL TO ARMS

Following the publication in Chicago of Dr. Wm. McAndrews’ annual school survey for 1926, an effort is being made in
the public schools of that great city to emphasize the social, civic, and political service due from the school children.
In line with this movement, it is observed that a strong sense of civic pride is gradually predominating over the
scholarly, cultural, ornamental and personal ends of the schools, with the result that Chicago school children are banding themselves together
for community work, such as cleaning up yards and vacant lots, painting houses and outbuildings, planting flowers, shrubs and trees,
destroying breeding places for insects, and in making general civic improvements. It is estimated that Chicago school girls and boys
performed 3,242,672 such services in 1926.

The effort of the Chicago school authorities to widen the scope of such work outside the school has received favorable
recognition from educators and civic authorities throughout the nation. The movement to impress Chicago school children with their duty to
refrain from doing what causes unnecessary expense to the city, state, or federal governments, has won widespread approval. Especial interest
is being manifested in the organization of school girls and boys to prevent a destructive celebration of Halloween. Throughout the
schools of Chicago, the month of October has been devoted to lessons intended to show the pupils the immense damage
to public and private property that results from the usual Halloween pranks each year. The ultimate object of these lessons
is to build up within the school children a willingness to refrain from the boisterous and costly celebrations that are
annual sources of damage throughout the nation.

The effort of Chicago authorities to increase the civic pride of the school children of that great metropolis will be
viewed with approbation here at Davidson, especially that part of the movement which interests itself with promoting a less destructive
celebration of Halloween. It has been a source of regret to the majority of our students each year that a
small minority of the student body are willing to participate in a wild and destructive rampage on the night preceding
All Saints’ Day.

The celebration of Halloween at Davidson has frequently assumed offensive and grotesque proportions, characterized oftentimes by an utter disregard for
the beauty of our campus. Davidson students, permitted to enjoy the benefits of a generous inheritance, should manifest more interest
in the property of which they are temporary trustees. To the visitor who happens upon the Davidson lawn on the
morning following the usual Halloween celebration, the decorations seem both vulgar and out-of-place. A stranger, who has heard that an
atmosphere of culture and well-breeding prevails here, finds the long paper streamers dangling from the limbs of the trees, and
the obscene and unsightly signs placed at random about the buildings, contrary to such a reputation, to say the least.

We are fortunate in that only a small number of our students continue their childishness throughout college, and this minority,
reflecting discredit upon the college, should be frowned upon by the great mass of students. If children in the elementary
grades of the Chicago schools can be induced to refrain from such disgusting activities, surely, it is not too much
to suppose that Davidson students, entering upon the estate of manhood, can be counted upon to sacrifice a bit of
barbarism for the welfare of their college!

THIS FREEDOM

It is to be hoped that the fifty-odd delegates who have assembled at Salem College this weekend for the twelfth
semi-annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will not waste their time in an idle discussion of freedom
of the collegiate press. At every one of the association conventions for the past three years this matter of journalistic
freedom has occupied a position of prominence in the open-forum discussions, with the result that valuable time has been expended
on a will-o-the-wisp theory that has failed to receive either the approbation or the recognition of a single college authority
in our state.

There exists today no more powerful influence on the college campus than the student newspaper, both because it exercises a
control over the distribution of information and, likewise, because of its potentialities as a moulder of student opinion. The very
nature of the average student publication makes this discussion of “freedom” absurd and useless. No student publication, in the hands
of immature editors, can be left to itself to dominate student thought and to control student ideals.

There has been no more enthusiastic ally to the cause of freedom in collegiate publications than The Davidsonian. Its editors
have fought continually and untiringly for the privilege of handling, without faculty assistance and supervision, the news of the college
campus. Its administrators have incessantly “bucked” the age-old idea that college men are not capable of determining the material that
shall go into the columns of the student journals. But, there has come only recently a fuller realization of the
responsibility and duty of the college press, and of the continuous need for advice and supervision from the college authorities.

There has been too much noise over this typically American ideal of “freedom of the press,” especially since it involves
a principle that begs definition. There must be some definite limit to journalistic freedom, even its most enthusiastic exponents admit
that—but who is there to tell us when freedom of the press shall begin, and where it shall end. Our
Supreme Court has certainly failed to give us an infallible opinion on the subject. The principle followed by our national
government with respect to the larger metropolitan journals has been one of indifference and laissez-faire. But, in cases of stress
even this “hands off” policy has been found inadequate, and the government has stepped in to exercise a stringent supervision
of the press.

The law of libel, likewise, operates as a perpetual censor in the question of journalistic freedom. There can be no
doubt that this freedom, carried to its ultimate end, would result in a condition of chaos and confusion—detrimental to the
welfare of the nation and to its subjects.

How much more disastrous would this freedom prove if applied without restriction to the realm of collegiate journalism! The editors
of a college publication are rightfully responsible to the college authorities for their actions, while the college, in the final
analysis, is responsible to the general public for the type of material and the editorial policy of the publications it
permits. If this be true, it is readily seen that the college, with its responsibility, must exercise a certain amount
of control over the student press.

Christianity Is Worthwhile
(A REPLY TO W. C. OGDEN)

Editor’s Note: The following open-forum discussion has been received from a subscriber in Charlottesville, who has asked that his name
be withheld from publication. The article replies to Warren Ogden’s query of two weeks ago, and is welcomed by THE
DAVIDSONIAN as a symbol of the interest that is being demonstrated in our publication beyond the borders of the college
itself.

Having just read with interest W. C. Ogden’sArticle in the Open Forum, I should like to say something, viewing the
subject from another angle. An earnest and wise-hearted Englishman, when asked whether Christianity had succeeded or failed, gave an answer
worthy of our consideration: “Christianity has not been tried and found to fail; it has not been tried!” In the
first fifty years after Christ, when His followers were trying it with all their hearts and souls, they were described
by an outsider as “these that have turned the world upside down.” But, when outside force had failed to check
by persecution this great oncoming power, so inevitably opposed by every heart “hating the light,” the Devil simply went to
work on the inside. The were bles; the ambitious, in working up hierarchies; the fighters, in “holy” wars; the contemplative,
in shirking seclusion. And he is just as wise today in his devices—ritualistic, schismatic, social and a thousand others—for keeping
the minds of Christians off the essential things—life as a walk with God. The few, in all the ages, who,
taking Christ at His word, have tried to work out their lives under His daily direction, have not failed! Marshall
Field and John Wanamaker had no “strikers” among the thousands who worked with them, as well as under them for
a lifetime. Even while refusing to “follow the gleam,” the world caught a vision of a well-nigh new earth when
Woodrow Wilson attempted to raise the standard of Christ as the standard of the nation. Each one of us knows
certain men and women of like spirit, though of smaller spheres. If the church members of any community could be
described, as they once were, as having the mind of Christ, then that community would have tried Christianity! Mr. Ogden
says: “Militarism, Industrialism, Imperialism—these are the foundation stones of Christian civilization.” If that were true, we might well question “Is
Christianity Worthwhile?” Would it not be nearer the truth, however, to say that these three are vast fortresses, raised by
human selfishness on the foundation stones of Christian civilization? It was Christianity that lifted central Europe and Britain from a
welter of barbarism, started education, and inspired the best and wisest of the men who rose to govern. But, every
Christian that has written or spoken on the subject, so far as I know, has explicitly deplored the ruinous lack
of Christianity in Militarism, Industrialism, and Imperialism. The great modern nations arose, and in each one there existed in some
form a Christian church, admittedly more or less faulty, but furnishing the constructive and not the destructive elements of the
nation. They were called “Christian nations” in contradistinction to the “heathen nations,” where the religion of Christ was unknown, and
incidentally where no real enlightenment has ever entered except in the wake of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And now
because these merely so-called Christian nations have outlined and executed policies that are often totally un-Christian, Christianity is arraigned as
a failure! As an extreme instance of this arraignment, one may well cite Mr. Ogden’s reference to the challenge from
the Orient: “Was the World War a result of your Christianity?” Any careful student of conditions in Germany before the
war knows that her leaders began many years earlier with a definite training of the rising generation. For their purpose,
the teachings of Christ were discarded as being opposed to the new national ideal that they wished to create. Those
men of brains did not plant the Sermon on the Mount when they wished to reap Militarism! They wiped Christianity
off the slate, substituting indeed a god, but one made to order, according to the exact measurements of Prussian Imperialism!
As fair-minded judges, let us not blame Christianity for the sinfulness of the Christians who have had little of it,
or of the nations whom it has sought to influence but has never dominated.

An Interested Reader.
Charlottesville, Va., Oct. 20, 1926.

Collegiate Chatter

A Heaven For Joiners

Economics From Life

“Columbia College students of economics will no longer go to textbooks to learn about economics but will study life itself,”
declares the New Student. After four years of research, William E. Weld, associate professor of economics, believes that he has
discovered a method whereby his subject may be illustrated by living examples rather than classical “laws.” A constantly shifting body
of cases is to be employed. Students may furnish cases of their own, taken from situations that have come under
their own observation. “Readings in the regular textbooks are assigned,” explained Professor Weld, “but we give the student no guarantee
that he will find the answer to his problem in them.” Columbia's plan is the pioneer attempt to better the
old method of teaching economics, which leaders have long realized was not meeting the practical needs of students, Professor Weld
said.

Slaves to Public Opinion

Julian S. Starr, Jr., editor, and R. K. Fowler, assistant editor of the Carolina Magazine, have recently been reinstated by
a faculty committee of nine members, following their expulsion by the Student Council at the University for publishing what has
been termed “obscene and indecent” matter in the magazine which they manage. The faculty committee, which voted to override the
decision of the council, declared that the council had acted within its jurisdiction, but that the “publication of the story
did not of itself constitute an act of misconduct.” The article over which the howl of disapproval was raised was
entitled “Slaves,” and was a fiction sex story, not written by the two men who were sentenced to expulsion by
the council. The action of the faculty committee, it is said, will definitely settle at Carolina the question as to
whether anyone outside of the editorial board of a publication can exercise censorship over the material appearing therein.

Big League Stuff

The Petrel, from down at Oglethorpe University, carries an interesting story in its current issue on the success of Oglethorpe
graduates on the professional diamonds of the nation. Former Petrels are now holding positions with the Philadelphia Athletics, the New
York Giants, and the Toronto Club of the International League. Another former Oglethorpe diamond star is playing with Nashville in
the Southern League, while four former wearers of the Gold and Black are outstanding men in the Southeastern circuit of
the Sally League.

“A club for every man.” Consciously or otherwise seems to be the gold-framed motto tacked on the door by a
not inconsequential group of students here. Each day brings forth from the chapel rostrum notices of meetings of additional clubs.
Each year sees several new organizations blossom into verdant virginity. A month after the first promising shoots appear, the loudly
ballyhooed new flora is decomposing rapidly. Its total extinction is not even noticed by the college world. Only the backers
remain and with pathetic blurbs point out the wonderful opportunities their guild offers. And so it goes. There are more
activity hounds every day; there are more students trying through friendship, love, politics, and bluff to work their way into
some organization “for the honor of the frat.” Any person who enters into extra-curricular work without being interested in the
activity for the sake of his own honest kinship with that cause is a bigger Babbitt than George F. ever
was. Half of the organizations on the campus should never have been allowed to be organized. Two-thirds of the remainder
are not worth belonging to. These clubs, societies and activities are not aiding the college. They are not helping their
members in any way. They do boost the ego. And often they painfully extract the price of three or four
evenings’ entertainment with no apparent reason for doing so unless it is to carry on the voluminous correspondence of the
klan (which amounts to three or four short letters a semester).

—Selected.

Cupid’s Capers

Old Dan Cupid, strutting his faithful bow, has again invaded the ranks of the Carolina Playmakers, according to an announcement
appearing in a recent issue of the Carolina Tar Heel. Cupid’s darts pierced the hearts of Miss Katherine Huyck and
P. L. Elmore, prominent members of the Playmaker organization, and the romance culminated recently in a lovely “fade-out” at the
bride’s summer home in the Catskill Mountains. A romance begun on the Playmaker stage has continued onto the stage of
life, where drama and comedy exchange bows with romance, and tragedy paces back and forth restlessly in the wings.
