THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1926

SNAPSHOTS OF MILITARY LIFE

Familiar Faces and Scenes in Views of Military Activities

Above is a group of scenes and familiar faces seen frequently on the campus here. These pictures were taken by the R. O. T. C. department and were grouped together for this special issue. This is the first time that this cut has ever been used and some of the things in it will give great amusement to those who observe it carefully.

In the top picture on the extreme left, the first platoon of D Company is shown passing in review. The second platoon is slightly in the background on the left. To the right of this is a new scene of an old familiar spot, Dormitory Row. On the extreme right, some of the prominent men on the campus are shown as they appeared in military uniform their first year here at Davidson. From left to right they are: Harllee Branch, editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian for next year; Jim Pinkney, president of the student body for next year; and A. H. Hollingsworth, president of the Y. M. C. A. this year.

AUSTIN’S CANDY SHOP
127 West Broad Street

When you come up for those spring dances bring her in.

At the extreme left of the middle group of pictures, a snapshot of Capt. John E. Elkins is represented. Captain Elkins came to Davidson this past fall from Fort Benning, where he had been stationed for two years. He is in charge of the band at Davidson now and has helped it out a great deal while he has been here. To the right of this picture is shown a snapshot of Sergeant Short, an advanced course student, as he appeared at Camp McClelland this past summer. In the center is a picture of the tents that house the students while they are being trained in the summer camps. To the right is another scene of the summer camp with Steve Wall in the foreground. Next to him is H. L. Shelby, in his uniform.

At the extreme left of the bottom group of pictures, two familiar faces are presented, H. L. Laws and Spike McGee, although their bodies do not seem to be quite so familiar. Scattered around these pictures are various shots of some of the students in military. The next group picture is that of Captain Huie, commander of the battalion, and Cadet Weems, Captain Daugherity, Cadet Major Captain Wilson, adjutant of the battalion. The full-length picture to the right of this is that of Lieutenant Beckett, who was transferred from foreign service in the Philippines to his post of military instructor at Davidson. At the extreme right is a scene at the summer camp with a group of Davidson boys getting their chow.

W. H. Moore, '23 (captain), is teaching at the Takamatsu College, Takamatsu, Japan.

D. H. Ogden, '23 (captain), is at the Union Theological Seminary.

S. B. Gibbs, '25 (captain), is studying for the ministry at Columbia Seminary.

W. C. Ramsey, '25 (captain), is teaching school at Tarboro, N. C.

of Southern Saddlery Company, Chattanooga, Tennessee, manufacturers of Puttees, Garrison and Sam Brown Belts for schools and colleges.

COMPLIMENTS

What’s “Behind the Front?”

Well, One Thing is a Good Cleaning and Pressing Shop

Night or Day, Peace or War, Cold or Hot—no other way to say service is yell for

BORDEAUX

“It’s Bordeaux this and Bordeaux that; And Bordeaux, where in the hang’s my britches at?” And he always knows.

CITY PRESSING CLUB
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

©1926, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

THAT means “Pipa Amoroso” in the Latin, or “pipe-lover” in plain campus English. P. A. has certainly endeared a pipe to more men than any other letters in the smoke-alphabet. Because Prince Albert lets a fellow smoke all he wants to—and makes him want to!

Cool as the stare of a marble Venus. Sweet as the approach of vacation. Fragrant as spring blossoms. Think up your own similes, Fellows. You will when you pick P. A. and a jimmy-pipe for permanent roommates. Prince Albert is great tobacco, and that’s not blah.

Get yourself a tidy red tin of Prince Albert today. Fill the bowl of that old jimmy-pipe to the brim and borrow a match. Then you’re set for some great smoke-sessions, as sure as you’re a foot high.

Decorate yourself with the degree of P.A.

PRINCE ALBERT
—no other tobacco is like it!

P. A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.