4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1926

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Entered as Second Class Mail Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. .......... Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES ............ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. DANIELS ................. Managing Editor
MOORE ................. Assistant Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN ........ Assistant Managing Editor
LYLE H. LINES ................. Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB ................. Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY ................. Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN ................. Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY ................. Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN ................. Alumni Editor
W. B. CURRIE ................. Assignment Editor
B. E. THOMAS ................. Feature Editor
D. D. OWEN ................. Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF
E. B. DOUGLAS ................. Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD ................. Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE ................. Assistant Business Manager
S. A. POILLON ................. Subscription Manager
J. L. ALBRIGHT ................. Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY ................. Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
A. N. BROWN
R. H. McILWAINE
J. L. ELY
J. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH
A. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD
B. WILSON
B. F. MCQUEEN

EDITORIAL

SAME OLD GAG

The perennial attack on football by those who view with alarm its growing popularity has been reopened this year by
Alfred Dashiell, who, like his predecessors, denounces football as a distraction and an expensive parasite, living off the budgets of
American colleges. We are not surprised at Mr. Dashiell’s attitude—there are thousands who will agree with him—but we do believe
that he has exaggerated the menace of the sport.

Writing in the November Forum, Mr. Dashiell declares that “football has become a religious cult, building stadiums instead of cathedrals.
Its moral and intellectual benefits are absurdly exaggerated. It is so expensive that educational budgets suffer. There is nothing Greek
about football. It is a barbaric Roman spectacle for a degenerate Roman mob.”

This bold statement smacks only slightly of the truth. It is one of these clever manipulations of words and phrases
that lead inevitably to a false conclusion. One so wise as Mr. Dashiell must have smiled to himself as he
compared football, a Saturday afternoon sport for undergraduates, with a religious cult. His analogy is amusing in its distortion.

When Mr. Dashiell declares that many people fear that football will become a new national religion, and that thinkers abroad
in our land are viewing with alarm the canonization of football heroes, he is guilty of one of two unexplainable
attitudes. Either he has jokingly decided to jostle the gullible public, or he is suffering from a fanciful fear solely
of his imagination. Surely no one believes with him that a false glamour and sentimentalism surrounding football will make of
it a Saturday afternoon ritual!

There is even more room for doubt in Mr. Dashiell’s statement that the twenty-two clean-living gridiron warriors do nothing more
than afford an opportunity for childish exhibitions by drunken undergraduates in the stands. He has inexcusably mixed causes and effects.
If “drunks” still persist in crowding the stands at Saturday afternoon football games—and our own experience teaches us that this
custom is continually losing its popularity in spite of the growth of football—why lay the blame on twenty-one clean living
athletes, who are in no way responsible for such a condition. It is the men who persist in “childish exhibitions,”
which they should have discarded at the end of their sophomore year, and not the athletes that are responsible if
such a condition exists.

We are prone to accept, moreover, the opinion of Dean Gauss, of Princeton, who has said “For my part, I
wish we played football every Saturday during the college year. My job during the football season is much easier, as
far as enforcing discipline in the university goes, than at any other time.”

Why all this antagonism to the hero-worship enjoyed by football stars? Hero worship may be a bad thing, but anyone
who has had even a little experience with the young of the human species knows that it is universal and
ineradicable. You must deal with it whether you like it or not. Why not make it as useful and helpful
as possible? If a boy has no one else to admire, he will admire and envy a dead-game gambler quite
as blindly as he will follow a splendid specimen of the sound mind in the sound, clean body.

“One reason why the game has taken such a hold on the public is its essential atmosphere of straightforwardness and
downrightness, its contempt for chicanery and fraud,” declares Coach William Roper, in answering Mr. Dashiell’s article. “I am firmly of
the opinion that the more we encourage athletic competition, the better citizens we make,” he continues, “and oftentimes football games
are won and lost simply on a mental difference which more than offsets physical differences just as great.”

There is no doubt that football has its faults, but the benefits from the game and its influence on those
who play it far outweigh its defects. President Ernest M. Hopkins, of Dartmouth, has sounded a note of warning which
should carefully be considered by those who ascribe the evils to football much greater than really exist and who seek
to eliminate it from our school and college activities. President Hopkins said, “It is not surprising in a country where
we strive to make man temperate by legislation, industrious by court decree, and happy by political oratory, that we should
assume our ability to make men scholars by denying them the opportunity for indulging in any other interest. But arguing
from analogy, we lack certainty that this would be the inevitable outcome.”

DUTY—A SUBLIME WORD

It was at a dinner, and Robert E. Lee, Commander-in-chief of the Confederate forces had been called upon to speak.
The gray-haired old commander of the vanquished southern army had risen slowly from his seat about the table, and had
bowed to the applause of the hundreds of younger men who were gathered with him in the festive hall. They
had asked him to tell of his experiences, and he had done so—such tales of devotion to a cause as
none other than the old commander himself could have narrated.

He was closing his address, and his hearers were spellbound in their admiration for him and the sentiments he had
expressed. Turning slowly about so as to look into the eyes of each of his hearers he made a statement,
the truth of which has come down to us, each passing year adding color to his words. “Gentlemen,” he said,
“Duty is the sublimest word in the English language.”

How many of us have stopped to think of the sublimity of the word “Duty,” and of the sublimity of
the sacrifice it connotes? In these days of hustle and bustle, of nervous flitting to and fro, and of selfishness,
many of us are prone to forget our duty to our God, our country, our parents, our fellows, and our
college.

There is a whole lot more than just living, there’s a great deal more than just doing what we have
to do to live from day to day. There’s the folks back home who are counting on big things from
us—a mother and a father who have lived for us, and whose duty to us has been their only interest.
Are we forgetting them in the midst of the new life, the new friends, and the new interest we have
found at college? Not a day should pass but that we should pause to think of the sacrifices our parents
have made for us. Not a day should pass but that we should do some little thing to make them
happy—and proud.

Then, there’s the old college—not just an institution where we come to spend a few years, then to leave and
forget forever. It’s got a soul—a real soul—and it’s got feelings, the same as any one of us. Of course,
it’s hard to think of the college, with its rambling buildings and its muddy walks as being human—but, it is
a whole lot so. When we fail to conduct ourselves in a manner becoming of a son of the college,
we hurt it. When we think only of it as a place where we must spend four or five hours
in monotonous study each day, and as nothing more, we do it a grave injustice. It’s just human enough to
want our love and our service—and it’s begging us for it. Shall we fail to heed its call?

There has been too little attention paid of late to the duty college men owe their God. There has been
too much of a frothysort of faith among undergraduates, and too much of a willingness to desert Him for the
untried and unproved gods of fancy. We owe Him a real service, if for no other reason than the fact
that He has blessed the college we attend and the homes from which we have come. He is a jealous
God, and He cannot appreciate the semi-faithfulness that so many of us are paying Him simply because of fear or
a hope of reward.

Who’s Who at Davidson

LYNN BACHMAN McCLAIN
Sweetwater, Tenn.
President of the Junior Class

Sweetwater, (the exact location of which we have failed to ascertain in spite of a close examination of numerous maps),
claims Lynn McClain as its son, and basks in the glory of his achievements at Davidson. All of the inhabitants
of Sweetwater (three hundred more or less) are still talking of the fine record that Lynn has made since he
left T. M. I., where he was a major in the school band, and entered Davidson. Last spring, they clipped
the newspaper announcements of Lynn's election to the presidency of his class at Davidson, and have placed them in a
prospectus which the Sweetwater Chamber of Commerce is mailing to outside communities. Lynn receives letters from unknown admirers who have
seen these bulletins, and who “just want to ask him if he is really from Sweetwater.” He smiles modestly when
seriously, though, Lynn has overcome the handicap of being from the metropolis of Sweetwater, and has gained for himself a
position of leadership and preeminence among his fellow-students. Recognition of him by the “powers that be” on the campus dates
back to the day when he was elected president of the Beaver Club, an honorary sophomore order, and business manager
of the Glee Club. His election to the latter position came as a surprise, since none but a senior had
ever won this office. His subsequent and successful management of the club on its great swing through the southeast, however,
left no doubts as to the wisdom of its choice. Last spring he was chosen to fill the presidency of
the junior class, and as such he is today a prominent leader in campus activities. He is a member of
the Beta Theta Pi national social fraternity.

HUGH M. ARROWOOD
Shelby, N. C.
Vice-President of the Student Body

Hugh Arrowood, a man of silence, came down to Davidson from Shelby, N. C., and his arrival on the campus
created quite a furor of excitement, despite his aversion to such demonstrations. His enviable reputation as a high school athlete
had preceded him here, and the enthusiasm which marked his arrival was quite to be expected. Hugh had little to
say concerning his ambitions or his past performances. He was another Cal Coolidge, and somehow or other his modesty added
to the admiration that he so quickly won on the campus. Few weeks had passed before members of the Class
of ’28 began to brag about the star athlete in their midst, and of the record he was making on
the freshmen football team. They spoke of Hugh with a feeling of pride and of respect. At the end of
his freshman year, Hugh was elected to the position of vice-president of his class, and in that office he served
his class well. Last spring, after a successful season on the varsity football team, he won the recognition of the
students as a whole and was elevated to the office of vice-president of the student body. He is now enjoying
the prestige and honor of that position. His work on the gridiron and on the baseball diamond, and his popularity
among his fellows have brought him recognition and honor. For two years he has served his class and his college
on the student council, being one of the oldest men, in point of service, on the governing body of the
college. With all his honors, and all his achievements he has remained the same genial, modest fellow that he was
upon his entry here three years ago. He is destined for still another year of leadership and influence at Davidson.
He is a member of the Delta Theta Chi social fraternity.

Collegiate Chatter

The Inquiring Reporter

Special Delivery

A mail delivery system among the students of N. C. State College will be installed as soon as the necessary
change in the college budget can be made to include the purchase of receptacles to be placed in each dormitory
for the mail, according to a news item appearing in the Technician. The installation of this new delivery system was
the solution of the present crowded condition of the State College Post Office, and followed the publication of statistics indicating
that 650 boys who stand in line at the post office window waiting for their mail, waste 76,050 hours a
school term.

Greek War Over

Fraternity rushing season at the University of North Carolina closed last Tuesday night, with the pledging of a great host
of freshmen to the various chapters on the University campus. The rushing season ended with the tolling of the bell
in Old South Hall, and marked the end of the 126th rushing season at the state university. As the bell
tolled its last, all conversation between fraternity men and freshmen was prohibited, and the bewildered freshmen were left in peace
to make their decisions. The system at Carolina permits the Dean of the Liberal Arts school to handle all bids,
a notice being sent to each freshman who has been bid by any of the fraternities. In response to this
notice, the freshman goes to the Dean’s office, and, without interference, compiles a preferential list of the bids he would
like to accept. His first choice, provided it is the chapter which has bid him, becomes the fraternity of his
choice. This system is unique to Carolina, and is used by no other institution in the state.

What, Women Again?

The desirability of co-education among the higher institutions of learning was the subject of a lively debate by the Philo
Society at King College last week, according to the King College News. After a lengthy and hostile discussion in which
the new system was considered from every angle, a decision was awarded to the negative team which had argued against
the admission of men and women students to the same colleges.

Open-Minded

Students at the University of Minnesota are not afraid of the winds of fundamentalist doctrine. By a three to one
vote they demanded that Dr. Riley, the W. J. Bryan of the Northwest, who was barred from the campus by
the college president last winter, be given a hearing by the students and faculty. The poll, as taken by the
Minnesota Daily, shows that 132 out of 200 disbelieved in fundamentalism, however.

In the past there has been very little attention paid to Intra-Mural athletics, and there has been much favor shown
by the students toward enlarging this as an established phase in college life. Do you think that its organization would
prove beneficial to the students?

Heber McIlwaine: For a college of this size organized Intra-Mural athletics would be a great asset. Now it is confined
to two inter-class sports, and one inter-frat sport, and it would be helpful to enlarge upon it.

W. C. Penn: Intra-Mural sports would be a fine chance for students not making any varsity sport to have some
outlet for their energy. It would also create a lot of interest and spirit of friendly rivalry.

H. B. Arbuckle: The idea doesn’t appeal to me so much, for if a man really wants to participate in
a sport, the school is small enough that he would have a chance to stay on a scrub team throughout
the whole season of the sport. Also, sports that were not organized would be dangerous to an inexperienced man.

Hansel: The games that the R. O. T. C. have sponsored have added a lot to the feeling held by
a student toward athletics in general. These have been well supervised, and have given the men, not out for a
sport, a chance to work off some extra energy.

C. W. Harrison: There is one distinct advantage in Intra-Mural sport because many times, a man who has not been
interested in trying out for a sport, finds that he is able to play the game well, and eventually makes
that particular varsity squad.

L. D. Wharton: If there were greater facilities for Intra-Mural sports there would be a greater participation by students. I
am very much in favor of inter-class or inter-dormitory games in soccer, basketball or baseball, and an organized program that
would further this would be of great benefit to all that would take part.

Tom Jones: Intra-Mural activities have been successful at nearly all the schools that have them, and have done much toward
creating better organization or class spirit. Men who do not make varsity or scrub squads in major sports feel discouraged
to continue, and are in a way robbed of their right to organized sports.
