Vol. XIV FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 18, 1926 No. 10 NEW CRAZY CAT CLUB
TO IMPROVE CHEERING AMO New Organization Formed as Answer to Need of Increased Spirit Among Upperclassmen — Branch Elected President
Answering a call issued by several prominent men of the campus, some two hundred upperclassmen gathered in Shearer Hall last
Wednesday night for the purpose of organizing a cheering club to serve as a nucleus for cheering among the students.
On the following night another meeting was called and the name, “Crazy Cats,” was chosen, with Harllee Branch, Jr., of
Atlanta, being elected president of the organization. At the meeting Wednesday night much enthusiasm was shown and good speeches were
made by Don Wharton, Bobby Glenn, Branch and others, endorsing the movement for better yelling at the games and urging
that such an organization be brought into existence at Davidson. Others who were instrumental in organizing the “Crazy Cats” were
Bill Storey and Jim Kuykendall. Attention was called to the fact that other colleges have similar Pep squads although practically
all are located in large institutions and it is thought that Davidson is one of the first colleges of its
size to have such an organization. Carolina has her “Cheerios;” Oklahoma University her “Roughnecks;” Texas has the “Cowboys,” and many
other institutions have their cheering squads. At the meeting Thursday night, Jim Kuykendall and Harllee Branch, Jr., were nominated with
Branch being elected. Among the names submitted were: “The Howlers,” “The Yowlers,” “The Pepperells,” “Meows,” “Cats,” and several others. (Continued
on page 6) Davidson Students Injured in Auto Mishap John McNeily Sustains Fractured Skull When Thrown From Truck in Mooresville
John McNeily was seriously injured, and several other Davidson boys were less severely hurt on Thursday, November 11th, when they
were thrown from a truck in Mooresville. These boys had gone to Mooresville to take part in the Armistice Day
celebration, and were on their way to the American Legion Hall, north of Mooresville, when the accident occurred. They had
led the parade through town to the cemetery, had finished the exercises there, had marched back through town, and then
disbanded there to catch a ride on out to the hall. They caught a ride on a large truck, and
had gotten about halfway when a car came up from behind, passed the truck, and struck the front of it.
The driver swerved the truck to the left to miss the car as much as possible, and it was at
this time that the boys were thrown off. Only four of the boys, Moriarty, Ballard, Abernethy, and Roger Hall, were
able to keep their balance on the truck, and none of these four were hurt at all. The other six,
McNeily, Cox, Baily, Boyd, McIntyre, and Houston, were thrown off, and all of these except Hamilton were knocked unconscious. Baily,
Houston, and Boyd recovered in a few minutes, but Cox and McNeily were taken to the hospital. Cox received several
cuts about the face, but returned to school last Monday, and is feeling all right now. McNeily’s condition was about
the same when he was last heard (Continued on page 2) UPPER CLASSES November Issue of Magazine Reviewed by Student
Writer The Following is a Review of The Chameleon Submitted by P. F. Jones, Feature Writer for The Davidsonian Clothes
do not make the man—nor altogether is in a magazine. But we don't for that reason cultivate the acquaintance. Much
more like we'll pick the dressed individual and does cover indicate what tramps. well decide of whether, as his inner
worth or worthlessness develops, he is to our taste. “The Chameleon’s” bright coat downright refreshing after an era of uniformly
dull magazine covers that possessed not a spark of distinction. And the editor informs me that each and every issue
will be bound in a brand new color. If the future dress of “The Chameleon” measures up to the swathing
clothes of the November number, that magazine will always create on the campus an introductory favor towards the material inside.
Every issue is well satisfied with “The Chameleon’s” cover I turn to (Continued on page 8) Davidson to Trek to
Duke Thursday The Wednesday before Thanksgiving and Thanksgiving Day itself will witness a great exodus of loyal Davidson students for
the Davidson-Duke fracas in Durham. When the whistle blows, starting the last game of the Wildcat schedule for 1926, and
the game which many of the last men on the team will play for Davidson, a large body of enthusiastic
“Cat” supporters will be in the stands to back their team. The cessation of all classes on that day will
make it possible for practically the entire student body to attend the game. After Carolina’s defeat by Davidson Saturday, everyone
is keenly interested in this Thanksgiving Day tussle, as in losing it Davidson would relinquish her claims to a joint
possession with the Deacons of the state title. By a victory Davidson will at least cinch a tie for the
top place. As was predicted early in the season, it now appears that the state championship did actually hang on
the Davidson-Wake Forest battle in Charlotte of several weeks ago. That game ended in a tie, it now looks as
if the Wildcats and the Demon Deacons will be the joint possessors of the coveted state title. Davidson is still
to meet Duke, and N. C. State is still on the program of the Wake Forest team. Should either of
the leading teams be defeated in one of these contests, the other will get the decision. As matters now stand,
Davidson and Wake Forest are tied for the top, Carolina stands third, State fourth, and Duke is trailing in last
place. The Deacons have defeated Carolina and Duke; Davidson has beaten State and Carolina; the Baptists and the Presbyterians tied.
Carolina has been the victor in her contests with Duke and State but has come out on the short end
of the score against Davidson and Wake Forest. State’s sole victory for the season is her defeat of Duke. (Continued
on page 6) Many Alumni Return to Celebrate Festivities of Annual Home-Coming Varied Program is Presented During Eventful Day STADIUM
DEDICATED Doctor McGeachy, of Charlotte, Delivers Address at Dedicatory Program—President Presides The Home-Coming exercises held on Saturday, November 13th, were
a success from the first events in the morning through the victory on Richardson Field and the subsequent celebration in
the evening. Each part of the program was well attended and went off in fine style. The R.O.T.C. Battalion started
off the day with setting-up exercises on Richardson Field after which they passed in review before the new stadium. After
the parade the unit marched into a reserved section of the stands for the formal presentation and address. Owing to
the inability of the Richardson brothers, H. S. and L., to be present, they sent J. Max Hendrix, also of
Greensboro, to represent them officially. Mr. Hendrix read a letter of presentation in which the donors expressed their realization of
the need of Davidson for some sort of permanent stands for the athletic contests held on the hill. The stadium
is in memory of L. Richardson of the class of 1875. The letter went on to say that it was
presented “in hope that future generations may profit in some measure from the benefits of trained minds in strong bodies.”
The gift was officially accepted for the college by Dr. Martin and dedicated in a prayer by Dr. C. M.
Richards. The main address of the day was delivered by Dr. A. A. McGeachy, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church,
Charlotte, N. C. The subject of his speech was “The Leadership of Davidson College.” Among theMany parts of life that
Davidson College may be considered a leader or among the leaders were character building, the numbers of ministers of the
gospel that she has sent out to the world, and her stand for scholarship. Along this line, he pointed out
that athletics should have a more prominent part in college life and should receive more credit for what it accomplishes.
He said, “Athletics are no longer a stepchild. They are as much a part of our education as Greek or
Latin; they minister to the upbuilding of our bodies as the cultural studies minister to the upbuilding of our minds.”
Athletics go far toward developing alertness and decision and perhaps do more for character building than chapel exercises, he concluded.

The remainder of the program of Home-Coming day consisted in the 10-0 defeat of the University of North Carolina and
the Stunt Night Entertainment.

(Continued on page 6)

QUEENS’ PERFORMANCE POSTPONED

In deference to the Queens’ College Glee Club, which has planned for some time to render its annual concert in
Shearer Hall on next Tuesday evening, November 23rd, THE DAVIDSONIAN, in consultation with the Queens’ Dramatic Club authorities, has agreed
to a postponement of the date originally set for the Dramatic Club performance at Davidson. Announcement will be made at
a later date concerning the Dramatic Club performance, a date for which is to be decided upon as soon as
possible. Tickets for the dramatic club offering will be placed on sale as soon as the date is confirmed.

DAVIDSON DOWNS FAST UNIVERSITY TEAM 10-0

Hilarious Program Presented at Glee Club’s Stunt Night

Students Vie With One Another in Thrilling Comedy Offerings—Glee Club Sings

As a conclusion to the happy and glorious festivities of the day, the annual stunt night was held in Shearer
Hall last Saturday night at 8:15 p.m. and lasted till well nigh eleven, but the variety of the entertainment kept
the mirth-seeking audience so well amused that the length of the program seemed short. Shearer Hall was crowded to capacity,
every available seat being sold before the beginning of the entertainment. To add to the variety of amusements, the stunts
presented by the various classes were interspersed with musical numbers and the Red and Black Masquers. Besides the participants of
the different class stunts, those taking part in the program were Ed Wilson and H. R. Mobley, members of the
Glee Club, the Jazz Orchestra, Quartet, and Guitar Club. The proceeds of the performance went to the Glee Club. The
first feature on the program was a selection of numbers rendered by the Glee Club.

(Continued on page 8)

Dr. Frazer Hood Talks at Vespers

Dr. Frazer Hood, Professor of Psychology, addressed the “Y” meeting last Sunday before a rather small audience. J. M. Appleby,
Secretary of the ‘Y’, introduced the speaker and in doing so told something of his splendid work. Dr. Hood chose
as his text Jer. 1:1-14. In opening his speech, Dr. Hood compared Jeremiah to a football player. He told something
of Jeremiah’s home, Anathoth. “Jeremiah,” Dr. Hood said, “received his call early. Before Jeremiah was born, he had been dedicated
to his prophetical office. God did not look for a man to fill the job, but he had a job
and the man. God has a mission for all of us before we are born and then calls us into
being. The trouble is with us, as with Jeremiah, we make excuses and fight against an urge to do this
or that. Jeremiah cried that he was no speaker and was too young. College students should realize the importance of
making their decision as soon as possible. Ministerial students usually do the best in college because they come to school
with a definite view of what they are going to do.” Dr. Hood pointed out that Jeremiah was suffering from
a complex of shrinking away from realities. We also fight an urge to do a certain work. Until we learn
to face the reality, it will be a handicap. In discussing the waste of time that students often make by
delaying their decisions, Dr. Hood told of a delay that he made because of being afraid to face realities. God
said to Jeremiah that if he became afraid, he would dismay him. We must not be afraid to choose our
life work. A football player that tries to save himself will usually get hurt. By facing realities, we will be
able to win.

IN BRILLIANT CONTEST

Largest Crowd in College History Sees Scrappy Wildcats Piloted By Wilson Take Scalp of Carolina Aggregation.

Playing before the greatest crowd ever to attend a football game in western North Carolina, Davidson trounced North Carolina by
a score of 10 to nothing last Saturday. Nearly 8,000 people, for the most part ardent supporters of the teams,
crowded into Richardson Field and watched the Wildcats claw their way to a touchdown in the first nine minutes of
play. Toward the end of the third quarter, after a Wildcat lineman had recovered a Tar Heel fumble and a
pass to Bohannon had netted some twelve yards, Dick Grey booted a perfect drop kick through the Carolina uprights from
the thirty-yard line for the final score.

To open the contest, Grey kicked off to Carolina's 19-yard line and the ball was returned to the 27-yard line
by McDaniel. Several line plays failed and Carolina kicked to Grey on his own 45-yard line who returned 11 yards.
On the first offensive play made by Davidson, Wilson hurled the oval to Wells for a 16-yard gain. A line
plunge by Grey netted two yards and a pass was incomplete, but Bohannon caught the next throw for a 10-yard
advance and first down on Carolina’s 18-yard line. Two line plays gained little and Grey passed to Wells for 11
yards and placed the ball on the six-yard line. Two line bucks profited but two yards and on the next
play Nisbet plowed over right tackle for a touchdown. Grey kicked the extra point.

(Continued on page 2)

Juniors to Stage Class Minstrel December 20th

Class Hopes to Raise Money to Help Defray Expense of Junior Week

At a recent meeting of the Junior class, that body voted to stage a class minstrel on the night of
December 20th, just preceding the close of school for the Christmas recess. The purpose of the minstrel will be to
raise funds to help defray the expenses of the annual Junior Speaking program which takes place during the early spring.
At this same meeting, the class voted to hold these festivities at the time now set in the catalogue, which
is from March 30th to April 5th. Easter Sunday is included in these dates, a time when most of the
neighboring schools hold their spring holidays. The idea of a minstrel is not a new one. Such performances have been
held in recent years. The last recorded was in 1921. Since that time, the Glee Club has furnished all the
musical programs presented by the students.

The Junior Week committees are rapidly forming their plans. At present, ways and means of raising money are being given
major consideration. The program has never been a financial success and the members of the class have always contributed heavily
to the class coffers. Last year the assessment amounted to something more than six dollars a man. The class hopes
to bring the Glee Club of two girls’ institutions to Davidson during the winter months to give performances. Basketball and
post-season football games are also being considered. Negotiations have been underway.

(Continued on page 5)
