THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 11, 1926

RICE SPEAKS TO VOLUNTEER BAND

The Volunteer Band held its weekly meeting at 10 a.m. on Sunday, February 7th. Bill Rice gave a very interesting talk on The Advantages of Being a Missionary to Africa. He brought out the different phases of missionary work in different parts of that country. At this meeting, it was announced that there would be a state convention for student volunteers, and all others who are interested in volunteer work, at the North Carolina College for Women in Greensboro, between the 26th and 28th of this month. There will be a registration fee of $2.50 for all who attend. Anyone who is interested, whether a volunteer or not, is invited to attend.

SORE THROAT

For tonsillitis or hoarseness, gargle with warm salt water. Rub Vicks over the throat and cover with a hot flannel cloth. Swallow slowly small pieces.

VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S

MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

WRIGLEY'S P.K. NEW HANDY PACK

Fits hand, pocket, and purse. More for your money and the best Peppermint Chewing Sweet for any money. Look for Wrigley’s P.K. Handy Pack on your Dealer’s Counter.

Fellows: You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, Davidson, N.C.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

“I think we met in this cafe last winter; your overcoat looks familiar.”
“But I didn’t own it then.”
“No, but I did.”

THE SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST

The Charleston and Examinations.

“Sale on, Sale on,” cried Columbus as he tried to sell strings of beads to the Indians.

Officer—“Mr. Woodham, what is the strategy of war? Give me an illustration.”
Kelly—“Well, strategy is when you don’t let the enemy know you are out of ammunition, but just keep on firing.”

Stude—“Doctor, I do not pretend to know how to read poetry.”
Prof.—“Well, I’m not trying to make you think you do.”

A maid entered a suburban bus, and firmly grasped a strap. And every time they hit a hole, she sat in a different lap. The holes grew deeper, jerking worse, till at last she gasped, with a smile: “Will someone kindly tell me, please, how many laps to the mile?”

ZIEGFELD'S SALLY

“Mother, where are the Indians in this play?”
“Hush, dearies, there are no Indians in this play.”
“Well, then, who scalped all those men down on the front row?”

“Toast—do you eat it or drink it?”

“How old is that flapper?”
“In her early nicoteens.”

“Naughty, naughty,” cried the sweet young thing as the scorekeeper put up a couple of zeros.

One professor is reported to have said that he would make his exams easy because he didn’t believe in being cruel to dumb animals.

“I lost my wife at sea.”
“Too bad, old top, did a wave take her away?”
“No, but a lifeguard did.”

A FAIRY STORY

Once upon a time, there was a man who had a car two years old, and he decided to repaint it. Two days later, seven of his neighbors asked him when he got his new car.

Tom Anderson was showing his girl a picture of his father holding him on his knee when Tom was about four years of age. The girl wanted to know who the ventriloquist was.

Flip—“Why didn’t you kiss her?”
Flop—“Why should I? She bore me.”

Fresh—“Where’s the best place to take a girl around here?”
Soph—“Home.”

He—“Can I see him?”
She—“I can’t drive any longer. My wrist is tired.”
He—“How original.”

“Does he trust his girl?”
“About as far as he can throw a carload of Kentucky mules.”

Prominent Students To Be Brought to the Bar of Justice For Wagers

World Renowned Students Are Implicated in Gigantic Wager Concerning Scholarship

“In case of a tie all bets are off?” and thus the Student Council was saved from the necessity of expelling four prominent students of Davidson College, two of whom are members of the council itself, for what the constitution terms “gambling.”

The story properly begins back in the early days of the first semester when Roland Parker, Farmville intellectual prodigy, walked into the domicile of Hayden Hollingsworth and sophisticatedly wagered with said Hollingsworth’s roommate that room number two, first floor of Georgia Dormitory, would excel room number twenty-two in the general average for the semester. Hollingsworth was not present nor was Bowie, “Parker's wife,” but both later incriminated themselves by joining into the wager.

“You say that Louise married a self-made man?”
“Yeah.”
“Whazzamatter? Wasn't she satisfied with the job?”

“How is your husband, Mandy?”
“He is still confined to his room, Parson.”
“Sho nuff? I didn’t know he was sick.”
“Mebbe so, but he is in the jailhouse.”

“I don’t care to keep that schoolgirl complexion,” said the Soph as...He brushed the powder off his coat. “You seem to have struck up quite an acquaintance with Gladys.” 
“Yes, she's a girl after my own heart.” 
“She's a bear.” 
“She's a chicken.” 
“Oh, whatta peach!” 
“Ain't she a beaut of a bird?” 
But when we got a knockdown to her, we soon found out she was a lemon. 

“AN say here, James, dat hoss whut you done sole me yestiddy am stone bline.” 
“Dat hoss ain’t bline, man.” 
“Well, den whut for did he run into a tree?” 
“Well, niggah, he ain't bline, he jus’ don't give a doggone.”

Wifie (as hubby goes for the sugar)—“Use the tongs, William.” 
Hubby—“Whazzamatter? Is it hot?”

He—“Do you like walking downhill?” 
She—“Goodness, no.” 
He—“Then let’s drive up this mountain.”

You can lead an ass to college but you can't keep him from drinking.

“Wonder what that rumbling is in my stomach. Sounds like a Ford going into low over a cobblestone street.” 
“Probably that truck you ate for dinner.”

The dean of an Eastern U. claims that the value of a college education is worth $72,000 to each man who obtains one. Let’s liquidate, men, let’s liquidate!

“Yessir, this is certainly weather.” 
“Howzat?” 
“Everybody has the grip.”

“Eight o'clock,” gasped the girl as she swallowed her wristwatch.

Bob (in restaurant)—“What do you like best?” 
Her—“I like liverwurst.”

Clarence—“What will you do if I kiss you?” 
Clarice—“I'll bite.”

The Happy Hour—Saying good-night for the last time.

She—“I'm a co-ed and proud of it.” 
He—“I'm glad somebody is proud of it.”

A woman never knows what she can do until she cries. Kiss, and “make-up” again.

“Isn't she divine? She looks like the goddess of liberty.” 
“She is. She’s been divorced four times.”

With the issuance of the reports of Hollingsworth, with an average of 98.16666, and Eddington, his roommate, of an even 95, Bowie came forth with his best report of years, achieving a grade of 95.3333. Three days later there was much rejoicing on the first floor when Parker's report showed an average of 97.8333. On averaging the two grades together it was shown that each of the two rooms had a composite grade of 96.58333. Exactly what was the amount of the wager has not as yet been ascertained. It is, however, authentically reported that on the eve of the appearance of the final report the restlessness and uneasiness of the four parties concerned was such as to indicate a considerable sum. The principals state that as yet they have not decided whether the wager will be re-entered. There is a rumor that there is a possibility of the wager becoming three-cornered with the entrance of another room of Georgia Dormitory.

WILDCATS TO FACE DARTMOUTH (Continued from page 1)

As was the case last year, Davidson will meet the University of North Carolina in their annual Easter Day classic at Salisbury. Gastonia will see the Wildcats twice, Davidson meeting both Duke University and North Carolina State in that stronghold of Wildcats. With eight letter men back in college, the team promises to be an improvement on that which represented the college last year, although it is doubtful to what extent it will be successful. Manager Spencer’s schedule shows the possibility of being turned into a highly successful season, being one of the best balanced that any Wildcat team has had to work on for years. Meeting the best teams of North and South Carolina and Virginia, in addition to the Northern foe, Davidson will have sufficient opportunity to show its worth in case a winning nine is placed on the field. The following is the schedule:

March 26—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
March 27—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
April 2—Lenoir-Rhyne at Davidson.
April 5—North Carolina at Salisbury.
April 10—Duke at Greensboro.
April 16—North Carolina State at Davidson.
April 17—North Carolina State at Gastonia.
April 21—Furman University at Greenville.
April 22—Clemson at Clemson.
April 23—Wofford at Spartanburg (pending).
April 27—Guilford at Winston-Salem.
April 28—V. M. I. at Lexington.
April 29—Washington and Lee at Lexington.
May 1—Roanoke at Salem.
May 5—Elon at Davidson.
May 8—Duke University at Gastonia.

DON’T FORGET TO REMEMBER
February 14, St. Valentine’s Day
Send her a box of Hollingsworth’s Candy

YOU’LL ALWAYS FIND A GOOD SHOW AT THE VICTORY THEATRE — MOORESVILLE

Weekly, Thurs. and Fri., Feb. 11-12
NEW LIVES FOR OLD with BETTY COMPSON
Sat., Feb. 13
THE LADY FROM HELL with BLANCHE SWEET
Mon. and Tues., Feb. 15 and 16
HIS SUPREME MOMENT with BLANCHE SWEET and RONALD COLMAN
Wed., Thurs., Feb. 17-18
PRETTY LADIES with ZASU PITTS, TOM MOORE, SHEARER NAGEL
Fri. and Sat., Feb. 19 and 20
FIGHTING YOUTH

If men fell in love with clothes, Dan’! Cupid would have an easy time with our stock of spring suits. Each year for thirty years we've improved the variety and attractiveness of our stock---1926 is no exception. In all our days we've never seen such smart patterns---such easy-fitting models---such fine quality. Your mistake if you don’t come down and see them.

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.