THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1926

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Caldwell Withers

Three games played and three placed in the right column! The victory over Presbyterian College last Saturday was the fourth
straight win for the Wildcats and makes the series now stand at Davidson 6 and P. C. 2, one game
being a tie. If the Wildcats can keep up the excellent defense work that was displayed in the P. C.
contest, they should give an unusually good account of themselves this season. The Davidson backfield has been considered strong since
the opening of school, but the ability of the line to hold in crucial moments had not really been tested
until Saturday.

Lincoln played a bang-up game at tackle. Handicapped by a broken nose, big “Abe” often tore the P. C. first
defense to pieces. He was probably even stronger on the defensive, nailing a Presbyterian runner many times before his interference
could form. McColgan, starting his first varsity game, gave a good account of himself at guard. While not playing a
spectacular game, he was fighting hard on every play and stopped many a P. C. plunge.

Jack Stamps, the Blue Hose quarter, is the best triple threat man Davidson has played against this season. He outkicked
Grey by several yards, carried the burden of the P. C. attack via the air route, and gained more yardage
in proportion to the times he ran than any other player on the field. His defensive work was also of
high order.

Hogrefe, fleet half of the Clinton team, is credited with the longest run of the day, a return of a
punt for 30 yards. Stamps got the longest run from scrimmage, 13 yards. He also made the longest punt, 70
yards. The Presbyterian captain, Griffith, fought hard all the way through the contest, and many times gave the Davidson offensive
a rude jolt.

The present Junior class won the series last year, not losing a single game. The coach has about 15 men
to choose from, several of whom played on the championship team of last autumn.

Presbyterian College Bows to Davidson in Rock Hill Classic, 3 to 0

Wildcats Score Early in Second Quarter of Game
Stamps, Griffith, Kirven, Lincoln, Leggette, and Grey Play Stellar Ball Throughout

The Davidson Wildcats were again victorious over the Blue Stockings of Presbyterian College last Saturday in Rock Hill. The win
of the Davidson team was the fourth straight victory over the South Carolina team, and the second win in four
years by the same score, 3 to 0. Early in the second quarter, Dick Grey...

Guilford Quakers to Play Wildcats

The Guilford Quakers, who come to Davidson Saturday for a game with the Wildcats, will bring a team composed of
big men. The Guilford team is said to be in fine condition due to a rest which has extended two
weeks. The last game they played was Saturday a week ago, when they went down in defeat before Duke University.
Due to the forward passing of the Duke team, this defeat was to the tune of 32 to 0. The
Quakers held the Blue Devils to a scoreless tie in the first quarter but were weak in breaking up the
passes of the Duke team.

The outstanding player on the Guilford team is Beatty, their quarterback. In the Duke game, he was the star for
the Guilford team, playing a hard game and backing up his line in fine style. The Guilford ends, Parish and
Kimrey, are the outstanding linesmen on the team, having the knack of covering punts in a style similar to that
of the Davidson ends.

The Wildcats are in good shape after the hard game with P. C. While several men on the squad are
bruised and sore, there are no serious injuries. Captain Wells and “Sook” Boggs will be eligible to play after missing
the last two games. The game last year resulted in a 26 to 0 victory for Davidson. Coach Younger started
his second team which gained at will against the Quakers and scored all the points. The first team was unable
to do anything against the fighting Guilford team and the “All Americans” were called into service and finished the game.
While Coach Younger has not announced any plan, it is thought that the entire squad will see action with the
first stringers getting a rest for the game with State next Thursday.

The prospective line-up and positions are:
Davidson, Position, Guilford.
Pitkin, LE, Parish
Ritchie, LT, Lindley
McColgan, LG, Hoyle
McConnell, C, Turner
Mitchell, RG, Tew
Bittol, RT, Hughes
Bohannon, RE, Marshall
Sappenfield, QB, Beatty (c)
Wells, LH, White
Grey, RH, Roan
Roberson, FB, Kimrey

Just what tennis material the Freshmen have to offer will be demonstrated this week and next in their annual fall
tournament. Halyerstadt, Johnston, and several others have flashed real form on the courts so far this season.

Class basketball has gotten under way at last. The four teams have been practicing for a week and are fast
rounding into shape. As has been the custom in the past, varsity letter men are coaching the several squads. Captain-elect
Anderson is drilling the Freshmen; Ben Wilson, lanky center of last year, directs the destiny of the Sophs, and John
Simpson is the coach of the Juniors. The Coach of the Seniors has not been selected yet.

The strength of Guilford, Davidson's opponent for this Saturday, is not expected to make the Wildcats display any plays they
may be hiding from scouts. Last year the second team played most of the game with the Quakers. When Coach
Younger gave the varsity a chance to limber up, they could not pierce the Guilford defense and were jerked from
the game.

Baptists of two states will clash this Saturday when Furman and Wake Forest meet. The strength of these two teams
was fully demonstrated last week when Furman smashed her way to an overwhelming victory over N. C. State and the
Deacons ran up a top-heavy score against Wofford.

CLASS BASKETBALL

The Class Basketball Schedule is as follows:
Tues., Oct. 5—Sophs vs. Seniors.
Fri., Oct. 8—Juniors vs. Fresh.
Mon., Oct. 11—Sophs vs. Fresh.
Wed., Oct. 13—Seniors vs. Juniors.
Fri., Oct. 15—Sophs vs. Juniors.
Mon., Oct. 18—Fresh vs. Seniors.
Wed., Oct. 20—Sophs vs. Seniors.
Fri., Oct. 22—Juniors vs. Fresh.
Mon., Oct. 25—Seniors vs. Juniors.
Wed., Oct. 27—Sophs vs. Juniors.
Fri., Oct. 29—Fresh vs. Juniors.
Mon., Nov. 1—Sophs vs. Fresh.

The winner will be determined on a percentage basis.

With their first game only about 10 days off, the Freshman football squad is being driven to the limit by
Coach Mattox. “Monk” has excellent material under his guidance and a real contest is expected when Coach Norman brings his
Yearling Furman team to the Hill on the 16th. The little Hurricane gave the Wildkittens a severe drubbing last fall
at Greenville. Many of the same fresh team are playing first-class ball on the Furman varsity now.

Class Basketball Hotly ContestedThe oval through P. C.’s goal posts for the margin of victory. Adding color to the colorful
occasion were 1,800 Winthrop College girls, on whose athletic field the contest was staged. The support of the girls was
about evenly divided throughout the game, and both colleges had a goodly number of students and alumni on hand to
cheer the team of their choice. The game was one of the hardest fought. The first quarter saw Davidson with
a distinct advantage over the Presbyterians, and the Red and Black had the ball deep in the opponent’s territory many
times. Under the able direction of Ed Wilson, the Davidson team, through several beautiful dashes by Grey and Leggette, carried
the ball to the 45-yard line. Wilson caught P. C. off guard when he called for a kick, Grey sending
the pigskin to the one-yard marker. Stamps soon punted out of bounds to the 40-yard line. Davidson made two first
downs, carrying the ball to the nine-yard line, and Grey dropped back and sent the oval through the posts for
the only score of the game. Several other times during the first half did Davidson threaten, but the P. C.
defense tightened and Stamps kicked out of danger. About the middle of the first quarter, Davidson took Stamps’ punt on
the 40-yard line and in two first downs carried the ball within 10 yards of the goal. Three line plays
failed, and a pass, Wilson to Grey, netted nine yards, but the ball went over to P. C. Stamps, Blue
Hose quarter, played a stellar game for the South Carolinians. He ran his team excellently; and the few occasions that
he himself carried the ball gained consistently. His passes were quick, fast and deadly, several more would have been completed
had it not been for the superb work of the Davidson backfield in breaking them up. For the major portion
of the time he was in the game, Leggette bore the brunt of the Davidson attack. The hard-driving Wildcat back
often tore gaping holes in the Presbyterian line for good gains. The work of Lincoln, in the Davidson line, deserves
mention. On several occasions the lanky tackle would smash P. C. plays before they could get under way and was
a terror in getting down under punts. Wilson and Hogrefe, in the Blue Hose (Continued on page 6)

His space will be used during the session of 1926-27 to introduce to readers of the Davidsonian members of the
Faculty of UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY RICHMOND, VA and other interesting persons.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP The Most Convenient For Davidson Men

The class basketball series, which is the leading interclass athletic activity of the college, opens this week with unusual rivalry.
Every team bids fair to give hard battles and to fight for first place. The Freshmen, as usual, are the
dark horses of the race, and not much can be told about the material they will have until further practice
has been held. The Freshmen usually allow their faint hearts to keep them from playing the game of which they
are competent. Under the direction of Coach Tom Anderson, they should turn out a good team. The Sophomores have been
in a habit of winning the series for the past two years as they have the advantage of having played
through a season together. Hunt, Gilmore, and Sturdevant are showing up well in practice. Ben Wilson coaches this team. The
Juniors will probably have a team that should finish near first place if they come through like they should. Milner,
Calhoun, MacAulay, and Withers should form a nucleus for a good team as they have all had experience and are
fast men. They are under the tutorship of John Simpson. The Seniors had a good team last year and most
of them are still eligible and should go far in the series. Hudgins, Calhoun, Vaughn, and Womack are showing form
in the practice grinds. As a whole, the class teams are made up of good men and this series promises
to be the closest and best for the past few years. A. C. McIntyre, of the class of '28, is
also in St. Louis, Mo.

Wrestling Team to Commence Practice

The prospects for a good wrestling team this year are not entirely bright in spite of the fact that there
are five lettermen back, namely: Frierson, Davis, Estridge, Crinkley, and Mauldin. There are few trained men in the heavy-weights and
Mauldin, the most promising heavy-weight, may be out because of a bad shoulder and torn ligament. He is able to
play football but this will handicap him in wrestling. The services of such men will be hard to develop men
to fill their places. Captain Weems, who distinguished himself in wrestling at the U. S. Military Academy, and coach of
the Davidson squad for three years, will have charge this year. He will endeavor to develop such men as Flythe,
King, Harold, Bailey, Harrel, Regen, and Cromartie. Professor Wood has authorized the expenditure of $225 toward the reconstruction of old
and the buying of new equipment. The old mats are being repaired by the Lawing Mattress Factory, of Charlotte, and
should be ready by the middle of the month. This equipment with the splendid new mats and covers and the
spacious wrestling room now available will give Davidson the best wrestling facilities in the state. For the first time in
the history of wrestling at Davidson, there will be a Freshman wrestling team. Several meets are pending and there is
a possibility of awarding monograms to those who make the team. Freshmen will also be eligible for the West Point
meet. The schedule is the stiffest on record and is as follows:

Concord “Y”—Pending.
State at Davidson—January 15.
Army at West Point—February 5.
Duke at Davidson—February 12.
V. P. I. at Davidson—February 19.
U. N. C. at Davidson—Date pending.

Another game of interest in the Carolinas is the game between the Universities of the two states. South Carolina upset
the dope and beat Maryland 12 to 0 Saturday and are generally favored to down the Tar Heels, who have
found Wake Forest and Tennessee rough going in the last two weeks.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

COMING MONDAY “LA BOHEME” WITH John Gilbert, Lillian Gish, Renee Adoree, Roy D’Arcy Directed by King Vidor, who made “The
Big Parade” NOTE: This picture played on Broadway many months as a $2 attraction

COMING MONDAY Adolph Menjou in “The Ace of Cads”

College Tuxedos $25.00 and New Fall Suits, Top Coats and Overcoats—everything that’s new and snappy for college men Fall Suits
$20.00 to $45.00 Top Coats and Overcoats $20.00 to $49.50 Men’s Furnishings at popular prices Watch for our showings on
the campus BELK BROTHERS CO. CHARLOTTE, N.C.
