THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 18, 1926

J.D. Bernhardt, Lenoir, N.C.
Rev. A.V. Gibson, Garland, N.C.
J.W. Baldwin, Maxton, N.C.
H.E. Clary, Greensboro, N.C.
S.H. Currie, Fayetteville, N.C.

Class of '24
A.M. Hurd, Rock Hill, S.C.
W.G. Houck, Salisbury, N.C.
Prof. J.H. Davis, Davidson, N.C.
Davis Robinson, Charlotte, N.C.
D.B. Walthall, Richmond, Va.
E.D. Brown, Jr., Greensboro, N.C.
Reuben Curdts, Greenville, S.C.
R.L. Price, Charlotte, N.C.

Class of '25
I.H. Patton, Jr., Sweetwater, Tenn.
E.K. Wilkinson, Jr., Mebane, N.C.
W.H. Carter, Mt. Airy, N.C.
M.W. Trawick, Charlotte, N.C.
W.A. McAulay, Concord, N.C.
L.E. Calhoun, N. Wilkesboro, N.C.
J.E. Holshouser, Blowing Rock, N.C.
A.H. Mebane, Jr., Mebane, N.C.
J.D. Laws, Columbus, Miss.
O.P. Patterson, Spring Hope, N.C.
W.A. Patterson, Spring Hope, N.C.
C.M.S. McIlwaine, Chattanooga, Tenn.
J.B. Hall, Charlotte, N.C.
Albert Simpson, Washington, Ga.
Henry Townsend, Blenheim, N.C.
M. Wells, Godwin, N.C.
C.C. McMillan, Fayetteville, N.C.
C.M. Brown, Winston-Salem, N.C.
R.W. Walker, Salisbury, N.C.

Class of '26
W.I. Howell, Oxford, N.C.
B.U. Ratchford, Duke University.
A.Y. Bowie, Crossnore, N.C.
R.W. Graves, Rome, Ga.
R.B. Parks, Rome, Ga.
P.F. Causey, Greensboro, N.C.
F.T. Franklin, Columbia, S.C.
W.S. Horton, Clarkton, N.C.
Frederick Smith, Gastonia, N.C.
T. Pullen, Burgaw, N.C.
W.A. Murray, Jr., Charlotte, N.C.
D.G. Wilson, Rock Hill, S.C.
H.Y. Alexander, Derita, N.C.
T.Z. Baker, Jacksonville, Fla.
T.I. Baker, Jacksonville, Fla.
D.M. McComb, Hickory, N.C.
L.B. Crayton, Charlotte, N.C.
M.P. Speir, Charlotte, N.C.
L.B. Huie, Charlotte, N.C.
H.L. Vance, Charlotte, N.C.
A.S. Jones, Salisbury, N.C.
E.C. Kugler, Marion, N.C.

Mr. and Mrs. J.M. Barnette, of Clover, S.C., are visiting Mrs. Barnette’s father, Mr. S.L. Cowan.
Dr. W.L. Lingle, brother of Dr. Lingle, visited here this weekend.

DRINK NuGrape
A FLAVOR YOU CAN'T FORGET
NuGrape Bottling Co.
417 Dowd Road
Phone 5776
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

NOVEMBER ISSUE OF
Edgar Allan Poe laid the cornerstone
contents
noticing the
magazine
realized
unconsciously, especially when they turn chiefly upon
anything;
indication,
donym and opens the first number of the new monthly with a short story of the
essay
exaggerated vignette of the gloom so oft-
articles come in small packages.” Mr.
the beginning of his school year, exhibits
Martin’s “Realization,” a seven-verse
several well-chosen analogies, such as:
“The roses are whiter than the walls:
his sweetheart, proves excellence without the streaks of dirt.”

PRESS
MAGAZINE
for a school of mystery writers. Conant
(Continued from page 1)
Doyle in England; and Arthur B. Reeves
I cannot but pay attention to the few advertisements which do appear. Who, world today.
when, where, what, and by whom—I dis-
Mr. Browne McQueen presents in “Walker-In-Shadow” an almost unassailable mystery tale after the manner of Poe. There is a remarkable
singleness of effect, from the first sentence through the last. Like Poe, Mr. McQueen stresses plot rather than character portrayal.
“Walker-In-Shadow” is by all odds the most polished and finished selection in the November issue. It lacks one element—originality. Mr.
Ogden molds into a charming new setting the Epicurean philosophy of Omar Khayyam. “Beyond,” his prose drama, has an ordinary
physical background and considers but two characters. But the psychological action, based upon the consequences of Freudian practices in modern
college life, is the whole play.

cover all these points included with a list of on one page. And now, after a view of the library,
to give the a private skipping glance through the entire contents will be in order since I am making the
acquaintance of a new friend. spacing, frontispiece, a unity or college I am ready inspection.

discrimination, and material all but have ever difference there is in to even classical literature when it is poorly printed
and arranged, and when the same material is set down that is easily read? We sometimes select one particular book,
perhaps in preference to others of superior literary value because that book looks light and roomy. The treatment of Ben
Ingersol’s reflections on the after-life, with the sarcastic outcome of these reflections, lends somewhat the air of a late Celtic
one-act play to “Beyond.” Inclusion of a short play, a play of such a substantial nature as Mr. Ogden's, improves
the quality of “The Chameleon.”

“Sleep” has no depth either of emotion or thought. It does relate an interesting imaginary anecdote in an interesting manner.
The word choice is worth noting. Mr. Boggess has drawn material from his imagination and endowed it with a mark
of reality.

Mr. Flynn, a Sophomore, publishes his first poem, a lyric whose theme is Beauty. “By Alleniver” gives new expression to
a long-standing idea in English poetry—a poet's kinship with all nature. Perhaps the most original contribution to the first issue
of “The Chameleon” is Mr. L.D. Wharton’s light essay, “Superlatives.” His paradoxical application of the phrase “most beautiful” to the
indelible description of a squalid tourist camp is clever. A trite maxim would have it that “Good articles come in
small packages.” Mr. Cavell, presenting an exaggerated vignette of the gloom attendant upon a collegiate upperclassman’s first few days’ experience
at the beginning of his school year, exhibits several well-chosen analogies, such as: “The roses are whiter than the walls:
without the streaks of dirt.”

At places there is, however, a lack of smoothness in sentence structure. Mr. Caligan’s poems, a simple titled “Fancies From——”
fails to meet a requirement of versification. In the midst of end-rhyme lines is one verse that stands alone; the
fifth verse of the poem.lyric” and a collection of four sonnets, are composed in a more purely poetic diction than
any of the other poems published in the magazine. The thoughts developed by Mr. Caligan and Mr. James Gilme are
negligible in comparison with the real merit of his poems—harmony and elevation of tone and movement.

Mr. Wharton in his essay, though well written and dealing in a discerning manner with the subject of authorial tone,
is in reality a composite book review. Mr. Ogden wrote “To a Jester.” A longer poem by the same writer,
“Lucita,” resembles Browning's dramatic monologues. Making the reservation customary when drawing a parallelism between amateur and finished writing, I believe
Mr. Ogden’s “Lucita” should be considered a monologue worthy of comparison with Browning's “My Last Duchess.” “Lucita” first appeared in
the prose section.

Mr. McCutcheon and Mr. Austin show fine discretion in the poems they have selected for translation. The average college man
lacks either poetic feeling or linguistic skill, or often both; and consequently fails to appreciate poems in a foreign tongue.
Mr. Austin’s translation is from Spanish literature; Mr. McCutcheon’s from German. Both are love poems.

A short editorial, judiciously placed at the end of the literary contributions, contains in a few paragraphs a survey of
the derogatory forces in college magazine work. The editor proposes, but in none too-clear-a-manner, to make “The Chameleon” a representative
publication, and yet maintain a high literary standard. Distribution of labor in compiling the book reviews adds variety to them.
But aren't there too many books considered? The department might be strengthened by limiting the number of reviews to about
half the present number. For reviews are not of interest to so many readers as are essays, poems, and short
stories.

One shameful, childish mistake is the extremely sarcastic notice of other college journals found under “Exchanges.” I suggest, at the
suggestion of others as well as on my own part, that the criticisms be constructive and gentlemanly. Light essays, of
a humorous trend but dignified in treatment and style, would certainly put even more zest in an already excellent magazine.
No doubt the above appraisals are in spots too flowery and much too high, but the magazine seems to have
been injected with new life and vigor. Davidson men look to the bringing up of a genuine revival in Davidson
literary interest under the direction and encouragement of the magazine.

To conclude the program, the audience sang “O Davidson” in unison with the Glee Club.

HILARIOUS PROGRAM
(Continued from page 1)

the actors were the Symphony Orchestra. This was followed by several numbers by the Quartet. Next, came the first stunt
on the program, that of the Junior Class. Though few in number, the stunt was one of the best on
the program. Bud Guthrie and Jimmie McAlister enacted quite realistically, and naturally it seemed, the “Shooting of Dan McGrew.” The
next number was rendered by the Glee Club in their first public performance of the year. They sang several numbers,
among which were “Keep on Hopin’” and “College Medley.” After several delightful selections by the Mandolin and Guitar Club, the
Freshmen made their debut as entertainers by a series of clever take-offs on upper classmen prominent on the campus.

This week, years ago, was a milestone in the Literary Society work at Davidson. At the regular meeting of the
Eumanean, plans were made for the forming of a new society. After a hot debate, the Eu decided to give
support to the new society. All members of the Eu who wished to help the new society were given honorable
dismissal. At the first meeting of the new Pandenic, the following Monday, these officers were elected: President, J. P. Price;
Vice-President, W. A. Gamble; Secretary, M. R. Doubles. The new society’s work started off with a boom, and as we
know, the society has now developed into a strong society.

Following the Freshman stunt, a most delightful part of the program was rendered by Ed Wilson, who sang several popular
songs, accompanied at the piano by H. R. Mobley. Ed was received royally, as he was two years ago while
on the Glee Club trip. The next stunt was presented by the sophomores. This stunt consisted of a series of
acts, the most aesthetic of which was that of the six petite chorus girls, led by the dainty Miss John
Q. Dickinson. The “Wildcat Serenaders” were also received with waves of applause in their first public performance in Davidson this
year. After their cordial welcome, the Senior stunt was presented, which was of a darker nature than the preceding ones,
but seemed to the eye at least. There was keen rivalry among the classes concerning their respective stunts, each striving
to out-do the others, although no prize was given for the best stunt.

The last feature of the program was a one-act play presented by the Red and Black Masquers. This play, “Ten
Days,” was written by Bob Covington. All the plays enacted by the club are written by students of the college
or some member of the faculty interested in dramatics.
