THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 31, 1926

One Hundred and Two Degrees To Be Conferred at Exercises

The following is a list of the men who will receive their diplomas at the ninetieth Commencement of Davidson College, on next Wednesday morning, June 2. Several honorary degrees and one certificate will be conferred at this time.

Doctor of Divinity
Walter Raleigh Coppedge.
John Edwin Purcell.
Lacy LeGrand Little.

Doctor of Laws
Charles Edward Diehl.
John Reynard Todd.
Wade Hampton Harris.
Alfred Moore Scales.

Doctor of Pedagogy
Marcus Cicero Stephens Noble.

Doctor of Science
Andrew Johnson Crowell.

Master of Arts
William Minor Gracey, Jr.
James Paisley Hendrix.

Bachelor of Arts
Henry Macmillan Alexander.
Harry Young Alexander.
Wade Hampton Allison, Jr.
Walter Louis Baker.
Thomas Calhoun Barr.
John Clyde Barrington, Jr.
Alexander Yancey Bowie.
John Walter Bracy.
Charles Louis Bragaw.
Otis Lynch Brenner.
Samuel Wood Brown.
Harold Samuel Burke.
Edward Samuel Christenbury.
Alton Bennett Claytor.
Thomas Guy Coltrane, Jr.
John Matthew Cooke, Jr.
Lucius Linton Deck.
Glenn Murray Eddington.
Forrest Treadwell Franklin.
Joseph Marion Garrison.
Julius Lee Hall, Jr.
Aaron Hayden Hollingsworth, Jr.
Clarence Eustice Houston, Jr.
Hampden Clisby Lawson.
Thomas Seay Lawson.
Alfred Cornelius Lindley.
William Banks Long.
Walter Hiram Lynch, Jr.
Charles Raymond McCarty.
William Ernest Milton.
Chester Franklin Monk.
James Erskine Moore.
William Kellam Oden.
Edward Asbury O'Neal.
Roland Brice Parker.
Charles Dowell Patterson.
Edwin Kesley Regen.
Alfred Smyre Robinson.
Harry Lee Shaw, Jr.
Willis Brooks Sloan.
Conrad Frederick Smith.
George White Smith.
William Theodore Spencer.
Harry Lee Vance.
Robert Alton Wilkinson.
Archie Brown Williford.
David Gibson Wilson.
Maurice Clark Yeargan.

Bachelor of Science
William Speight Adams, Jr.
Frank Wilson Alford.
Julius William Anderson.
James Mourning Appleby.
Thompson Simkins Baker.
John Douglas Brown.
William Donald Cox.
Miles Clark Davis.
James Jennings Earnhardt.
William Hunter Fitts, Jr.
William Simpson Glenn, Jr.
Robert Williams Graves.
William Stewart Horton.
William Ira Howell, Jr.

(Continued on page 7)

Senior Class Largest In History of School

Ninety-Two Men of ’26 to Receive Diplomas Wednesday

The 92 men who will receive degrees from Davidson College on June 2 represent the largest class that has ever graduated from Davidson, and the number finishing this year is quite a contrast to that of only a few years ago. Following a slump after the war, there were but 28 men finishing in 1919, but since that date, there has been a gradual increase until the class of 1926 is almost three times the size of six years ago. In 1920, 40 students won their diplomas, 53 were awarded sheepskins in 1921, 79 this coveted honor in 1922, while the following year saw a slight decrease when only 77 men were granted degrees. This was increased in 1924 to 81 men, while last year four additional ones were added, giving the class a total of 85 graduates. This year's number will accordingly exceed that by seven students, though three of these will be granted diplomas for work which was completed last summer or in the fall term.

Three Plays To Be Given

The Davidson Players will present three one-act plays in Shearer Hall tonight at 8:30 o'clock. Commencement visitors will have the opportunity of seeing these talented young artists in the presentation of two plays written by members of the club, and one play by an anonymous author. The entire casts are composed of college students and young ladies of the town.

The three plays to be given are: Ellen, written by Prof. E. J. Erwin and D. M. Currie; Tailor-Made, by Frederick Smith; and The Real Mr. Q., whose author is unknown. The first play was presented on the local stage at a performance last spring. The second one was first given here at a mid-winter performance, and the last-mentioned was first shown at the annual stunt night held last fall.

Ellen is a simple story of mountain life where clever chicanery and moonshining is intermingled with devout religious and personal feelings. Charlie Williams, a self-styled convert to the army of the Lord, tries to win Ellen's love although he is at the moment trying to entrap her father, Bud Bowman, who runs a still across the creek. Ellen has tried to dissuade her father from the illegal traffic but he does not listen to her pleas nor to her pitiful story of privation due to his lack of support. Bud is apprehended and the play ends with Ellen deserted by all.

The comedy hit of the year is Tailor-Made, which is without a dull moment from start to finish. The story centers around the old village tailor, played by Frederick Smith, the author, and his successful attempt to effect a reconciliation between Dorothy Grayson, the village belle, and her lover, Bob Weston. The means he resorts to are laughable in the extreme, as is the continual chatter of Captain Billy Harwood, late of the Confederate forces, which character is played by Linton Deck.

The Real Mr. Q., a startling mystery play, is well acted by Wood Brown, Val Guthery, and Linton Deck. The story centers around the efforts of a bunch of crooks to steal some valuable instruments from a doctor's office. A surprising climax is revealed. All the characters play their parts almost to perfection.

The casts of the three plays are as follows:

Ellen
Bud Bowman - Ben Ratchford
Charlie Williams - James Hall
Ellen Bowman - Miss Johnsie Shelton
Harris - Henry Powell
Thorpe - Tyre Dillard

TAILOR-MADE
Eb Pashly - Frederick Smith
Captain Billy Harwood - Linton Deck
Bob Weston - Frank Wilkinson
Dorothy Grayson - Miss Ruth Erwin
Betty Parks - Miss Elizabeth Thompson

THE REAL MR. Q.Q The Doctor 2s es The Detective The Thief Val Guthery Linton Deck

SENIORS PRESENT GIFT
(Continued from page 1)

Beta Kappa, member of honorary fraternity council, and student assistant in Law. Pullen, of Burgaw, N. C., since coming to Davidson has won quite a reputation as an orator. He is a member of the Metrophilian Literary society, winner of both the Fresh-Soph declaimer’s and debater’s medals, and the Junior-Senior debater's medal. He is also student assistant in Economics. With such speakers on the program, this year’s Class Day exercises should prove exceedingly interesting. If the weather permits, the members of the Senior class will be seated on the west steps of the library while the visitors and spectators will sit and stand on the campus lawn immediately adjacent thereto. It is hoped that everyone on the hill at that time will make an especial effort to be present for these exercises, for it is really the part of Commencement in which the Seniors take the most interest and pride.

RECEPTION GIVEN
(Continued from page 1)

Other Events

Tonight the presentation of three plays by the Dramatic Club will mark another social event and this will be followed by a reception given by the eleven fraternities on the Davidson campus, these groups opening their halls or houses to their friends and their guests. Perhaps the biggest affair of commencement will be tomorrow, when the alumni luncheon will gather together to decide some important matters.

Miss Nancy Grey will return home within a few days from Shelby, N. C., where she is teaching. Miss Mary Hamilton has returned from Converse College where she was in school this year.

Top: Sign at the opening of the “Davidson College Highway.” Center: One of the golf holes. Bottom: Scene at the gulleys.

National Heads of Two Honor Frats Are of ’26
Appleby and Graves Distinctly Honored—Others of Class Are Recognized

Several members of the class of '26 have been officers in national and state organizations during their college career. J. M. Appleby is the Worthy Grand Alchemist of Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary chemical fraternity. This fraternity was founded at Davidson in 1920 and there are now seven chapters located, in the order of their installation, at Davidson, N. C. State College, University of Florida, Johns Hopkins, Alabama Polytechnic Institute, University of Alabama, and Wake Forest. Gamma Sigma Epsilon is strictly an honor fraternity designed to encourage the study of chemistry among undergraduate students in first-class colleges. It is the only honorary fraternity in chemistry at present operating in that field, the two others in existence being for the promotion of research work among graduate students. A quarterly magazine is published under the name of “The Ray.” The local chapter has been very active this past year and at the regular meetings, very interesting papers have been presented on chemical subjects which have served to stimulate interest. The second national convention was held at Davidson this year at which time a very definite program was undertaken for the extension of the fraternity.

R. W. Graves is national president of Sigma Pi Sigma honorary fraternity. This society was formed at Davidson in 1921 for the promotion of the study of Physics among undergraduates in first-class colleges. There are now five chapters. R. W. Graves is one of the most distinguished students of Physics in the fraternity. He has made very remarkable grades in his courses, having made 100 two times, and 99 once. In addition to his Physics grades, his other grades have been high. His average for the year was the highest in the history of the college.

Parker is national vice-president of The Davidson chapter of the International Relations Clubs. This organization was formed in November 1914, the earliest period of its history when the minds of the people were fresh with the outrages of the World War. This organization tries to mold the minds of the present generation in the paths of peace and studies the ways and means of averting war. It endeavors to foster a better understanding among the nations of the world. Many of the programs are devoted to studying other countries, their history, geography, and customs, thus enabling the nations to become more friendly toward each other. Among the schools which now have local clubs are: Converse, Brenau, Georgia Tech, Emory, Randolph-Macon, N. C. State, Duke, Carolina, Clemson, Furman, Wofford, S. Carolina, Peabody, Vanderbilt, U. Alabama, U. Florida, Judson, Coker, and Oglethorpe. This has been a natural growth and not a phenomenal development, and they continue their endeavor to create world peace through education of the minds of the ones who will lead in the future, and through a better understanding among the nations of the world.

W. E. Milton was vice-president of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association. It was under the auspices of The Davidsonian that this association was formed about 1918. Twice since the class of ‘26 has been in school, The Davidsonian has been voted the best college newspaper in the state.

G. M. Eddington was secretary of the North Carolina Volunteer Union for the past year. This organization was formed for the promotion of interest in foreign missions. It is composed of those who have offered their lives to this service, and aims to make them acquainted with each other and help them become better fitted for their work. It fosters education of its members along the lines of the customs, needs, and habits of those whom they will serve in their life work.

A. Y. Bowie is chairman for the state of the Student Friendship Commission in the Y. M. C. A. This is a very important position and calls for a great deal of secretarial work on the part of the man who fills the place.

Miss Cornelia Shaw will make an extended tour of Palestine, Egypt, and Jugo-Slavia during the summer months. Mrs. W. R. Grey will join her husband in Paris for a tour of parts of Europe this summer. Miss Sarah Barnette will return from N. C. C. W. within the next few days.