Vol. XIV FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 16, 1926 No. 14

DAVIDSON GETS $100,000 FOR CHAMBERS

Davidson Debaters Win Meets from V. P. I. and Washington University

Davis and McCutchen Win From Strong Teams

UNANIMOUS DECISIONS

Subject of Debate is Modification of Volstead Act—Much Interest Shown

The debating teams of Davidson College have made a better start this year, prospects a more successful year than ever
before in the history of the college. Only two debates have been held so far, and both of these were
won by a three to nothing vote. The team which has spoken at these two debates is composed of C.
G. Davis and T. G. McCutcheon. The two meets have been with V. P. I., on December 9th, and with
George Washington University, on December 13th. The team deserves special credit and praise for winning the V. P. I. debate,
because of the fact that the debate was held away from the Davidson campus, and, in spite of this fact,
the Davidson team won by a unanimous vote of the judges. The Davidson-George Washington debate was held at Davidson, and
was especially interesting and well delivered. The subject of this debate was, “Resolved, That the Volstead Act should be amended
so as to allow the sale of light wines and beer.” The Davidson team upheld the negative side of the
question. The members of the visiting team were Mr. Edward Gallagher and Mr. J. H. Vesey. Both teams were especially
well prepared on the subject, and some very (Continued on page 2)

SANITY RARE COVER

All who are in any way attached to members of the opposite sex who are artistically inclined, lend an ear
to this announcement and request. Each year the members of the Junior class endeavor to find a new and pleasing
cover design for their annual magazine, Sanity Rare, which is published as an aid to Junior speaking. Since there are
no artists of exceptional ability in school, at present, the class has been forced to search for such a design
among outside sources. All students who know of anyone who is able to make a suitable design and who would
be interested in presenting one are requested to secure the same from them and turn them over to Caldwell Withers,
editor-in-chief of the publication.

Yuletide Comes to Gladden Spirit of Oppressed Student

Christmas! How thankful we are to hear the very word itself! Mere mention of “Christmas” kindles a gentle and genial
fire in the coldest of hearts. Three hundred and sixty-four days of the year man crawls about at his serious
tasks of life. He pretends to be above the frivolities so gloriously associated with wholesome, effervescent childhood. With what happy
alchemy is that aloofness swept aside by warmth; gaiety? that seriousness by (Continued on page 6)

Professors Watts and Harding Will Read Papers at Linguist Conventions

Davidson will be represented by two of the members of its faculty in the annual meetings of two of the
most highly intellectual associations of America, which meet at Harvard University during the latter days of this month. Dr. C.
R. Harding will go as a member of the American Philological Association and Prof. George B. Watts will go representing
the Modern Language Association of America. These two associations are holding their annual meetings in conjunction with the Archaeological Institute
of America, College Art Association of America, and Linguistic Society of America. Although the organization of these societies is entirely
different, their purposes are all somewhat along the same line, hence the various meetings are being held at the same
place at the same time. Dr. Harding is on the program of the fifty-eighth annual meeting of the American Philological
Association to be held at Harvard University, December 28-30. On the afternoon of the third day of the convention, Dr.
Harding will present a paper to the society of which he is a member, in joint session with the Linguistic
Society of America, on “Subsequent Action Expressed by the Aorist Participle.” The Modern Language Association will begin its forty-third meeting
a day later than the American Philological Association. It is on the second day of this meeting that Professor Watts
will read his paper, “The Unpublished Works of Racine.” In addition to his voluminous published works, Louis (Continued on page
2)

Mrs. Currie Passes Away at Davidson

Last Wednesday afternoon Mrs. Violet Womack Currie, 74, widow of the late Rev. James L. Currie, and mother of Prof.
A. Currie, died suddenly at her home in town, after being slightly ill for only a few hours. Besides Professor
Currie, she is survived by two other sons, James W. Currie, of Raeford, Va., and Thomas K. Currie, of Richmond,
Va., secretary-treasurer of the Alumni Association, and by a niece, Mrs. L. B. Vreeland, of Charlotte. Mrs. Currie was born
in Prince Edward County, Virginia, but had made her home in Davidson for the past 30 years, where she moved
to educate her sons. During the time in which she lived here, she made many friends and endeared herself to
hundreds of students and townspeople. Funeral services were conducted at the home on Friday morning, by Dr. C. M. Richards,
her friend and pastor for many years. Interment was made in the local cemetery, where a large number of faculty
members and students attended. At the student body meeting after chapel Thursday morning, a motion was made and passed that
a floral wreath be sent to the family from the student body, the expense incurred by this to be taken
care of by a spe- (Continued on page 5)

Juniors to Stage First Minstrel Next Saturday Night in Shearer Hall

Wit and Mirth to Reign Supreme Saturday Night

MANY FEATURE ACTS

Program Divided Into Four Main Parts—Cast Picked From Whole Student Body

The plans for the Junior Minstrel to be held the night of Saturday, December 18th, have been completed and rehearsals
have been held every night of the past week. All reports from the rehearsal indicate that a thoroughly enjoyable and
delightful program will be presented. This minstrel will be presented in Shearer Hall right after the basketball game. The admission
price is 50 cents. The program of the minstrel will be divided into four parts. At present, there are pending
a final climax. Tyree Dillard will be the interlocutor with Bob Link, Joe McConnell, Ed. Wilson, Gordon McSwain, W. F.
Stigler, and Bobby Glenn as end men. The Davidson quartet has been practicing faithfully and several selections will be rendered.
Albert Halverstadt will render a very interesting specialty, while the entire cast has been working in that capacity since they
(Continued on page 5)

Glee Club to Present Program at Rock Hill

D. C. Wilson, President of Club Last Year, Sponsors Program Friday Night

The Davidson College Glee Club will make a trip to Rock Hill on Friday, December 17th. This trip is being
sponsored by the Alumni at Rock Hill, under the direction of D. C. Wilson, president of last year’s Glee Club.pieces.
The Jazz Orchestra, consisting of 10 pieces, and the Symphony Orchestra, consisting of 12 pieces, will both be on this
trip. It is doubtful yet whether or not the Comedy Skit will be taken. If this can be taken, it
will add a great deal of spice and interest to the program. The prospects for the club are very bright.
Mrs. Baker has complimented the members highly on several occasions and has been quoted as stating that the prospects for
this year are brighter than they have been at any time since she has been here. A longer trip to
be taken after examinations is being planned. The route of this trip will be through Virginia and the northern part
of North Carolina. Stops will be made and programs will be given at several girls’ colleges, including Hollins and Sweet
Briar. Programs will also be given at Winston-Salem, Durham, Greensboro, and Lexington. The long trip last year was made to
the South. Several colleges were visited on this trip also, and programs were given in several cities, Atlanta being the
southernmost point visited. The program to be given at Rock Hill this week and other similar programs which will be
given later will aid in getting the club into shape for the big trip of the year. The program to
be given at Rock Hill is as follows:

1. College Ties—Anonymous Glee Club.
2. Symphony Orchestra—T. H. Hamilton, director.

(Continued on page 6)

Rod McRae,

The new system of choosing managers was implemented this year. J. Lee Robinson, Jr. has been elected as manager of
the 1927 Davidson College football team. All three candidates were assistant managers during the past season. This election was the
first one held under the new system, where the lettermen select the managers, as they are more acquainted with the
candidates' abilities.

BUILDING Work to Begin at Once On Completion of New Main Unit of Chambers $100,000 Additional Must Be Raised Among
Friends DONOR NOT DIVULGED Contract Will be Let for North Wing at Same Time—New Auditorium

Davidson College has received a gift of $100,000.00 within the last few days, Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the
institution, announced today. However, he was not at liberty to disclose the benefactor's identity, as the donor desired to remain
unknown. "This generous gift is the most significant individual donation in the history of Davidson," said Dr. Martin, "except for
the Maxwell Chambers legacy in 1854 and Mr. Duke's recent gift of a share in his endowment." The donation was
given for the primary purpose of assisting in the completion of the Chambers building, known as the "heart of Davidson,"
which was destroyed by fire in 1921. Following the fire, a campaign was started in 1922 to rebuild the structure.
By the fall of 1926, one section of the New Chambers was completed and occupied for the first time, representing
an expenditure of $200,000. Original plans called for $400,000 for the entire project.

(Continued on page 7)

Hancock and McQueen Are Elected Historians by Two Middle Classes

Christmas Vesper Services on Sunday

The Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service for the Sunday evening before the Christmas holidays is being planned, and every
effort is being made to make it the high spot in Y. M. C. A. services of the present year.
Like the corresponding meeting of last year, this will be a Christmas service. The service will be entirely in charge
of the students and will consist largely of music. The Glee Club is cooperating with the Y. M. C. A.
to make the service a success and will render several selections. The prominent quartet and orchestra will also have a
part in the program. There will also be responsive readings and songs in which everyone will participate. H. A. Cox
and John McRae will render selections on the violin. The quartet has prepared Christmas choruses. A special program containing Christmas
poetry, responsive readings, and an order of events has been printed for use at that time. A similar program was
used last year. Only one short talk will be on the program, with the students taking an active part in
all other numbers. Over 500 men attended the meeting held at this time last year, and an even larger crowd
is expected to be present at the meeting Sunday night.

At a meeting of the Junior Class last Monday morning, Wit Hancock was chosen historian of the class of 1928.
Hancock defeated Lingle on the last ballot by a small majority, J. G. Wharton having been eliminated on the first
ballot. Prior to the election, the class had decided to make the position of class historian permanent, so Hancock will
be the official historian for the next two years. Hancock has been prominent in literary circles since his arrival at
Davidson. He is a member of Delta Pi Kappa, an honorary fraternity, and is also on the staff of "Quips
and Cranks" as associate editor. Hancock is a member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity.

The Sophomore Class also elected their class historian during the past week. W. B. McQueen was chosen for this office.
In this election, only two men were nominated, McQueen and Dick Kane. McQueen won out in the election by the
close ballot of 58 to 52. McQueen has taken an active interest in literary work during the last two years,
being a member of the Reporters’ Club and a contributor to the Davidson College Magazine.

An error was made in the Junior Class meeting last Monday morning when it was stated that a class historian
was not elected last year. As a matter of fact, Caldwell Withers was chosen to serve his class in that
capacity, but due to some mistake, mention of this was omitted from the annual last year, as was the class
history which he wrote.

A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year
