THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1926

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Ciba Press Association
Southern Collegiate Association of Press
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF 1914
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Entered at the Post Office at Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH
Editor-in-Chief

HAROLD D. BURKE
Managing Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. BRANCH, L. D. WHARTON, F. K. BELL
Assistant Managing Editors
W. E. MILTON
Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER
Associate Editor
Y. BOWLES
Associate Editor
H. HOLLINS
Associate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN
Humorous Editor
J. B. EBB
Alumni Editor
H. L. SHELBY
Exchange Editor

H. D. BURKE
Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Subscription Manager
Assistant Subscription Manager

EDITORIAL

AN OPEN MIND

Educational circles have been stirred considerably here of late by the question of what really constitutes an education. The matter has been argued pro and con. Some adhere to the old-fashioned theories of education and others hope that some day a new era will come, bringing with it new ideas of instilling into the plastic minds of the young generation the foundational facets upon which an education is built.

The English and American systems of instruction have been fought over. Eminent college authorities in this country believe that a reversal of some of our rigid methods of teaching would offer more incentive for clearer thinking and for original research. We realize that many of our little methods of educating young men and young women are absurd and foolish, as well as a waste of time and money for both parties.

Casting aside all other assets of a person who presents himself at a college for a four-year course of education, if we find that he has that rare asset, an open mind, then we can be pretty sure that his education will amount to something. Given a fair amount of intelligence, a boy with an inquisitive and eager mind, one that can discern and weigh facts, can do more with the material laid before him than many with higher grades of intelligence but with visions that lie only along a straight and narrow path that another has trod.

There are three classes of students: those who cram facts into their heads until the latter are near the bursting point, and give this back to the professor on reviews and examinations, sometimes with interest and sometimes without. If this student has a well-polished memory he will probably be near the top of his class. The second type is he who idles along, picking the path of least resistance and easing through in the most accepted manner that is offered for those who think that a college degree is the Open Sesame to success and riches. This type generally is far below the remainder of his class. The third class is the one who does not stay in the well-worn rut with the rest. He may be termed the radical or what-not. He refuses to accept every statement as true because a man of undoubted wisdom spoke it. His thoughts decline to remain in the paths of convention and ease. He sometimes reads a book for parallel that the professor never assigns. He sometimes asks questions that start the rest of the class into gales of laughter. Many a time he is the object of ill-concealed pity or scorn. He doesn’t seem to fit in with the rest of the flock. More than likely his grade is not as high as the grind. But who has derived the most benefit from his college career? One of them is being taught to think but not as the others. The others are taught to think, but in molds that are fashioned for them lie their thoughts. They do not care to leave the way of convention and tradition and go chasing away just because they are merely dissatisfied with the explanation of a certain question.

What a privilege for a man to face the wide, beautiful world after graduation from college with a mind that is unbiased and open. How fortunate for one to be able to weigh facts and persons in the same mind—one that is untrammeled by fears or doubts of failure; to judge a person by what he really is rather than what others may think of him. Thus, if a college education is to mean anything, it should be expressed in the forming of the mind to receive impressions that will last and prove a benefit. Most of the things that we learn today will have passed away within the course of a very few years. If we learn only to memorize and to recite, then there is something radically wrong with our system of education. If we are taught what to think but not how to think, then it is high time that we should change our manner of learning it.

THE NATIONAL FLAG

If there is one thing that should command absolute respect on the Davidson campus, it is the flag of our country, the Star-Spangled Banner. To show disrespect to it and to the national anthem is to exhibit lack of patriotism and poor manners as well as to show ignorance of one of the first duties of a citizen. Some students here do not have the right attitude toward the colors, either through ignorance or idleness. But in any case hereafter, when the colors are displayed, or the national anthem is played, let’s show our love of country and respect for this symbol of democracy by standing at attention and uncovering, and if in uniform, by standing rigidly at salute.

AFTER SO LONG

The old Phi Gam hall, which has been recently fitted into a handsome social room for the benefit of all Davidson students, fills a much-needed place on the campus. For a number of years, the need of such a center has been apparent, but only the removal of the fraternity to a house out in town, has supplied the room. The Y. M. C. A. has spent considerable money in furnishing the rooms and the interior has been made very attractive. Numerous comfortable chairs are there for your convenience and a few selected periodicals and newspapers are on hand. The rooms are open at all hours and you are welcome. Especially during Junior Speaking will this prove a blessing to those students who, heretofore, have had no place in which they might entertain girls who are visitors on the hill. Certainly located as they are, these rooms can be used as a common meeting place during the holidays. Plans are on foot to procure a new Victrola to liven up things when conversation lags. Albert Hillhouse is to be commended for his untiring work in connection with the securing of this social room. Davidson students will have occasion to thank him in the future as the worth of this place becomes apparent.

NEEDED ADDITIONS

A change that we should like to see in our present curriculum is the addition of a course in elementary Latin for those who come to this college without any knowledge of this important classical language. Evidently, the present curriculum dates from the days when Latin was a part and parcel of every high school education, as much so as algebra or English. As it stands now, a minimum of three years of high school Latin is necessary before matriculation as a candidate for one of the courses leading to an A.B. degree. Everyone knows that of late years, Latin has been deposed as the main issue of high schools, and in most of them, certainly, it has been relegated to a back shelf. Lamentable as it may be, very few of the high school graduates are well prepared inLatin, and a large number have never studied it. Students entering Davidson, who wish a B.A. degree must necessarily take the course in Greek unless they have had three or four years of Latin. And we strongly suspect the Greek course here to be the cause of so many changing from a B.A. course to a course leading to the B.S. degree. Elementary Greek, Spanish, German, French and even English is taught here. Why is not Latin, one of the great foundation tongues of our language, given, so that one might start at the very beginning and engage upon a four-year course of it? Nothing would please us more than to see a one or two-year course in Journalism given here. It is true that Davidson cannot offer all the varied courses of a University, but such a course here would have an enthusiastic following because there is a good percentage of the student body interested in writing as a profession. Such a course would be very instructive and practical in every respect.

LATEST SONG HIT NO. 29368
The very latest is the Asthma Song, sung by Trade and Mark Smith, the big cough-drop men from Gumtown. The title is: “Yessir, ‘Ath’s ma Baby.”

A misused car is often a Miss-used car.

THE IDEAL MAN PERSON
The girls down at Converse are having one (censored) of a time finding the Ideal Man. This mysterious personage, more intangible than radio waves or college spirit, has not been discovered up till now except on paper and in the innermost recesses of those prim, girlish hearts no less at Converse. So far as wavy hair goes, number ten shoes and brown eyes, Count Davis would fill the part to perfection. 'Tis true he does not weigh 180 pounds, but he could carry three or four cakes of lead around in his pocket. “Hot” Westbrooks could fit the bill in other particulars too numerous to mention. All in all, they ought not to have any trouble in finding the mysterious Mr. X here.

Since the announcement has been made that Davidson will have a new movie emporium, demands have been pouring in to the management for reservations for dark corners during night and evening performances. Oh, yes. Junior Speaking—of course.

DOWN IN JAW’JA
The Glee Club boys had quite a peart time while in the little city of Gainesville. Between the fashion parade on the sidewalks, the hypnotized beauty in the show window and other attractions, there was a great strain on the eyes. Fresh Bradley noticed a monument erected by the Gainesville Humane Society several years ago. Upon inquiry, he found that some public-spirited citizen had supplied the funds to be used for putting blinders on the horses of the town. The direct cause of it all was a windy March with the Brenau girls downtown.

One of the lesser lights of the club was supporting the main building of the town watching the parade of the wooden soldiers on the sidewalks. A freshman standing nearby was smoking one of those old-fashioned cubebs that beats limburger cheese by a mile. Sniffing the smoking fag, the aforementioned person remarked in a tone of voice loud enough to be heard by several of the girls passing by: “Darned if I don’t smell punk!” One of the girls wheeled around and said in her prettiest manner, “Well, if you do, there’s a drug store on the corner that sells both soap and perfume.”

According to Don Marquis, College expects every man to do his daddy.

COLLEGIATE
Two dazzling eyes with baby stare,
Two ruby lips and shingled hair.
Two dancing feet, a shoulder sway,
A rippling laugh, a vamping way,
A crowd of boys, a social whirl,
And there you have The College Girl.

The above is the N. C. State’s Technician conception of that well-known menace to college men’s habits of study, the college co-ed. Below is the Keyhole’s conception of the typical collegiate:

Two sleepy eyes with mannish stare,
Moustached lips and larded hair.
Two Charlestoning dogs and a winning way,
A horsey laugh with bills to pay.
Strings of broken hearts but profound joy.
And there you have The College Boy.

DID HE GET CHILE
Wifie came home from her club at a late hour in the night in time to see hubby well soused, sitting on the front doorstep, playing with the doorknob as if he were getting paid for it.
“What in the world are you trying to do, Egbert?” she said.
“Don’t—hic—make any noise,” he gurgled. “I’m getting Pittsburgh.”

SO BIG
Those—big—sea—pound-Mississippi—River—catfish that Shad Shaddock has been telling about must have appeared to him in his dreams. That Mississippi swamp angel hair tonic that they drink down his way will make one see elephants where another sees only mice, they tell us.