THE DAVIDSONIAN; MAY 31, 1926

Senior Class Athletics Characterized by People as Best in Last Decade

Class of ’26 Has Been Represented in Every Phase of Sport Activity

LAIRD AND VANCE PROMINENT

Rating of Davidson Teams Has Risen Considerably in Past Few Years

One of the greatest features of the class of 1926 has been its athletes—men who have borne the brunt of
attack of foes of every nature, who have zealously fought against tremendous odds, who have won many victories, and who
have gone down in defeat manfully. It is the opinion not only of the class of 1926, but of many
others, that the present graduating class has given to Davidson some of the best men in the last decade. It
is seldom that a three-letter man can be found who is good in all three sports, and it is seldom
that a man, by his fight and spirit, even though far lighter than other contenders, wins berths over others.

The class of '26 has presented to Davidson two three-letter men, two winners of the Norris Trophy cup for the
best athlete at Davidson, and two all-state football men. When these men made the mythical eleven it was the first
time in several years that Davidson had placed a man on this team. Vance and Laird are unquestionably the best
that the class has for all-round athletes, and to make a distinction as to which one is best would be
difficult. Opinion seems to be that they are equal in their prowess and in their ability as athletes.

Laird is a three-letter man in football, basketball, and baseball. In basketball, he made his letter for four years, captaining
the team the last season. His position at this sport was forward. In football, Laird began in the backfield, playing
with the varsity his freshman year in several games, making a memorable touchdown against V. P. I, and then kicked
a goal to tie them. In the game with Georgia Tech that year, his toe was largely responsible for keeping
the score down. He was shifted to the line, however, playing center and tackle. In baseball, he has been one
of the mainstays on the pitching staff for the past three seasons, as well as playing in the outer gardens,
and occupying the hot corners some of last season.

Vance won his spurs in football, baseball, and wrestling. Particularly prominent was he in the first two named sports. Playing
a terrific game at guard, it is imagined that opponents did not relish the charge that he made. So brilliant
did he perform at guard, and such an outstanding game did he play for the last two years, that he
was a unanimous choice of all coaches in the state for guard on the mythical team. He played a fast,
clean, and telling game. Perhaps the most notable was in Charlotte against Clemson College, when the most frequent notation was,
“Vance throws Clemson player for three, five, or six-yard loss.” In the horsehide game, Vance was there with the goods,
leading the batting averages of the regular players for the last two years, hitting .400 per cent or more. He
played out in the pasture for two years before Coach Monk made him a backstop this past season. He was
one of the standbys in wrestling.

The greatest individual player good in one sport is Tom Baker. When he came to Davidson as a freshman, he
played one of the flank positions and was a sub end his sophomore year, going in for Davis or Faison.
The next year, Coach Monk shifted him to tackle, and that is where he won his laurels. Barely touching the
scales at 155 pounds, he proved a terror to many an opponent, and so persistent and consistent was he in
his playing that he was placed upon the all-state eleven his junior year, being described by one reporter as, “that
red-headed fire-eating Wildcat.” He was mentioned this past season by several coaches, but there were a number of good, heavy
tackles in the state.

There are three men whom the class of 1926 will claim, despite the fact that they will not graduate this
year. It was the fall of 1922 that they began their career at Davidson, and even though it will not
be possible to cast their final lot with the present graduating class, the latter will claim them as their own.
Nick Sappenfield was and is one of the best quarterbacks in the state, and but for the fact that he
is so light and unable to make much headway with the ball, he would have ousted Rackley from the all-state
position without much question. Rackley was a triple threat man, while Sappenfield’s greatest asset was the use of his head.
He broke his leg in the Elon game and did not have the chance to match wits with Rackley in
the Wake Forest game. Sappenfield is a clear-headed quarterback, and if playing with the Wildcats next year, his classmates will
watch the results with interest.

The captain of the past year’s team, Wick Black, will be claimed by '26. He can best be characterized by
the description, “that pile-driving, battering ram fullback from Davidson.” If a glance could be made through the reporters’ notes of
all the games, it would be seen that it was a rare thing for Davidson to lose a single inch
of ground when “Black back” was called. He was used as a substitute catcher on the varsity nine this year
and went in several times as a pinch-hitter, making a creditable showing. The new captain for 1927 is also from
the class of 1926, and thus it could be claimed that this class had furnished two captains. Wells is a
two-letter man, winning honors in football in the backfield, and on the mound or in the field in baseball. That
he is one of the hardest-driving Wildcats is evidenced by a statement from one of the opposing players, “I would
rather have anybody hit me than Wells.”

Baccalaureate Sermon Is Preached by Charlottean

Bishop E. A. Penick Addressed Students in Church Yesterday Morning—Large Crowd

The Right Rev. E. A. Penick, Episcopal bishop of the diocese of North Carolina, delivered the baccalaureate sermon to the
graduating class yesterday morning at 11 o'clock, in the church, the building being crowded at this time. Bishop Penick is
one of the youngest bishops in the southern states and has proved to be a capable one. He has been
at Davidson on previous occasions, and so impressed were his hearers that the college and senior class selected him to
deliver this sermon. He is a forceful, eloquent speaker, clear-thinking and able, and delivered to the class a splendid message.
(Editor's note: It is regretted that it was not possible to obtain Bishop Penick’s speech beforehand and publish it in
this Davidsonian.)

Valedictorian Honor Closely Contested

In one of the closest races of recent years, H. L. (Buck) Shaw won the coveted class valedictorian position over
A. H. Hollingsworth, Jr., who as second man received the salutatorian’s place. In his four years, Shaw averaged 96.28 while
Hollingsworth totaled 96.02. Shaw is one of the leading members of '26, having just completed a year as editor of
its annual. He is affiliated with Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, and Phi Beta Kappa, and the Pi Kappa Phi
social fraternity. He has served as president of his class in its Junior year and as student councilman. From the
beginning, he has beenRecognized scholar, Hillingsworth, as the retiring president, is a premier of the Y.M.C.A. and a member of
both Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. He is also one of the leaders of the student body. He
has served on the staff of both the Davidsonian and the Magazine. He is a commencement orator and one of
the best speakers in school.

Hillingsworth is also in the topmost tier of players. One of the most brilliant plays ever made by Wells was
when he tackled Rackley of Wake Forest, making a flying tackle, the impact carrying Rackley back five yards. Red, another
two-letter man, never occupied a regular position at tackle on the Wildcat line but was a ready substitute and relieved
the strain on several occasions. His best work was in track, where he was high point man in several meets.
Anderson participated in a diversity of events—hurdles, pole vault, and weight events.

As for basketball, Laird has already been mentioned. Another '26 member of the team was Huie, who until this year
had not made his letter but came through with two of them this year—an example of what "stickability" can do.
He played a forward position in the cage game and at times starred with his scoring. In baseball, he was
used frequently, being one of the nine men who made their letters in this sport the past season. Anderson was
on for a vault. He was captain.

Captain Frank Alford has proved his worth as a baseball player for the last three seasons. He pitched in prep
school but had trouble with his arm. At Davidson, he played the left field position in great style for three
years, being shifted to the receiver's place in the latter part of the season just passed. He was a good
hitter and slammed out several homers in his career. Oden and Kugler both made letters in baseball their junior year,
but the authorities cut the number down this year to only nine, and they did not receive one, though each
went into a number of games. Kugler has played first, second, and short, while Oden has done some twirling.

The Senior class had one other member on the track squad—Archie Williford, who was one of the distance runners. He
lacked one point of making his letter in that sport this year but won the honor his junior year. The
characteristic thing about his work was his persistent fighting to break the string until he would drop. He lacked the
spurt that might have given him his letter this year. Wood Brown made his letter in tennis this year, another
example of what a man can do if he consistently works. For three years he lobbed balls back and forth
across the net, and this year his reward came in winning a letter.

Thus has been given the work of each member of the class, all coordinated toward making Davidson have some good
teams in the field. It is believed that it is not averse to say that Davidson had a great football
team this past season. It was a team that had to be reckoned with in no uncertain terms, and the
opposing side never knew what the Wildcats might do in their determination.

A word of appreciation should be given to the coaches in closing this account, for without their training, the athletes
of Davidson would have been nothing. Coach Monk Younger and Coach Tex Tilson have done much to bring out the
athletes of the class of 1926, and to them, honor is due as well as to the seniors.

Miss Leticia Currie has returned from Winston-Salem, where she was in school at Salem College. The class of '24 had
an alumni meeting at the Davidson High School on Monday night of commencement.

ONE HUNDRED AND TWO DEGREES (Continued from page 3)
Litchfield Bogajski Huie.
Richard Moore Hunter.
Algernon Sidney Jones, Jr.
John Thomas Kimbrough, Jr.
Frank Cannon Kugler, Jr.
Green Flake Laird.
Elijah Logan Lovelace.
Albert Spears Lyons, Jr.
David Moore McComb, Jr.
Neal Carl McLeod.
Ralph McMillan.
John Archibald McPhaul, Jr.
Milton Edward Miller.
James Estes Millner.
Samuel Wilson Moore.
Joseph Wardlaw Norwood.
Edwin Tilmon Pullen, Jr.
Benjamin Ulysses Ratchford.
Horace Hewell Roseberry.
George Rollins Shaddock.
Frank Houston Smith.
Henry Hunter Smith.
Morgan Brower Speir, Jr.
Nesbitt Sullivan.
Martin Miller Teague.
Jennings Bryan Thompson.
Robert Finley Thompson, Jr.
Thomas Blair Thompson.
Joseph Doy Young.

Certificate
George Washington Ragan.

Military Commissions
L. B. Huie, major.
D. G. Wilson, adjutant-captain.
L. L. Deck, captain.
B. T. Crayton, captain.
B. U. Ratchford, captain.
G. W. Smith, captain.
J. E. Moore, captain.
C. E. Houston, first lieutenant.
A. S. Jones, Jr., first lieutenant.
C. R. McCarty, first lieutenant.
S. W. Moore, first lieutenant.
H. Y. Alexander, first lieutenant.
T. S. Baker, first lieutenant.
A. B. Claytor, first lieutenant.
W. D. Cox, first lieutenant.
J. J. Earnhardt, first lieutenant.
N. C. McLeod, first lieutenant.
T. B. Thompson, first lieutenant.
H. L. Vance, first lieutenant.
H. L. Vance, first lieutenant.

LITERARY SOCIETY DIPLOMAS
Pandemic
L. L. Deck.
H. Hollingsworth.
Grace G. Garrison.
J. M. Garrison.
C. D. Patterson.
G. M. Eddington.
S. W. Moore.
W. F. Milton.

Eumenean
W. H. Allison.
T. C. Barr.
C. F. Smith.
W. H. Lynch.
A. Y. Bowie.
H. H. Roseberry.

Philanthropic-Metropolitan
E. T. Pullen.
R. B. Parker.
N. C. McLeod.
B. U. Ratchford.
A. B. Williford.
J. C. Barrington.

Miss Sarah Lingle will accept a position on the faculty of Converse next year in the department of French. She
is a graduate of Smith College and received her Master’s degree in French from Columbia University. Miss Jane Leighton Richards
was valedictorian of her class at the Davidson High School this year. She will enter Converse College next fall.
