12 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

Famous Town-Wide Stars Chosen for World-Wide Team

The following town-wide famous football stars were unanimously chosen to the All-American team, after three months of heated discussion, by Coaches Peel of Mt. Mourne Prep School, Coach Ahab of Cornelius Fitting School, and Coach Sagumitum of Huntersville High.

Right End: Hugh Miller, speedy and flashy half-back of Frog-Level, S.C. Only Miller's magnificent complexion rated him over Yeargan, of Talladega, Ala.

Right Tackle: Harry Peterson, of Chattahoochee Village, after a mighty struggle vanquished James E. Moore and A. B. Claytor of Mooresville.

Right Guard: With the speedy but dumb Menzies pushing him hard, Bordeaux finally clinched this position because of his quick and fertile brain.

Center: This important position was closely contested between Wood Brown, celebrated red-headed fire eater, of Shuffeltown, and the redoubtable John Parks, of Atlanta.

Left Guard: W. C. Ogden, powerful cog in the Hagcedville aggregation, won over his teammate, Kid Lyerly.

Left Tackle: Although closely pressed by Fred Helm, Linton Lucius Deck, of Mount Mourne, finally won out.

Left End: Graham Shaw, Sumter’s holy terror, found his strongest competition in his brother, the elusive Buck Shaw.

Right Half: Bill Grant clearly outclassed all opponents for his place.

Left Half: Jack Vaughan, grad of Linking Spungs Fitting School, was the only college freshman to place. Henry Powell, a loquacious but fiery Derita product, ran Vaughan a close race.

Quarter Back: After much argument over this key position, D. O. Westbrook, chased by the fast D. G. Wilson, because of his matchless form and charming personality, safely placed. All three coaches rated him captain.

Full Back: Runt McLeod, speed king of Vass, by squelching Ernest Milton, rated this keystone position.

Manager: Willie B. Sloan, because of ready access to the noted liniment, vanquished Hudson Leathers. Both these showing lights were produced by our own mill village, both Black and White.

Cheer Leader: Billy Rice of the silvery falsetto, placed over the deep-toned basso—P. W. McCravey.

Both the Mount Mourne “Yearly Effort” and the Greensboro “Daily Strain” along with Charlotte “Preservus” and Presbyterian Standard declare this stalwart aggregation is without peer in the annals of all history.

Right End—Hugh Miller.
Right Tackle—Peterson.
Right Guard—Bordeaux.
Center—Wood Brown.
Left Guard—Ogden.
Left Tackle—Deck.
Left End—D. G. Shaw.
Right Half—Bill Grant.
Left Half—Jack Vaughan.
Quarter—Westbrook.
Full Back—Runt McLeod.
Water Boy—P. P. Thrower.
Manager—Willie Sloan.
Cheer Leader—Billy Rice.
Fresh Manager—Rosy McMillan.
Subs—John Parks for Wood Brown. Buck Shaw for D. G. Shaw. D. G. Wilson for Westbrook. Powell for Jack Vaughan. Claytor and Jim Moore for Peterson. Milton for Runt McLeod.

REV. I. CONDER IS THE OLDEST ALUMNUS

Rev. I. Conder, ex-1860, is now living in McGaheysville, Va. Mr. Conder was ordained as a minister in the Lutheran Church in 1861, and is now ninety-three years old. So far as the records show, he is the oldest alumnus of the college. A copy of a book by Mr. Conder, A PLEA FOR THE DECALOGUE IN OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS, has just been added to the Alumni Collection in the Library.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS KNOW THEM WELL

We have here three very familiar campus scenes. The wildcat, better known as Felix, and correctly known as Felicia, holds the center of the stage. This is the wildcat that the Davidson students have had to uphold their spirit. The first feline made its decease almost two years ago and his cage remained vacant for six months. The students felt that he should have a successor, but no one could be found who made it his business to hunt such ferocious creatures. A brave eastern-Carolina man finally accomplished the feat of bagging such an animal alive. The student body immediately purchased the wildcat for twenty-five dollars. He was brought to Davidson and installed in his predecessor's cage. This proved to be too small for his activities. Accordingly, Professor Carl Wachter gave a recital under the auspices of the “D” Club and raised the necessary funds for the construction of a new home for the cat. The lordly creature now occupies a palatial cage just to the rear of the gymnasium.

The scene on the right shows the wing of the New Chambers building which was completed this year. The columns of Old Chambers on the left of the building show its relative position in former days. New Chambers, when completed, will occupy practically the same position as Old Chambers did. The columns will be left standing as a memorial of former days.

On the left is a picture of Shearer Hall and Elm Row. The former was constructed in 1903 and was a gift to the college by Dr. Shearer, former president of Davidson College. This building is still used as a chapel. It will probably be vacated upon the completion of New Chambers, which is to contain an adequate assembly hall. The Shearer Chapel is entirely too small for the use of the present student body. Elm Row will be torn down at an early date. This building, together with Oak Row, once served as a dormitory for the college, eight men residing in each building. Since 1907, both buildings have been used as meeting halls for fraternities. The flagpole in the center was donated to the college by the class of 1918 as a parting gift. The Charlotte Chamber of Commerce recently presented the college with a beautiful flag to be flown from the pole.

All of these pictures are dear to the hearts of Davidson and recall bygone days to the alumni. Many of the latter have probably never made the acquaintance of Felicia the wildcat. Up until a few years ago, the Davidson football team was known as the electric machine and such an apparatus could not fittingly be used as a mascot. The students felt that they needed something besides mechanical apparatus to represent their spirit.

A Beautiful Scene on the Davidson Campus That All Old Grads Love

Local Professor Sick in Infirmary

On Tuesday, the students in Dr. Noble’s Psychology and Education classes were glad to welcome him back to their midst after his illness of a week. Wednesday of last week, Dr. Noble expressed the fact that he was not feeling up to normal, which feeling was well-founded in that he shortly had to go to the college infirmary suffering with an attack of “German” measles.There he stayed until Tuesday morning of this week, but fortunately not suffering with severe pain, the sickness being of a mild form. After the first day or two, the fever left him so that the remaining time was spent in recuperating and in overcoming the ill effects of the sickness. During his absence, his classes were ably conducted by students taking his advanced courses of education, giving them a foretaste of teaching which will be helpful to them. All are glad that he is once more able to take up his duties.

The above is a picture of the golf club of 1908. The club at that time was in its infancy and was poorly equipped as the picture shows by the scarcity of golf clubs. Since its inauguration, the club has developed from a small organization to a varsity team which holds matches with other well-known teams. The names of the members of the club are J. F. Martin, Jr., John McSween, Jr., E. B. Fisher, J. O. Harris, T. W. Davies, M. W. Butler, J. A. Crawford, James Allan, Jr., W. U. Guerrant, S. L. Miller, Jr., R. E. Denny, J. F. Hughes, R. C. Wilson, Jr., C. R. Wilcox, George Wilson, E. G. Mallard, J. A. Axford, and W. B. Taylor.

R. C. Wilson, Jr., the president of the club, is now pastor at McConnellsville, S.C. E. B. Fisher, vice-president, is now in the banking business at Morristown, Tenn. R. E. Denny, secretary and treasurer of the club, is a lawyer at Greensboro, N. C. J. O. Harris, course professional, is in business at Atlanta, Ga. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle helped to organize the club and has done more than any other faculty member in securing a golf course for Davidson. During the first year of the installation of golf at Davidson, two holes were constructed under his supervision. The second year, three more holes were added, making a grand total of five. It was not until the third year that with the help of almost half the student body, the ground was plowed up and a course of nine holes was completed.

The course at Davidson now is perhaps the best college course in the state and one of the best in the south. It now contains a nine-hole course and by playing the two practice holes this can be extended to eleven. Plans are being considered for adding two more holes within the next year or two. This brings the total to twelve. Golf has proved to be one of the most popular sports at Davidson. More students take part in it at one time or another than any other. Two of the students were recently defeated by only one point in a match with a professional team from Charlotte.

Davidson has been known since its birth for the chaste simplicity of its scenery. The above scene emphasizes the stately beauty of the ancient trees that are so numerous on the campus. Many varieties of massive oaks and slender and graceful elms rising from the cool green sward make the Davidson campus almost a garden. The overhanging boughs, heavy with the young green leaves and the winding walks surrounded by the even, carefully groomed grass bring a thrill of joy to the heart of all lovers of nature who know Davidson in the freshness of spring. Rising above such beautiful surroundings, the aged buildings with impressive magnificence contrast with the splendor of those recently constructed. The old English architecture typified in the new Chambers building harmonizes with the simplicity and sweetness of the landscape. The old well, now rebuilt and following the general type of architecture exemplified in the Chambers building, offers a shady nook for those who wish to be refreshed with the clear sparkling waters flowing from the smooth marble basin. And when darkness settles gently, almost respectfully, over this scene, the moon mounting majestically to its throne, clothes the campus with its gentle beams and creates new beauties in every spot. The glints of moonlight sift slowly through the leaves until even the shadows seem subdued and restful as they lay on the peaceful lawns. At commencement, when the old grad returns to rejuvenate and to recall memories of his college days, he is impressed again by the beauty of his alma mater. Beneath the historic umbrella tree where plights were troth, he wanders to think of the happy hours of his youth.

HONORS (Continued from page 9)

of the freshmen, since he made frequent trips here during the past fall during football season. “Popsy” was a member of the varsity football team for three years while he was here, playing in the backfield. He starred in a number of games and was especially noted for his drop kicking. In the P. C. game in 1923, Davidson won by 3-0, the only scoring being the dropkick by Hunt from the 35-yard line. During the 1924 season, “Popsy” starred notably in the Furman and Clemson games. Besides his work on the gridiron, he was popular with all of the students and was a member of the local chapter of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. The death of “Popsy” occurred after a sickness of only one week with double pneumonia, on Friday, January 22nd. He was buried the following Sunday at his home in Lexington. He was survived by his father and mother, Mr. and Mrs. John C. Hunt, and by one brother, Nat, who is at present a senior at Lexington High School and was captain of the Lexington football team during the past season.

Porter — “You had bettah sho’ keep your haid inside dat window.”
Nigger Passenger — “Look heah, blacker dan midnight; I don’t take ohders frum no black man.”
Porter — “Well den, if you damages any ob our railroad bridges you'll sho’ have to pay fer ’em.”