THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1926

Conference of North Carolina Young People to be Held Here Next Month

The eighth annual Presbyterian Young People’s League Conference will open at Davidson on June 10th and continue through June 17th. The general curriculum will include: Bible Study, Missions, Stewardship, A Study of Our Church, Sunday School Methods, and Methods for Young People’s Societies.

For the past eight years, the League Conference has met at Davidson; the first three sessions were open to all the states in the Southern Presbyterian Church, but when North Carolina began to enter such a large delegation, it was decided to make the Davidson Conference a North Carolina Assembly of Young People. Under the new policy, the conference has thrived for five years and each year the enrollment is growing larger so that it is expected that the attendance at the 1926 conference will reach the 500 mark.

A Board of Directors composed of Synod’s Committee and Synodical Auxiliary Committee on Young People’s Work has entire charge of the Presbyterian Young People’s Conference. The Board has secured some of the ablest speakers in the Presbyterian Church to teach, speak, and counsel the young people for this year.

The program, which the board has planned, provides for a complete three-fold instruction, being equally balanced with spiritual, mental, and physical features. The conference of 1924 elected Mr. Harold McKeithan, president; Mr. James Carr, vice-president; and Miss Annie Parks Moore, Secretary. These officers have been in office for the past two conferences and have served very efficiently. At the conference for this year, an entire new set of officers will be elected for a service of two years.

Each college in North Carolina which is under the direction of the Presbyterian Church will be allowed five delegates at the conference, but these delegates must represent some organization or some church which shall provide their conference fee; otherwise, the students will have to obtain work which will enable them to pay off this fee. Many of the colleges have already signed up their quota, but Davidson as yet has one vacant place, only four having signified their intention of staying.

Fresh Tennis Men Go On State Trip

The freshman tennis team, composed of John T. Roddey, John Bradley, W. W. Flowe, and Steve McGill, left Wednesday morning for Chapel Hill, where they will meet the Carolina Freshmen in a match to be played there this afternoon. On Friday, the netmen will meet the Wake Forest team at Wake Forest, and then on Saturday, the conflict will be with Oak Ridge. The team will return Saturday night.

Previous plans were to play Carolina, Duke, and Greensboro, but the latter two teams wired the manager to the effect that they would be unable to fill their part of the match. The schedule given above was completed on Monday after the two wires were received from Duke and Greensboro, but may be changed provided Wake Forest and Oak Ridge cannot meet the Davidson team as scheduled.

The team played and won their match 5 to 1, one singles match being lost. The four members will all play in the singles matches; Roddey and Bradley, and Flowe and McGill will play together in the two double matches.

Hugh Wells, '24, spent the weekend on the Hill.

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant 17 S. Tryon St. The Best Places to Eat CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Local American Legion Post Raises Funds to Aid Disabled Veterans

Will Present Movie at Local Theatre to Raise Money

The Davidson-Cornelius Post of the American Legion starts a drive next week for the purpose of raising funds for disabled veterans of the World War. The Government has done much toward alleviating conditions as regards those men who came out of the war in practically a helpless condition, but certain phases that are beyond present government jurisdiction are being handled by the American Legion, and the raising of funds for carrying out the work of the Legion constitutes one of the many activities of this big order.

In the effort to raise funds in Davidson and Cornelius, direct contributions from individuals will not be solicited. Such action ordinarily leads to criticism of the American Legion on the part of those solicited and is disadvantageous in other ways. Instead of this method, the Legion will give two picture shows at the Davidson Theater, matinee and night, and in this manner give value received for the amount contributed.

The big war picture, “Flashes of Action,” has been secured for Tuesday, May 11th. At 3:00 p.m., a special matinee for children will be given, the admission charge to be fifteen cents; the night exhibition will be for adults and the admission will be twenty-five cents.

Major L. B. Crayton, Commander of the local post, believes that the bringing of the picture to Davidson will enable the Davidson-Cornelius Post to raise its pro rata share of the disabled soldiers’ fund besides giving the people of the two towns an interesting evening’s entertainment at a nominal price.

“Flashes of Action” takes the spectator through the hard struggles of the infantry during the World War when every yard of gain had to be paid for with the lives of men. It shows long lines of advancing foot troops with here and there casualties caused by a bursting German shell or the well-directed machine gun fire.of the best machine gunners in the world. In addition to those scenes depicting heavy American artillery in action, poison gas attacks from the enemy lines, a naval fight with a hostile submarine, hand grenade skirmishes, and, in one case, a road covered with German dead, the victims of deadly American fire during a moment caught unprepared. "Flashes of Action" is, as indicated by the title, full of action from start to finish. It attempts to show war as it really is when the glamour, usually attributed by novelists and romancers, is removed. The picture must be seen in order to better understand what war means.

The Davidson-Cornelius Post of the American Legion will observe Memorial Day Sunday, May 5th. Major I. B. Crayton, Commander of the local post, has announced that the services at the Davidson cemetery will begin at 2:00 p.m., and will conclude in time for members of the Legion and others to go to Cornelius cemetery for services which begin at 3:00 p.m. The public is cordially invited to attend the ceremonies at both places.

Dramatic Club Goes to N.C.C.W. Friday

The Davidson College Dramatic Club will complete its work this year by presenting four one-act plays at the N.C.C.W. auditorium Friday night, April 7th. The Dramatic Club has had a very successful season, having presented programs in Charlotte, Lexington, and Davidson as well as providing a comedy skit for the Glee Club on its southern tour. At an election held Monday morning, F.S. Wilkinson was chosen as president for next year, and Jim Kuykendall as manager. The plays to be presented in Greensboro are: "A Little Bleeding," by E. J. Erwin, "Tailor-Made," by C. F. Smith, "Ellen," by D. Currie and E. J. Erwin, and "The Real Mr. Q," anonymous. The club has been coached by Prof. E. J. Erwin and the program no doubt will go over with great success.

DEBATERS LOSE

(Continued from page 1)

The Davidson debaters returned to the college on Monday and were loud in their praise of the wonderful treatment accorded them by Sewanee students and officials alike. They spoke very highly of the ability of the Sewanee debaters and expressed a sincere hope that further relationships between Sewanee and Davidson might prove equally as pleasant as this first venture.

She was a taxidermist's daughter and she knew her stuff.

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.

Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N.C.

SELECT YOUR HOT WEATHER SUIT NOW

Our selections include Linens, Tropical Worsteds, and lightweight Flannels, some with Knickers.

PRICED FROM $14.95 TO $29.50

BELK BROTHERS COMPANY AT CHARLOTTE

The freshmen met Charlotte on April 24.

The Citadel Cadets have come to the front in the matter of advertising their school. Just recently they gave a dress parade for the benefit of the Pathe and Fox News Reels and their cosmopolitan audience. The click of the cameras mingled with the beat of drums, as the Cadets marched out of the Sally Port to give a dress parade that will be flashed over the world. This mode of advertising should bring more students to this rapidly growing institution.

At Columbia University, each class has a class song which is composed by some member of its class and this is done at the end of the freshman year. Any member may write a song. A committee is appointed by the president of the class to select what they consider to be the two best songs submitted and then the class decides on their song from these two presented by the committee.

Electricity, which can release woman from her burdens, has already created a revolution in American industry. Wherever mankind labors, General Electric motors can be found carrying loads, driving machinery, and saving time and labor. And there is no branch of electrical development today to which General Electric has not made important contributions. A series of G-E advertisements showing what electricity is doing in many fields will be sent on request. Ask for booklet GEK-1.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
COMPANY
SCHENECTADY, N.Y.

In a field in sunny Spain stands a stone mortar. Crows hover around it, picking up bits of grain and chaff—cawing. Here Marcheta, in the fresh beauty of her youth, will come to pound maize. For years she will pound maize. The stone will stand up under the blows; not a dent has the muscle of three generations of women made upon it. But the crows will hurl their black gibes upon a woman aging early and bent with toil. Old Marcheta—still in her thirties.

The American woman does not pound maize. But she still beats carpet; she still pounds clothes; she still pumps water. She exhausts her strength in tasks which electricity can do better, and in half the time. The high ideals of a community mean little where woman is still doomed to drudgery. But the miracles which electricity already has performed indicate but a fraction of the vast possibilities for better living and the tremendous opportunities which the future developments in electricity will hold for the college man and woman.