4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Liveat Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

Business Manager
VERNON S. BROYLES

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
M. P. WFO

Assistant Managing Editor
JULIAN LAKE

Assistant Managing Editor
J. A. McALPINE

Athletic Editor
W. L. ALBRIGHT

Associate Editor
R. S. ABERNETHY

Associate Editor
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.

Exchange Editor
W. S. GORDON

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
C. C. MURCHISON

Assistant Business Manager
H. M. AUSTIN

Assistant Business Manager
R. H. McILWAINE

Subscription Manager
J. P. McKNIGHT

Circulation Manager
C. L. BRAGAW

Service Manager
A. M. SPARROW

Reporters’ Club
W. T. COVINGTON
W. T. DAVIS
B. WILSON
W. H. ALLISON
DEN OLS
J. G. WHARTON

EDITORIAL

The editorial staff of The Davidsonian wishes to publicly express their deep appreciation of the efforts of Miss Cornelia Shaw, the college librarian, in improving the conditions and appearances at the office of the publication. Through Miss Shaw’s interest and kindness, The Davidsonian office has been changed from an unsightly “hole” to a very comfortable and attractive office. We are very grateful to her for her interest and loyalty!

With this issue, The Davidsonian closes shop for the present term. Its work for the year completed, the publication shall now rest until next fall on its laurels—provided, it possesses such.

MODERN YOUTH DEFENDED

Following the recent innovation of the International Council of Religious Education of allowing youthful delegates to conduct one of its all-day convention sessions, there has sprung up in many sections of the nation a sturdy reaction against the modern conception of youth as a gay and giddy crowd of jazz-mad hoodlums, “hell bent for destruction.” In place of this awful picture of purposelessness, there has been painted within the past few days a new picture of modern youth—a picture in which the “flaming youth of today,” commonly conceded to possess no virtue other than a bold disrespect for conventions, is shown as the champion of religion, the nucleus around which our elders are building their hopes for the future.

The first step in the new reactionary movement was made when a score of speakers at the annual convention of the International Council of Religious Education, held in Birmingham, Ala., recently, rose to their feet in defense of youth, and in a forcible manner destroyed the false conception of youth that has prevailed during the past few years. There was no room for conjecture as to the opinion of Mrs. Grace Sloan Overton, of Chicago, one of the speakers, who loudly denied the fact that the girl of today is immoral because she is unconventional, and declared that the modern girl and boy is more permanently attractive because of higher intellectual and spiritual levels, rather than the fragile attraction of physical loveliness.

Wholesome religious ideals and a desire for a demonstrable creed which may be judged less in terms of profession than in terms of action were attributed to the youth of today by such eminent speakers as Dr. Edmund D. Soper, dean of religion at Duke University, and Mr. Stanley High, of New York City. Then came Bishop William T. Manning, Episcopal bishop of New York, and Paul Reiger, prominent San Francisco Rotarian, both of whom championed the cause of modern youth. Bishop Manning seemed elated that youth was unwilling to accept old doctrines without an explanation, and that the boys and girls of today were asserting rather than hiding their desires. He reminded his associates, who were the young folks of yesterday, that they were also sincerely disturbed by the new pulsations of 40 or 50 years ago. Modern lawlessness, he asserted, was due to the adults rather than to the young people, and he steadily maintained that modern youth is “singularly responsive to noble ideals.”

Paul Reiger, prominent boys worker of San Francisco, spoke to a group of Asheville Rotarians a few days ago, and insisted that “the life of the youth of today is better than it ever was and is growing still better.” And 500 Rotarians and their wives greeted this statement with applause.

With this reactionary movement well under way, youth faces a wonderful opportunity to demonstrate to the world its qualities of leadership. There are many destructive agencies at work in an effort to demoralize youth—but with the stamina that has been recently attributed to youth, it seems almost a certainty that the young people of today will take serious stock of their duties in life, and will respond with a will to serve and a mind full of capabilities. The torch has been thrown to the young people, and it is the fervent hope of such friends of youth as Dr. Manning and Paul Reiger that its light may be undimmed.

A FRESH CRISIS

Mr. Parker’s recent open-forum article, lamenting the present form of freshman control, has attracted considerable comment on the campus in regard to this very vital matter. Discussions among various groups of students have usually ended in an agreement that the present system has failed utterly to regulate and control the new students in such a way as to instill in them the proper respect for Davidson traditions and the much-to-be-desired “Wildcat spirit.” These discussions have for the most part, however, ended exactly where they have started—with no remedy or solution for the problem that seems to confront Davidson students.

Only one feasible plan has yet been suggested and that has met with thoughtful opposition. The suggested plan would require freshmen entering Davidson to arrive and register at the college two or three days previous to the arrival of the upperclassmen. During the two or three days in which the freshmen were alone on the campus, they would be under strict faculty supervision, and would be required to attend lectures and classes that might be arranged for them. These lectures and classes would be devoted to informing the new men of Davidson traditions, telling them what would be expected of them during the year, outlining to them new methods of study, and finally in explaining our unique honor system and inculcating in them a desire to be true sons of Davidson.

Certainly any plan which would insure the freshmen of instruction as to proper methods of study alone, would warrant at least a trial. How many freshmen enter Davidson and drop out within a few months, simply because they have never been taught correct methods of study? In addition, there is the advantage to be enjoyed of having the freshmen know from the very start what is to be expected of them, and just what the constitution of their student government allows and forbids. At least one regrettable instance during the past year stands out as an eminent witness to the fact that under the present system freshmen unconsciously violate their constitution, simply because they have never had it explained to them.

Members of the faculty and leading students would conduct these classes and deliver the necessary lectures; and in the evenings special entertainments would be arranged for the new men. The advantages of such a system have been definitely demonstrated by its trial at such institutions as Emory University and William and Mary. The chief source of opposition lies in the fact that such a system would prolong the college year, that it would call for undesired faculty interference in the disciplining of the new men, and finally that it would supposedly fail to remedy the evils that exist today. It has also been pointed out by opponents of the proposed system...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

that such a plan would really make conditions much worse, in view of the fact that freshmen arriving at the college would be filled with idealistic pictures of Davidson student-life, only to find after the arrival of the upperclassmen that it was all a fanciful dream. There seems to be no reason, however, for new men to be led to believe that conditions are any better than they really are. Instead, it would seem much more advisable to picture to them actual conditions and secure from them a willingness to help remedy the undesirable elements of campus life. No action has been taken by any governing or regulatory body on this suggestion. It has been merely suggested in informal discussions, but on its face, it seems to possess many desirable qualities. Its opponents have pointed out certain fallacies that deserve consideration, and their arguments are worthwhile. But, some new system is needed—and this is the only desirable one that has been suggested to date.

Open Forum

BOTTLED IN BOND

In attacking the liquor question the United States started a long war indeed, and one whose outcome will prove of enormous economic value to the world. No one can question the fact that outlawing the saloon as a center of social degradation and moral corruption was indeed a service to humanity. This, prohibition has done rather successfully; no matter how many insincere political wires were pulled. We are deeply indebted to the temperance movement for this contribution; but let us not lose all judgment and hand over our mental machinery to them because they have driven out the open saloon. The bootlegger may not have some of the attractive, seductive qualities of the bright lights, and giddy music of the bar room; but he has outstanding features that, if they do not outweigh, at least equal the vices of the saloon. But this problem has been discussed and rediscussed. At least this shows that conditions are not perfect. The plan suggested by many that "light wines and beers" should be brought back is obviously no solution. It would be merely an opportunity for the return of the old regime. What, then, shall we do? The past is unthinkable, the present is unbearable, and the suggestion of lighter beverages cannot appeal to those who think the problem to its logical conclusion. Suggestions seem few and most of them are highly impractical. The only attempted solution that seems at all workable at present is governmental control of all alcoholic beverages. By this system, a voting citizen in good standing could get at the first of the month a permission slip to get a stated amount of liquor from the government dispensary. For this, he would pay a price that would be much below the bootlegger’s highway robbery. It has been estimated that the government could own and operate distilleries and distribution points at a profit and sell the production at one-fourth the average price of bootlegged poison. This is not a perfect system but at the least it would have these advantages: (a) it would undersell the bootlegger and drive him out of business, (b) it would not bring back the open saloon, (c) it would be a source of income instead of a constant drain on the government, (d) it would avoid the hundreds of deaths caused annually by poisonous liquor, (e) it would control the supply and consumption of intoxicants, (f) it would keep the younger generation from much of its promiscuous drinking, and (g) finally it would change the attitude of hostility toward the law which is so broadly scattered today.

W. C. O.

Minor Chords

MOON MADNESS

Under the light of the Northern Star, Where the Ice King blows his breath from afar, And the cold like the grip of a ruthless hand Keeps a vigil like death o'er a wind-swept land, The moon rides low over pine-clad hills As the long, white slopes its bright light fills. Like a galleon of old on dark purple seas, It sails through the shadows of dim fir trees. From the shadows vague, a dark form creeps To the crest of the hill where the white snow sleeps, And the wolf, like a monk at evening prayers Moans a plaintive cry to the still night air. From hill to white hill the echoes long ring To join the sad notes of the trees whisperings. It echoes afar o'er the ice and the snow Till returned by another from the valley below, 'Tis the fierce cry of mating, of primeval love That reigns in the North with a cold sky above. Like the dim, pent-up voices from ages long past It steals through the cold of the winter's cruel blast. As he howls a lithe figure creeps up to his side To fawn in submission—to answer with pride. And the long cries are softened to whines of delight As they stand there together in the bleak arctic night. He the hunter, she the killer, as they stand there apart But the passion of love fills their fierce savage hearts. And they love there—as lovers have done since the dawn Of the world, till the star-light was gone. The way of the wild, in their ears was no sound Save the patter of feet on the hard-frozen ground. When the moon left the sky for a star-blazoned height, It shone down on two lovers running swift through the night.

—C. F. S.

DURING ALL these pretty DAYS WHEN the sun shines DOWN THROUGH the trees, MAKING LONG shadows ON THE SOFT green grass BELOW YOUR feet and MAKING YOU just glad THAT YOU ARE alive to BE ABLE TO enjoy the beauty OF NATURE, DON’T you wonder HOW A MAN’S fancy can keep FROM TURNING to thoughts OF LOVE? IN TAKING A little stroll AROUND THE edge of the CAMPUS IN the moonlight LAST SUNDAY about nine O'CLOCK WE heard low VOICES IN THE distance, AND UPON drawing closer DISCOVERED TO our AMAZEMENT THAT it was NOT A YOUNG couple out ON ONE OF the senior BENCHES enjoying the MOONLIT earth, but IT WAS TWO students— MEN WHO HAD had GIRL FRIENDS up for THE PURPOSE of helping THEM ENJOY the Junior HOLIDAYS. NOT WISHING to break in UPON THEIR fiesta we CHANGED OUR direction and HEADED FOR another part of THE CAMPUS, for these MEN’S FANCIES were turned to THOUGHTS OF love, and each WAS ENDEAVORING to tell the OTHER THAT his girl was the ONLY ONE. WE CONTINUED our little jaunt TRYING TO find a nice little PLACE WHERE we could park A WHILE AND shoot a little BULL ABOUT this and that. ABOUT AN hour later we CHANCED TO take the same TRIP AROUND the moonlit WALKS, AND when we again CAME TO THE spot where we HAD SEEN OUR college-mates WE WERE SURPRISED to find THEM THERE still talking ABOUT GIRLS and girls and GIRLS. SO we just somehow FIGURED IT out that maybe BARNUM WAS right after all. SPRING IS that time of the YEAR WHEN THE gallant young SWAIN WILL be dreaming so MUCH THAT he will unknowingly POUR ZIPP IN his coffee, THINKING IT IS milk, or will TRY TO FILL his fountain PEN WITH some of that AMBER COLORED fluid which THE DOCTOR had prescribed FOR THAT COUGH which was INVENTED FOR the purpose of GETTING OUT of a few classes ON AN ESPECIALLY hard day, BUT AFTER ALL we maintain that IN THE SPRING a man’s fancy LIGHTLY TURNS, and turns, AND TURNS. One of our CONTEMPORARIES holds that THIS IS TRUE not only in THE SPRING, but whenever MAN’S FANCY has a chance to TURN, WHICH IS often if he IS PRIVILEGED to live in CIVILIZATION. BUT if he is DESTINED TO spend the four BEST YEARS of his existence BACK IN the country where NEWS IS history before it REACHES US we believe THAT A DAVIDSON man IS FORTUNATE if his FANCY IS able to turn AT ALL. WE THANK you.

—BEAU MAC.

A good way to see if a man is drunk: Ask him to sing “Who Sells Shoe Strings for the Shoe String Seller’s Son When the Shoe String Seller’s Busy Selling Shoe Strings?”

—GEE MACK.