4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH........ Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
BRANCH Managing Editor
W. E. R. B. Associate Editor
A. Y. Associate Editor
A. H. Associate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN Humorous Editor
Alumni Editor
Exchange Editor

Business Staff
Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Subscription Manager
Assistant Subscription Manager
Service Department
Assistant Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
T. T. JONES
V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres.
W. L. LINGLE
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas.
B. MARTIN
W. H. ALLISON
R. H. McILWAINE
H. M. AUSTIN
J. P. McKNIGHT
C. L. BRAGAW
A. M. SPARROW
D. M. CALHOUN
J. G. WHARTON
W. T. COVINGTON
B. WILSON
W. T. DAVIS
C. WITHERS
W. S. GORDON
W. S. WOODS
JOHN GWIN
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH

EDITORIAL

A NEW EXAMINATION

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, formerly president of Davidson and now head of Washington and Lee University, has prepared an examination which is radically different from anything that has ever confronted a prospective college student. It is not a physical nor a mental test. Nor is it a strict test of one’s morality. This examination tends to get at the root of the whole matter as to why a man desires to come to college. It tests him out as to his qualifications for going through four strenuous years of college life, surrounded by very different conditions from those which obtained at home. It is an attempt to size up a man before he enters college. Most examinations try to get a man’s worth after he has already entered.

There has been much discussion concerning the overwhelming army of men and women who enter the colleges of America every fall. Some educators believe that too many of the rank and file seek college education. We, as college men, know that many of those who enter upon a college career are sadly deficient in certain things that are necessary for success. Too many of those who start out with rose-colored dreams are found by the wayside after a year or two. The following, from the pen of Dr. Smith, is worth reading. Only you, yourself, can answer these questions.

“Are you enough of a grown-up, well-bred man to carry through a gentleman’s daily personal routine, without a word of advice or suggestion or command from anybody? Let us examine a few leading items of this daily routine, and test your preparation.

“Do you, with reasonable regularity, go to bed at some fixed hour and rise punctually at some fixed time, with no one to remind you or order or waken you? If not, you are still a mere boy, not yet ready for a campus life of self-controlled freedom.

“Have you formed the settled habit of personal cleanliness, with thoroughly washed hands and ears and head and body all the time, with clean linen and presentable clothes, with hair and shoes and nails properly cared for every day, with the habit of attending to your laundry and knowing where your various personal belongings are? If somebody else must look after these things for you, must find your clean clothes and keep track of your soiled ones, must remind you to brush your hair and polish your shoes, you are certainly not yet ready to lead a grown man’s life anywhere in America whether on a campus or in any business position.

“Have you grown-up sense enough to take special care of your teeth during this special period when unsuspected decay and infection may injure your manhood, health, and wreck your later life with crippling disease? Or are you in too much of a hurry to give your teeth a thorough cleaning every morning and evening?

“Have you learned that the human engine whose poisonous waste is not removed each day is on the road to an early breakdown, or are you such a ‘fool-kid’ chauffeur as to be rather proud of being able to put off such ‘interruptions’ almost indefinitely without noticeable disability?

“Are you in the habit of gorging your food in big mouthfuls, washing each down with a gulp of liquid, and finding ten or twelve minutes long enough to eat ‘plenty of grub’ till the next feeding time?

“These few items will help explain the first question of your entrance examination. If you can’t make 75 percent on this section of the examination, you’d better get busy at once, for you are certainly not getting ready for college, whatever your textbook grades and textbook units and personal conceit may be.”

A NEWSPAPER

This is a story with a moral. Last Thursday morning the writer got his copy of the morning Observer from the post office and was greatly interested to see that the United States Senate had voted for entrance to the World Court by a vote of 76 to 17. This vote came as a climax to an intensive fight waged by both of the questions at issue. The student conference at Princeton in December had this as its sole topic. Several fellows asked to see the paper while walking up to the chapel and the paper was gladly handed over. It was noticed, however, that each reader was intent only on seeing the sporting section. Not a glance was given to the front page where glaring headlines proclaimed that our government had taken the most important step in world affairs since the treaty of peace was ratified during Harding’s administration.

In chapel and afterwards a number of boys read the paper. Some glanced at the front page but failed to discover any news thereon. The writer, full of curiosity, asked several the question, “Well, there’s not any news today, is there?” Probably the most intelligent answer was that Jo-Jo predicted rainy skies for the next day. Those who read the paper discovered that Red Grange was in California, that Helen Wills was ready to meet her only real rival, Mile. Suzanne Lenglen, that Wake Forest was still angling for a coach, and that some unknown person was run over by a car down in Podunk.

Not a one found out that one of the most decisive acts made in our lifetime has been brought about. They all failed to realize that all Europe, seething with jealousy and distrust, was anxiously watching Washington to see what would take place there. Will this tend to make us a member of the league? Will it have any influence over the payment of the allied war debts? Is the World Court a partial answer to the prayers of the late President Wilson that America should take her place as a leader among nations, and that by outlawing war, a permanent peace may be gained for this world? And yet, we wonder whether Carlos and Carlotta will get their just deserts at the formidable hands of Andy Gump.

WHAT WE NEED

For the past eleven years, The Davidsonian has tried to give service to Davidson College. During this time, it has been handicapped by a lack of proper equipment with which to publish a newspaper. It has never had an office up until this year, and even today, all the tangible equipment that can be called its own is the name. The office, or rather the room in Shearer Hall, is as bare as Mother Hubbard’s closet. The Davidsonian does not possess a typewriter, a desk, a filing cabinet, a bottle of paste, or a lead pencil. What has been used in the past year in getting out this paper has been generously donated to the cause by those individual students who assist in its editing and circulation. They are glad enough to do this, but—.

What we would like to see done, and what we believe would merit the commendation of every man on the campus, would be to secure a small part of the profits that come out ofThe student store and use it in fitting The Davidsonian with an office—a typewriter, two or three desks, and some paper on which to write copy. "The profits from this store, which all come out of the pockets of the student body, have been used for several different things in the past, most of which we know nothing about. We believe that no better use of part of it could be made than in the manner described. This paper comes out every week regardless. Its editors arise on Tuesday morning after a practically all-night session with bleary eyes and go to classes, uncomplaining. But on Monday nights, they would be greatly cheered by the sight of some little furnishings to lighten their labor somewhat. Every newspaper of which we have knowledge has much better equipment than The Davidsonian. We would certainly like to see our sheet get in the class where it belongs. It has sustained its reputation as the best paper in the state with nothing more than a name to work on.

CURSES!
Some little comment has been engendered on the campus and environs concerning the editorial on profanity that recently appeared in the Davidsonian. The Tar Heel, one of the leading college newspapers in the South, was kind enough to print the whole of it with a comment on its editorial page. We fear that one point brought out in this article was not made sufficiently plain. We said that to us, profanity was not so much a sin as it was an offense against good manners. By that, however, we mean the status of him who uses it. We firmly believe that most of those who use profanity in all its forms are not fully conscious that they are breaking one of the Ten Commandments when they take the name of God in vain. They have learned it by constant association with those who use it profusely. Familiarity and ceaseless repetition breed a disregard or carelessness that inures one to profanity. Many are almost totally unconscious that they talk in this manner. Profanity is not a sign of manhood by any means, and the sooner a boy gets that out of his head, the better it will be for him. Certainly, one cannot make a better start than right now and cut out some of the cussing.

COMPULSORY PEP
Our stand, taken last fall in regard to Freshmen being made to attend pep meetings, seems to have found its echo in an editorial published in Monday’s Raleigh News and Observer. This article decried the recent action taken at State College in respect to keeping the first-year spirit high by forcing the new men to attend every pep meeting. And in the event this ruling is violated, the culprits are forced to wear childish trappings such as ribbons and to walk in the gutters of the streets. We still maintain that this is a poor way to inculcate spirit in a fellow. No man will ever become possessed of that intangible, but nevertheless real college spirit by compulsion. We trust that this distasteful and childish practice will soon wither away here. The time to start studying for those examinations in May is right now—today. Take every day’s lessons as they come, prepare them to the best of your ability, and when they come, put away your book and laugh at those who stay up all night studying.

Minor Chords

A BECKON
The cry is up
Go with the bawdy crew
Raise high your cup
Your conscience to eschew
Scurvy litter
Of all impotence rings
Tinsled glitter
Of all licentious things
No drawing back
Nor any scruples show
Lest they attack
Base slander to bestow
On faith they leer
And have no conscious creeds
But to besmear
All worthy honest deeds
A dizzy whirl
Their nature to pervert
Damnation hurl
All hell itself invert
Come to the front
Raise high the cup
Don't bear the brunt
The cry is up.
—Philip C. Shook.

A NIGHT SONG
Far-off calls of night birds
And a full moon in the sky—
A wind-kissed breeze from sombre trees
Is singing a lullaby,
While the fireflies play on moonlit grass
To the pine tree’s plaintive sigh.
Like a jewelled shaft the moonlight
Turns a pool to silver hue
And the crooning note of a mock bird's throat
Steals o'er the cooling dew,
As the cloudlets float on fairy boats
To the land of dreams come true.
—C.S.

BOOK REVIEW
This book review department has lately been added to the Keyhole and it is planned to run it at divers intervals. The latest and snappiest line of books will be reviewed by the office boys and printer's devils.

Anab (333 pages, price with jack, fifteen volumes 15 cents.)
The newest old book going; plenty of fun for everyone. A spicy tale of the time when Greek meets Greek. Daring pages of love and adventures among the restaurant keepers. Fine for kiddies.

College Humor (300 pages illustrated naughtily, price too much.)
This philosophical treatise of collegiate wisecracks is one continuous round of fun, frolic, and frivolity for kids from 7 to 70. It contains the ten original jokes all garbed up in college dress and includes the new SO’S YOUR OLD MAN wheeze. Bare facts and limbs predominate.

Webster’s Dictionary (1000 pages or less, prices on up.)
Although a bit wordy and slushy, this work is the hottest thing we've read this year. It contains a good many risqué words but it will bear reading as the plot is absorbing and the characters are all interesting even if a bit phlegmatic. Especially recommended for Davidson students.

Davidson College Magazine (Now extinct. Name your price.)
Although this book is now regarded as something of an heirloom it may be found at any good antique dealer. It abounds with frowsy tales of youth and old age. The verses rhyme and that’s saying a lot these days.

Mother Goose Rhymes (New edition 1000 pages. Price six bits.)
The government threatens to suppress this book as it flagrantly defies the Volstead Act by licentious talk about liquor. The plots are especially good, and the characters true to life. Richly illustrated.

Montgomery Ward Catalog (Free—illustrated.)
This work of art abounds with masterpieces of drawings by famous artists. The still life sketches of the plows and radios are better than anything Raphael ever did. The pink pages of no man’s land still contain articles of interest to every gum-chewing female. The steam engine department is particularly rich and racy. It’s time now for the women to wear their new fall hats.

WHAT PRICE EDUCATION?
The soph class is at a loss to know what to do with two extra seats in the Ford that they hired to carry them to the banquet to be held in Charlotte this month. The class, owing to limited finances, desires to have these seats filled and if anyone is going down that night, he can get a good ride at almost half the regular Ben Beal price.

Prof.—“Mr. Hendrix, what does the stork look like?”
Jim Hendrix—“You can’t fool me, Doc. There ain’t no such bird as a stork!”

YESSIR, THAT’S MY ABIE
A botanist is looking for a name for his perennial rose. Why not name it Abie’s Irish?

George Smith has been trying his best to introduce another South Carolina dance which he calls the Abbeville. He claims that it beats the Charleston by a whole charley horse.

JUST OFF AND ON
Well, no one can say that the Prince of Wales is not a prince of a good faller.

A girl named Helen married John Fall, who is a friend of ours. John says that although she’s Helen Fall, she’s even worse in the spring when she wants a new hat.

HINTS FOR DAVIDSON CO-EDS
Don’t study after three a.m., especially if you need your beauty sleep.
Always let out a nice little lady-like squeal when you enter the library, and don’t forget to leave your hats on the reading room tables.
Treat all the boys with impartiality because they’re really good fellows when one gets to know them.
Always come in class ten minutes late as the professors expect it.
If there is another snow, brag about how you like to be snowballed.