THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 16, 1926

Return of Sappenfield Raises Students’ Hopes

Quarterback of Two Seasons Returns for Final Year on Davidson Team

The heart of every old Davidson student was greatly gladdened this fall when he arrived and found out that Nick
Sappenfield was back in college, and was out for football, as good as he was before he was hurt last
fall, in the first game of the season. Nick had to remain out of school for the remainder of the
first semester last year, but returned to take up his studies at the beginning of the second. When he arrived
he had a very noticeable limp, and the students feared that he would be unable to play this year.

Nick Sappenfield came to Davidson in the fall of 1922 as a freshman from Concord, N. C., and he immediately
went to work with the freshman squad, and easily made the team. The next year he was the first string
quarterback, and has remained at that position until he was injured last fall, and Jim Hendrix shifted to his place.
For two years Nick has been the headiest quarterback in North Carolina, and true lovers of the fall sport are
gladdened at his return to the game.

During the time that Nick has been at the quarterback position of the team, he has guided Davidson to some
very well-earned victories, chief among them being over Richmond, twice over Wofford, twice over Duke, and a victory over Clemson.
Not only the Davidson student body welcomes Nick back to school, but the football lovers from all over North Carolina
are glad to know that Nick is able to be back at school, and better still, is able to play
football again.

STADIUM WILL BE READY
(Continued from page 1)

in the time limit, which was six weeks. That leaves another month, since the work has been in progress two
weeks. According to the original plans a press box was to be included in the center of the field; it
has been decided to build a substantial temporary one separate. The press box will be sufficiently large to comfortably seat
10 reporters. It is planned to have it ready for the first game, if possible.

This stadium was made possible through the foresight and generosity of H. S. and L. Richardson, brothers, of Greensboro and
New York, who were also the donors of Richardson Field. H. S. Richardson, the oldest of the two brothers, entered
Davidson in 1906 and later received an appointment to Annapolis. He began his career as advertising manager of Vick’s Salve.
Today, this product has a sale of over 21,000,000 jars annually. The home office of the company is in Greensboro,
and offices have recently been established in New York and Philadelphia. Not content with the widespread popularity the medicine has
gained in the United States, Mr. Richardson spent several months in England introducing his product in that country.

Lunsford Richardson graduated from Davidson in the class of 1914 and entered upon his business career immediately as a member
of the firm producing Vick’s Salve. Today he is vice-president and general manager of the company of which his brother
is president.

Many Improvements and Changes Made on Campus and Buildings During Vacation

This, the second year of chapter houses at Davidson, finds all the fraternities off the campus and most of them
in houses out in the town. In most cases these houses are to be occupied only temporarily, being rented until
funds can be raised to build permanent chapter houses.

The Phi Gamma Delta and the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternities, the first two to move off the campus last year,
are in the same places this year, with Mrs. White and Mrs. Graham as house mothers. Only a limited number
of men room in the houses, the Phi Gamma Delta house accommodating ten, but both places board the entire chapters.
Across from the Phi Gamma Delta house, next to the High School, is the Beta Theta Pi house, rooming 12
men and also boarding the entire chapter. Mrs. Long is the house mother for the Betas.

The Kappa Sigmas this year are occupying the house of Mrs. Archie Brown, across from the Methodist church, with Mrs.
Brown as house mother. There are eight boys in the house, but they will run no table until after the
football season. The Pi K. A.’s have bought the old Williamson place on North Main. The house has been repaired,
and they have as matron Mrs. M. C. Willis, of York, S. C. The Pi K. A.’s are rooming two
boys there and boarding all of them.

Different from the rest is the K. A. house on North Main, next to Professor Wood. No men will board
or room in it, but it has been repaired and remodeled inside and will be used as a meeting place
and hall, much as the old hall was. The house occupied by the Pi Kappa Phi’s is the old Sigma
Delta place on North Main street. This house has for its house mother Mrs. Rogers, of Laurens, S. C. The
Sigma Deltas have moved to Mrs. Brady's, on South Main, with Mrs. Brady as house mother. Each house rooms about
eight men, as well as boarding the chapter.

Mrs. Crawford’s house on North Main is rented by the Theta Upsilon Omegas, and Mrs. Crawford is house mother. There
are eight men in the house, and like most of the others, all board there. This being only the second
year that fraternity houses have been at Davidson, only a few chapters own their houses, and even these will be
rebuilt later. Should the experiment prove successful, within a few years all the chapters hope to be in new homes
of their own.

STUDENTS RETURN
(Continued from page 1)

greatly broadened. New courses are being offered in Geology, Biology, Sociology, Business Administration, and Psychology. The scope of other courses
has also been enlarged.

What is so rare as sympathy for a sick professor?

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE-CREAM: BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

Adler Collegian and Campus Togs
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
15 East Trade Street, Charlotte, N. C.
Exclusive Agents For The Famous Selz Shoes

Three Men Lost by Davidsonian Staff

Three vacancies have occurred in The Davidsonian staff this year. F. K. Bell, J. F. Hollingsworth, and Garnett McMillan, Jr.,
all of whom greatly aided the publication of The Davidsonian last year, failed to return. Appointments will be made for
these vacancies by the editor as soon as possible.

Kenneth Bell served as Exchange Editor till the latter part of last year, when he was appointed Associate Editor. During
his Sophomore year he was a member of the Reporters’ Club and was a member of the Junior Magazine staff
last year.

Garnett McMillan served as Humor Editor of The Davidsonian last year, editing the “Peanut Parcher.” Last spring he was appointed
Associate Editor of the new staff. He was a member of the Reporters’ Club and was on the Junior Magazine
staff last year.

J. F. Hollingsworth was also a good worker on the staff last year. He was a member of the Reporters’
Club.

Dormitories Renovated

Students returning to the Davidson Campus found that numerous changes in the way of improvements had taken place during their
absence. A force of workmen were employed practically all vacation in renovating, painting and remodeling the various buildings.

The chemical laboratory has been refinished and repainted throughout. The walls and ceiling were painted, all the equipment mended and
new articles added.

The biological laboratory was the recipient of new fixtures with the department being placed in the first floor of Shearer
hall which was renovated and new tables, cabinets, stands and all kinds of new equipment were added.Club and was appointed
Assignment Editor on the new staff last spring.

A notable improvement was made on the freshman athletic field. It was leveled and rolled, and with excavations for the
stadium, much additional space has been added. This field is now in excellent condition for the freshman athletics and will
furnish sufficient room for the practice ground. The loss of several members of the staff is, however, greatly compensated by
the return of R. L. F. Jones. Jones was Assistant Managing Editor the first part of last year when he
was in school here. He was a member of the Reporters’ Club, Golden Quill, Delta Pi Kappa, and the staff
last year.

Richardson has made a special effort to ensure that the dormitory rooms will have a presentable appearance at all times.
The ground is in good condition with deep, crisp green grass on both the field and the playing field, adding
greatly to the beauty and value of the field. Special attention was paid to the fields during the summer months,
and men worked incessantly so that the sod might be in readiness for the opening of the football season. All
of the dormitories were worked over with the greatest improvements. The walls and ceilings were given several coats of paint,
and after all the cracks and crevices were gone over with plastering, new phases were added to the dormitory rules,
including the manner of hanging pictures and curtains.

CONGLOMERATE VIEW (Continued from page 1)

Speaking still of speaking—what orators the latest acquired class must cherish within its midst! Unless our eyes deceive us, the
very pulpit of the established church is to soon be blessed by having a neophyte pastor blazon forth his puerile
message from its eminence. The bashful feel trepidity upon their first unannounced forum appearance. The bravest, however, taking the rear
seats and selecting the conventional entrance for their approach. Alas, the younger generation must be served. Judge Lincoln, of the
graybeards, whose chief adage nouns are extreme, must consider the vertebral lining of a room graced exclusively by Juniors and
Seniors, and with lips blued by the message entrusted to his deliverance.

College Organizations Occupy Old Buildings

Former Fraternity Halls Given Over to Various School Activities

For the first time since social fraternities were established at Davidson, they will have quarters off the campus. Last year
there were four such organizations occupying Elm and Oak Row, but their halls have been vacated, and authorities at Davidson
are designating them for other types of organizations. The end of Oak Row formerly occupied by the Beta Theta Pi
Fraternity will this year be given to the Student Council. This will assist them to properly function in this important
phase of student life. Not only will the Student Council convene here, but also several honorary fraternities, including Omicron Delta
Kappa, will hold their meetings here. In the other end of Oak Row, the old Kappa Sigma hall, The Davidsonian
will use as its office. For several years The Davidsonian has been working under a handicap in that they did
not possess adequate room for working. Giving them one end of Oak Row will afford them an opportunity to work
more comfortably and more efficiently than in the past.

The northern end of Elm Row will be a faculty club room. It will be arranged in a manner that
will make it a delightful place for members of the Davidson faculty to spend their leisure moments. The rooms will
be attractively furnished as a reception room for alumni when they return to the campus, with the rear room acting
as an office for the alumni secretary, Bre Milton.

Town News

Dr. C. M. Richards, who has been spending the summer in the Holy Land and Europe, is expected to return
this week. Miss Fannie McBryde of Linden, N. C., is with Mrs. L. R. Smith for a few weeks. Mr.
Lex Kluttz, of Columbia, S. C., at the head of the Near East Relief work in his state, was a
Davidson visitor Saturday. Prof. Rogers of Tallahassee, Fla., and Dr. and Mrs. W. W. Wood were guests last week. Dr.
Hudson Rogers, a member of the class of '08, and Mrs. Richards and daughter, Miss Sophie, have just returned from
Europe. McDowell, who has been a Rhodes scholar for three years, has returned. Mrs. Buckner, of Montreat, has moved to
Davidson. Miss Gordon of Jacksonville, Fla., is visiting her sister, Mrs. Baskerville Robertson. Miss Charlotte Hunter left Monday to resume
her studies at Agnes Scott. Miss Ellen Black is visiting here. Miss Mary Hamilton has returned to Converse College.

Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65-3
DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Court Street Entrance
Commercial Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. By appointment 7 to 9. Sundays 12 to 2

CHIROPRACTOR
DR. LEE E. KISER
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Phones 69 and 706

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314, and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-3

DR. G. A. LAZENBY
DENTIST
Statesville, N. C.
Phone 494

This Hotel is Yours to use for all FEEDS AND BANQUETS no matter how large or how small, we can
serve you. Regular board---reasonable---and the best your money can buy. Music in the evenings.
MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Senior—“Why did your English Prof send you from the room?”
Junior—“I don't know; I just asked him if Lady Godiva had bobbed hair.”
