THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1926

AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Fraternity Tournament Survived by Six Teams
Semi-Finals and Finals to be Played This Week and Next

During the past week, the first round of the inter-fraternity basketball tournament was played off and five teams emerged victorious.
These were the teams representing Kappa Phi, Kappa Sigma, Theta Upsilon Omega. The Phi Gamma Deltas drew a bye for
the first round. All but one of the games were featured by guarding, which resulted in small scores. The second
round of the tournament will be played this week. The Phi Gams won from Theta Chi last night; the S.
A. E.s will play T. U. O. tonight and the Kappa Sigs will meet the Pi Kappa Phis tomorrow night.
The final round will be played next week. So far the S. A. E.s and the Phi Gams have shown
the best form. In the first game to be played, the T. U. O.s won from the Betas by the
score of 8-6. The guarding on both sides was very close and neither team was able to find the basket
often. Miller scored four points for the Betas and was the high point man of the evening. At the end
of the first quarter, the Betas were leading 6-0, but thereafter they failed to score and T. U. O. nosed
them out by two field goals and four foul shots. Mauldin shot the winning goal during the last minute of
play.

On the following night, the Kappa Sigs won from the Pi K. A.s. The score was 19-17. The game was
fast and close with the victor being in doubt until the final whistle. An extra period of five minutes was
necessary. McGeachy was the high point man and played a fine game for the Kappa Sigs.

Although fraternity basketball is an innovation at Davidson and at present is occupying the center of attention, we are skeptical
of the final outcome of the practice of intramural sports. Looking at it from one point of view, there are
reasons which might be used to sanction its practice; looking at it from the opposite viewpoint, however, there are equally
as potent reasons not to foster fraternity sports. The main point, as we see it, is that it makes the
non-fraternity man feel as if he is excluded from a proper place in the activities of the campus. He feels
as if he is isolated. He does not feel as free to indulge in his diversions. Concrete illustration is given
in the statement of a non-fraternity man that he wanted to practice basketball but knew that it was useless to
go to the gym, since fraternity men had monopolized the court. You can easily see to what proportions this sentiment
might lead, and in our minds, the harm resulting more than offsets the good.

Spring Golf Tournament Which Starts Next Week
By Ernest Milton

Now that Tex Tilson has definitely signed up for another year, the athletic authorities of Davidson can breathe with more
ease, and alumni can go about their business satisfied that Davidson next year will present a combination from the minds
of Monk Younger and Tex Tilson that will be a credit to Davidson and a joy to witness in action.
Fortunately, we felt all along that Coach Tex would come back to Davidson, but did not like to make any
predictions. Not that we felt averse to the fact that Coach Tex might go elsewhere, but the Younger-Tilson machine has
well-oiled cogs, and it would be disastrous for the pair to separate, as well as difficult to start under a
new system.

Although only two members of last year's golf team returned this year, it is expected that Davidson will have the
best team of recent years to represent it. Captain Earnhardt and Manager Jones, the two men from last year’s team,
have been showing excellent form this season. McGill, star player of last year’s Louisville High team, has been playing an
unusually good game so far. Among others showing up well are Boyce Martin, S. W. Tate, John D. Malloy, and
Crisco Hall. More interest has been shown in the team this year than ever before. Although no matches have been
definitely scheduled, Davidson will probably have about six meets this year. Concord, Salisbury, Winston-Salem, and Gastonia will, without doubt, be
on the program. If any of the colleges in the state have teams, Manager Jones states that he will try
to get a game with them. The spring tournament will be held next week. The purpose of this tournament is
to pick out the team. Everyone is urged to come out and enter. No positions are “sewed up” yet. About
50 have already qualified for entrance. There will be three flights; so everyone will have a chance. Prizes will be
given to the winner of each flight.

An exhibition match will be staged March 20th between Bill Gobel, the Charlotte professional and ex-champion of the South, and
Fred M. Laxton, champion of the two Carolinas, for the benefit of the golf team.

VICTORY CAFE
THE PLACE OF GOOD EATS AND QUICK SERVICE

When your good money goes into a suit of clothes you want to be sure good comes out of it.
Good all-wool cloth! Good appearance! Good wear! And a good, reasonable price! We've a goodly assortment of good spring suits
that meet these requirements. Another good thing about them is too many of them have two pairs of trousers.

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

“I’m leaving for Chicago tonight.”
“I’m supposed to get married tomorrow.”
“Where, in Chicago?”
“No, here in Charlotte.”

301 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.Pi Kappa Phis won from the K.A.s 27-10. The K.A.s showed little form and their opponents, led by
Kugler, walked away with the game from the start. Kugler, who was just out of the infirmary, was easily the
best player for either team.

The Delta Theta Chis won from the Sigma Deltas, 26-21. At the end of the half, the score was 11-9.
During the last quarter, Bill Story caged a couple of long shots which put his team in the lead for
good. He was high-point man.

The S.A.E.s won from the Pyramid Club, 43-12. The former was in a class by itself and had little difficulty
in winning. Lawson at forward and Baker at guard made an unbeatable combination. Bradford also played a nice game at
forward. The score at the end of the half was 21-6.

Mrs. Elliot was severely burned last week and has gone to Charlotte for treatment.

The freshmen are looking rather good in the spring practice. Monk Younger is going out to give them the once-over
for the next two weeks and probably do a daily dozen with them. Being with the team for a season
will give him an idea of what he will have as a basis for his work next fall.

Monk Mattox is going to assist Captain Alford in the training of the varsity baseball team during this time. Having
rid most of the players of their sore arms and letting a few of them regain their batting eye, Coach
Mattox and Captain Alford should be ready now to give them a more strenuous training and shift the men about
in every conceivable combination to get the best results.

HOW THEY SCORED

The following is the individual scoring of the Davidson Wildcat basketball team during the 1926 season:

Player | Field Goals | Foul Shots | Total Points
--- | --- | --- | ---
Anderson, guard | 70 | 32 | 172
Laird, forward | 66 | 23 | 155
Huie, forward | 57 | 21 | 135
Simpson, guard | 16 | 5 | 37
Wilson, center | 13 | 10 | 36
Harrison, guard | 9 | 8 | 26
Hewlette, forward | 10 | 5 | 25
Francis, center | 1 | 1 | 3

Total points scored by Davidson: 561
Total points scored by opponents: 526

WILDCATS WIN

(Continued from page 1)

Kellam (State) won from Captain Cox (Davidson) on time, 2:42, in extra period; Crinkley (Davidson) won on fall, 1:09, in
extra period, from Harrell (State); Vance (Davidson) won on time, 5:43, from Trevatham (State); Lambe (State) won on time, extra
period 2:47, from Maulden (Davidson).

Score by matches: Davidson 3, State 2.
