THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1926

CHAMELEON TO MAKE SECOND APPEARANCE HERE SATURDAY

The Chameleon, erstwhile Davidson College Magazine, will make its second appearance of the year on the campus here next Saturday
with a special Christmas number. A number of excellent essays and an abundance of charming verse will characterize this issue.
Various types of criticism received concerning the first number of this magazine have aided materially in molding the form of
this edition.

One of the particular features will be a one-act play, "Far Past The Moon," by H. M. Austin, the editor.
This play is a highly imaginative creation peculiarly fitting the Austin style. Those who remember his essay, "Vegetable Omelets," appearing
in the magazine last year, will be anxious to read this new work. More of his literary talents will be
evidenced in his editorials, "Chams' Goldie."

J. G. Wharton and W. O. Ogden will also have some short sketches in this issue. Wharton's work is an
impersonal essay, "It Was Time To Go To Bed," which promises to be extremely delightful. Ogden presents an impressionistic study
entitled "Fine." These two writers have proven themselves over and over again in their past work and these two articles
appearing in the December Chameleon, according to all reports, will only add lustre to their reputation.

A number of interesting books will be reviewed this time also. Among these are "The Romantic Comedians," by Ellen Glasgow;
"This Believing World," by Louis Brown; and "Harmen John," by Hugh Walpole.

There is an abundance of short verse in this issue. Those contributing to this department are W. O. Ogden, J.
H. Calhoun, B. F. Martin, T. G. McCutcheon, and others. Several of these had some verse in the first issue
of the magazine and it is believed that these poems are of the same calibre as those already presented.

There will be only one short story, "Galba's Daughter," by J. H. Calligan. Year before last Calligan won honorable mention
in the Anthology of Collegiate Short Stories for one of his articles which appeared in the Davidson College Magazine. Calligan
is also a poet of no little renown.

The exchanges show a wider geographical range in this issue than in the previous one. Some of the collegiate magazines
discussed are The Harvard Advocate, The Yale Literary Magazine, The Georgetown University Journal, and others.

FOOTBALL TEAM TO BE GIVEN BANQUET

The faculty and the championship football squad of Davidson College will be entertained by the city of Charlotte and by
Davidson alumni in that city at a banquet Thursday night, December 16th, at 6:30. The Davidson Wildcats have already been
entertained by the Gastonia Alumni Association and by Davidson alumni and friends in Mooresville. This banquet Monday night marks the
third of a series of entertainments given the football boys for their work during the past season.

The past football season has been one of the most successful in the history of the college. The local team
has won from or tied every team in the state this year, its only defeats being by the strong Hampden-Sidney
and V. M. I. teams. Coaches Monk and Tex and members of the team also have received hearty congratulations from
various parts of the country. This is the first time in many years that Davidson has won the state championship,
and this honor has brought much prestige and praise to the college.

The banquet Thursday night will be quite an elaborate affair. Members of the Freshman squad as well as the Varsity
squad, faculty members, and alumni are expected to be present. Although it has not definitely been decided yet, there is
a possibility that the captain for next year will be elected. Preparation for about 300 has been made and a
very interesting program has been arranged. Speeches will be made by several loyal Davidson supporters, and a big time is
expected by all.

JUNIORS AND SENIORS TO SPONSOR PICTURE FRIDAY

The Junior and Senior classes have advertised a special picture for Friday night, changing the date of the weekly picture
from Saturday night to Friday night so that this show could be obtained. The picture is to be "Claire Windsor,"
taking the leading part, that of a lovely German girl of the upper class, portraying the life of the old
world aristocracy, which is especially interesting to the American college man. The costumes of the period form a wonderful background
for the pale beauty of Miss Windsor.

Conrad Nagel plays in the supporting cast of this romantic comedy of the American Army of Occupation, as do Bert
Roach, George Cooper, and Tom O'Brien. Edward Sedgwick is both the author and director of this entertaining show about as
good as "Behind The Front" and "We're In The Navy Now." The consensus of opinion is that the picture is
just as good as "Behind The Front" and "We're In The Navy Now."

"Tin Hats" to be shown at Gym Friday Night

The faculty and the championship football squad of Davidson College will be entertained by the city of Charlotte and by
Davidson alumni in that city at a banquet Thursday night, December 16th, at 6:30. The Davidson Wildcats have already been
entertained by the Gastonia Alumni Association and by Davidson alumni and friends in Mooresville. This banquet Monday night marks the
third of a series of entertainments given the football boys for their work during the past season.

The past football season has been one of the most successful in the history of the college. The local team
has won from or tied every team in the state this year, its only defeats being by the strong Hampden-Sidney
and V. M. I. teams. Coaches Monk and Tex and members of the team also have received hearty congratulations from
various parts of the country. This is the first time in many years that Davidson has won the state championship,
and this honor has brought much prestige and praise to the college.

The banquet Thursday night will be quite an elaborate affair. Members of the Freshman squad as well as the Varsity
squad, faculty members, and alumni are expected to be present. Although it has not definitely been decided yet, there is
a possibility that the captain for next year will be elected. Preparation for about 300 has been made and a
very interesting program has been arranged. Speeches will be made by several loyal Davidson supporters, and a big time is
expected by all.

RHODES SCHOLARS CHOSEN FROM THIRTY-TWO STATES

Jim Pinkney and Clancey Williams, both members of this year’s Senior class, stood examinations last week as candidates for Rhodes
Scholarships. At the same time, examinations were held in 32 states. Williams stood the examinations in Alabama, his home state.certain
that almost no “rush” seats whatsoever will be sold for the evening performance, all students are urged to buy their
tickets at once.

Wishing old Pipe a Merry Christmas is fine as far as it goes... but shouldn't the wish be father to
the thought of giving him a Merry Christmas... which simply means giving him a festive carton of that grand old
pipe-favorite, Granger Rough Cut. Roll the Yule-log on the fire, fill the bowl of your old pipe brimful of Granger
and you're all set for the most glorious holiday a man ever spent. Granger is so full of good cheer.
Such fine old Kentucky Burley, as rich and spicy as a blazing plum-pudding. Then the good old-fashioned “Wellman recipe” makes
it as mild and mellow as century-old vintage wine. Its large rough cut flakes burn slow and cool... it smokes
as sweet as a nut! Granger mellows a pipe and keeps it mellow.

Ask for the one-pound canister of Granger, in the special Christmas carton. No other gift can bring such pleasure to
a pipe... or such joy to the heart of a pipe-smoker.

The one-pound canister of Granger, in a special Christmas carton, is a most appropriate gift.

Granger Rough Cut is made by the Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company.
