4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 31, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

SENIOR CLASS EDITION STAFF
ERNEST MILTON
ROLAND PARKER
BOYCE MARTIN
KELSEY REGEN
GLENN EDDINGTON
FRED SMITH
WADE ALLISON
HAROLD BURKE (Manager)

CLASS OFFICERS
Senior Class
Roland B. Parker - President
David G. Wilson - Vice-President
Robert W. Graves - Secretary-Treasurer
W. Ernest Milton - Historian
C. Frederick Smith - Poet

Junior Year
Harry Die Sniws - President
Bertie T. Crayton - Vice-President
Thomas S. Lawson - Treasurer

Sophomore
Thomas S. Baker - President
Chester F. Monk - Vice-President
Kelsey Regen - Treasurer

EDITORIAL
F. Nevin E. Pye
Alex. L. McMillan
Clarence E. Houston

IN MEMORIAM
JOHN STODGHILL McNAIR
JOHN WRIGHT MILLER
FRANK REYNOLDS HUDSON

At this, our graduation, the last time that we shall all meet together, we pause to pay loving tribute to
the memory of these three boys. They were taken from us by a divine Providence, in the full bloom of
glorious young manhood. Their lives promised much. As loyal and devoted friends they made the lives of those with whom
they were associated much brighter by their being; as worthy students, they furthered the name and purpose of the college;
as consecrated Christian characters, they influenced others for good. As the years roll by, as the members of our class
pass one by one into the great beyond, we shall hold dear the memory of these three whom we loved
as fellow-classmates and friends.

REMINISCENCES
As the twilight shadows of June 2 quietly encircle the venerable walls of old Chambers or entwine themselves in the
stately elms which bedeck the old campus, ninety-one men who have earned the title, “alumni” will watch the fading tints
in the west as they think of the sadness of farewell, the separation, perhaps eternal, from heart-friends together with more
exhilarating prospects. Memories of the rollicking pleasure of '22-'23, when acquaintances were more or less superficial, when cares of the
classroom largely smothered out the birth of association will come. Yet, even then, each of us laid the foundations of
those future intimacies which were to be the crowning glory of college.

Perhaps the circle of comrades widened during the hectic days of sophdom; certainly the finer of them deepened immeasurably and
sweetened the otherwise flat currents of our prosaic existences. Possibly the bull sessions on the portico of old Georgia, three
o’clock examination cramming in the chapter hall, or a weekend “Y” deputation have revealed the unsuspected attractions of a noble
and congenial soul. We found the junior days each packed with a wealth of the essence of college friendship. Here
the camaraderie of the first two years assumed definite shape. No longer does one puzzle over the person of his
fellow-bummer on his expedition to Converse or to the Carolina game. With quiet nonchalance we ignored or forgot the horror
of books and spent rich hours in bull sessions or long bridge games. Yet there were many moments, perhaps on
the council or in the case of vital crises as regards student body policies in which we joined hands on
the more serious things and found each other made of sterner stuff than we had dreamed; and virility thus strengthened
and solidified association. In rare moments we possibly yielded to the lure of the open and taking a choice pal
spent a boyish night at the gullies.

Then came Seniordom, the heyday of it all. Each member of the old class has his niche in our hearts.
We no longer looked for the O. D. K. or the Phi Beta Kappa key, but for the soul. It
is the intangible spirit engendered by nondescript midnight bull sessions on “Evolution,” or “Divorce” or “God” or a secret session
under the chinaberry tree. We catch glimpses of big souls, sincere souls, golden souls, when the mask of frivolity and
camaraderie has been temporarily cast aside. We gaze thereupon with that evanescent thing which “surpasseth the love of women.” Rudely
we are awakened by the dying of the last pale tint and remember that these are only memories, are gone,
that the holiest of friendships have been relegated to the motherly arms of tender but incompetent memory. A tear perhaps,
a sigh, a tug on the profoundest heartstrings and we realize that we must forget. Forget? No, but these poignant
heart throbs must retire to the mystic abode of reminiscence whence they may wander again, but briefly, in those sad
yet sacred moments when we shall forget for a poetic instance the drab circumstance of alumnidom and gloat over the
shadowy beauties of yesteryears. Then we realize that Hille was inspired when he colorfully exclaimed: “Like the rays of the
dying sun The memories of departed friends fall Sadly yet softly upon the heart.”
—ROLAND PARKER.

SENIOR SUPERLATIVES
This list was compiled by a committee of representative underclassmen. As the list indicates, several ties resulted, because of the
absence of one member of the committee. Probably every senior will disagree with one or more of the selections, but
taken in its entirety, it is fairly suggestive of student opinion:

Most popular in student body - Tom Baker
Most popular with faculty - Kelsey Regen
Most Gullible - Roland Parker
Friendliest - Woodrow Wilson, Roland Parker, Buster Lawson
Best athlete - Flake Laird, Harry Vance
Most scholarly - C. E. Houston
Most brilliant - Hamp Lawson, Buck Shaw
Best natured - Bob Graves
Neatest - Joe Garrison
Most conceited - Litch Huie
Most powerful in student body - Hayden Hollingsworth
Best dressed - Yancey Bowie
Best looking - Hayden Hollingsworth
Most honors - Roland Parker
Most carefree - Hamp Lawson
Noisiest - W. L. Baker
Most dignified - Tom Barr
Most versatile writer - Fred Smith
Most brilliant writer - Wood Brown
Ablest journalist - Ernest Milton
Wittiest - Charlie Bragaw
Oldest - Lin Deck
Most stylish - Ed O'NealMost dependable: Wade Allison
Most punctual: Count Davis
Most tactful: Gal Lester, Ed Wood, Brown
Most conservative: J. M. Appleby
Best conversationalist: Flake Laird
Most modest: Glenn Eddington
Ablest politician: Buck Shaw
Best businessman: Walter Lynch
Most earnest: Forest Franklin
Hardest worker: Lin Deck
Best looking: Alf Robinson, Ed O’Neal
Most humorous: Speight Adams, Flake Laird
Prettiest: Brooks Sloan
Premier aesthete: George Shaddock
Most amiable: Martin Teague
Most masculine: Red Anderson
Most reclusive: Abe Kugler

---

GREETINGS

Mothers and fathers, sweethearts and sisters of ’26, we welcome you to old Davidson. At this hour when we sever
those ties which are interwoven in the finest fibers of our souls, it is you who will make the passing
brighter—you who will soften the separation always, perhaps, from college pals. Nor do we forget the part which each of
you has played in making possible the joys of college life.

May these venerable elms, silvered by the soft glow of the moon or the melancholy rays of the dying sun,
these old buildings so poignant with traditions and memories of the Old Davidson of the past, become cherished memories in
your hearts also. Once again, our commencement visitors, we more than welcome you.

ROLAND PARKER, President Class 1920.

---

GLIMPSES OF TOMORROW

Two days from today, ninety-one students, members of the class of 1926, will be standing upon the threshold of a
new world, with a panoramic view of the vista before them. Each student has a different perspective—is viewing it through
a different lens. Each one is looking toward something different and is seeking after individual goals. We will be christened
men of the world when the last name on the roll is called and we slowly file out with our
diplomas in our hands. Bound up in the mere parchment upon which our names are written is a wealth of
meaning. Reading between the lines that certify you are now a graduate of Davidson College can be seen the hours
of toil that have been placed upon mathematics, English, philosophy, Bible, various languages, and other subjects.

Graduates we shall be declared. But graduates only from an institution—a school. Awaiting us is a greater school. It is
a school that sees more failures than successes. It is a school that is not divided into a four-year course,
but is a school for a continuous term of years—for life. It is not a school which requires a certain
number of hours’ work each day, but is one which requires incessant and diligent toil, far into the weary hours
of night when others have been asleep for a long time. We will not have a vacation of three months
in the summertime, in which to while away our time listlessly and pleasurably. We will not be in a position
to call upon father for pecuniary assistance. We are known as men now—men in the fuller sense of the word.
Many have already reached the required number of years to be called a man, but in speaking of manhood now,
we are thinking of something greater than implied in the completion of twenty-one years of life. That is the problem
which each individual person has to face today. We are all one unit today; tomorrow we will be scattered to
almost endless places. Today we are recognized as embodying the finest blood, the best traditions, and the greatest principles. Tomorrow,
what shall it be? Shall we forget the things which we have been taught—from our mother’s knee, through grammar school,
through high school, and through college? Shall we cast manhood and decency to the winds, and live a carefree, shiftless
life? Shall it be a life of ignominy and ease?

On the other hand, we should remember the first teachings, should spend time in reminiscence, should look for the highest
and noblest things of life, remember always that we have loved ones and ones who will love, and live a
life of steadiness, consistency, the good life, never swerving from the path of right, not catering to the whims of
the passing moment, to the lure of the world and its charms, but rather looking for the best things of
life on the side that seems more drab and forsaken. Contacts will be made with many people in the years
to come. They will learn that you have graduated from the venerable institution of Davidson College. They will know the
principles which were inculcated while you were a student here. They will be expecting the best. Thus, a responsibility is
entailed that should be felt and borne by each student—each graduate of this class, classes already gone, and those yet
to come. It should always be the best in you that is presented by your acts, for “by their works
ye shall know them.”

It was recently disclosed at a meeting of the seniors that ’26 members will be stationed from South America to
Niagara Falls, from Texas to Massachusetts. Indications are that members are going in for big things. Some are looking toward
still higher education; others will give of their knowledge in teaching; some enter professions; others business, and almost every phase
of life. There will be times of discouragement; there will be times of elation. In it all should be a
steadfast hope that you are at least fulfilling the purpose for which you were given life, always remembering that no
duty done or light obtained in any most obscure corner of life is wasted, that helps to the perfect duty
and perfect life that are to be.

Thus, we are ready to begin another chapter in our own lives—and the next chapter is the most important. We
could say that the next five years can constitute a chapter, for it is these years that are to be
the most strenuous—when students are beginning to get their start. Many have been anxious to complete their courses to fight
for themselves in the world. They will now be given a chance to learn about their own resources, their ability
to stand alone. One writer has said, “not until we can think for ourselves, decide for ourselves, and act for
ourselves do we become more than infants in the moral universe.” According to that, we have largely been infants so
far. Childhood for the next five or ten years; young manhood for the next fifteen, and then mature manhood for
the rest of our lives—when life’s tasks will be o’er and we're awaiting the call of the tired and weary.

—ERNEST MILTON.
