6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1926

Debating Season Closes With Defeat at Sewanee, Freshmen Complete Their Program With Meet at Carolina

The Davidson Debating team has ended its season after having filled a profitable and interesting schedule. Four debates were held during the year and although the Wildcats won but one of these, two were lost by one vote. Several new men were uncovered who have a real talent along forensic lines and prospects are bright for next year’s team, although the Wildcats will probably attempt an even more ambitious schedule than ever before. As was the policy this year, the Forensic Council will try to schedule inter-sectional debates rather than with teams in the state.

The first debate of the season was against the University of Pittsburgh, who defeated the local team composed of Parks, Ratchford, and Powell by a 4-1 vote. The V. P. I. team nosed out a 2-1 victory over Williams and Bowie. The Wildcats gained their only victory against P. C. by a 4-1 vote, Pullen, Stuart, and T. G. McCutcheon representing Davidson. The season was closed at Sewanee where Wharton and Branch got the small end of a 2-1 vote. This debate was considered one of the closest ever held at the University of the South.

The Freshman team will have a dual debate with the University of North Carolina, May the 18th. Pritchett, Gates, and Kell will go to Chapel Hill, while Graham, Grady, and Dumas will meet a Carolina team here. These men have been selected for their ability and for their forensic skill as shown in the literary society halls.

PROGRAM ANNOUNCED
(Continued from page 1)

participate in the events for any reason such as sickness must submit his excuse to the Soph Day committee and be released from conformity by them. The rules are as follows:

1. Each Freshman in each dormitory must call time signals during the interval allotted to him, a list of which will be placed on the bulletin board of each dormitory.
2. Every Freshman must wear a yellow slicker throughout the morning.
3. While out of doors each must jog or trot continually.
4. When speaking to an upperclassman Freshmen must say sir, after each sentence.
5. Upon entering the room of an upperclassman Freshmen must stand at attention until given at ease.
6. No Freshman will be allowed to walk on or across the “D.”
7. Each Freshman must secure his own mail during the day.
8. Each Freshman must carry a suitcase or handbag during class hours and place his books therein. These must be carried regardless of whether the Freshman is carrying books or not.
9. Every Freshman must report to the Freshman athletic field at 3:00 o'clock promptly to gather wood for the bonfire.
10. Freshmen must report to the basketball floor in the gymnasium immediately after the moving picture show Saturday night. Old clothes must be worn.
11. Freshmen must abide by any additional rules which may be laid down by the Soph Day committee, upon the approval of the Court of Control.

The Y. M. C. A. officers for the year 1921-22 were installed in a beautiful outdoor ceremony Sunday afternoon. The students gathered around the old well by the side of Phi Hall, and just as the sun was setting, the new cabinet was given the charge, after which the president J. P. Price, and the secretary, C. R. (Pat) Crawford, gave talks that rang in the hearts of those present for a long time after.

A dentist is the only man who can tell a woman to shut her mouth and get away with it.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Candies, Toilet Articles.
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Letter Heads
Envelopes
Programs
Tickets
Send them to Brady at Statesville and they will be printed right.

Visit Our New Fountain
When in Charlotte
Tryon Drug Co.
Agents
Hollingsworth
Nunnally
Whitman Candies

Prof. Wachter Host to Four Junior Speakers — Friday in Statesville
Branch, Steward, Williams and McCutcheon Are Guests

Thursday night, May 5th, Professor Wachter gave a banquet at the Vance Hotel, in Statesville, to the Junior Speakers. Those present were Harllee Branch, Don Stewart, Clancy Williams, and L. M. McCutcheon. These Juniors have worked hard on their orations and deserve to be praised. The diners had a room all to themselves, and, although several of them had reviews the next morning, they talked and discussed everything in general until about 10 o'clock. They had a fine time, and the banquet proved a great success.

This is not the first time that Professor Wachter has “done something” for the students and for the college. He has backed and stood behind the athletic teams all year, and has added a great deal to the Davidson spirit. During the football season he did more than any other one man to put pep into the students and into the team. He has given banquets to other groups of students on other similar occasions, and these have always proved successful.

Professor Wachter does not intend to return next year, and the students realize that they are losing a valuable friend and advisor. He has been here almost two years, and he has done much for Davidson during that time.

STUDENTS SHOW
(Continued from page 1)

class were opposed to prohibition, while more than one-sixth of the Sophomores were ardent “wets.” The percentage in the two upper classes was a bit more striking, especially among the Juniors, one-third of those voting in the Junior class expressing opposition to the dry law. Only five of the Seniors voted against the eighteenth amendment. It was distinctly informative to notice some of the arguments pro andcon on this very pertinent issue. The advocates of prohibition saw in a repeal of the prohibition amendment a threatening menace to American society, and in whiskey a demoralizing demon of no small proportions. Whiskey was pictured as the cause of the recent crime wave, as an injurious stimulant, an un-Christian commodity, and a pernicious evil among laborers and collegians alike. Prohibition, to them, has been a God-send. It has closed saloons, which in pre-Volstead days were centers of bad influences, and the home of crime; it has destroyed what formerly seemed a curse to society; and although it has by no means entirely stopped the manufacture and sale of liquor, it has had its good effects. “Give it a trial for at least two generations,” demand the prohibition advocates at Davidson. “It is unfair to expect a man-made law to relieve in one or two years all the evil that men for generations of intemperance have brought upon themselves. But, remember,” they go on to remark, “that public drunkenness and debauchery are by no means as prevalent now as they were in pre-prohibition days.” But, they don’t stop there in their praise for the Volstead law. They remind their fellows that prohibition has saved homes, and has bettered the welfare of the whole society.

The “wets” come back with a vehement attack on the Volstead amendment. It has not only failed to relieve drunkenness, they observe, but it has made drunkenness worse. It has taken liquor from the laborer and given it to the collegian, with disgusting effects in each instance. It has destroyed the open saloon, it has created the bootlegger; it has taken away governmental inspection of liquors and given to the public a brand of whiskey that will be inevitably bought, even though it be poisonous in its very ingredients. It has made a sport of what was in pre-prohibition days a recognized debauchery, and has attracted youth to the use of a damaging beverage. It has taken from the government a vital source of revenue, and has destroyed its very fundamentals. It has destroyed the inherent rights of American citizenry, and has failed to do any of the things its advocates predicted for it. And there you have the contention of the “wets.”

At Davidson, prohibition has a vast majority behind it, but the fight seems sure to continue. Just what the “drys” claim as an accomplishment for the eighteenth amendment, the “wets” use as an argument against it—there seems no hope of peace. And so it must go on ad infinitum, unless some kind Providence destroys the prospects of a big corn and rye crop, and thus destroys the ingredients so necessary to the manufacture of this trouble. Let us pray for a famine in these grains!

Mr. Frederick Smith, a journalist and correspondent of world-renown, gave a very interesting address before the members of the Polity Club on “The Problem of Japan in China and Siberia; The Anglo-Japanese Alliance.” Mr. Smith was well qualified to talk on such a subject, as he is a wide-travelled lecturer, and an authority on questions of International Relations.

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association had its second annual meeting at Davidson College as the guests of The Davidsonian and Magazine during the last week of April, 1921. There were delegates representing 13 of the state’s college publications present, and during the few days of the meeting, the association was put on a sounder basis, and its work greatly advanced. On the first evening, Prof. Currie gave an address of welcome, which was responded to by C. W. Weathers of Wake Forest, who was acting President in the absence of Eris Cassell. The address of the evening was delivered by Mr. J. O. Faulkner, of Washington and Lee, on the “Inside and Outside of a College Newspaper.” After the meeting was over, the local chapter of Sigma Upsilon was host to the Association at an informal reception held in the Bachelor’s Hall. On the final day of the meetings, the elections were held, and Miss Annie Cantrell of N. C. C. W. was elected president of the Association for the coming year, 1921-22.

During the week, the ladies of Flora Macdonald College appeared before the students in a very entertaining concert with vocal solos by Miss Fannie Foy, violin solos by Miss Jane Vardell, and piano solos by Miss Mary Poole. The concert was greatly enjoyed by the students, and a cordial invitation was extended the ladies to return at some future date.

The accomplishments of the various teams of the college in spring sports were not as successful as they might have been. Out of the six contests of the week, Davidson won two, and one of those by a small margin. In baseball, Davidson downed Elon 2-1, but was defeated by both Trinity 4-0, and Citadel 5-2. In the track meet, Clemson ran away with the long end of an 89-29 score, with Davidson taking only one of the fourteen first places. In Tennis, Trinity overcame with the singles standing 2-2 but the doubles 2-0. In the matches with Lenoir, however, Davidson came back strong and took all of both the doubles and singles.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5050
Residence, 1937-J
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Neurocalometer Service
12 South Tryon Street
Over Garibaldi & Bruns
Telephone: Office 8171 Res. 5419-W
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
Eyes Examined
252 Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Telephone 3528

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies
Mooresville, N. C.

YOUR BARBER SHOP
When in Statesville and you require those finishing touches, drop in and let us do the work.
THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP
Statesville, N. C.

MAKE YOUR HEADQUARTERS
During commencement with us. We are making special arrangements to serve you and your friends. We appreciate your patronage.
THE MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
DAVIDSON, N. C.