Vol. XIII FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 22, 1926 No. 28

Davidson R.O.T.C. Unit Reviewed as Candidate for High Honor Rating

War Department Officers Make Rigid Military Inspection

ATTEND CLASSES

Special Tactical Maneuvers Follow Review—Officers Entertained by Doctor Martin

On last Wednesday the War Department board of officers, consisting of Maj. E. A. Stockton and Maj. Thomas J. Johnson,
gave the Davidson College military unit a thorough inspection, embracing every feature of the work carried on here, not only
class room instruction but also rifle range, drill work, and storeroom facilities. Morning classes were the first phase of work
to be examined. The inspectors first observed the method of instruction in use by the officers on duty at this
station, then questioned the men of the various sections on the subjects covered throughout the year. By comparison of notes,
the officers of the department here believe that a very favorable impression was made by the classes, probably the best
showing being made by the Junior groups. Following this, the board met for a conference with Dr. Martin, Dr. J.
W. McConnell, Dr. Sentelle, and Mr. F. L. Jackson. Here a general discussion of R.O.T.C. work was given by the
visiting officers. During the morning drill period, Company “A” put on a problem on the golf course. The problem consisted
of a platoon in the attack, blank ammunition being used. Another platoon of “A” Company gave extended order drill while
the remainder of the battalion gave close order drill on the athletic field. All of these maneuvers were inspected by
the Board. A review of the battalion was held in the afternoon, and was said by authorities to be probably
the best the college has ever seen. After the review, the board inspected each rifle and each man in the
battalion.

(Continued on page 7)

Junior and Freshman and Rising Juniors Select Officers for New Year

Boyce Martin Elected Vice-President and Carr is Chosen as Secretary and Treasurer

In the final ballots of the elections for the officers of the rising Junior class, Boyce Martin was elected vice-president,
and Dick Carr, secretary and treasurer. Previous to this, the class elected its Student Council members for the next year.
Lynn McClain, by virtue of his election to president of the class for the coming year, is automatically elected to
the Council. In the elections for the other members, W. O. Nesbitt, Boyce Martin, and Hugh Arrowood were chosen. In
the elections for the officers, Martin won over Carr in the final ballot by several votes. In the second ballot,
Camper and O'Neal had been eliminated, and in the first ballot, Tyree Dillard had been eliminated. Martin had previously been
chosen to be one of the representatives of his class on the Student Council next year. He is a member
of The Davidsonian staff, and of the Delta Pi Kappa and Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternities. Carr won over Hancock in
the final ballot after Chalmers Davidson had been eliminated on the second ballot, and Clement Penn on the first ballot.
Carr has taken a prominent place on the campus since his arrival at Davidson. He is now playing number two
on the varsity tennis team and on the first doubles team. Last year he played on the Freshman tennis team
and succeeded in making a name for himself in the tennis world at Davidson. He is a member of the
Sigma Delta fraternity.

Council Installed Thursday Morning

The new Student Councilmen who were elected to serve the student body for the coming year were installed last Thursday
morning, after the regular chapel exercises. At the same time, the student body and class officers for next year were
automatically installed. The oath of office was administered to the new councilmen by Tom Baker, president of the student body
and Student Council during the past year. After the oath of office had been administered to the new men, a
brief but impressive charge was given the new council by the retiring president in which he reminded the members of
the dignity and responsibility of their office as well as the high honor in having been elected to this office.
The president of the student body for next year, James F. Pinkney, then made an address to the council and
the student body. In this address, he pledged his effort to the direction and administration of the new council and
admitted the responsibility which is incident to this office. He also made an appeal to the entire student body, reminding
them of the co-operation that was necessary between the council and the student body. The old council will continue to
meet together with the new council until the end of this term. Next year, the new council will take complete
charge of the student government from the opening of school. The following is a list of the new councilmen: Senior
class; J. F. Pinkney, president;

(Continued on page 8)

Wharton Announces New Annual Staff

L. D. Wharton, Jr., editor-in-chief of the 1927 Quips and Cranks, announced Sunday night the appointment of 11 men to
the editorial staff of the annual for the coming year. Four of the men appointed will be Seniors, while the
other seven will be members of the Junior class next year. W. S. Woods was given the most important position
on the annual, that of literary editor, while H. M. Austin and J. H. Hall were appointed as associates in
this line of work. The next most important position, that of photographic manager, was given to John Bernhardt, with Tyree
Dillard and Bob Platt as assistants. Four other Sophomores were given places on the annual, Boyce Martin as athletic editor,
and D. W. Hancock, F. C. Withers, and J. P. McKnight as contributing editors. J. F. Garrison was appointed chief
typist. Wharton stated that heretofore practically all the work of the annual, with one or two exceptions, was done by
Seniors, but that beginning next year the work will be divided more between the three upper classes. In appointing seven
men from the rising Junior class to places on the staff, he said that this would mean that the class
of 1928 would have a number of experienced men to put out their annual. A plan is being worked out
at the present time to get a number of the best men in the present Freshman class interested in working
on the annual. He stated, furthermore, that there was one vacant place on the annual editorial staff which will be
filled early in the fall of this year. The staff as appointed follows:

W. S. Woods, literary editor.
H. M. Austin, associate editor.
J. H. Hall, associate editor.
J. C. Bernhardt, photographic editor.
T. Dillard, assistant photographic editor.
R. C. Platt, assistant photographic editor.
Boyce Martin, athletic editor.
F. C. Withers, contributing editor.
D. W. Hancock, contributing editor.
J. P. McKnight, contributing editor.
J. F. Garrison, chief typist.

C. F. Smith, retiring Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian, under whose regime this paper has been voted the best college newspaper
in North Carolina.

Smith Brings Brilliant Journalistic Career at Davidson to Conclusion

Is Member of Omicron Delta Kappa Fraternity

ENVIABLE RECORD

Held Position of Associate Editor and Managing Editor of The Davidsonian

With the last issue of the editorial staff for the 1925-26 year, The Davidsonian turned over the reins of management
to the new staff for the coming year. The new staff takes charge with this issue, and one of the
most competent, most capable, and most efficient of all the editors of The Davidsonian in its 12 years of life,
passes on his work to a member of the rising Senior class. With the retirement of C. F. Smith, The
Davidsonian loses a faithful worker, a valuable friend, and an editor par excellence. From his Freshman year, Fred Smith has
been actively interested in work on The Davidsonian and various other pub-as well as the applications on the Hill, He
Reporters’ Club. The spring of his Freshman year proved in the preceding months his abilities as a newspaper man. During
his Sophomore year, he was given the Golden Quill for excellence in journalistic work. He was also on the staff
of The Davidsonian as associate editor. In the spring of his Sophomore year, in the elections and appointments for the
following year, Smith was chosen as managing editor of The Davidsonian in recognition of his abilities and his length of
service with the paper. In the fall of his Junior year, he was elected to Sigma Upsilon, a national literary
fraternity, being the only Junior chosen before the regular time that this fraternity bids Juniors. In April 1925, Smith was
chosen as editor (Continued on page 5).

SOPH DAY
A committee of six Sophomores is now completing its plans for Soph Day, an annual affair held at the expense
of the Freshman class. The exact day has not yet been set, but it will probably be about the twentieth
of May. Special regulations will be enforced during the entire day, a shirt fight will be held, and the whole
event will be capped by a huge bonfire and the burning of caps that night. The exact program is being
withheld in order that the surprise may add to the detriment of the Freshmen.

New Editors Take Charge This Week
W. H. Milan announces his staff for the coming year. The entire personnel of the staff have worked hard and
fairly earned their new positions. W. L. Lingle has been selected as managing editor. Lingle has rendered very important aid
in writing and editing The Davidsonian and is entirely capable of filling this office. He is a member of the
Delta Pi Kappa honorary journalistic fraternity and the Reporters’ Club. Lingle has also been chosen as an assistant manager in
football. B. D. Martin and H. B. Hollingsworth have been selected as assistant managing editors. Hollingsworth has been working regularly,
and his ability and steadiness will be invaluable in editing The Davidsonian next year. Hollingsworth is a member of the
Reporters’ Club and the Delta Pi Kappa honorary fraternity. Martin has been very active in journalistic work and was early
bid to the Reporters’ Club. He is a member of the Delta Pi Kappa journalistic fraternity, the Dramatic Club, and
the Spanish Club. Martin is also an assistant manager in basketball and track. He is a member of the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternity. Caldwell Withers has been selected as athletic editor. He has shown his interest and ability in journalistic
work, being a member of the Reporters’ Club. He is also a member of the Beaver Club. (Continued on page
3).

Trackmen Win Over Gamecock Runners
The victory on Saturday added another win to this season's record for the Wildcat cinder artists when they completely outclassed
the runners from the University of South Carolina to the score of 87 to 39. Both the weather and the
track were suitable for a fast and exciting meet. Davidson took 10 of the possible 14 first places, did likewise
in the matter of second places, and then divided evenly on the third places. George Smith, Wildcat dash man, was
the star of the meet, making a total of 13 points. He won first in the 220 and the 440-yard
dashes and second in the 100-yard dash. Gaston, of the University of South Carolina team, was the second-highest scorer, winning
both of the hurdle races and placing third in the high jump. Clement Penn stepped out again in the two-mile
race and broke his own record of the previous week by pacing the distance in the time of 10 minutes
and 25.7 seconds. The whole Davidson team performed well and bids to be among the first in the state in
this sport. The following is a summary of the meet:

100-yard dash—Goodykoontz (Davidson); Smith (Davidson); Brand (Davidson). Time: 10.1 seconds.
220-yard dash—Smith (Davidson); Goodykoontz (Davidson); Verner (South Carolina). Time: 23.7 seconds.
440-yard dash—Smith (Davidson); Brand (Davidson); Pinckney (Davidson). Time: 53.3 seconds.
120 high hurdles—Gaston (South Carolina); Smith (Davidson); Osborne (South Carolina). Time: 17 seconds.
220 low hurdles—Gaston (South Carolina); Sims (Davidson); Thomas (South Carolina). Time: 28.3 seconds.
Half-mile—Stigler (Davidson); Boye (South Carolina); O'Neal (Davidson). Time: 2:08.5.
One-mile run—Rome (South Carolina); Grierson (South Carolina); Williford (Davidson). Time: 4:51.4. (Continued on page 8).

Omicron Delta Kappa to Take in 36 New Men Monday Night
Twenty-Five Prominent Alumni Will be Initiated
ELEVEN STUDENTS
All Have Proven Themselves Leaders in Various Lines of College Activity

The Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honor and leadership fraternity, will hold its annual spring initiation on next
Monday night. Eleven student body leaders of the Senior and Junior classes and 25 prominent alumni of the college will
be initiated at this time. An elaborate public ceremony will take place in Shearer Hall at 8:30 p.m., while the
private exercises will take place at 7:00 p.m. The students receiving invitations are: Seniors: H. B. Huie, W. Vance, and
J. McGarrison; Juniors: J. Pinkney, I. D. Wharton Jr., W. E. Branch, W. A. Christian, W. P. Covington, J. H.
McConnell, and H. M. Austin. Among the alumni who will be initiated are: W. S. Pittsburgh, PA; John D. Baker,
Jacksonville, FL; W. D. Wharton, Smithfield, NC; Dr. Reed Smith, Columbia, SC; J. Pitre, Atlanta, GA; W. S. Smyre, Lenoir,
NC; C. D. Dupuy, Kings Mountain, NC; A. A. McLean, Monroe, NC; J. B. Crayton, Davidson, NC; J. P. Hurley,
Salisbury, NC; J. B. Johnston, Barium Springs, NC; W. H. Finley, North Wilkesboro, NC; R. H. Latane, Greensboro, NC; C.
L. Neisler Jr., Kings Mountain, NC; G. S. Crouch, Charlotte, NC; W. H. Neal, Charlotte, NC; S. T. Henderson, Charlotte,
NC; A. L. James, Charlotte, NC; G. E. Wilson Jr., Charlotte, NC; W. H. Williamson, Los Angeles, CA; T. P.
Robinson, Greensboro, NC; and Prof. Archibald Currie, Davidson College. Each of the student candidates for initiation is numbered among the
premier leaders in one or more of the various student body activities. (Continued on page 3).

W. H. Williamson Endowment to Davidson
$60,000 is Gift to College for Installation of New Professor’s Chair

Through the generosity of William Holt Williamson, a deceased member of the class of '86, Davidson College will enjoy the
benefits of a new professorship, to be inaugurated at the opening of the term 1926-27. In Mr. Williamson's recently probated
will, the largest gift was found to be $60,000, which was left to Davidson College, with the provision that it
would be invested and that the income be used to endow a chair. The nature of this chair is to
be selected at the next meeting of the college board of trustees. It is to be called the “William H.
Williamson Professorship,” in honor of the donor. Numerous other gifts were provided for in Mr. Williamson’s will, the principal of
which is to go to the Thompson Orphanage of Charlotte and to the Episcopal Diocese of North Carolina. William Holt
Williamson was born at Graham, NC, in 1867. He came to Davidson College at the age of 15 and graduated
with many honors with the class of 1886. He was a member of the Phi Society and held many important
offices in college. Afterwards, Mr. Williamson moved to Raleigh, NC, where he became president of the Pilot Cotton Mills and
also president of one of the leading banks. Six months ago, Mr. Williamson moved to Charlotte, residing (Continued on page
2).
