THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 11, 1926

ENTHUSIASM MOUNTS
(Continued from page 1)

of entertainment will be arranged for the afternoon. The Y. M. C. A. is fitting up Phi Hall downstairs into a splendid reception room where the boys will be free to take their girls. Refreshments will be served there at intervals at the Y. M. C. A.’s expense. With this co-operation on the part of the secretary of the Y. M. C. A. and the efforts of the members of the Junior Class, success seems inevitable for Junior Speaking this year. The number that is to remain on the hill is apparently larger than heretofore and an abundance of the necessary “Fire” will be here and use as their base of operations.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5059 Residence, 1937
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Telephones
12 South Tryon Street
Office 3171 Res 3419-W
Over Garibaldi & Bruns

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.
Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST
Charlotte, N.C.

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
24 South Tryon St. Upstairs
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Telephone 3528

CHAMPION Electric Shoe Fixery
YOUR SHOES FIXED BETTER
Between White Drug Company and post office
DAVIDSON, N. C.

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

YELLOW CAB CO.
PHONE 24 ANY HOUR OF THE 24

Alumni Notes

Leopold A. Chamberliss, ‘18, has been made vice-president and publicity manager of the Fidelity Union Trust Company of New York City. In making this announcement, the company speaks highly of Mr. Chamberliss.

Announcement has been received that Mr. Green Penn, ex-'21, has been married to Miss Constance Slade in New York City. Following a wedding trip in Florida, Mr. and Mrs. Penn will make their home in Madison, N. C.

Norman Richards, ’20, of Liberty Hill, S. C., was married on February 4th, to Miss Lucas, of Columbia, S. C. The ceremony was performed by Dr. C. M. Richards, of Davidson.

Hon. W. F. Stevenson, ’85, member of the National House of Representatives from South Carolina, has accepted an invitation to address the students of Union Seminary at Richmond. Mr. Stevenson is a man of unusual ability and is a careful student of the religious forces that have gone to the making of our country.

William Doub-Kerr, former student at Davidson, graduate of the University, is now a lecturer at the University of Paris, as the guest of the French government. Mr. Doub-Kerr lectures at the University on American life and letters and in addition to his regular activities, he is giving a series of talks to various clubs on American culture and civilization.

Rev. J. A. McQueen, ‘05, of Rockingham, has resigned his pastorate to enter Union Theological Seminary for graduate study.

Local Professors Speak in Concord

Dr. Harding and Prof. Foreman went to Concord Sunday, January 31st, to speak at the Second Presbyterian Church and the Jackson Training School. In the morning, they addressed the adult classes of the Second Presbyterian Church Sunday School, Dr. Harding speaking to the men and Prof. Foreman to the women. Both men spoke on “Stewardship” as the members of this Sunday School have been considering that subject for a number of weeks.

Besides speaking to the Sunday School, Prof. Foreman preached at this church in the morning. In the afternoon, Dr. Harding made a talk to the boys at the Jackson Training School on the subject of “The Life of Samson.” This service was especially interesting and the boys' singing was highly commended.

“I hear your father has kicked Bill out.”
“Yes, he’s been footing my Bill for some time.”

Charlotte, N. C.
E. K. REGEN

THE MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
Synonymous for excellent board and good service---at just the right price
Davidsonians and their guests always welcome
“Feeds,” “Smokes” and Banquets given special attention
MANAGERS
E. F. BOHANNON
H. L. SHAW, Jr.

Sallie, Irene and Mary Is Feature Picture For Students This Saturday

Garrison Books Former Stage Success for Week-end Entertainment

“Sally, Irene, and Mary” is the picture to be shown at the gym Saturday night. Based on the great stage hit of the same name, it gives a vivid representation of stage life on Broadway. Sally, played by Constance Bennett, Irene by Joan Crawford, and Mary by Sally O'Neil are headliners in a musical show in New York. With a view to cementing their friendship, they meet at the luxurious apartment kept for Sally by a millionaire admirer. Here Irene and Mary get their first taste of the haute monde. Irene, dazzled by the glamor and worldliness of it all, loses her heart to an artist who is little, if any, impressed by her. The new environment leaves Mary unchanged, but she innocently causes Sally's supporter to fall desperately in love with her. So when her eastside sweetheart, Jimmie Dugan, a fine and noble young plumber, continues to censure her theatrical activities, she accepts the millionaire’s proposal of marriage. Meanwhile, Irene, spurred by the artist, recklessly elopes with a college youth and, in an accident, is killed. This makes Mary realize the folly of her engagement to the millionaire, and she returns to her own Jimmie. Snappy dance numbers by Panechion and Marco feature the picture and it is said that “Sally, Irene and Mary” has the most decorative bevy of beauties, in the roles of chorus and show girls, that have ever been assembled for a picture.

Other masterpieces are scheduled for the following weeks. On February 20th, “Shamrock.” On the 27th “Abe Lincoln.” On March 6th Marion Davies in “Lights of Old Broadway” and then on the 13th and 20th “Womanhandled” and “The Desert Flower.”

DAVIDSON SONGSTERS
(Continued from page 1)

McRae, the first violinist, who was seriously ill earlier in the week. The appearance of Caligan, already referred to above, was the next number of the program. Following this came two songs given by the club. These two, the “Soldier's Chorus,” and “Keep On Hoping,” made a decided hit with the students. The jazz orchestra, headed by B. T. Crayton, next performed with the excellence of the best. The quartet, consisting of M. M. Lockhart, D. G. Wilson, J. S. Foster, and D. M. Calhoun, gave several old-time melodies that were one of the decisive factors in the success of the performance. Besides these well-known songs, these men who had earlier in the week sung over radio station WBT from Charlotte, delightfully entertained with other popular numbers of a more recent origin. “The Beetle and the Flower,” a most difficult piece, was next presented with distinction by the chorus. An unusual feature of a program of this kind was the next feature of the program, in the appearance of the Mandolin club. Roger Womack, Proctor Thompson, Dick Kane and Worzel, the club's personnel, played with a unity and precision in giving the audience a delightful group of selections. A selection from the opera “Rigoletto,” “Unto a Lonely Abode Diverted,” was the next classical number to be given by the chorus of the club. This selection from this famous Italian opera was presented in an admirable manner. Amid much appropriate applause, the jazz orchestra appeared next on the program. This form of syncopation again proved to be the outstanding hit of the night. The “Creation Hymn” followed with the whole club.taking part. The next number was the reappearance of the quartet. These musicians sang with the same gusto with which they performed in their initial appearance. The closing numbers on this interesting program of high-class entertainment were two appropriate selections of more than usual note. “College Melody,” just a group of songs that the title implies, was presented by the chorus. This proved to be the best of the several songs given by the entire club. The closing piece was “O! Davidson.” This program is very much the same as the one to be given by the club on its Southern tour, which begins the latter part of the month.

J. WILSON STITT
(Continued from page 1)

Nine-tenths of the business of today is done on credit, which is fundamentally nothing but promises. Marriage is based on the promise of the two parties to each other and not on the vows taken before a minister or a magistrate. The spiritual life, as is the business and social life, is based on a promise. This promise is between God and man. When man has, through a promise to God, completely submitted his life to Him, his life is from that time on organized by it, his life pivots on the promise. Examples of this change of life are found in Abraham, Jacob, Isaiah, George Fox, John Wesley, and St. Francis. The pivotal promise is a continual state of mind, a relationship between God and man.

The second suggestion is prayer. Prayer is the concentration of the whole soul on God. Concentration makes the intellectual life possible. In Mr. Wilson's own words, “There is no record where any being attained spiritual life without silent, habitual, secret prayer.” Man hungers for God and finds Him in communion with Him. God's presence is always with man. He only needs to seek to feel it. The speaker said that he would guarantee that any man who prayed habitually for six months would feel a change in his life. By prayer, he explained, he did not mean “saying prayers” or reading them but soul communion with the Creator.

The third suggestion is Devotion to Humanity. Christian history began with devotion to humanity. Christ lived when Rome ruled the earth, the world was a slave pen, and men were “dirt cheap.” Christianity is not an “ism” or a theory but service to humanity. It is not refraining from swearing or reading a bit of theology at intervals but a working love for the people of the globe. Christ Himself, when He stated His mission on this earth, said, “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He hath appointed me to preach the Gospel to the poor, He hath sent me to heal the broken-hearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised.” (Luke 4:18). His followers are on this earth to carry on His mission.

At a special meeting held in Shearer Hall the afternoon of Saturday, February 6th, the Hon. J. Stitt Wilson, former mayor of Berkeley, Cal., prominent lecturer and socialist, addressed the students of Davidson College on the scriptural approach to social and economic problems of all time. Treating of but one of the many aspects of what he calls “the voluminous infinitude of God's Program for Man,” Mr. Wilson answered the question, “Is there a social message in the Bible?” with direct recourse to the Bible itself and actual citations from the Old Testament and the New. This followed on the hope expressed by Mr. Wilson that he might speak on the change in the attitude of the Scientist since the beginning of the Twentieth Century. The irreligious during the past century felt themselves upheld by Science. Today the reverse is rapidly and happily coming into being. “The time will come,” said he, “when science will be one of the bulwarks of religion.”

Mr. Wilson next considered the solution of social maladjustments in Egypt immediately preceding the Exodus, as related in the Book of Exodus. The Israelites had cried out against the physical bondage and oppression they were suffering. Mr. Wilson's vivid presentation of the calling of Moses brought forth with startling emphasis the way God cares for human beings; His eternal mercy, justice, and loving care.

Turning to the second great division of the Scriptures, the Book of the Prophets, Mr. Wilson emphasized the fact that “Nothing of that time can compare with the ethical and social message of the Prophets.” But what was the great message of the Prophets? The prophecies of Old Testament times were commissioned to “speak for God” to the people. At times they did predict coming events, but the burden of their exhortations fastened upon this, that “God does not want religious ceremonial.” Isaiah in particular spoke strongly on the vastness of oblations alone. The fundamental truth, as true today as then, was expressed by Mr. Wilson in these words: “Religion can offer nothing as a substitute for human justice.”

Mr. Wilson completed the address with an appeal to remember justice, mercy, and faith in all relations with our fellowman. The historic example of Christ and His calling down woe on the Pharisees for their failure in this commission formed the forceful climax of Mr. Wilson's address.

On Sunday afternoon Mr. Wilson spoke to the Ministerial Band, making a plea for the Christians of the world today to get down to actual work, to bring religion and Christianity up from the decline which it is now undergoing. He outlined religion from Christ's death up to the present time, showing the declines and rises as they came, and giving the causes of each.

Y. M. C. A. Plans to Send Out Numerous Speakers
“Y” Lays Plans for Boys to Cover Large Territory

On Sunday, January 31st, the Davidson Y. M. C. A., working in connection with the Concord Presbytery, sent men to fill pulpits in three small churches: Stony Point, Shiloh, and New Salem. On account of the unfavorable condition of roads, it was possible to hold only one of the three intended services, H. T. Franklin being the speaker at the morning service at Stony Point.

In regard to this work, letters have been sent by the “Y” to several churches, high Y's, and like organizations in the vicinity with a view to sending out further deputations. It is also expected that during the spring men will be sent from here as speakers at men’s and older boys’ conferences. There have been ten deputations sent by the “Y” so far this year, and it seems certain that there will be more than that number sent between this date and the close of the term.

John Yona has been occupied for the past year in the interest of the Near East Relief. He has been traveling all over the country with headquarters at 1106 Stroh Building, Detroit, Mich. He is planning to re-enter Davidson in the fall of 1926.

Hugh A. Query, ’09, is editor of the Gastonia Daily Gazette.

A. C. Ormond, Jr., ’22, is a third-year medical student at Harvard University. His address is Norfolk House, 14 John Elliot Square, Roxbury, Boston, Mass.

K. B. Thompson, ’14, is preaching at Magnolia, Miss.

Golf Clubs 50 per cent off on FIRE SALE!
Baby Dimple balls at $4.50 a dozen
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Company
Bags Balls all clubs and bags

Visit Our New Fountain When in Charlotte
Tryon Drug Co.

Hollingsworth Nunnally Whitman Candies