THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1926

Professor Expresses Views of Faculty on R.O.T.C. Unit Here

I have never heard a member of the faculty indicate that in his opinion the R.O.T.C. should be discontinued at
Davidson College; nor do I know of anyone who would be likely to express such a judgment at this time.
I have heard several members express themselves as approving, but wishing that certain changes could be made. Others have indicated
unqualified approval. In any group of 30 or more thinking men, there is likely to be some difference of opinion
as to ways, means, and methods, even when all agree on the general principle. It is true in this case.

Here and elsewhere the question is raised as to the propriety of maintaining a unit of the R.O.T.C. at a
church college or any other college, when there is a universal longing for world peace in this country, and the
permanent abolition of war. I would reply that permanent world peace is not in sight, and so far as we
can see now, in spite of our hopes and prayers, the future bears a close resemblance to the past. Our
national government pursues the policy of reasonable preparedness, and calls upon all good citizens to co-operate in any reasonable manner.
At most, a college, by maintaining an R.O.T.C. unit, is making some slight preparation for a possible national emergency which
involves us all. If an accident occurred to me personally, I hope that it will not be necessary to send
too far or wait too long for someone who can render at least some slight degree of first aid. That
is all we are trying to do in that direction at Davidson, with some financial encouragement from our government.

Does the R.O.T.C. foster the spirit of war? I cannot see that members of the R.O.T.C. have any more of
the war spirit than private citizens of Davidson and neighboring towns. When I discover such a spirit, I shall be
in favor of discontinuing the unit. Every college such as Davidson must have a system of physical education that will
reach every member of the student body. No perfect system has yet been devised anywhere. In colleges that have a
system of physical coaches, with compulsory exercises, so far as my knowledge goes, there is more objection and criticism on
the part of the students than there is of the R.O.T.C. idea at Davidson. The R.O.T.C. gets all students of
the lower classes out for a certain amount of physical exercise and instruction as to their physical well-being, and in
this, it certainly surpasses any other system of physical training yet devised at Davidson. The man who undertakes to introduce
a substitute that equals the R.O.T.C. in this particular will have a difficult task.

The democratic spirit developed by the organization seems to me a very fine thing to have on the college campus.
Every member of the student body receives consideration.

Debaters Selected For P.C. Forensic Contest

Stewart, Pullen, and McCutcheon Chosen—Davidson in World Court Debate

Shortly before the Easter holidays, the preliminaries were held for the varsity debating team to go against Presbyterian College. Davidson
has the affirmative side of the query: Resolved, That the United States should enter the World Court. There were 11
men in the tryout; those winning the coveted places on the team were: D. H. Stewart, E. T. Pullen, and
T. G. McCutcheon, with W. A. Christian as alternate.

Don Stewart was on the freshman team three years ago that defeated the freshman team of the University of North
Carolina. He has been prominent in literary society work and was a strong contender for the Junior Oratorical medal. He
is a Metrophilian.

E. T. Pullen is one of the most forceful speakers on the campus and has been active in literary work
since he has been in Davidson College. Pullen is president of the Metrophilian Society.

Gordon McCutcheon is a consistent worker in all literary work of the campus, being one of the outstanding contributors to
the magazine. He is a member of the Eumenean Literary Society.

W. A. Christian has been alternate on two varsity debating teams this year. He is a member of, and has
held various offices in, the Eu Society. He is a leader in campus activities and was recently elected as president
of the Y.M.C.A. for next year. All four of these men are members of the Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic
fraternity.

The question will be debated on April 27th in the auditorium of Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S.C. The men trying
out for places on the team besides those making places were: C. G.Davis, J. P., McKnight, A. B., Williford, Tyree
Dillard, W. H. Hancock, F. D. Daniel, L. K. Pritchett, J. Lawdon Williams, C. Barrington, according to his aptitude in
this particular line. It is a great thing to have each student, even the timid one, in a cooperative undertaking,
working side by side in the open with his fellow students. The R.O.T.C. has given no small impetus to interest
in music on the campus. Everyone who can play a wind instrument of any kind is encouraged to compete for
a position in the band, and liberal opportunity is given for practice with musical instruments which are much in demand
on all kinds of public occasions. Engaged in teamwork with his fellows, and eventually having the opportunity for leadership, anything
in the line of hardware, groceries, dry goods, millinery, notions, rugs, and furniture.

Davidson College has been very fortunate from the beginning in the kind of men sent to us by the U.S.
Government. These army officers, as a rule, have been men of a fine type, as is the case today, entering
into the spirit of the campus in a very wholesome way and making a valuable contribution to the life of
the college. We would miss them seriously, were they to leave us. Certain suggestions have been made by members of
the faculty as to a few desirable changes. We feel that there is great need for suitable grounds for the
activities of the R.O.T.C. The central campus does not seem to be the place for it, and serious questions can
be raised as to the propriety of using Richardson Field for this purpose. Here is a problem the college and
the R.O.T.C. will have to work out in the near future.

There is a feeling in the faculty that more stress should be laid upon the intellectual side of the work
of the R.O.T.C., notably in the upper classes, than we understand to be the case at present. As one who
specialized in history during his university career, the writer is well aware that military history is a great phase of
the subject, involving geography on a great scale, biography, sciences of several kinds, legislation, diplomacy, governmental organization, etc. I am
not sure to what extent it may be practicable to stress in a greater degree the intellectual side of the
work, but I am convinced that there is a large intellectual field awaiting cultivation by an R.O.T.C. unit, involving much
material that is valuable to the student interested in broad liberal culture.

I am convinced that all members of the faculty are keenly appreciative of the strong points of the R.O.T.C. at
Davidson, and of the efforts of all parties concerned, and we shall watch with interest any progress recorded in this,
just as in all other phases of college life and work.

Davidson College has been very fortunate from the beginning in the kind of men sent to us by the U.S.
Government. These army officers, as a rule, have been men of a fine type, as is the case today, entering
into the spirit of the campus in a very wholesome way and making a valuable contribution to the life of
the college. We would miss them seriously, were they to leave us. Certain suggestions have been made by members of
the faculty as to a few desirable changes. We feel that there is great need for suitable grounds for the
activities of the R.O.T.C. The central campus does not seem to be the place for it, and serious questions can
be raised as to the propriety of using Richardson Field for this purpose. Here is a problem the college and
the R.O.T.C. will have to work out in the near future.

The fact that we have again been awarded the contract for the handsome 500-page yearbook of the United States Military
Academy evidences an organization and service that can work with you equally well. Our personnel are all college men who
know and appreciate your particular ideas and problems. We will appreciate an opportunity to work with you. A $25,000 Government
contract—a solid carload shipment of handsome books—placed with this company in the face of severe Northern competition.

The QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

When it’s the night of the season’s most festive dance—and Mimi, herself, has consented to go—when in a last moment
before starting you thank your good fortune—have a Camel!

When the night of the famous prom has come—and you contemplate your luck and your greatness—have a Camel! For Camel
adds its own romance to every memorable event. Camels never tire the taste, never leave a cigaretty aftertaste. When you
light a Camel, you may know you are smoking the world’s mellowest cigarette. So this night, as you fare boldly
forth to society’s smartest and gayest affair—learn then how sympathetic, how really fine and friendly a cigarette can be. Have
a Camel!

Our highest wish, if you do not yet know Camel quality, is that you try them. We invite you to
compare Camels with any cigarette made at any price.

R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

Into the making of this one cigarette goes all of the ability of the world’s largest organization of expert tobacco
men. Nothing is too good for Camels. The choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos. The most skillful blending. The most scientific
package. No other cigarette made is like Camels. No better cigarette can be made. Camels are the overwhelming choice of
experienced smokers.

© 1926
