THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1926

PLAYING THE GAME

With Withers Severed Relations Other Speculation Duke Game today

Ever since the break between Davidson and Presbyterian College of South Carolina in regards to athletic relations loomed to the
front the early part of the fall, this column has remained silent on the subject. But due to recent developments
and startling statements derogatory to the reputation of Davidson, we are forced to cease our concealed guffaws and break forth
in unceasing laughter.

The Blue Stocking, the weekly publication of P. C., in one of its recent issues, quotes from the correspondence between
Dr. W. W. Wood, chairman of Davidson’s faculty on athletics, and Dr. H. E. Sturgeon, faculty chairman of athletics of
the South Carolina institution, in reference to the severing of relations between the two schools. Dr. Wood stated that it
was the feeling prevalent at Davidson that due to the “animosity” existing between the schools, that it seemed wise for
Davidson and P. C. not to meet next year in football. He added, “We hope, however, that in a few
years the two teams may be able to get together again.”

Dr. Sturgeon, in reply, said in part, “We thought that the real trouble was that someone on the outside, who
had underestimated the strength of the P. C. team, had possibly lost something on the game, for which we did
not think either institution was responsible.” We wonder just who there could be “on the outside” in a strong enough
position to bring such pressure to bear upon Davidson that would cause her to take such steps? In the same
letter, the Presbyterian professor stated that it was their presumption that Davidson would not desire to complete the contract for
two years involving the freshman teams of the schools. “This is agreeable to Presbyterian College.”

Dr. Wood answered this last item by replying: “As to the freshman football contract, you may rest assured that we
would like to play this game if you desire it, and you can be sure that your team will receive
the same ‘fair treatment, etc.’” And then, even then, the oracle of public opinion down at Clinton burst all bounds
by saying that: “It is universally believed in Clinton that the action of Davidson was due entirely to fear that
the Wildcats would lose the 1927 encounter. Presbyterian College students likewise resent Davidson’s action in holding Presbyterian College to her
contract for today’s freshman football game.”

We have heard numerous rumors to the effect that P. C. will not appear on the schedules of several South
Carolina teams next year. The University of South Carolina announced a tentative list of contests for the 1927 season recently
and nowhere could be found mention of P. C. The same applies to Furman’s tentative schedule. Why keep on? But
in stopping this wrangle (we hope for all time) we quote from a letter of Dr. Woods, and claim the
same feeling that is exhibited in his letter: “In conclusion, let me say that Davidson holds its sister institution in
high regard and that I hope our varsity football teams will be able to get together again in a few
years.”

The game today closes the season for both Davidson and Duke. The result has direct bearing on the state championship
race for Davidson. Should the Wildcats lose, they would be definitely out of the running, that is, unless State springs
another surprise and wallops Wake Forest. Last fall, the day before Carolina beat Davidson, the Wolfpack from Raleigh furnished the
most startling upset of the entire season when they trounced the Deacons. Indications point to a much different result today.

The Duke Blue Devils have developed more than any other state team. And, too, they have had the bad end
of many a break this fall, losing to both State and Carolina by small margins and battling Columbia University to
a standstill for three periods. Several of Davidson’s varsity stars watched the Devils run wild last Friday against Wofford. The
Nicotines took the meat from the Terriers by a larger score than Davidson was able to negotiate at Spartanburg last
September. The season sings its swan song and A Noise From Clinton of the standings of the various teams as
far has played.

Today’s Games to Decide Flag Race

The football games in North Carolina this past week had little or no bearing on the race for state championship.
Davidson and Carolina were idle, resting up and getting into shape for their Thanksgiving Day tussles; Wake Forest overwhelmed Guilford
in a game of no importance in the figuring up as their respective claims on the state title go; State
lost to South Carolina in a rather close scrap; Duke downed Wofford by a decisive score. This last victory of
Duke’s has caused her stock to take a considerable jump in all predictions concerning the Davidson-Duke fracas scheduled for Thanksgiving
Day. It is still to this game and to the Wake Forest-State tussle that all fans are looking as the
deciding factors in the exciting finish of the hotly contested race for the title. Davidson and Wake Forest are now
tied in the lead for this honor. Should either of these teams lose one of these games, the other will
very probably be granted the decision. Thus these games are very important to all parties concerned. And judging from the
other upsets that have occurred this season, there is a possibility that all dope may take a tumble. At least
no one seems to be at all confident of victory, but each team realizes that it will take all they
have to win.

The standing of the other teams is the same as last week. Carolina stands next to Davidson and Wake Forest
in third place, having lost to two of the “Big Five” teams. In the next place is State with only
one victory among the leading five colleges. The last place goes to Duke, whose team has lost to all four
of the big state teams which it has played. Their last chance of redeeming themselves will come Thanksgiving in the
game with Davidson, the crucial game for the Wildcats in their hopes for the championship.

DAVIDSON TO MEET DUKE

To bring the matter a little closer home, let us remember that Duke lost to Carolina not because of an
inferior team, but on account of a blocked punt which, with the aid of Old Lady Luck, gave the victory
to the Tar Heels. Many outstanding individuals go to make up the Duke eleven. There is Thompson, a big 195-pound
tackle. This man’s performance this year has been out of the ordinary. And then there are Grigg and Kelly on
the flanks. Grigg has been chosen for the all-state team for the past three years. He formerly played tackle but
was shifted to end because of his evident ability as a flankman. Coach James De Hart uses the Warner system
and the gamblers to date seem to favor the Duke-Warner-DeHart trio.

The Wildcats are in good shape, since beating Carolina. For a number of their players, the fracas to be staged
Thanksgiving will be their last shot at football. The Wildcats are out to win from Duke. The probable line-up for
both teams is listed below:

Duke. Position. Davidson.
Religerern PinckneyThompson Lincoln | POUCR! Cesk nocucnce (Cy cease Mitchell | Hintetecsuacsa Genter” 22222: McConnell Banssee isc n3 oo RG
Boggs Weatherby 1 SG Bile Ritchie Cotte 15g Deni Bohannon IWieavericcs saecos O By asiiee Sappenfield Hollingsworth Wells Muttle IRD
sos ck oe So ae Grey Bolicht2s2 22255 22s HB Leggette Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE”
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS Mooresville, N. C. the all-state teams appear. CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

Wildkittens End Season With Exciting Victory Over Blue Hose Fresh Matthews, Bohard and Hammett Show Good Form in 32-13 Win
Over Presbyterians

The Davidson Wildkittens defeated the Presbyterian College freshmen last Saturday, 32-13, on Richardson Field. Matthews was the star of the
game, scoring four of the five touchdowns made by Davidson. Mills, P. C. quarterback, and Galloway, halfback, were outstanding players.
Mills was responsible for all their first downs through forward passes. Making one first down after the other, Brohard and
Matthews smashed through the line on off-tackle plays. Kugler turned in a neat game at the quarter position for Davidson,
and Hammett, substituting for Kugler in the last half, played a good game. Hunt, Carson and McConnell played well in
the line, breaking through the opposition time after time. Reynolds, halfback, returned one kick-off for 30 yards and made other
nice gains. P. C. had a line much lighter than Davidson, but either team seemed to gain at will, especially
during the first half. This game was the final encounter for the season, making a total of two games won
and three lost. The Kittens won from Furman and P. C. and lost to State, Duke, and Blue Ridge. Freshman
letter men have not yet been announced but their names will probably be made public next week by Coach “Monk”
Mattox. Several members of the freshman team this year have shown promise of winning places on the varsity next fall.

NOTED JOURNALIST (Continued from page 1)

has been only partially fulfilled in this issue of The Chameleon. The magazine is well-balanced in its five-fold division of
short story, play, essay, verse and book review. The two short stories are workmanlike in structure and may be criticized
only for amateurishness, inadequacy in details. One is a quietly satiric picture of college life; the other is a horror
story. The tone of the first is more carefully sustained than that of the second. The horror story is more
imitative and suffers in comparison with its models. The play, “Beyond,” is a philosophical discussion between two college men in
regard to an age-old problem. It is frankly closet drama, possibly a little top-heavy with quotation. The atmosphere is well
sustained throughout. The essays are laudable attempts at the very difficult form of light informal essay. “My Style-ish Prejudices” is
a rambling but thoroughly charming discussion of matters of style, a little lavish perhaps in the use of quotations. “Superlatives”
is a well-constructed comment on an incident observed during a trip through the West. “Sleep” suffers through compression. The essay
is good so far as it goes but needs more development. The verse in the magazine is varied in form,
and, on the whole, pleasing in execution. The best of it is in the two translations: one from the German;
one from the Spanish. The group of sonnets shows command of the sonnet form. “Lucita” is a good little dramatic
monologue in irregular meter. The other verse is pretty but undistinguished—possibly here amateurishness is most evident. The book reviews are
timely and interesting. They are better possibly in selection of books for review than in the reviews themselves. On the
whole the impression produced by the Chameleon may be summarized thus: a professional note in appearance and arrangement; excellence in
intention; partial success in execution; great promise for the future.

ATHLETIC AUTHORITIES (Continued from page 1)

also had a call from Mr. J. Max Hendrix, prominent Davidson alumnus of Greensboro, regarding the game. He said that
he would be interested in such a game if it was decided upon, but that it was his personal opinion
that such a game would be in opposition to the policy of Davidson College as regards athletics. Coach Younger had
nothing to say when questioned about the game. He said that the final word in making up the schedule was
not his, and would not commit himself. His stand is to act as those in charge decide is best and
right. Although not first hand, Mr. Lawrence Wilkinson, promoter of athletic contests in Charlotte and member of the Athletic Council
from the Alumni Association, has been quoted as being opposed to the proposed game. Dr. Sentelle told a reporter of
The Davidsonian that personally he was against the contest in the main from the viewpoint of the effect it would
have on the team and the student body as a whole. In brief he said, “I do not feel that
the strain and stress that the team would undergo and the consequent distraction the entire student body would be liable
to, justifies a post-season game. The schedules of Southern colleges are much longer than those of the Northern schools, and
any further promulgation would be sure to bring undesirable results. Several cities in the state have been suggested for this
proposed game, but so far Greensboro and Charlotte seem to be the chief contenders. At present the prospects for it
are rather dim with Davidson faculty and prominent alumni opposed. The opinion of the student body, although rather hard to
ascertain, seems to be against any post-season game.

STATE FORENSIC COUNCIL (Continued from page 1)

among the colleges of North Carolina on a higher plane and do much to promote the oratorical affairs of the
colleges themselves. It will also make plans whereby the debating schedule of its members will be strengthened.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP The Most Convenient For Davidson Men

Lance Quality Products Delivered same day made. All dealers LANCE PACKING COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

GOOD ICE CREAM Statesville, N. C.

Union Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VIRGINIA Introducing to the readers of The Davidsonian Rev. Edward Mack, D. D., Ph.D., LL.D. (A.B.,
A.M. and LL.D. Davidson College) Professor of Hebrew and the Interpretation of the Old Testament. UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
