Type 6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 11, 1926

Seventy Players Report For Football Practice
Coaches Tilson and Mattox Drilling. Large Number of Varsity Aspirants

Under the direction of Coaches Tilson and Mattox, some eighty men have been going through the rudiments of fundamental football on the practice fields for the past week. With a nucleus of about 13 letter men around which the Wildcat machine of next fall is to be built, these mentors, ably assisted by several Seniors who will be sadly missed during the coming season, are rapidly whipping into shape three or four creditable teams. Following the custom of several years, the squad has been divided into two groups which will be pitted against each other after a week or two more of hard training. Last spring when these men had been through three weeks of grueling training, a contest with Hickory Athletic Club was played on Richardson field. Although Davidson won this game by a top-heavy score, it gave the coaches an insight into the progress made during this spring period. Although a number of men have found the pace too stiff, the outstanding performers of both the varsity and freshman squads of the past season are still answering the roll call. Scrimmage will be in order the latter part of the week, the coaches then will be given an opportunity to see what progress has been made. The Wildcats of a season or more, aided by this year’s freshmen, will be cogs in the same type of machine that has always been the custom of Davidson.

A. P. Ormond, ’21, who graduated from the Pennsylvania Medical School last June, is serving his internship at the Philadelphia General Hospital. His friends may address him at 34th and Pine Sts., Philadelphia.

Fresh Country Vegetables
Staple and Fancy Groceries
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
Davidson, N. C.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see
FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

PLACE SEATS SOON
The class of '26 will give the college eight benches as their annual gift, which are to be placed between the trees along the walks. The Galloway Terra Cotta Company, of Philadelphia, will design the benches especially for Davidson. They will be of the Grecian style of architecture, having neither backs nor arm rests. The tops of the benches will be made of slabs of white limestone. The supports will be of red terra cotta. Each bench will be 54 inches long, 20 inches high, and 20 inches wide. “1926” will be engraved on top of each one. It is hoped and expected that they will be installed here before Junior Speaking. Probably these benches will be of great service to the students and their visitors of the fairer sex during the parties which are scheduled to be held during Junior Speaking.

Shooting Began In Fourth Corps Area On Monday Evening
Beginning last Monday the Fourth Corps Area Gallery Competition began at Davidson with 15 men composing the Davidson team. The team is composed of T. G. Purcell, team captain, who led the team in the tryouts with a score of 91; W. A. Alexander, Julian Lake, G. W. Crawford, C. W. Taylor, all of whom tied for second place with scores of 89 each; A. W. Alexander, C. J. Albright, R. G. Abernathy, E. E. Brown, J. B. Webb, J. M. Gudger, K. P. Maddox, G. McMillan, J. Overton, and T. L. Short. The Fourth Corps Area competition is held annually, each team shooting on its own range, and the final scores sent into Fourth Corps Area headquarters. A cup is the trophy awarded to the team having the highest score, and the Wildcats are trying hard this year to take the cup away from the present corps area champions, the University of Florida. Competition for the marksmanship trophy is always keen. Among the colleges competing are such schools as The Citadel, Clemson, Louisiana State, Mississippi A. & M., U. of Florida, Davidson, North Carolina State, Georgia Tech, Auburn, U. of Georgia, and other representative schools in this corps area. The competition here will be fired by stages following the schedule shown:
1st Stage: Feb. 8th to 13th—2 sighting shots, 10 record shots, prone; 2 sighting shots, 10 record shots, sitting.
2nd Stage: Feb. 15th to 20th—2 sighting shots, 10 record shots, prone; 2 sighting shots, 10 record shots, kneeling.
3rd Stage: Feb. 22nd to 27th—2 sighting shots, 10 record shots, prone; 2 sighting shots, 10 record shots, standing.
4th Stage: March 1st to 6th—2 sighting shots, 10 record shots, prone; 2 sighting shots, 10 record shots, prone.
It will be noted that firing takes place on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays. The range is in the basement of the gymnasium and the time of firing is from 2:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Members of the student body are invited to witness the shoot but are requested to keep quiet so as not to disturb the members of the team. Considerable concentration is required in order to enable a marksman to make his best score, and, when the nerves are at high tension, the same ethics apply as do when a golfer is putting.

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

INSURANCE
We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price of not carrying it.
Insurance Department.
McA. CARSON, Mgr. ('13)
Independence Trust Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

Track Team Will Begin Practice on Twentieth
Only Five Letter Men Return to Form Nucleus for 1926 Team

Track practice for the 1926 season will begin about the 20th of February, according to an announcement made by Coach Tex Tilson last Monday. This will be rather an advance practice, since a number of the squad are out for the basketball and wrestling teams. These men will not report until the season of the other sports are closed. The members of the cross-country squad have been practicing all year and participated in several meets last fall, while all the squad had a short fall practice for several weeks after school opened in September. With only five letter men back, Coach Tilson will have a number of positions to be filled by new material. Several others on the squad last year, but who failed to make their letters, are also back. The letter men who will be eligible for the team this year are: Captain Anderson, Williford, Goodykoontz, Brand, and Calhoun. There are also two men from the fresh track team of last year, these men are Harrison and Penn. Pinkney, Bohannon, Parker, and Wharton are men who were on the squad last year but who failed to make their letter. In the pole vault, Captain Anderson will be the best contender since he has made his letter for two years. He is also to be counted on in the hurdles. In the dashes, Goodykoontz and Brand will be out again. In the four-forty, these men along with Parker and Pinkney, are the men most favored to make a creditable showing. Parker and Pinkney will also be entered in the eight-eighty. In the mile and in the two-mile Williford will be back to add another star to hisName. And along with him will be Penn, who made his monogram on the fresh track team last year. In the field events, the team is weaker than in the track events. Calhoun is back to enter in the high-jump, and he is the only letterman, except for Anderson in the pole vault, who is back to enter into competition this year. In the broad jump, Harrison is expected to make the best showing of the new candidates since he made his monogram on the fresh team last year. In the shot-put, there is no letterman, as in the discus and javelin. In the discus, Bohannon, who was on the squad last year but failed to make his letter, should be able to profit by his last year’s experience and make a letter this year. In all, the team seems rather weak from loss of men, but Coach Tilson will have five varsity men around whom he can mold his team. There will be a great number of positions where new candidates will be able to make their letter.

Students to Hear Popular Speaker. A deputation from the Louisville Theological Seminary will have charge of next Sunday's vesper services. Buck Currie, Tink Taylor, and another whose name has not been announced, will speak at the Y. M. C. A.’s regular Sunday night service in preparation for Dr. Dunbar Ogden, the following Sunday. Following Dr. Ogden, arrangements have been made for several other fine speakers. Among these are Mr. C. F. Norfleet, president of the Winston-Salem Billy Sunday Club; Dr. A. A. McGeachy, pastor of the Presbyterian Church, Charlotte; Dr. T. Gillespie, president of the Seminary, Columbia, S. C.; Howard Rondthaler, president of College, Winston-Salem; and Mr. W. S. Rankin, of Charlotte, who has recently taken the management of the Duke Foundation in that city. On April 4th, a deputation from Queens College, Charlotte, will conduct the program.

PROGRAM ANNOUNCED FOR THE SOPHOMORE BANQUET

Several Members of Faculty To Speak--Committee Working

After several weeks of hard work, the program committee in charge of the Sophomore banquet announced their plans to the class at a meeting held a few days ago. Although the exact nature of the program is to be held a secret until the night of the affair, February 20th, it has been rumored clandestinely that there are to be several new and novel features that will prove to be a surprise to the class. The speakers of the evening, as announced by the committee, composed of V. J. Guthry, chairman, W. L. Lingle, University of North Carolina by the small rington in the 129-pound class; Davis or for varsity berths and the team should make who comes on.

RULES OF SPORTSMANSHIP

1. Show courtesy to your opponents—be gentlemen and ladies—and treat opponents as such.
2. Play the game according to the spirit of the rules—play fair.
3. Abide by the decisions of the officials without remarks or heckling.
4. Be courageous losers but do not give up when the score is going against you. Play your best to the end—have grit. Be a modest winner. Do not boast of victories or “rub it in.” Cheer your opponents—applaud good plays of both teams. Take pride in upholding the good “Wild Cat Spirit” of our college. Good sportsmanship between contestants leads to friendship and not enmity.

“When the one Great Scorer comes
To write against your name.
He writes—not that you won or lost,
But how you played the game.”

W. L. Younger,
Director of Athletics.

Wildcat Matmen to Take Long Journey Through Virginia

The wrestling team left today for a trip into Virginia, where they will meet two teams. The University of Virginia team will be met tonight, and the team will go to V. P. I. tomorrow for a match there. This will probably be the only trip that the team will take this year, although another is under slight consideration. Both of these teams are very strong. The University of Virginia has not lost a match this year, while the V. P. I. team lost to the margin of three points. Seven men made the trip with Captain Weems. Four of these, Frierson, Vance, Cox, and Barrington, are lettermen. Cox is captain of the team and Frierson is the manager. The men who made the trip were as follows: Frierson in the 119-pound class; Barrington in the 129-pound class; Hansel in the 139-pound class; Cox in the 149-pound class; Bohannon or Crinkley in the 160-pound class; Vance in the 175-pound class, and Mauldin in the unlimited heavyweight class. This is practically the same team that won over Concord in the first match of the year. The Freshman team will have a match with the Winston-Salem High School aggregation during the latter part of the week. A number of freshmen have made strong bids for varsity berths and the team should make a good showing. A match with Guilford College is also being contemplated for this bunch.

J. S. Foster, H. B. Arbuckle, and Caldwell Withers are to come from both the faculty and the students. Dr. W. L. Porter, class registrar, Prof. K. J. Foreman, A. H. Hilhouse, R. A. Miller, and W. O. Nesbit, class president, are to tell the men of ’28 the whys and wherefores of their circumstances and the things that lie before them in the remainder of their college days. The finance and decorations committees, working in connection with the program committee and Caldwell Withers, toastmaster, have pushed their part of the undertaking to a resting stage and are now waiting for the time for the banquet to come. The scene of this joyful and hilarious occasion is to be at the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce.

Rev. H. B. Dendy, ’19, is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Weaverville, N.C.

HARTCRAFT THEATRE
Mooresville, N. C.
Friday, Feb. 12th
RICHARD DIX in THE LUCKY DEVIL
Monday, Feb. 15th
F. B. O. Special DRUSILLA WITH A MILLION
Thursday, Feb. 18th
Fox Feature THE WINDING STAIR
10 and 20 Cents

Start the New Year off right by letting Mayhew do your cleaning and dyeing. We are prepared to give more efficient service now than ever before.

MAYHEWS
Master Cleaner and Dyer
Representatives:
E. S. Christenbury, 109 West
“Bob” Link, 31 Georgia

“Flowers that Grow for Happy Lovers” ---wrote Tennyson. Which is to remind you of the appropriateness of “Saying It to ‘Her’ With Flowers” on St. Valentine Day. See our beauteous array of suggestions for the occasion. Red Carnations, Red Roses.

ART FLOWER SHOP
DAVIS ROBINSON, Prop.
9336 N. Tryon Street
Phone 6728
Charlotte, N. C.
Night Phone---County 3321-3260
College Rep. J. J. Ernhardt

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS
RECORDS AND ROLLS
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC
OLDEST IN THE STATE
ANDREW MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.