Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 4, 1926 No. 17

Davidson Students to Hear Famous Lecturer of Far Western State

The Y. M. C. A. announces that the Hon. J. Stitt Wilson, of California, will give a series of lectures
at Davidson this week-end. Hon. Mr. Wilson will speak first in chapel Saturday morning. His second appearance will be Saturday
afternoon when he speaks to a select group of students especially interested in sociological problems. The “Y” vespers have been
given over to him for the final message of the series.

Dr. Wilson was first heard at Davidson in 1924 when he delivered a number of talks on various subjects of
current interest. He attracted the largest student audiences ever given a speaker of his type. His stirring messages, striking delivery,
and great earnestness were responsible for his popularity. He has gained nation-wide note as an author, student sociologist, publicist, and
politician. As mayor of Berkeley, Calif., he enjoyed a most successful administration. Dr. Wilson is a versatile lecturer.

Dr. Wilson is probably among the most thorough sociological students in America. Besides his practical training in the outside world,
he spent nine years at the University of Chicago, specializing in sociology. He supplemented his university course by investigating conditions
in every circle of Chicago society, thus gaining an extraordinary insight into these problems.

Students are attracted to Mr. Wilson because of his liberal and modern attitude towards social and religious questions. His topics
for this time, “The Message of Science” and “The Approaching Renaissance,” suggest two instructive and entertaining lectures.

In securing Dr. Wilson, the Davidson College Young Men’s Christian Association is following up the course that it has set
throughout this year in bringing to the Davidson campus the finest speakers available. Working on a limited capital, the committee
for speakers, headed by Joe Garrison, has been at a disadvantage on account of lack of funds. However, the bringing
to the college of such men as Dr. Wilson, Bishop Penick, and Judge , of Winston-Salem, in a space of
four weeks, is ample proof that the committee is intending to give the students a chance to hear men of
real worth. The officers of the “Y” are anxious to get as large a crowd out for the first appearance
of Dr. Wilson Saturday as possible, knowing that every man who attends will bring others back for the succeeding meetings.
He is a master of concrete style and unusual eloquence.

Hunt, ’25, Dies at Home in Lexington

A pall of sorrow enveloped the Davidson campus when the distressing news was heard that John C. Hunt, ‘25, had
died January 22nd at the home of his parents, in Lexington, N. C., after an illness of about a week
from pneumonia. “Popsy,” as he was known by all the students, had been serving the Lexington High School as athletic
coach during the past fall and was coaching the basketball team at the time of his death.

For three years the deceased was a member of the Davidson varsity football team and held a prominent place on
the campus and in the hearts of the students. He was famous in collegiate circles as a drop-kicker. In 1923
he kicked a field goal that won the game from Presbyterian College of South Carolina, 3 to 0, and also
starred and performed nobly in 1924 with Furman and also with Clemson. His athletic activities were continued when he returned
to his hometown last fall to take charge of the football team there. This team made a very creditable record
last season, due in no small part to the efforts of their coach.

(Continued on page 5)

Season’s First Home Wrestling and Boxing to Feature Week-End Program

Although the exact date for the Davidson-Concord wrestling meet is undecided, Manager Joe Frierson announced Monday that it would be
held the latter part of the week, probably Friday or Saturday night. The reason for this doubt is the conflict
of the date originally set for the meet with that of a basketball game.

There will be seven matches: Frierson (Davidson) versus Deaton (Concord), in the 119-pound class; Barrington (Davidson) versus Morgan (Concord) in
the 129-pound class; Davis (Davidson) versus Wallace (Concord) in the 139-pound class; Cox (Davidson) versus Easley (Concord) in the 149-pound
class; Pinkney or Bohannon (Davidson) versus Cole in the 149 class; Vance (Davidson) versus Irvin (Concord) in the 175-pound class,
and Malden (Davidson) versus Bruton (Concord) in the unlimited class. Denny, of Concord, will referee.

Between the matches, several boxing bouts will be staged. In the flyweight class, Embry, a Freshman weighing 113 pounds, will
box Smith, a Sophomore, who weighs 112 pounds. In the bantamweight class, Keerans, a Junior, will box Lake, a Sophomore.
Both weigh 123 pounds. The best match of the evening will probably be that between Flynn, a Freshman, and Grey,
a Sophomore. Grey tips the scales at 149 pounds, while Flynn only weighs 149 pounds. But Flynn will have the
advantage of having had more experience than Grey. Captain Weems will referee. Captain Elkins and Lieutenant Beckett will be the
judges. The time-keeper has not yet been appointed.

Captain Elkins hopes to stage an inter-class boxing tournament sometime in April. An open-air ring will be afforded for the
occasion. Barring Davidson from inter-collegiate boxing has been a heavy blow on athletics here this year. It is hoped that
by next year it will be allowed, and at present the chances look very promising.

Glee Club to Present Varied Selections on Debut Tomorrow Night

Jazz Orchestra to be Special Attraction in Initial Performance Here

Davidson students will be given their only chance to hear their Glee Club tomorrow night at 8:00 o'clock. A program
was announced for a performance before examinations, but conflicting entertainments necessitated the postponement of the Glee Club's program.

Manager L. B. McClain has announced that the entire club will take part in the entertainment, with special emphasis being
laid on the jazz feature. The jazz orchestra, under the direction of B. T. Crayton, has made a big hit
the few times that it has been heard this year. Several times have they played at the gym on Saturday
nights and once they broadcasted from Charlotte over Station WBT, at which time they received much commendation from numerous parties
throughout the South.

The symphony orchestra, headed by T. C. Barr, is given a prominent part in the presentation. Several classical numbers are
to be offered by this unit of the club. The chorus of some 30 men is to render quite a
number of selections that will be appealing to the students in that they will be catchy, airy, and full of
life. The chorus, as a whole, is said to be better than the one of last year which received so
much favorable comment. It is larger and with more experienced men in it than ever before.

The special vocal offerings are to be presented by the quartet, consisting of D. G. Wilson, J. S. Foster, D.
M. Calhoun, and M. M. Lockhart. These men sang together on stunt night last fall, making a good impression on
their hearers, and as they have included a new group of songs in their repertoire, the success of their part
of the program is assured.

One of the minor features of the evening's entertainment is to be given by the mandolin club. Two upperclassmen, Womack
and Proctor Thompson, and two freshmen, Kane and Worzel, constitute the club. The price of admission for the reserved seats
will be 50 cents, and 35 cents will be charged for the remaining seats.

Three Debate Queries Announced for Varsity

Sewanee and V. P. I. Will Be Met on Same Question—World Court Question Also

Plans for the inter-collegiate debates, which are to be held during the months of March and April, are being rapidly
laid. During the past week the queries for three of the debates have been chosen. The question toThe query to
be debated with the University of Pittsburgh was chosen some weeks ago. The query for the debate with the Presbyterian
College of South Carolina will be: Resolved, That the United States should enter the World Court. The Debating Council has
decided that Davidson will uphold the affirmative side of the question. This is a subject of vital interest to the
country at large and one which the United States has voted to accept with reservations. On account of a conflict
in dates, the debate with William and Mary has been canceled and V. P. I. has replaced this school on
the Davidson schedule. The subject to be debated with this school and also with Sewanee University will be: Resolved, That
the military forces of the United States should be consolidated into a department of national defense, with sub-branches of army,
navy, and air forces. The University of Pittsburgh will be debated here. The query for debate will be: Resolved, That
the United States Government— (Continued on page 2)

Recent Change in Junior Speaking Date Brings the Holidays Into Easter Season

THREE SENIORS AVERAGE OVER TRADITIONAL MARK OF .98

The class of 1926 has the distinction of having three men who have averaged over 98 for the first semester
of their Senior year. These men, Robert Hayden, Hollingsworth, and Ben Ratchford, have averaged, respectively, 98.34, and 98.0 percent. The
latter two are members of Phi Beta Kappa. Although at present these are the only men whose grades have been
averaged, it is probable that three other leaders of the Senior class, Graves, 98.75, have approached this high-water mark of
scholarship. The average of Graves, 98.75 percent, is the highest that has been attained at Davidson College for over six
years, and if the records were available, it is probable that this would stand as the highest for many more
years previous. This is also the first time in the history of the college that as many as three men
have averaged 98 at the same time in one semester; thus the class of '26 stands unique in scholastic lines.

Sixty-Eight Report for First Practice

Last Monday morning Coach Tex Tilson announced in chapel that spring football practice would start that afternoon. In answer to
this call, 78 men drew uniforms and 68 appeared at practice. The squad is smaller by 25 men than that
of last year. Tilson announced, however, that he was satisfied with the number of men and that this practice would
be a success if the large majority of them stayed out for the full six weeks. Coach Tilson also said
that anyone failing to participate in this practice would not be allowed to come out next fall during the regular
season and that anyone missing as many as two practices without excuse would be required to turn in his uniform.
He stated that this was the only way by which the spring practice could be made a success.

Spring practice was started at Davidson the year that Coaches Monk and Tex started their sojourn here. This is the
third one to be held. The practice is under the supervision of Coach Tilson, since Coach Younger is now occupied
with the basketball team. Coach Tilson will have charge of the line while Monk Mattox, who is in charge of
Freshman athletics, will train the backfield men in the rudiments of the game. The spring practice has become necessary because
there is little time during the regular season to devote to the finer points of the game. During the last
two weeks of the season, the squad will probably be divided into two teams. These two will play exhibition games
on the last two or three Saturdays of the six weeks’ period. Last year Hickory High School was encountered on
the last day, but such a game has not been planned for this year. Last year the inter-mural games proved
to be much more interesting exhibitions than that one just mentioned.

A number of lettermen reported for the first day’s practice. Pinkney, Bohannon, and Arrowood, last year's ends, were all present
for the first day’s grind. Tom Baker and Wick Black are helping coach the Freshmen. Wick will probably return next
year. Joe McConnell, who recently underwent an operation, will be out in a few days. Leggette, Ritchie, and Vance are
also out. This is the first opportunity that the Freshmen have had to line up with the varsity, and a
number of men are showing up well.

Students Will Have Holidays From April 1 to 6 Inclusive—Coincides With Those of Most Schools Now

The spring recess for this year has been changed from April 8th through the 13th, as listed in the catalogue,
to April 1st through the 6th. Due to the fact that Easter comes on the 4th of April, the Junior
class requested that the faculty make this change. The spring festivities usually center around Easter and at this time the
majority of colleges and universities have their spring holidays. These two facts will tend to make the change most acceptable
to the students, as it will make it easier for visitors from other schools to attend Junior Speaking and lend
the holiday spirit to the occasion.

The Junior Speaking committee has now completed the general arrangements for the program covering the holidays. On Thursday afternoon, the
Wildcats will meet V. M. I. in the first track meet of the season. This will present an opportunity to
see two good teams in action and should cause a large number of the students to remain on the hill.
Friday evening will be set apart for the Junior orations. Heretofore this part of the program has been underemphasized, but
due to the efforts of the Forensic Council and the co-operation of the Junior class, the speeches are to be
one of the main attractions of the holidays. The six Juniors who compose the team are men who have previously
shown themselves skillful speakers on various occasions. Each has his subject selected and the next two months should be sufficient
time for the orations to be rounded into perfect shape.

Saturday afternoon, Lenoir-Rhyne will come to Davidson to play the annual baseball game between the two colleges. Lenoir always offers
stiff opposition to the Wildcats and the game should furnish excitement to all fans. The entertainment Saturday evening by the
Junior class will be in the gymnasium as usual, but this will be the only usual feature. (Continued on page
2)

Select Senior Orators Next Tuesday Evening

Twelve or More Seniors to Participate in Oratorical Contest Next Week

The preliminaries for the Senior Oratorical Contest will be held on Tuesday, February 9th. A dozen or more Seniors will
take part in the contest. This feature marks an event in which the very best speakers of the Senior class
participate and not only is it an honor to be the winner of this contest but also to be an
entry.

This contest, besides showing an excellency in public speaking and delivery, will also show that those participating can do more
than speak as these orations must be original. Each man chooses his own subject and composes his own speech. All
Seniors are eligible for this preliminary. Four speakers will be chosen from these to compete in the finals at commencement.
The Senior Oratoricals this year promise to be the best in years, for it is the speakers who make the
contest just what it is, and this year’s Senior class has a number of unusually good speakers. It has six
of its members who are inter-collegiate debaters, a record which no other Senior class at Davidson has equaled. This fact
is bound to make the contest good and a close one. The list of the speakers and their subjects is
not yet complete. Those who intend to enter have been working on their orations all the while and will have
well-prepared speeches when the time comes.
