_ THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 25, 1926

Town News

Mrs. White of Graham is visiting her brother, Mr. E. J. Erwin. Miss Nancy Grey, daughter of Dr. W. R.
Grey, spent the weekend at home. Miss Grey is a teacher in the Shelby schools. Miss Mary Dodson of Greensboro
is spending some time with her relative, Mrs. Whittaker. Mr. Richard G. Souther of Boston spent a day last week
with Professor and Mrs. Lingle, his relatives. Mrs. C. K. Brown gave a delightful party in honor of her brother
and nephew who are spending some time with her. The Sorosis Club was entertained by Mrs. Jetton. Mrs. McIlwaine gave
a most interesting talk on social life in Japan. The Kill Kare Club was delightfully entertained Thursday evening by Miss
Martha Hamilton. At the meeting of the Quadrangler’s Club last Friday evening, Dr. J. L. Douglas gave an interesting talk
on the origin of numbers and figures and on the application of mathematics to problems of everyday life. Dr. and
Mrs. C. M. Richards have moved to their new home on Concord Ave. Mr. and Mrs. H. P.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
RICHARDSON BROTHERS

(Continued from page 5)

points higher in their scholastic standing than the average of the student body. I have brought out how desperately Davidson
has needed modern playing grounds and the crying need of some seating capacity. Without them, we realize the college must
go on playing all important games on foreign fields in order to get enough revenue to support the Athletic Association’s
program. This would mean a continued loss of the large advertising value of thousands of visitors, ably impressed with the
college. At the same time, we realize, from contact with the administration, that with its growing student body the college
had other equally pressing needs that a stronger appeal to the church. Probably because we are both comparatively young—even judged
by undergraduate standards—we decided it was up to us to give old Davidson a modern playing field and the beginning
of a stadium. I expect to live to see the day when this initial section of the stadium will merely
be a small part of a large permanent bowl. If Davidson has erred in her decision to break off athletic
relationships with P. C. in all branches of sport, and would not desire to sever even the gridiron relationship if
a continuance of it seemed expedient for either party. A willingness on the part of Davidson to renew the broken
relationship as soon as it seems wise was expressed in a letter from our athletic chairman, W. W. Wood, to
the P. C. authorities. The Blue Stocking editor, in spite of his attack on Davidson, is nevertheless seemingly pleased with
the breach thus created, and going Davidson one better, declares that “we sincerely hope that the breach thus made by
Davidson athletic officials will remain open for an indefinite period. We do not care to meet teams with such a
spirit.” Ignoring his derogatory reference to our team, which we regret, we cannot refrain from advising him that he can
rest assured that the breach will remain open as long as P. C. students are so adverse to meeting Davidson
teams. Davidson will never insist upon a renewal of gridiron activities between the two colleges!

THE DAVIDSONIAN WILL SPONSOR PROGRAM

(Continued from page 1)

The number of the players this year will be about fifteen. Tickets for the performance on Tuesday night will be
placed on sale during the weekend. All the seats will be reserved till Tuesday night, when the tickets which have
not been disposed of will be sold as rush seats. The reserved seats will be sold at 50 cents each,
and the rush seats will sell at 35 cents each. Come on, boys.

A Scotch farmer fell in the well. The water was over his head, but he could swim. His wife hurriedly
yelled for the farm hands to come and pull him out. “HOLD ON!” cried the Scotchman, “It's 11:00 o'clock. I'll
swim around down here till dinner time.”

France is considering the payment of a dowry to marriageable girls at the age of 21.

Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see VERNON S. BROYLES class of 1875. QUICK SERVICE BEST
PRICES Agent for the Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

By his sons H. Smith Richardson, ’06 Lunsford Richardson, Jr., ’14 In whose college days the value of athletic training
was just beginning to be appreciated. In the hope that future generations may profit in increasing measure from the benefits
of trained minds in strong bodies.

Sanitary drinking glasses made of ice are formed in a freezing apparatus devised by a Dutch engineer.King and daughter, of
Bristol, Tenn., were in Charlotte Saturday for the Davidson-Hampden-Sidney football game, and spent Sunday here with Dr. and Mrs. J.
M. McConnell.

CHARLOTTE GREENSBORO S&W Cafeteria ASHEVILLE RALEIGH.

WHEN IN STATESVILLE CALL ON US FOR YOUR BARBER SHOP WANTS
Commercial Barber Shop - Statesville, N.C.

While in college by hard study, on a careless It was particularly fitting that we decided to dedicate this field
to the memory of our father—the late Lunsford Richardson, of the Thursday night. J. A. Price gave Current Events, discussing
briefly a few things of worldwide interest and importance. All members were warned that in the future all fines for
absences were to be strictly enforced. Eumanean Moye and Copeland won the regular debate in the Eumanean Society on last
Thursday night, for the affirmative over Sparrow and Flynn of the negative. The vote of the house, however, on the
merits of the question, The modification of the Volstead act, was for the negative. Current events were given by Bragaw.
The attention of all members is called to the change in time of meeting, to be effective at the next
meeting. Hereafter the meeting will begin at seven-fifteen instead of seven-thirty as formerly.

WHERE OLD FRIENDS MUST PART
(Continued from page 4)

Calibre of Citadel’s eleven, which has lost only one game in South Carolina this year, and up to her defeat
at the hands of Furman last Saturday, was leading all South Carolina teams with a percentage of 1,000. (We note
from the Blue Stocking itself that up until last Saturday P.C.—the team we fear—was trailing along in third place among
the South Carolina elevens with a percentage of only .750). P.C. essays the role of the small lad, weak in
stature, who has insisted on a scrap with a larger and more powerful fellow, and when he has suffered defeat
at the hands of his larger opponent, goes off whining that he might have won if the fellow had only
been his size, and that the victory for the bigger boy was no credit since he won because of size
alone. Hitherto, we have admired the grim determination of the little fellow (P.C.) in his continued attempts to whip the
larger and more powerful opponent (Davidson). With the latest outburst from P.C., however, our admiration has turned to distaste. For
now the little fellow, who has grown a bit too rowdy in his squabbles, is refused battle by his disgusted
opponent, and instead of accepting the refusal to fight further in a spirit of fairness, the little boy goes gossiping
about that at last the big fellow is afraid to fight him. Some people don’t seem to know when they
are licked!

If Davidson were severing relationships with P.C. simply because of the close score by which the Wildcats won this year,
then it would seem that Davidson has delayed too long her protective tactics. Why did not our authorities break with
P.C. back in 1923, when Davidson won from the Blue Stockings by the same score, and after a much harder
game? Mr. Blue Stocking Editor, you have allowed absurd bias to distort your reasoning. No college has been known to
sign a perpetual athletic contract. The decided probability of unseen circumstances entering in to make any athletic contest undesirable accounts
for the unwillingness of colleges to tie themselves up perpetually. What could be more unsatisfactory, and more destructive to friendliness
than for the athletic association of a college to agree to an irrevocable contract calling for games with another college,
regardless of what circumstances the future might hold? Davidson has always reserved the right to shift her schedules in such
a manner as would result in the best interest to her athletic teams and to the college in general. The
Presby- tors and students! Society on last Thursday night, for the affirmative while Beavers and H. W. White upheld the
negative. The vote of the house on the merits of the question as presented was also for the negative.

In Dad’s day, athletics were unknown in college life and I have heard him say, more than once, that he
ruined his health while in college by hard study. He pushed his way through Davidson in three years, to graduation—one
of the honor men in a hundred similar cases, was not both wise and justified? Someone had to exercise the
initiative in bringing the relationship between P.C. and Davidson to a close until its renewal was warranted by a revival
of friendliness in both colleges. Davidson, unfortunately, was forced through the inertia of P.C. authorities to take the step, and
as a result of this, we must suffer the unrelenting censure of P.C. editors. It is absurd for them, however,
to say that they knew nothing of the animosity—for claiming ignorance in a situation like this is beyond the pale
of rationalism. We regret that such a step was made necessary; we shall, unlike our P.C. contemporaries, welcome the day
when the two schools can again meet in friendly combat—but until that time, we have no apologies to make for
the action of our athletic officials.

VICTORY THEATRE MOORESVILLE N.C.
Friday, Nov. 26—Syncopating Sue, with Corinne Griffith.
Sat., Nov. 27—Unknown Cavalier, with Ken Maynard.
Mon., Nov. 29—Return of Peter Grim, a Fox production.
Tues., Nov. 30—The Boy Friend, a Metro-Goldwyn picture.
Wed. and Thurs., Dec. 1 and 2—Ace of Cads, with Adolphe Menjou.

EVERY minute $1104 worth of property is consumed by fire and every day 42 persons burned to death with 46
injured. Be careful and help stop this awful waste.

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr.
Insurance Department
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

MOORESVILLE, Mooresville Ice Cream Co.
Call at Students’ Store for Deluxe Ice Cream and Eskimo Pies

DAVIDSON THEATRE
“WHERE YOU SEE THE BIG ONES”
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, 29th and 30th
Elinor Glyn’s Love’s Blindness
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, 1st and 2nd
Midnight Lovers
FRIDAY, Dec. 3rd
The Great Gatsby, with Lois Wilson
SATURDAY, Dec. 4th
Ken Maynard in Unknown Cavalier, a First National Western
COMING, MONDAY and TUESDAY, Dec. 6th and 7th
Douglas Fairbanks in the Black Pirate
