THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1926

An aviator in San Francisco was fined $50 for flying while intoxicated.

According to the law in Argentina three-fourths of a wife’s earnings can be taken to pay her husband's debts.

Fellows: You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station Davidson, N. C.

SORE MUSCLES
Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.
VICKS
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

More for your money and the best Peppermint Chewing Sweet for any money

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

A critic says that modern girls are like dolls. He may be right to a certain extent but we maintain that they don't yell “ma-ma” and “pa-pa” when squeezed.

"There's a man outside with a wooden leg named Smith.”
“What's the name of his other leg?”

“I was out with a college boy last night.”
“Sure, I know: one of those boys with Prince of Wales clothes, a Teddy Roosevelt smile, and a Cal Coolidge pocket-hook.”

“How much are the tickets?” groaned Linn McClain.
“Three fifty, orchestra; two fifty balcony.”
“Well, I can’t play an instrument, and, er, what’s going on up in the balcony?”

“I understand,” said the stranger, “that this town is troubled with thieves.”
“No, they don't trouble us none; they come in, take what they want, and beat it without saying a word.”

WE HOPE THIS IS THE LAST ONE
Wifie—“I’m sick of being married.”
Hubby—“So’s your old man.”

Prof.—“My father says we are all descended from monkeys.”
Stude—“Your private family matters are not of interest to the class.”

Mary had a little curl;
It hung beside her ear.
But when she went to bed
It hung—Upon the chiffonier.

She—“Have you enough money to tip the waiter?”
He—“Sure; I have enough to upset him.”

Right after the baseball game in Gastonia last Saturday Harry Vance walked into a barber shop and asked for a haircut; as soon as he made known his wants he seated himself on the footrest of one of the empty chairs.
“Why don't you sit up here in the seat?” asked the barber.
“Well, if I sit up there where the heck will you sit?” he asked.

He—“Would you rather take a walk or be kissed?”
Her—“Well, you know I have a sprained ankle.”

Tommy Baker will now render that side-splitting ballad, entitled: “She doesn't exactly choose my clothes: she merely picks the pockets.”

He—“Where is my fraternity pin?”
She—“On my chiffonier.”
He—“Well, please take it off before you send it to the laundry.”

Dean—“Sheriff, arrest that student. He's drunk.”
Sheriff—“No, he’s not drunk; I saw his hand move.”

Her—“I wonder where all the men who can dance are?”
Her beau—“In dancing with all the girls who can dance, I suppose.”

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

John McRae told some innocent freshmen that the bridge on his violin was there in order to get the music across.

“I should like to revisit the scenes of my youth.”
“They are all padlocked by this time.”

Bob Wilkinson came in at seven o'clock the other morning, but said it wasn't his fault, as the girl didn’t have a clock in the sitting room.

“I will only marry a man who has lived and suffered.”
“Then you are going to marry a widower, I suppose?”

Many a man loses his balance when his wife goes shopping.

“Hold ’er, Newt! I’ll give you a cigarette.”

Social News—“It being Saturday night, they gave the bride a shower.”

When a woman says “wait a minute” her words carry weight.

DISCRIMINATION
(The following ad appeared recently in the Kingston, N. Y. paper) — Wanted: Roomers. Students or gentlemen preferred. Phone 1512-R.

“Say, Clancey, whazza difference between a toothpick and a pitchfork?”
“I dunno, what is it?”
“Well, I’d hate to have you pick my teeth.”

Soph (running into Fresh)—“I never step aside for fools.”
Fresh—“I always do.”

“I’d have been here sooner but my car broke down.”
“Tire trouble?”
“No, I think it was the trolley.”

The lowest guy I ever knew
Borrowed my teeth and asked for a chew.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA
(Continued from page 1)
The alumni are men who have gained success and recognition in their respective vocations. They represent the realms of business, education, manufacturing, insurance, ministry, banking, journalism, medicine and other professions.

Omicron Delta Kappa was founded at Washington and Lee University in 1914. It has a twofold purpose: first, it proposes to recognize those men, both graduates and undergraduates, who have achieved distinction and prominence in college life and in the world outside, and, secondly, its purpose is to render service in various ways.to the institutions in which it is located. Character is a primary prerequisite for membership in the Omicron Delta Kappa Society. Only those students are eligible who have gained distinguished recognition in athletics, scholarship, publications, social activities, or student body activities. No position automatically rates an Omicron Delta election. Since its inception, membership in this fraternity has been one of the most coveted honors attainable in those schools where chapters are located. Many student bodies rank it first among college honors. The Davidson chapter was installed in 1917 when the society absorbed the old Gryphon and University of Alabama Club, thereby establishing the Delta Circle. Among the other strong chapters of Omicron Delta Kappa are those at Johns Hopkins, University of Pittsburgh, Washington and Lee, University of Virginia, Emory, Lehigh.

J. P. Williams Will Hold New Office of Freshmen Dean for the Next Year

Two Regular Deans and One Freshman Dean Have Been Appointed by Faculty

In a new plan, which will be inaugurated at the beginning of the term 1926-27, Mr. John P. Williams, of the class of '16, will take the position of Dean of Freshmen. In an effort to modernize the governmental facilities of the college, it has been decided to have two deans and one dean of freshmen. The second dean has not yet been appointed, but the freshman deanship has been given to Mr. Williams. Mr. Williams, it will be remembered by the members of the upper classes, was the Y.M.C.A. secretary for the two years preceding the present term, and it was during this time that he won the friendship of every man that walked the campus. Mr. Williams is engaged in a business course at New York University, and writes that he keeps in touch with the college through the pages of The Davidsonian, which he reads weekly. A portion of a letter received by the editor of The Davidsonian reads: "I have been reading The Davidsonian mighty closely this year and I want to congratulate you and the staff on the paper you have gotten out. It has been a real credit to the institution. The editorials have been one of the strongest features, for they are both thoughtful and timely. Taking all in all, you have set a high standard for the future issues and are to be complimented." Many smiling faces will greet Mr. Williams back to the campus next year and he will surely be glad to see many of his old friends in the upper classes. It is with much pride that the college officials announce the coming of Mr. Williams.

NEW EDITORS TAKE CHARGE
(Continued from page 1)

Delta Withers is an assistant manager in baseball. He is a member of the Sigma Pi Epsilon fraternity. P. Bell, G. McMillan, and J. B. Webb have been chosen associate editors. These men have been picked for their energy and ability. They are members of the Reporters’ Club. McMillan and Bell are members of the Delta Pi Kappa honorary fraternity. H. I. Shelby has been chosen alumni editor, and D. M. Calhoun, exchange editor. V. S. Broyles has been elected to head the business staff. Last year he served as assistant business manager and has now been chosen business manager. E. I. Douglass, J. Lake, and M. Crawford have been picked as assistant business managers.

Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Candies, Kodaks
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

NOTICE TO FRESHMEN
Members of the Freshman class who are interested in work on the editorial staff of the Quips and Cranks should see Don Wharton, editor-in-chief, immediately. Those signing up for this work will be given jobs throughout the spring and the first months after school opens in the fall. The best of these will be selected for further work on the annual, about the middle of October. It will be the policy of the editor to get a number of men in each of the lower classes familiar with the work of putting out a college annual. In doing this, both the 1927 and future Quips and Cranks will be greatly benefited. J. A. McAlpine has been chosen subscription manager. W. L. Albright and R. S. Abernathy have been selected as circulation manager and service manager respectively.

VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE - - - N.C.
WEEKLY PROGRAMME

Wed. and Thurs., 21-22. Bread, a Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer picture, also comedy, In the Cold Rush.
Fri. 23. Tell Me Why. Dealing with birth control. Matinee, women only. Night, men only. Admission, 30c.
Sat., 24. Away in the Lead with Francis X. Bushman, Jr.
Mon. and Tues. Quo Vadis. 20,000 in the cast. The "marvel of the screen."
Wed., 28. Marry Me.

BASEBALL AND TRACK SEASON IS HERE
We have a full line of athletic supplies. Come down and get yours now.
STUDENT’S STORE
“It’s Yours---Why Not Patronize It.”