THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1926

Spring Golf Tournament to Begin This Week With Thirty-Five Participating

The spring golf tournament will begin this week to determine the members of the team for this year. A number
of men have entered the tournament and in this way the most representative and best team will be selected. The
qualifying rounds were played during the last week. Due to the fact that the course is not in its best
condition right at present no very low scores were turned in. In all, 35 men have qualified for the three
flights of the tournament. The matches will be 18 holes each until the final rounds in each of the flights,
when the matches will be extended to 36 holes. The winners of each flight will be given some prize which
will be decided later. Each man entering the tournament will pay a small sum which will go towards buying the
prizes for the winners. The members of the golf team will be picked from the men composing the first flight.
As each match is to be played, the five men playing the best at that time will be selected to
represent the school. But the men in the other flights will also be called upon if they are playing as
good or better golf than those in the first flight. Following is how the men have been paired for the
first rounds:

First flight: McGill drew a bye, Martin plays Earnhardt, Jones plays Malloy, and Tate plays Vaughn.

Second flight: Miller plays Baker, Lovelace plays Solter, Shaddock plays Menzies, Lawson plays Hall.

Third flight: Lyons plays McCrary, Burke plays Clarke, Alexander plays Pressly, Simpson plays Carroll, McAllister plays Crawford, Wilkinson plays Erwin,
Causey plays Daniels, Wilson plays McCabe, Murchison plays Storey, Strong plays Crawford.

All of these matches will be played off before the last part of this week and the other rounds will
be played as soon as possible.

Davidson Students Attend I.R.C. Meet

W. A. Christian and A. H. Hollingsworth were the Davidson delegates to the Southern Students Association of International Relations Clubs,
at Brenau College, February 25-28. Parker, the other delegate, was unable to go. Thirty other leading Southern universities and colleges
were represented. Prof. Wm. E. Dodd, of Chicago University; Lasker H. Bliss, of the U. S. Army Staff, and C.
B. Gosnell, of Princeton, were among the speakers of the convention. A heated debate on the World Court between University
of Alabama and Furman was won by the former. Brenau, Riverside, and the Gainesville Chamber of Commerce royally entertained the
visitors. Several delightful social events were on the program. The next conference will be entertained by Agnes Scott and Emory.
It will meet in Covington, R., February, 1927.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Blacks Defeat Reds in Second Game of Spring Practice Last Saturday

Grey and Davis Score Touchdowns and Allen Drop-kicks Field Goal

The second football game of the spring season last Saturday afternoon resulted in a 16-0 victory for the Blacks. At
no time during the game did the Reds seriously threaten to score. Straight football was played by practically both teams,
a few passes were tried but in the main unsuccessful. Early in the first quarter a pass for 10 yards,
Wick Black to Kell, seemed to be a start for a touchdown drive for the Blacks. However, the next pass
that was attempted, Black to Bohannon, for some 30 yards, rolled out of the receiver's hands just as he was
heading for the goal line 10 yards distant. The ball soon went over on downs and in a short time
Allen dropped back from the line and booted a perfect field goal for the Blacks, the first score of the
game and the only one in the first half.

Three freshmen started off for the Reds, while the Blacks used six. was center for the Blacks and Laws for
the Reds. Holmgreen was the best man the fresh had in the line, while Kell held up the honor of
his class in the backfield. James, for the Blacks, and Overton and Leggette, for the Reds, did the punting of
the first half and most of the second half.

Second Half

Lincoln, of the Blacks, kicked off to Jennings, of the Reds, who fumbled the ball, Davis recovering for the Blacks.
The ball seesawed back and forth in midfield for several minutes, the Blacks retaining it for the greater time as
the Reds only had the ball in their possession twice in the last half. In the closing minutes of the
third quarter Walter Davis, for the Blacks, went six yards through the line for the first score of the game.
Grey kicked the extra point. The quarter soon ended with the Blacks in possession of the ball.

In the last quarter both teams tried to score, the Blacks succeeding as Dick Grey went 25 yards around left
end for a touchdown. He failed in his try for extra point. The score stood at 16-0 in favor of
the Blacks at the close of the game.

Blacks (16) Position Reds (0)
Pinckney LE Dees
Arrowood LT Holmgreen
McConnell LG King
Riverside C Jennings
Montes RG Covington
Wearn RT Overton
Leggette (c) RE
Black, W. (c) FB

Subs: Blacks—Grey for James, Harmon for Holmgreen, Carter for Lincoln, Dubose for Carter, E. Smith for Mitchell. Reds—Campbell for King,
S. Black for Nisbett, S. Smith for Holmgreen, Watkins for Covington, Campbell for King.

(Continued from page 1)

the architect, and they puzzle him by their queer actions. The main elements of comedy and the first field of
action are focused around the mistaken identity of Mr. Brown. To further add to his bewilderment, Marion mistakes him for
Phillip, who in turn is mistaken for Katherine; and Katherine believes him to be Mr. Saunders, a college friend of
Phillip’s.

Another thread of the story is found in the concert, the boys were entertained by the Agnes Scott College Glee
club underthe direction of Mrs. Martha Johnston and Miss Betty Helen Bates. Sunday was spent in Atlanta in the homes
of some of the Presbyterian families there. The members of the club aided in the musical programs in several churches
and sang in the several choirs. On Monday, the organization went to Greenville, S.C., where they gave a concert at
the Greenville High School under the auspices of the Manhood Club, a boys’ organization. From there, the club came to
Charlotte on Tuesday, where they appeared at the Charlotte High School on Tuesday night. On Wednesday morning, they returned to
the Hill.

QUEENS DRAMATIC CLUB (Continued from page 1)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE GLEE CLUB

BULLDOGS TAKE SCRAPPY CONTEST (Continued from page 1)

Wilson (5)--------- Reeder (2)
Anderson (11)-----RG----- Weinberg (8)
Simpson (4)------- LG------- Figg

Substitutions: For Davidson, Harrison for Huie, Huie for Harrison. For Citadel, Ross, Sanders for Reeder, Reeder for Sanders.

Foul goals: Davidson, 5 out of 8; Citadel, 1 out of 8. Field goals: Davidson, 16; Citadel, 19. Referee: Hengeveld
(Davidson).

Taylor Brothers, of Winston-Salem, offered tobacco to the student who composed the best organized Davidson yell. Karl Lehman, Christian Endeavor
organizer, spoke to the students at the Y.M.C.A. vesper services. He also spoke to the recently organized C.E. Society among
the students.

Golf has taken a strong hold on the athletically inclined, and it is hoped that many new members will be
enrolled. The course, though not perfect, is good enough to learn on.

Chief of Police Johnston has determined to see that the law regulating the speed limit of automobiles through Davidson is
enforced. A few Sundays ago, he took the numbers of about 40 cars that were exceeding the speed limit. The
citizens of Davidson stand behind Mr. Johnston in his efforts, and it is hoped that the nuisance will soon be
abated.

Davidson students are to have a share in the relief work among the prison camps. The “Y” Cabinet pledged a
sum for the student body, the amount to be raised among the students.

Davidson lost to University of Virginia, 14-0; defeated State, 16-0; Roanoke, 20-0; Furman, 46-14; Wofford, 32-0; Clemson, 33-0. Carolina defeated
Davidson, 10-6; Ga. Tech defeated Davidson, 9-0.

LIBRARY NEWS

Miss Shaw has recently changed the system of keeping the reading room of the library. Heretofore, the magazines have been
bound in covers and placed on the tables. They were often covered up by the boys reading newspapers and hence
were inconvenient to the students. Now, the magazines are placed in a cabinet and are more easily obtainable than heretofore.
The titles can easily be seen by anyone choosing magazines. Furthermore, this adds much to the general appearance of the
reading room. The cabinet is by one of the doors and in a convenient position. Miss Shaw announces that for
the present, the covers will be left off the magazines. However, if the magazines are damaged in any way, it
will necessitate the covers being replaced. If possible, the magazines will be placed in alphabetical order on the shelves after
reading so that the table may be left entirely for reading.

ARTCRAFT THEATRE - MOORESVILLE, N.C. “HOME OF GOOD PICTURES”

Thursday, March 11---“Thank You,” a Fox feature. One of John Golden’s hits. Four years as a road show and one
year in New York City at a movie theatre.

Friday, March 12---“Wild Horse Mesa,” starring Jack Holt, a Paramount feature. Admission: 10 and 25 cents.

One of the power amplifier stages of the world's first super-power transmitter

The World’s Loudest Voice

From the studio of WGY in Schenectady, six miles from the developmental station, there may be controlled a great number
of transmitters, one of which is the first super-power transmitter in the world. WGY, together with its associates, KOA of
Denver and KGO of Oakland, is the General Electric Company’s assurance to the American public that radio broadcasting shall be
maintained upon the highest standards.

A new series of G-E advertisements showing what electricity is doing in many fields will be sent on request. Ask
for booklet GEK-1.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK

On the rolling plains of South Schenectady, in several scattered buildings, is a vast laboratory for studying radio broadcasting problems.
Gathered here are many kinds and sizes of transmitters, from the short-wave and low-power sets to the giant super-power unit
with a 50- to 250-kilowatt voice. Super-power and simultaneous broadcasting on several wavelengths from the same station are among the
startling later-day developments in radio. And even with hundreds of broadcasting stations daily on the air throughout the land, these
latest developments stand for still better service to millions of listeners.

Only five years old, yet radio broadcasting has developed from a laboratory experiment into a mighty industry. And alert, keen
young men have reaped the rewards. But history repeats itself. Other electrical developments will continue to appear. And it will
be the college man, with broad vision and trained mind, who will be ready to serve and succeed.
