THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1926

DAVIDSON WILL MEET WAKE FOREST

Wake Forest wants revenge for last year’s tie, and a clear road to the state title, and the Wildcats must defeat the Deacons to be a strong contender for the championship.

The probable line-up is as follows:

Wake Forest Position Davidson
Cooper LE Arrowood
Phelps LT Bohannon
Weir LG Boggs
Woodward C McConnell
Persons RG Mitchell
Emmerson RT Ritchie
Riley RE Pinkney
Rackley QB Sappenfield
Leggette LH Grey
Wells RH Brown
Sykes FB Grey

ALUMNI NEWS

Professional Notices

DR. VANCE HASTY
STATEVILLE

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
CHARLOTTE

A wedding of great interest to society circles in North Carolina, Georgia, and Virginia as well as Davidson alumni, was that of George W. Mauze to Miss Mary Elsie Brown, on Saturday evening, the 15th of October, at 8:30 o'clock, in the First Baptist Church of Charlotte. The bridegroom's father, Dr. J. Layton Mauze, conducted the ceremony. The bridegroom is a graduate of Davidson in the class of ’23. While he was in college he was best known on the basketball team.

Rowan Alumni to Form Association

The Davidson alumni of Rowan county will organize an association in that county. The organization will take place next Tuesday night, at an alumni supper in Salisbury. There are approximately seventy-five alumni in this county, among whom are some very prominent men.

The matter of organizing an association has been discussed for a good while, which discussion has resulted in the supper which is to be given in Salisbury. This will be a large association and will be, according to all indications, one of the most prominent of Davidson alumni organizations. The Davidson alumni in Rowan county have always been loyal and the step they are taking in perfecting an organization will mean a lot to Davidson College and other alumni associations.

The Loyalty League, recently organized by the Alumni Association, needs the active support of every Davidson alumnus. This new organization has only two hundred and twenty-five members out of three thousand five hundred alumni. The college as an institution needs the moral and financial assistance of every alumnus if it is to make any progress in the new program of expansion. The initiation fee of the new league is only a dollar, which can be easily afforded by all.

The present enrollment is 640 students, while more than three hundred were turned away this year on account of lack of classroom and dormitory facilities. There is pressing need for the completion of the New Chambers building, and for the building of a new and fireproof dormitory, in order to care properly for students here now and those who will come in the next few years. A new Y. M. C. A. building with a swimming pool and all other modern equipment is sorely needed.

Considering all that Davidson has done for her alumni, it certainly is not asking too much for them to keep faith with her. Now, more than ever before, loyal supporters are needed in carrying on the work.

Other Davidson alumni are planning to organize associations in their various vicinities. One of the most promising situations is in Charleston, S. C. The alumni secretary has received numerous letters lately from Charleston and the immediate vicinity in which much interest is shown.

Every minute $1104 worth of property is consumed by fire and every day 42 persons are burned to death with 46 injured. Be careful and help stop this awful waste.

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr.
Insurance Department
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Vernon S. Broyles
Agent for
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.C. es . . Drop In Soon and Hear Them

General interest seems to be aroused and great work of the college, and all alumni are urged to do their part. An association promises soon to have an inception there.

Why Do Ya Roll Those Eyes!
Medley Fox Trot with Vocal Chorus
Me Too - Fox Trot with Vocal Chorus
That’s My Geek
Paul Weems and His Orchestra
In Statesville We Are Located
TO SERVE YOU
Harry Ruff, vice-president of the alumni association at Rock Hill, has just written a letter to the alumni association in which he has given an order for twenty-five tickets to the Davidson-Carolina classic event of November 13. Mr. McGill, the college treasurer, has charge of the tickets and anyone can obtain them by writing to him.

There’s a New Star in Heaven Tonight (Rudolph Valentino) with Violin and Guitar
An Old-Fashioned Picture with Violin and Guitar
Vernon Dalhart
Six Feet of Papa with Violin, ’Cello and Piano
Looking at the World Thru Rose Colored Glasses with Violin, 'Cello and Piano
Aileen Stanley

FRESH TOURNAMENT
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Music Dept. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
A complete line of Stationery, Toilet Articles, and Kodak Supplies

We are ready to serve you Drugs, Cigarettes, Cigars

The Best Picture of the Season!
What a Picture! Richard Dix is Every Bit as Good as Nick Sappenfield---That’s Plenty Good!

The Kelly Clothing Company
Correct Dressers for Men
Mooresville, Statesville, Shelby

Dunhill & Kaywoodie Pipes
The clothes and accessories you want are there

Warner Bros
Broadway Theatre
WHERE QUALITY MEETS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Greatest of All Football Idols
ONE MINUTE TO PLAY
The Greatest of All Football Stories
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, Oct. 28, 29, 30

Thirty-two boys entered. At the early date, it was impossible to do much toward seeding the players because very little was known of their value. Therefore, some men who were defeated before the semi-finals actually have as much chance of making the team as those who went through to the semi-finals. The results of this tournament by no means definitely decide the team.

In the playing of the third round, Johnston, Apple, Halverstadt, and Henderson won their way to the semi-finals. Johnston defeated Apple, and Halverstadt defeated Henderson to reach the finals. Then in a fast match, Halverstadt in three straight sets won the championship from Johnston. Both of these men, among others, show promise of becoming valuable players for the Freshmen. Among those who did not reach the semi-finals but who will likely make strong bids for berths on the team are Kopp, Gardner, Elliott, and Pettus. As things look now, the prospects for big tennis teams for Davidson in the next few years are very bright. The main handicap which faces the teams is the lack of suitable courts for practice and for match play. A friend of this school could find no better way to help it than by giving money for the construction of new courts or for making the old ones fit to use. Although the Fresh team will have no regular schedule for this fall, they hope to get a match or two in order that they may get started. Charlotte High School will likely be approached concerning a match.

The bride is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Hampton Samuel Brown, and is more than beautiful and attractive. Mr. and Mrs. Mauze will be at home in Green Bank, W. Va., where Mr. Mauze holds a pastorate. Only one day before the marriage of Mr. Mauze, Laura Bibel Tillett. This marriage is of special interest to Davidson alumni as Bethea was a member and a graduate of the class of '22. He was one of the best football players ever to don the uniform for two or three years.