HOME-COMING NUMBER — FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 13, 1926 No. 9

CAROLINA GAME TO FEATURE ALUMNI HOME-COMING

Public Initiation of Phi Beta Kappa Takes Place on Night of December 3
Speaker Has Not Been Chosen As Yet

EIGHT ALUMNI ACCEPT
Four Students Will Also Be Taken — All Alumni Were Leading Students in Past

The Gamma Chapter of North Carolina of Phi Beta Kappa will hold its annual initiation, secret and public, on the
night of December 3. At this time 12 men will be initiated, eight alumni and four students. The eight alumni
elected are outstanding men in their various occupations and range over a number of classes.

Dr. Thornton Whaling, Professor of Theology at Louisville Seminary, of the class of 1877, is the oldest alumnus to be
honored at this time. Dr. Whaling is one of the most deep-thinking and scholarly men in the Southern Presbyterian Church.
Dr. W. E. Hill, 1900, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church in Richmond, Va., will also be honored. At the
present time Dr. Hill has two sons in college, both members of the Sophomore class.

Along the lines of medicine, two men have been chosen. These are Dr. W. M. Dunn, eminent surgeon of Atlanta,
Ga., and Dr. W. S. Rankin, of Charlotte. Dr. Rankin was for some time in charge of the State Department
of Health at Raleigh, but is now a trustee of the Duke Endowment, with control of the funds allotted to
hospitals and orphanages. He attended the Medical School here, taking some scientific courses in the college proper.

The class of 1912 has three representatives elected. They are A. W. White, of Charlotte, a lawyer, graduate of the
Harvard Law School; Dr. George Howard, of Salisbury, Superintendent of the County Schools, Rowan County, N. C., and Lloyd H.
Smith, of Easley, S. C., banker and lawyer. Dr. Howard received his degree from Columbia, and Mr. Smith is a
graduate of the Law School of the University of South Carolina.

(Continued on page 5)

Sixty-Four Men Pledged by Eleven Fraternities
Average Number of New Men Pledged by Each Chapter

The eleven fraternities on the “Hill” bid, last Friday, a total of 64 Freshmen into their ranks. The largest number
pledged was by the Pi Kappa fraternity, who received nine new men. The average pledge of the 11 fraternities amounted
to six men. The following is a list of the Freshmen pledged by each fraternity.

Beta Theta Pi—Henry Simpson, Greenville, S. C.; James Gavin, Mobile, Ala.; A. N. Haverstadt, Atlanta, Ga.; Doc. Henderson, Gastonia, N.
C.; Alex Edelman, Goldsboro, N. C.; Frontis Johnson, Greensboro, Ga.

Kappa Alpha—Robert Erckman, Hendersonville, N. C.; Bill Wolfe, Louisville, Ky.; R. S. Reynolds, Jr., Louisville, Ky.; Herman King, Bristol, Tenn.;
Albert Kelly, Thomasville, Ga.; William McGavock, Franklin, Tenn.

Kappa Sigma—B. Y. Wallace, Tifton, Ga.; (Continued on page 6)

LEADS ’CATS AGAINST TARHEELS

Flashy Wildcat Half-Back Adds Giese Chapter to Brilliant Football Career

Stunt Night Final Event of Program

On November 13, at a quarter past eight, in Shearer Hall, the Davidson College Glee Club will make their first
appearance of the year. On this night, selected as Stunt Night, an interesting and varied program will be presented, consisting
of numbers by the Glee Club, Jazz Orchestra, Symphony Orchestra, Mandolin and Guitar Club, and Quartet, in addition to the
various class stunts and a one-act play by the Davidson College Dramatic Club.

The Symphony Orchestra, directed by John McRea, president of the Glee Club, will render several selections from favorite operas. The
orchestra has secured several excellent musicians from the incoming Freshman class and is considered to be capable of satisfying the
most critical audience. The complete Jazz Orchestra will furnish music of more modern tendency. They will play four or (Continued
on page 8)

Wells Leads Team in Last Home Game Today

When the Wildcats line up against the Tar Heels this afternoon, Lucien Wells, their captain, will take his place for
the last time on the home lot. The passing of this player will mark the close of the most brilliant
yet consistent career of any Davidson player in recent years.

During his four years of play on the Wildcat eleven Lucien has risen from the “lowly All-Americans” to the captaincy
of the team. Those four years have seen him take part in more than 30 contests and acquit himself well
in all. Especially notable was his play in the Wake Forest game last year when his sweeping end runs and
vicious tackles were the chief contributors to a 6-6 tie score. In recognition of his superior play last year he
was elected captain of the present Wildcat team.

Lucien first came to Davidson back in (Continued on page 3)

At times he has displayed a brilliancy rarely displayed by any football player.New Stadium, R.O.T.C. Drill, and Stunt Night Annual
Event is Climax to Fall Season

MANY ALUMNI RETURN

PROGRAM FOR DAY

10:45 A.M.—Calisthenics and Dress Parade by R.O.T.C. Battalion.
11:45 A.M.—Public exercises at Richardson Stadium.
1. Music by R.O.T.C. Band.
2. Invocation by Rev. J. C. Rowan, D.D., President of the Alumni Association.
3. Introduction of Mr. J. Max Hendrix, Ex-'14, of Greensboro, representing Messrs. H. S. and L. Richardson, donors of Field
and Stadium.
4. Reading of Letter of Presentation from the Messrs. Richardson.
5. Reception of Field and Stadium by the President of the College.
6. Prayer of Dedication.
7. Music. Singing of “O! Davidson,” led by the Band.
8. Address by Rev. A. A. McGeachy, D.D., '91.
9. Benediction.

1:00 P.M.—Lunch.
2:00 P.M.—Football Game, Davidson vs. University of North Carolina.
8:15 P.M.—Stunt Night in Shearer Hall.

Today is Home-Coming Day, the greatest event of the fall season at Davidson. Beginning with a demonstration by the Military
Department of the college in the morning, climaxing in the football game between the Davidson Wildcats and the University of
North Carolina in the afternoon, and capped off with a varied and lively program in Shearer Hall tonight, the day
bids fair to offer all that one could wish in the line of entertainment.

The R.O.T.C. Battalion presented an exhibition of calisthenics this morning, followed by a dress parade. Rifles were stacked on the
field and the students took their places together with alumni, faculty members, and there witnessed the presentation of the field
and stadium made possible through the generosity of H. S. and L. Richardson, brothers, of Greensboro, and the acceptance by
President Martin. Following the invocation by Rev. J. C. Rowan, D.D., president of the Alumni Association, and music by the
R.O.T.C. Band, the presentation of the field and stadium was made by Mr. J. Max Hendrix, of Greensboro, representing the
Richardson brothers, and a letter was read from the donors. Mr. Hendrix made a few personal remarks as their representative
and Dr. Martin officially received these two additions to Davidson's plant and equipment. Dr. C. M. Richards closed this phase
of the exercises with a prayer of dedication, followed by the principal address of the occasion by Dr. A. A.
McGeachy, class of 1891, present pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte.

Tigers Smother Wildcat Offensive and Take Fast Game by Aerial Attack

Brilliant Hampden-Sidney Backs Push Over Two Scores

ADKINS RUNS WILD

Grey Breaks Loose for 45-Yard Run But ’Cats Fail to Score

Suffering two consecutive defeats for the first time in several years, the Davidson Wildcats were clawed, trampled, and dragged down
to defeat by the Tigers of Hampden-Sidney last Saturday to the tune of 12 to 0. The Virginians came out
of Death Valley intent upon the purpose of defeating the North Carolinians of the same faith, and after four grueling
periods had passed away, had accomplished their purpose.

Coach Charlie Bernier, former tutor of both Davidson mentors, evidently had instructed his charges to put forth their best efforts
at the first of the game, for surely they played Davidson off their feet from the start. The Tigers’ first
score came shortly after the second quarter had opened. Hampden-Sidney punted and the ball rolled down the field, bounced against
Dick Grey's leg and was recovered by a Tiger deep into Davidson territory. A few line plays put the oval
across the coveted goal line, but the try for point was missed. Bringing memories of a notable battle staged a
year ago on the same field between the same teams, was the contest of Saturday.

(Continued on page 8)

Life Work Meetings Are Led by Noted Minister

Doctor Ben Lacy Speaks Twice Daily During First Four Days of Week

With an appeal that all Davidson men be men of works rather than hearers only, Dr. Ben Lacy, president of
Union Seminary, opened the Student Life-Work meetings last Sunday night in Shearer Hall. Dr. Lacy occupied the pulpit of the
village church in the morning and held all of the chapel exercises in the church during the week. These services
are sponsored twice yearly by the Y.M.C.A.

Taking as his text for the Sunday night service, “Be ye doers of the Word, and not hearers only, deceiving
your own selves,” Dr. Lacy spoke against snobbishness, yielding to temptation, and evil speaking. He spoke, in part, as follows:
“No Christian in working out his life has room for snobbishness, and because of this fact a great curse of
the modern world could be remedied. No man can say that he...

(Continued on page 5)

FOR STATISTICS ON TODAY’S GAME TURN TO PAGES 12 AND 13
