THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4, 1926

Joe McConnell Recovers From Appendicitis Operation—Fully Recovered

Joe McConnell is back home again after an operation for appendicitis. Joe was at a picture show in Charlotte on
the night of Saturday, January 2nd, when he suddenly became sick. He was immediately taken to the Charlotte Sanitorium and
was operated on at 5:00 o'clock Sunday morning by Dr. Stokes Monroe. He stood the operation well and has improved
steadily ever since. He came home Thursday, January 14th, and although he is still confined to his home, he is
rapidly regaining his strength.

When Joe first became sick he started to come home immediately, but decided to see a doctor first. He was
put to bed and the doctors then thought that an operation would not be necessary. A blood test taken later,
however, proved that they were mistaken, and they immediately began to prepare to operate. They were delayed a little because
of the fact that Joe’s parents, Dr. and Mrs. J. M. McConnell, were in Florida. The doctors got in contact
with an uncle who lives in Gastonia and went on with the operation, which proved successful.

The Thelemite club met with Mrs. W. W. Wood Friday afternoon. Congratulations, often difficult to express, are always gratefully received;
and their omission may mar an otherwise happy day. Discriminating folks welcome our congratulation cards, because they are attractively designed
and tactfully worded for every occasion when congratulations are in order.

CARDS for every purpose
COMMERCIAL Printers and Stationers
419 East Avenue
Charlotte, N. C.

Start the New Year off right by letting Mayhew do your cleaning and dyeing. We are prepared to give more
efficient service now than ever before.

MAYHEWS
Master Cleaner and Dyer
Representatives: E. S. Christenbury, 109 West
“Bob” Link, 31 Georgia

Davidson Student Returns to Campus After Illness

Doctor Hood Tells of Tour in Europe

Dr. Frazer Hood, Professor of Education and Psychology, who is now touring Europe, has been corresponding with various members of
the faculty during his leave of absence. In a recent letter to Captain Weems, Dr. Hood told of many of
the cities that he has visited. He has just finished a most delightful three months in Paris. During this time,
he writes that he has visited all parts of the surrounding country, and now knows Paris as well as any
American city. He also writes that he has become very interested in collections of antiques and other kinds of art.

After Dr. Hood's visit in Paris, he then went to Nice and is now visiting there. After a four week’s
stay at Nice, Dr. Hood will leave France and go to Italy. In Italy, he intends to visit Genoa, Pisa,
Florence, Rome, Naples, Venice, Milan, and a number of smaller places. After visiting these large cities, he will go to
the Italian and Swiss lakes and then to Geneva. He will again return to Paris by March 10th. After another
month in Paris, Dr. Hood with his family will go to England and Scotland for two or three months, and
then back to the United States.

During his visit at Nice and Paris, Dr. Hood has had the opportunity to meet many French officers. Dr. Hood
is now captain in the Officers’ Reserve Corps, and has always shown an interest in military training. During the war,
he was an officer and rendered valuable service to the government in the capacity of a specialist in Psychology. He
has always been a sponsor of R. O. T. C. at Davidson.

JOURNALISM SINKING
Gaylord M. Fuller in The American Mercury

No newspaperman with a memory can avoid making comparisons between New York newspapers of 25 years ago and those of
the present. But who can point out any improvement that is wholly material? There are now daily papers of 56
pages, and there are rotogravures, improved color-processes, pictures by telegraph, head-setting machines, autoplates, automobiles and airplanes deliveries, and a score
of other mechanical advances, but who can name a single improvement on the human side—that is, in craftsmanship? Has anything
worthwhile succeeded the sparkling deviltry of the old Sun, or the virile crankiness of the old Evening Post? Where are
we to look for vehement, militant political independence and disinterested championship of the public weal since The World joined Tammany
Hall? The newspapers of New York, indeed, all exhibit marked symptoms of a complication of paresis and cardiac enfeeblement. The
infection of prosperity has not only softened their moral fibre, it has weakened their hearts, so that the murmur of
leaky valves is distinctly audible.

Literary Societies

Pandenic

The last meeting of the Pandenic Literary Society was for the purpose of an election of officers and the transacting
of minor business matters. No debate was held and the house immediately went into the election of officers. Glen Eddington,
the retiring president, occupied the chair. The following men were elected: J. M. Garrison, President; L. M. McCutcheon, Vice-President; M.
A. Steele, Secretary; H. L. Shaw, First Critic; J. A. McAlpine, Second Critic; J. S. Gray, Sergeant-at-Arms. The Marshals elected
were H. L. Shaw, Chief Marshal, and Buford Webb and L. M. McCutcheon. It was decided that the next regular
meeting of the society would be for the installation of officers. Three new men were received into membership in the
society—they were Glenn Price, Oates McCullum, and D. F. Martin. After the election, a motion for adjournment was passed by
the house.

Philanthropic

The meeting of the Phi Society to be held on Thursday, February 4th promises to be one of the best
ever held. The subject to be debated upon is Resolved: That the federal government should control and operate the coal
mines. The debaters are all upperclassmen, since the subject is the one which will be used in the intercollegiate meets
this spring. The affirmative will be upheld by H. Y. Alexander, W. H. Fitts, and C. G. Davis. On the
opposing side will be L. K. Pritchett, W. S. Gordon, and B. U. Ratchford. All these men are forceful speakers,
and they are sure to handle the subject well. A special number will be given also. On the following Thursday,
the debate will be given entirely to freshmen. The subjects to be debated will be on the cancellation of the
inter-allied war debt. F. Jarmyn, H. A. Knox, and F. Hall are to oppose C. H. Mauzy, F. A. Ratchford,
and L. Wadsworth. A special number will be included inthis program, too, is not yet announced.

Metrophilian

The Metrophilian Literary Society will meet next Thursday evening at eight-thirty for the first time since examinations. “Evolution,” which has
been one of the most argued and talked about subjects during the past few years, will be discussed in an
open discussion. The regular subject for debate is, “Resolved: That the United States Should Control and operate the coal mines
in the United States.” This subject is one of the most important of the topics of the day and many
facts and ideas of practical value should be brought out in the debate. Several members of the Metrophilian Society are
out for Inter-Collegiate Debating Teams. They are: E. T. Pullen, D. H. Stewart, W. T. Covington, L. D. Wharton, H.
J. Powell, R. B. Parker, and Roland Sims. E. T. Pullen and R. B. Parker are the Metrophilian entries for
the varsity debating team. Since two members of the society were members of last year’s team, there is a good
chance that the society will be well represented on this year’s team.

those with large families, are learning to repair boots and shoes, as they know it will save them a lot
of money.

WILDCATS!

You'll find a complete line of college men’s supplies here, including memory books, pennants, candies, cigarettes, etc., etc.

---COME IN---

The Student Store

“It’s Yours---Why Not Patronize It?”

C. F. Smith, editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian, has announced the appointment of Kenneth Bell as assistant managing editor to fill
the vacancy left by the withdrawal of P. Floyd Jones. At the same time, H. L. Shelby was appointed exchange
editor to fill the place left vacant by Bell. Both Shelby and Bell are members of the Junior class, having
been in the Reporters’ Club and done valuable work in the production of The Davidsonian.

The withdrawal of Jones came as a surprise to most of the boys on the campus. Although he was progressing
well in his scholastic work and extra-curricular activities, Jones decided to leave for his home in Florida. He says that
he intends to enter the University of that state in the fall, but that until that date he will not
attend any school. Of Jones’ writing while at Davidson, the most noteworthy was a poem of the nature of parody
published in the program of the Sophomore banquet of last year.

Sunday School work and plans were discussed at a teacher’s meeting held Thursday evening at the home of Mrs. J.
R. Withers.

SUCCEED P. F. JONES

Hears Short Talks

When the speaker of the hour, Mr. P. D. Miller, President of the Student Body of Union Theological Seminary and
a graduate of Davidson, class of ’22, failed, for some unknown reason, to make his appearance at the meeting of
Ministerial Band at 2:15 Sunday afternoon, the members of the band took upon themselves the responsibility of carrying out a
program. Short, informal talks, which left their impress on the twenty-five or thirty members present, were made. Spoofy Hillhouse told
the band of the State Y. M. C. A. Convention at Raleigh, which he recently attended. He told of the
nightly work of the Y. M. C. A. in the United States, with its millions of dollars worth of property
and its thousands of trained, efficient, consecrated workers. He emphasized the part which the active minister plays in Y. M.
C. A. work. Finally, he pointed out the measureless value of the Y. M. C. A. in its work of
bringing young men and boys to a more intimate knowledge of Jesus as “a warm friend, not a far-off religious
leader.”

Don Stuart next spoke, laying particular stress upon the early morning Quiet Hour as a means of bringing men into
a closer relationship with God. “If the devil wins before breakfast he has carried half the day,” he said. Archie
Williford made the closing talk, an appeal for a stronger, more evident spirit of brotherhood among the men on the
campus who have chosen the ministry as their life work.

INTERCOLLEGIATE NOTES

The students of the University of Florida seem to be an ambitious and hustling bunch. Many of them are paying
their way entirely through school, and 95 per cent are partly working their way through.

Believing that a closer touch between the students and the members of the faculty will be of mutual benefit, Austin
College has adopted the new plan of having the professors visit the rooms in the dormitories. These visits are not
of an official nature, but merely on a friendly basis.

With ceremony proper to the occasion, the University of Missouri was formally presented with a stone from St. Paul’s Cathedral,
a gift from the British Empire Press Union to the oldest journalism school in America. Sir Esme Howard, British Ambassador
to the United States, delivered the speech of presentation. Greetings of congratulations poured in; among them were cablegrams from Dean
Inge of St. Paul’s, J. Ramsay MacDonald, former Labor Minister, Viscount Burnham, proprietor of the London Daily Telegraph, and President
of the British Empire Press Union. The stone formed a portion of one of the statues on the south pediment
of the cathedral. Placed in the new building of the School of Journalism, the stone from St. Paul’s is of
especial significance because St. Paul’s looks down on Fleet Street, Paternoster Row, and Printing House Square, which for generations have
been the center of British journalism and have been connected with all the great writers and pamphleteers of England for
generations past—The New Student.

THE PILOT

For the College Man

The Pilot Life Insurance Company provides a contract at one-half regular premium rates during the first five years. This liberal
feature makes it convenient for the college man to get his life insurance at his present age and carry it
for the least possible cost during college days. See that you get your protection from the Pilot.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
GREENSBORO, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, President

AT EFIRD’S

New Stetson Hats, $8.00

Smart collegiate hats---by Stetson---all the new colors, shapes, and regulation Stetson hat-bands. Special selections - $8.00

Fashion Park Clothiers

The new Spring Suits are arriving daily now---made at Fashion Park by expert tailors in the most approved styles for
young collegians. Exclusive with Efird’s in Charlotte.

Efird’s Men’s Dept., Street Floor
