THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 21, 1926

Alumni Notes

Henry Martin White, '24, address for the next two months will be care of Mrs. E. S. Sanford, Ward, Pa.

Neil R. Currie, '23, is teaching chemistry at Hiram College, Hiram, O. He has finished two years' work toward his Ph.D. at Cornell and hopes to resume his work later and secure his degree.

O. M. Brown, '25, is taking post-graduate work at the University of North Carolina.

J. P. Booth, N. C.

Rev. George L. Cooper, '17, is pastor of the Trinity Avenue Presbyterian Church at Durham, N. C.

Rev. C. H. Phipps, '08, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Princeton, W. Va., and one evidence of his splendid work there is the fact that he is president of the Rotary Club of that city.

Davidson is represented on the faculty of the McCallie School at Chattanooga, Tenn., by R. E. Boggs, Jr., W. W. Purdy, Jr., and C. M. S. McIlwaine, all of the class of '24.

Rev. E. L. Flannagan, '07, of Wilson, N. C., has accepted the pastorate of the West End Church, of Atlanta. His address there is 260 Gordon St.

Rev. R. S. Burwell, '75, has resigned the pastorate of Hopewell Church, in Mecklenburg County, and as soon as he can build a new home he will come to Davidson to live. Mr. Burwell has bought a lot on Concord Road and during the spring months he will have an attractive residence built.

Will McK. Fetzer, '06, has resigned as head coach at the University of North Carolina, and will devote himself to real estate business in Brevard, N. C. Mr. Fetzer has been in charge of a prosperous camp for boys near Brevard for 12 years, and he has invested in large holdings in the community.

CHAMPION Electric Shoe Fixery
YOUR SHOES FIXED BETTER
Between White Drug Company and post office
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see
FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Volunteers Study Foreign Missions

The Volunteer Band met Sunday morning at ten o'clock, as usual. John Bradley read a letter from China, describing conditions there, telling about the war, and showing the need of more missionaries in that field. At the meeting held January the 10th the band voted to undertake a program of intensive study of the various foreign mission fields. It was decided that they should be studied in relation to their need of missionaries in the following order: Africa, Japan, China, Mexico, Brazil, Porto Rico, and India. Each member was given a special phase of each field to study and report on. In this way it is hoped that the urgent need of missionaries in the various fields will be put forcibly before the Davidson volunteers.

The North Carolina Confederation of Volunteers for the Foreign Mission Fields will hold a conference at the North Carolina College for Women at Greensboro between the 26th and 28th of February. An interesting program has been planned for the occasion. Every student in the college is cordially invited to attend. All the volunteers are urged to go, for we are sure that the conference will prove to be of great help to them in the preparation of their life work.

PAT CRAWFORD TALKS
(Continued from page 1)

"It is high time to wake out of sleep." From this verse he chose as the theme of his talk: "What is the greatest need of a college man today?" He said that "this is one of the great problems that confront every college man, and one that he should solve early in his college life. It has to be met, so we must wake out of our sleep before it is too late, and we have drifted through our college days, not having found a purpose in life."

"When Christ chose His disciples, He did not go to the city and choose the lawyers and doctors there. Instead, He went to the seashore, and chose men of great physical strength. Christ had a good physique Himself. He organized them into the greatest organization that the world has ever known. But strength is not the greatest need of a college man today.

"We may look at the need from another angle. Let us consider knowledge. It is a fine thing to make high marks, and the world recognizes well-trained men. They expect college men to be leaders. But this isn't the greatest need. How about popularity? Boys try to see who can be the most popular. Ty Cobb, the most popular man in baseball, says that he wished he could do something else besides play ball, for he did not feel that he had bettered the world when he has finished this life. Jim Thorpe, the greatest of Indian athletes, played a game of football the other day before only 300 spectators. His popularity is gone. It is here today and gone tomorrow. We must build our foundation stronger.

"Our great need is to find what God's purpose is for us in life. We must do certain things to find that purpose. First, we must meet God's approval, by doing God's will, and keeping in close communion with Him. His love brings happiness. Second, we must be humble, forgetting haughty pride. Christ did not have a haughty spirit. A sure sign of success is the man who is willing to be humble. Third, we must be visual. Sometimes we drift along through college in a trance; we must have forethought."

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

INSURANCE
We know the cost of not carrying it.
Insurance Department.
McA. CARSON, Mgr. ('13)
Independence Trust Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Harper's Magazine Will Hold Literary Contest for Best Prose Effort
Three Large Prizes Will be Awarded Winners in Nation Wide Contest

With the purpose of stimulating in American colleges and universities, other than technological institutions, the writing of high-quality prose, such as is suitable for magazine publication, Harper's Magazine announces an Annual Intercollegiate Literary Contest. It is a part of the policy of Harper's Magazine to encourage young American writers in various ways, as indicated by the Short Story Prize Contest and the Harper Prize Novel Contest, both of which were recently conducted under the auspices of this magazine. This contest will be held for the first time during the present academic year, 1926.

The prizes offered are as follows: first prize of $500, second prize of $300, and a third prize of $200. The manuscript submitted to be eligible must have been written by an undergraduate of an American college or university not later than May 1, 1926. The prose manuscript shall be not more than 4,000 words long, or 5,000 words in the case of fiction. The rules of the contest allow each institution to be represented by only five manuscripts, which after being selected by the head of the English department of each institution, will be forwarded to Harper's Magazine.

It is hoped that the students of Davidson College will enter into this contest heartily and do good work. Through some contests previously conducted by Harper's Magazine, several writers comparatively unknown beforehand have been made famous.

A complete copy of the conditions governing the contest, as distributed by Harper's Magazine is as follows:

1. The universities and colleges to which it is open are those on the...Accepted list approved by the Association of American Universities, the technological institutions, omitting each of these colleges and universities will be entitled to enter not more than five manuscripts to represent it in the contest, selected by the head of the English department or his authorized deputy, under the conditions given below.

3. Manuscripts, to be eligible, must be the original work of enrolled students in any of the undergraduate departments of the college or university. They must be written in prose, but may be stories, essays, articles, or any other form of prose work suitable for magazine publication. Translations or adaptations are ineligible. The limit of length is 7,000 words in the case of stories, 4,000 in the case of articles, essays, etc. Manuscripts which have been published elsewhere than in a college magazine or college newspaper are ineligible; but the fact that a manuscript has been published in a college magazine or college newspaper shall not exclude it from consideration. It is understood that, subject to the above conditions, manuscripts written as themes in English courses, or for college papers, otherwise shall be equally eligible.

4. The manuscripts (not more than five in number) to be entered from each college or university shall be selected by the head of the English department, or his deputy, not later than May 1, 1926, from among those submitted to him by enrolled undergraduates. The selected manuscripts shall be mailed to Intercollegiate Literary Contest, Harper's Magazine, 49 East 33rd Street, New York City, not later than midnight on May 1, 1926, together with a letter from the head of the English department or his deputy, stating that each of them complies with the conditions of eligibility set forth in Rule 3 above. Each manuscript shall be typewritten and shall bear the name and address of the author. Manuscripts mailed later than midnight on May 1, 1926, will be disqualified.

5. After the manuscripts entered from the various colleges and universities (as outlined above) have been received in the office of Harper's Magazine, the final release of the prize-winners will be made by a Board consisting of three distinguished writers, Christopher Morley, author of Thunder on the Left, Zona Gale, author of Miss Lulu Bett, Faint Perfume, William McFee, author of Command, Casuals of the Sea, etc. It is hoped that it will be possible to announce the names of the prize winners by June 1.

Professor Vowels Lectures to Band

Prof. G. R. Vowles was the speaker at the meeting of the Ministerial Band Sunday afternoon on “Temptations of a Minister of the Gospel.” Franklin read the scripture lesson from John 21:15-17. In speaking of some of the temptations besetting a minister, Prof. Vowles mentioned the fact that some ministers have the temptation of being lazy, physically and intellectually. He cautioned the members of the band to fill each day with things worthwhile; to keep in close personal contact with others; and to read in order to keep up with literature as well as with topics of the day. The fact was brought out that statistics were often substituted for the kingdom of God. Forces are divided in trying to get numbers and the opportunity of uniting is overlooked. This is especially true of the small town.

Professor Vowles mentioned that when a minister finds deadening influences in the congregation he is often tempted to scold. However, if he has patience and kindness he will exert a greater influence. Other temptations spoken of were, that of seeking financial gain, of being too easily satisfied when good results are not obtained, and of being so anxious to get results that extreme means are used. “The greatest attribute of the minister is love. That type of love that can be strict and at the same time hold the utmost respect. If the love of Jesus is possessed, then all these temptations may be easily turned away,” Professor Vowles concluded.

R. O. T. C. UNIT INSPECTED

(Continued from page 1)

The remarkable improvement made by the battalion along military lines within the past year. At the time of the inspection a year ago Colonel Rowell stated that the marked evidences of self-control evidenced by members of the unit at that time were somewhat lacking as was indicated by a certain amount of unsteadiness in ranks during the course of the inspection. During the last inspection, however, the members of the battalion, and the units composing it, gave every indication of maintaining a high standard of discipline, and this, with the good personal appearance of members of the R. O. T. C., has put the battalion on a high plane of military efficiency. Captain Weems has expressed himself as being very much pleased with the result of the inspection. His entire efforts during the past year have been concentrated along the line of making the R. O. T. C. unit one of the best in the Fourth Corps Area. He has given special attention to the fitting of uniforms, the keeping of the uniforms in good condition at all times, and he has so impressed the battalion with his earnestness and enthusiasm in his efforts to build up the esprit and military efficiency of the unit that his ardor has proven contagious. As a result, every man in the R. O. T. C. is doing his individual best to develop the unit to the highest possible standard.

The work of Major Huie, cadet battalion commander, and his company commanders, has brought results that are very gratifying to both Captain Weems and his assistants. All the cadet officers put forth their best efforts in preparation for the recent inspection and these efforts, with the support given by the members of the battalion, contributed largely to the splendid showing made by the unit. During Colonel Rowell’s visit he was the guest of Captain Weems and was entertained at dinners or luncheons by Dr. and Mrs. Martin, Captain and Mrs. Daughtery, Captain and Mrs. Elkins, and others.

Ginger-Ale Jo the World Over for Seventy-Five Years
Cantrell & Cochrane, Ltd.
DUBLIN BELFAST NEW YORK
E. & J. Burke, Ltd.
Sole Agents U. S. and Canada
Long Island City, N. Y.

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

Start the New Year off right by letting Mayhew do your cleaning and dyeing. We are prepared to give more efficient service now than ever before.
MAYHEWS
Master Cleaner and Dyer
Representatives:
H. S. Christenbury, 109 West
“Bob” Link, 31 Georgia

VICTOR RECORDS OUT TOMORROW--NEW

Song of the Vagabonds. (From the Vagabond King) Dennis King and Light Opera Company. Only a Rose. (From the Vagabond King) Carolyn Thompson. Victor Record No. 19897, 10-inch.

Sleepy Time Gal. Five Foot Two, Eyes of Blue. With ukulele and piano. Gene Austin. Victor Record No. 19899, 10-inch.

These new Victor records will liven up any party. Come in today and let us play them for you---on the New Orthophonic Victrola.
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
MUSIC DEPT.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Fond of You. Medley Fox Trot. (From Captain Jinks.) Journey’s End. Fox Trot. (From the City Chap.) George Olsen and his Music. Victor Record No. 19896, 10-inch.

Beside a Silv’ry Stream. Fox Trot. Good-night. Fox Trot. With vocal refrain. Herbert Berger’s Coronado Hotel Orchestra. Victor Record No. 19898, 10-inch.