THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1926

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Caldwell Withers

The splendid showing of the Davidson backfield in the Wofford contest last Saturday was encouraging to the Red and Black
supporters. A great deal of improvement was noticed in the playing of the entire line. The first line of defense
was conspicuously weak in the Elon game. That a tough road lay ahead of the Wildcats next Saturday was attested
by the way Presbyterian College trounced Clemson Saturday. The Blue Stockings invaded the lair of the Tigers and helped them
celebrate in real fashion their Home-coming Day. The only encouraging element about the battle for Davidson is that Clemson's team
is unusually weak this fall.

Hampden-Sidney, an opponent that Davidson meets in Charlotte later in the season, surprised even its most ardent supporters when they
tied the University of Virginia. The result of the game was one of the most startling upsets of the weekend.
Last year Davidson was slated to win their contest with the Virginia Presbyterians, but the game resulted in a heart-rending
6 to 6 tie.

Two other foes of the Wildcats marshaled their forces against each other when Carolina and Wake Forest met at the
Deacon's stronghold last Saturday. The Baptists shot the Tar Heel defense to pieces in the first period and pushed over
two touchdowns and one extra point. The flashy Riley, playing Wake Forest's flanks, grabbed a batch of passes and was
mainly responsible for the downfall of the University boys for the third consecutive time.

Backfield Sweeps Through Wofford as Leggette, Grey, and McConnell Show Form

With the football season well under way, comparison of the schedules of the North Carolina teams reveals many hard contests
on tap for the gridiron warriors of the state. Practically every team in the territory has a complete schedule and
will meet teams of varying strength throughout the South. Duke University travels north in the middle of October to take
on Columbia University in one of the most outstanding inter-sectional matches of the year. Duke has yet to be tried
as they had a walk-away against Guilford last week.

Carolina, in addition to several state teams, takes on the Universities of Tennessee, South Carolina, Virginia, and Maryland. Davidson plays
three South Carolina teams, in Clemson, Furman, and South Carolina. Davidson sticks to North Carolina for only six of its
ten games, playing V. M. I., Hampden-Sidney, Furman, and Wofford, out of the state. The Wildcats defeated the South Carolina
Methodists last Saturday.

Last year when Wake Forest beat Carolina, many of the papers of the state proclaimed them state champions. The Baptists’
hopes were given a rude jolt some weeks later when Davidson pulled a startling number of tricks out of the
lucky bag and tied the Deacons 7 to 7. The season is yet too young to make any predictions as
to the mythical champions of the state.

Leggette, of Davidson, and Spurlock, of Lenoir, are the leading scoring backs of the state at the end of the
second week of the 1926 season. Both backs have scored three touchdowns. Griggs and Cathey, both of Duke, Riley from
Wake Forest, and Wells, of Davidson, are next in line with 12 points apiece.

The college authorities have promised additional tennis courts to be built behind Watts dormitory. This extra athletic equipment is most
sorely needed at Davidson. Davidson is perhaps better known outside of the state through the powers of the net stars
who have graced its courts lately than in any other branch of sports. Wrestling is the only possible exception to
this statement. Last year the wrestlers, under the able direction of Captain Weems, won most of their matches during its
barnstorming tour through Virginia and Maryland. The grapplers have elected C. G. Davis as manager for the coming season, and
Davis has arranged matches with a number of schools, including West Point.

Prospects for a great Freshman team this year are brighter each week. Coach Mattox will be able to put a
first-class line on the field that will outweigh the varsity from tackle to tackle.

You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, DAVIDSON, N.C.

The schedules follow:

Carolina
October 2—University of Tennessee, at Knoxville.
October 9—University of South Carolina, at Chapel Hill.
October 16—Duke University, at Chapel Hill.
October 23—University of Maryland, at College Park, Maryland.
October 30—North Carolina State, at Chapel Hill.
November 6—V. M. I., at Richmond.
November 13—Davidson, at Davidson.
November 23—University of Virginia, at Charlottesville.

Duke
October 2—Richmond University, at Richmond.
October 9—Elon, at Durham.
October 16—Carolina, at Chapel Hill.
October 23—Columbia University, at New York.
October 30—Wake Forest, at Goldsboro.
November 11—North Carolina State, at Raleigh.
November 20—Wofford, at Durham.
November 25—Davidson, at Durham.

Davidson
October 2—Presbyterian College, at Rock Hill.
October 9—Guilford, at Davidson.
October 14—North Carolina State, at Raleigh.
October 23—Wake Forest, at Charlotte.
October 30—V. M. I., at Lexington.
November 6—Hampden-Sidney, at Charlotte.
November 13—University of North Carolina, at Davidson.
November 25—Duke University, at Durham.

Elon
October 2—Guilford, at Elon.
October 23—Georgetown University, at Washington.
October 30—Hampden-Sidney, at Elon.
November 6—Wake Forest, at Wake Forest.
November 13—Lynchburg, at Elon.
November 20—Emory and Henry, at Emory and Henry.

State
October 2—Furman, at Raleigh.
October 9—Clemson College, at Clemson.
October 14—Davidson, at Raleigh.
October 23—V. M. I., at Richmond.
October 30—University of North Carolina, at Chapel Hill.
November 6—Lenoir-Rhyne, at Raleigh.
November 11—Duke University, at Raleigh.
November 20—University of South Carolina, at Columbia.

Playing on a field that was at times almost obscured from view on account of the dust, the Davidson Wildcats
last Saturday defeated the Wofford Terriers at Spartanburg 24 to 6. The proteges of Monk Younger succeeded in scoring in
every period and had the upper hand at every stage of the game. The greater reserve strength of the Presbyterians
proved the undoing of the Methodists. Davidson started the game with six of its regulars on the sidelines, and this
outfit composed of substitutes and old-timers scored a touchdown and the point-after touchdown in less than two minutes after play
had commenced. After Kirkley, Wofford half, had fumbled one of Dick Grey’s kicks, and Davidson had recovered, the team, under
the guidance of Lawton, Lever, DeHihns, and Wright, showed best form in that they made Davidson's total score 14.Stick closely
to the state. Ed Wilson drove the remaining 35 yards to the goal line. Harrison led the attack in this
drive, making a sensational run of about 20 yards and placing Davidson in a scoring position. Black rammed the line
for the first blood and later Bohannon kicked the extra point. Shortly after the initial scoring, on the second punt
of an exchange, the oval bounced wildly and touched Grey on the leg with Wofford recovering on Davidson’s 18-yard line.
Wright made two short gains through the line and, after Wofford had suffered a 15-yard penalty, De Hihns, diminutive quarter
for the Terriers, snatched a hand-over-head pass tossed by Wright and ran to the four-yard line. Kirkley and Fleming made
three yards, but on the next play Davidson was off-side. In two more plays Wright took the ball over, crossing
the Red and Black line by two inches. The entire Davidson line smashed through to break up Wright's attempted kick
for extra point. A 60-yard punt by Grey put the Wildcats in another scoring position. After Wofford had punted, Kel
made a scintillating 20-yard run through a broken field. Then Dick Grey took the oval to the 12-yard line, where
after four plays, Leggette took the ball over and Bohannon booted a perfect placement. The third period opened with a
series of flashy sprints by the entire Davidson backfield. The drive was culminated with a beautiful 26-yard dash by Sam
Black which put the ball in a scoring position. The Wofford line tightened but Grey dropped back and sent a
well-directed dropkick through the bars to run up the score to 17 to 6.

(Continued on page 5)

October 23—Davidson, at Charlotte.
October 30—Duke University, at Goldsboro.
November 6—Elon, at Wake Forest.
November 13—William and Mary, at Norfolk.
November 20—Guilford, at Wake Forest.
November 25—North Carolina State, at Raleigh.

$1.25 “Collegiate Stationery”
Place your order today for your personal name and address stationery printed, also with college seal.
TWO-FOLD SIZE: large sheets, 50 envelopes
NOTE SIZE: 200 note sheets, 100 envelopes
Stock is heavy 24-lb. Collegiate Bond. Prompt service and your satisfaction guaranteed.
STUDENTS’ STORE
DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Griffith, playing right tackle and mentioned last year as an all-S. I. A. A. tackle; Kirven, at center; Stamps and
Hogrefe, in the backfield. Griffith, the captain, Kirven and Stamps caused the Wildcats no little trouble last year. Hogrefe is
a Sophomore and is the speed demon of the P. C. backfield. At a track meet last year he took
first place in the hundred-yard dash, making the distance in 10 seconds. Last year the Wildcats found it difficult to
win over P. C., having to amass all of their strength to defeat them by a 13 to 0 score.
P. C. emerged from her game with Clemson without any injuries and will have her full strength, while the Wildcats
will be minus the services of Captain Wells, Sook Boggs, and Dan Leftwich. Wells and Boggs are not eligible and
Leftwich is out with a sprained ankle. Neither team has met with defeat this year and the Blue Stockings of
Presbyterian College are out to avenge the defeat they suffered at the hands of the Wildcats last year. The prospective
line-up follows:

Local High School Plans for Season
The Davidson High School team, under the capable direction of A. S. Farnsworth and J. A. King, has been going
through some strenuous work-outs since the opening of school. The team is outweighed several pounds to the man by most
of their opponents, but the boys as well as their coaches are working hard, and expect to put out a
team that will be a credit to their school. In the game last Friday between the Chester, S. C., High
School and the Davidson High School, the local boys came out on the short end of a 20 to 0
score, but not because they did not fight. They did their best from the first to the last, but were
not able to hold their heavier opponents. They were outweighed by at least 20 to 25 pounds per man. The
game which was scheduled to be played here tomorrow with the Concord High School has been cancelled. The next game
is with Troutman, at Barium Springs, next Friday. The line-up is as follows:

McConnell .......... C
McClure ............ RG
McConnell .......... LG
Wilson ............. RT
McConnell .......... LT
McGowan ........... RE
McGowan ........... LE
McConnell .......... QB
McClure ............ RH
McGowan ........... LH
Williamson ......... FB

The Bible is the world’s best seller, 9,069,120 having been sold during the past year.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE
Charlotte, N.C.

PEPPERMINT FLAVOR
Used by People of Refinement—Because Wrigley’s, besides being a delightful confection, affords beneficial exercise to the teeth and clears them
of food particles. Also it aids digestion.

After Every Meal

WHOLESALE
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

OPEN
November 25—Wake Forest, at Raleigh.
Wake Forest
Monday Morning
October 2—Wofford, at Salisbury.
October 9—Furman University, at Greenville.
October 16—Presbyterian College, at Asheville
