THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1926

FRATERNITIES AT DAVIDSON | ORGANIZED FOR MANY YEARS

Edgar Woods Speaks to Students at “Y” Sunday
Prominent Alumnus Makes Interesting Talk

Rev. Edgar Woods, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, N. C., was the speaker at the “Y” vesper services last Sunday night. Mr. Woods is a graduate of Davidson of the class of 1919. W. S. Woods, of the Senior class, is a brother of Rev. Mr. Woods. The speaker was introduced by one of his fellow collegemates, Mr. J. P. Williams, who called attention to the prominence of Rev. Mr. Woods during his college career.

The subject of the speaker’s talk was, “A General Idea of Self-Respect.” He mentioned the brave stand of the 300 Spartans against the host of Persians for that which they held sacred. They were fighting for love of home. Then, he used the illustration of the multitudes of people of the European countries who joined the Crusaders to fight to regain the birthplace of Christ. Bringing the subject home to his audience, the speaker reminded his listeners that their bodies were temples of the living God. He exhorted the students to fight for this temple with the same self-respect the Spartans fought for their homes. Some of the ways the speaker suggested this be done was the careful selection of friends, reading and other environments, and the ability to say NO when confronted with temptation. In the same way the country guards the health and welfare, so we should guard this temple of the living God.

The way to obtain honor such as Robert E. Lee had when he refused to sell his name for an unworthy cause is to have cleanliness of thought, speech, and action; faithfulness in life and work. “The world is crying for men with vision to lead it on. If any man stands aloof and lets his opportunity go by he will be met with shame later in life.” Closing his talk with the story of Will Spencer, of Northwestern University, who plunged through the surf on 16 different occasions to rescue 17 people; when he was taken exhausted from the water his words were, “Did I do my best?” so it will be with us when we come to the end of our life, “Did we do our best?”

Calendar

Thursday, October 21
7:30—Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies.
8:15—Pandemic Literary Society.

Friday, October 22
7:00—Band Practice—Armory.
7:30—International Relations Club.
8:00—Glee Club Practice—Shearer Hall.
9:00—Alpha Phi Epsilon.

Saturday, October 23
3:00—Football—Wake Forest vs. Davidson, at Charlotte.

Sunday, October 24
10:15—Student Volunteer Band—Shearer Hall.
11:15—Church.
1:45—Christian Endeavor Training Class.
2:30—Ministerial Band.
6:15—"Y" Vesper Service—Mr. Glasgow, of Charlotte.

Monday, October 25
7:00—Glee Club—Shearer Hall.
7:30—Court of Control.
7:00—Omicron-Delta Kappa.

Tuesday, October 26
7:00—Band Practice—Armory.
7:15—Junior Week Committees.
7:30—Sigma Pi Sigma.
9:00—Delta Pi Kappa.

Wednesday, October 27
7:00—Glee Club Practice—Shearer Hall.
9:00—Scabbard and Blade.

COMMITTEES FOR JUNIOR (Continued from page 1)
Leo Pritchett, Chalmers Davidson, Julian Lake, Dave Howard, Herman Campbell.
Financial Committee: Dick Carr, chairman; Harry Peterson, vice-chairman; Duncan McEachern, Jack Montgomery, Charlie Trabue, Bob Lowrance, Johnny Dulin.
Staff of Sanity Rare: Editorial, Caldwell Withers, editor; Wit Hancock, Boyce Martin, W. L. Lingle, Jimmie Wharton, Malcolm Murchison.
Business: Bud Guthery, business manager; Carter Rowe, Martin Crawford, Julian Lake, E. L. Douglas.
Art: J. P. McKnight, Bob Platt.

Social fraternities exist in almost every college or university in the United States, except in the state-owned and state-controlled institutions of South Carolina and Mississippi, which states prohibit the existence of such organizations. The pressure of the fraternities is poignantly felt in the college life. Sometimes it may be for good; it might be for evil. But it is believed that the good from such groups at Davidson supersedes and counter-balances the bad effects that originate therefrom.

Fraternities had their inception at this Presbyterian institution in 1859, when the Chi Pi fraternity was originated. Its existence was secret, and nothing has been known of it since that time. Ten years later, in 1869, the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity was organized at Davidson. When its badges were displayed the college expressed its disapproval, and the chapter acquiesced to the wishes of the officials, returning its charter to the national body. It was 1893 before the charter was again granted.

The first fraternity at Davidson to gain open and official recognition was the Sigma Alpha Epsilon, which was established in 1883. Three years before that, Kappa Alpha was organized, but it secretly existed until 1884, a year following the organization of the S. A. E. fraternity. The Mystic Seven was organized in 1885, but four years later was merged into a chapter of Beta Theta Pi. The Kappa Sigmas were established in 1890. For one year, 1887-1888, the Phi Alpha Chi fraternity existed at Davidson, but nothing was heard of it after that. Sigma Nu Kappa was mentioned in the annual of 1897, but little is known of it beyond this.

Within the last several years there has been a marked increase in the number of such organizations at Davidson. In 1923, the Bachelors Club, which had been existing for approximately 10 years, received a charter from Phi Gamma Delta. The Phi Alpha Pi local fraternity merged into Theta Upsilon Omega fraternity in 1924, after three years of life. The Pi Kappa Phis were reinstated in this same year, having been in existence at Davidson during the years of 1911 and 1918, and when reorganized as a local in 1924, was known as the Kappa Phi fraternity.

This makes a total of eight national fraternities at Davidson today. In addition, there are three locals—Delta Theta Chi, Sigma Delta, and Pyramid Club. The first named has been on the Davidson campus for six years, while the last two had their beginning within the past three years. The grand total of fraternities here is eleven.

Little difference is noticeable between the percentage of students in fraternities today and in 1892. In March of that year, 42 percent of the student body were members. In the scholastic year of 1924-1925, 44 percent were in social fraternities. In 1892 the total enrollment was 150 students, while it exceeds 650 now, showing that there has been a proportionate increase. Statistics show that in 1919-1920 only 25 percent of the students were members, but the addition of six fraternities in the past six years has accounted for the increased percentage in the membership.

With almost half of the students of Davidson in fraternities, and half without the portals, the question is asked whether or not factions exist, each which combat the other in student body elections. The consensus of opinion seems to be that there is less feeling of antagonism between the men in fraternities and those outside than at present is prevalent at any other school. The offices of the student body seem to be equally divided. Last year two of the most outstanding men were non-fraternity students, these men being the president of the Y. M. C. A., and the editor of The Davidsonian. Men are generally elected on their merits at Davidson.and not on their social prestige or rating on the campus, as judged by fraternity membership. Many people condemn fraternities unwarrantedly. They look upon one student sometimes as a criterion, and oftentimes he is one who did not take advantage of a fraternity’s assets; hence, they judge all such organizations as being millstones instead of milestones. Others judge fraternities as a whole by what they know of one chapter, which might be the worst organization of that nature in school. Others condemn them upon hearsay. There are advantages and disadvantages. The former outweigh the latter if the student is the right kind of person. One of the strongest arguments of those opposed to such organizations is that the social life distracts a student from his studies—that a fraternity is a breeding place for procrastination. Again, it can be asserted that it rests with the individual. The college officials at Davidson require a scholastic standard before a student can be pledged to a fraternity or taken into the organization. An inter-fraternity cup is offered to that group which makes the highest average, the cup rotating from year to year, unless a fraternity keeps it three years straight, and then it becomes permanent property. The interest within the fraternities at Davidson is keen in relationship to their scholastic rating, and it has been shown that the general fraternity average is on a par with that of the student body. The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity last year received a cup from their national association for having the highest scholastic rating of any of the 69 groups in that fraternity, and they also received the local cup. In order to raise himself in the estimation of fellow members and in order to boost the standard of the fraternity, the student oftentimes studies harder.

PHI BETA KAPPA ELECTS FOUR NEW MEN

The Davidson College chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity, announces the election of four new men. The newly elected men are W. A. Christian, W. S. Woods, W. T. Covington, and H. M. Austin. These four men stand highest in their class in scholarship and each has averaged well over ninety percent for the past three years. All four of the men are members of the present senior class and are the first men to be chosen by the Phi Beta Kappa from the class. It is very probable that other members of the senior class will be honored by the fraternity at a later election this year. The four men have, without exception, taken a leading part in campus activities, and each one of them holds membership in other honorary organizations on the campus.

Prominent Men to Lead Vespers During Autumn

Mr. Glasgow and Dr. Lacy Well Known Here

Mr. Tom Glasgow, one of Charlotte's most prominent business men and civic leaders, has been secured by the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet to speak to the Davidson men at their Vesper Service next Sunday night. This will not be Mr. Glasgow's first appearance in Davidson as a speaker at the “Y” meeting. On several occasions he has spoken to the Davidson men and his messages have been at once forceful and helpful. Mr. Glasgow is a man of wide interests. He is prominently associated with a number of religious and civic organizations in Charlotte, being especially attracted to any kind of work which has to do with the development of Christian citizenship. Mr. Glasgow is a graduate of Washington and Lee University. While at W. and L. he was noted as one of their outstanding athletes.

It will be of keen interest to all Davidson men to know that Dr. Ben Lacy, who is now President of the Union Theological Seminary, will be on the campus November 4th through the 7th to conduct the student evangelistic services. Dr. Lacy is a graduate of Davidson and one of his alma mater’s most highly esteemed alumni. He has spoken on several occasions to the students and by virtue of his wonderful personality and sincere appeal he has won the love and admiration of all Davidson men. The student evangelistic service is a semi-annual event at Davidson and is looked forward to with keen anticipation by the entire student body.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Change in Alumni Reunions Planned

Alumni returning to Davidson have criticized the manner in which they have been received. Under the present system of having every five-year class return, they complain that they meet men older or younger than those with whom they were associated in college. For this reason, a plan of having classes return in groups is being discussed. For instance, classes between 1900 and 1905 would return at one commencement. Another group, 1905 to 1910, would return the following year, and the other groups of five would continue in this manner till all had been here once. Then the first group would have its second reunion, and the others would follow in order.

Suggestions from all alumni and their opinions as to the feasibility of this plan will be greatly appreciated. All alumni interested in this subject are requested to write to the Alumni Secretary.

’CATS HAVE CLASHED
(Continued from page 2)
1916—No game.
1917—W.-F. 7; Dav. 72; at Greensboro.
1918—No game.
1919—W. F. 0; Dav. 21; at Davidson.
1920—W. F. 7; Dav. 27; at Charlotte.
1921—W. F. 10; Dav. 7; at Charlotte.
1922—W. F. 6; Dav. 6; at Charlotte.
1923—W. F. 6; Dav. ; at Charlotte.
1924—No game.
1925—W. F. 7; Dav. 7; at Charlotte.
Total 67 259

BRONCHITIS
Apply Vicks at bedtime, rubbing it well in. Then spread on thickly and cover with hot flannel. Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

THE BEST PLACE TO EAT
Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE

FOR THAT TASTE OF Home Cooking
On Your Way Home
New York Cafe
29 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

This Hotel is Yours to use for all FEEDS AND BANQUETS no matter how large or how small, we can serve you. Regular board—reasonable—and the best your money can buy. Music in the evenings.
MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
DAVIDSON, N. C.

O, SIR!
Men have decidedly emphatic ideas of what they require of footwear now—and the number of Gilmer-Moore customers are continually increasing. Have you seen our Fall lines for young men? They're the best we’ve ever had!
SHOES
“Since 1808 the Home of Good Shoes”
GILMER-MOORE COMPANY
We Never Hear a Man Ask for “Just Anything” in Footwear Nowadays
HOSIERY
LUGGAGE

Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia

Introducing to the readers of the Davidsonian
REV. BENJAMIN R. LACY, Jr. D. D.
A. B. of Davidson, 1906
D. D. of Davidson, 1919
President of Union Theological Seminary

25% Reduction on TICKETS!
Dyeing, Cleaning, Pressing, Altering
WHO'S WHO in service and quality?
CITY DRY CLEANERS
Ask any customer—24 hour service
Branch Mgr. Harllee Bordeaux.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Branch Office, 21 Rumple