; THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

Get your Hats Cleaned and Re-blocked. We make 'em like new.
The Central Hat Shop
Shoe shine in connection.
Established in 1900.
Phone 1632
8 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

EASTER DANCES
We have a complete line of masquerade costumes and Tuxedos for rent.
Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Ten Girls From Queens College Are Leaders at Sunday Vesper Service
Leadership is Subject of Inspiring Service
MISS TRENT LEADS
Many Vocal and Instrumental Musical Selections Are Rendered During Program

A unique program was presented at the weekly “Y” service Sunday evening by ten Queens College students, composing a deputation
from the Y. W. C. A. of that institution. The general topic discussed was “Christian Leadership,” which was developed in
three interesting and instructive talks. The subjects of these talks were, first, “What a Leader Is," by Miss Frances Steele;
second, “Rewards of Leadership,” by Miss Pauline Owen, and third, “Conditions Needing Leaders,” by Miss Lutie Trent, vice-president of the
Queens Y. W. C. A. During the program three delightful musical selections were rendered, a vocal solo, “The Resurrection,” sung
by Miss Anna May Pritchette, accompanied by Miss Nancy Monroe; a violin solo, played by Miss Mittie Steen, accompanied by
Miss Mary Emma Frazier, and a vocal duet, sung by Misses Annie Barton McFall and Juanita Honeycutt, accompanied by Miss
Monroe.

Miss Lutie Trent was the leader of the program and introduced to the Davidson students the other members of the
deputation. A short devotional service preceded the main part of the program. This consisted of a scripture reading on Faith
by Miss Georgie Shrum, president-elect of the Y. W. C. A., and a prayer by the leader. Miss Steele, in
her talk, “What a Leader Is,” ably outlined the requisites of a true leader. A leader, she said, either drives
with a big stick or with the still small voice. She urged that the students do not use the big
stick but adopt the still small voice of service as a ruling factor in their lives, thus becoming Christian leaders.

All the people cannot be world and national leaders, said Miss Owen, in her talk, “Rewards of Leadership,” but to
everyone there opens opportunities to lead in some small way at least. Leadership is not without recompense, and unselfish service
in Christian leadership always brings satisfaction and happiness. In her talk, “Conditions Needing Leaders,” Miss Trent gave a startling challenge
to students. She pointed out the wide fields waiting for leaders of the right sort and stressed the appalling need
for Christian leaders. The beautiful song, “The Resurrection,” sung by Miss Pritchette in a mellow contralto voice, was very impressive
and constituted an attractive part of the program. Miss Honeycutt and Miss McFall chose as their duet a familiar and
much-loved hymn, “Out of the Ivory Palaces.” This is an appealing and uplifting song and was admirably sung. Miss Steen
played two selections on the violin. A violin has an effect that no other instrument has, and Miss Steen knew
how to get just the right tone.

The deputation was accompanied by Miss Annie Parks Moore, the secretary of the Alumni Association of Queens College. She led
in prayer at the last of the service. The ten students from Queens gave Davidson a well-prepared and inspiring program.
It has been a custom for the past several years for the Y. W. C. A. of Queens to send
a deputation to Davidson each spring and usually Davidson has sent a deputation at some time during the year to
the Y. W. C. A. This deputation was sent this year in the fall.

“Y” Cabinet Sends Many Deputations
The Y. M. C. A. of Davidson College has assumed a larger sphere of responsibility than service to its immediate
membership in the student body, and in accordance with this widened vision has been carrying on a series of deputations,
undertaken by the student members, with the object of helping and uplifting the people of the surrounding country. Last week
two such trips were taken. A. H. Hollingsworth, president of the “Y,” attended the Rutherford Older Boys’ Conference, which was
sponsored by the County Kiwanis clubs. There were approximately one hundred and seventy-five registered delegates present. Mr. Hollingsworth spoke at
the Saturday morning meeting of the conference and was given enthusiastic attention. Such meetings as these give the Davidson men
an opportunity to be of real service to their fellow men and thus to the Master to whose service Davidson
is dedicated. Also last week, W. K. Pritchett performed a like service, occupying the pulpit of the Prospect Church, near
Mooresville, at the Sunday morning service. This is the third time in three months that Davidson students have...

National Hat Stores
If it is snap and style you want come in and look our line over.
Prices, $3.85 and $4.85
33 W. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

You've never seen checks like these by SOCIETY BRAND
They're a new idea. Checks of unusual shapes in every possible blend of rich...colorings—browns with tans, grays with browns, blues
with grays. Stripes of single thread running through for contrast. And all of them distinctive! They're to be had only
in Society Brand—nowhere else.
- Dobbs Hats
- Manhattan Shirts
Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

travels all over the South, from college to college, holding evangelistic meetings for the students. He has become universally popular
among college men, and we are indeed fortunate to have him with us.

C. E. T. C. MEETS

The Christian Endeavor Training Class held the installation of officers last Sunday. The new officers elected were P. J. Garrison,
president; W. T. Hill, vice-president; Reid Graham, secretary. Each of these officers gave interesting speeches.

These officers have started off their term with a vim and announced that a deputation would be held in Charlotte
on the third Sunday in April. About eight members will be taken, and they will spend the night there. Other
deputations are also being planned. The president announced the committees for the coming term. They are as follows:
- Program Committee—R. Kell, chairman; T. E. Hill.
- Deputation—J. T. McBride, chairman; W. E. Hill, W. T. Covington.
- Music—W. L. Hodgkin, chairman; Paul Fry.
- Lookout—W. T. Covington, chairman; L. K. Pritchett, R. G. Calhoun, R. Graham.
- Publicity—T. Price, chairman; E. P. Moye.

Oak Ridge

THERE are more ways than one of winning back a husband who loves to dance with anybody but his wife.
See how one modern spouse solved her marital tangles in this thrilling comedy-drama of marriage a la Charleston!

ROBERT Z. LEONARD’S production with CLAIRE WINDSOR and CONRAD NAGEL
Story by S. Jay Kaufman
Scenario by Frederica Sagor
Directed by ROBERT Z. LEONARD

Monday and Tuesday
ALHAMBRA
Charlotte

OAK RIDGE CADETS (Continued from page 1)

Bowman, p
Beaver, p

Totals 42 13 18 24 11

Davidson
Woodham, 1b
Kugler, ss
Vance, c
Alford, lf
Johnson, cf
Long, rf
Dulin, 3b
Kimbrough, 3b
Glenn, 2b
Harrison, 2b
Laird, p-rf
Huie, p
Hampton, p
*Black

Totals

*Black hit for Dulin in 7th.

Score by innings: R H E
Oak Ridge 330 210 310—13 18 1
Davidson 130 023 73x—19 12 4

Summary—Two-base hits: Benton, Vance (2); three-base hits: Dean; home runs: Alford (2), Laird, Woodham; sacrifice hits: Goodson, Johnson (O. R.),
Benton (2), Kugler, Vance, Kimbrough; stolen bases: Dean, Goodson, Woodham, Black, Glenn; struck out: by White 7, by Laird 3,
by Huie 2; base on balls: off White 5, off Bowman 4, off Beaver 4, off Laird 1, off Huie
1, off Hampton 1; hits: off White 8 with 9 runs in 6 innings (none out in 7th), off Bowman
3 with 7 runs in 1 inning, off Beaver 1 with 3 runs in 1 inning, off Laird 10 hits
with 9 runs in 5 innings; off Huie 6 hits with 3 runs in 2 innings (none out in 8th),
off Hampton 2 hits with 1 run in 2 innings; left on base: Oak Ridge 8, Davidson 4; hit by
pitched ball: by White, Glenn and Dulin; by Bowman, Kugler; passed balls: Benton (4); umpire: Barnes; time of game: 2:25.
