16 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

other persons. “Women in general choose to marry men who are their superiors; but for college women there are no
such men; hence they rarely marry. The case for men is almost the same, for men, as a class, choose
to marry women somewhat inferior to themselves; but as college men can find no such women, they not often marry.

Schools and courses of journalism are now established in more than 200 colleges and universities in the United States. A
large number of the leading institutions of the country such as Columbia and the University of Missouri, maintain regular journalism
schools, granting degrees in the profession of journalism.—Plainsman.

There has grown up on the Washington and Lee Campus a method of buying and selling which must be unique,
since it seems to awaken such amazement among the visitors. The “Co-op” store has regular counters piled with priced articles
where every customer pockets whatever articles he selects, makes his own change out of an open money box, and departs,
without the intervention or even the notice of a salesman. The day before a recent “great game” with the University
of Virginia some enterprising student placed hundreds of lapel buttons with the college colors on a table under a campus
tree, priced according to size, with an open box to afford change and hold the money. Before night the box
was so overflowing with bills that a passing professor placed a weight on them to keep the pile from blowing
away. Over 300 emblems were sold in this way without a salesman in sight, and before dark the pile of
bills and coins on the lonely table exceeded $125. At the same time the following were noticed in a walk
through the University buildings:

In the basement of the gymnasium was an immense box of bagged peanuts with an open box

A TELEGRAM FROM T. D. DUPUY FOR THE PRINCESS

Hufty” Watt is writing you at Davidson commencement Tuesday, June 1st. This is our 49th anniversary, and we want every
man present, whether you graduated or not. Mark the date and give yourself a real good time.

Phone 3486 Open Day and Night

THE PRINCESS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN

221 West Trade Street CHARLOTTE, N. C.

OH OSWALD!

A hard chap walked into a speakeasy out in Arkansas and asked what the bartender had to drink.

“We've got Scotch, rye and carbolic acid,” was the reply.

“Give me a slug of the acid,” he said. He gulped half a tumbler down without batting an eye.

“Gee, but you're hard,” ventured the bartender.

“Me? Hard? A gang of tough birds just drove three of us sissies out of Oklahoma.”

Lynch—“What a pretty hand!”

Her—“Yes, I sort of attached it myself.”

Ben Franklin says he wouldn’t die for his girl because he has undying love for her.

Stepping Right Out This Season

Spring suits in all the newest shades and fabrics

VICTORY CAFE THE PLACE OF GOOD EATS AND QUICK SERVICENear by, to hold the money. True, as the several diamonds
that have suddenly made their appearance on the stair landing of the largest dormitory.

THE VOGUE
301 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
THE SHOP FOR MEN
15 East Trade Street

Meanwhile, in one of the corridors of the Graham Dormitory, holding 116 students, might be found every night in the
lighted open hall a well-stocked “mid-night lunch” table, with money box and schedule of prices, but no visible salesman. It
was stated that the box generally held from three to five dollars by morning.

The above are but a few concrete examples of the honor system in operation. Perhaps other institutions may be even
more successful in realizing its full possibilities as a character builder. Amid the ebb and flow of incoming and outgoing
classes, these methods and customs illustrate the amazing dominance of the atmosphere and traditions of a college campus, which are
often more permanent than its buildings, and always more powerful than its faculty regulations.
—W. & L. Bulletin.

Money for Davidsonian Given by Student Store

The Davidsonian received during the week one hundred dollars from the Student Store to be used to buy equipment and
fit out the office in Gym Hall. Some equipment has already been purchased and other supplies are on the way.
The office of The Davidsonian is rather bare but some of the money received will go towards outfitting this place.

This donation is a climax of the drive The Davidsonian has made to get more and better equipment in order
that the paper might be worked up more easily and carefully. Heretofore the staff has been cramped by lack of
materials and this money will go far towards aiding the men in their work.

Up to this year, The Davidsonian has been made up in a room behind the Student Store but when the
new Chambers building was completed The Davidsonian received the old classroom of Dr. MacConnell in Shearer Hall in which to
do its work. With this new equipment, the staff will be more comfortable and the burden of their work will
be lightened considerably.

Professor Shull, of the University of Michigan, has discovered why college men and women marry less frequently.

You don’t read yesterday’s paper—you are too up-to-date for that. It’s the same way in the clothing business. When Spring
comes along you just must have a new suit tailored to fit by Schloss Bros., Styleplus, and Heuman-Thompson. $25 to
$45.

Belk Bros. Co.
AT CHARLOTTE

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
Capital, Surplus, Etc., over $1,200,000.00
