THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1926

THREE MEN ARE CHOSEN
(Continued from page 1)

That the military forces of the United States be combined into a department of National Defense with branches for the
army, navy, and air forces.” Although no college varsity debaters have signed up for the Presbyterian College of South Carolina-Davidson
forensic contest, to be held in Rock Hill, S. C., on the subject of the United States’ entry into the
World Court, it is assured that material will develop into worth-while representatives of Davidson on the forensic floor. The annual
triangle freshman debate between Davidson, North Carolina, and Wake Forest, has been announced for the first of May. The preliminary
for this contest is to be held the latter part of this month.

HEAD COLDS
Melt a little Vicks in a spoon and inhale the medicated vapors. Apply frequently up the nostrils. Always use freely
just before going to bed.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 37 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

NEW HANDY PACK
Fits hand, pocket, and purse
More for your money and the best Peppermint Chewing Sweet for any money
Look for Wrigley’s P. K. Handy Pack on your Dealer’s Counter

Fellows: You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, Davidson, N. C.

Kind Old Lady—"Sonny, did you find your dime?”
Kid—"No, but me brudder found it.”
Old Lady—"Then what are you still looking around for?”
Kid—"I'm lookin’ for me brudder now.”

A clothes line—the kind a woman slings at her husband when she wants a new dress.

WE WONDER
If the Hod Carriers’ Local No. 65 will ever become a national?

She—"My policy is to keep men at arm's length.”
He—"Better be careful; you know what happened to Venus de Milo.”

OUR DEFINITION
Of a grind—A student who refuses to go to a party the night before he has three reviews.

Cop—"What are you doing on this front porch at two o'clock in the morning?”
Copped—"I live here, officer. I lost my key and am waiting for the children to come home and let me
in.”

“You can never tell about a woman.”
“And if you could you shouldn't.”

AT THE DANCE
He—"I wish I had known the lights were going out; I would have kissed you.”
She—"Wasn’t that you who kissed me?”

“It was the old, old story,” sighed the pretty wife on the witness stand in a divorce court, “a horse
and a jackass can never agree.”
“Don't you call me a horse,” roared the husband as he shook off his attorney's restraining hand.

Alice—"Heard you were on a tight party last night.”
Slim—"I should say so—the wine flowed like mucilage.”

Irate Father—"Smoking, hey?”
Youthful Sinner—"No, sir, smoking tobacco.”

“Are you waiting for someone?”
“No, I just promised to meet a freshman here.”

“How much are you worth?”
“I'm worth $2,000 in New Mexico.”
“How's that?”
“The sheriff out there is offering it.”

A FAIRY TALE
The Scotchman was so tight he paid for the drinks.

“When did you get the funny valentine?”
“That's not a valentine; it’s my girl's picture.”

A man who waists his time cannot expect to stay in college.

Bob Miller—"Freshman, call a janitor.”
Jallard—"All right. You're a janitor.”

Here lies a salesman named Chipps,
Who married on one of his trips
a young widow named Block,
But he died of a shock
When he heard there were six little chips.

She—"Don’t you dare kiss me again!”
He (repeating)—"All right, I'll stop.”
She—"Don’t you dare kiss me again!”

Would-be Reformer—"You should cease drinking that terrible stuff, buddy. It'll eat holes in your stomach.”
Drunk—"Sallright. Holesh won't show when I’ve gotsh my shirt buttoned.”

A LA CO-ED
“What do you run the hundred in?”
“Gym bloomers and tennis shoes.”

“What kind of a dog is that of yours?”
“Police dog, I guess. He's always hanging around our cook.”

“Do you ever take souvenir spoons from hotels?”
“Not so as you could notice it.”

She—"Oh, Bob, that candy makes my mouth water!”
Mitchell—"Well, then go ahead and spit.”

Fair One—"How long will it be before your track team has rehearsal?”
Coach—"Just as soon as they get their costumes on.”

“Shay, Mishter, how hic-ish it to the stashion?”
Stranger—"About twenty minutes walk.”
Soused—"Hic, twenty minutes f'you, or f’me?”

“As our first number this evening, three chapel-cutters will sing that natty little ditty entitled ‘Show Me the Way To
Go Home,’ by A. Dean.”

She—"A penny for your thoughts.”
He—"I was thinking of going.”
Voice at head of stairs—"Give him two bits, daughter.”

“That boy had good stuff in him.”
“Yes, he's been drinking some of my $20 Scotch.”

Prof.—"Has anyone ever taken an opera glass; put the large lens to the eyes, and tried to walk a crack
in the floor?”Physics Stud—“No, sir, I’ve never been that drunk.”
Moon—“What have you got that scarecrow in your closet for?”
Shine—“To keep you birds out of my corn.”

“Just think, the material for that dress cost $30 a yard.”
“Say, now, that’s a nice dress for $20, isn’t it?”

It’s a great life if you don’t weaken, but a greater one if you weaken just a little bit.

—“Your leaving breaks my heart.”
He—“Yes, but if I stayed, you would have me completely broke.”

Lewis McColgan is so dumb that he thought a course in Pharmacy taught one how to plow!

Vaughn—“My girl calls me her bright light.”
Hudgins—“How come?”
Vaughn—“Her mother comes in and turns me down; her father comes in and turns me out.”

Him—“Let’s kiss and make up.”
Her—“I’ve already made up, and a kiss would spoil it.”

Silence may be golden, but we know lots of hush money that comes in checks.

IT HAPPENED IN THE BEST OF FAMILIES

In a recent letter, Col. F. Lancaster, of Nebraska, told how a Nebraska printer got an auction sale and a
wedding account mixed. The articles read like this:

“Married at the home of the bride’s parents, one mile north and two miles east of town, Miss Ethel Drinkwater,
by the Rev. John Jones, highly respected residents of the township. Thursday, January 27th. The bride was dressed in pale
blue and carried a bouquet of flowers. She was attended by four bridesmaids, dressed in tulle veils, sired by the
Noted Kentucky jack Romnina 3d. Also forty-six head of hogs including the groom’s father, from North Dakota, where he is
engaged in missionary work, and is immuned by double process. These shoats are thrifty, and all relatives of the bride
and groom. They all gathered in the spacious dining room after the ceremony, and partook of 30 bushels of oats,
1,444 bushels of corn, 10 large sacks of millet and alfalfa. The bride is the youngest daughter of one thrifty
incubator, capacity 600 eggs, and a trip to Omaha, after which they draw ten per cent interest from date. Free
lunch at noon for all.” —The Flat Hat.

“Reading a book” and “reading in a book!” What is the difference—or is there any? Does the one small word
“in” make any colossal difference as to the import of the two statements above or is it merely understood in
the first anyway and put in unnecessarily in the second?

The word does make a difference and having made such a statement, one must now prove its worth.

Suppose one made the remark that he saw someone “eating some candy.” The import of that is plain enough. But
suppose the little word “in” were put in. The result would hardly warrant consideration or contain any sense for that
matter (unless one were speaking of the houses of sugar plums and all sorts of sweets made famous by fairy
tale narration).

Again, suppose one said he saw someone “eating in a restaurant.” Again, the meaning is plain, but take out that
tiny word “in” and see what happens. So is the difference in the effect of the word in the two
above statements just as marked.

Thus we say, repeating the first, that “reading a book” means—taking it all in, devouring it, getting all the good
it can supply and hence gaining its full value. The second is merely gaining some advantage from the book, having
a background in which to find certain things and support certain ideas but full value is not realized or absorbed.
Absorbed—that’s the real idea. Lack of absorption has caused many a serious disaster in college life. Has it caused one
in yours? Few escape its toils. Seek, however, to shun its harm and sorrow and not be a “reader in,”
just one of many!

The others are fully as desirable—footwear for any requirement, any occasion, & reasonably priced. You are cordially invited to come
and look ’em over!

On Display by Mr. A. M. Shimmon
Sat. & Mon., Mar. 13 & 15
At the Students’ Store

JOHN N’s INCORPORATED — REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark and Philadelphia
Address for Mail Orders, 191 Hudson St, New York City

YOU’LL ALWAYS FIND A GOOD SHOW AT THE VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE, N.C. - - - WEEKLY PROGRAMME

Fri. and Sat., Mar. 12-13—Sally of the Sawdust, also two-reel comedy, King Cotton.
Mon. and Tues., 15-16—Single Wives, a First National picture; also Pathe news and comedy, Hold Everything.
Wed. and Thurs., 17-18—The Mystic, with Aleene Pringle, Lew Cody, Conway Tearle. Also comedy, Sweet and Pretty.
Coming, Mar. 24, 25, 26—Douglas Fairbanks in Don Q.

BASEBALL AND TRACK SEASON IS HERE
We have a full line of athletic supplies. Come down and get yours now
STUDENT’S STORE
“It’s Yours—Why Not Patronize It.”

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Candies
Toilet Articles, Kodaks
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY
DAVIDSON, N. C.
