THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1926

societies, the church, the press and all the present-day forces, in their efforts toward the Boyce Martin represented the annual, and H. M. Austin the magazine. W.E. Milton was Fellows: You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive It In making a report of the conference Ford at the right for convention as held at Washington and price at Lee we shall not attempt to give a review of the whole procedure, for this would be superfluous. The program gives all Henderson's Filling Station the details of the convention. However Davidson, N. C. it might be in order to state that all questions and problems were thoroughly taken up and discussed. At this time it would be well to explain just a word about how the convention PRINTING functions. First a program is prepared, certain colleges being assigned to present certain problems and conditions. When in need of first-class job These men are notified of their subjects, at least two weeks before the convention assembles, and are thus thoroughly prepared to present the assigned subject. After each talk has been made on the various subjects, the house is thrown open to discussion. At this time the delegates present their own personal problems at their respective institutions. If there is a school present that has worked out this particular problem successfully, the representative will present his solution. This takes up the greater part of the program, although there are a few talks by members of the faculty presenting different phases of college life.

printing of any description, see FRED SMITH 3 South Barracks QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

As we have said before we shall not attempt to go in detail into all the discussions, but rather we shall endeavor to bring out different ideas which were presented, which would be a help to Davidson. An immediate problem which we have here at Davidson is the problem of students passing bad checks. For this problem there seemed to be two very good solutions. First: at W. and L. there is a system which has proved very effective. It consists of the shipping of a man who has given three bad checks a year, unless the man is able to prove beyond a doubt that he gave the checks unintentionally. This implies that he wrote the check thinking he had sufficient funds to his credit in the bank. Just before the meetings of the Student Council, one of its members approached the different business firms, so that if there were any bad checks out at that time the council handles the case immediately. The other solution for this problem which has proved very effective was presented by the representative of the University of North Carolina. The council there works in conjunction with the bank, in that all bad checks are turned over immediately to the president of the student body. The president, or his representative, at once sends the man who wrote the check a form letter, in

IMPERIAL SPECIAL MIDNIGHT SHOW This Sunday Night May 9th PROGRAMME The Local Made Movie With a cast of Charlotteans, and “Yellow Fingers” A peppy South Sea Isle Romance which it is stated that unless the check is taken up at the end of forty-eight hours, he will be immediately suspended from school. This suspension to last until the end of the school year. The most feasible plan possibly would be to make a combination of the two, to work more effectively. NO ADVANCE IN PRICES

Another problem, of which there has been no little discussion at Davidson, is that of the managership of athletic teams due to the amount of fraternity politics in the selection of these managers. For instance, one fraternity has the president of the athletic association and also a manager or a captain of one or more of the athletic teams. Then immediately a junior manager of this sport, if he is a member of the same fraternity as the ones mentioned above, he will have two votes already in his favor as well as a good chance at the other three votes along with the other two managers. A solution for this problem was given by the representative of the University of Tennessee. At this institution any man can come out for the position of manager during his freshman and sophomore year. Then the manager is elevated by the lettermen on the varsity team of that respective sport, together with the coach, who has a two-fifths vote of all the lettermen. The manager automatically advances the following year, his duty as junior being the handling and overseeing all the freshman and sophomore managers. The duties during his senior year are exactly like the duties of the senior manager here. This plan has been put in operation and has been worked out successfully.

In closing we would like to say that it is quite impossible to bring out all the points discussed in the meetings, but we have endeavored to tell of those from which the students will derive the most benefit. Furthermore, we should like to endorse the southern federation of college students as being an organization

For that Feed For that Outing For that Party We call your attention to our grocery department. Fancy groceries a specialty M. H. Goodrum & Co. DAVIDSON, N. C.

Report of Davidson Delegates at Student’s Conference Given Old Cabinet Sends Out Its Final Deputations Delegations Sent Out to Prospect, Stony Point, Shiloh and New Salem

Last Sunday a deputation composed of the Ministerial Band quartet led the services at Prospect Church. At the morning service the quartet was heard and Don Stewart spoke to an appreciative audience. The members of the quartet are D. H. Stewart, P. J. Garrison, D. M. Calhoun and R. S. Lowrance. This was the fourth time this year that members of Davidson deputations have visited the Prospect Church, and at each time favorable results have come from the services.

The following other men were sent by the Y. M. C. A. to conduct services that day. C. G. Davis went to Stony Point, A. B. Williford to Shiloh Church. A. M. Hillhouse, secretary of the “Y” and R. D. Kauffelt held services at New Salem Church, Hillhouse preaching. W. K. Pritchett talked to the Young People’s Society of the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville. All of these talks were made at the morning services. The above deputations were the last sent out by the retiring cabinet. Under its administration 24 like deputations have been sent out during the year. In Concord Presbytery there are about 15 vacant pulpits to be filled each Sunday. Laymen of the different churches of the Presbytery help to meet this need, and the College Y. M. C. A. has been assisting the laymen of the Davidson Church in this work.

SETZER OF LENOIR-RHYNE (Continued from page 1) common mediator, one common judge.” He said that wars were the relic of the dark ages and condemned them as a means of securing peace. The establishment of a world capital, to which representatives may be sent by every nation, where people might work in harmony and in love, was urged. “Love is the way out and the way up,” he concluded.

Mr. O. L. Norment's subject was, “Youth's Appeal and the War Habit.” He said that war puts up what civilization puts down and that it puts down what civilization puts up; that war is not appealing to any person; and yet, that half the world’s history is that of war. “No school boy of any nation ever read where his nation ever fought an offensive war,” hestated. “Wars are not caused by youth and yet youth comes forward and does the fighting.” He bespoke the feeling for more international tolerance, for the abolition of racial prejudices and for world disarmament. “Disarmament,” he said, “may not bring continued peace, but it will lead to the education of the youth which will eventually give peace.”

“International Tranquility by Way of the Locarno Treaty” was very ably discussed by Mr. Linwood B. Hollowell. “The Locarno Treaty marks the definite termination of the war era, and,” he continued, “will introduce the obligation on the part of sovereign states to settle all disputes by peaceful methods.” He stated that war in western and central Europe is difficult because of Locarno. Mr. Hollowell said, “The moral leadership of the world has been transferred from the United States to Europe, having been swept away by blind materialism. The world now waits on the West.” “Versailles was the end of the war and Locarno the beginning of peace,” he concluded.

Mr. Byron A. Haworth, speaking on “America First,” said that the complete abandonment of economic imperialism and secret diplomacy was necessary to peace. “Nations must unite to bring themselves under the rein of just laws instead of rule by force,” he said. “No one agency can end war. There must be an international court; an international mind must be created; the Church can wield an enormous influence; and there must be a change in spirit and outlook in order to keep from leaving war as a heritage of future generations,” he said.

“The Task of Modern Society” was the theme chosen by Mr. J. H. Harrell and in his speech he spoke for the League of Nations. He mentioned the work of the peace from which all institutions represented may gain a great deal of helpful advice and information. “The duty of the United States is that of taking the forward step in bringing about world peace by canceling all war debts, in making a strong effort toward the establishment of a World Court of International Justice, and the use of all possible means in removing every obstacle in the way of peace,” he said.

Mr. A. H. Hollingsworth plead for the abolition of war and stated that America does not realize its part in the achievement of world peace, in his oration entitled “Peace—What Price?” He stated that we are guilty of national egotism; that we must bear in mind that the day of national conservatism has passed; and that we must cooperate to the extent of sacrifice. “Peace is available if we are willing to pay the price of love for humanity, a spirit of cooperation and sacrifice,” he concluded.

Taking as his subject, “A Little Child Shall Lead Them,” Mr. Roy Setzer said that principles of peace must be instilled in the minds of the children of today. “The ideal of the boy is not to outlaw war,” he stated, “but rather, it is surrounded with a halo of glory. We must hold up to the admiration of the youth those things that are conducive to peace and we should glorify the results of peace.” In concluding, he said that the ideals of Christ must be established in order that we may be led to international peace.

The next oratorical contest will be held at Lenoir-Rhyne in April of next year.

COLLEGE EDITORS REITERATE (Continued from page 1)

by Prof. Samuel Haworth, of Guilford College. After the address of welcome and the responses, E. G. Moore addressed the convention on “The Penalty of Freedom.” This address was in the form of a sequel to his address on freedom of the collegiate press made at the last convention. After the report of all the publications represented, the convention adjourned for lunch. At the afternoon meeting, the representatives of the three types of publications joined in three discussion groups. In these groups various problems were brought up, and the representatives gave their ideas as to the best methods of solving these problems. On Friday evening, a banquet was given the delegates at the Jefferson Standard club rooms, in Greensboro.

On Saturday morning the convention heard an address delivered by Dr. Raymond Binford, president of Guilford College. Then followed the discussion groups, at which the various types of publications chose the best in their class in the state. Then followed the election of officers and the selection of a place for the next meeting of the convention. Salem invited the association to be their guests at the fall meeting next year, and their invitation was accepted unanimously. The convention then adjourned.

Davidson was represented by five delegates at the convention. For The Davidsonian, V. S. Broyles and W. L. Lingle were sent. V. S. Broyles was vice-president of the association for the past year and officiated in this capacity. C. W. Williams and C. F. Smith were also present at the meetings. This was one of the largest delegations present at the convention. Some very important business matters were also brought up in the meetings and passed on by the convention. One of the most important of these matters was the changing of the voting for the best various publications in their various classes. Formerly the best publications were chosen by a composite vote of the entire convention, but this year the convention voted to have publications chosen by the other representatives of the same type of publication. This new method began at the last meeting and the best paper and magazine in the colleges of North Carolina were chosen in this manner.

The convention also voted to have a standard key to be presented to the editors and business managers of every publication that is a member of the association. The expense of this key to be borne by the individual publications or by the individual himself. A committee composed of Vernon Broyles as chairman, of Davidson; McPherson of the University of North Carolina, and Byron Haworth, of Guilford College, was appointed by the president to select a design for the key.

The annuals in their separate discussion group decided to have the vote for the best annual in the state deferred until the fall meeting at Salem College. The annuals also decided to send out a questionnaire to all the representatives of the annuals that would be present at the convention before they left for the meetings to obtain their opinions as to on what merits an annual should be judged.

A great deal of discussion was held in the meeting as to whether The Archive, the magazine of Duke University, should be eligible in the competition for the best magazine in the state. This was due to the fact that The Archive has inaugurated the custom of having material sent in from various people in the state not bona fide students at the university. It was finally decided that The Archive should be eligible for competition this year but next year the magazines would be divided into two groups, one for the magazines who permitted articles to appear in their magazines written by people not bona fide students at the school where the publication appears; the other class would be for the magazines contributed to exclusively by the students of the institution.

“Y” CONFERENCE (Continued from page 1)

including 15 or more from Davidson, were in attendance. The freshman tennis team, composed of Roddey, Bradley, Flowe, McGill, and James, has not had a great opportunity to show to what extent they are masters of the game, but have won several matches against high schools with ease.

Wholesale When You Need Candy See Us 26-28 S. College St CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Letter Heads Send them to Brady at Envelopes be printed right. Programs Tickets Statesville and they will Hollingsworth Nunn Visit Our New Fountain When in Charlotte Tryon Drug Co. Whitman Candies