THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1926

Pressing Business! Yes, that's us, but we have plenty of time to do yours and we clean and press 'em right. Buy a ticket and save the difference. Proprietors: Tex Tilson and Monk Mattox Representatives: Bohannon, Leggett, Woodham

Baltimore Y. M. C. A. and Naval Academy Defeated By Davidson Wrestlers Victories on Northern Trip

Davidson defeated the Baltimore Y. M. C. A. 18-13 last Friday night and continued its triumph over the Naval Academy team at Annapolis Friday night by a 12 to 9 score. The Navy team was part freshman and part varsity substitutes. Every Davidson wrestler except Davis won one or more of the bouts entered on the trip, while Captain Cox won two decisions on time and Joe Frierson won by a fall in six minutes and from Navy's best man on a time decision. The following is from the Baltimore American of the match in that city:

Following seven spirited matches, the sturdy matmen of the Y. M. C. A. bowed to Davidson College of Davidson, N.C., 18 points to 13, in the Central gym last night. Four verdicts went to the clever invaders, who presented a shifty, well-coached team.

Cox Speedy Matman
Probably the whirl between Cox, Davidson, and Georgie Erickson of the "Y," in the 145-pound class, developed the most interesting grappling of the program. With little between them, the pair went after each other with a vengeance and the judges were unable to reach a decision at the expiration of the regulation time limit. In the extra period, Cox was the aggressor and was declared triumphant on a time advantage of 2 minutes and 37 seconds.

Dr. LLOYD DEFEATED
Short and sweet was the heavyweight bout.

SPORTOGRAPHS By Ernest Milton
The crack of the bat in the first baseball game in North Carolina will sound this afternoon, and it will incidentally open the season for the Wildcats and the season in North Carolina college circles. Uncle Sam's marines are visiting us today, and we are hoping that we are not entertaining them on a diamond of snow. Several of the Wildcats have had the experience of cavorting upon a snow-bedecked diamond, but we don't imagine it is a warm feeling.

We haven't as good an outlook this year as we did last. But that doesn’t keep us from winning a few more games than the past season. He proves conclusively, too, that he had better material last year. Well, it means that he is going to work a little bit harder than ever on what he does have. Monk Younger says that we as well.

Three cheers for the wrestling team! They have ended a season covered with glory. Only one match lost, and that by a close score after a gruesome seven-match contest. Defeating the Navy Plebes, reinforced by extraordinarily strong men from the Midshipmen varsity, speaks well for the men and for the fight that they have exhibited this season. How we wish we had a match with Carolina. Then the Tar Heels might not be able to claim the championship. If they beat us, we'd accept defeat manfully, but we don’t accept their claim to the state championship considering the arrangement of schedules this year. We did have a match with Duke, but it was cancelled by the Methodists. That would have afforded a splendid basis of comparison.

Wildcat Baseball Team Plays Quantico Marines In First Game of Year
Few Letter Men and Many New Faces to Be Seen in Action

The beginning of baseball in North Carolina colleges will be marked this afternoon when the Wildcat nine meets the United States Naval Marines from Quantico, Va. The first game this year is almost ten days in advance of the regular schedule and the moulding of the team has been somewhat hampered by the inclement weather that has been prevalent this spring. Also, a number of the regular squad are football men and were in spring training for that sport when the first call for the baseball candidates was sounded.

There will be a number of new faces in the lineup this afternoon due to the large number of letter men that graduated last year. Practically a new infield will be presented, Abe Kugler and Kelly Woodham being the only letter men returning to cover the sacks. Woodham has been shifted to the outfield. Dulin and Johnny Kugler have been covering third base and short, while Captain Frank Alford has been brought in from the outfield to hold down the initial bag, with Abe Kugler going to the keystone sack. The backstop for this afternoon is also in doubt, the vacancy left by Sim Wrenn last year still being fought for by many. Wick Black, McGeachy, Laws, and Captain Alford have all been used by Coach Monk in an attempt to find a man to fill this position. Flake Laird is still the standby in the hurling department, with Oden, also a letter man from last year, assisting him. Huie and Maulden have also been showing up well.Well in practice, as have Hampton, Sappenfield, and Long. (Continued on page 3)

Red Hot

It was a dab iui affair, but it was full of thrills while it lasted. The melee of big fellows brought about the defeat of Dr. O. S. Lloyd, well-known local trap expert and all-around sportsman, who succumbed to Vance by a bar and chancery in 1 minute and 50 seconds. The summary:

115-Pound Class — Frierson, Davidson, defeated Kramer with head and arm-lock in 6 minutes.
125-Pound Class — Bob Bitosea, Y. M. C. A., defeated Barrington by decision.
135-Pound Class — Johnny Erickson, Y. M. C. A., defeated Davis with bar and chancery in 4 minutes and 15 seconds.
145-Pound Class — Cox, Davidson, defeated George Erickson by time advantage of 2 minutes.
158-Pound Class — Van Sandt, Y. M. C. A., defeated Estridge in 8 minutes 35 seconds with wrist-lock side chancery.
175-Pound Class — Brinkley, defeated Bill Edwards with cross-body hold in 8 seconds.
Heavyweight Class — Vance, Davidson, defeated Dr. O. S. Lloyd in 1 minute 50 seconds with bar and chancery.

Davidson College grapplers won by 12 to 9 against a strong team made up of Naval Academy Plebes, or first-year men, with reinforcements from the reserves of the varsity squad. Among the varsity wrestlers was Wickhorst, the big and powerful tackle of the football team who has been named as captain for next year. He outweighed Vance, who opposed him in the unlimited, and kept the advantage most of the time and won a decision with a time advantage of three minutes and twenty seconds. (Continued on page 6)

The golfers are going to have a professional visit them on March 22nd, give a lecture and a demonstration. Fine! We're glad to know that the men of this sport are going to have a chance to listen to this man, who will probably give them some good pointers.

It's almost time for the election of the Best Athlete in school for the Norris Athletic Trophy award. This means the best all-round athlete. You can start now thinking about who deserves this award. It is a beautiful loving cup—one to be proud of.

The Freshman class received a workout Monday afternoon and several other afternoons this week—putting up bleachers. Maybe this is one way to find a few athletes in the class of 1929.

Monk and Tex, as they are generally known among the boys, have been here for three years now, and their work reached its zenith this past season. You can’t expect too much next year, especially when so many good men will be lacking.

No matter what the outcome of a game might be, we'd never be disappointed at all in the Davidson Wildcats. A heritage is passed on year from year, which has been coming down through the generations, and which we hope will be perpetual. Every time you meet a strange lad on the campus, don't ever fail to speak. It might surprise you to know that this has brought several good men to Davidson—simply because of the spirit of friendliness on the campus. We make them feel at home, some of them say, and that appeals to a man who maybe is leaving home for the first time for any length of time.

Two games will be won by the football team next year, says Monk Younger, with possibly a third victory. He feels as if we will win from Elon and Guilford and says we might nose out Wofford. That’s Monk Younger, you know. There is some cause for what he says, when tackles and guards are so woefully lacking. We accept Coach Monk’s prediction with reservations, for the student body, we believe, has faith enough in Davidson coaches and will back the team sufficiently to assure Davidson more than two victories.

THE GRIDIRON A COLLEGE MODEL $8.00 Collegiate from toe to heel. In the popular extra wide balloon toe; built to stand a lot of rough treatment—yet is comfortable from start to finish. Made of very flexible Scotch and pin grain leathers—in new tan shades. Storm welt and stitched heel seat—a smart oxford for hard spring wear.

The Tate-Brown Co. 38-40 So. Tryon Street CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CHARLOTTE SMART STYLED CLOTHES FOR COLLEGE MEN SOLD EXCLUSIVELY BY MELLON’S

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED MORALLY CONDUCTED “FRED’S” RECREATION HALL BILLIARDS 205 West Trade Street (upstairs) Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING Charlotte, N. C.

YOUR BARBER SHOP When in Statesville and you require those finishing touches, drop in THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP Statesville, N. C. 127 West Broad Street and let us do the work.

AUSTIN’S CANDY SHOP STATESVILLE, N. C When you come up for those spring dances bring her in