THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4, 1926

COLLEGE COMMENT IN THE WORLD’S GREAT PAPERS

“College and the Collegian” By the Christian Science Monitor (Boston)

The words “college” and “collegian” have recently gained in certain forms of the literature of the day—in daily newspapers, in
comic magazines, and in current slang—a significance that is deplored by college faculties, by the more earnest students, and by
the growing portion of the public which appreciates the value of higher education. It is unfortunate that too many people
associate “college” only with baggy trousers, flashy neckties, grotesque hats, and other eccentricities of dress and manner, which a certain
number of students affect just now. If one looks below the surface, however, it is possible to see indications that
the manifestations which have given the words in question their present-day meaning are not characteristic of the majority of young
collegians and should not be allowed to prejudice the public against institutions of learning.

Without doubt, a wave of exaggeration and extremeness is evident among college boys and girls at present. But this tendency
in dress and conduct is by no means confined to them. It is noticeable in society at large. The great
mass of men and women, however, go about their daily tasks and enjoyments in quite normal fashion, slightly, if at
all, touched or influenced except in their sense of humor by the extravagant eccentricities of the flamboyant minority. The same
condition exists in the colleges. The enormous increase in college attendance is not caused by a rush of youth who
hope to wear strange clothes or indulge in queer conduct. An overwhelming majority of the throngs of youth that are
swelling the numbers at American colleges are after education, the training of their best and highest talents.

From the Mississippi Agricultural and Mechanical College comes an official report that a great decrease in physical defects has been
noted in examinations extended over the last decade. At a recent hearing before trustees of Ohio State University, the witnesses
agreed that the student body at the university has improved morally year by year and is now at its highest
point. It was declared that the students are “continually, progressively, and constructively at work in dealing with their own problems.”

Testimony of captains of industry and finance is significant on the point in question, that leaders in business have been
seeking out college men for several years with increasing intensity as the best material for future managers and executives. That
they find more than baggy trousers and moaning saxophones on college campuses is shown by the fact that they are
contributing thousands of dollars annually to middle western colleges and universities for specialized work in research laboratories. An asphalt company
helps toward the study of asphalt materials. A chemical manufacturer gives financial aid for study in commercial chemistry. One big
producer of railroad equipment maintains twenty scholarships for specialized training in agriculture. Scholarships and fellowships of this kind at the
University of Wisconsin amount annually to $21,762, at the University of Minnesota to more than $25,000. For the study of
meat packing processes at the University of Chicago, a gift of $2,500 a year for three years has been made.
At the University of Illinois, 35 of these scholarships covering a wide variety of subjects are provided. At other institutions,
subjects thus encouraged include fire insurance, merchandising, advertising, textile manufacture, mining, and animal industry.

When the practical leaders of business, industry, and finance give to “college” and “collegian” the significance implied by these concrete
acts, the general public can afford to do likewise and to forget the temporary, superficial meaning emphasized by the thoughtless
and the frivolous.

Mrs. E. J. Erwin presented a paper on “James Barrie,” and Mrs. A. Currie one on “Oxford’s Poets.” Mrs. H.
B. Arbuckle entertained Friday in honor of Mrs. A. L. Currie, of Louisville.

Nick Sappenfield Returns to School.

Nick Sappenfield, former president of the student body, who was seriously injured in the first football game of the past
season, and who has been recuperating at his home in Concord, has returned to Davidson for the second semester. Nick,
although not graduating this year, will no doubt by his return lighten his work for next year. His return was
accompanied by a rise in the 1926 gridiron stock, for by entering school again at this time Nick will be
eligible to be in harness again next year, and thus one of the smoothest working cogs in the backfield is
assured. His injury at the first of last fall was a great handicap to the team, and his return makes
our backfield prospects for next year the brightest in years. His classmates regret very much that Nick will not graduate
with them in June, but are glad that he will be with them the rest of this year. Nick has
a big place on the campus and his welcome back is hearty and universal.

SENIOR CLASS PLANS FOR COMMENCEMENT

The opening of the second semester finds the members of the various Senior class committees intently working for the completion
of the plans for Commencement. Speakers are being considered for the Baccalaureate Sermon and for the annual Y. M. C.
A. address. A very beautiful design has been submitted and approved as the cover for the Senior Class Day exercises.
Attention is also being given to the class mascot selection and to the obtaining of caps and gowns. The Senior
Oratorical contest which comes at that time gives promise of being of extraordinary merit. The preliminaries come on the 9th
of this month and several of the forensic artists have signified their intention of entering the contest. The class of
'26 is fortunate in having so large a number of men who are interested in this line of work. There
are five varsity debaters and the six Junior orators of last year, while several of the latter are debaters of
ability. It is hoped that the plans will soon have been completed and that the efforts of the class can
be turned to carrying them into effect.

CORRECTION!

It has often been said that fill up space. The true explanation of how Fat Laws acquired an automobile will
now be given. The greatest error in the last article seems to have been the statement that Mr. Laws won
the car from his father’s store. This was far from the facts. The true story is this: Mr. Laws had
occasion to purchase a suit of clothes from a certain haberdashery in no way connected with his family. This haberdashery,
in lieu of a method of advertisement, had offered a chance on a beautiful Buick sedan to any and all
customers for each dollar of the price of their purchase. Mr. Laws received 55 such chances. And in a most
honest manner, the chance which won the automobile was one of these 55. Mr. Laws wasinvolved in no hoax, scandal,
or embezzlement, and this publication wishes to retract any erroneous statements which may have been made concerning the acquisition of
the car. It also wishes to beg Mr. Laws’ pardon if in any way his name was scandalized on account
of the former article.

HUNT, ’25, DIES
(Continued from page 1)

“Popsy” had been ill only a week when the cold, grim hand of the reaper reached out for him. While
his illness was known to be severe, it was not until that morning that a grave turn occurred. His death
was a distinct shock to the entire community, as well as to the numerous students who knew him and loved
him at Davidson. Funeral services were held at his home church in Lexington Sunday afternoon, January 24th, at 3:00 p.m.
Five Davidson students attended the services. These were E. K. Regen, A. M. Hillhouse, M. C. Carroll, H. B. Arbuckle,
Jr., and T. T. Jones.

While at Davidson “Popsy” was a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, the Davidson varsity football team, and the
“D” club. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Hunt, Jr., and one brother, Nat, senior
at the Lexington High School and captain of the football team last fall.

CALENDAR FOR THE WEEK

Thursday, Feb. 4—Phi and Eu Literary Society meetings, 6:30 p.m. D. C. Fresh vs. Duke Fresh, 8:00 p.m. Metro and
Pan Literary Societies, 9:30 p.m.

Friday, Feb. 5—D. C. Wrestling Team vs. Concord “Y,” 7:15 p.m. Glee Club Concert, 8:00 p.m.

Saturday, Feb. 6—Basketball—Davidson vs. Guilford, 7:30 p.m. Picture Show—"Classmates,” 9:00 p.m.

Sunday, Feb. 7—C. E. Training Class, 1:15 p.m. Ministerial Band, 2:30 p.m. “Y" Vespers, Mr. J. Stitt Wilson, 6:15 p.m.

Monday, Feb. 8—Court of Control, 7:15 p.m.

Tuesday, Feb. 9—Oratorical Contest, 8:00 p.m.

Wednesday, Feb. 10—Prayer Meeting, 7:30 p.m.

Newspapers print mistakes so that they may correct the errors the next day and have something to reiterate. It has
been common knowledge. Reiterating statements previously made through this column: We are not in favor of athletics and athletics alone,
but do contend for good students and athletes in the same combination. That is possible. Look at our varsity for
proof of that. Not all of them, to be sure.

Parks Brown was carried to Statesville Sunday for an operation for appendicitis. In spite of complications that gave promise of
developing into something serious, he is doing well.

DAVIDSON CAGERS SWAMP CONCORD 48-15 IN FIRST GAME AFTER EXAM PERIOD
Anderson Runs Wild by Scoring 17 Points While Laird Makes Twelve
(Special to Davidsonian)

Concord, N. C., Feb. 6—Davidson College defeated the Concord “Y” team here last night 48-15 instead of 30-15 as reported
in the morning newspapers. The Wildcats were leading Concord 30-16 at the close of the first half. With Anderson, shifty
Davidson guard, scoring 17 points and Laird accounting for 12 more, the Davidson team ran away with the game with
apparent ease. In the second period, Vick scored two neat shots for Concord and a couple more field goals were
made, though Davidson was way out in the lead.

The line-up and summary:
Davidson (48) Concord (15)
Laird (C) 12 ----.- LI Easeley 4
Wilson 1 -.- -- Denny
Anderson 17 .--.- RG <-.-#-.... Harris 5
Harrison 6 ----.- LG ----.- Fink

Substitutions: For Davidson—Hudgins for Wilson, Goodykontz for Huie, Huie for Goodykontz, Goodykontz for Hudgins, Simpson for Harrison. For Concord—none.

BOOKS WORTH READING

“The Man Nobody Knows”—Bruce Barton. A fresh interpretation of the life of Jesus emphasizing the manhood of the Master as
seen by His disciples. A discovery of certain characteristics of Jesus so often unemphasized, presenting a Christ far more magnetic
than the Christ depicted in art.

“Towards the Understanding of Jesus”—Vladimir Simkhovitch. An historic background of the turbulent times in which Christ lived, showing Christ’s reactions
to the political views of His day.

“Rome's Fall Reconsidered”—Vladimir Simkhovitch. A short essay in the volume entitled “Towards the Understanding of Jesus.” An attempt to prove
that a lack of rotation of crops was the direct cause of the fall of Rome.

“Hay and History”—Vladimir Simkhovitch. Another short essay in the volume entitled “Towards the Understanding of Jesus.” A unique array of
facts to prove that the greatest economic revolution of all ages was the introduction of soil regeneration by the planting
of hays and other legumes.

“The Young Man From Jerusalem”—Ballantine. A summary of the essentials of religion and of Christ's principles into three points and
four.

“The Lord We Love”—Dr. Charles Erdman. An inspirational study of certain events in the life of Christ and the principles
taught.

The General Electric Company, as of December 3, 1924, had 37,716 stockholders, of whom 45 percent were women. The average
number of common shares held by stockholders was 55. In ownership, policies, past and present activities, G-E is unselfishly dedicated
to the cause of electrical progress. A new series of G-E advertisements showing what electricity is doing in many fields
will be sent on request. Ask for booklet GEK-1.

GENERAL ELECTRIC

This giant hydro-electric unit weighs 750 tons and consists of a vertical shaft hydraulic turbine attached to an electric generator
delivering 52,000 kilowatts.

Bigger Generators—Cheaper Electricity

A 70,000 horsepower hydro-electric unit recently installed at Niagara Falls utilizes the same amount of water as seven former 5,000-horsepower
units, yet does the work of fourteen such units. And it saves 700,000 tons of coal yearly for the nation.

As more and still more uses are found for electricity, larger and more economical generators are installed. At the power
plant, as well as at the consumer’s end, important changes and startling developments have steadily reduced the cost of electricity
for light, power, and heat. And wherever electricity has blazed its trail—in towns, cities, industrial centers, and rural communities—comfort and
progress have come to stay.

Generating and distributing electricity concern the technical student. But electricity’s application in the betterment of industry, the professions, and home
life concerns every educated person. Cheap electricity means many startling achievements today, but countless and unbelievable possibilities tomorrow.
