THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 16, 1926

You be the judge, and jury, too. Cross-examine any of our young men’s suits. Feel the fineness of the rich fabrics. Inspect the tailoring. Note the smart, collegiate styles. Then—after you have done all this—take a squint at the price ticket. You'll be astonished at the moderate cost of such fine quality.

MELLON’S

Note to Fraternities: We bought specially for you a big bunch of “Spank-Um Sticks.” They’re yours for the asking—come and get ’em.

THE STUDENTS STORE is yours, too. Without your loyalty and support it would be unable to serve you at its best. “It’s Yours, Why Not Patronize It?”

STUDENTS

NOTED SPEAKERS CHOSEN TO CONDUCT SUNDAY SERVICES

The speakers on the “Y” program in the near future for the vesper services are men who are keenly interested in Davidson and students. On the 19th of September, the speaker will be Dr. Albert Sydney Johnson, of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. This speaker is known to many Davidson students as he has appeared in the services in the past. On the following Sunday evening Dr. Oren Moore, a prominent Davidson alumnus and also of Charlotte, will conduct the service. Dr. Moore was a star on the football team during his stay at Davidson and always brings a stirring message. Dr. Pressley, of Statesville, will be the speaker on the 3rd of October. Dr. Pressley is a new speaker to many, but is known as a very forceful and inspiring speaker to those who have heard him. The 10th of October is being held open for a special program, the nature of which will be announced later. The 17th of October brings to Davidson one of her loyal alumni, Rev. Mr. Woods, of the Salisbury Presbyterian Church. Mr. Woods is a brother of Bill Woods and has appeared at Davidson many times. One of the most popular men ever to address the student body at Davidson, Mr. Tom Glasgow, of Charlotte, will be the speaker for the 24th of October. Mr. Glasgow is an alumnus of William and Mary, but an ardent admirer and friend of Davidson.

The annual Y. M. C. A. fall meeting will be conducted by Dr. Ben R. Lacey, of the class of 1906. Dr. Lacey has recently been elected president of Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va. He has already won the student body by the sermon he delivered last Sunday. The tentative date is November 7th to 10th. The “Y” is planning with its new office, club room, and added cabinet, to be of more benefit to the students than in the past years. The club room will be open day and night for the convenience of the students. The various departments of the “Y” work will begin this week and from time to time will issue statements helpful to students. Especially along the line of Student Self-help and Student Employment is the “Y” hoping to be of aid to students.

LOYALTY

Loyalty is the basis of school spirit. It’s the loyalty of the whole student body that puts the Wildcats on the field and keeps them fighting. Without this loyalty they would fail.

Milton and Appleby to Direct Publicity and “Y”

Milton Chosen Alumni Secretary and Publicity Director—Appleby is “Y” Secretary

A new office in the administrative staff of the college has been created through the appointment of Ernest Milton as alumni secretary. Milton will also act as publicity manager and keep the larger newspapers in touch with happenings at Davidson. Milton has established his office in one of the rooms in Elm Row which was formerly occupied by the Kappa Alpha Fraternity. Milton is a graduate of Davidson, having received his diploma with the class of 1926. While a student at Davidson he was one of the leaders in journalistic work, having been manager of the editorial staff of The Davidsonian for two years. He was also a member of the Theta Upsilon Omega Fraternity.

Jim Appleby, also a member of the class of 1926, is to be Y. M. C. A. secretary for the coming year, succeeding Albert Hillhouse in this position. He was a campus leader during his four years at Davidson, having been a member of the Student Council and a candidate for the presidency of the student body. He was also a member of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet and one of its most prominent leaders. He was also a member of the Theta Upsilon Omega Fraternity.

In announcing his plans for the coming year...Appleby states that he will not vary greatly from the program carried out in former years but will endeavor to carry this program out in a better way than it has been done in past years.

Numerous Stars Trying For Wildkitten Places
All-State Men and High School Captains Work With Mattox

Four captains, two all-state high school students, one all-state prep school football man, and one freshman who received honorable mention for all-state are working with Monk Mattox, coach of the Davidson Wildkittens, trying for positions on the 1926 freshman team of Davidson.

The captains are E. K. B. Kugler, of Washington High School; T. W. Brohard, Stony Brook prep school, Long Island, N. Y.; J. B. Matthews, of the Trainer High School, of Rock Hill, S. C.; and Nat Hunt, of Lexington High School, the latter being a brother of the late “Popsy” Hunt, noted drop-kicker of several seasons ago on the Wildcat varsity.

Doc Carson and Henderson, both members of the championship team of Gastonia High School of last year, will be the freshmen. At present, they are ill at Gastonia but will report at Davidson in a week's time. A. B. Goodman, of Lenoir High School, received honorable mention as an all-state man last year. The prep school all-state student is Hodgin, of Greensboro, who attended the Kentucky Military Institute, and is a brother of “Small” Hodgin, a stellar football player on the Davidson varsity three years ago.

Absence of Black Dims Team’s Hopes

Wildcat hopes for a 1926 state football championship received a rather severe jolt when it was announced last week that Wick Black, varsity back for three years and captain of last year’s eleven, is suffering from pneumonia. This announcement of Black's condition came as a shock to the student body who had hoped the ex-captain would be seen back in harness. At the last report, Wick was getting along very well and his doctors said there was a possibility of his playing in the last two games of the season, but Wildcat backers are not pinning too much faith on this announcement.

This year would have been Black's fourth as a varsity player, and he is the oldest Wildcat player in regard to experience. This veteran's place will be hard to fill capably, although there are many promising aspirants. Men who can smash a line on the offense and back it up on the defense as Black did are few and far between. Black came to Davidson straight from Davidson High School and ever since his face has been a familiar one to sports followers throughout the state. He has always been dependable and led last season’s team through a most successful season. Yes, Black will be missed and Wildcat fans are wishing him a speedy recovery and that he may be able to get into the Carolina and Duke games and wind up his already splendid athletic career at Davidson in a blaze of glory.

Fresh (viewing College Professor)—"He sure had a big gap in his razor when he shaved his chin.”

Four-mile belt conveyor—the longest in the world—installed in a Pennsylvania mine for transporting coal from mines to river barges. Electric motors operate this conveyor.

90,000 Wheelbarrows in one hand

A button is pressed. An electric motor goes to work, followed by another and still others until twenty sections of a belt conveyor four miles long are in operation! Through an abandoned mine runs this giant wheelbarrow carrying nine thousand tons of coal per day in a steady stream from the miners to the coal barges on the Monongahela River. One man controls it with no more effort or concern than pressing a switch button. Electricity pushes it.

Not only conveyor belts of all sizes, shapes, and kinds, but also hoists, tractors, cranes, elevators, stackers, locomotives, and other material-handling equipment have gained flexibility, dependability, and ease of control through electric motorization.

The General Electric Company has devoted years of study to material-handling and transportation problems. In its own vast plants, the handling and moving of materials and products have been simplified to the highest degree, thus providing a daily demonstration of the value of electricity.

A series of G-E advertisements showing what electricity is doing in many fields will be sent on request. Ask for booklet GFK-1.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY,
SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK