4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 11, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina College Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH................. Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE.......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. BRANCH............................. Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON.................. Assistant Managing Editor
F. K. BELL....................... Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON.......................... Athletic Editor
R. B. KE............................. Associate Editor
A. Y. ROWE.......................... Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH.................. Associate Editor
R. McMILLAN.......................... Humorous Editor
........................................ Alumni Editor
........................................ Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
H. S. WITHERSPOON.................... Business Manager
.................................. Assistant Business Manager
.................................. Assistant Business Manager
.................................. Assistant Business Manager
.................................. Circulation Manager
.................................. Subscription Manager
E. L. DOUGLASS.................. Assistant Subscription Manager
JULIAN LAKE..................... Service Department
M. P. CRAWFORD.................. Assistant Service Department

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
T. T. JONES
V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres.
W. L. LINGLE
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas.
B. MARTIN
W. H. ALLISON
R. H. McILWAINE
H. M. AUSTIN
J. P. McKNIGHT
C. L. BRAGAW
A. M. SPARROW
D. M. CALHOUN
J. G. WHARTON
W. T. COVINGTON
R. WILSON
W. T. DAVIS
C. WITHERS
W. S. GORDON
W. S. WOOD
JOHN GWIN

EDITORIAL

Have a heart on St. Valentine’s Day!

We've always believed in Mr. Groundhog until this year, but he’s done us wrong.

Between now and those next exams there is nothing to worry about except studies, baseball, track, Junior Speaking girls, graduating,
and studies.

Have you bought a little valentine to send to your mother? She will appreciate it and love you more for
it than any girl you know. Try it.

The old-fashioned boy that used to go back to the farm to pay off the mortgage, now goes back to
teach Grandpa the Charleston.

Certain students—in fact all of us—have sorely missed the various and sundry girls’ glee clubs that were wont to come
to our college. There were several last year but as for this, we haven’t heard a feminine squeak. We like
opera just grand, but for real singing, give us a chorus of Southern beauties with liquid voices that get right
down to the bottom of a fellow’s being.

Felix, the wildcat, has been suffering lately from an attack of melancholia. As Bret Harte said, he will rise to
explain. He is not a he, but a she. Charlie, valet de luxe, of our ferocious, fighting feline, apprised us
of this momentous fact soon after we blared forth her name as Felix. Thoughtlessness on our part, of course. So,
in order to rectify all past mistakes, we hereby rechristen the cat Felicia and we hope that the young lady
will not hold us guilty. Fair Felicia, the fawn-like feline from far-off Florida.

HIGHER GRADES

A kind friend of The Davidsonian has called our attention to a statement made in last week’s issue relative to
the high grades that have been recently made by certain members of the Senior class.

Although the high grades made are creditable and the friends of the men rejoice in their scholarship and industry, it
is but fair to members of former classes to mention some of the records made in years gone by. No
records have been made either this year or last.

In a fairly recent class, five men made an average throughout their Senior year of 98.83, and three of them
made a four-year average of 98.95. The record likely to stand, however, is held by the class of 1869, in
which twelve men made a four-year record of 97.31.

This statement is not made with any idea of detracting from the richly-deserved merit of the Seniors of this year,
but only in justice to those of other years. High scholarship has been one of Davidson’s traditions, and extremely high
grades have not been infrequent.

A VALENTINE

It was a little fairy heart of frilled lace and silvery sheen that started our thoughts winging back to a
certain Valentine day years ago when we received one of those innocent expressions of young love. Shining through the big
plate glass window, it looked for all the world like one that once held the handwriting of a little girl
who wore long black curls, and who affixed our name with a slight tremor beneath the gingham dress.

Who dares say that they were not the days of real sport? The world seemed even twice as large and
fair as it does today. The times when we played free as a Spring lamb beneath budding trees; when the
birds sang sweeter and the earth was tremulous to one’s footsteps. How delightful it was to loll alongside the creek
that skirted the clover pasture, and where fishing was a pleasure. There was the little curly-haired girl that caused so
much boyish heart-ache, although a young mind failed to discern the reason. Her voice was like the sound of faint
music, to be treasured in one’s memory.

It is said that one begins to get old, when he dreams of and longs for the times that have
passed. But to us, such a state of mind seems more to partake of the satisfaction of the present. Only
those who are so absorbed in the business of the future and are so intent on securing a portion of
this world’s goods refuse to allow themselves the privilege of letting the mind rove back to younger days when all
things were beautiful. It is no sign of weakness nor of sentimentality. Men who have become great, as this world
counts greatness, think of their childhood days in terms of their present development. They treasure the memories that pass before
them as they think of the happy years when the world was young and love was all. Only narrow minds
that look only straight ahead, think such is foolish. And men who have been called foolish by those around them,
have accomplished worthy things in this world.

And thus, such a stream of talk arising from a single little valentine that glistened in the sun from a
show window.

PRACTICAL CHRISTIANITY

Out of all the stirring words that we heard issue from the lips of Mr. Wilson who was here last
week, not any impressed us more than those simple ones which told that real Christianity is not to be found
in a set of ideals, however high they may be, but in a service to humanity that transcends all dogmas
and teachings.

There is such a thing as idealism without practical results from the application of the lesson learned. And there is
the simple, steadfast trust in a higher power and a devotion to one’s fellow men that makes a life radiate
happiness and joy. Too many religions have stressed the outward form and pomp of embellished ceremony. They glossed over inconsistencies
with dogmas and isms that sounded well but were rarely lived out.

If no futile efforts of ours can in one way help God, then it is only by service to our
fellow human beings that we can recompense the Power who gave us life and being. The command of Christ to
“go and do thou likewise,” contains the essence of what we call Christianity. We are not fooled by those who
observe the outward forms and look not into the inner self. It is worthwhile for Davidson men to have the
opportunity to hear a man like Mr. Wilson, and we hope that he will soon come again.

AN OPEN MIND

An article in the January number of Harper’s lamented the fact that the people of the United States were literally
like children in most of their habits of living. At first this seemed preposterous and even humorous, but the author
clinches his statements with facts that no one can deny. He says that we show our childishness in everything that
we do. Our following after fashion’s beck and call is merely an attempt to outdo another, not purely a means
of self-gratification in the method of clothing one’s self. We dress alike and fear to be different for the same
reason that the child fears to be pointed out by his playmates as being dressed different from the rest. Our
changing fads and fancies are like the toys and baubles that a child picks up with delight and soon wearies
of. Our peevishness at things of no consequence and our disregard of things worth while are even as the child’s.

But it is with the fact of narrow-mindedness that we are most concerned. A child who has reached the gang
age of development...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

hoots and jeers with the rest of the crowd. He can see only that little side pointed out to him
by his fellows. So it is with us. Bombastic as the author’s charges may be, we cannot deny that we
close our minds to evident truths when we care not to seek the light. We follow superstitions and cling to
phobias with a determination that marks not our attention to progress. Our vision is narrowed by what other people think,
or what we think they will think of us. We decry radicalism and down it without trying to see whether
or not it contains some germ of truth. Our religion is biased, and our education is limited because we do
not have open and receptive minds. Perhaps one could have no greater gift as far as this world’s goods are
concerned, than to have a mind that is open to the truth, and one that sees the other side of
a question as well as his own. We decry intolerance but for most of us, it is an invisible barrier
between us and the truth. On the various theories of evolution and religion, we try to blind ourselves to seeming
evident facts because we have been reared to believe that good enough is good enough. Narrow-mindedness breeds the ignorance and
superstition with which we are burdened. When we come to open our minds so that we can see more than
one side of a question, then we will have advanced far. When we learn how to weigh the truth with
an impartial mind and apply it to problems that confront us; then we cease to regard those whose thoughts and
actions lie not with the common herd, then we can call ourselves as beings who have risen above mere childishness.

Open Forum
“THE SILENT SPORTSMAN”

Known throughout the entire state as a man of few words, as “the silent coach,” Monk Younger has at last
spoken. And such a speech he has made through the columns of The Davidsonian! For his message comes not as
a boast for some victory won, nor as an alibi for some defeat handed to his cohorts. It tells not
of the points of some sport, well qualified as he is to tell of such things. His message strikes at
the heart of Davidson athletics. He has spoken sportsmanship. And perhaps he will now be known as “the silent sportsman.”

Coach Younger, in handing his short page of suggestions to The Davidsonian, said that it was through no desire to
complain of the attitude of the Davidson students. He stated that there were things done at the Davidson games that
were unsportsmanlike, but added that he thought all such actions were unintentional, arising from either carelessness or, in some isolated
cases, ignorance of what sportsmanship is. Coach Younger was fair enough to also state that the ideas were not all
original with him; that they expressed his sentiments and he wished to pass them along. On page six, column two,
can be found the words of Coach Younger. It might be well that they be read with care; that they
be pondered by every student at Davidson; and that they be incorporated into the spirit (and not the laws) of
the student body. Last fall one of the State’s best papers called the Davidson football team “the most gallant corp
of football players seen on Emerson field.” It might be well that the student body as a whole endeavor to
place its sportsmanship on a par with that of both its coach and its team.

L. D. WHARTON, JR.

Minor Chords
REVERIES

DAWN
The sky is flecked with wreath-like mists.
And in the dim, fresh, fragrant light,
Still half-clothed in the robes of night,
The western stars are only wisps,
Reviving still with tendrils deep
Until the dawn-wind, sweetly, slowly,
From its refuge, safe and holy
Brings to their heavy eyelids sleep.

SUNSET
The sun, a gleaming golden ball,
Left its course—began to fall.
And sank into the silent stream.
It floated a while, its burning rays
Dissolved, and made a golden maze.
The river shone with a solar gleam.
The limbs and leaves of a sycamore
Serenely glowed, as oft before
And from the woods came night-bird calls.
The colors faded—merged in one,
The sun near gone, the day near done—
I heard a love song in the falls.
—B. F. M.

The following is a confidential letter from a freshie on the Hill to his old buddy back in Dumbfudgett Hollow,
N. C.:

Dear Percival,

Boy, I sure am having a big time at school. Wish you were up here to run around with me.
You know nobody don't make you stay at home and study up here, so I go to see the girls
nearly every night. It sure is a fine life, kid. You had better come on up with me. Last week
I went up to Catawba College to see the sweetest little weenie that ever bobbed her hair. Her name is
Jessie Mildred. I would tell you the rest of her name but I am afraid you might write to her
and beat my time. I wrote her a long letter the same night I got back and signed it, "Yours
if you want me.” But I am afraid she didn’t want me because she hasn’t answered it yet.

Oh yes, and I went up to Mooresville last Sunday night to see another cute girl, and she said I
reminded her of the sheik in the picture show the night before. That sure did make me feel good. We
didn’t get in till after one o'clock Sunday night, but that didn’t matter, as I didn’t have to take off
my shoes to keep from waking all the home folks up. I sure do like all the ladies up here,
and round abouts, and I go to see so many that they call me a “devil with the ladies.” Well,
I must quit as I have to study my war and then go get the laundry for a couple of
sophs. Write me a letter soon, and tell me how Callie Flukers and all my other old sweethearts are getting
on.

Your old bud,
JOHNNYTHAN SMITH.

DAVIDSONIAN’S DANCE HALL

No, it isn’t a line of bull, for Davidson has a dance hall. It is located on the Third Floor
of East, way back up in the last corner, almost, and it isn’t safe to go up there without a
gun and about three dollars. You may get back, but you won't have the three dollars or any cartridges left.
All of the upperclassmen pose as the “men,” and all of the fresh have to be the “ladies.” They say
that the freshies can dance so well their part that the “men” think they are leading a calf around with
a rope. The Davidsonian sent a reporter up there Sunday to get the dope on the dive. They dived him
out of the window. He may live a week or two yet. They are so hardboiled up there that they
use coils of barbed wire for chair cushions, and drink ground glass beer for a beverage. Make ’em a visit,
fellows, but take out a couple of thousand extra in life insurance before you ascend the stairs. It might also
be a good idea to tell your best buddy what kind of flowers you prefer, and to arrange for the
music.

ILS NE PASSERONT PAS

Special News Item: Bo McMillan, prominent member of the Davidson student body, has finally passed off Fresh math. This feat
was done in the record time of three years, thus breaking the former records of Ben Franklin and Shorty Howell.
Mr. McMillan, when interviewed in his Main Street apartment, spoke very modestly of his astounding success, and attributed his triumph
to persistence and aspirin tablets. It has also been rumored that another go-getter has learned to sing songs in a
foreign language after steady practice for a little over two and a half years. The reporter could not ascertain the
veracity of this last, however.

A COLD SHOULDER

Here is a little poem that may be dedicated to the butcher's daughter who passes out cold shoulders:

Roses are red,
Violets are blue;
If ice water is hot,
Then so are you.

AND A CLUB SANDWICH

The Washington Club held a very important meeting last Monday night at the Student Store. The purpose of this meeting
was to elect officers for the spring term. The following were unanimously chosen:
Wade Allison, President.
W. H. Allison, Vice-President.
Handsome Allison, Secretary-Treasurer.
Wade H. Allison, Financial Committee Chairman.

After the business meeting, the club enjoyed a delightful feed consisting of an Eskimo pie and an orange.
