THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 21, 1926

Local Critic Presents Resume of Recent Dramatic Offerings

In a number of points, the Dramatic Club's presentations on Friday evening were superior to any we have seen at
Davidson in four years. “A Little Bleeding” was seriously handicapped by the unavoidable absence of the leading man from the
troupe, and its time limitations were also a barrier to its effective presentation; it would have been more real in
three acts. However, its brilliant color, excellent costumes, and good interpretation were highly admirable. In the cast, Tyree Dillard probably
took the laurels with his masterly interpretation of the “drunken soldier.” Henry Powell, as an eleventh-hour substitute for Guthery, revealed
remarkable ability; but he is handicapped by a voice which is none too strong. Ratchford and McNeely were also good.

Although rather didactic in tone and hackneyed in its theme, “Tailor Made” was, by all odds, the favorite of the
audience. Choice tidbits of humor, original treatment, and superb dramatization contributed to its success. Linton Deck and Fred Smith (also
author of the play) staged the best amateur acting we have seen. The opening part of the scene in which
they played alone was finished in every respect and provoked highly merited applause. However, these two veterans of the stage
were ably supported throughout by the entire cast, which was the strongest of the evening.

Judging from the viewpoint of pure dramatic excellence, “The Conqueror of the Gods,” by S. W. Brown, was superior to
its predecessors. Technique, originality of theme, and background, which were among its qualities, are all too rare. The costumes were
admirable. Each member of the troupe played his role well, while no one of them demonstrated any remarkable genius.

The settings of the three plays added materially to the presentation of the plays. Professor Erwin, director of the club,
worked early and late to assemble the sets. He was the guiding spirit behind the whole production.

R. B. P.

Buck Shaw Chosen as Chief Marshal

H. L. Shaw, Jr., of the Pandemic Literary Society, was elected Chief Commencement Marshal at the last meeting of the
society. This office is one both of honor and of work. The chief marshal has the responsibility of arranging and
leading the academic procession and of seating the crowds that attend the various commencement exercises. Shaw has been, since his
Freshman year, a leading man in literary activity. He has won a declaimer’s medal, an inter-collegiate debater’s emblem, and is
a member of the honorary forensic fraternity, Alpha Phi Epsilon.

The four literary societies each elect two marshals to serve under Shaw. All except the Metrophilian Society have run their
elections and the results are as follows: Phi Society, C. G. Davis and D. M. Calhoun; Eu Society, C. W.
Williams and W. C. Ogden; and the Pan Society, L. M. McCutcheon and Buford Webb. The election of these men
as marshals is a recognition of their faithful service to their societies and of their literary ability. The marshals will
serve seven times during commencement. Besides seating the audiences at exercises, the marshals will help in the arrangement of the
hall and in decoration. The honor of electing the chief marshal rotates among the four societies. Each society elects him
once in four years.

SOPHS PLAN CLASS BANQUET

(Continued from page 1)

Committees are headed by V. J. Guthery, program; M. M. Lockhart, finance; and J. P. McKnight, decorations. These men have
started work upon their branches and will present the class with some tangible product of their efforts in the near
future. At the same meeting of the class, Caldwell Withers was elected toastmaster. Withers is working with the program committee,
and the class speakers and the members of the faculty who are to be invited have been decided on and
the program in general has been adopted. This banquet is a yearly feature of the Sophomore class. It is to
the men of '28 what Junior Speaking and Commencement is to the two upper classes. The banquet hall is to
be decorated in the class colors, blue and gold, and while no details are to be noised abroad before the
actual affair, it has been rumored that several novel incidents are going to be introduced in the order of events.

Wildcat Quint Defeats Wofford Basketeers by Thirteen Point Margin

Anderson and Hewlette Star in Encounter With Terriers Saturday Night

The Davidson Wildcat basketball team downed the Wofford five here Saturday by the decisive score of 32 to 19. Although
the outcome of the game was never in doubt, it was fast and hard-fought throughout, and was not lacking in
interest to the spectators. Wofford furnished stiff opposition all through the game, but was unable to check the flashy attack
of the Wildcats, especially that of Anderson and Hewlette, guards, who frequently brought applause for their tossing of long and
difficult shots. These two players were all over the floor, continually threatening, and rolling up between them 22 of their
team’s 32 points. Several spurts of good playing on the part of the Wofford five carried them to scores, but
they could not consistently break through Davidson's defense, which was stronger than that shown by the Cats in previous games
this year. Lockman and Habel played well for Wofford, the latter displaying a speed which proved troublesome to his opponents.
Wofford’s team as a whole showed no outstanding weak points, but they seemed not to be able to quite keep
pace with the fast-stepping Wildcats.

Tom Anderson, in scoring 15 points, ran up a total higher than has been made by any other Davidson player
this year in a single game. He was high point scorer on the team last year and his performance in
this game indicates that he will again be in the running for high man. His shots were true and sent
from all angles. Several of Hewlette’s shots were from the center of the court. Coach Monk Younger has been shifting
his line-up since the earlier games, and he seems to have hit upon a winning combination. His men seemed to
have found their natural position and for the most part worked together with smooth precision.

Davidson (32) Wofford (19)
Laird (5) (C) Habel (5) Position
Huie (5) Lockman (6) Forward
Wilson Shuler (4) Center
Anderson (15) Bargon (4) Guard
Hewlette (7) Kennedy (C) Guard

Substitutions: Harrison for Hewlette; Hewlette for Harrison; Harrison for Anderson; Hudgins for Wilson; Staples for Shuler; Shuler for Habel. Referee:
Hengeveld.

ARRIVAL OF EXAMS

(Continued from page 1)

brute and have been carried away in the struggle. The wise sophomore, having lost much of his fear of the
monster, having seen him on two previous occasions, either prepares for the night before the battle to cram and prepare
for the struggle on the next day. The latter class usually discovers too late that his training was all too
short, and the beast consumes him in the encounter. The hopeful junior, with twoYears of experience, has discovered the weak
points of his opponent, and plans his attack in a cool and calculating manner. A battle-scarred veteran, he goes into
the fray and waits until he sees the whites of the eyes of the monster before he shoots. The most
delightful pastime of the great beast, and one in which he takes the most pleasure, is that of devouring the
diplomas of the senior class. Deprived of the privilege of destroying many of this class by that powerful weapon which
only they can use, he wreaks especial vengeance on those few unfortunates who do not have the use of this
protector.

CHRISTIAN CITIZENSHIP (Continued from page 3)

The meeting was conducted by W. T. Covington. After the reading of the scripture in the opening devotional, Herbert Worzel
played as a violin solo, “The Rosary.” Judge Harding dismissed the meeting with prayer.

Gridiron Practice to Commence Soon

The time for spring football has nearly arrived. Just as soon as exams are finished, the boys will be called
upon to don their moleskins and hop to it. February 1st is the date set for the official opening. The
practice is to run well into March, or approximately six weeks in all. During that time two things are going
to be accomplished: first, the participants will learn the rudiments of football; and second, the coach will be able to
get a line on what sort of team he is going to put out next fall.

Coach Tex Tilson is to have complete charge of the annual spring work-out, and promises to give the boys plenty
and then some. He wants it distinctly understood that those who do not come out for the spring training cannot
come out next fall. Men on the basketball and wrestling teams are the only exceptions. Captain-elect Wells and the rest
of the letter men will in all probability be the assistants to Tex. The primary purpose is to discover new
material and to teach enough football that a team can be speedily assembled in September. It aids also in keeping
the players who do not go in for other sports in fighting trim. Every man who is issued a uniform
is expected to be out for practice every day, and if he doesn’t want to, they don’t want him. On
the other hand, every man will be given an opportunity to strut his stuff in the practice games, if he
shows that old sticking ability, the biggest item of a Wildcat makeup.

Dr. Martin is in New York attending the Association of Southern Schools and Colleges.

Welsh Quartet Will be Next Lyceum Number

Junior Class to Present Popular Quartet—To Appear Middle of February

The next number of the Lyceum course under the auspices of the Junior class will appear in Shearer Hall on
the evening of Monday, February 15th. The Adams Welsh Quartet will present on that date an entertainment that will come
up to the expectations of all. This attraction, as have been all the rest, is under the management of the
Piedmont Bureau, of Asheville, N. C. The program that will be rendered by the quartet should please anyone. It is
a delightful mixture of the classic, popular, and humorous. The members of the company are all members of the Royal
Male Chorus of Wales. They specialize in vocal music and their program includes solos, duets, and ensemble numbers of the
highest type. The program also includes a costume sketch. The music ranges from the simple, popular melodies to the most
difficult operatic masterpieces. While primarily singers, the men are none the less entertainers of unquestioned ability, and their program will
be replete with new and novel features.

The final number of the Lyceum is dated for Thursday, February 25th. The Frazers will appear on that date in
what promises to be one of the most entertaining programs of the year. A more detailed account of this attraction
will be given later.

Mrs. Martin is entertaining tonight for her daughter, Mrs. A. L. Currie, of Louisville, Ky.

Dramatic Club to Make Spring Trip

The Dramatic Club, according to a recent announcement, is contemplating the presentation of three plays in neighboring cities some time
in the near future. Plans for the tour are not yet complete, but officials of the club have expressed an
intention to push the project in an effort to secure recognition for the work the club has accomplished. The prospective
tour will carry the club to such cities as Gastonia, Greensboro, Charlotte, and possibly several other large towns in this
vicinity. It will be the first time in the history of the club that such a trip has been made,
and with the exception of a Davidson minstrel which toured North Carolina some years ago, it will be the first
time that a Davidson dramatic club has ever made any sort of a tour. The recent performance of the club
attracted much favorable attention, and the members of the club, and their director, Prof. E. J. Erwin, have been showered
with praise for the excellent progress made by the club this year.

DAVIDSON SONGBIRDS (Continued from page 1)

to present the club in two other Georgia cities and one in South Carolina, but, as the club is allowed
only a certain number of days for extensive trips, the dates formally held open for Milledgeville and Augusta, Ga., and
Columbia, S. C., were cancelled. The club will make a short trip to Shelby and play in that city on
the night of February 13th. This trip is the first of quite a number of one-night trips which extend throughout
the spring.

When the runners are bunched on the track—and suddenly Chuck, your own superman half-miler, spurts ahead on the finish and
wins—have a Camel! Into the making of this one cigarette goes all of the ability of the world’s largest organization
of expert tobacco men. Nothing is too good for Camels. The choicest Turkish and domestic tobaccos. The most skilful blending.
The most scientific package. No other cigarette made is like Camels. Camels are the overwhelming choice of experienced smokers. No
better cigarette can be made. Camels are the choice of the choicest tobaccos grown—they never disappoint your taste. Camels annihilated
cigarette after-taste. Regardless of price, you'll never buy better tobaccos, or blending, or flavor than you get in Camels. So
this year when the old school’s men go through for victory after victory—taste then the smoke that’s choice of the
world’s victorious. Have a Camel!

Our highest wish, if you do not yet know Camel quality, is that you try them. We invite you to
compare Camels with any cigarette made at any price.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
