THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1926

Professor Foreman Will Deliver Final “Y” Talk
Dr. Raynal, of Statesville, Will Speak on May Twenty-Third

The Y. M. C. A. will conduct only two more Vesper Services this year. The speaker for next Sunday is
A. M. Hillhouse, of the class of '24. “Spoofy” has served as general secretary of the Y. M. C. A.
this year and in this position has done a great work here on the campus. He is a member of
Phi Beta Kappa and of the Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternities. He was salutatorian of the class of ‘24. During
his college life at Davidson, Spoofy was active in many campus activities and was president of the student body his
senior year. Unfortunately, he will not return next year but will be in school at Carolina.

The speaker for May 23rd will be Dr. C. C. Raynal, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville. Dr.
Raynal is well known as a deep thinker and forceful speaker.

The “Y” cabinet has been fortunate enough to obtain Prof. K. J. Foreman to deliver the annual “Y” commencement sermon
on Sunday, May 30th. The new Y. M. C. A. cabinet has gotten well under way to make next year
one of the best years the “Y” has ever had on the Davidson campus. The new cabinet went on their
regular spring outing last Saturday night. They left Saturday afternoon for the “Y” retreat in time to cook supper. Sunday
morning Dr. H. B. Arbuckle went out to the overnight camp and spoke to the cabinet. The 14 men who
made up the party returned Sunday morning in time for church after having a very enjoyable time.

Plans are afoot for a big “Y” house-party during commencement. The first party sponsored by the Y. M. C. A.
was during Junior Speaking. This proved to be a great success and was a central social center during Easter. All
men who are having girls up during commencement will see “Spoofy” Hillhouse who has charge of the arrangements of the
party.

Fellows: You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station Davidson, N. C.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see FRED SMITH 3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

BASEBALL TEAM DEFEATS (Continued from page 1)

The beloved Davidson uniform that he has worn for the past four years. He closed his athletic career on Richardson
field in equally as great a blaze of glory as he has shown all during his four years here. Outside
of the hitting of Vance, who secured three other blows besides his memorable homer, the game was featured by the
hitting of both teams, both securing an equal number of hits. The fielding of J. Kugler on short was best,
he having handled seven chances cleanly. Elon used three pitchers in an attempt to stop the heavy slugging of the
Wildcats, while Coach Monk used Laird and xNone-out in tenth, xxBatted for Duling in 8th.

Elon 003 240 002 0—11 16 3
Davidson 003 142 100 1—12 16 4

Summary: Errors, Lindley, H. Crutchfield, Slaughter, Woodham, Dulin, Glenn 2; two-base hits: Bryant, Braxton, Johnson; home runs: Alford, Vance; stolen
bases: Vance 2; double play: J. Kugler to Glenn; base on balls: off Bryant 1, Laird 4, Huie 1; struck
out: by Bryant 4, Shepherd 1, Laird 1; left on bases: Elon 11, Davidson 9; winning pitcher: Huie; losing pitcher:
D. Shepherd; umpire: Hengeveld.

Playing before a comparatively small crowd of fans in Gastonia last Saturday, Davidson lost her last game of the season
to Duke by the score of 8 to 5. The game was devoid of features, unless it was the ability
of the whole Davidson team to boot the ball around, and to throw it away at critical times. The game
was very fast, being completed in one hour and thirty-five minutes. Both teams got off to a poor start, Duke
scoring one run on two errors, while Davidson scored three runs on loose fielding. After the first inning, however, Duke
settled down, and gave Thompson good support, while the Davidson players could not get themselves together to play the brand
of ball that they have displayed during the season. Davidson outhit the Blue Devils, but their hits were not nearly
as timely, or as long as those of Duke. Laird, Vance, Alford, and F. Kugler, all playing their last game
of their career on the Davidson team, all starred, Laird for his consistent pitching, which should have won the ball
game, had not so many errors been made behind him; Vance and Alford for their consistent and timely hitting, and
Kugler for his beautiful one-handed stop of a hard-hit ball in the ninth inning, that had the earmarks of being
stretched into an extra base blow. The other feature of the game was the long home run to right field,
hit by Huiet. The following is the box score:

ELON. AB R H O A
Lindley, ss 5 1 1 2 2
H. Crutchfield, 2b 5 1 1 0 3
Braxton, cf 5 1 2 0 0
Simpson, lf 5 1 2 0 0
Woodham, rf 5 1 2 0 0
Dulin, 3b 5 1 2 0 2
Glenn, 1b 5 1 2 0 2
Bryant, p 5 1 2 0 2
Mogleman, p 5 1 2 0 2
D. Shepherd, p 5 1 2 0 2
Total 44 11 16 27 15

DAVIDSON. AB R H O A
Woodham, lf 6 3 2 1 0
Johnson, cf 6 1 2 0 0
Vance, rf 6 2 4 2 0
Alford, c 6 1 2 0 0
Laird, p 6 1 2 0 0
Huie, p 6 1 2 0 0
Dulin, 3b 6 1 2 0 0
Glenn, 1b 6 1 2 0 0
Total 42 12 16 30 17

Annual Dedicated to Coach Younger

The 1926 “Quips and Cranks,” the yearbook of Davidson College, made its initial appearance on the Davidson campus yesterday, the
books being delivered from the office of the publication. One hundred and fifty volumes were published by the printing company
and delivered to the students yesterday. The annual is somewhat larger than in previous years and the editor, H. L.
Shaw, and the business manager, L. L. Deck, have presented one of the best yearbooks ever seen on the Hill.
The book has appeared earlier this year than in the past few, this time enough for all the seniors to
obtain them before leaving for home. The theme of the fighting spirit of the Wildcat has been carried out throughout
the book, with each announcement page having a reproduction of the Wildcat beneath the title of the following section. The
annual this year is dedicated to Coach W. L. (Monk) Younger, general director of athletics at Davidson, and it is
peculiarly fitting that the theme should follow the dedication of the book to such a personification of the Wildcat spirit
as Coach Monk. The general plan of all annuals is carried out in so far as the general division of
the sections are concerned. This year the senior section carries three men to the page, while last year only two
were placed on each page.The junior section carries twelve men to the page while the soph and fresh pictures are
in groups. The cover of the book this year is a deep maroon, with a replica of the seal and
the name plate also being on the front. The artwork for this year is also very clever and well worked
out. A special section at the last is devoted to humor and wit, being called the David's Onion. This section
is very clever and affords much enjoyment to those who know conditions and characters at Davidson.

In the Elon game of last week, the batting power of the locals was clearly shown. Two unusual home runs
were made by Alford and Vance. The Davidson captain, a left-hand hitter, caught one of the pitcher's fast balls and
lost the ball against the left field fence. This feat was later duplicated in the reverse fashion when Vance, a
sure left-field batter, crashed a homer to right field in the tenth frame, winning the game. The Freshman class at
Wake Forest can rightly boast of the beauty of their class sponsor, for Miss Ruth Dunning was Beauty Queen at
the Eastern Carolina Exposition held during April. No one was on base at the time. The following is the box
score:

DUKE. AB R H O A
Citt 4 2 0 2 1 0
Gy 4 2 0 2 1 0
RGA 4 0 1 2 0 0
Broome 4 5 1 0 0
Zale 4 0 1 1 2 0
Sikes 4 0 2 2 5 4
TWh 4 3 2 0 0
MUNOMAS 4 0 1 0 0
Total 37 8 10 27 12

DAVIDSON. AB R H O A
Woodham 4 0 1 0 0
Wanice 4 1 2 2 3 0
OMAN 4 2 2 0 0
Black 1 0 0 0 0
Avokugler 2 0 0 0 2
Dulin 4 0 2 3 3
Glenn 3 0 0 4 5
Davis 0 0 0 0
Long 2 0 0 0
Total

xBatted for J. Kugler in 8th.
xxBatted for Glenn in 9th.

Duke 130 000 300 1—8
Davidson 222 000 300 011 000 0—5

Errors: Woodham, J. Kugler, Dulin, Glenn, Weaver; two-base hit: Bunting; three-base hits: Woodham, Weaver, Bunting; home run: Long; sacrifices: Cranford,
Pearce, Laird; base on balls: off Laird 1, off Thompson 0; struck out: by Laird 3, by Thompson 2; stolen
bases: Johnson, Woodham; wild pitch: Laird; left on bases: Duke 3, Davidson 5; time: 1 hour 35 minutes; umpires: Hengeveld
(Davidson), and T. Johnson.

Alumni Notes

A bronze tablet dedicated to the Chaplains who were killed in action, was unveiled on Wednesday, May 5th in Arlington
National Cemetery. Among those chaplains who lost their lives in the World War and who are honored by this memorial,
was Thomas M. Bulla, of the class of 1907.

Mr. Lovett Douglass, of the class of 1911, has been recently elected mayor of Dunedin, Fla., for the second time.

Rev. and Mrs. Charles Rees Jenkins announce the birth, at Kobe, Japan, of Charles Rees, Jr. on March 15, 1926.
Rev. Mr. Jenkins was a member of the class of 1909.

Mr. James O. Cobb, of Durham, a member of the class of 1923, was united in marriage with Miss Virginia
Whitlock, at the Trinity Methodist Church, of Charlotte, on Wednesday evening, April 21st.

George W. Mackey, '11, Secretary of the YMCA, brought an automobile full of high school boys for a weekend visit
to Davidson the past week.

Victor Brown, '24, is a student at Louisville Theological Seminary.

The alumni were glad to learn of the election of Dr. R. Lacy, former Davidson student and new pastor of
the Central Church of Atlanta, as President of the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. Dr. W. W. Moore, also a
Davidson graduate, has been elected to be president-emeritus and lecturer.

Oak Ridge Cadets Fall Before Davidson Fresh Led by Captain Roddey

Match is Rained Out as Freshmen Lead Three to One

The Wildkittens’ tennis match with Oak Ridge was called off last Monday afternoon with Davidson leading three matches to one.
A heavy deluge interfered with the final two matches. The matches were featured by unusually close and exciting games. The
freshmen easily swept through both singles and doubles. Up to this date, Roddey has lost only one match and bids
fair to be the star of the varsity next year. John Roddey was the outstanding star for Davidson. In the
only other singles match, Bradley lost to Simpson in a very exciting battle. The other two matches were called off
because of the heavy rain. Flowe was far in the lead of Dickenson and James was tied with his opponent.

Flowe and James starred in the doubles by coming from behind to defeat their opponents, Johnson and Dickenson, two sets
to one. Roddey and Bradley encountered little difficulty in defeating the number one team from Oak Ridge in straight sets.
The summary of the matches is as follows:

Singles: Roddey (Davidson) defeated Scott (Oak Ridge) 6-1; 8-6. Simpson (Oak Ridge) defeated Bradley (Davidson) 7-5; 6-4. Flowe’s (Davidson) match
with Dickenson (Oak Ridge) was called because of the rain with Flowe leading 6-3; 5-4. James (Davidson) and Johnson (Oak
Ridge) were tied one-all in sets.

Doubles: Roddey and Bradley (Davidson) defeated Scott and Simpson (Oak Ridge) 6-3; 6-2. Flowe and James (Davidson) defeated Johnson and
Dickenson (Oak Ridge) 4-6; 6-4; 7-5.

“Although derbies are not going to be popular with the seniors at Mercer University, canes and class rings will be
quite the fashion of the day.” This was the decision made by the Seniors last October and now they are
swinging their canes as the time of their graduation draws near.

Furman University at the Tech relays, won the mile relay for colleges in that conference. Last year they also won
the half-mile and therefore came into permanent possession of the cup for the half-mile.

As this is the last issue this year of the Davidsonian, we wish to take this means to thank you
for your generous patronage this year. We assure you it is very greatly appreciated.

During the remainder of the college year we have some excellent attractions booked. Two pictures we know you will especially
like are, “Brown of Harvard” (the best picture of college life we ever saw), and “Sandy.” Watch out for them.

--- THE IMPERIAL MANAGEMENT

Just one of many! The others are fully as desirable — footwear for any requirement, any occasion, & reasonably priced.
You are cordially invited to come and look ’em over!

On Display By Mr. A. M. Shimmon May 25 and 26 At the Students’ Store

JOHNSTON & MURPHY INCORPORATED — REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.

Send for Catalog, Mail Orders, 191 Hudson St, New York City

VICTORY THEATRE MOORESVILLE N.C. WEEKLY PROGRAMME

Wed. and Thurs., May 12-13. Sally, Irene and Mary, with O’Neill, Adoree, Boardman. Also comedy, Sky Hooks.

Fri. and Sat., May 14-15. Steel Preferred, with an all-star cast. Also two-reel comedy, Oh! Bridget.

Mon. and Tues., May 17-18. Beverly of Graustark, a Metro-Goldwyn special. Also comedy, Don’t Stop.

Wed. and Thurs. May 19-20. Time, the Comedian, with Mae Busch and Lew Cody. Comedy, Tries the Trades.

Fri. and Sat., May 21-22. Prince of Pilsen, P. D. C. special. Comedy, Beware.

Coming, May 26-27. His Secretary.
