THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 18, 1925

FELLOWS

We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.

The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

SMART PAJAMAS

It pays to buy pajamas, like these, that are cut generously for comfort, that are made of fadeless materials, that are finished as carefully as a well-made shirt. Wide range of patterns and colors. Priced at $2.00 and up.

The Tate-Brown Co.

Cagemen to Play Three Games in Annual Tour Against State Schools

State, Duke and Carolina to be Encountered During Four-Day Trip

On Saturday morning the Wildcat basketball team will leave on its road trip through the Old North State, this being the final trip of the season. On Saturday night the Wildcats will meet the Wolfpack at N. C. State. On their journey to Davidson, the N. C. State team defeated the Wildcats and the game the night of the 20th will be a struggle throughout since the Davidson team will be fighting to avenge the defeat handed them earlier in the season. Sunday will be spent in Raleigh and the Davidson team will rest up for the strenuous games of the following week.

Leaving Raleigh, the team will go to Durham, where they are scheduled to meet the Duke team Monday night, the 22nd. This will also be, in a way, a grudge battle, since the Wildcats succeeded in downing the Duke team by the narrow margin of one point when they visited Davidson on their Southern trip. In this encounter the teams seemed very evenly matched and in the coming game the going will be hot and heavy throughout. The Duke team has improved in every respect since the battle at the first of the season and the Wildcats will have a hard time in subduing them again.

The final game of the trip, as now scheduled, will be at Chapel Hill, when the Davidson team meets the University of North Carolina, Southern inter-collegiate champions of last year. This will be the only game between the two institutions during this season and each of the rivals is anxious to score a victory over the other. In dope, the Tar Heels have a great advantage, and the only optimistic hope for the Davidson team seems to be that of holding them to a low score. In its recent Northern trip, the Carolina team met some of the foremost teams of the East and made a most commendable showing before them, while the Davidson team has been running only a little over mediocre form. After this game the Wildcat team returns to its lair for the final game of the season.

The curtain for the 1926 season will be rung down on the night of the 27th, when Citadel meets here at Davidson. The Charleston team has made a fine record so far this season, and the Davidson team will have no little difficulty in downing them. The Furman team, which defeated Davidson last Saturday night, was whipped by the Citadel team by nearly a 20-point margin. This game will mark the formal closing of the season.

BRENAU DRAWS MEN
(Continued from page 1)

College, N. C. C. W., Duke University, and Davidson College. The members of the Davidson College organization, according to the usual custom, have selected as their delegates to this gathering their president and secretary, Messrs. R. B. Parker and W. A. Christian. Mr. R. B. Parker is also second-vice-president of the Southern Association of the club.

Another interesting feature of the program will be an inter-collegiate debate between Furman University and the University of Alabama. The query chosen for the debate is: Resolved, That the United States should enter the World Court. Various social functions by the Brenau belles, the Chamber of Commerce, and River-

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

In this issue of The Davidsonian formal announcement is made of the high school track meet that is to be staged at Davidson on Saturday afternoon, March 27th, which will be received by the students with interest. The affair of last year is recalled, and it is the firm intention of Coach Tilson to make this far exceed the first attempt. Back home there may be a coach who needs a little urging to bring his team here. The students can add their bit to the idea by exerting their influence toward getting as many teams here as possible. Then show an interest in the high school men when they arrive as our guests.

Thought last week that we might make a little comment on the Freshman team. Looking over the scorebook for their swing over the state, however, we will let you judge for yourself, by looking at the account of their trip.

Baseball began Monday afternoon, with 18 men on hand. But with wrestling and basketball still occupying the stage, several good men are kept from the practice. The first day’s crew is not indicative of the final number Coach Monk Younger will have to work with when he takes charge on March 1st. Until this Captain Alford will wear the title of Coach-Captain Alford.

The mind of Coach Monk is already working on his baseball team. Not satisfied (how could he be?) with the result of last season, he is going to try various combinations which mightor might not reveal hidden baseball players. Captain Alford at present has come in from the gardens and is letting the pitcher's heaves reverberate in resounding thuds in a catcher’s mitt. "If the weather stays like it is today," said Coach Tilson Monday night, "track practice will start within a day or two." But we are a bit mournful when we think of the track team this year being minus the service of the “war-horse” sprinter. Hopes were high, we were feeling fine; but hopes have diminished and we are feeling sad. But not pessimistic. We have some hard workers. Certainly, we were glad to see Alf Brand come back after a month or two vacation, and we hope his leg will permit running. The cold chill blasts of a winter’s day will be wished for by the football squad Saturday afternoon, when they will again line up in battle array for the first football game of the spring practice. The referee’s whistle will sound good and will take us back to last fall when the Wildcats made an enviable football record. Many notable faces will be missed from the line-up. Austin College has adopted a new plan of having the professors visit the rooms of the students in their dormitories. These visits are not of an official nature but purely on a friendly basis. The faculty has come to the conclusion that they can do more good by getting in closer touch with the student and discussing purely personal problems with them than they can by impersonal classroom discussions of technical subjects.—Hampden-Sidney Tiger. Side Academy have been promised the delegates. Other North Carolina institutions which are members of the association are: Duke, Carolina, N. C. C. W., Salem, and State.

EAT AT STOR LUNCH SERVICE
THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

CORRECTION
Captain Bill Cox and Downing wrestled fifteen minutes to a draw in the Davidson-V. P. I. meet instead of Cox losing as was reported by the press dispatches from Blacksburg. Downing had previously won from University of North Carolina, North Carolina State, Washington and Lee, and University of Virginia. The same was true of Barr, whom Joe Frierson defeated on time. The showing of these two Davidson men was one of the brightest spots of the match.

L. D. WHARTON, Jr.

During the second week in last fall, Washington and Lee to be met in the first tennis match on April second. Annual Spring Tournament will be held soon to pick the tennis team. With the coming of spring and warm weather, aspirants for the tennis team expect to soon swing into action. The nets are now being repaired and as soon as the weather permits, the courts will be put in playing condition. Manager McCutcheon urges that all expecting to go out for the team begin practice as soon as the courts are in condition as the “Round Robin” tournament to be held in March. This tournament is to be run off between those making a good showing in the tournament. There will also be a Freshman tournament at this time. If the Freshmen can develop a fair team, they will be able to secure a few intercollegiate matches.

First Match
The first varsity match will be played during spring holidays with Washington and Lee. A trip is also being planned for the second week in April to include South Carolina and Georgia teams. In addition to this trip, several days will be spent in the North Carolina intercollegiate tournament.

HIGH-PRICED LITERATURE
He wrote her eyes were azure
As the sky on a perfect day;
He wrote her hair was golden
Like the sunlight’s fairest ray.
He wrote her lips were crimson
As the cherry at its very best;
He wrote her beauty thrilled him
Deep in his manly chest.
But ah! he wed another!
And when the maiden heard,
She sold him back his letters
At twenty dollars a word.
—Princeton Tiger.

Down at Wesleyan College at Macon, Ga., several girls have formed a club for the preservation of the Queen's English. Such words as dog-gone require a fine of 5 cents from the offender. There are others just a little stronger that cost the user ten cents. Then there are those (and they fail to illustrate) that are so bad that a quarter is required of the one so unlucky as to be overheard using them. The fines go to a common treasury, probably to be used in paying their date’s car-fare or to buy rouge for the “everlasting bumming element.” These rules were very thoughtfully suspended, however, during exams, in order to allow a free usage of the English language.

Although V. P. I. won from Davidson in wrestling last Saturday afternoon, it was a thrilling mat tilt, and we haven’t any reason to believe but that we will make a bid for state honors. Viewed from any angle, these spring suits are the finest lot we ever cast our optics on. They not only have the necessary collegiate swankiness about them, but they reflect quality from fore to aft. A lot more could be said about them, but we’d rather have you see them yourself. Drop down some P. M. and try on a few of them.

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Golf Clubs FIRE SALE!
50 percent off on all clubs and bags
Baby Dimple balls at $4.50 a dozen
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Company
Bags Balls Cleaning and

ATTENTION,
We have opened up a new, modernly-equipped
The Student Pressing Club
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“Tex” Tilson and Monk Mattox, Proprietors
Student Representatives: Wade Leggette and Kelley Woodham

WILDCATS Pressing Club
E. F. Bohannon