THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1926

Gloria Swanson In “Stage Struck” to be Shown in Gymnasium Saturday Night

“Stage Struck,” starring Gloria Swanson, is the feature picture to be shown at the gym Saturday night. This picture has
had long runs in many of the leading theatres of the country and is hailed as one of the best
pictures of the year. Gloria takes the part of a waitress in a restaurant and plays opposite Larry Gray as
the leading man. The picture opens with Jennie Hagen (Miss Swanson) entering a large theatre, the entrance of which is
crowded with interesting and admiring spectators. The scene abruptly changes to a king’s palace where she is again royally welcomed.
These two scenes are then explained by the scene fading into a cheap restaurant, where Gloria is standing, tray in
hand, daydreaming as she watches Orme Wilson (Larry Gray) juggle flapjacks. Jennie is afflicted with stage ambitions and also with
her love for Orme and does not realize that the proprietor, his wife, and a crowd of hungry diners are
shouting at her. When she does finally wake up, she makes several blunders, such as dropping her glass beads in
the soup and flopping a pancake up on her head in her haste and confusion.

Later, when Orme goes down to the boat landing to meet the theatre boat, the leading lady gets interested in
him and agrees to meet him the next day at the restaurant. Jealous, Jennie tries to prevent the meeting in
several ways and finally succeeds by cutting her finger, making it necessary for Orme to stay and peel the potatoes.
The actress leaves the restaurant in a fit of indignation, Orme gazing after her with a pathetic stare, and Jennie
looking after her with a light of victory in her eyes. The following day Jennie wins a temporary triumph over
her rival by winning the potato race at a small town picnic, which is one of the funniest scenes ever
put in a picture. Pathetic little Jennie makes a final desperate effort to win the favor of Orme by securing
a job on the theatre boat as “the masked marvel” in a woman's boxing match. Jennie almost knocks out her
rival but in the end takes the count herself. On seeing her jump into the river, Orme rescues her and
takes her home. The picture closes with another full-color sequence showing Jennie and Orme in their own elaborately appointed lunch
wagon. Jennie, the cashier, looks on adoringly as Orme, head waiter (head waiter because he is the only one), draws
designs of two hearts and an arrow with the pancake batter.

Wildcat Track Men Enter State Meet

Following the meet with Clemson and Georgia Tech, the Wildcat track squad has gone through a week of intensive training
preparatory to the state meet which will be held at N. C. State, in Raleigh, on Friday and Saturday. The
following men left Davidson this morning accompanied by Coach Tilson and Manager Crayton: Harry Goodykoontz, George Smith, D. M. Calhoun,
R. G. Calhoun, W. H. Jennings, and Clement Penn. The following Freshmen made the trip to compete against the Freshman
teams from the other state colleges: Kell, Flynn, Regen, Leftwich, Ely, Smith, Bailey, and Frye. The preliminaries for the events
will be run off tomorrow and those qualifying will compete in the finals Saturday. The meet has been won by
Carolina for the last four years and some of the fastest competition ever seen in North Carolina is expected at
this meet. If the weather is good several state records will likely topple as all the teams seem to be
in better condition than they have been in the past few years.

Seniors Elect Speakers For Class Day Program

Houston, Pullen, and Parker Are Chosen as Orators

At a recent meeting of the Senior class, Roland Parker was elected Valedictorian by acclamation. For Salutatorian, C. E. Houston
and Tom Barr were nominated, with C. E. Houston being elected. E. T. Pullen was chosen as Orator, being elected
over Tom Baker, G. F. Laird, and Tom Barr. Kenneth Foreman, Jr., was elected Mascot by a vote of 25
to 23 over Jean Rumple. Each year the Senior class holds its class exercises on the Tuesday before Commencement, at
which time the above-named people take part in the program and the class gift is formally presented. The program is
always one of interest and the class of '26 plans to make their program especially interesting. The above-named Valedictorian and
Salutatorian are not the ones chosen because of high scholastic standing, although both men rank high in the class standing.
The regular men who will have these honors will be announced at a later date. The sending of invitations and
various other matters will be attended to in the near future. Plans for Commencement are rapidly rounding out. The program,
which lasts from Monday through Wednesday, in the first week of June, will include a great number of social events,
class exercises, and activities. The climax will come when theDiplomas are delivered on Wednesday morning, June 3rd. The major class
exercises will be held on the campus on Tuesday afternoon. He sprained his ankle severely in the meet last Saturday.
Clement Penn's leg was giving him some trouble in the Clemson-Georgia Tech meet, but he will be all right when
his event is called. Carolina and State are scheduled to get their share of points as usual, although stiff competition
will be furnished from several quarters. Goodykoontz and Penn won their events in the Carolina-Davidson meet and will be expected
to lead the field Saturday. George Smith has garnered quite a number of points this season and will no doubt
add to his collection at State. The Calhoun Brothers have won first places in every meet of the year, and
Clement Penn has won his event except in the meet last Saturday, when he had to stop for a while
on account of his leg, finishing third after that. Jennings will represent Davidson in the pole vaulting event. He won
second place in the last meet besides his other wins of the season. Duke nosed out V. M. I. in
a dual meet last Saturday with Ervin as high-point man, winning the 220, the low hurdles, and second in the
century. State won from Wake Forest by a top-heavy score, making good fire on the mile, the 880, and the
hurdles. Spurlock, who recently made 20 points as he entered unofficially in the meet between Davidson and South Carolina, will
represent Lenoir-Rhyne at the meet. He will enter field events only and is almost certain to capture several first places.
Carolina will have a fast bunch as usual and will probably win the meet. The Tar Heel squad defeated Davidson
by a large score early in the season and some of their men were in Atlanta at the time. Flynn
and Kell will take care of the dashes for the Fresh team with Regen and Leftwich handling the weights. Ely
will enter the mile event. Bailey and Frye will represent the Wildkittens in the pole vault, and Smith will do
the high jumping. Frye and Flynn will also enter the hurdles. Captain Anderson will be missed in the pole vault,
hurdles, and javelin, he having sprained his ankle.

SENIOR EXAMINATION SCHEDULE

MAY

SAT. A.M. German 3, Law, Spanish 3, Biology 2, 3
15 P.M. Accounting, History 5, Political Science 1, Physics 4

TUES. A.M. Economics 1, French 3, Applied Math. 1, 2
18 P.M. Chemistry 6, Education 2, Economics 2, English 3, 5, Mathematics 3

WED. A.M. Christian Evidences, Church History, Education 1, Political Science 2, Chemistry 3, Spanish 5, 6
19 P.M. Biology 1, Greek 3, 5, 6

THURS. A.M. Economics 3, Math. 4, Psychology 1, 3, Public Speaking and Debate, R.O.T.C. 3, 4
20 P.M. Psychology 2, Spanish 4, Chemistry 4, 5

FRI. A.M. English 6, Philosophy 1, 2, Physics 1
21 P.M. French 1, Spanish 1, German 1, History 1, 2

SAT. A.M. Astronomy, Geology, Biology 4, History 3, 4, Physics 2, 3
22 P.M.

Unusual Excellence Never Happens by Chance (ESPECIALLY THREE TIMES IN A ROW)

The fact that we have again been awarded the contract for the handsome 500-page yearbook of the United States Military
Academy evidences an organization and service that can work with you equally well. Our personnel are all college men who
know and appreciate your particular ideas and problems. We will appreciate an opportunity to work with you. A $25,000 Government
contract—a solid carload shipment of handsome books—placed with this company in the face of severe Northern competition.

The QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

When the straight-8 blows a shoe

BEFORE you even look for the jack or tire tools, tuck a neat wad of Prince Albert into the muzzle
of your jimmy-pipe. Light up and get yourself in the frame of mind where a flat tire is "all in
the day’s work." Talk about a gloom-chaser! P. A. simply knocks troubles for a row of planished-steel mudguards. Its cool,
soothing smoke percolates into your system, the sun crashes through the clouds, and everything is hotsy-totsy. Yes indeed, Fellows, Prince
Albert is great tobacco. With bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process, P.A. is sold everywhere in tidy
red tins, pound and half-pound humidors.

And paste this in the fly-leaf of your thesaurus: P. A. can’t bite your tongue or parch your throat, no
matter how hard you hit it up. The Prince Albert process flunked Bite and Parch on their first examination. Get
a tidy red tin of P. A. now and see.

PRINCE ALBERT—no other tobacco is like it!

© 1926, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.
