THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 18, 1925

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
The Best Places to Eat
CHARLOTTE

ASTHMA
There is no “cure,” but the wheezy breathing that prevents sleep may oftentimes be relieved by inhaling the soothing medicated
vapors of—
Vicks VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

NEW HANDY PACK
Fits hand, pocket, and purse
More for your money and the best Peppermint Chewing Sweet for any money
Look for Wrigley’s P. K. Handy Pack on your Dealer’s Counter

Fellows: You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
Davidson, N. C.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

“An itching sensation.”

OH, what is so rare as a day in June? A steak that’s cooked and served too soon.

Hern—“Isn’t this a stupid party?”
Her—“Yes.”
Hern—“Then let me take you home.”
Her—“Sorry, I live here.”

Condemned Prisoner—“Warden, I need exercise.”
Warden—“Well, what kind of exercise would you like?”
C. P.—“Well, I'd like to skip the rope.”

Samson had the right idea about advertising. He took two columns and brought down the whole house.

“Where is the Manager’s office?”
“Follow the passage until you come to a sign reading, ‘No Admittance.’ Go upstairs until you see a placard saying,
‘Keep out.’ Go on down the corridor until you see another sign reading, ‘Silence’; then yell for him.”

“I hear your son is quite a journalist in college. Does he write for money?”
“Yes, in every letter.”

“Sister, what's a stag?”
“A dear with no dough.”

Inmate at Insane Asylum—“Hey, janitor, is that clock right?”
Janitor—“Yes, why?”
Inmate—“Well, what's it doing here then?”

First Old Maid—“What would you rather have than anything else in this world?”
Second Old Maid—“A nice sob.”

Prosecutor—“Where were you on the night of May thirteenth?”
“Were you with a lady?”
“No, my wife.”
“Did anything strange happen?”
“Yes, she said I could go out.”
“Did you suspect anything?”
“I suspected she had gone crazy.”
“Did you hear any strange noises?”
“Yes, my daughter was singing.”
“When did you first suspect that murder had been committed?”
“When I saw three bullet-ridden bodies lying on the floor.”
“Where were they shot?”
“In the room.”
“What did you do?”
“Tried to keep the policemen from taking their watches and money.”
“What sensation did you feel?”
“What caused it?”
“My new woolen underwear.”
“Case dismissed.”

“Are you a college man?”
“No, but I know where you can get it for $4 a pint.”

“We'll now sing that charming little ditty entitled, ‘All intelligent people are dead and we're feeling sick ourselves.’”

“A little bird told me what kind of a lawyer your father is.”
“What did it say?”
“Cheep, cheep!”
“Well, a little duck told me what kind of a doctor your father is.”

“How do you know he isn't a college man?”
“Well, for one thing, he reads ‘College Humor.’”

Fresh—“This is not a Christmas tree, it’s a kerosene lamp.”
Soph—“That's all right; I told you to trim the wick.”
Fresh—“Well, where in thunder are the decorations?”

“I think that bashful young Pinkney boy is out on the porch, daughter.”
“But Father, I didn’t hear the bell ring.”
“Neither did I, but I heard his knees knock.”

“Have you ever heard the trio song?”
“No, what is it?”
“‘Trio clock in the morning.’”

Roses are red,
Violets are blue,
But they're too expensive
For a girl like you.

Another good test of blood pressure is to watch the man who owes you money be liberal with it.

The flapper’s idea of where heaven is located—Great Neck, L. I.

He—“Meet the wife.”
Him—“Your wife?”
He—“Nope, her husband’s.”

Waiter—“How’s the steak?”
Customer—“Fine.”
Waiter—“Darn it, I guess I gave you the manager's.”

Fortune Teller—“Youthree times.”
Movie Actress: “I want my future, not my past.”

GIN—MADE FRESH TODAY
“I hate to kill this liquor—while it’s so young.”

“I feel like a piano.”
“Upright?”
“No, baby, Grand.”

“Mother, that three-legged man tried to kiss me at the circus today.”
“Daughter, I told you to beware of strange men.”

“Have a good time during the holidays?”
“Well, for the first week. You see, I put a ‘Not To Be Opened Until Christmas’ seal on the letter
the Dean wrote home.”

“Oi, Abie, your watch fell into the gutter out!”
“Leave it be, Benny. We Harvard men gotta uphold the traditions of indifference.”

“Pa, what are the kind of girls that men forget?”
“Dead ones, son.”

Reggie wears an English cap, Mabel wears her pearls so rare, Mother wears her Hudson Wrap, Father wears the cellar
stairs.

May—“He certainly is a nice boy but he knows the worst songs.”
Kae—“Does he sing them to you?”
Mae—“No! He just whistles the tunes.”

“Now wouldn't that knock you cold?”
“What?”
“A hundred pounds of ice.”

“Who was that lady I seen you with last night?”
“There wasn’t any scene.”

Mountaineer Club in First Meeting
The West Virginia Club had its first meeting of the year Tuesday night, February 19th, in the Beta Theta Pi
Hall. The visitors who met with the club were Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglas, Mrs. Wood, Dr. and Mrs.
Arbuckle, and Adele Arbuckle. The main purpose of the West Virginia Club is to get more men from West Virginia
to come to Davidson. After a very elaborate feed, Dr. Arbuckle and Dr. Douglas made very interesting talks and offered
some helpful suggestions as to the best way to interest West Virginia men in Davidson. At the close of the
evening, new officers were chosen for the coming year. F. F. Hudgins was elected to succeed Jim Pinkney as president;
Witt Hancock was made vice-president, and Howard Arbuckle, secretary and treasurer. After a most enjoyable evening, the club made its
presence felt on the campus with a few lusty yells. The members of the West Virginia Club are: Roland Kauffelt,
Pinkney, Wilson, Kuykendall, McGee, Zimmerman, W. A. Alexander, Hancock, Hudgins, Goodykontz, Salter, McAlpine, McClaugherty, Arbuckle, St. Clair, Herriott, Ballard, and
Dickinson.

The Library Committee, Dr. Shewmake, chairman, met last week and arranged a fairly large list of new books for the
library. These have been ordered, and soon will be on file. The greater portion are departmental books, but several new
novels have been included. The following periodicals were added to those now in the reading room: Economic Geography, Intercollegiate World,
Monthly Weather Bureau, Genetics, Natural History.

YOU’LL ALWAYS FIND A GOOD SHOW AT THE VICTORY THEATRE MOORESVILLE, N. C. WEEKLY PROGRAMME

Fri. and Sat., Feb. 19-20—“Fighting Youth,” with William Fairbanks and Pauline Garon and an Our Gang comedy, “High Society.”
Mon. and Tues., Feb. 22-23—“Little Annie Rooney,” with Mary Pickford. Also Pathe News.
Wed. and Thurs., Feb. 24-25—“Go West,” with Buster Keaton. Also comedy, “Busts Into Business.”
Fri. and Sat., Feb. 26-27—“Sally,” with Colleen Moore. Most wonderful comedy drama on the screen. Comedy, “Going Great.” Coming soon,
“Graustark.”

MODERNLY EQUIPPED “FRED’S” RECREATION HALL BILLIARDS 205 West Trade Street (upstairs) Meet your friends here and make this your club
when in Charlotte MORALLY CONDUCTED

DON’T FORGET TO REMEMBER that we handle one of the finest brands of candy on the market—HOLLINGSWORTH’S WHITE DRUG COMPANY

New Stetson Hats at Efird’s $8.00 and $9.00 Both the youthful snap-brim and the more dressy roll-brim shape may be
had with bound or welt edge—in a colorful array of rich new shades. Stetson quality—an assurance of excellence. MEN’S SECTION
HOME OF FASHION PARK CLOTHES STREET FLOOR
