THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1926

Tryouts for George Washington Debate to be Held November 9

The tryouts for the debates with V. P. I. and George Washington will be held November 9th at 8:30. They
will be delivered in Shearer Hall. From a large field of competitors that have already signified their intention of trying
out, two men will be chosen to represent Davidson against both George Washington and V. P. I. There will be
five faculty judges. Either side of the query may be used in the tryouts.

The forensic council has recently completed all arrangements for these two debates. The V. P. I. debate will be held
at V. P. I. on Friday night, December 10th. The team will then return to Charlotte and debate George Washington
on the night of December 13th at Queens College. Davidson will have the negative side in both debates. The subject
is: “Resolved, That the Volstead Act should be modified to include light wines and beer.”

The men that have already signified their intention of trying out are: H. T. Powell, L. M. McCutchen, C. G.
Davis, R. A. Grady, L. K. Pritchett, R. Wallace, and W. K. Pritchett. Others will likely be prepared by the
night of the tryouts. These are urged to turn their names in to Henry Powell in 201 West.

QUEENS GLEE CLUB
(Continued from page 1)

and will also be presented on Stunt Night. As the glee club has charge of the performance on Stunt Night,
many attractions have been arranged. The Dramatic Club will present a one-act play written by local talent, under the direction
of Prof. E. J. Erwin. The receipts from the entertainment will be used to help pay off the debt of
the glee club.

SENIOR BIOGRAPHIES

All seniors are hereby urged again to deposit their biography or senior write-up for the 1927 Quips and Cranks in
the annual box in the lobby of Georgia Dormitory. As announced in the regular class meeting, each senior is responsible
for his own biography being turned in to the annual staff. Each is urged, however, to secure some friend to
write him up. The biographies should be approximately one hundred and fifty words in length, which is considerably longer than
heretofore used in Davidson annuals. This is made possible by appropriating more space than usual to the senior class. It
is the desire of the annual staff to have these biographies of more than the usual interest. Originality in approach
of the subject and observation of the idiosyncrasies of the subject on the part of those writing is greatly desired.

DON WHARTON, Editor.

Annual Fraternity Bid Day to be Held Friday

“Y” Column

HELP THE TEAM

The students are asked to refrain from going out on the athletic field and playing around with the extra footballs.
This practice detracts from the team’s efficiency and is very annoying to the coaches as well. Stick behind the team
and help in this way to win the State pennant this year!

1927 NORRIS TROPHY
(Continued from page 1)

In the absence of the ex-officio chairman, the director of athletics shall preside at all meetings of the committee. The
alumni secretary shall act as secretary to the committee and shall keep a record of all proceedings.

2. To be eligible for the trophy, the prospective recipient must have attained a passing grade on at least 75
percent of his scholastic work carried on during the year.

3. The winner shall be determined by a popular vote of the student body in a primary election to be
held during the first part of April, and in a final election to be held at the same time and
place that balloting occurs for the election of officers of the student government.

4. The three men receiving the highest number of votes in the primary election shall be considered as candidates for
the trophy and shall enter the final election to be held simultaneously with the election of officers of the student
government, as provided above.

5. Each regularly enrolled student of the college may vote once for the candidate of his choice in the primary
by writing said candidate’s name on the ballot prepared for that purpose and depositing the same in the ballot box;
but after the field of candidates has been narrowed to three by the primary, only the three men receiving the
highest number of votes shall be considered in the final election.

6. Ballots for the final election shall carry the names of the three candidates. Each student shall indicate his choice
by a cross-mark (X) after the name of the candidate for whom he elects to vote.

7. Balloting in both the primary and the final election shall be conducted by representatives of the Norris Athletic committee.
Immediately after the primary, the committee shall determine by a count the three candidates to enter the final election. Their
names shall be published in the student newspaper, The Davidsonian, and shall be posted on all college bulletin boards.

8. If the three men receiving the highest number of votes in the primary are below the scholastic standard adopted,
the committee may substitute the name of the next highest men whose scholarship work meets the requirements. In determining the
scholastic standard of a student, the committee shall be guided by the records on file in the registrar’s office.

9. All expenses incurred in holding both the primary and the final elections, such as printing the ballots, etc., shall
be borne by the Davidson Athletic Association.

Every minute $1104 worth of property is consumed by fire and every day 42 persons are burned to death with
46 injured. Be careful and help stop this awful waste.

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr.
Insurance Department
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

This Hotel is Yours to use for all FEEDS AND BANQUETS no matter how large or how small. Regular board---reasonable---and
the best your money can buy. Music in the evenings.

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The regular fall meeting of the “Y” Conference in Milwaukee, Minn., lasting an extremely valuable group of meetings with discussion
of the problems of their publication. A spectacular address by Mr. W. O. Saunders, editor of the “Y” house-party, planned
for the 13th of this month, let Jim Appleby know at once. Don’t neglect to do this.

Eight National and Three Local Chapters to Extend Bids to Freshmen

Annual bid day of the social fraternities will take place Friday, November 5th. This date...is exactly a month earlier than
bid day last year. The Pan Hellenic Council has made this change in the date for several reasons. The college
authorities granted permission for this change in date because the scholastic reports of the freshmen can be obtained from their
first month grades. Heretofore it has been necessary to postpone bid day till after Thanksgiving when the mid-semester reports are
registered, in order to verify the eligibility of freshmen.

Dr. Ben Lacy will begin a series of meetings. He will have charge of the morning worship at the college
church and the vesper service in the evening on Sunday, and he will also conduct a meeting each evening through
Wednesday. The college quartet will assist Dr. Lacy in these services and plans are made to get somebody from the
outside to lead the singing as the “Y” was unable to secure a quartet from one of the seminaries as
has been the custom in former years. Interviews with Dr. Lacy are to be arranged and those desiring appointments are
asked to hand their names in to Bill Covington. These interviews will be held in the room on the left
of the “Y” hall, making a very pleasant place for such conferences.

A shorter rushing season is advantageous not only to the freshmen but to the upperclassmen because of the fact that
rushing is expensive and requires a good deal of extra time of the fraternity members, as well as keeping the
freshmen more or less disorganized.

There is to be a National Students’ convention from December 28 to January 1. This is and the “Y” officials
hope to send a delegate, representing the local organization of the Y. M.C. A. Davidson was represented at the convention
by ten delegates, constituting the largest delegation at the conference. The Davidson delegates included: Harllee Branch, Boyce Martin, Ed. Douglass,
and Martin Crawford, for The Davidsonian; H. M. Austin, Eugene Witherspoon, and W. S. Woods, for The Chameleon; and Don
Wharton, C. W. Williams, for Quips and Cranks, and Vernon Broyles, who is vice-president of the association.

In addition to the house-party planned for Home-coming Day, the “Y” will have These will be in the nature of
small receptions, for which more definite plans will be announced later.

Some very generous gifts have been received from the people of the town and the “Y” wishes to thank those
persons most kindly for the interest displayed in the work of the Y. M. C. A. A little pamphlet entitled
“Every Man’s Life a Plan of God,” the author closes with a short sentence that is a remarkable sermon in
itself and one that would be of profit for us to examine. He says: “Understand also that the great question
here is not what you will get, but what you will become. The greatest wealth you can ever get will
be in yourself.” Would we not do well to ponder a little over that short phrase, and attempt to apply
it to our life here in college?

In line with the references to prayer made in this column heretofore, the National Council of the Y. M. C.
A. announces a nation-wide Week of Prayer, November 14th to November 20. The Davidson “Y” hopes to enter heartily in
this movement and encourage all to avail themselves of this way to a closer friendship with God.

COLLEGE JOURNALISTS (Continued from page 1)

The collegiate journalists listened to a speech by Mr. Saunders, editor of the Elizabeth City Independent. Mr. Saunders urged more
college writers to enter the field of country journalism, declaring that young editors are finding a fertile field for the
expression of original and independent ideas in the rural sections. “The country journals are being crowded to the wall by
the big metropolitan dailies,” declared Mr. Saunders, “but if you are looking for a field in which you can say
what you please, like you please, and when you please, you will enter the rural communities, where there is a
need for independent editors. There an editor is able to keep a continual check on the pulse of his people,
to know his readers intimately, and to write without fear of consequences.”

Following Mr. Saunders’ address, the delegates adjourned to the home of the president of Salem College, where they were honor
guests at an informal reception. This was followed by a theater party at one of Winston-Salem’s largest vaudeville houses. The
Friday sessions of the convention were featured by open-forum discussions of the problems of the publications, reports from the delegates,
and other routine business. In the afternoon the delegates were shown about the city in cars furnished by interested residents.
A banquet at the Forsyth Country Club occupied the Friday evening session of the conclave. The convention closed at noon
Saturday, following an all-morning session at which the delegates were permitted to continue their discussions.
