6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1926

DAVIDSON PROFESSOR GIVES TALK AT SUNDAY VESPERS

Prof. Archie Currie addressed the students at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service last Sunday evening on the subject of “Indifference to Duty.” He took as his text a part of Ezekiel 8:16: “And behold, at the door of the temple of the Lord between the porch and the altar, were about five and twenty men, with their backs toward the temple of the Lord, and their faces toward the east; and they were worshipping the sun in the east.”

“These men,” said Professor Currie, “represent an attitude of mind. They were evidently leaders of the people who had doubtless grown tired of the abstract forms of worship, and, becoming indifferent to their duty and responsibility as leaders, had turned to idolatry.”

By illustrations, Professor Currie showed that this same attitude of indifference is prevalent in America today. First, he referred to the report of a crime investigation undertaken by the University of Chicago in that “crime capital of the world.” The report showed that there are 1,331 different criminal gangs in the city. They have divided Chicago into geographical areas, each gang working in its own territory, their object in doing this being to study crime: the best ways of carrying it out and of covering it up. The report offered two explanations of this situation. First, that the gangs are permitted to exist by politicians who need their support; and second, that the blame really rests on the good citizens of Chicago, the leaders of the people in Chicago because of their indifference to their civic responsibility and civic duty, who, by refusing to vote and to serve as jurors, are standing with their backs toward the temple of duty.

The second illustration used was a speech delivered by Attorney General Sargent before the U. S. Bar Association some weeks ago. By a very logical process of reasoning, Sargent proved that the blame for violation of the prohibition laws rests upon certain leaders of the people more than upon the common bootlegger. In this case also, it is the leaders of the people who “have turned their backs upon the temple of duty and are worshipping the sun in the east.”

Then bringing the question nearer home, Professor Currie showed that the violation of game laws, traffic laws, speed laws, etc., are adding to the crime wave just as well as the violation of laws of a more serious nature. “It is not a question of whether or not the law is a good one,” he said. “The point is that so long as it is on the statute books it should not be violated. Will you, as college men, the future leaders of the people, stand with your backs to the temple of duty? If so, our land will continue to be filled with violence and the end no man can see. Unless men become more attentive to their religious, social, and civic duties, then this precarious civilization in which we live is doomed to destruction.”

W. H. Branch, Jr., was in charge of the meeting and introduced the speaker.

Metrophilian Society

The regular meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society was held last Thursday night in Phi Hall. A very good attendance and a heated debate made this one of the biggest meetings of the year. The subject was “Resolved, That Russia should be recognized by the United States Government.” W. T. Covington and P. Thrower upheld the affirmative, while J. M. Andrew and M. C. O'Neal pleaded the negative. At the conclusion of the debate, the society voted in favor of the negative.

There is such a thing as carrying this warm weather stuff too far, but you'd hardly make a mistake with one of these spring weight flannels. We might add that they’re good for right now, mid-summer, and next fall---and mighty good to look at either time. Another thing in your favor, many of them have two pairs of trousers. And still another thing, they’re not expensive.

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Literary Societies

International Relations Club Initiates Four Men

Austin, Bordeaux, Dillard, and Howard Are Initiated

The annual initiation of the International Relations Club was held Friday night in the Honorary Fraternity Hall. A very elaborate initiation ceremony was held, after which a bountiful feed of sandwiches, punch, ice cream, and cake was enjoyed by the members. The four men initiated were H. M. Austin and W. H. Bordeaux, of the Junior Class, and A. T. Dillard and D. H. Howard, of the Sophomore class. These men have all taken an active part in campus activities. Austin is editor of the Magazine and a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, and Omega Phi Alpha Honorary Fraternities, and also an honor roll man. Bordeaux is also an honor roll man and a member of the Pandeinie Literary Society. Dillard is a member of the Dramatic Club, the Glee Club, and is a debater. Howard, during his two years at Davidson, has been the outstanding student of his class, making the honor roll both years. He is a member of the Glee Club and the Pyramid Club. The International Relations Club has just completed one of the most successful years in its history and these men are to be congratulated upon their membership in it.

Phi Beta Kappa is Placed at School in South Carolina

On Thursday, April 8, the South Carolina Alpha Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa was installed at the University of South Carolina. Dr. T. W. Lingle and Prof. W. W. Wood were the official representatives of the Davidson chapter. They were accompanied unofficially by Harry Shaw, the Senior class president. Dr. Lingle and Professor Wood were also chosen to represent Davidson at a meeting of all the chapters between Maryland and Florida, which will be held soon to consider which colleges will be next in order for chapters of Phi Beta Kappa. No more charters will be granted until the Triennial meeting to be held in 1928, but the colleges which will be given charters then will be determined at this next meeting. Professor Wood was appointed to serve as secretary at the meeting of the chapters of the South Atlantic States.

Several former Davidson men were taken in at the meeting recently held at the University of South Carolina. Among them were: J. M. McFadden, J. P. Caldwell, and Dr. W. B. Burney. Mr. McFadden graduated here in 1922. He is coaching at South Carolina now and graduates there in law this year. Mr. Caldwell, who was at Davidson from ‘21 to '23, is a senior in the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of South Carolina this year. Dr. Burney, Davidson, 1875, is now head of the Department of Chemistry at South Carolina.

Because of the close relations existing between Davidson and the University of South Carolina, the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa has been very anxious and has worked very hard toward getting the South Carolina Alpha chapter established. Most of the leading colleges of the country now have chapters of Phi Beta Kappa. The local chapter has been established only a few years, but in these few years it has added the names of many good men to the roll of the fraternity.

New York University is sponsoring an “Around the World College” as a part of its regular course. Certain species of bamboo grow more than three feet in 24 hours.The debate, the judges unanimously rendered the decision in favor of the negative. This, Dewitt Helm gave an oration on a biblical poem. The latter part of the program was taken up in the discussion of business and in the election of the marshals for commencement. Roland Sims and W. T. Covington were chosen on the final ballot to represent the society. Dan Currie, as critic, discussed the program, after which the society was adjourned.

Eumenean Society. At the Eumenean Society Thursday night, the query for debate was, “Resolved, That the United States should recognize the Soviet government of Russia.” The affirmative was upheld by R. Lake and J. Willard, and the negative by F. L. Smith and T. Peer. The decision of the judges was in favor of the affirmative but the house gave the decision to the negative. R. F. Kell gave a short discussion of Current Events. Following the program, the election of officers was held with the following men being elected: President, W. A. Christian; vice-president, R. A. Miller; secretary, R. Lake; treasurer, R. O. Flinn; critic, T. G. McCutchen.

Pandeinic Society. The Pandeinic Literary Society held its usual weekly meeting last Thursday night in Eu hall. The devotional exercises were led by L. L. Deck. The query for debate was, “Resolved, That Russia should be recognized by the United States government.” W. E. Deck and T. E. Hill, defending the negative, received the decision of the judges. The affirmative was ably defended by L. I. Moore. R. H. Mellwaine delivered an oration on “Personality,” and C. R. McCarty gave a review of Current Events. After a short business session, the society adjourned.

Philanthropic Society. The regular meeting of the Phi Society was held last Thursday night. The debate for the evening was, “Resolved, that compulsory church attendance should be continued at Davidson College,” with N. A. Brown and B. F. Brown upholding the affirmative, and C. N. Mauzy and I. Wadsworth the negative. Some very good arguments were advanced by each side, but a vote of the house gave the decision to the negative.

New Courses to be Offered in 1926-27. Although the new catalogues have not left the press, the following courses have been announced by the registrar, Mr. Hengeveld. Two new courses in Bible will be offered. Bible 4 will deal with church history and government, and Bible 5 with the Ethical Teaching in the New Testament. The new courses offered in Biology, which will be called Biology 4, 5, and 6, will be courses in Botany, Genetics, and Histology. The only new course in Political Science will be Political Science 3, dealing with government. An entirely new course will be established next semester and will be taught by Mr. Williams, who was secretary of the “Y” last year. This course will be a course in Business Management. English Prose for the 18th century will be known as English 7. Scientific German will take the place of German 3. The courses of Geology 1, 2, and 3, will be general, physical, and commercial. The Physics courses offered will be: A, Elementary Physics; 1, General Physics; 2, Electricity; 3, Alternating Current; 4, Light and Magnetism; and 5, Heat and Sound. In the Psychology department, which will be under Dr. Hood, who will return from Europe this summer, will be: 1, Elementary Psychology; 2, Social Psychology; 3, Genetic and Abnormal Psychology; 4, Logic; 5, Business and Experimental Psychology.

A negro woman recently committed suicide in Birmingham. It was the first case of such a suicide in 19 years.

New Cabinet Announced and Officers Installed During Vesper Services. Dr. Arbuckle, Hollingsworth, and Christian Deliver Charges to New Officials. At the meeting of the Y. M. C. A. on April 11, the new cabinet was announced and the officers installed. The old cabinet was called to the front and commended for its work. Speeches were given by A. H. Hollingsworth, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, and W. A. Christian. After the two cabinets had been called to the front, a talk was made by the retiring president, A. H. Hollingsworth, concerning the work that the Y. M. C. A. does, and its high object. Dr. Arbuckle, chairman of the Board of Control, followed this with an address telling of the work that the “Y” has done in the past. He pointed out that it is the great upholder of the spiritual life of the campus and the members of the cabinet, as the leaders, were responsible for this spiritual life. Dr. Arbuckle thus gave the charge to the new cabinet. W. A. Christian, the newly elected president, concluded the program with an address in which he commended the achievements of the old cabinet as the best that he had heard of on the campus, calling to mind that they had been most active in all phases of the “Y” work. Having discussed the work and the responsibility it would require to uphold this record, he then charged the new cabinet to equal this work and, if possible, to surpass it. In conclusion, the president called upon each individual member of the student body to support the work, for, otherwise, any efforts of the cabinet would be fruitless.

The arrangements to camp out during one of the first weekends in May and will discuss plans for the coming year. A. M. Hillhouse will not be back next year and a secretary is being sought. The plans for next year will also bring the “Y” hall into more service as a social center. The newly installed cabinet was appointed by the president a few days ago and is chosen from the leaders of the religious life of the campus. The officers for 1926-27 are as follows: W. A. Christian, president; J. S. Foster, vice-president; Boyce Martin, secretary. The members of the cabinet are: V. S. Broyles, entertainment; W. T. Covington, personal work; C. G. Davis, Sunday Schools; J. S. Foster, music; H. G. Goodykoontz, boys’ work; J. W. Keerans, self-help; Boyce Martin, attendance; J. A. McAlpine, mission study; L. M. McCutcheon, Bible study; R. I. McIlwaine, mission fund; G. R. Sims, community work; D. H. Stewart, weekly meetings; L. D. Wharton, handbook.

The flag of Denmark is the oldest unaltered flag in existence, dating back to 1219.

Pressing Business! Yes, that’s us, but we have plenty of time to do yours and we clean and press ‘em right. Buy a ticket and save the difference. Proprietors: Tex Tilson and Monk Mattox. Representatives: Bohannon, Leggett, Woodham.

College Jewelry, Watches and Clocks, Eversharp Pencils, Stationery, Parker Fountain Pens, Pennants and Pillows, Athletic Supplies, Bradley Sweaters. W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Phone 3486, 221 West Trade Street. THE PRINCESS CAFE FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN. The Up-to-date and Sanitary Place to Eat. Open Day and Night. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Visit Our New Fountain When in Charlotte. Tryon Drug Co. Hollingsworth, Nunnally, Whitman Candies.

INSURANCE. We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price of not carrying it. Insurance Department. McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13) Independence Trust Co. Charlotte, N.C.