THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 30, 1926

As announced in the first issue of the Davidsonian, there will be given away, each week, two prizes for the
best two definitions of a selected word, the word to be announced one week in advance. First prize consisting of
two roasted peanuts was won this week by Mr. Bobbie Glenn, of Gastonia, the word being "love." When congratulated on
his success, Mr. Glenn very modestly admitted that his varied experience in the field of romance had insured his success
in the contest. Read below the prize-winning definition: "Love is something that every pretty girl has, that every grass widow
wants, and that no old maid can get." (Editor’s note: Mr. Glenn seemed to enjoy the roasted peanuts).

Not an Ass at Any Rate

Neighbor—"You seem to be happy this morning."

Professor—"Yeah, my wife almost called me dear this morning."

Neighbor—"What did she say?"

Professor—"She said, 'Now you old kangaroo, you better not forget that book I told you to bring.'"

H. M. Austin has recently released a modernistic short story bearing the title, "I may be from Texas but you
can’t steer me."

The second prize of one raw peanut was won by a local boy, Hayne Henderson, Jr. We hope the fact
that Mr. Henderson is a local boy will not lead to any prejudice on the part of any disappointed contestants.
We felt that this definition came from the very heart of this young Romeo, whereas the others seemed to be
the thoughts of ancient philosophers. We think this definition will meet the approval of certain upperclassmen and professors.

She—"I'll give you to understand, young man, that I'm old enough not to be a fool. You must think I’m
just a kid."

He—"Oh, no, I knew you were some years older than that."

The berouged flapper took her seat in the barber's chair.

"What shall it be," asked the barber.

"Shingle—high up," replied the flapper.

"She needs a shingle all right, but it shouldn’t be applied so high up," sniffed the old-fashioned man.

"Love, love, love, is a mighty dizziness; It won’t let college boys tend to their business."

Rip Van Winkle (after his sleep)—"Who was that lady I seen you with last night?"

Townsman—"Last night! Wake up man, that was twenty years ago."

Next Week’s Contest

Come on in boys, it’s lots of fun. You may be the lucky one. The words will be chosen from
various fields in order to give everyone an opportunity to display his skill. Come on, you glee stabbers and you
musicians "of note"—here’s your chance. The word for next week is "Saxophone." Turn in your definitions early and gain recognition.

Then They Carried Him Out

Here lies Reuben Weatherbee,
Poor misguided dub;
He quoted Mencken's Mercury
At the Rotary Club.

Our idea of a lazy guy is one that sticks his head in the washing machine to keep from washing
his neck.

Several Men Added

New acquaintance at dance—"Why, don't let the boys hold my hands."

Bud Guthrie—"Fine! I never did believe in fooling away time with preliminaries either; when can I come to see you?"

1926, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

List this under ‘Major Sports’

THERE’S no other sport on the calendar to compare with smoking a jimmy-pipe packed with P. A. Indoors and out.
Any season. You win even when you draw, if you get what we mean. And how you will draw, once
you know the wonderful taste of Prince Albert! Cool as an over-cut notice from the dean. Sweet as the thoughts
of a holiday. Fragrant as woodland flowers after a spring shower. P. A. never bites your tongue or parches your
throat. The PrinceAlbert process see that the day P. A. matriculated. Come out for this major sport. Get yourself a
tidy red tin at that nearby smoke-shop where they hand out P. A. sunshine. You and Prince Albert are going
to be great buddies right from the start. Because there just never was another tobacco like Prince Albert! PRINCE ALBERT—no
other tobacco is like it! P.A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, half-pound and one-pound tin humidors, and pound
crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.

Cue to Jazz Orchestra

The following composition was written by a fifth-grade pupil. Would you believe such intelligence could exist outside of college?

“The cow is a four-legged quadruped that walks on four feet. It has a contented disposition, and although she’s a
big pet she is never very wild. The cow is very useful both when dead and when alive. We get
milk, cheese, and ice cream from live cows. Also dairy products. When she’s dead they sell her hide for its
value as a food, called steak, and her flesh is widely known as the chief ingredient of chicken salad.”

The Jazz Orchestra, with the addition of several new members, has been holding daily practices for the last week, and
all indications point to a successful year. “Tootie” Crayton, who was well known on the campus last year as a
saxophonist of exceptional merit, and as director of the orchestra, will be greatly missed this year. The orchestra has been
fortunate, however, in securing the services of several new men of talent. Gordon McSwain is playing trombone; Brown McQueen, alto
saxophone; Knox Poole, helicon; Paul Frye, piano; and Charley Orr, violin.

The following old men are filling their places again this year: Charley Albright, banjo; Owen Ceer, trumpet; Billy Wilson, alto
saxophone; Raymond Walters, tenor saxophone; Bob McConnell, drums. As usual, the Jazz Orchestra will function as a part of the
Davidson College Glee Club and appear on whatever programs that organization may present. Drummer McConnell will now favor us with
the latest jazz hit, “Great Britain is master of the waves, but France controls the permanent.”

Bill Covington—“These flies should be called the ‘arithmetic breed.’”
Roommate—“Why’s that?”
Bill—“Because they add to my misery, they subtract from my pleasures, they divide my attention, and my! how they do
multiply.”

BOYCE MARTIN SELECTED

The orchestra is under the direction of Charley Albright this year.

Paradise Lost

Two little coons on the bridge a sittin’,
Two little bones back and forth a flittin’,
Hole in the plank where a knot was missin’
Par-a-dice lost.

(Continued from page 1)

will be from Thursday, March 1st, to Tuesday, April 5th, and will probably open on Thursday night with a Glee
Club performance as heretofore and close on Tuesday with the final dance at Charlotte. Saturday night will be reserved for
the annual carnival in the gymnasium. The editor of Sanity Rare, the humorous publication which is put out as an
aid to the program, has not been appointed yet but his place will be filled at an early date by
the program chairman and work will start immediately on its production.

Not So Poetic

Brand—“What did the English professor say about the prose composition you handed in the other day?”
Broyles—“He said it was bad but could have been ‘verse.’”

Just because her father is a nice man is no sign that she’s an ice girl.

Please come in and examine our fine line of Stationery.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.

Glad to serve you every day and Sunday, too.

SANITARY CAFE
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

To the new students coming for the first time, and to the old ones returning, we extend a hearty welcome.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Adler Collegian and Campus Togs
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

The VOGUE
The Shop For Men
15 East Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Exclusive Agents For
THE FAMOUS SELZ SHOES
