THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 16, 1926

Best in Winter

I met a gay maiden in Thanet,
Her name I believe was Janet,
And tho the sun freezes
We'll still need cool breezes
While Janet remains on this planet.

“What color bathing suit was Estelle wearing?”
“I couldn’t see, she was reading a book.”

Our latest news from the Navy:
Britain controls the waves.
the ‘“‘Permanent.”...
But Paris is master of

Only Seven Colleges in Southeastern States Receive Rating

Davidson Military Unit Awarded Distinct Honor by Government Officials
Davidson Only College in North Carolina to Receive Such an Honor

RECORD ENROLLMENT

WE DO Cleaning and Pressing Better
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Tex Tilson
STUDENTS’ PRESSING CLUB
“Monk” Mattox

Stevens Electric Co.
For things electrical necessary to your fraternity home in your efforts to make it more modern.

Last spring Davidson was awarded the War Department distinguished college rating in close competition with other colleges maintaining R. O. T. C. units, such as Georgia Tech, Georgia, and Auburn, Alabama. This makes Davidson the only college in North Carolina with the distinguished rating.

What the college derives from this distinguished rating is special consideration by higher military authority, the privilege of having two honor members of the R. O. T. C. receive commissions in the regular army if they are physically fit, and the consciousness of being rated high for its military accomplishments. Every effort is being made this year to win again this distinction against even stronger competition than before. The battalion is commanded by Cadet Major G. R. Sims, who has for his adjutant, Cadet Captain K. V. Woodham. Company A is commanded by Cadet First Lieutenant R. A. Brand, Jr.; Company B by Cadet Captain V. S. Broyles; Company C by Cadet Captain W. O. Green, and Company D by Cadet Captain W. O. Pucket. Cadet Captain T. L. Short is Battalion Personnel Officer and a member of Major Sims’ staff.

There are only seven colleges in the southeastern area, comprising the Fourth Corps Area, that have been so fortunate and worthy of obtaining such a distinction. Practically all of the other colleges so rated are either strictly military schools, or else are large colleges with an enrollment of from two to three thousand students, with about a thousand or fifteen hundred students taking the basic and advanced military training. The R. O. T. C. units in the various schools of the country have said that it is the first time, to his knowledge, that a denominational school such as Davidson has won this honor. This distinction will mean much to Davidson not only from a military point of view, but also from the publicity which it will receive from the fact that it has received the distinguished rating. The school will receive special consideration from the higher military authorities by its rank as a distinguished college and will aid the school in a number of ways. The value such an honor will mean to the military department and its leaders. Much interest has already been evidenced in the honor received, and this is shown by the fact that more students are enrolled in the military classes, both basic and advanced, than ever before in the history of the unit here. Especially is this interest noted in advanced classes of R. O. T. C., since these are entirely optional, no student being required to take more than two years of this course.

New Court Changes Cap For Incoming Freshmen
Caps Changed to Red With Black “D”—Placards Also Changed

Under the able direction of “Abe” Lincoln, the Court of Control appointed for the term of 1926-27 is fast rounding the new class of freshmen into shape, and fitting them into life at Old Davidson. The court has not had any cases up before it yet, but has made a change in the fresh caps. Instead of the striking like-mind of Jesus.

These new members and the increased facilities in all departments promise one of the most successful years Davidson has ever experienced.

Foreman Speaks at ‘Y’ Vesper Services Sunday
“Christ, the Radical” Used as Theme for Opening Service

Prof. Kenneth J. Foreman, who is professor of Bible and Philosophy, delivered the first sermon before the Y. M. C. A. He used as a subject, “Christ, the Radical,” and chose as his text, “We share the mind of Jesus.” Although not a super-radical, Christ went beneath the surface, and firmly took root Himself. As an introductory question, Professor Foreman asked, “What is college for?” After giving many suggestions, he presented asThe fundamental reason the freshman placards and also in the ness of the average freshman which has been placed on the placards heretofore, the court has had a large green “F” printed in the middle of the card, with the freshman regulations printed on it. The regulations are the same as have been enforced in past years, but the new plan gives them a more striking and probably a more appropriate appearance. The new caps are designed to fit the head a little better and have a little more material than the “skull” caps formerly used. The crowns of the new caps, instead of being made with strips of black and red, are solid red, while the brims are solid black. According to Captain John Elkins, who is quite an authority on the conditions of men to work on the athletic field, most familiar, he might learn the love of Christ and be filled with the spirit. The court has also started the fresh- men on the bleachers which are to be put up. They have been brought out and should be in shape in a short while. The members of the 1926-27 court are: T. H. Anderson, R. S. Wilson, Juniors—Caldwell Withers (one vacancy). Sophomores—E. R. Kane, M. M. King. Seniors—R. L. Lincoln, Judge. C. C. Murchison.

TRUSTEES ADD EIGHT (Continued from page 1)

Henderson has spent some 12-15 years in successful college work. The last few years that he taught were spent in James Millikin University. Prof. David R. teacher of Public is a graduate of and also took his post-graduate work there. For the last few years, he has been a professor at Monmouth College. To the French department has been added Mr. George B. Watts, who has been teaching for several years at the University of Minnesota. Professor Watts was graduated from Dartmouth and studied later at Harvard and the University of Minnesota. During the past summer, he traveled and studied in Europe. Prof. C. K. Brown, formerly in the Mathematics department here, and himself a graduate of Davidson, is returning to teach Economics. Professor Brown is also a graduate student of the University of N. C., where he has been studying for the past year. Mr. John P. Williams will teach Business Administration and Accounting here this year. Mr. Williams is a graduate of Davidson and New York University, and for the past year has been a student in the Bureau of Municipal Research of New York and Columbia University. For two years Mr. Williams served as Y. M. C. A. secretary at Davidson and is known to a number of the upperclassmen. All are valuable additions to the faculty.

Prof. McGrew will be the new Speaking and Debate instructor. He is a graduate of Northwestern University. 

In every fact, that college is life there are two types of thinkers. One is radical; one is conservative. Jesus lived among hundreds of new ideas. Yet He accepted them. On the other hand, He did not overthrow things because they were old. He always honored the sects and new organizations. To prove the radical, Prof. Christ saw beneath the surface and saw the good in plain fishermen. He could also see the bad in the Pharisees. Turning to a practical example, the speaker said, “a tree that is to stand must have its roots deep in the ground. Accordingly, it is necessary for us to have conviction. To have power, there must be a fixed point—a fulcrum. That fulcrum is our belief. Two of the facts that Jesus possessed were faith in God and faith in man. He set his roots deep in order that he might learn the love of Christ and be filled with the spirit.”

Sign reads, “new kitchen staff composed of Allen, Pinkney, and Link.”

At Davidson, last Sunday night delivered the talk centered upon the argument that Christ was a radical. He showed this by pointing out that Christ was a radical in that He saw beneath the surface. Finally, he pointed out that, although Christ had some of the qualities of both, he was in reality a radical. Foreman pointed out that Christ saw beneath the surface and saw the good in plain fishermen. He could also see the bad in the Pharisees. Turning to a practical example, the speaker said, “a tree that is to stand must have its roots deep in the ground. Accordingly, it is necessary for us to have conviction. To have power, there must be a fixed point—a fulcrum. That fulcrum is our belief. Two of the facts that Jesus possessed were faith in God and faith in man. He set his roots deep in order that he might learn the love of Christ and be filled with the spirit.”

Brady Printing Company

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see VERNON S. BROYLES. QUICK SERVICE, BEST PRICES. Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Bernhart—"That’s a beautiful black eye you’re sporting.”
Wyche—"Yeah, and I'm still looking for the guy that started that ‘silence gives consent’ stuff.”

Aesop told his wife that he had been kept late at the office.
“Now then,” said she, “None of your fables.”

Soph (reading poster)—“Any old man will help you.”
Fresh—“Won't the upper-classmen help, too?”

Statesville PRINTING
College Printers
N. C.

Davidson and have already endeared themselves in the hearts of all the other faculty.