THEDAVIDSONIAN — Devoted to a BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. JANUARY 14, 1926

DAVIDSON'S GREATEST SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED FOR DEBATING TEAM
Teams From Five States Engaged—University of Pittsburgh at Davidson While Wildcats Go to Sewanee—Three Others

In early April the varsity debating team will open the heaviest schedule in the history of the college with a
meet with Wake Forest. Though the above debate is yet pending, it will probably be held in Raleigh on the
1st of April. Following in close order come Pittsburgh at Davidson on the 5th, William and Mary at Davidson on
the 20th, Presbyterian College at Rock Hill on the 27th, and to end up the season, the University of the
South will be met in Sewanee, Tenn., on the 30th.

In arranging such an unusually heavy schedule, the Forensic Council has taken into consideration the fact that seven varsity men
have returned to school besides numerous Sophomores from last year’s Freshman teams. In order that the most worthy of these
may have an opportunity to show their ability, a rather long schedule is necessary.

In meeting Wake Forest in Raleigh, a good meet is promised. Davidson defeated Wake Forest last year in Davidson. The
team was composed of Roland Parker, Yancey Bowie, and Don Wharton, all of whom are back in school this year.
In the University of Pittsburgh, an unknown quantity will be met; however, it is to be assumed that they will
have an excellent team. They will be met in Davidson on the 5th of April. William and Mary will likewise
be met in Davidson on the 20th. Although this is their first appearance on the Davidson card, their renown as
the second oldest college in the country is well known and no doubt competition will be keen.

The next contest, that with Presbyterian College in Rock Hill, will probably be the most sought after by the various
debaters. This debate is to be held at Winthrop College, on neutral grounds. P. C. was defeated here last year
4-1. Perhaps one of the best trips to be made by the debaters will be that to Sewanee, Tenn. On
this trip, the University of the South, otherwise known as Sewanee, will be met for the first time.

Preliminaries for both the varsity teams and the Freshman teams will be held about three weeks after the exams, as
soon as the subjects for debate have been agreed upon.

(Continued on page 5)

All Boxing Meets Barred by Faculty

After careful consideration of the matter, the college authorities have decided that it is inadvisable for the boxing team to
take part in meets with other institutions. This was decided only after the matter had been thoroughly discussed and probed.
Dr. Martin has as yet made no official announcement before the student body, but it is understood that Captain Elkins,
who has been coaching the team, has been informed of this action.

This has been the first year that any attempt has been made to organize a boxing team at Davidson, and
it was hoped that matches could be arranged with other schools. The recent action on the matter has aroused keen
disappointment among the followers of the sport and those who have been arduously working to perfect themselves in the game.
It is hoped by these that their activity may be continued at least as an inter-mural sport. Captain Elkins has
proven himself to be an excellent coach and many of the boys have shown marked ability with the gloves. It
is understood that practice is being continued and it is hoped that some form of match may be arranged so
that the students may be able to see the boys in action.

Covington Elected to Lead Freshmen

In the Freshman election for president of the class, held last Monday night right after supper, J. R. Covington was
elected on the second ballot over I. Kell, Pascagoula, Miss. The race was a very close one, as the vote
will show. The vote was 100 to 96 for Covington. Others nominated were N. Meyers, of Greensboro; I. Riggs McConnell,
of Davidson; R. O. Flynn, of Atlanta; John T. Roddey, of Rock Hill; S. M. Black, of Davidson; G. R.
Graham, Hamlet; S. Williams. All except Covington and Kell were eliminated in the first ballot, and Covington won over Kell
in the second.

Bob Covington is from Raeford, N. C., and is the second of the Covington brothers attending Davidson at this time.
His brother, W. T. Covington, was president of last year’s Sophomore class, and is one of the outstanding men of
the campus. Covington was out for Fresh football all fall, and while he did not win his DC, he fought
for a place on the team every afternoon, and his efforts were rewarded by his getting in several of the
games. He has been one of the outstanding men of his class, and bids fair to achieve further greatness. He
is pledged to the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, while Kell is pledged to the Delta Theta Chi fraternity.

Quips and Cranks Staff Report Great Progress
Work on Year Book Advancing Rapidly—Many Sections Completed

Progress on the 1926 Quips and Cranks, according to Editor-in-Chief H. L. Shaw, is advancing on schedule. With a large
portion of the preliminary material submitted to the engraver before the Christmas holidays and the remainder to be ready in
the near future, the annual staff feels certain that this year the yearbook will appear on May 1st, as has
been planned.

The photographer from White's, of New York, will return the first week in February to take pictures of the basketball
and wrestling teams. Certain other organizations have also been given appointments as well as a number of individuals, Juniors and
Seniors, who failed to have their photographs taken during the fall session.

The literary department of the Quips and Cranks, under the direction of R. W. Graves, and the athletic section, prepared
by L. D. Wharton, have practically completed their portion of the work. Business Manager L. L. Deck reports favorable progress
on the business side of the annual and feels assured of the financial success of the publication.

The Book Lovers’ Club met on Friday afternoon with Miss Kathryne Douglas as hostess. A most interesting feature was a
paper read by Miss Lizzie Young. The Woman’s Auxiliary will hold its annual Praise Service on Thursday evening in the
basement of the church. A most cordial invitation is extended to the girls and women of the church.

Misses Sophie Richards, White, and Mary Hamilton, of Converse College, spent the holidays at the home of their parents. Mr.
Billie White, of the United States Naval Academy, was home for the holidays.

February 16—Furman, at Greenville.

Presentation of Three One-Act Plays Features Friday Night’s Program
One Play Written by Professor Erwin, While Smith and Brown Are Other Authors

NO FALSE ALARM
Plays Are of Fantastic and Comedy Type, But None of Modern Realism

The first presentation of any work by the Davidson Dramatic Club will be made Friday evening, January 15th, in Shearer
Hall, when the club will present three one-act plays. The three plays were written by members of the club, and
each is considered superlative to any that have been given in past years. The cast has been carefully selected from
the club members, and all is in readiness for the curtain to be drawn down on Friday evening.

The first play was written by Prof. Erwin, and is entitled “A Little Bleeding.” The story concerns the bending of
Mrs. Obedience Mortley by Roderick Stewart, a Tory, and the complications that ensue therefrom. The cast is as follows:
Colonel Motley - Sir Robert Lindsey
Roderick Stewart - Ben Ratchford
Henry Powell - Val Guthrey
Tyree Dillard - John McNeely
Mrs. Guy - Johnsie Shelton
Mary Lindsay - Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld

The second play is entitled “Tailor Made,” and is by Frederick Smith. The cast for thisThe play has been selected
as follows:

Bob Weston — Frank Wilkinson
Jebb Pashly — Frederick Smith
Captain Billy Harwood — Linton Deck
Dorothy Grayson — Ruth Erwin
Betty Park — Sarah Thompson

The final play is by Wood Brown. This one-act play is entitled “The Conqueror of the Gods.” The scene is
laid in a heathen temple in ancient Babylon. The plot centers around the strife between ancient superstitions and science. The
cast for this play is as follows:

High Priest — H. M. Austin
Astronomer — S. W. Brown
First Guard — Herman Campbell
Second Guard — Robert Brittian
First Peasant — T. Jones
Second Peasant — C. F. Monk

These compose the best set of plays that (Continued on page 5)

TWO GAMES BEFORE EXAMS!

With four games finished, the basketball team faces a schedule of 13 more contests. Concord Y, Salisbury Y, Duke, and
N. C. State have been played, and with the exception of Salisbury, return games have been engaged with each, all
to take place away from home. The schedule for the remainder of the season follows:

January 19 — Wofford, at Davidson.
January 19 — Hampden-Sidney, at Davidson.
February 2 — Concord Y, at Concord.
February 6 — Guilford, at Davidson.
Undetermined — Charlotte Y, at Charlotte.
February 13 — Furman, at Davidson.
February 15 — Clemson, at Clemson.
February 17 — Wofford, at Spartanburg.
February 20 — N. C. State, at Raleigh.
February 22 — Duke, at Durham.
February 23 — Carolina, at Chapel Hill.
February 27 — Citadel, at Davidson.

WILDCATS WIN CLOSE GAME FROM DUKE BUT FALL BEFORE TECHMEN

Dr. Harding Talks in Northern City

Reading a highly interesting paper before the American Philological Association, the oldest organization of its kind in America, this meeting
being the fifty-seventh session, Dr. Richard Harding, professor of Greek at Davidson College, illustrated the parallelism of Greek and modern
languages, notably English. The meeting of this noted association was held at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday, December 29-31.

Holding their sessions in conjunction with the Philological Association were two other national organizations, the Archaeological Institute of America and
the College Art Association of America. Speaking on “Greek Grammar Illustrated From the Modern Newspaper,” at the afternoon session of
the opening day, Dr. Harding made an effort to show the parallelism between the Greek language of old with that
of modern English and other widespread tongues. The speaker stressed the point that some clever utterances could be retained when
transitions were made from the original to a foreign tongue. He stated that certain English idiomatic expressions came directly from
the Greek; adding that (Continued on page 5)

Usage, Editor’s Exit Causes Resignation of Staff

Much Interest Aroused in South Over Magazine Question at Davidson

On Monday morning T. C. Barr notified the student body that the faculty of the college refused to recognize him
as editor of the Davidson College Magazine. At the same time, the staff of the Magazine submitted their unconditional resignation,
accompanying this by a vigorous set of resolutions clarifying their position to the student body.

Former editor Barr was elected to this position by the student body shortly before the Christmas holidays to succeed C.
F. Monk, who had been deposed by the faculty as a result of anonymous articles entitled “Dim Morning,” which was
featured in the Thanksgiving issue of the Magazine. At the time of Monk’s expulsion from office, the staff of the
Magazine, of which T. C. Barr was a member, being exchange editor, and incidentally author of the feature “Dim Morning,”
was nominated for editor-in-chief and later unanimously elected to this office by the students.

Although the resignation of the staff, though coming as a complete surprise to the student body, was welcomed with a
round of applause by the students. The present developments place the Magazine in a precarious plight, as a result of
these complications, the students seem to think its discontinuance inevitable. The whole topic is a subject of keen interest to
the students of the college and the alumni at large. The affair has also gained wide publicity through the newspapers
of the South. It has received wide comment in editorial columns, both favorably and otherwise.

The members of the Thelamite Club were guests of Mrs. J. W. McConnell at a party held Monday evening in
their home in honor of Dr. McConnell’s birthday. Col. Rowell, of Atlanta, head of the R. O. T. C. in
the fourth corps area, was the out-of-town guest.

Davidson Quint Opens North Carolina Basketball With One Point Victory Over Methodists — State Wins 32-24 Monday Night

Coach Younger’s basketball team opened up the North Carolina intercollegiate basketball season by defeating the Duke University five 32-31 here
Friday night, but fell before the fast-passing team from North Carolina State on the following Monday. Both games were highly
interesting, Davidson leading throughout the first by a narrow margin, while in the latter the Wildcats fought valiantly to overcome
the lead established early in the game by State.

The Wildcat quintet took on the Duke University five for the first game of this year last Friday night. It
was a fast and exciting contest in which the outcome was no certainty at any time during the game. After
the first few minutes of the game, the Wildcats took the lead and never lost it or tied from then
on although Duke came within one or two points several times.

Huie, playing left forward for the Wildcats, started things going when he dropped in a two-pointer from a distant position
on the floor. Duke soon registered a field goal and free shot which put them one point in the lead.
The Wildcats then proceeded to take the lead and they held it for the rest of the game. It was
a game full of thrills, especially as the last period was becoming short and the score was standing close. The
game was a closely contested and a clean one. For the Wildcats, Huie was high point man, registering a total
of 10 points and playing a good game throughout. Anderson, playing right guard, at the same time rolled up eight
points. Hartness, for Duke, proved to be a very able man on the floor and at making counters and was
the bright light for Duke. Moss and Bullock shared honors with Hartness for outstanding playing. Much can be said of
Ben Wilson's work at center for the Wildcats. The big boy gets the tip-off and he has what it takes
to get the ball away from the goal of the opposition. Captain “Flake” Laird was right there against Duke.

Duke showed great ability in forming her defense quickly and that held the Wildcats much in check. Both teams were
unable to (Continued on page 5)

“Y” Cabinet Makes Plans for Spring

The “Y” Cabinet is looking forward with no little expectation to the accomplishment of real work and much good during
the second semester. It is the intention of each member of the cabinet to devote more time and effort to
their respective departments in carrying out the plan outlined for the coming months.

Aside from the regular program carried out by the Y. M. C. A. on the campus, there are several other
tasks in view. Plans are underway for mission study classes to be conducted in the spring for six or eight
weeks. These classes will be in charge of K. Regen and supervised by E. F. On February 21st, Dr. D.
H. Ogden, of Mobile, Ala., will come to lead the Life Work services which will last for four days. Dr.
Ogden comes highly recommended and is well known to many of the students. Assisting Dr. Ogden in the services will
be the Columbia Seminary Quartet, which will render a varied program of music, appropriate to the services. As there are
236 men or nearly half of the student body undecided as to what shall be their life work, the “Y”
(Continued on page 5)
