THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 18, 1925

Alumni Notes

George McLean, ex-’26, was married during the Christmas holidays to Miss Anna Kersey Rosemond, both being from Winona, Miss. Both Mr. and Mrs. McLean are attending ‘Ole Miss, where George will graduate this spring. They spent their honeymoon in New Orleans, returning to the University for further work.

Romulus A. Nunn, ’98, was recently honored with the office of Judge of the Superior Court of the Fifth Judicial District. The day after his appointment, Judge Nunn took up his duties by opening the February term of the Craven County Superior Court.

Rev. William E. Hill, 1900, formerly of Fayetteville, N. C., and originally from Wilmington, N. C., was recently installed as pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Richmond, Va. Dr. Charles L. King, ’14, preached the installation sermon and Dr. Edward Mack, ’86, now professor of Hebrew at Union Theological Seminary, delivered the charge to the new pastor.

“Soe” Gibbs, '25, who is attending Columbia Seminary in Columbia, S. C., is reported to be getting along splendidly with the fairer sex at the University of South Carolina.

The above picture is one of the Davidson Faculty as represented in one of the stills on the faculty which now numbers nine. It will be noted that out of the nine, six are Professors Hinton and Wood.

ATTACK BURBANK

Fire on Luther Burbank was opened in the Wesleyan chapel last week when Dr. Frederick Wood, head of the department of mathematics and astronomy, attacked the scientist's views on religion Thursday, and Prof. J. C. Hinton, for twenty-five years dean of Wesleyan and for thirty-five years head of the department of mathematics and astronomy here, pointed out the inconsistencies in the recent statement of the plant wizard in Saturday morning's service.

The Freshman football season has come and gone. You know the result. The basketball season is well past the halfway mark. Comment unnecessary. We are now wondering what the Freshman class has in the way of track men and baseball material. We hope for the best.

GILMER-MOORE’S CHARLOTTE

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank Charlotte, N. C.

DUNN, President JOHNSTON, Vice-President SUMMEY, Vice-President I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer T. S. DUNN, Assistant Cashier R. A. JOHNSTON, Assistant Cashier C. W. SUMMEY, Assistant Cashier A. T. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00

Nowhere Can You Beat That Toasty Flavor

Each fluffy white morsel coated with golden butter and superheated to a piping hot crisp. That’s delicious.

BUTTER-KIST POP CORN

Be sure to take a bag or carton to your room. No other treat so good---so nutritious. Also Butter-Kist Peanuts, Electrically Toasted

-FOR FEEDS AND SMOKES, SEE US-

At 10 P. M. when you grow drowsy and studies bore, take up a collection (on hall), and send for B-K at THE STUDENT STORE “It’s Yours---Why Not Patronize It.”

The Davidsonian tried, in vain, to get out the issue this week without giving Whirsy Wy her usual column, but the editors, not wishing to be sued for libel, decided after a minute conference to give her the usual publicity. The following is the product of that worthy lady's pen or rather typewriter:

This department hears that our friend, Robert the Link, made a rather disastrous trip to Winthrop last week; on returning, our lovely lady displayed a harelip! This ornament, we understand, is the result of a hurried departure via the back fence of the old college campus.Rob our sympathy in his discomfort and embarrassment. What a misfortune to befall the R.O.T.C. of this venerable institution. We understand that Mason of the junior class, and recently appointed Colonel of the Davidson army, has had to resign his post of honor on account of a disgraceful affair with one of the known matrons of the town. Attune your ears to the mournful melody of James E.F., who recently, in hearing that the Glee Club would make a Southern tour, tried out for it, hoping thereby to be included in the affair. His throat first vibrated, but was hurled into utter darkness, thereby failing in his purpose. We understand that his most ardent desire was to journey with them to his tootic-fruitic, who resides there.

Witless Hancock, of the Soph class, gave a statement to the press at the insistent urge of a reporter. This statement, which, we assure you, had to be picked out of reticent Mr. Hancock piece by piece, infers that he will soon announce his candidacy for the student vote of the ugliest man in the College. Mr. Hancock understands that this is a very high honor that he is asking the students to bestow on him, but he assured the reporter that he would use all the attractions of his varied and scintillating personality in filling the office, if honored by it, to the best of his endeavors. We hereby announce that Mr. Hancock has The Davidsonian’s undivided support in the primaries, and that this department will do all in its power to help him achieve this position of rank, where we are sure Mr. Hancock rightfully belongs.

No doubt the readers of this publication will rejoice to learn that the renowned Mr. R.A. Miller, S.O.B., of Rock Hill, S.C., will return to school shortly, his absence from the college having been caused by an unavoidable mishap at his home. This misfortune, the publication can vouch for its authenticity, happened when Mr. Miller tried to aid a lady in distress who, to his astonishment, was an old acquaintance of his. The particulars of this unfortunate occurrence will be left to the readers to decipher, or, if tiring in their effort, they may wait for the next issue of The Davidsonian, which will carry full particulars of Mr. Miller’s mishap and what was the final outcome of his search.

Did Romance keep always before him yet just out of reach? Or did he find it under the blue skies of the South Seas, or run it down among the wonderful islands of the Caribbean? He failed to find it. Romance is rather a vague thing you can discover in gay places and you may miss it without expecting to.

BELK’S
Have you bought that new Spring Suit?
SLICKERS
TIES
HATS
UNDERWEAR
SHIRTS
SOX
KNICKERS AND GOLF SOX

On next Thursday, Feb. 25th, we will display our line at Phi Hall. Inspect our line---note our values:
BELK BROS. CO. AT CHARLOTTE

NEW VICTOR RECORDS
I'm Sitting on Top of the World -- With Ukulele and Piano. Frank Crumit.
Sweet Child -- With Violin, Cornet and Piano. Gene Austin. Victor Record No. 19928, 10-inch.

Poor Little Rich Girl -- Fox Trot (from Charlot's Revue, 1926.) Paul Whiteman and His Orchestra.
What Do I Care? -- Medley Fox Trot (from Princess Flavia.) International Novelty Orchestra.
Just Around the Corner -- Fox Trot. Art Landry and His Orchestra.
Smile a Little Bit -- Fox Trot With Vocal Refrain. Ted Weems and His Orchestra. Victor Record No. 19930, 10-inch.

In Your Green Hat -- Fox Trot. Vocal Refrain by Billy Murray. Jack Shilkret’s Orchestra.
I Want Somebody to Cheer Me Up -- Fox Trot. Jack Shilkret’s Orchestra. Victor Record No. 19931, 10-inch.

HEAR THESE AT
PARKER-GARDNER CO. MUSIC DEPT.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.