6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1926

Shrine Quartet Unable to Appear as Scheduled
Famous Musicians Will Give Concert Here at Later Date

Bubbles of mirth—Sonorous strains from a romantic guitar—thrill!—surprise—
The Shrine Quartet, which was scheduled to entertain a Davidson audience Tuesday night, will be unable to fill its engagement, and the event has been postponed until the middle or the latter part of April. Mr. Saunders, the singer, was unavoidably detained in Spartanburg, and for this reason, the appearance here has been put off.

This group is composed of Mr. Lacy Adams, first tenor; Mr. D. H. Williams, second tenor; Mr. P. H. Thompson, baritone; and Mr. D. Saunders, bass. Since all are college men, they know the kind of program that will be most enjoyable at Davidson. A number of parodies and popular songs will be featured.

This quartet has toured Canada, Mexico, California, and has visited a number of the large cities throughout the United States. In all their concerts, they have been most favorably received. On March 22nd, the quartet will broadcast from Station WBT in another state.

For the College Man
The Pilot Life Insurance Company provides a contract at one-half regular premium rates during the first five years. This liberal feature makes it convenient for the college man to get his life insurance at his present age and carry it for the least possible cost during college days. See that you get your protection from the Pilot.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
GREENSBORO, N.C.
A. W. McALISTER, President

THE CHARLOTTE HOTEL
One of the Foor-Robinson System
Dining Room and Coffee Shop in connection.
"A good hotel in a good town"
239 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C

INSURANCE
We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price of not carrying it.
McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13)
Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department.
Charlotte N.C.

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

Colleen Moore to Appear Here
And we have with us Colleen Moore in the stage hit, “The Desert Flower.”

When Margaret Fortune finds herself and her little step-sister, Gwen, left motherless, with Mike Dyer, her brutal step-father, as boss, she turns for advice to Mrs. McQuade, wife of one of the crew, and the only other woman in the camp. Mrs. Mack, as she is called, urges the girl to take her infant sister and quit camp. But it is only after a brutal attack by Dyer, brought on by his jealousy of young Rance Conway, a good-looking tramp whom Margaret has befriended, that she sends baby Gwen off to a nursing home and steals away with little Gwen. Margaret overtakes Rance, and together they enter the new gold boom town of Bull Frog. Jack Royal, proprietor of the dance hall, engages Margaret, and with the first money earned, Margaret is now very much in love with Rance and determined to reform him. Rance has just squandered a large sum of money sent him by his wealthy father in the East. Margaret taunts him with being a quitter, and finally arouses his manhood. She stakes him, and he goes out into the desert to “do or die.” On the night that Rance returns with success, Mike strikes town. He gets into Margaret's shack and is threatening her life when Rance enters. There is a shot, and Dyer apparently drops dead. Margaret is about to be arrested for the murder, but Rance swears it was he who fired. While the sheriff was in a quandary over which to arrest, Dyer revives. He is merely wounded. The sheriff takes him in charge. Rance claims Margaret as his bride, and they leave for a honeymoon in the bridegroom's palatial Eastern home. “The Desert Flower” will be shown at the Gym, Saturday night, March 20th.

Malcolm Martin has accepted a position with the Haustica Petroleum Co., and expects to leave for Brazil in the early spring.

Charlotte radio fans might tune in and get a taste of what they will be fortunate enough to hear in Shearer Hall soon. The program here is expected to be one of the most enjoyable and entertaining heard in some time, and everyone will be well repaid to come out and hear the famous Shrine Quartet.

Seminary Quartet Will Conduct Vesper Service Here Sunday Afternoon
The regular Y. M. C. A. vesper service next Sunday evening will be in charge of a quartet from Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. The quartet is composed of Dan McGeachy, class of '22, bass; Alexander McKelway, Hampden-Sidney, baritone; A. Cunningham, of Austin College, tenor. The Union Seminary Quartet visited Davidson last year, and it will be remembered that three of the above men, McGeachy, Gibson, and McKelway, were members of the quartet at that time. They are coming as a deputation from the Seminary, and one of them will address the students at the vesper service. They will also probably sing at the morning church service and have charge of the Ministerial Band program. Union Seminary has a reputation for good quartets as well as good speakers, so next Sunday's service promises to be most worthwhile.

Davidson has already had deputations from Louisville and Columbia Seminaries which were well received and enjoyed, and it is with pleasure that we look forward to the coming of this one from Union.

Norris Athletic Trophy to be Awarded in June
Present Holder of Award Ineligible to Enter Into Competition Again
The Norris Athletic Trophy for 1925-1926 will be awarded at commencement to Davidson's best all-round athlete. The award will go to the student who, throughout the year, most distinguishes himself in the branches of intercollegiate sport. Flake Laird, star in three major sports, was the winner of this trophy year before last, no award being made last year. Inasmuch as one athlete may not win more than once, it is probable that the race for the honor this year will be close, and considerable interest is being manifested in it. The Norris Athletic Trophy committee, made up of the director of athletics, the chairman of the faculty athletic committee, the graduateManager of athletics, the president of the student body, and the alumni secretary, with Mr. Frank E. Lowenstein, of Atlanta, Ga., as ex-officio chairman, shall have charge of the details of awarding the trophy. In the absence of the ex-officio chairman, the director of athletics shall preside at all meetings of the committee. The alumni secretary shall act as secretary to the committee, and shall keep a record of all proceedings.

2. To be eligible for the trophy, the prospective recipient must have attained a passing grade on at least 70 percent of his scholastic work carried during the year.

3. The winner shall be determined by a popular vote of the student body in a primary election to be held during the first week in April, and in a final election to be held at the same time and place that balloting occurs for the election of officers of the student government.

4. The three men receiving the highest number of votes in the primary election shall be considered as candidates for the trophy, and shall enter the final election to be held simultaneously with the election of officers of the student government as above provided.

5. Each regularly enrolled student of the college may vote once for the candidate of his choice in the primary by writing the said candidate’s name on the ballot prepared for that purpose and depositing the same in the ballot box; but after the field of candidates has been narrowed down to three by the primary, only the three men receiving the highest number of votes shall be considered in the final election.

6. Ballots for the final election shall bear the names of each of the three candidates, and the voter shall indicate his choice by a cross mark (X) after the name of the candidate for whom he elects to vote.

7. Balloting in both the primary and the final election shall be conducted by representatives of the Norris Athletic Trophy committee. Immediately after the primary, the committee shall determine from a count the three candidates to enter the final election. Their names shall be published in the students’ newspaper, “The Davidsonian,” and posted on all college bulletin boards. If the three men receiving the highest number of votes in the primary are below the scholastic standard adopted, the committee may substitute the names of the next highest men whose scholarship work meets the requirements. In determining the scholastic standing of a student, the committee shall be guided by the records on file in the registrar's office.

9. All expenses incurred in holding both the primary and the final election, such as the cost of printing the ballots, etc., shall be borne by the Davidson College Athletic Association.

10. The name of the winner of the trophy shall be given to the commencement program committee to be printed in the commencement program and the trophy shall be awarded along with other awards, medals, etc., at the commencement.

BALTIMORE Y. M. C. A. AND NAVAL ACADEMY (Continued from page 2)

Defense tactics rather than those of the attack were in evidence as indicated by the lack of falls. The visitors won four decisions totaling a dozen points and the Midshipmen secured three. The best bouts of the afternoon were in the 115 and 125-pound classes. The Ashford brothers put up a good defense against Frierson and Barrington respectively, each losing by an advantage of less than two minutes.

Summary: Score, Davidson 12; Naval Academy, 9.

115-pound class—Frierson, Davidson, won decision over C. Ashford, Navy (Capt.), with time advantage of 1.48.
125-pound class—Barrington, Davidson, won decision over W. Ashford, Navy. Time advantage of 1.43.
135-pound class—Viser, Navy, won decision over Davis, Davidson. Time advantage. Two extra periods of three minutes.
134-pound class—Cox (Capt.), Davidson, won decision over Davidson, Navy. Time advantage of 4.43.
158-pound class—Estridge, Davidson, won decision over Furtney, Navy, with time advantage 4.21.
175-pound class—Chappell, Navy, won decision over Crinkley, Davidson. Time advantage 6.12.
Unlimited weight—Wickhorst, Navy, won decision over Vance, Davidson. Time advantage 3.2.

Referee—Ganster (Baltimore Athletic Club). Time of bouts, nine minutes.

PHI BETA KAPPA (Continued from page 1)

W. W. Woods was re-elected secretary and treasurer. Invitations were received from Agnes Scott College and the University of South Carolina, requesting the presence of representatives at the installation of chapters in these two institutions. Dr. T. W. Lingle and Prof. W. W. Woods were appointed to represent the local chapter at the latter ceremony and also to attend the meeting of representatives of all the chapters of seven states from Maryland to Florida.

CO-OPERATING

Fellows, we are trying to make The Davidsonian the “livest wire on the Hill,” but this is impossible for us to do if we do not have the co-operation of the students. There are so many things happening on the campus today that it is absolutely impossible for one man to learn about all that is taking place. We want to ask those who are at the head of any clubs, organizations, or fraternities to let the assignment editor of The Davidsonian know when they have anything of interest that should appear in the paper. Just drop a card to Kenneth Bell, or go by 15 Georgia and let him know about your article. He will see about the rest.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5050
Residence, 1937-3
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Douglas, the former vice-president, was elected to the presidency to succeed Dr. C. R. Harding, the present incumbent. Dr. T. W. Lingle was elected vice-president, and Prof. W. W. Woods was re-elected secretary and treasurer.

OPTOMETRIST
24 South Tryon St.
Upstairs
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Telephone 3528

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies
Mooresville, N. C.

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Neurocalometer Service
Charlotte, N. C.

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST
Charlotte, N.C.

Eyes Examined
Glasses Fitted

F. C. ROBERTS
“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS
RECORDS AND ROLLS
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC
OLDEST IN THE STATE
ANDREW MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.