THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

“FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. .......... Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES ............ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. LINGLE .................... Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN ................. Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS ................. Athletic Editor
RUFORD WEBB ................. Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY ................... Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN ................. Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY ................... Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN ................. Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON ................. Assignment Editor
P. F. JONES ..................... Feature Editor
TATE JONES .................... Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS ................. Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD ............... Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE ................... Assistant Business Manager
J. A. McALPINE ................. Subscription Manager
W. L. ALBRIGHT ................ Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY ............... Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN MORIARTY
A. N. BROWN
JOHN GWIN
T. T. JONES
R. H. McILWAINE
L. ELY
J. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH
A. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD
B. WILSON
J. R. WEAVER
B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

ALUMNI HOMECOMING

For the first time in a long and eventful history, Davidson College is to celebrate a real Alumni Homecoming Day! The alumni homecoming idea is as old as the college itself, but efforts to fittingly observe an alumni day in the past have failed, due principally to indifference on the part of alumni and college officials alike. But, this year, with an Alumni Secretary bending every effort toward arranging a suitable program, and alumni from all parts of the country expressing a desire to be on hand, the success of the celebration seems assured.

Arrangements have been completed for an alumni celebration on November 13th, that will not only eclipse any similar affair ever held on the Davidson campus, but will in all probability be a high mark on the social and athletic calendars of the year. We note with especial interest an announcement which has gone out from our alumni secretary stating that on this occasion the new Richardson athletic field and magnificent concrete stadium will be dedicated. It is fitting that on the first real alumni homecoming day at Davidson, the students day than he was 25 years ago, has now a clearer perception of the relation of religion to life and social service is the most striking conclusion to be drawn from the nation-wide survey of compulsory chapel, conducted by the National Student Federation of America during the past few weeks. The investigation, the result of which embraced every state but two in the country, included the sending of questionnaires to college presidents, and the undergraduate editors of the nation, as well as to a representative group of ministers who appear frequently before college assemblies of various types. The following quotations have been taken at random from a subsequent report issued by H. C. Roce, Princeton, ’28, chairman of the Federation committee on compulsory chapel:

“The investigation on the subject of compulsory chapel has been conducted throughout in an entirely impartial spirit, which has aimed rather to discover the facts of the situation than to foster a “revolt of youth” or to assume an ultra-conservative stand. With this end in view, questionnaires were distributed to the number of 600 each to the college presidents and to the undergraduate editors of the country, in addition to 25 which were sent to representative college preachers. The relatively large response received from the college presidents seems to indicate, when compared with the scattering student replies, that the agitation among undergraduates on the subject of compulsory chapel is not so widespread as one might have been led to believe.”

Approximately 316 replies were received from college presidents with the following results: for compulsory Sunday chapel, 136; against, 176; for compulsory week-day chapel, 220; against, 90. The second question, regarding the chief benefits deemed to be secured from compulsory chapel, elicited in general several reasons in support of compulsory chapel from those who approved it. The two most important of these were the religious and inspirational value of the service, and the contribution which it made to college unity, with 103 votes for each.

The responses to the query “What do you believe to be the greatest change in the religious interests of the present students as compared with those of 1900?” were highly enlightening in view of the fundamentalist-modernist controversy, and the widespread charge that college students are becoming more immoral and atheistic. A plurality of the replies declared that the basis of college religion had shifted from individualism and devotion to social service. Sixty-two felt that the attitude of the students was more questioning and independent than ever before, that they expressed their thoughts more freely and had less patience with the doctrine or fine points of dogma. The bulk of the remainder declared in the ratio of three to one either that no change was apparent, or else there was a tendency for the better.

Who’s Who at Davidson

JOSEPH HOWARD McCONNELL
Davidson, N. C.
President of the Senior Class

Like Bohannon, whose smiling countenance graced this column several weeks ago, Joe McConnell hails from the village of Davidson, N. C., and his transition from the ranks of the “boys about town” to those of the college students did not entail a very lengthy journey. In fact, two hundred paces were sufficient to carry him from his home in the village to a place within the portals of the college, and Joe stepped off these two hundred paces in rather short order back in the fall of 1923. Three years have passed since his arrival on the campus as a freshman, and as a senior, he now looks back on a record of notable achievement and popular success. His ability, his geniality, and his loyalty have won for him a place of honor and esteem among his fellow-classmen as well as the other students on the campus. His activities indicate his versatility, and his achievements denote his prowess. A glance at the following offices will convince even the most dubious that Joe is a student par excellence and a man beloved of his fellows. Here are some of the honors and offices that he has won: membership and presidency of the Pan-Hellenic council, varsity football, membership in “D” club, the vice-presidency of the Junior Class, presidency of the Senior Class, the vice-presidency of the Athletic Association, membership on the Court of Control, scrub baseball, and freshman football and baseball. He is also a member of the Kappa Alpha (s) social fraternity.

WALTER OLIN NISBET
Charlotte, N. C.
Vice-President Student Body

“Mutt” Nisbet is only a Junior, and yet he has made a record of which many a Senior might well be envious. His work on the athletic field, and his leadership in the activities of both his class and the student body as a whole have been spectacular. As a result, he has won both prominence and prestige on the campus. Coming to Davidson from Charlotte in the fall of 1924, Nisbet immediately captured a place on the great little Wildkitten football squad, and, as a reward for his work, he was awarded a freshman numeral at the close of the season. In the spring of his freshman year, he captured honors on the cinder path, where he won new laurels in the 440-yard dash. He was elected to the vice-presidency of his class in the spring of his freshman year, and when Bob McMillan, the president, failed to return at the beginning of the sophomore term, “Mutt” was unanimously elevated to the presidency. At the helm of a sophomore class during one of the most trying years in the history of Davidson, when sophs and freshmen were continually tearing at each other’s throats, “Mutt” showed both executive ability and exceptional tact. Nisbet was awarded a letter for his work in the backfield of the varsity eleven during his sophomore year, and again this year is showing much aptitude in carrying the pigskin. His work against Guilford this year was the feature of the Wildcats’ performance. “Mutt” was elected vice-president of the student body last spring in the annual elections, winning by a neat margin, and is this year serving his second term on the student council. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

Inquiring Reporter

Collegiate Chatter

Is the fraternity situation better with thechapters off the campus, or did the old system have advantages? 

Bill Green: I do not think the present situation is as good as the former one. Davidson is too small a school to have its chapters off the hill.

Lynn McClain: The situation is worse than it was, because the fraternity men lose the contact with the non-fraternity men, and Davidson has been noted for this friendship.

John MacRae: The condition now is not so good, because for a school of this size, the democratic spirit is lost, although it is better for the convenience of the frat men now.

Bill Covington: It is good for all concerned now, for the organizations that were formerly cramped for space can expand with the new appreciation of it—and frankly, should be publicly extended to H. S. and L. Richardson, of Greensboro, through whose generosity, the college has been enabled to take such long forward strides in the matter of better athletic equipment. The generosity of these two benefactors of the college has been an inspiration to both students and alumni, and their gifts have greatly enhanced the value of the service that our college has been enabled to render.

Through special permission, Armistice Day, Davidson College Day, and Homecoming Day will all three be combined this year, and as a result of this combination, the celebration should be the greatest in the history of the institution. Two years ago, six thousand fans gathered at Richardson Field and sat spellbound as they watched a mighty Tar Heel eleven battle against eleven dauntless Wildcats for sixty scoreless minutes, and then drop-kick its way to a victory in the last few seconds of play. On November 13th of this year, ten thousand sport followers and alumni will gather in the new concrete stadium on Richardson Field to watch the Wildcats gain revenge for that disheartening defeat.

The Carolina-Davidson game will, of itself, attract thousands of alumni, who have followed with interest the continued success of the Red and Black eleven this season. Likewise, the dedicatory exercises, to be led by Dr. A. A. McGeachy, of Charlotte; the military review; the glee club performance; and the general alumni celebration will draw thousands of other graduates back to the campus to linger for another day beneath the elms and oaks that line the old familiar walks. All in all, it will be a great day for everybody. Alumni are urged to attend!

A CHAPEL SURVEY

That the undergraduate, far from being more atheistic or insensible to religion among undergraduates. The inquiries to the college editors drew a less representative response and included only forty-two replies. It was clear from these answers that the principle of compulsory chapel prevailed in most of the small colleges, and either had never prevailed or had been abandoned in by far the majority of the institutions. The replies showed a marked tendency to conform to the existing practice in the particular college, there being only four cases of revolt against the present regime among all the answers. Sixteen of the editors thought compulsory chapel good, while twenty were opposed. In the larger group, compulsory chapel was in force in but four instances. The remaining reports felt that compulsion was not the vital question but rather the provision of an interesting program.

The value of the chapel assembly for the sake of college unity was as clearly appreciated among the student editors as among the college executives, but there was a wider variety of reasons for and against compulsion among the undergraduates. The inadequacy of proper seating space was lamented by one of the editors, while others felt that the inattention and disrespect which they considered concomitants of compulsory chapel tended to destroy the religious faith of the undergraduate. The theory was also expressed that chapel still remains the best way to begin the day.

The twenty ministers who replied were at variance as to whether there was any noticeable difference between an audience compelled to listen, and one where attendance was voluntary. Ten realized no difference, while six were of the opinion that compulsion bred hostility. Nine favored compulsion, five were opposed, and six thought that its advisability depended largely on the tradition, size, and situation of the particular college.

Jay Hall: This situation will in time ruin the feeling of democracy that Davidson has been famous for, but it is an advantage in that it brings the men in the fraternity themselves closer together.

Mac King: Having houses off the campus doesn’t make any great difference, in fact, it’s better that way, but living off the campus takes away the men, prominent in student activities, that should be living in the dormitories, depriving them of the advantage of mixing with the other men.

John McKnight: It is better for fraternities to be on the campus because it gives the college more unity and more centralization. But if they were to move back on the campus now, there would be no place for them to build, and the old halls certainly were not adequate.

Hebe McIlwaine: The fraternities would be better on the hill, for their being off causes a split in feeling between the fraternity and non-fraternity men.

Paul Mauldin: Both have their advantages and disadvantages, for there is more friendship between fraternities when on, and there is more of a brotherly feeling in the chapter itself when off.

Frank Wyche: The fraternities would be in a better situation if they were on the hill, for then they are more in the college life, there is more congeniality, and there is a better setting for house parties.

Brownie McQueen: The fraternities are better off the campus, because they have more room—they have house mothers, which is a distinct advantage—and the chance to board together creates more friendship in the fraternity itself.

A headline in a Charlotte paper tells us that “Intuition Helps Women to Drive.” Perhaps it’s intuition that lets a woman know that the man driver will take to the ditch to allow her to pass.

SEEING YELLOW

The appearance of The Faun, a would-be prototype of H. L. Mencken’s American Mercury, on the University of North Carolina campus several weeks ago has resulted in considerable controversy at Chapel Hill, judging from the open-forum articles that have poured into the editorial offices of the Tar Heel since its publication. The Tar Heel has openly branded The Faun as another “yellow journal,” and has ridiculed the efforts of its editors to stir up dissension on the Carolina campus. “It was simply another effort to imitate old man Mencken, but what a puny, feeble effort,” remarks the editor of the Tar Heel, who goes on to say that the “yellow journal” was merely the “house organ of a politically ambitious social fraternity,” which is bending every effort toward maintaining control over all Carolina publications.

HIGHER LEARNING

A skyscraper “Temple of Learning,” projecting 350 feet above the street level, is the central feature of a tentative $5,000,000 building program for Temple University of Philadelphia. The skyscraper will be a memorial to the late Russell H. Conwell, apostle of Success, author of Acres of Diamonds, and founding father of Temple University. The new building will compete in the skyline with office buildings, town hall, factory stacks, and great compress elevators. At the very top of the immense structure, a large lantern will be placed to symbolize the “beacon light of knowledge.” The architecture and size of the structure will make it unique among the colleges and universities of the nation.

HE WHO LAUGHS LAST

We note with added interest, now that the Presbyterian College of South Carolina has succeeded in administering a drubbing to the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest, a clipping that appeared in the October 9th issue of the Blue Stocking, student publication at the Presbyterian College. It appeared under the words “Luck, That's All,” and read as follows:

“Speaking of luck, aren’t those Demon Deacons the luckiest bunch of sheiks that ever wore jerseys? Why, if Carolina had had half the luck that the Deacons enjoyed last Saturday, the Baptists would be mourning over a defeat now, instead of rejoicing over a victory.”

The clipping was taken from the student paper of the University of North Carolina and appeared nearly three weeks ago, it’s true. But, we wonder now if the Wake Forest supporters consider the Deacons to have been lucky in the overwhelming defeat they suffered at the hands of P. C. last Saturday, or whether P. C. supporters will feel that Wake Forest was “lucky” to have suffered as lightly as she did.