8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1926

STUDENTS INSURE LIVES

Students of Fisk University, Nashville, Tenn., set a precedent in college loyalty when the members of the classes of 1925
and 1926 took out endowment insurance policies on their lives, making Fisk the irrevocable beneficiary. Lacking the means to give
largely to the institution, each took this method of creating a substantial estate which will accrue to the University at
the end of the endowment period, or at the death of the insured. This step was taken in connection with
an endowment campaign now under way and was initiated by one of the alumni of the institution.

Monkey Business

First Sister—“I simply refuse to go riding with Jack again. The sissy thing’s afraid to drive with one hand. Why,
I’d as soon go out with a monkey.”
Second Sister—“That’s right, a monkey could drive with his feet.”

Twenty million tons of iron go to ruin annually because of rust, it is estimated.

DAVIDSON TEN YEARS AGO

The Davidson Wildcats ended a most successful football season defeating the Clemson Tigers in the last game of the year.
Davidson more than made up for the tie scores of the two previous years with Clemson by handing the Tigers
an overwhelming defeat in the Thanksgiving game staged at Charlotte. From the time that “Steve” Walker received the opening kickoff
and ran 55 yards through the whole Clemson team, until the last whistle blew, it was clearly Davidson's game. Five
touchdowns and three goals were the total score and this was probably lessened by the frequent and heavy penalties of
the Wildcats. The game was a fitting climax to the wonderful record made this season, and ended the most successful
year Davidson has had in a long time. The selection for the All-State team, as picked by Carey Dowd, sporting
editor of the Charlotte News, has five Davidson men. These are: Sayad, at tackle; White, center; R. Walker, guard; Black,
quarterback; and Burns, halfback.

Type of Entertainment

Faculty Assists in Reception for Freshmen

Last Friday afternoon the “Y” inaugurated a new custom at Davidson College in the form of a reception for the
Fresh class. The Freshmen were divided into four groups, each group being entertained at the Y Hall one afternoon. The
first group consisted of those from A through G; the second from G to M; the third from M to
R; and the last comprising the remainder of the class and those who were unable to attend the reception held
for their group. The first reception was held last Friday, the second on Monday, the third Wednesday and the last
will be held Friday. The purpose of these receptions is to give the Freshmen social contact with the leaders of
the campus and the faculty, to make them feel that Davidson is a second home and eradicate that homesick feeling
that comes to so many students. The faculty advisers of each group, together with their wives, have been present with
those particular men. The wives of the members served tea and cakes to all the Freshmen who attended. Mrs. Martin
had charge of the arrangements and helped very much by her kind assistance.

Town News

The following young people of the town of Davidson are expected home this week-end to spend the holidays with relatives:
Misses Sarah Hamilton and Jane Richards, of Converse. Charlotte Hunter Martin, of Agnes Scott. Misses Kitty and Letitia Curry, of
Salem. Misses Sarah Barnette and Ruth Johnston, of North Carolina College for Women. Miss Elizabeth Frye, of Asheville Normal College.
Miss Helen Procter, of Eastern Carolina Training School at Greenville, N. C. Miss Mildred Mooney, of Mitchell College, Statesville. Miss
Evelyn Potts, of Washington.

William White, of the U. S. Naval Academy. Eustis E. Lingle, of Princeton, accompanied by his roommate, Norman Newmark, of
Los Angeles, Cal. The following young ladies of Davidson now teaching elsewhere will also be home for the holidays: Miss
Sarah Lingle, from Converse. Misses Sophie Richards and NinaHolt Theatre Now Showing

Many of the speeches, dealing with five questions of the day, accorded high praise to Woodrow Wilson, showing the political
affiliation of the majority of the speakers. The European War and other matters were discussed from various viewpoints. There was
a large number of visitors on the Hill for the occasion, including alumni, friends, and relatives of the students. The
receptions were held at the Mave, and the tables in the room held cakes and candy, providing a place for
the Freshmen to gather together with the members of the Senior class. The occasion will long be remembered by all
who had the pleasure to attend.

Phi Society

In one of the most interesting and delightful sessions of its long and storied history, the Philanthropic Literary Society met
last Thursday at 7:30 o'clock and proceeded, with many high flights of oratory on the part of its talented members,
to indict, try, and condemn Bill Covington on the following grave and serious charge: “Resolved that the defendant is guilty
in whole and entirety of conducting himself, behaving in such a manner, and wearing his hair in such a mode,
that, as a direct consequence, and due to deliberate and premeditated design, he has in a manner worthy of all
condemnation, by various late dates and other devices invented by himself, broken the hearts of various fair visitors who were
deceived by his cantimonious and saintly airs and by other wiles proceeding from his hypocrisy and nymphomania. To wit, he
is accused of telling, on his bended knee, with various and sundry assurances of eternal faith and allegiance, to ten
girls in immediate succession, that to them belonged his entire faith, love, fortune, and heart.” In spite of the moving
indictment by the famous misogynist, Morris Gilmour, the defendant was acquitted on his plea that he was out of his
ordinary self due to something that he had eaten, or maybe, drunk.

Junior Week Dates

The dates for Junior Week have been changed after a successful petition to the executive committee. The time set was
from March 30th through April 5th, but has been changed to April 14th through 20th. Since Easter comes at this
time, more girls will be here, and this moving of dates should add much to the success of Junior Week.
The Juniors have been getting things in shape and making plans, and will soon have things well under way.

The petition was successful also in that the holidays were changed so that they will begin on Thursday at 1:30,
instead of Wednesday at 8:30. The previous dates were from Wednesday at 1:30 to Tuesday at 8:30. The same general
arrangement of the program for the entire week that has been followed for the last few years has been planned
for the Junior Week of 1927.

Holt Theatre Schedule

Tues., Dec. 21 - "Love’s Blindness," a Metro-Goldwyn picture.
Wed., Dec. 22 - "The Great Gatsby," a Paramount picture.
Thurs., Dec. 23 - "Twinkle Toes," with Colleen Moore.
Sat., Dec. 25 - "Stepping Along," with Johnny Hines.

Davidson Theatre Schedule

Mon. and Tues., Dec. 20, 21 - Corinne Griffith in "Syncopating Sue."
Wed. and Thurs., Dec. 22, 23 - "Everybody’s Acting."
Friday, Dec. 24 - Johnny Hines in "Stepping Along."
Saturday, Dec. 25 - Fred Thompson in "The Tough Guy."

Warner’s Broadway Theatre

The Home of KEITH Vaudeville
Every Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

The Shrine of the Photoplay
Every Thursday, Friday, Saturday

The Best in Pictures
Get the Broadway Habit
