THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

Fellows:
You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station.
Davidson, N. C.

CATARRH of nose or throat is made more endurable, sometimes greatly benefited by applying Vicks up nostrils. Also melt some
and inhale the vapors.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

Get it on the dealer’s counter, the best Peppermint Chewing Sweet.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Wood Brown—"I understand you called me a dog the other day.”
Sot Graves—"‘Twasn't me, man; you're barking up the wrong tree.”

We've Been Wondering
Why all the fellows out at the track meet last Saturday didn’t take the Dry Cleaner’s tags off their clothes
before appearing in public.

You can wander anywhere in the United States, but you have to go to Italy to Rome.

Why isn't this the morning after the night before? Because Junior Speaking started only this morning.

She—"I spent the winter in Germany—I love Dantzig.”
Buck Shaw—"Then shall we step out on the floor and have a dance, or is your cold too bad?”

Kelly Woodham says that when a man is condemned to death in Mississippi, they do not hang him; they put
shoes on his feet and let him buck himself to death.

Hendrix—"Last night I dreamed I was married to the most beautiful girl in the world.”
She—"Oh, Jimmy, were we happy?”

“Swing Low, Sweet Chariot,” sang Hoo John as the old Stutz rounded the curve making sixty per hour.

The latest fad in the Northern co-ed colleges is to wear men’s socks over the ladies’ hose. The girlies say
that this is quite hot even in the coldest weather, and it looks lots better than those ungainly galoshes.

“Did you get all the questions on the test?”
“Yes, it’s the answers that I missed.”

“May, aren't you getting too big to play with the boys?”
“Oh, no, Mother, the bigger I get the better I like them.”

Glee Club Director—"Are you the man with the falsetto voice?”
Pee Wee McCravey—"No, ma‘am, I’m the fellow with the false set o’ teeth.”

A Trial Balance
A fellow trying to hold a lady on his knee for the first time.

Famous Sayings of Famous People
Samson—"I’m strong for you, kid.”
Nero—"Keep the home fires burning.”
Queen Eliz. to Sir Walt Raleigh—"Keep your shirt on, kid.”
Mark Antony to Cleopatra—"You're an easy mark.”
Solomon—"I love the ladies.”
Captain Deck—"Eyes (I’s) Right!”

Prof.—"I’ll not dismiss the class until the room settles down!"
Voice from the rear—"Better go home and sleep it off, old man.”

“He sure is a hick; he has hayseed in his hair, and oats in his throat.”
“Yes, and rye in his stomach.”

MARIONETTE PERFORMANCE (Continued from page 1)
times in the European and Asiatic countries. In many places, they still play an important part in the life of
the peasants and even in the higher circles. In Japan and China, traveling companies give these shows in villages from
one end of the country to another, and they are always popular. Of late years, they have been so perfected
that they give one the impression of gazing upon a play with human actors. In the past few years, Tony
Sarg, an eminent artist of New York, has popularized these marionettes throughout the United States. They have delighted thousands in
many cities and towns, and their coming is eagerly anticipated.

Debating Team to Meet Northwestern Wednesday
Three Men Teams to Discuss Cool Problem in Encounter

The University of Pittsburgh debating team will come here Wednesday, April 7th, for a debate with Davidson College. This will
be the first appearance of the Pitt orators in the South, and their coming will be looked forward to with
much interest on the part of Davidson students. The Southern tour will bring to a close one of the most
extensive debating programs ever undertaken by an American university. Fred Hamlin, Leo Shapiro, and Norman K. Mattis will be the
debaters who will...represent the Pittsburgh team. They are all experienced speakers and are leaders in campus activities. Hamlin, although this
is his first experience in an intercollegiate contest, has had training in public speaking. He is news editor of the
Pitt Weekly, the University of Pittsburgh newspaper, and was recently elected a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa, a national
activities fraternity. Sahpiro and Mattis are veterans in the forensic field.

With the completion of this Southern tour, the Pitt debaters will have traveled a total distance of approximately 7,000 miles
through 13 different states and will have been in competition against 40 of the leading institutions in the United States.
The schedule for the Southern trip included the following schools: Hampden-Sydney College, at Farmville, Va.; Emory and Henry College, at
Emory, Va.; Lenoir-Rhyne College, at Hickory, N.C.; Furman University, at Greenville, S.C.; University of South Carolina, at Columbia, S.C.; Davidson
College, at Davidson, N.C.; Duke University, at Durham, N.C.; Wake Forest College, at Wake Forest, N.C.; Atlantic Christian College, at
Wilson, N.C.; Richmond University, at Richmond, Va.; and William and Mary College, at Williamsburg, Va.

In the University of South Carolina debate, the query to be discussed will be as follows: Resolved: That the military
and air forces of the United States should be united in a separate and independent department with a minister in
the cabinet. That the government should control and operate the coal mines is the subject that will be discussed in
the other debates. The Pitt debaters will take sides with Colonel William Mitchell and argue that there should exist a
separate air force with a representative in the cabinet. In all the other debates, they will argue the negative side
of the government ownership of coal mines question. In the Furman and Emory and Henry debates, only two men will
represent each side, while in all the others, three-man teams will represent each school.

The men that are to represent Davidson in this debate are well qualified: Roland Parker, a senior orator, and one
of the best debaters in the school, who represented Davidson against Wake Forest last year; B. U. Ratchford, also a
senior orator, and one that has been in several debates since his first year, winning many society medals, and a
representative on Davidson's debate against P.C. last year; the third member of the team, H. T. Powell, is the only
Sophomore belonging to Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary freshman forensic fraternity, a winner in freshman debates last year, and an exceptional
orator. M. C. O'Neal, the alternate, is also a Sophomore debater of ability.

The track team will have their first meet of the season with Wofford in Spartanburg tomorrow and the new men
on the squad and team will be given a chance to exhibit their prowess. The dual meet with Wofford was
held here last year and the Wildcats managed to defeat them, so the Terriers will be out for blood as
this is the only meet between the two teams this season.

THE MOST POPULAR STUDENT TOURS TO EUROPE
41 perfectly organized tours to Europe, North Africa, Norway and Midnight Sun. All expenses afloat and ashore $231 up. EACH
TOUR ACCOMPANIED BY A WELL-KNOWN COLLEGE PROFESSOR AND A HOSTESS. Clientele exclusively students, teachers, alumni, and faculty representing 122 schools
in the United States. Exceptionally well planned and conceded to be the best. Include college orchestras, swimming pools, special entertainments,
sightseeing, etc. Literature, maps, itineraries from INTERCOLLEGIATE TRAVEL BUREAU, 1125 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. R. D. KAUFFELT Representative.

Eagerly awaited by the fellows here.

VIRGIL HOLLINGSWORTH, J. Fier Fogle

At Easter, one’s finest thoughts are aroused -- apathy is challenged -- a desire to express one’s finer self is
awakened into glorious activity. How better can you, with your natural and inherent love for fine things, convey your nobler
sentiments to friends and loved ones than with “Unusual Candies?” Sold by America’s finer drug stores.

WHITE DRUG CO.
Fine Things
AUGUSTA, GA.

Davidson, N.C.
