THEDAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON | Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 4, 1926 Wildcats Win First Six
Matches as State Team RETURNS FROM SOUTHERN TOUR Bows to Fighting Squad Davidson Takes 20-3 Win From North Carolina State
ALMOST SHUTOUT Crinkley Wins on Fall—Lambe Accounts for State's Points by Time Decision Winning the first six straight matches, the
Davidson wrestling team swept the North Carolina State squad off its feet here Friday night, the final score being Davidson
20, State 3. State came back in the final match to win by time in an extra period as Lambe,
football star on the Wolfpack line, overpowered Maulden, for Davidson. The Wildcats started off slowly, with Spry, of State, forcing
Joe Frierson to an extra period battle, Davidson finally winning on time by two minutes, 38 seconds advantage. However, the
Davidson squad began to gather momentum after Barrington had secured a five minutes, 19 seconds advantage over Ginn (State) in
an extra period. Davis took the next bout in quick order with six minutes advantage. Captain Cox (Davidson) continued the
Davidson onslaught with another time advantage. Then Crinkley, after battling through the first ten minutes on even terms, came back
in the extra period to throw Harrell, of State, in a few seconds over a minute’s time. Harrell waived the
right to re-enter. Harry Vance continued the winning with a time decision over Trevatham. The Davidson spectators were calling for
a shut-out as Maulden entered the mat, but Lambe, much more powerfully built, took the match in the extra period.
The meet was the last for the Davidson team before leaving for the United States Naval Academy, where it will
meet the Navy Plebes. Duke University has decided to disband its team and so will not meet Davidson. The following
are the results of the matches: Frierson (Davidson) won on time, 2:38, in extra period, from Spry (State); Barrington (Davidson)
won on time, 5:19, in extra period from Ginn (State); Davis (Davidson) won on time, (Continued on page 2) “Mr.
Bob,” a rip-roaring comedy in two acts, was presented by “The Queens Players” in Shearer Hall on Monday night before
a well-filled house of enthusiastic townspeople and admiring students. The lack of men for the male characters in the play
proved no handicap. Miss Ethel Braswell, playing the part of the butler; Miss Ann Fayssoux Johnson, as Phillip Royson; and
Miss Noel Walker, as Robert Brown, found much favor in the eyes of the audience from the marked degree of
perfection with which they impersonated masculine characters. Mr. Brown’s mustache was really becoming and in keeping with the fad so
prevalent among young men of today. Her keen appreciation of dramatic art, and love for “Mr. Shakespeare,” mingled with ease,
freedom, and skill of acting, were the factors that won continued outbursts of applause for Miss Dolly Moore, playing the
part of Patty, the maid. The entire cast proved to be well suited to their parts and the perfection with
which the play was carried out added to its attractiveness, and was a determining factor in its big success. The
summary briefly is as follows: fond of cats, very much to the disgust of Katherine, her niece, and Philip, her
nephew. She plans to have an extra room set aside for the accommodation of her cats and secretly sends for
an architect to look over the work. Katherine also expects her girl friend, Marion, whom she calls “Bob” by way
of a pet name, and who Phillip believes to be an admirer of Katherine’s. Phillip plans to entertain “Mr. Bob”
for the sake of his cousin Katherine, and naturally mistakes the supposed architect, who has arrived in the meantime, for
this admirer of Katherine’s. The servants who have been instructed to keep the architect's visit a secret, think that Mr.
Brown, the clerk, is the architect. (Continued on page 5) Miss Discussion Groups Are to Meet on Each Floor Dr.
McConnell of Sees ANGE wn The student discussion groups, which are held each year under the supervision of the Y.
M. C. A., will be renewed next Tuesday night. The students as a whole take a greater part in this
phase of the Y. M. C. A. work at Davidson than any other and heretofore a great interest has been
shown in them. This year sociological and economical problems will be discussed, such as those propounded by the Hon. J.
Stitt Wilson in his recent visit to the campus. The groups will meet on each floor of the dormitories under
the supervision of a leader who will be appointed by the Y. M. C. A. secretary. The time of meeting,
which has heretofore been Wednesday night, has been changed to Tuesday night at 9:00 o'clock. The discussions will be limited
in duration in order that no one will be forced to be absent on account of his studies. The leaders
of the groups will be instructed by Dr. J. M. McConnell, who is a fine student of economic and ethical
problems. In his instruction he will use the book “Christianity and Economic Problems,” by Kirby Page. Practically all of the
group leaders have had experience before and at least one has made a rather wide study of these problems himself.
From all indications these discussions should be the best ever held at Davidson.Rebecca Luke, an old maid, is very |
TEX SIGNS AGAIN

Announcement Saturday of the signing of Tex Tilson for another year as assistant football coach brought joy to the followers
of the Wildcats. For several months it has been doubtful whether Davidson would have the services of Coach Tilson for
another year, but the athletic authorities here have kept calmly at work, today announcing that both Younger and Tilson will
be back for another year. Much of the success of the Wildcat football teams since the beginning of the Younger-Tilson
regime at Davidson has been attributed to the great work of Tilson in developing the Davidson linesmen. Of the four
games which Davidson has lost in the last two football seasons, only one came as a result of Davidson's line
being run through. The other two resulted from passes or drop kicks of the opposing teams.

Seniors Make High Record First Term

Fifty-four of the 95 members of the Senior class of Davidson College made above 90 percent on their general average
for the first semester, the class average for the entire 95 students being 90.52 percent, according to statistics announced Saturday
by F. W. Hengeveld, registrar. Of the 54 students averaging 90 percent or more, 15 of them made a percentage
of 95 or more; eight were above 97, and three were above 98, which is an unprecedented record for Senior
classes at Davidson College. Ninety-five percent must be made to be accorded the honor of being on the honor roll,
and of the 15 Seniors winning this honor it is interesting to note that six states are represented in that
group. Seven were from North Carolina, three from Georgia, two from Alabama, with one each from South Carolina, Tennessee, and
Louisiana. The students making the honor roll and their averages were: R. W. Graves, of Rome, (Continued on page 8)

Davidson College Glee Club Back Home Following Whirlwind Tour of Southland

Bulldogs take Scrappy Contest by Single Goal

Davidson Plays Great Ball—Leads Through Most of Game—Laird and Huie’s Last Forty

Wildcat Musicians Score in Leading Southern Cities

SING OVER RADIO

Davidson Alumni and Presbyterians Entertain Members of Club After Concerts

The Citadel basketball team defeated the Davidson quint here Saturday night in the final game of the season by the
small margin of two points, 39-37. Both teams were playing championship ball, and the going was hot and heavy throughout.
The Wildcats played their best game of the year and led the Bulldogs throughout the contest up to the final
minutes, when the South Carolina team made a brilliant spurt and were never passed by the Davidson team. The Wildcats
drew first blood when Captain Flake Laird, playing his last game, sunk a beautiful shot from outside the 17-foot line.
From then on, the scoring was about even and at the half, the Wildcats were leading by a two-point margin,
21-19. After the half, Davidson came back a little stronger and soon had the score 30-25. At this point, Teddy
Weeks, star forward for Citadel, went on a scoring spree and sank three field goals in succession. From then on
the Davidson team fought madly to catch the Bulldogs. Tom Anderson, by his quick shots from under the basket, brought
the Wildcats to within two points of Citadel's lead. Teddy Weeks, for Citadel, was the high-point man of the evening,
and his brilliant playing was especially noticeable throughout the game. He had 16 points to his credit when the final
shot was rung. Captain Laird, for Davidson, was high point man for his team in his last appearance with a
Davidson basketball team, with 13 points. Anderson and Douglas were not far behind with 11 and 10 points respectively. They
also put out a neat brand of basketball. Winberg also showed up well for Citadel, garnering eight points for his
quota of the evening’s score.

Davidson (37) Position Citadel (39)
Laird (13) --------- Weeks (16)
Huie (4) ---------- Douglas (10)
(Continued on page 5)

The Davidson Glee Club returned to the Hill yesterday morning after an extended tour, lasting for eight days, through North
Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. The Glee Club presented six concerts: Spartanburg; Gainesville, Ga., at Brenau; Atlanta, Agnes Scott College
at Decatur, Ga.; Greenville, S. C., and Charlotte. Approximately 40 members were taken on the trip, including the symphony orchestra,
the Davidsonians, the jazz orchestra, and the members of the cast of a comedy skit written by C. F. Smith.
The first concert was given at Spartanburg, on the night of the 23rd. The crowd was somewhat depleted due to
the fact that the girls from Converse College were quarantined by an influenza epidemic. The Spartanburg Herald, the morning paper
of Spartanburg, the next morning in its article covering the concert said that the organization was the best glee club
that had appeared in Spartanburg this season. From Spartanburg, the club went further southward to Gainesville, Ga., the site of
Brenau College. Here the Wildcat songbirds gave a concert on the night of the 24th. After the concert, the members
were entertained by the members of the Brenau Glee Club. On the following day, some of the members of the
club attended the meetings of the Southern Students International Relations Club conference. Thursday was spent on the campus at Brenau.
On Friday, the 26th, the songsters journeyed to Atlanta, where that night they gave a concert at the Atlanta Woman's
Club. The boys were entertained while in Atlanta by the Davidson alumni living in Atlanta. Several sight-seeing tours and entertainments
were given the members while staying in Atlanta. On Saturday, the club gave a concert in Decatur, Ga., at Agnes
Scott College. After (Continued on page 5)
