THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 18, 1926

PLAYING THE GAME
By Aubrey Brown

More Dope Upset Monk and Tex—Miracle Men Charlie’s Rabbit Feet Florida ’Gaitors Scheduled Prospects Good for Cagemen

Davidson again threw a wrench in the state championship mechanism and surprised many. But those who know Monk Younger and Tex Tilson and their fighting Wildcats were not surprised. When that plucky team got the jump on Carolina and put over a touchdown in the first nine minutes of the game, Wildcat stock soared to the skies. Those odds that were so promiscuous before were noticeable by their absence. We may fittingly call Tex and Monk “Miracle men.” During their four years here they have gradually developed a team that is no mean organization. Too much praise cannot be extended to them for their work and now every member of the student body, every alumnus, every member of the faculty, and admirers of Davidson everywhere, are greater worshippers of Coaches Younger and Tilson than ever.

The defeat of Carolina Saturday on Richardson Field was a reminder of last year’s game although the victors and vanquished were reversed. Davidson's hundred yards more came last year, when the Wildcats pushed over more first downs than the Tar Heels but failed to score. Carolina did the same thing this year. All due honor should be given Carolina, for, even though they did not win, they battled to the last. McPherson, who had played only ten minutes prior to the game Saturday and scored three touchdowns, failed to get his start. Schwartz was easily the star for Carolina. The coaches sent in three backfields but none could cross the Wildcat goal line.

The Davidson Wildcats seem to have been extremely lucky (?) in upsetting dope forecasts on their games this season. No doubt those people who saw the ’Cats “lick Carolina out of its boots” Saturday, thought of that. May we say lucky or not? Twice we have been doped to win and have lost both games. Twice again they have doped us to lose but strange to say the prophecies did not come true. Let’s hope that “those that be” will give the Blue Devils the edge in the fracas Thanksgiving.

Charlie’s rabbit feet, planted under each goal post seemed to have the desired effect. A touchdown was made across the north goal-line and then Dick Grey booted that beautiful drop-kick through the other goal-posts. Charlie and his rabbit feet are all right. The University was well represented at the game, having sent a snappy band and a host of rooters. For their number their yells were fine and the band deserves special mention. Dressed in dark coats and white trousers, and led by a wide-awake director, their appearance on the field between halves was impressive. Fine spirit prevailed all during the contest. The Tar Heel band complimented with “O Davidson,” and the R. O. T. C band played the Carolina anthem in return. Such spirit as was manifested should be encouraged.

The announcement that Davidson will meet Florida in Gainesville, Fla., was greeted with hurrahs by Davidsonians. This is the first statement as to Davidson’s widening out into other football circles and we are hoping that more will be forthcoming. Florida went down before Alabama 48-0 Saturday but they will be ready for a come-back next year. Having made a change in coaches recently, their system is, necessarily, not as intact as possible. No doubt the ’Gators will be casting hungry glances in the direction of the Wildcats next fall.

The call for cagemen has sounded and Wofford Harriers Lose to Fast Davidson Team Penn Wins Match, Running Three Miles in Eighteen Minutes—Course Excellent

Bohannon Deadly in Art of Receiving Aerial Heaves

McPHERSON STOPPED

The Davidson cross-country team completely outclassed the Wofford Harriers at Spartanburg last Friday by a score of 38 to 17. The time for the slightly more than three-mile course was 18 minutes. The course was almost ideal, having an equal up and down hill grade and varied surface. At the start Wofford took the lead and for the first half-mile held it but as the course began to take an up-hill grade Penn stepped out and Wofford men began to drop back. At the end of the second mile the whole Davidson team was in the lead, but determined not to be entirely outclassed, Moore, the Wofford captain, moved up three notches, and took fourth place, which he held for the rest of the run. At the finish the course straightened out and led into the athletic field to the finish line which was in front of the Wofford grandstand. The men came in in the following order: Penn, Treverton, Ely, Moore (Wofford), Martin, and Webb. The next four places being taken by Wofford men. The run was staged between the halves of the Wofford-Erskine football game.

Minor letters are to be awarded this year. At the end of the season Coach Tilson will recommend as many members of the team as he sees fit, however, a maximum has been set at 5, and these after the Athletic Council has voted on and passed will be awarded letters. The team has two more meets. The next being with Duke at Durham Thanksgiving and the last one at Chapel Hill on December 6th, in which all of the teams in the state will participate.

Five Varsity Men Out for Practice

About twelve men reported for varsity basketball practice on Monday, 8th. Five letter men, Anderson, Boggs, Harrison, Simpson, and Wilson are back, and prospects for a good team are very bright. Practices are being held every other day for the present, but daily practices will be started on Monday, and several varsity men are out for football, and will not be able to report for duty on the basketball squad until after Thanksgiving.| ing.’ After this, however, strict practice will be started, and the coaches expect Soule, Nisbet, and Grey to round into shape a team that will do well. Nesbit and Grey have always been two of the hardest driving and surest tackling backs in the state. A trip through South Carolina has been arranged. It will last five days, and on this trip, Citadel will be played twice, as well as the College of Charleston. On the return trip, Wofford will be played. In the line, McConnell and Pinckney seemed to run wild when a Tar Heel was in their neighborhood. Ritchie and Boggs were deadly and sure tacklers, adding their names to the hall of fame.

Five years ago this week, the fighting Wildcats, running true to form, upset the sporting world. When the Davidson and the N.C. State teams entered the field at Charlotte, the State Wolfpack was a heavy favorite. Most of the football fans of North Carolina had picked State as the sure winner. A prominent Davidson student and a loyal supporter of the team, when interviewed a few hours before the game, frankly said that in his opinion, State would be the easy victors, but he also said that the Wildcats would not go down without a real fight. And they didn’t. In fact, the Wildcats never went down. The final score was 3-3, but the game was in our favor. That tie meant more than a mere tie; it showed the sporting world that the Wildcat spirit was a real, living thing.

Captain La Far, at a guard position, and Shephard, a worthy predecessor of our own Dick Grey, were the stars of the day. Shephard’s field goal, late in the game, was a perfect score. Another try, a few minutes later, fell short by a few inches. The line-up and summary follow:

Score by quarters:
Carolina 0 0 0 0
Davidson 7 0 3 0—10

Summary: Scoring touchdown, Nisbet for Davidson; extra point, D. Grey from dropkick; field goal, D. Grey (Davidson). Substitutions: Carolina, Furches for Hill.

Carolina Position Davidson
McMurray LE Dye
Bohannon LT Lincoln
Morehead LG Mitchell
Whisnant (C) Center McConnell
Schwartz RG Boggs
Warren RT Ritchie
McDaniel RE Pinckney
Hackney QB Wilson
Ellison LH Wells (C)
Ferrell RH D. Grey
Jenkins FB Nisbet

The N.C. State Freshmen, using forward passes and end runs to a wonderful advantage, defeated the Davidson Wildkittens 13-0 in a hard-fought contest at Raleigh Saturday. The young Techmen put over a touchdown in the second quarter and another in the third. The state backfield worked smoothly and was led in their rushes by captain Warren, who registered the second touchdown. Leeka, playing halfback, scored the first touchdown. Kugler, playing quarterback, and Matthews at half, led the Wildkittens' attack. Matthews broke through the state line for several lengthy gains. Kugler displayed the fact Saturday that he means to be one of Coach “Monk’s” star safety men. He showed great headwork in receiving punts. The weak point of the Wildkittens seemed to be their inability to break up the State passes, many being completed for substantial gains. The Wildkittens threatened to score in the second quarter and were on State’s fifteen-yard line as the half ended. Although the Wildkittens came out with the small end of the score, they deserve praise for the splendid fight exhibited. The game was clean and hard-fought throughout. Davidson was not penalized during the entire game, and State only three times. The line-up follows:

Davidson Position State
Hampton LE Childress
Garson LT Lepo
Hin LG Mayfield
DeArmon Center Hardin
De Camp RG Jordan
McConnell RT Ricks
Peterson RE Lattimer
Matthews QB Leeka
Christian LH Warren
Kugler RH Adams
Brohard FB Jeffreys

DAVIDSON STUDENTS ARE INJURED (Continued from page 1)
His skull was fractured, and it is not known just how he will come out. Hamilton’s arm was run over, but he was not seriously hurt. The other boys who were thrown from the truck were scratched up a good bit, but none of them received any serious injury.

Golfers to Meet Statesville Team
Next Saturday, at one-third, the Davidson golf team will make its initial appearance with a match in Statesville. The team is composed of men who were picked by means of a tournament. These men are: McGill, Wolfe, Love, Martin, Wilson, and Mills. They will play in the order named. During the tournament which came to a close recently, the two men going into the finals both broke the college record. They came out on even terms, each having the same score on match play, while in medal play McGill made a score of 68 to Wolfe’s 69. McGill is the manager of the team and expects to have several more matches in the near future. No captain has been selected to date, but one will probably be chosen in the next few weeks. Statesville has been doing some good work so far this year and promises to give the local team a hard fight. A return match has been assured us, this match to be played on the Davidson course. Three freshmen are members of the team this year and have shown up exceptionally well. Love has been the most consistent in his play so far.

The word “tight” has two meanings, both of which are suggested by the word “Scotch.” Bill Covington says that he gets mighty homesick for his mother’s pies, but it’s his father’s dough that keeps him away.

WE RENT
Tuxedos, Full Dress
Any Costume or Wig
SOUTHERN COSTUME SHOPPE
17 South Tryon Street
Over Brown’s Restaurant

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

Men have decidedly emphatic ideas of what they require of footwear now—and the number of satisfied Gilmer-Moore customers are continually increasing. Fall lines for young men? They’re the best we’ve ever had!

SHOES
“Since 1808 the Home of Good Shoes”
We Never Hear a Man Ask for “Just Anything” in Footwear Nowadays

Gilmer-Moore Company
HOSIERY LUGGAGE

Introducing to the readers of the Union of the New Testament in the Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia, Rev. Eugene C. Caldwell, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Biblical Literature and the Interpretation.