THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1926

INITIAL TRYOUTS
(Continued from page 1)

in November, as a financial aid. They will also furnish entertainment at the movies each week. The officers for the
year are: J. S. MacRae, president; J. S. Foster, vice-president and manager of the quartet; E. L. Douglas, vice president
and manager of the “entremes,” Caldwell Withers, advance agent and advertising manager, and W. O. Green, business manager, or between
act numbers.

“Since 1868 The Home of Good Shoes”

Boy---Howdy! Glad to have you back. Big summer, and all that? Fine! Full o’ pep and hi’ purposes this year?
More fine! Well, walk through your shoes, if you come see us, GILMER-MOORE CO.

Monk Mattox Pleased by Showing Made by Fresh in Two Weeks Training

Wildkitten Coach States That Material Better and More Experienced Than Last Year

When interviewed concerning the prospects of the 1926 Wildkitten football eleven, Coach Mattox seemed to be very well pleased with
the general outlook. Although attempting to maintain the traditional aspect of gloom characteristic of Wildcat coaches, the Fresh mentor admitted
that the material this year is much more encouraging than that of last year. The line is much heavier than
that of any first-year team for several years, while the backs seem to have both speed and drive in the
first work-outs.

In the first scrimmages with the varsity, Mathews and Christian, at halfback, Carson and Hampton, at tackle, Hunt, at guard,
and DeArmond, at center, were the luminaries. One of the men who has made a good impression on the coach
is McConnell, husky tackle, who looks good on both defensive and offensive work. In the backfield, Hammette's punting and the
passing of Hampton have attracted much attention.

Among the other aspirants who are expected to show up well in competition for the various berths are: Kugler and
Hammette, at quarter; Mathews, Christian and Petterson, at halfback positions; King, Goodman, Newman, fullbacks; Mills, Dobbins, Kirkland, Mauzy and Smith,
ends; Carson, McConnell and Hampton, tackles; Hunt, DeCamp, Beaver, Reynolds, Brohard and Brown, guards; DeArmond and Warren, centers.

In the schedule, the Fresh meet half of their opponents on their home grounds. Five of last year.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Caldwell Withers

The offensive played almost brilliantly at times, only to lapse occasionally, while the defensive end of the team was not
tried. Led by the slashing attack of Captain Wells and Wade Leggette, the Wildcats soon displayed their superiority over the
Christians. The defensive wall of the Davidson men were McConnell at center and Melton at guard. These two men often
stopped the Elon attack before it could get under way.

The only noticeable strong points in Wofford, Davidson's opponent for the week, suffered severely by graduation of a number of
letter men last June. But the South Carolina Methodists still have a strong outfit. The 21 to 0 score by
which V. M. I. defeated them Saturday is somewhat misleading as two of the cadets’ touchdowns resulted from plays of
an unusual nature. The final count between Davidson and Wofford will be very close.

Although the Freshmen have not a game until well into October, Coach Monk Mattox has been driving his charges hard
in the first two weeks of practice. In a practice scrimmage with the varsity last week, Hampton and Carson, at
tackles; Hunt, guard, and DeArmond, center, played the best for the Wildkittens. The two tackles are big men and both
have seen experience on good prep school teams. Carson was on the winning Gastonia team last fall, while Hampton, who
is also a punter of ability, played at Raeford.

The main problem for Coach Mattox to solve seems to be to develop a guard, two ends and to train
his backfield men in defensive work. Hammette, of Anderson, S. C.; Mathews, of Rock Hill; Christian and Reynolds appear to
be the outstanding candidates for the backfield positions. These men are having to work hard to keep their places as
there are several other likely Freshmen in the running.

Davidson supporters, as well as the entire state, will be interested in the outcome of the Wake Forest-Carolina game this
Saturday. The defeat of the University last fall at the hands of the Deacons came as a surprise to most
of the followers of the game.| It would be some feat for the Baptists to down the Tar Heels for
the third consecutive time. Tackles played the best ball for Wofford last Saturday. That would indicate that the Methodists have
a strong line, and this, in contrast with the Wildcats’ front wall, admittedly the weakest in several years, does not
sound any too encouraging for Davidson. A dispatch from Wofford to The Davidsonian states: “It is to be well predicted
that Wofford will tuck away several games on the win column. We don’t claim to have a championship team, neither
do we expect to be tail-enders. Major and Boatwright.” Games have been arranged while a sixth one is pending. The
following is the schedule:

Oct. 16—Furman Fresh at Davidson.
Oct. 23—Blue Ridge at Hendersonville.
Oct. 30—Open.
Nov. 5—Duke Fresh at Davidson.
Nov. 13—N. C. State Fresh at Raleigh.
Nov. 20—P. C. Fresh at Davidson.

With the first game of the 1926 season safely tucked away, the Wildcats entered this week upon a period of
intensive training in preparation for the game this Saturday with Wofford at Spartanburg. The strength shown by the Davidson football
team last Saturday was encouraging. Captain Lawton, guard, Austin, and Lever played the best ball for Wofford. That would indicate
that the Methodists have a strong line, and this, in contrast with the Wildcats’ front wall, admittedly the weakest in
several years, does not sound any too encouraging for Davidson.

A real test will be given the Wildcat eleven this coming Saturday when they leave Richardson Field for the first
time this season for foreign fields. The ’Cats will travel to Spartanburg, S. C., where the plucky Wofford Terriers will
be waiting with a full afternoon program for their guests. Davidson followers will be anxious about the Wofford game until
the final whistle is blown and are viewing it with a sober and anxious eye. For the past three years,
the Terriers and Wildcats have had it nip and tuck, and it has been only by the closest margins that
the latter have emerged victorious. Davidson gained a 7-0 verdict in last year’s game, but in reality, the game was
much closer than the score indicated.

Coach Monk Younger, the Wildcat mentor, has been driving his charges with vim and vigor this week. He admitted that
the team showed up very well against Elon with the exception of the second quarter, but added that the Wofford
eleven would be a hard nut to crack. The Davidson line-up will be about the same as last Saturday’s. Charlie
Harrison will play halfback. It is hoped Harry Goodykoontz, who strained a ligament in practice last week, will be able
to break into the game. About 30 men will make the trip by bus, leaving either Friday afternoon or Saturday
morning. The game will be played on the Wofford College athletic field.

The probable line-ups are as follows:

Davidson. Position. Wofford.
Player .................. LE ................. Austin
Lawton ................. LT ................. Sage
McConnell .......... Center .......... King
Hook .................... RG ................. Lever
Lincoln ................. RT ................. Sprarnell
Sappenfield ........ ORT ............. Wright
Harrison .............. LH ................. Kirkley
Fleming ............... RH ................. Dean

ANNUAL STAFF (Continued from page 1)
Information blanks for student honors were given out to Juniors and Seniors the first week, and other departments of the
pictures.

DAVIDSON TEAMS (Continued from page 1)
The places of these men will be hard to fill. The most likely looking man from the Freshman team is
Ratchford, of Gastonia, a fielder. The team will be hard up this year for pitchers. In track, the prospects do
not seem much better. Anderson, Williford, and Penn are missing from the team of last year, but several men from
the Freshman squad are expected to win places on the team. Captain Goodykoontz hopes to escape the jinx that has
hung over our track captains for the last few years but has made a bad start by getting an injured
ankle in football practice. It is rumored that John Currie will be back in college after the first semester, and
he will greatly strengthen the squad.

MISS VICTORIA WITHERS
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Box 427

There’s a treat for you and your children in the Peppermint sugar jacket and another in the Peppermint-flavored gum inside—that
is WRIGLEY’S P. K. utmost value in long-lasting delight.

TO TELL YOU THEY’RE GOOD
Wrigley’s aids digestion and makes the next cigar taste better. Try it After Every Meal.

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Drinks Candy Smokes
Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N. C.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men
