THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH............ Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. BRANCH................................. Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON......................... Assistant Managing Editor
F. K. BELL........................................ Assistant Managing Editor
W. B. MINTON................................. Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER................................. Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE.................................... Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH............. Associate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN.................. Associate Editor
J. B. WEBB....................................... Alumni Editor
H. L. SHELBY.................................. Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
H. D. BURKE.................................... Business Manager
W. H. LANGDON.......................... Assistant Business Manager
V. S. BRYANT................................. Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER....................... Circulation Manager
E. D. SLOAN.................................... Subscription Manager
E. L. ANDERSON........................... Assistant Subscription Manager
JULIAN LAKE................................ Service Department
M. P. CRAWFORD......................... Assistant Service Department

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
T. T. JONES
V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres.
W. L. LINGLE
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas.
B. MARTIN
W. H. ALLISON
R. H. McILWAINE
H. M. AUSTIN
J. P. McKNIGHT
C. L. BRAGAW
A. M. SPARROW
D. M. CALHOUN
L. F. WHARTON
W. T. COVINGTON
J. WILSON
W. T. DAVIS
C. WITHERS
W. S. GORDON
W. S. WOODS
JOHN GWIN
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH

EDITORIAL

Junior Speaking and the girls!
One will have to sit up late to see the moon rise these nights — but then who cares?
The present staff will have charge of the paper for only two more issues and it will then release its hold to that of the newly-elected staff.
The Davidsonian greets its little sister publication, SANITY RARE, which makes its second bow to the world this week. It is brim-full of healthy and original humor.
The baseball team seems to be getting on its legs at last after suffering a relapse of several months. The track team’s looking good also.
We haven’t had a chance to congratulate Harllee Branch on his election to the editorship of this paper. We feel sure that this pen will continue on its present successful career during the reign of this next editor.
Echoes from the Ideal Girl contest recently conducted here are being heard in divers parts of the country. Carolina wrote us to find out all about the proper methods of instigating a contest of this nature.

JUNIOR SPEAKING
Once again the cycle of days rolls around and that gladsome time of the year is here with us, Junior Speaking. Those visions of loveliness about whom we have dreamed for many days have actually appeared here on our campus and their presence has filled our hearts with joy. This is the one occasion during the year when there is a wealth of social entertainment for Davidson students who have been denied such diversions during many bleak months preceding. Even nature smiles in her attempts to further the good times by graciously bestowing blue skies and balmy days. There are some who bemoan the fact that Davidson has so few advantages to offer in a well-rounded social life. It is true that there are not those things here which promote so-called society, and non-fraternity men, especially, feel the lack of social centers and places of recreation. But Junior Speaking is meant just for that lack of social life here during the remainder of the months. We hope that there will be soon inaugurated a social function of this type during the fall months when football is in its ascendancy. That is the time when all feel the urge to mingle with persons of the opposite sex. But during this time of the glorious spring days, one can make up for things he may have missed before. Greetings to the visitors.

GREETINGS, FAIR VISITORS
To all those southern belles who have consented to grace our campus with their beauty, The Davidsonian extends its best greetings for this joyous Springtime season. It is at this time of the year that we feel the creep of new blood in our veins and we rejoice in the holidays that give us a chance to throw off the solemn mantle of winter severity and austereness. May there be entertainment, fun, happiness, pleasure and delightful companionship in abundance. Welcome to our midst.

SPRING
Spring is here. Swirling water from melted snow fills brooks and little ponds. The ground is soft underfoot. From the tender blue sky above comes the honk of the wild geese that make a flying wedge of black above the green of the pines. Their echo is heard by the robin as he eyes the clod with inquisitive eye and searches for a worm. The bluebird flits from limb to twig, its burnished red breast offering a contrast to the turquoise sheen of its back. From the soft mass of pink peach blossoms comes the cheery tweet of the wren as she seeks a new nesting site. A petal sifts to the ground and a new lamb gives chase. A dandelion struggles for recognition among the showy purple of the violets. Warm sun on the freshly-turned soil—a delicious haze on the distant woods—the scent of a blossoming pear tree—cackling hens in the yard—flying golf balls on the green—garden catalogs in the mails—fishing-tackle in the windows—two lovers strolling down the lane arm in arm—a full moon touching the eastern hill with silver—a quivering breeze from the orchard, laden with a perfume that intoxicates one more than old wine. Spring is here.

DRAMATICS
There is a crying need for a course in Dramatics at Davidson. The local organization known as the Davidson Dramatic Club is doing a good work with the poor advantages that it has, but the interest in this work is high enough to warrant an expansion. The organization here has little more than a name and a number of enthusiastic members who are willing to sacrifice their time for the advancement of dramatic work. One has but to see the results of Professor Koch’s work at Carolina to realize that such endeavor is leaving a very real impression upon all with whom it has come in contact. The players there have advertised both their university and their state. Davidson has the talent and the enthusiasm necessary to write and produce as good plays as any the Playmakers have ever presented. But we do need a course in playwriting and stagecraft here, and a full-time director who can train and instruct those who have this work at heart.

ELECTIONS
Something is radically wrong when only four hundred men out of almost six hundred cast votes at a student body election. Such was the case at the election held last Saturday morning to choose the editor for The Davidsonian of next year. Is the trouble in the lack of interest or in pure, unadulterated laziness? Those who didn’t vote when there were ballots at hand, and when the names had been given as plain as could be—well, we wonder how they will get along when they have to shift for themselves and there is no one to pull the wires. A vote here means as much as it does anywhere. Everyone has this privilege of helping to choose the leaders here, and everyone should take full advantage of it. You owe it to your fellow students and to the college to vote wisely. Do that thing in the few remaining elections that are to be held.

Only two more months or a little more to go and about a hundred Seniors will leave Davidson after a four years’ sojourn. We wonder if they have gotten their education yet, or have they more to come to them?

If the people who danced the square dance were square, and the people who danced the shimmy were shaky, please tell us what’s wrong with the folks who’ve taken to theCharleston. The latest thing on the Davidson campus with which to entertain visiting young ladies is the game of marbles. Knuckle down is the order of the day now.

Open Forum

Recently, the athletic authorities of Davidson have inaugurated the policy of assigning junior managers in one sport to junior managership in another sport, after their failure to be elected to the senior managership of their respective sport. This policy has been severely censured by the majority of the campus leaders. Moreover, junior managers in every major sport at Davidson, on being interviewed, have objected strenuously to this method. They consider that a junior manager who has failed to be elected senior manager in his sport should drop out entirely and not attempt to compete with a man who has worked three years in his respective sport and thus cut him out of his opportunity to be elected senior manager. The four varsity or major sports at Davidson are supposed to be on an equal basis and should be viewed in that light. Just why, when a man has been eliminated from one sport, they should place him in another sport, thus putting him on an equal footing with the junior managers of that sport who have worked three years to reach their positions, is what is so severely criticized by the majority of the students. They do not like this method because they consider that when a man has worked three years in one sport, he, and he alone, should be considered for the senior managership, and not a man who has failed to be elected senior manager in his sport.

J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH.

Inquiring Reporter

Q. Do you think that it would be of any advantage to have regular dances in the gymnasium chaperoned by faculty members and their wives?

A. Caldwell Withers: It is by all means advisable. It is the one thing that practically every member of the student body would be interested in.

Pat Harmon: They ought to have dances down there without any chaperones at all. Davidson men ought to have honor enough to behave without any supervision.

Harold Burke: I think so.

A. Yancy Bowie: I refuse to be quoted on the subject. Well, I might as well have said something as have you put that down.

A. Hayden Hollingsworth: I do not; however, there is a great deal of room for improvement in social life on the campus.

C. G. Baskerville: I think it would be a great social asset to the college.

Hebe McIlwaine: I think it would be, but don’t put this in The Davidsonian.

Bill McCuen: Absolutely.

Kenneth Bell: I think it would be a good idea. I can see no harm in college dances when properly chaperoned.

E. K. Regen: So far as social development of men at Davidson, I think it would be good, because it’s far better than to have men leave the campus to go to improperly chaperoned dances.

C. F. Smith: Yes, sir! Dancing under proper conditions and properly chaperoned would provide social relaxation for men who dance and who would otherwise go to various nearby towns to attend dances. Why not?

Minor Chords

SLANDER

O, Slander, thou goddess of infamy,
Beneath whose unforbearing feet,
My heart is crushed and ground to dust,
Unable to arise again from the depths of
Stinging sorrow to which it has been cast
By thy atrocious tyranny.

O unrelenting foe to life and love,
Withdraw thy incompassionate curse,
That for one brief moment of respite,
This heart of mine might live again,
Beneath the kindliness it once knew.

The sullen, ruthless, and stony-hearted
Prostitution of thy inexorable torture,
Has left this life devoid of all emotions,
Has made of it a soulless nonentity,
Bankrupt of life and revolting against affection.

I prithee step aside once more,
That I again may radiate the love,
I once felt for all mankind,
And that I might again escape the gloomy darkness
Of my present agonizing pain and destitution.

—Harllee Branch, Jr.

And it’s time too, to have that job for the summer all fixed. When the first balmy days of June roll along, the places will have been mostly taken and nice openings for young men will be scarce as ranchers in Florida.

These radio-fanciers who woo the ethereal muse in the wee sma’ hours of the night are not so much concerned with getting the wrong numbers as they are with wondering what the wild waves will warble.

Advertisements

WHAT WE'D LIKE TO SEE—
The girls with a fisher body.
The most beautiful car in America.
The table that boiling water won’t hurt.
The one out of five who doesn’t have it.
Coles Phillips’ model girl.
The BULL DURHAM bull.
Anything we'd walk a mile for.
The face of the Dutch Cleaner dame.
The man who stands up in his underwear at the ball game.
Mr. Addison Sims from Seattle.
Lydia E. Pinkham.

Yes, Hortense is a very questionable sort of girl. She’s the kind who wants to know what the other 56-100 part of Ivory soap is.

A Saponaceous Affair

SAPOLIO, the big but beauteous buckaroo, sighed as he stood outside the window of the little FAIRY’S home in the gaudy moonlight. He had freshly shaved and the lather hung in scintillating globules from his stubby Mennen’s beard. The FAIRY came to the window as he called, “Are you listening my little CUTICURA?”

“You must be off your IVORY, SAPOLIO,” she said. “Of course I'm listening to my big butter and yegg man.”

“Here's a CASHMERE BOUQUET for my little BONCILLA,” he said, as he deftly threw a bunch of cauliflower in her face.

“Aw, JERGEN,” she muttered between mouthfuls of COLGATES.

He reached up to the window with his teeth clenched in a death-like grip. He sobbed audibly. “Let me hold your PALMOLIVE. My life would be BLACK AND WHITE without you. My heart is burning like LAVA for you. Let’s build a castle in old CASTILE where the dons and the Juans fight the bulls. My little BON AMI, let’s make a clean sweep.”

“LUX against us,” she blubbered as she freed herself from his watery grasp. “We can never put over a BIG DEAL until I ask GRANDPA’S permission.”

“Who? Old Hendrick Van Goort, the window washer? Why I’m not afraid of that OLD DUTCH CLEANSER. I'll kick him clean to RESINOL.”

She fell into his heart and arms at the same time. “Wait till I get a WOODBURY’S FACIAL,” she said. They then silently compared unkissable lips, PEBECO teeth and that school girl’s complexion.

There’s a fat chance of a big, 300-pound Carnation Milk-fed hay and grain merchant ever reducing so that he can sit comfortably behind the steering wheel of a flivver.

The boy from the old home town who learned how to play the accordion by note from a correspondence school in sixty days, also learned how to raise three notes and to play the Bars and Stripes Forever in durance vile.

Famous Sayings

AW RATS—The Pied Piper of Hamelin.
IS IT HOT ENOUGH FOR YOU?—Dante.
ALL ALONE—Robinson Crusoe.
COMING CLEAN—Lady Godiva.
OH BOY!—Eve.
DAD BURN IT!—Nero.

OH—Say, do you know Miss Orange?
BOY—Yes. I’ve got quite a crush on her.
She—I heard you were in the trousers business? What's the latest dope on trousers.
HE—Well, I spilled a Coca-Cola on my new Oxford bags this afternoon.

Employer (to prospective employee)—“Do you drink, smoke, chew, play cards or...?”
Prospective Employee—“No sir. I have no feminine tendencies.”

The Davidsonian feels and realizes the need for more attention to be paid to our co-eds. The Technician has instituted a Co-Ed Column which is filled with the doings of their four young ladies over at the Farmers’ Institute. All Davidson needs is a writer competent to observe our co-eds’ habits and their social life and then report—in the most direct and straightforward manner possible.

The train announcer at the Southern depot in Charlotte was fired the other day—he called three trains so that almost anyone could understand what he was saying.