THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 21, 1926

FRESHMEN FINISH ANNUAL ELECTIONS
(Continued from page 1)

bined positions of secretary and treasurer. Other nominations were: Black, Flynn, Hill, Jarman, Kane, Kelly, McGeachy, McGill, Pritchett, and Williams. Roddy won on the second ballot, his majority being somewhere near 50 votes. Roddy, a Beta Theta Pi pledge, comes from Rock Hill, S. C. He has been attracting no little attention because of his ability as a tennis player. Both have shown marked ability in scholastic and outside work. The Freshmen used excellent judgment in selecting their leaders. With Covington as president, and with Kell and Roddy to help him, the affairs of the class rest in hands fully capable of leading it through a successful term.

For prompt and satisfactory service visit Paul Richardson’s Barber Shop 202 S. Church St.

COUGHS
Every few hours swallow slowly small pieces of Vicks the size of a pea. Melt a little in a spoon and inhale the vapors.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

benefit as well as pleasure. Healthful exercise for the teeth and a spur to digestion. A long-lasting refreshment, soothing to nerves and stomach.
The Great American

Fellows: You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station Davidson, N. C.

On the first ballot all were eliminated except Roddy, Kane,

Prof.—“Mr. Earnhardt, what does sea water contain besides sodium chloride?”
J. J.—“Fish, sir.”

The modern girl may have her faults, but at least she’s not effeminate.

Ham—“Why does an Indian wear feathers on his head?”
Eggs—“Well, why does he?”
Ham—“To keep his wig warm.”

“I had a dream last night.”
“Well—”
“But the heat woke me up.”

Our weekly dumbbell—The girl who wanted to know what kind of a vegetable a policeman’s beat is.

“Listen, Abie, vy iss id dot chu keep on going mid dot goil vot effrybody in town kisses?”
“But, Ikey, dere iss only two thousand people in diss town.”

“Do you care for horses?”
“No, I wait on a table.”

DAPPER DAN SAYS
“No, my old man wasn’t a policeman, but he did go around with them a good deal.”

“Hey, waiter, this steak is tough.”
“Sir, we are not responsible for the morals of our food.”

She was a garbage man’s daughter—that’s why I’m in the dumps.

“Do you serve hard-boiled eggs here?”
“Yes, as long as they behave themselves.”

“What’s your reason for wanting to marry me?”
“I love you.”
“That’s no reason, that’s an excuse.”

She—“Darling, you promised to show me how to play cards tonight, so that I can play after we are married. What are you going to teach me?”
He—“Solitaire.”

“What’s good for a headache?”
“Stick your head in a tub of cold water three times and pull it out twice.”

Prof.—“I’m tempted to give you zero.”
Stude—“Yield not to temptation.”

Judge—“What did you hit the man with?”
Prisoner—“With a tomato, sir.”
Judge—“A tomato? Why he has been in the hospital three months.”
Prisoner—“Well, your honor, the tomato did have a can around it.”

Little drops of water
Added to the milk
Keep the hashhouse lady
Dressed in lace and silk.

GOOD AIM
“I hear Mrs. Dumbwitt’s husband is dead. Did she miss him?”
“No, that’s why he is dead.”

“You ought to be proud to be the father of such a large family,” said the college president to a visiting parent.
“Large family? What do you mean?”
“Why your daughter has had eleven of her brothers here this fall to take her out.”

The sot had walked into the elevator at the elevator floor. When the elevator boy slowed up for the third floor he could stand it no longer.
“Let me out of this machine. I'm through!”
“Oh come on, now,” said the boy, “We're nearly down. Surely you can stand three more short stories.”
The polluted one paused, “All right, as long as they're good snappy ones.”

Prof.—“When was the revival of learning?”
McComb—“Just before exams, sir.”

HOW IS IT
That a man can leave college a confirmed woman hater, and return two weeks later with a picture and a book of special delivery stamps together with the hottest line you ever heard about the prettiest girl in the world? I ask you again, how is it?

STAIRS
I had a gal
Named Lizzie Brown,
But, believe me, sir,
She threw me down.

He—“Have you ever let any other man kiss you?”
She—“Never, Henry—only a few college boys.”

Jake—“Do you believe in free love?”
Mary—“Yes, but try to get it!”

The height of laziness was displayed last week by the fellow who spilt soup in his lap and did not care which leg it ran down.

The early bird has to shake up the furnace.

I once had a bottle of Canada Dry—
Most expensive that money could buy,
But I hired a feller
To sweep out the cellar—
I once had a bottle of Canada Dry.

In summer when the moon is low
Upon the hills the fairies go
To wood and dell—but me, oh—Simply grab the nearest gal— Forget the fairies when I shout Above the jazz, “Let’s sit this out!”

A man was an inmate at the hospital for mental cases. He sat with a fishing pole and line, letting the hook hang down into a flower bed. “How many fish have you caught?” asked an attendant who passed. “You're the ninth,” was the prompt reply.

“It’s the same old skin game,” said the senior as he grabbed the dip before it could be jerked back.

RAZOR RIGHT
“Gillette her do that?”
“No.”
“Well, you Auto-Strop her.”

“I hear you engaged that freshman in a game of chance.”
“No, sir, he didn’t even have a chance.”

YOU TELL ’EM
A thing of beauty keeps you broke forever.

We were just wondering if a girls’ boarding school is an institution of yearning?

“Did you see ‘Daddy Long Legs’?”
“No, I never attend those burlesque shows.”

Christian Citizenship is Theme of Prominent State Jurist’s Address
Charlotte Lawyer is Speaker at First Service of New Year

At the first vesper services after Christmas, Judge W. F. Harding, of Charlotte, addressed the students in a very practical and straightforward manner on the subject of “Christian Citizenship.” Judge Harding was introduced by Prof. A. Currie as one of the most prominent and well-beloved jurists of this state, and as a man who through his profession was acquainted with the problems which confront young men.

In his opening remarks Judge Harding said: “Christian citizenship is a thing for which Davidson and all other institutions, both of the Church and State, must stand.” The Church and State each spend millions of dollars every year from which they do not expect the return of a single penny; they invest the millions every year spent for education in the lives of its future citizens with the expectation of a large return of Christian citizenship.

“Civilization,” the speaker continued, “has from its beginning attempted to build upon itself better civilization. Each step for good organized government has been made by organized government.” Law is absolutely necessary for organized government. The fundamental law of our government is the Constitution together with the State constitutions and all common law carried over from England. From these and the laws derived by their authority comes every right which one can possess, except two, which are the right to breathe the air and the right of a man to be the father of his own children. The right to marry, to work, to own property, and the value of money all are due to the Constitution. Also, all property is protected by the Constitution. If government gives so much to its citizens, the least that they can do is to obey the law.

There is a great need of the honest-to-goodness willingness to obey the law because it is the law. “The most pernicious doctrine,” the speaker declared, “that is spreading itself in the United States today, is that it is no harm for a person to violate the law when he knows he won't get caught.” There are two classes of citizens, those above the average, and those below the average. When civilization fails, it will be due to those above the average who violate the law. Those below the average are watching those above and using them as examples, thus making those above responsible for their violations.

“It is the college men of today who will be the telling force in the future. They will govern, make laws, and perhaps restate doctrines. A king once said, “Fear God and keep His commandments, for this is the whole duty of man.” He, being a statesman, meant that they should have reverence for authority and respect for the law. Jesus said: “I come not to destroy the law, but to fulfill it.” Jesus recognized that government was necessary and that law was necessary for government. Do right because it is right is the only way to obey the law. The one hundred percent American is the man who says, “So help me God, I will obey the law whether the police are watching or not.”

In his concluding remarks Judge Harding said, “Government is God working in men. Law is the rule of God working among men. Christianity is more than a religion, more than a philosophy, more than a science, it is life itself. It is a call to natural life as it was before sin was known in the world.”

(Continued on page 5)

Prices have taken a decided drop here! 30% discount on hundreds of young men’s suits. Same thing on young men’s overcoats. One group of $9 to $12.50 shoes at $5. Our Manhattan shirt sale starts today which knocks them down 25%. One big case of felt hats at $3.50 each---worth lots more. Looking at it from your side, it’s a great time to buy---and this is a great place to buy from.

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
DRUGS AND SUPPLIES
“Prescriptions a Specialty”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

WILDCATS!
You'll find a complete line of college men’s supplies here, including memory books, pennants, candies, cigarettes, etc., etc.
---COME IN---
The Student Store
“It’s Yours---Why Not Patronize It?”