THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 16, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of Entere

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. .......... Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES ............ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. LINGLE .......... Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN .......... Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS .......... Athletic Editor
D. M. CALHOUN .......... Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY .......... Humorous Editor
W. S. GORDON .......... Assignment Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS .......... Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD .......... Assistant Business Manager
V. L. ALBRIGHT .......... Subscription Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY .......... Circulation Manager
W. T. COVINGTON .......... Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
W. S. GORDON
JOHN GWIN
T. T. JONES
C. C. MURCHISON
H. M. AUSTIN
W. T. DAVIS
R. H. McILWAINE
JOHN MORIARTY
J. P. McKNIGHT
B. F. McQUEEN
A. M. SPARROW
C. R. LAKE
J. G. WHARTON
R. R. KANE
B. WILSON

EDITORIAL

Students will do well to re-read the text of President Martin’s address which is printed in this issue. There is
much food for thought contained within the President’s discourse, and many students will want to save a copy of his
address. It abounds in good sound advice, worthy of the serious consideration of all the students.

No room for complaint can be found in some of the single rooms of our dormitories.

“Nick” Sappenfield and “Sook” Boggs back in the Wildcat line-up—“Wick” Black in the infirmary with pneumonia. Just when we think
we can afford to be most optimistic, something happens to blur our outlook. Cruel Fate!

Students who knew and loved George Herman Weld will be grieved to hear of his death during the early summer
at his home at Altamont, N. C. Weld was a member of the Class of ’28, and his loss is
mourned by his classmates and other students alike.

SHALLOW WELLS

H. G. Wells, brilliant British historian and learned author, finds his reputation for wisdom tottering under an avalanche of criticism
which has followed the publication of his latest article, an editorial in which he brands Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard, and Yale
as “annual cricket, boat-race, baseball and football centers,” where he declares intellectual activity is subordinated to a main business of
attracting, boarding, and amusing adolescents.

His editorial is criticized not so much because of the radical charges which he brings against the four leading American
and British institutions of higher education as it is because of the general indictment which he places against all colleges
and universities. To call four years at college “wasted” may serve to secure for Mr. Wells an audience, but if
he really intended to start a movement that would culminate in the abandonment of the colleges and universities in America
and England, his latest outburst will be as fruitless as those skeptic articles in which he formerly launched a vehement
attack against marriage, religion, and established government.

Some of the things that Mr. Wells has said in his editorials are undoubtedly true, but he has made a
“mountain of a mole-hill.” In spite of his ruthless criticism of the colleges and universities, these institutions will continue to
grow and be filled with ambitious and aspiring youth. To place a boy of 15 or 16 years of age
in the world to earn a livelihood, as Mr. Wells deems expedient, would mean the placing of the youth of
the land in a position where all of the romance and idealism of youth would be quickly swept aside and
disastrously supplanted with the materialism of the world.

It is true that too many men and women go to college, and that this excess is resulting in a
lot of mediocre men and women who an efficient method of selectivity would remedy this defect. It is also true
to a limited extent that many American and English colleges are stressing athletics to the subordination of the intellect and
personality of the student, but this evil is also capable of an easy remedy. Statistics show that the majority of
our leaders in every walk of life have come out of these institutions, and despite Mr. Wells’ well-meant criticism, the
colleges and universities of our land will continue to produce the leadership of the industrial and professional worlds. Meanwhile, the
leading thinkers and educators are undisturbed by the lamentations of our British critic and are continuing their efforts to discover
and remove the waste in material and methods and to so modify the life of the student, the campus atmosphere,
the courses and methods of instruction as to make student life a safe, systematic, and direct route to leadership in
every phase of human usefulness.

The pathway to achievement will ever lead through the school room, and years of patient effort and application will always
be the price of mental achievement and racial progress. Mr. Wells has waded in too deeply where the sharks of
public opinion are threatening to nibble away at his tottering limbs and to some day completely upset his reputation.

TO THE NEW MEN

A new page in the book of life has been opened to the hundreds of freshmen who so recently passed
through the portals of Davidson College and took up their abode in the dormitories of the campus. At that time
it will be a page to which today’s freshman may turn with pride and pleasure or perhaps it may be
fraught with failure and defeat. Each man determines what shall be written on his page!

Davidson offers bountiful opportunity to the ambitious student to demonstrate his abilities and develop his talents. No college in the
world boasts a more consecrated and inspiring faculty. No college can claim a more democratic and devoted student body. What
is lacking at Davidson in financial wealth and equipment is more than made up for in the wealth of opportunities
for the development of the man.

In the very beginning, the wise freshman will “hitch his wagon to a star,” and will aim resolutely toward the
achievement of his chosen goal. Perhaps you will aspire to athletic prowess, scholastic accomplishment, social prestige, or oratorical excellence. But,
you should not follow any one of these at the sacrifice of the others. Athletic achievement will bring you popularity
and esteem, but without a high standard of scholastic proficiency, you will not be well-rounded. So it is with the
other lines of student activity. Each is good, but all are necessary.

At home there are parents and interested people, who are undergoing great sacrifices that you may remain in college and
secure the training that will fit you for a place of usefulness and leadership. They are gambling on your life,
betting on your ability and your chances of success—and the stakes are high! A race horse strains every fibre of
his being to come home a winner for his backer, surely a human being can do no less.

Make friends with the boys in your own class and the other classes, but choose slowly. The friends you make
in your freshman year largely determine your associates for all four years of your college life, and to a great
extent they will influence your whole life. Be sure that you pick the men who will inspire you to better
things, don’t choose the fellows who will drag you downward. The good and the bad are at Davidson just as
they are anywhere else.

Get interested in some definite line of student activity, choosing it with an eye to your future. Follow those pursuits
which will best fit you for your chosen vocation. If you contemplate law, or the ministry, or teaching, you will
want to join a literary society and take part in the forensic contests. If your life work is to be
business, you will want to enter into the business work of your college publications or the managership of the college
athletic teams. Choose carefully and make your progress steady rather than rapid.

Live within your means! Your fellow students will admire you more if you do only those things which you can
afford. Debt will prove a disastrous worry and living beyond your means a costly dissipation. At no time during life
is a student better able to learn himself than during the four years he spends in college. Study yourself, the
time ofmight better stay at home and produce, but in more different environments in which you are placed, seek to
discover the influence of different associates on your conduct, and if at the end of four years you have done
nothing more than learn to know yourself, you have profited much. Learn also to know your fellow man, and be
careful of the way in which you judge others. Don’t expect too much from your associates. If you are not
perfect, do not expect perfection in the fellows with whom you mingle. Look for the important qualities of character, don’t
judge your friends by little things that mean nothing. When you learn to know yourself and also to know your
fellow man, you are capable of leadership, until then your success will be doubtful. Make every minute of every day
count for something! Put first things first, and in the end, your page will not be marred by words of
failure. Yours will be success, and college will have been a profitable experience. No class ever entered Davidson at a
more promising time than the Class of ’30. You are entering Davidson just when the college is on the threshold
of a great transitional era of unparalleled growth and development. Your class will undoubtedly see Davidson go from the stage
of a “small college” to that of a much larger institution, during which time the college will increase both in
its enrollment, in its facilities, and in its usefulness! The Davidsonian welcomes you into your new estate, and congratulates you
on the privileges you are to enjoy as a student in the college!

Open Forum

COURTESY

The noise and disturbance that was so noticeable among several groups of upperclassmen in chapel last Monday morning during the
delivery of the President's annual address leads The Davidsonian to call attention at this time to the need for more
courtesy among our students. It was both ill-mannered and disrespectful for college men to act as some students behaved last
Monday, and it was a not-to-be-desired reflection on the gentlemanly reputation of Davidson men. Freshmen, just entering college, might have
been excused to some extent for creating such a disturbance in view of the fact that our freshmen are not
yet fully versed in the Davidson traditions of courtesy and gentlemanly conduct. But, the disturbance wasn't created by the freshmen!
It was the sophomores, the juniors, and to some extent the seniors who persisted in coughing, shuffling their feet, and
in other ways annoying the speaker. This practice has within the past few years become so general as to cause
alarm among the student leaders, who see in this laxity a gradual breaking-down of one of our proudest traditions. Students
who persist in the practice of interrupting speakers at our chapel exercises are either ignorant of tradition or purposefully disrespectful.
Either is lamentable! There are other times when the exuberance of the students overruns all limits and assumes an aspect
of discourtesy which is both annoying and insulting to outsiders. To “boo” a student who proposes something that does not
meet with your approval, to heckle a fellow-student whom you do not happen to like, to beat on the china
when a student or a stranger enters the dining hall with a young lady, to create a hullabaloo when some
student passes near the grandstand with his own or some other man’s sister, or to yell “fire” from the dormitory
windows every time a girl arrives on the campus, is to show an utter disregard for the prestige and reputation
of your college. The practice of shouting “fire” to young lady visitors, though innocently practiced, is particularly embarrassing and discourteous
to those at whom we shout. A number of young ladies from nearby towns refuse to enter the Davidson campus
because they do not wish to be greeted by a general “fire” alarm, which to them is both meaningless and
disconcerting. Some students contend that this is a college tradition and that it is to be excused on that basis.
Is such a tradition of such great value that we would sacrifice our finer tradition of courtesy that it might
endure? “Davidson men are gentlemen!” That has been the proud boast of our college since its founding. Surely we are
not to sacrifice it now for the sake of a lot of babyish and unprofitable teasing!

THE OVERFLOWING CHANNEL

English Channel swimming isn’t what it used to be. A few years ago the world hailed a channel swimmer as
a model of manly brawn and endurance, today he is more effeminate than the cigarette smoker. There are so many
women swimming the channel nowadays that some of the civic leaders of Cape Griz Nez, France, are working on plans
to establish a floating woman’s club which will accompany the members on their afternoon swims across the channel. Hereafter, we
won't speak of the women’s “bridge tea gossip,” instead it'll be “Channel Chatter.” We understand that one young lady candidate
for public office in the east has abandoned her political activities and gone in for channel swimming. “One must keep
in style,” she told newspapermen when asked why she dropped out of the political race. Gertrude Ederle seems to be
the new “first lady of the land.” England and France are in danger of a big quarrel as to which
of the two nations shall exercise swimming rights over the channel. Both nations desire to be allowed to sell tickets
to the swimmers, France declaring that this is the great opportunity for her to raise funds with which to pay
her war debts—and England contending that she must have this concession in order to maintain her maritime prestige. Prunella Pipp,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Amos Q. Pipp, has written a very interesting letter on channel swimming, which H. J.
Phillips, renowned humorist, has reprinted in a number of the leading newspapers of the land. Miss Pipp is a channel
swimmer of some note, declares Mr. Phillips, having inherited the vice from her mother, who, though a strong woman in
most respects, could never resist a channel. Whenever Mrs. Pipp saw a channel, she was as good as gone. She
was forever running away from home to swim them, and even today when Amos has her motoring, and they are
near the coast he has to chain her to the car. “I am over here waiting for a chance to
swim the channel,” writes Prunella Pipp from Cape Griz-Nez, “but it is almost a hopeless task. The Channel is so
full of swimmers there is barely room for one more. The congestion is frightful.” “Both England and France have assigned
channel police to direct swimming traffic. Large-footed policemen are better since their feet act as rafts and enable them to
remain afloat in the turbulent waters. They do the best they can but the swimmers pay no attention to traffic
signals. A system of red and green lights has been installed but even this has failed to keep traffic regulated
safely. Just the other day I was swimming up the channel toward Norway and Sweden with twenty or thirty of
my girl friends and when we got to a green light we went ahead but were struck by fourteen swimmers
who swam across traffic without paying any attention to the traffic signals.” On a 100-yard practice swim recently, Prunella ran
into Gertrude Ederle, Ishak Helmey, Mercedes Gleitze, the London typist; Mme. Jane Lion, of France; Omar Perrault, the Canadian swimmer;
Olaf Farstad, the Norwegian; and Lieut.-Col. Bernard C. Freyberg, the Englishman. All were badly bruised in the collision. Ishak Helmey
was the least injured, his escape being credited to a novel set of bumpers and shock absorbers which he has
recently constructed. These bumpers are said to fit just around the bathing trunks in such a way as to afford
protection from swimmers coming from all directions. A special lighting system which will enable the swimmers to place small parking
lights on each ear while doing night swimming is said to be in the process of development, and will be
a Godsend to the thousands of swimmers who are unable to get off from their work for a swim until
after dark. The channel waters are said to be black with swimmers and the English government is attempting to regulate
the crowds by making the swimmers apply for a swim at least two years in advance. —W. H. B.
