Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. May 13, 1926

Program Announced for Annual Soph Day Which Will be Held Saturday

Freshmen Required to Call Time Signals

CAPS TO BE BURNED

Many Feature Events and Stunts Have Been Planned by Sophomore Committee

Soph Day, the end of Freshman tribulations, will take place Saturday. A committee of six Sophomores has been working diligently
on the program and have finally rounded a suitable one into shape. A regular schedule of events to last throughout
the entire day has been planned. Special regulations in regard to dress and proper conduct will be enforced and a
number of other special features have been added such as the calling of time every minute during the morning from
each dormitory. A list of the schedule of time-callers will be posted on the bulletin board of each dormitory some
time Friday and each Freshman must take his turn. Wood for the bonfire will be gathered at 3:00 o'clock in
the afternoon and this will be followed by stunts by each dormitory or contests between two dormitories. The cap-burning proper
will come just after the show Saturday night. Freshmen will be required to report to the gymnasium at that time
and march to the Freshman athletic field for the ceremonies. Other features have been planned beside the cap burning which
cannot be announced at the present time. All Freshmen are required to abide by the rules listed below and others
which the committee may see fit to install. All of the program has been submitted to the Court of Control
and given their sanction. Any Freshman who feels that he is unable to (Continued on page 6)

Commencement Program Contains New Features

Program to Start Officially on Sunday, May 30th With Baccalaureate Sermon

Commencement this year will begin Sunday, May 30th, and continue through Wednesday, June 2nd. The commencement invitations have come and
have been issued. In addition to the regular commencement exercises, it is understood that several classes are planning reunions. Among
these is the class of 1906, of which Prof. E. J. Erwin, of the Davidson faculty, is president and Mr.
F. L. Jackson a member. Commencement proper will begin Sunday, May 30th, with the baccalaureate sermon, which is to be
delivered by E. A. Penick, Bishop Coadjutant of North Carolina. On Sunday evening at 8:00 o'clock the annual address before
the Y.M.C.A. will be delivered by Prof. K. J. Foreman. On Monday, May 31st, at 5:00 o'clock, the Senior class
exercises will be held and at 8:00 o'clock the Dramatic club presentation will be staged. Tuesday, June 1st, will be
a day of much activity. Among the activities of this day are: Meeting of Board of Trustees, annual Literary Address
by Hon. A. M. Scales, of Greensboro; annual Alumni luncheon, meeting of Alumni Association, Faculty reception and the Literary society
exercises. At 8:00 o'clock of this day the Senior oratorical contest will be held and at 10:30 the Senior class
feature will be presented. The last day of commencement is June 2nd. At 10:30 a.m. the college medals will

Students Vote to Adopt Amendment On Second Ballot

At a meeting of the student body after chapel Monday morning, the following amendment was added to the student government
constitution: “No student shall be guilty of passing a bad check.” This amendment was not included in the honor section
of the constitution, but will become Section 3 of Article 5. This change in the constitution was first proposed by
Don Stewart two weeks ago, but in accordance with the rules governing amendments it was not voted upon until 10
days after, Friday, April 30th. At this time it was again brought before the students by Don Stewart, and, after
discussion, was duly voted upon. It was favored by a vote of 254 to 97 against. It was announced as
passed Saturday morning, but R. W. Graves immediately objected on the grounds that those favoring it were not a two-thirds
majority of those present at the time of voting. To establish this number Don Wharton arose and read a statement
from Dean Sentelle that, to the best of his knowledge, 407 men were present at chapel Friday. As time was
pressing, the final decision of its validity was postponed. On Monday, Jim Pinkney, the president of the student body, announced
that the claims of the minority were sustained. W. H. Branch, Jr., took the floor and proposed a motion to
reconsider the amendment, on the grounds that he had voted against it and wished to change his vote. This motion
was passed. A protest by Wood Brown, that another period of 10 days must elapse before voting on it again,
was overruled. The amendment was strongly supported in a speech by Jim Hendrix, and the second ballot was then cast.
It was passed by a vote of 302 to 66 opposed. The amendment as adopted gives the Student Council authority
to take up the case of a bad check, but since it is not included in the honor section, no
one is honor bound to report cold checks. Although comparatively few of the Davidson students pass bad checks voluntarily, intending
to take them up when money comes from home, these few cast a shadow upon those innocent of this practice
and upon the good reputation of the college, and it was thought only best and fittest that this matter should
be regulated by the Student Council.

Advocates of prohibition, variously en-visioned as long-faced usurpers of liberty or divinely-ordained step-mothers of humanity, won an overwhelming victory in
the recent prohibition ballot cast by Davidson students. More than four times as many votes were cast in favor of
the Eighteenth Amendment as were cast in opposition to it. Only three votes were expressed as being in favor of
the amendment with modifications, although it is generally conceded that a number of those in opposition to prohibition would be
favorable to the amendment provided light wines and beers were allowed. The vote numbers are more than representative of the
student body insofar as only a little more than half of the students submitted ballots. However, the overwhelming number of
the votes cast in favor of the retention of prohibition makes it seem safe to predict that this is the
prevalent opinion among the majority of local students. It is interesting to note just how the students from various states
voted. One-third of the boys from the state of North Carolina expressed themselves as being inalterably opposed to prohibition, this
being the largest

Store Profit Fund for Swimming Pool

At a meeting of the board of directors of the Students’ Store, held last week, J. B. Kuykendall and Fletcher
Adams were appointed managers for next year. The new board of directors which has also been recently appointed includes Dr.
J. M. Douglass, Mr. F. Jackson, J. F. Pinkney, R. F. H. Mellwine. The profits of the store are at
the present time on deposit at the Bank of Davidson. It was decided by the board to continue depositing this
money until principal and interest will amount to a sum great enough to be used for some project which will
benefit the student body. One of the things thought of in this connection was a swimming pool. This matter was
presented to the student body last Friday morning by Tom Baker and was overwhelmingly accepted by that organization upon a
show of hands. The profits of the entire store (Continued on page 2)

The Chameleon, the Davidson College Magazine, Reviewed

The latest issue of the Davidson College Magazine, edited by the Blue Pencil chapter of the Sigma Upsilon fraternity, and
appropriately named The Chameleon, made its appearance last week and was warmly welcomed by the many students, who had begun
to despair of receiving any further chronicle of literary genius this term. Since the acceptance by the student body some
months ago of a resignation submitted by the staff of the magazine, due to what they termed too stringent faculty
control, the college has been without any medium through which the promising young essayists, poets, and authors in our midst
might give expression to their aesthetic and exotic inclinations. But The Chameleon came as a God-send, and the literary genius
of the college has been saved from a gruesome death of suffocation. The Chameleon has served well its purpose, provided
its purpose was to stir up latent thought and provoke a fuller appreciationOf certain American authors, ties that bind the
class of 1925 to their alma mater will be severed with the lowering of the class flag. The magazine has
set a new goal at Davidson for originality of thought, attractiveness of make-up, and fearlessness of expression. One cannot help
but admire the bold way in which some of the contributors, undoubtedly protégés of a certain H. L. Mencken, made
subtle and engaging attacks on fundamentalism and the established doctrines. But, some still contend that the Davidson College Magazine was
never intended to reflect the innovations of such magazines as The Dial, American Mercury, The Century, and a host of
other periodicals of the like. Heretofore, socialism, communism, sovietism, and other radical tenets have been subordinated to what the contributors
of The Chameleon are wont to ridicule as “Babbitism.” The subtle and obscure manner in which certain contributors to the
new magazine hid their new ideals under a ridiculing picture of a world in which free thought was violently suppressed
deserves commendation for its cleverness, but there still remains the question as to whether it all represented what is left
of Davidson literary genius. Does radicalism denote genius in this newer day, or is this idea of oppos- (Continued on
page 5)

Students Show Overwhelming Favor for the Present Volstead Amendment

Elon But Loses Closing proportion of from to the more favorable of the Carolinians tion; the strong for prohibition with
only students state the eighteenth amendment; South Carolina bit to governmental suppression traffic, and two South voted in opposition to
prohibi- Mississippi delegation went any one vote against boys from were a liquor only over one opposing vote; Oklahoma was
also in favor of a dry nation with the exception of one dissenting opinion; more than nine-tenths of Georgia’s sons
stand staunchly for prohibition; the wet Virginian vote Alabama was overwhelmingly dry according to the only one was among minority;
vote cast by her representatives in the Davidson student body; while the Florida, District of Columbia, Arkansas, and West Virginia
were all unanimously in favor of the bone-dry law. The favorable of the boys from such states as Texas, and
West Virginia, commonly considered as the hotbeds of opposition to the present prohibition enactment, furnished no little surprise to those
who had looked for a strong “wet” vote from these states. Not more than one-tenth of the (Continued on page
6) boys from Tennessee, Texas, vote Tennessee, vote

Freshman Addressed by Mrs. Lingle at Mothers’ Service

The twilight service of the Y. M. C. A. on last Sunday was dedicated to our Mothers. The chapel was
appropriately decorated with white roses and the whole service was marked by a beautiful simplicity. The service was opened with
two songs, after which the assemblage was led in prayer by C. G. Davis and E. K. Regen. After another
song, J. A. McAlpine read the scripture lesson. Those present were then favored with an exquisite solo by Mrs. W.
A. Christian, while the Y. M. C. A. introduced Mrs. T. W. Lingle as the one who would bring the
message of Motherhood to those who were absent from their Mothers on that sacred day. Mrs. Lingle began her address
by paying a tribute to the Y. M. C. A. “The ‘Y’ is the best thing on the campus,” she
said, “and I am delighted to see the increasing interest it is taking in the social activities of the school.”
After paying this high tribute to the Y. M. C. A., Mrs. Lingle challenged the organization, saying, “I am looking
to the ‘Y’ to inspire the students with a loyal devotion to the church in its present crisis of changing
pastors.”

Mrs. Lingle stated that she would not attempt to “eulogize Motherhood,” “but it is my desire,” she said, “to represent
to you boys who are present, your own Mothers who are so far away.” Continuing, she reminded the audience that
“Mother's Day” had its origin in the minds of men and not in the minds of the women. Mrs. Lingle,
in a charming manner, reminded the boys who were present that it was not so long ago when our Mothers
were flushed with the happiness of youth and capturing the hearts of the moody young jackanapes who worshiped at the
shrine of their loveliness. She stated that our Mothers love boys now just as they did then, “only now,” she
said, “their love is centered on one or two, yourself and your brother, if you have one.” “Your Mothers, when
they were searching for the man they were to marry, looked for good men with clean morals, and today they
are looking to their sons, expecting to find inculcated in them the same high ideals that marked their fathers.” In
closing, Mrs. Lingle assured those in attendance that every Mother holds a treasure for her son. And that treasure, she
spoke of theoretically, it being an ancestral culture and practically, a life of love and service. (Continued on page 3)

Baseball Team Defeats Elon in Dramatic Contest

CHAMPIONSHIP LOST Wildcats Lose to Duke at Gastonia as a Result of Many Untimely Errors

Davidson won a dramatic game from Elon here last Wednesday that will go down in the baseball history of the
local diamond as one of the greatest slugfests that has ever been played. From the first man up to the
last man out, the game was in doubt, and the fans were kept in suspense as to who would take
the lead for the next few minutes. There was no scoring in the first two innings, but in the third,
Elon pushed across three counters, which feat was duplicated by Davidson a few minutes later in their half of the
third. Elon went out ahead in the fourth and remained there until the last of the sixth, when Davidson scored
two runs to take the lead, which she held until the ninth. Then Elon scored two runs to tie the
score. It was in the next inning that Vance came to the bat. After one man was out in the
tenth, Vance strode to the plate and took a mighty swing, the bat slipping out of his hands and going
to third base. The next was a ball, but the next was to the liking of the Davidson giant, and
he poled out the longest homer that has ever been seen on the local park. The ball cleared the right
fielder’s head about six feet on a line and did not stop rolling until it had reached the fence in
the far corner of the field. This was the most opportune hit secured during the whole season on Richardson field,
and it is fitting that it should come from the bat of Vance, who was at the bat for the
last time on Richardson field in (Continued on page 7)

Dramatic Club Presents Four Plays at N.C.C.W.

Glee Club Quartet Accompanies Actors on Trip to Greensboro Teachers’ College

The Davidson Dramatic Club presented four one-act plays in the N. C. C. W. auditorium in Greensboro last Friday night,
on the last trip of this organization for the season. A good-sized audience of townspeople and college girls attended the
performance, which was sponsored by the women of the Episcopal Church of that city. The Wildcat Quartet, composed of Wilson,
Foster, and Calhoun, sang a number of popular songs between the plays and they were given encore after encore. The
audience showed its appreciation of both plays and music by hearty applause all during the program. The plays presented were
three that have been taken to other places by the club and one play that was presented here during Stunt
Night last fall. The four plays were: A Little Bleeding, Tailor-Made, Ellen, and The Real Mr. Q.; all of them
were written by the members of the club except the last mentioned. The cast of the plays and members of
the quartet, with Professor and Mrs. Erwin as chaperones, left here Friday afternoon and reached Greensboro several hours before the
performance. The scenery was sent up on a truck, the members traveling by means of cars hired for the trip.
All those who made the trip were entertained in the homes of the Greensboro people, who displayed lavish hospitality in
caring for the wants of the Davidsonians. The performance was the best that has been given this year, due to
the fact that (Continued on page 8)
