THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1926

WILDCATS

Have those old shoes rebuilt. Service is our watchword.
E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP
Representatives STEVE WALL and J. A. LAW

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PILOT MOUNTAIN: NORTH CAROLINA

For the College Man

The Pilot Life Insurance Company provides a contract at one-half regular premium rates during the first five years. This liberal
feature makes it convenient for the college man to get his life insurance at his present age and carry it
for the least possible cost during college days. See that you get your protection from the Pilot.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
GREENSBORO, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, President

Spring Tennis Matches Attract the Attention of All Wildcat Netmen

Many New Aspirants Join Letter Men in Annual Tennis Try-outs

During the past week the annual spring tennis tournament has been in progress and the remaining matches this week will
decide who will compose our team this spring. Five of the six tennis letter men having graduated last year, a
number of aspirants have come out to contest for these vacant places, and some spirited matches are being played. The
candidates for the team were divided on the basis of past performance and the tournament is being run off in
two sections, one section composed of last year’s reserves and the other of any who want to contend. Preliminary tryouts
place six of those of past experience on the varsity round robin. Those who were eliminated from the varsity robin
were placed on the reserves round robin. The winners of the open elimination tournament will also enter the reserves robin
and then the reserves will be limited to six men by elimination matches. After these preliminary tournaments are played off,
a rating card will be drawn up, in which by progressive challenging the respective merits of the players in squads
will be determined, and the final membership of the team will be decided. A varsity round robin will be played
by the six men composing the varsity squad to determine the standing of the different members of the team. At
the present writing those in the varsity robin are: I. M. McCutchen, captain; Dick Carr, Wood Brown, W. A. Alexander,
J. A. McAlpine, and either H. M. Austin or R. A. Miller. Those placed in the reserve robin are: J.
G. Wharton, W. A. Christian, and D. H. Stuart. Those remaining in the open elimination tournament are: J. S. Foster,
F. D. Daniel, J. A. Vaughn, F. E. Hudgins, and S. W. Moore.

Goodykoontz stepped off the four-forty in ten flat in practice last week. If he keeps this up the rest of
the season, he will be good for a number of points in several meets. His usual quota is fifteen points,
which he managed to garner in nearly every meet last year. With Brand and Smith also showing up well in
the dashes, Davidson should get quite a few points in the dashes this year.

“What wuz the last card I dealt you, Droopy?”
“It was a spade.”
“I knew it; I saw you spit on your hands before you picked it up.”

Visit Our New Fountain When in Charlotte
Tryon Drug Co.
Agents... Hollingsworth Nunnally Whitman Candies

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE — THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

SPORTOGRAPHS By Boyce Martin

The second annual invitation track meet has been finished and once more Charlotte High has walked away with the cup.
The Queen City runners succeeded in besting the Davidson yearlings this time, which they were unable to do last year.
Charlotte High always has a good track team, to come up on a par with her representatives in other sports.
The next of the high schools in the competition for the cup was Greensboro. They also had a good team,
but nothing to cope with those of Charlotte and the Wildkittens. Their middle-distance men showed up better than any of
the others on the team.

Wildcat Sluggers Meet Tarheel Nine in Annual Encounter Next Monday

Carolina-Davidson Game to be Part of Junior Speaking Program

As one of the features of the Junior Speaking program Davidson will play the University of North Carolina in baseball
at Salisbury Monday afternoon at 3:00 o'clock. This game has been an annual affair for the last several years, until
last spring being staged at Gastonia, when the contest was switched to the other North Carolina city. The Tarheels ran
off with the game last Easter; their onslaught of hits combined with a large number of errors made by the
Wildcats made it impossible for the David- This invitation meet, now an annual event, should draw a number of athletes.and
other good men to Davidson in the coming years. When the high schools and their students realize that Davidson is
actively interested in them, they will become more interested in Davidson and send more of their good men here.

And speaking of track meets, that game with Oak Ridge last Friday caused many to think that the invitation meet
had been slipped up a day and that the Cadets had sent a good nine-man team to represent them. The
score sounded more like a basketball score than baseball. But the satisfying part is that Davidson won and avenged one
of the two defeats that Oak Ridge handed us last year. Coach Monk is pessimistic over the outcome of the
rest of the season, but with the wealth of material out for positions on the team, there is a strong
possibility of a creditable team before the season is ended.

The golf team also made quite an auspicious beginning when they defeated Concord in the first matches of the season.
But they also should improve as the season rolls on. Several matches have been arranged with other country clubs and
the members of this team will have plenty of chances to prove their worth.

The election of Carroll to the position of basketball manager for next year was a fitting climax to three years
of hard work on the part of this man. For his first three years, he was an assistant football manager,
but after the last season, he was shifted to basketball and proved his ability to manage in that sport also,
and was awarded the position of manager for his work. George Batte should make a good fresh manager next year.
With this pair working together, we should have quite a few good games on the court next year.

This week will be rather full of athletic contests. The game with Dartmouth over, the baseball team is ready to
meet Lenoir here tomorrow afternoon, while the tennis team will play its first spring matches here Saturday morning. The fresh
nine will open its season Saturday afternoon. And then Monday the varsity will have its big game with Carolina in
Salisbury.

The fresh tennis team is getting underway, with Manager Mac Austin, of the varsity, planning an elimination tournament and several
meets for them. With John T. Roddey playing number one, which he is sure to do, and also playing on
the first team in the doubles, the freshmen ought to make a very good showing in their coming matches. The
class baseball series will start soon and it is time for the various groups to begin thinking of the men
eligible to play and getting their team organized. This series will give a number of men a chance to play
who have not yet been quite able to make the varsity. Last year much interest was manifested over the games
and some real class was shown in some of them.

The players overcame an early earned lead. Preceded by the Lenoir-Rhyne game this Friday, the locals will be in top
form, and with one victory balancing the defeat suffered at the hands of the Quantico Marines in the first contest
of the season, the game should be hotly contested. In the Oak Ridge game last week, the Wildcats showed their
hitting ability, when four home runs were garnered, Captain Alford making two, Woodham and Laird coming in for theirs at
this time. In the Marine game, Alford and Laird hit for four-ply swats. Probably the same men as used last
week will start the game for Davidson, with the pitchers and one infielder’s position uncertain. Woodham, Kugler, Kimbrough, Dulin, and
Glenn, in the inner gardens, and Alford, Johnson, Davis, in the outfield, will all see duty. Vace will, in all
probability, be at the receiving end of the batteries, with Laird, Oden, Hampton, or Hue, at the other.

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant 17 S. Tryon St. The Best Places to Eat CHARLOTTE, N.C.

For Shoes, Let us outfit you SEE M. H. GOODRUM CO. DAVIDSON, N.C. Patents, Browns, Blonds, Satins. Children’s, Men’s, and
Women’s Shoes HOSIERY TO MATCH A full line for Easter Sunday

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach, and Goldsmith Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED “FRED’S” RECREATION HALL BILLIARDS 205 West Trade Street (upstairs) Meet your friends here and make this your club
when in Charlotte MORALLY CONDUCTED

SMART STYLED CLOTHES FOR COLLEGE MEN SOLD EXCLUSIVELY BY CHARLOTTE - MELLON’S - N.C.

W. E. PRICE W. E. PRICE INSURANCE AGENCY “PROTECTION PLUS SERVICE” 30 W. 5th Street CHARLOTTE, N.C. R. L. PRICE
