4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1926

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH........-.-..--- Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE..................-..--- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. W. WALLACE.................. Managing Editor
L. M. McKINNON................. Assistant Managing Editor
P. W. HAGER..................... Assistant Managing Editor
W. R. BERRYHILL................. Athletic Editor
R. B. HENRY..................... Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE..................... Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH............. Associate Editor
GARNE McMILLAN................. Humorous Editor
J. BOWEN....................... Alumni Editor
F. K. BELL..................... Exchange Editor

Business Staff
H. D. BURR..................... Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH.................... Assistant Business Manager
V. S. BROYLES.................. Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER................ Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPOON.............. Subscription Manager
E. L. UGL...................... Assistant
JULIAN LAKE.................... Service Department
M. P. CRAWFORD................. Assistant

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
T. T. JONES
V. S. BROYLES, V.-Pres.
W. L. LINGLE, Treas.
B. M. STINSON
R. H. McILWAINE
J. P. McKNIGHT
H. L. SHELBY
D. M. SPARROW
W. T. COVINGTON
W. T. DAVIS
W. S. GORDON
JOHN GWIN
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH
J. G. WHARTON
B. WILSON
C. WITHERS
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Ivory soap is in its native habitat when it shampoos some heads.

Attend the Dramatic Club’s performance tomorrow night and see what they’ve been practicing for these past few weeks.

The recent snow doubtless saved many a good sophomore from leaving Davidson. Several threatened to leave on account of the
closed season on Freshmen, but all bets were called off Saturday.

College girls ought to make good firemen for they have had lots of experience rolling hose.

Just because a girl isn’t a bride-to-be is no sign that she is not a tried-to-be.

Davidson’s little victory over Duke and State were not bad for starters. With a few more games to limber up
the Christmas Charleston horses, Monk’s loop artists should be ready to start their seasonal shining.

Those who are contemplating making the varsity in the spring sports will do wisely in getting the old machine in
shape now. A man cannot force himself to spurt all at once unless his body is prepared in advance.

The boys all came back from the holidays as well behaved as though they had never attempted the Charleston. Even
with the artists and models in the neighboring village, and other diversions, studies have been remarkably attended to.

Clemson sponsors an ugly man and a handsome man contest. For a real, live promoter, the field here in Davidson
is ripe. Enough material for both contests could be secured without trouble, especially for the first.

This paper would be incomplete without a brief mention of the Seniors’ striking sartorial selections that have bedecked the upright
forms of all members of that upper order here of late. Notwithstanding the pointed and irreverent jibes poked at them,
they would do credit to any darktown strutter’s jazz band. The yellow trimming would make a coon’s eyes pop out
with envy. Freckles Christenbury has refused numerous offers to sell his.

AN INVENTORY

This is the beginning of a new year and therefore, the time for an inventory. It is time now to
take stock; of all the accomplishments of the past and of the resolutions stored up for the future.

Every business house that is built up on a sound basis of honesty, integrity and keen judgment stops long enough
once a year to record the results of the year’s accomplishment and to take an inventory of what the firm
has in store for another year’s run. Without this system, there would be confusion and discord as well as loss.
Unless they know whether they are gaining or losing, business men are not content to run their business, and their
patrons suffer the loss if the business is not on a sound basis. If a business is not paying and
profitable, it is far better for all concerned that it should be dissolved.

So it is with you as a college man. You have gone through part of your college career; some of
you are almost ready to step out into the broad world with a diploma in hand, to seek your fortune
as others have done before. With the beginning of this new year, it is high time, that each of you
as a thinking individual, take an inventory of your assets and your liabilities. Weigh them in the balance of an
unimpassioned mind and find out whether you are losing or gaining. Someone has said that there is no middle ground.
You cannot stand still. You are either advancing or retrogressing. You are either walking towards success or slipping back where
failure in all its stark dismalness awaits you.

There are several questions that you might ask yourself. And it is only you, yourself, that can tell whether they
are answered rightly. It will hurt no one, not even he who finds the pathway easy, to examine himself before
he goes further. Have you lived up to the ideals that you set for yourself before you entered college? Has
your college career been what your father and mother wished it to be? Have you justified the love and faith
that they have bestowed upon you? Have you made the most of your studies for which you are paying dearly
with the most precious years of your life? Are you getting anything out of your college life more than a
few cold figures and facts? How about your friendships? Are they the ones that will prove lasting as the sands
of time? Have you picked the right companions? Do you have any kind of a schedule of your waking and
working hours? Do you regard your body as a sacred thing, not abusing it, and caring for it as a
precious gift of a divine power? Do you really think that the time that you have spent in Davidson College
has been of enough value to you that you would choose it again had you the choice?

Every man can answer this for himself. Only a fool will blind himself to problems that confront him and which
he knows must be answered sooner or later. It will be far better to take stock of yourself now, and
do something to rectify or improve the existing condition while it is plastic enough to alter without a scar.

WHAT PRICE PROFANITY?

The art of profanity is no new one by any means. Since the first guttural speech of the savage man
roaming in his native forest, there has been a tendency to degrade language by using words and figures of speech
that are irreverent, unnatural, and obscene. We of today know this scurrilous type of speech as profanity, swearing, or simply
“cussing.”

If credence be given to varied statistics that decry the alarming conditions among our current young people, it is time
for alarm. Those who know say that profanity is gaining ground each year; that its recognition on the legitimate stage
and in moving pictures has fostered its popularity. Its use among men is pretty well widespread and it is gaining
ground among the women. One may hear a flapper of the present day toss off a neat phrase that would
have made her mid-Victorian grandmother swoon and those around her reach for the smelling salts.

Among every stratum of life you hear profane phrases. It is not fixed among the dives and in the underworld.
Although it has not lost the common touch it still walks with kings andthe mighty. Few seem to be immune
to it. Many children first hear profanity issuing from the lips of their parents. Their childish minds refuse to believe
that anything their parents do is harmful to themselves. And through life, the habit continues. To come down to the
point of the matter, we believe that profanity is not so much a sin as it is an offense against
good manners and good breeding. Most men curse and swear because they hear others do so, and it seems to
them a natural vent for the expression of their exuberant feelings. They fail to realize that the Bible holds it
a cardinal sin to take in vain the name of God. It is as natural to some as breathing. Can
we rightly blame the waif, who, brought up in the slums, punctuates every phrase with choice morsels of obscenity and
profanity, utterly unconscious of his act? Who is to blame when a child grows up to manhood or womanhood with
a curse or evil remark on every breath?

College students uphold the traditions of their elders in this matter. Perhaps they think that it is manly; perhaps they
have acquired the habit unconsciously—at any rate, there are few who do not use profanity in abundance every day. A
few friends with whom we are thrown in close contact use such language for the expression of their most elevated
and sublime thoughts and ideas. Surely such a condition is deplorable. Perhaps a few “dams” and varied mentions of the
infernal regions are inoffensive to many, but to us, they are grating, even when there is the utmost provocation. Cursing
and swearing accomplish little if anything. Worse than slang, such language gathers the scums of the gutters and filth of
the streets and blends it with mention of the most holy and sacred things of which we know. From a
purely critical standpoint, it debases our language, robbing it of the virile strength and calm beauty. It is offensive and
sickening. It shows a weakened mind because the user resorts to nasty phrases instead of availing himself of the beauties
of the English language. We, as future leaders, workers, and ministers of the world, can do much to stamp down
an evil that joins hand in hand with lawlessness and crime. It is a sin and an offense against good
morals. Let us do our bit to discourage its use.

A terse and snappy review of the past year’s chief events including the Scandinavian. Edited by the snappy stories editor
of The Davidsonian.

January
1—New Year heralded with wild clamor. Several million new resolutions made.
3—Davidson starts mid-winter frolic. Boys happy, mad, and indifferent.
17—Christenbury discovers library and wants to put his copy of La Vie Parisienne in the reading room.
19—Cargo of rum sunk outside three-mile limit. Stomachs and pocketbooks sink throughout several states.

February
4—"So’s your old man” joke makes its bow. Scores hit on Broadway.
14—Roland Parker sends comic valentine to professor.
22—Senate celebrates Washington’s birthday by wrangling over European war debt.
28—Man arrested on streets of Mt. Mourne when cop smelled cider on his breath. The convicted claimed that his collar
was tight and it squeezed his Adam’s apple.

March
2—Four thousand and eightieth Listerine joke published.
17—Abie’s Irish Rose.
20—Nurmi jaunts around the boards like a ku kluxed coon. Eats heavy beefsteak supper before running.
29—Student appears on Davidson campus wearing garters. He and they are quickly taken down.
31—Oil stock salesman blunders on reservation in Oklahoma. He is not punctured but has Injun trouble.

April
9—The boys started calling Sloan La Valliere today. He’s always hanging around a girl’s neck.
11—Davidson wins track meet.
15—Buster Keaton smiled today when poked in ribs. Salary was reduced a thousand per week.

May
4—Ben Wilson bummed to Charlotte in a hearse. The firm wanted to undertake him and he had trouble proving he
was alive.
6—Davidson loses 39th straight ball game.
22—Exams begin. C. E. Houston fainted.

June
1—The Johnnies go marching home. Yuk Hall wins parade.
11—June husband forgets how to drive with one hand.
18—Standard Oil goes up three cents a gallon. John D. gives away whole pocketful of new dimes.

July
4—Man arrested for making speech on free love.
7—George Shaddock sees Folies Bergere in Paris and has his glasses refitted.
9—Jack Dempsey gets married and cancels all fighting contracts.

August
3—L. L. Deck rescues strange maiden from drowning at beach and nobly refuses the nickel she offers him.
19—Heat wave breaks all records and melts Victrola records.
31—Big butter and egg men vacation in New York.

September
3—Gertrude Ederle finds that English Channel is ten miles too wide.
10—College opens with a couple of bangs and spit curls. Four co-eds among those present. Long may their permanents wave.
13—Ohio farmer thought the Shenandoah was a hawk and gunned for it, thereby bringing it down. Souvenir hunters get busy.
25—Kid Lyerly tries new hair tonic.
29—World Series over and the tired radios rejoice.

October
5—British corner world’s supply of rubber and toy balloons and tires go up.
14—Wildcats stringing scalps to belt and add another victory.
19—Claytor cuts off his basketball mustache.
27—Two deaf mutes interview President Coolidge. He cautions them not to quote him.
28—Harllee Bordeaux buys rubber watermelon.
31—Paper stays where it belongs at Davidson.

November
1—Sloppy Lingle appears in his Karo Kisses jacket.
14—Davidson almost beat Carolina. Harold Burke at the N. C. C. P. A. makes a racehorse of Helen Maria, his
trusty Fordian mount.
15—Henry Ford declines to be interviewed on his artificial cow.
22—Dim Morning on Davidson but was soon eclipsed.
28—Girls’ college still sending for copies of Davidson College Magazine.
30—Infirmary still handing out medicine for Thanksgiving dinners.

December
1—Check Monk approached by Hearst Syndicate representative.
5—Davidson students get off Santa Claus letters.
8—Mrs. O. B. Joyful, of Scuppernong, Iowa, who was formerly a telephone operator, presents her husband with quadruplets.
17—Senate starts quarreling about World Peace.
22—Antiquated Fords, kiddie cars, skates, walking shoes, and anything rideable welcomed here.
25—Santa Claus does his yearly stunt and tired fathers heave a sigh of relief until the first.
26—John St. George, of New York, pulled a St. George—dragon stunt in which Christmas booze won.
31—Old Father Time scratches his head mournfully and Charlestons out.

Minor Chords

AMBITION
Oh that I were a star
To view from Heaven afar
All things that nightly pass upon this earth!
I'd be an errant spy
And watch with wandering eye
All deeds, of mercy, honor, shame, and mirth.
I'd search in secret places
For old and wrinkled faces
And bring to light their troubles hidden long;
I'd cast my tiny light
On travelers of the night,
And shield the helpless one from violent wrong.
At twilight e’er I'd stir
In groves of pine and fir
Where waits for dawn the peaceful sleeping lark;
To hear the lover's tale
And thru the misty veil
To see the sweetest romance of the dark.
And stealing thru the vines
Of thickest eglantine
Whence cometh words of love so soft and low,
I'd illumine lovers’ faces
And see in their embraces
The ardent flame that sets their hearts aglow.
Thru windows high I'd flit,
Upon the walls to sit
And be a silent watchman o’er the fair;
I'd bind their snow-white hands
With silvery shadowy bands
Of starlight sifting thru their fluffy hair.
Then when the light of morn
Announced a new day born
Away from earth I’d quickly take my flight,
To hide my bashful face
In the mighty realm of space
And wait for death of day and dawn of night.

H. L. Shelby.

There is something new under the moon. The University of Utah has instituted a course in skiing, for which college
credit is given.
