4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1926

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.--------------------Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES----------------------Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. LINGLE----------------------------Managing Editor
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH------------------Assistant Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN--------------------------Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS---------------------------Athletic Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN--------------------Associate Editor
KENNETH BECK--------------------------Associate Editor
BUFORD WEBB---------------------------Associate Editor
H. L. SHELTON---------------------------Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN--------------------------Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
W. L. LINGLE----------------------------Assistant Business Manager
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH------------------Assistant Business Manager
BOYCE MARTIN--------------------------Assistant Business Manager
F. C. WITHERS---------------------------Subscription Manager
GARNETT McMILLAN--------------------Circulation Manager
KENNETH BECK--------------------------Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
W. S. GORDON
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas.
JOHN GWIN
H. ALLISON
T. T. JONES
R. H. McILWAINE
H. M. AUSTIN
J. P. McKNIGHT
C. L. BRAGAW
A. M. SPARROW
W. T. COVINGTON
J. G. WHARTON
W. T. DAVIS
B. WILSON

EDITORIAL

A NEW STAFF AND ITS HOPES

The whirligig of time, so incessant in its spinning, has made another complete revolution, and with its turning has marked
the time when a new staff must assume control of The Davidsonian. The old staff, whose untiring efforts and unrelenting
loyalty have carried the paper through one of its most successful years, now steps out to give place to a
newer group of editors, whose chief hope is to maintain the prestige that has already been won for The Davidsonian.

It is not without a deep feeling of regret and sorrow that the new editors witness the retirement of the
men, under whose supervision they have worked during the past three years. It seems almost as if the entire power
of the paper is being lost, but, no doubt, the retiring staff faced just such a fearful situation when it
first took control last spring. It is the desire, and the avowed intention of the new staff to continue, in
so far as possible, the fine record of service and usefulness that has characterized The Davidsonian of past years. With
a fine conception of the accomplishments of the paper during its twelve years of usefulness, the present editors take up
their new duties, with a firm resolve to make every effort to preserve for the paper its reputation of excellence.

No pains will be spared by the new editors in their attempt to again win for the publication the title
of “North Carolina’s Leading Collegiate Newspaper.” This honor, which has been won for two consecutive years by The Davidsonian, is
a goal toward which the new staff shall always strive. In the make-up of the publication, there will be no
drastic changes under the new regime. Undoubtedly new forms of type and new methods of arrangement will be inaugurated as
often as the staff finds it practicable, but as to the general plan of arrangement, there seems to be little
possibility of improvement. It is hoped that the form and contents of the news stories that are to appear each
week will be greatly improved. Due to no fault of the retiring staff, there seems to have been a regrettable
indifference on the part of some reporters this year in the preparation of articles for publication. It has been necessary
each week for the editors themselves to rewrite or recopy articles, which were prepared by men who had previously shown
a full capability of writing correctly. This negligence and disregard for propriety, it is hoped, will have disappeared by next
fall, but, if it hasn’t, the new staff will make every effort to remedy the trouble.

As often as possible next year the paper will carry cuts, illustrating stories of current happenings. The use of cuts
will depend largely, of course, on the financial condition of the publication; but an attempt will be made to use
as many illustrations as possible each week. The alumni page, which has been noticeably neglected in the past few years,
will be given no little attention, and it is hoped that through this medium, alumni interest in the publication will
be greatly increased. The editorial page, as has been customary in the past, will be devoted to the expression of
student opinion, not only on matters of local interest but also matters of state and nation-wide importance. The “Open Forum”
column will be reserved for the written opinions of students, and all articles to which the writer’s signature is attached
will be published, regardless of opinion, unless, perchance, the material contained within the statement is considered by the faculty supervisors
as unfit for publication.

Lastly, it is the hope of the new editors that the students as a whole will come to consider the
paper as their own publication, one in which they should exercise not only a reader’s interest, but also some degree
of control. To achieve the ends that the new staff has set as its goal will necessitate cooperation and interest
by the entire student-body, and all articles, opinions, and criticisms from any of the students will be welcomed.

LUTHER BURBANK

Some weeks ago the religious world was startled by an announcement from California that Luther Burbank, world-famous scientist and horticulturist,
had denounced his belief in God from one of San Francisco’s leading pulpits. It seems incredible that a man who
had lived so close to nature, and whose life work had been so centered about the natural manifestations of an
existing God could turn his back so completely on the teachings and beliefs of his fathers. Believers and fundamentalists throughout
the world were shocked and bewildered at this sudden twist of things.

Weeks passed, and the public press continued to publish divergent views on Burbank’s latest stand—his action being hailed variously as
“heresy,” “disbelief,” and the “mysterious workings of an aged mind.” The marvelous reputation that he had built for himself seemed
about to topple from the blow of his newly avowed beliefs. Then came a crisis, Burbank died! The world stopped
again to ponder over the statements he had made in the closing days of his life, and a new light
began to shine through the darkness of suspicion. Radical believers hastened to point to his death as the “vengeance of
an outraged Heaven,” but the vengeful idea could not stand. Burbank had passed the prime of life, he was an
old man, and, as eminent ministers throughout the nation declared, “his time had come.” To declare that Burbank’s death had
come as a result of the vengeance of God was thoroughly in accordance with the infidel method of attacking Christianity,
but, as the Charlotte Observer has pointed out, “advancing such a theory, the infidels would nullify one standard contention—that there
is no God.”

Whatever Burbank believed or disbelieved it is now shown that he never really denied the existence of God, and even
to his last hours his faith in the handiworks of God was firm and unchangeable. His last written statement was
on the nature of a man, a statement in which he reaffirmed his belief in the spiritual nature of mankind,
recognizing it as the “corona, the flower of life, the fruit of which is altruism, the desire to help ourselves
and others to higher and better thoughts and actions—in other words to a more perfect state of harmony and environment.”

In his own statement from the pulpit of the First Congregational Church of San Francisco, in response to a demand
that he account for his newly adopted position as an “infidel,” Burbank explained that he had nominated himself as an
“infidel” merely as a means of making people think. He still believed in a God, and he still believed in
men and in Christ, both as a man and in his works. He claimed he was an “infidel” today just
as “Christ was an infidel in His day,” nothing more, and that his whole aim was to make people read
the Bible without the ill-fitting colored spectacles of theology—listening to the voice within, not to the noisybabble without.” Burbank was
not an infidel, he did not deny Christ, he still believed in a God, whose love to him was a
paragon of unselfishness, service, and devotion. And so he died—a man who had turned to nature in youth when he
had been crushed and the flower of his love had wilted and died; a man who through all his life
had found solace in the culture of earthly plants; whose work had depended entirely on the blessings of a Heavenly
Father. And so he was buried with simple rites, this man, whom all the world knew for his inspired devotion
to the friendly trees and flowers among which he worked with untiring zeal. “If Burbank went wrong on religion,” says
the Charlotte Observer, “he was led wrong by the most beautiful of all God’s creations, the flowers.” It is hard
for us to see him as an “infidel,” this agent of God, who today sleeps the sleep of death in
his garden wonderland, beneath the shade of the trees, and within reach of the nodding flowers that he produced in
life.

Open Forum

A CRITICISM

And to think that Davidson should have attacked Charlotte for its poor support of the Davidson Glee Club! Some months
ago when the Davidson Glee Club, returning from its southern tour, played in Charlotte, only twenty-two persons attended the concert.
Davidson students felt justly outraged, and they were violent and vociferous in their condemnation for the treatment their glee club
had received at the hands of the people of the “Queen City.” The criticism that started at Davidson was quickly
taken up by papers throughout the state, and Charlotte was made the goat of ridicule for some weeks. But now
it’s Davidson’s time to apologize to Charlotte, and having bowed apologetically to the city which they so recently condemned, it
would be very appropriate for the Davidson students to then hang their heads in shame for their own treatment of
their own glee club. Last Monday night, the Davidson Glee Club, in an effort to raise certain needed funds, staged
in Shearer Hall what turned out to be one of the most entertaining attractions that has come to Davidson in
many years. The Biddle Quintette, under the auspices of the Davidson Glee Club, was playing to a Davidson audience. Surely
the glee club officials were justified in expecting a large crowd of Davidson students to turn out and support them.
The house should have been packed—it was a fine entertainment, and well worth the small admission charge that had to
be attached. Besides that, it was appearing in Davidson under the auspices of a college organization. The time for the
performance arrived, the hour passed and when the concert ended a grand total of thirty-five persons had filed in to
help defray the expenses. Of this number some ten or twelve were negroes, who had come to hear what is
recognized as one of the leading colored quintettes in this section. At the same hour hundreds of the Davidson students
were at the local picture show, or lolling about the drug store or resting in their rooms. Such support is
not only deserving of a maximum shame on the part of Davidson students, but it is discouraging to the officials
of the glee club, who have worked so tirelessly to make a good reputation for their college organization. Davidson students
owe Charlotte an apology, owe the glee club better support, and deserve themselves to be thoroughly “spanked.” Two months ago
the laugh of scorn was on Charlotte, now the laugh’s on Davidson itself, and remember “He who laughs last, laughs
longest.”

J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH.

TO THE TENNIS COURTS

For the past few weeks there have been more students answering the call of the outdoors and going out for
some form of athletics than at any time before this year. Favorable weather conditions have allowed the students to seek
recreation on the athletic field, the gym, the golf course, and in very limited numbers, to the tennis courts. The
number of tennis players is limited due to the lack of proper facilities. There are not enough courts to supply
all the students who wish to play and the ones that are available are not kept as well as they
should be. A number of students flock to the tennis courts every afternoon, only to find that the few courts,
on which playing is possible, are already occupied, and usually remain full until darkness prohibits further playing. Sports such as
tennis, in which there is the relaxation of play, where exercise is combined with pure enjoyment of the sport, are
said by authorities to be far more beneficial to the body than some of the supervised sports, which have been
so largely commercialized in the past few years according to Dr. Charles M. Wharton of the University of Pennsylvania. Something
should be done here at Davidson to open this vista of recreation to a larger group of our students.

B. F. MARTIN.

Minor Chords

MIDWAY

Two years have passed of melancholy joy
Entwined with hopes and fears of life
Enriched by Fate's uncertain faltering hand
And heightened by the doubts of strife.

Two years rush out to meet us at the bend
Life's opportunities they bare
Whatever we may wish we choose
Bright gems magnificent and rare.

Time hastens on we know not where it goes;
Ahead, now here, and then behind;
So like the lonely comet without bounds,
Whose route has no concept in mind.

O soul of mine, which little cares for time,
Awake before it passes by
Take what it gives and use it well that just
Reward may be thine when I die.

W. L. Lingle.

this column to finish it up entirely. Perhaps we will never see any more.

LEE: SO’S YOUR OLD MAN!

Apropos of "Life’s” little movement to further the “old man” joke (7) we think it is the duty of this
column to finish it up entirely. Then perhaps we will never see any more.

Sir Walter—“Egad! Hotsy, your castle hath need of steam heat.”
The Queen—“So’s your old manor.”

Crawfish—“Why don’t you use Pebeco your teeth are dirty.”
Toad—“So’s your old mandible.”

Captain—“Your textbook is all bull.”
Prof.—“So’s your old manual.”

Mujer de Espana—“Sir, your new cape is the stuff.”
Colombo—“So’s your old mantilla.”

Dodge Bros.—“That carburetor of yours is a bum contraption.”
Henry—“So’s your old manifold.”

Lord Helpus—“Campus football is bad on good shirts.”
Stude—“So’s your old mangle.”

First Architect—“The acoustics of your new building is all warped.”
Second Architect—“So’s your old mantle.”

Lion—“Elmer, your boyish bob is tangled up.”
Unicorn—“So’s your old mane.”

The Prince of Wales puts out a hot joke at times. Not so long ago he was at a dinner
party and naturally he was called on for a speech. We reproduce that masterpiece of English humor verbatim:

A Scottish family was entertaining a new minister. They didn’t know what to give him for a nightcap, so they
gave him a glass of milk mixed with some of their best whiskey. The next morning the new minister could
not be found anywhere, but they discovered he had been to the barn lot, and they asked the herdsman what
he had said. He replied, “He said, ‘I want the first calf from the cow that gave the milk I
drank last night.’”

Speaking of the Prince of Wales, a student was heard to remark the other day that the Prince of Wales
was very fond of riding but he didn't seem attached to his horse.

Yance Bowie, pride of the forensic council, was speaking at chapel of a nearby girls’ school. He began in the
usual way, “It gives me great pleasure to see all your shining faces this morning—.” It is said that four
hundred and some odd powder puffs immediately appeared in the hands of that many girls.

SAY NOW, AIN’T it queer HOW A CONFIRMED WOMANHATER WHO has ALWAYS dodged, from GIRLS AND laughed at THE REST
OF US and SAID THAT LOVE was the BUNK CAN linger around FOR JUNIOR speaking and UNAVOIDABLY MEET a girl
AND HAVE A date merely TO ACCOMMODATE a friend, AND THEN after the HOLIDAYS HE is keeping SOME FLOWERS in
A BOOK AND HE LOOKS AT them EVERY night before STUDYING his lessons, AND TALKS about the POSSIBILITY OF a
week END EXCUSE and wants to KNOW THE railroad fare TO A CERTAIN place AND NOW HE agrees that LOVE
IS A WONDERFUL THING. SAY now ain’t it QUEER?

—KABLE.
