6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1926

DAVIDSON LEADERS GO MISSIONARY ADDRESSES “Y” ON SUNDAY EVENING

(Continued from page 1)

the University of Kentucky. The opinions as expressed were representative of the leading thought among college students today, practically all
of the members of the conference being student body presidents.

Rev. Charles F. Crane was the speaker at the “Y” vespers on last Sunday afternoon and gave an interesting and
inspiring talk on the needs of the mission fields, with special reference to the Belgian Congo in Africa where he
has given up his life to work among the natives. Mr. Crane's sincere manner and his first-hand information about the
work made a fine impression on the rather small audience. In order to get a picture of the field before
his audience, the speaker took up the inhabitants and characterized them in a way which perhaps surprised most of his
hearers. The people of this territory, according to the missionary, are of great physical strength and in addition, of a
high mentality. They are a migratory race, however, and the subsequent and frequent change in their languages and dialects are
a source of constant trouble to the missionaries in their work.

In taking up next the attractions of the field Rev. Mr. Crane said: “Of all the attractions of the work,
probably the greatest is its beauty. There is not a single mission station of ours which is not a beauty
spot.” Another source of the interest is the study of primitive conditions. The people in the station considered are much
similar to the people of the Bible in their habits and customs and are consequently apt at catching the parables
and illustrations of Jesus. Another attraction mentioned by the speaker was the humor of the natives. He declared that he
had gotten more hearty laughs in Africa than in any other place in the world. He asserted also that the
Africans were a lovable people, and cited instances of sacrifice and devotion to support his statement.

Under the head of their needs, the missionary told of the filthy conditions and squalid surroundings of their life. The
medicine men are one of the greatest evils and the medical facilities are so poor that 75 per cent of
the infants die. Their mental needs are fully as great as the physical for there is little or no literature
or educational system. The lack of an ethical code in the native religions and the barbarous practices they sanction make
the religious need the greatest of all. In speaking finally of the qualifications and the call, Mr. Crane urged those
who were considering the work not to neglect their education in the belief that it would not be needed. He
also emphasized the fact that a man who goes must be willing to undertake anything which he is called upon
to do. In summarizing a call to the foreign field he gave the three words, “The need, the ability, and
the open door!”

The meeting was led by Tom Barr, Grice Davis led the singing and Joe Garrison and Archie Williford led in
prayer. Jim Caligan rendered a special song.

Bohannon---Leggett---Woodham

FELLOWS

We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.

The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DAVIDSON LOSES

(Continued from page 2)

AB R H PO A E
Davidson
Woodham, 1b ---------- 4 0 0 9 0 0
Moncton, cf ------------- 4 0 0 2 0 0
Mange, 2b --------------- 4 0 0 2 4 0
Laird, lf ------------------ 4 0 1 0 0 0
Dilling, 3b --------------- 4 0 0 0 2 1
Kugler, ss --------------- 4 0 0 2 4 3
Glenn, rf ----------------- 2 0 0 2 0 0
Davis, rf ----------------- 1 0 0 0 0 0
Black, c ------------------ 3 0 0 2 0 0
Huie, p ------------------- 1 0 0 0 1 0
Totals ------------------- 32 0 3 24 10 5

Clemson
AB R H PO A E
Hudgens, 3b ------------- 4 2 3 0 0 0
Moore, cf ---------------- 4 1 1 0 0 0
Martin, rf ---------------- 4 1 1 0 0 0
Milling, lf ---------------- 5 0 0 0 0 0
Dunlap, 2b --------------- 4 0 1 0 1 0
Eskew, 1b ---------------- 4 0 0 11 1 0
Abbott, c ----------------- 4 0 1 7 1 1
McGill, ss ---------------- 4 1 2 2 0 0
Smith, p ------------------ 4 1 0 0 2 0
Totals ------------------- 36 9 10 27 4 1

*Ran for Smith in 6th.

Score by innings:
Davidson ---------------- 000 000 000—0
Clemson ----------------- 000 003 60x—9

Sacrifices, Moore, Martin. Stolen bases, Martin (2), Moore, and McGill. Two base hit, Vance. Three base hit, Martin. Home run,
McGill. Bases on balls, off Smith 2, Laird 1. Struck out, by Smith 11, Laird 2, Huie 2. Double play,
Laird, Kugler, and Woodham. Passed ball, Vance. Umpire, —.

After an introductory geographical study

Prof. Erwin Gives Talk in Charlotte

Prof. Edwin Erwin, of the English Department of Davidson College, recently delivered an address on “The Spirit of America in
Literature,” before the Charlotte Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution at the home of Mrs. F. M. Laxton.
Professor Erwin is a descendant of a signer of the Mecklenburg Declaration and in a pageant in Charlotte last May
played the part of a “Covenanter.” A summary of his speech follows:

“No American writer has yet produced one great poem, play, or novel, which expresses the whole American spirit, as did
the great European writers in various countries, in writing the great poems, plays, and novels, expressing the spirit of the
time and country in which they dwelt. America lacks a great epic past. We lack the long years of background
which Europe has. Longfellow in “Hiawatha” tried to write an epic of America; but the epic of the red man
is not that of the white man of America. We are too heterogeneous in race to express in one poem
the epic of the American spirit. It will probably be years before such a poem will be written. We sprang
from European culture in an advanced stage. The writings of Shakespeare, of Milton, belong to America as well as to
Europe. Irving, Hawthorne, and Poe wrote much as did European writers. We have builded on the literature of Europe. Ours
is a very large country, and life in many ways is very different; and it is difficult to write one
poem, play, or novel, expressive ofthe entire country. We have no one great city which expresses the spirit of the
whole country. In ancient days “all roads led to Rome; in England, today, London is expressive of England; in France,
Paris expresses the spirit of all France. Our great cities do not thus express, in any one city, the entire
country. The spirit of America combines idealism with materialism. “Energy” might be said to be the keyword. We have shown
marvelous accomplishments in the wonderful materialistic progress of America; on the other hand, there is the idealistic side as shown
in our various wars, when we have been fighting for idealistic, altruistic principles. Ours is an unfinished country; and has
a buoyancy, an optimism of outlook which is not found in other lands. America has a youthfulness of spirit which
is idealistic and romantic. How, then, has our literature expressed this spirit of idealism and materialism? It has been said
that we have not developed a body of literature which is truly American, that we have not produced many great
musicians, artists, etc.; also, it is said of us that we are too money-loving. The War Between the States divides
our literature into two periods, from the year 1800 until the present time. During the first half of that period
there was a group closely following the footsteps of Scott, and other European writers with scenes, however, laid in this
country. Emerson, Hawthorne, and Poe, are three great figures in that period. After that war, our country became one united
country; and Walt Whitman appeared and came very near expressing the whole American spirit. Had he possessed a little more
artistry he would have reached the great ideal of the American spirit in literature. In the second period of literature
referred to, there have come many writers who have expressed the spirit of the section in which they lived: Bret
Harte with his pictures of the West, Joel Chandler Harris, Thomas Nelson Page, George Cable, James Lane Allen, of the
South; and others who have written of one particular section of our great country. Mark Twain, who was a real
American humorist, and philosopher of life, came nearer than most of our writers in expressing a real American spirit in
his writings. Emerson, Hawthorne, and Poe, form a notable group of writers in that period, also portraying the American spirit.
With the World War has come a change in our American literature. Woodrow Wilson possessed much of that idealism which
is expressive of the American spirit. Today, however, among our writers, there is one group which tells us that all
is well; another group, that there are many plague-spots in our country. These give us a one-sided picture perhaps; but
the writing of the last ten years gives us a tonic which we need—to analyze our American literature. Literature today
has a more direct bearing on our life than ever before. There is an unusual amount of interest in poetry;
and much poetry is being written. The literary center of America may be said to have shifted from New York
to Chicago; and the best literature of the present day may be found perhaps in the middle west. Many Southern
cities and colleges have been made vibrant with the expression of the modern life of America through literature. At the
University of North Carolina much excellent literary work is being done. We are on the verge of a great period
of creative writing; and it may be that we will find that in North Carolina—perhaps right here in Charlotte—some day
not far distant, some writer will express in a great poem, play, or novel, the spirit of our great country.

Two Debates Scheduled For the Present Week
Branch and Wharton to Represent Davidson Against Sewanee Team

Don Wharton and Harllee Branch left today to meet the Sewanee debating team at Sewanee, Tenn., Friday, the 30th. The
subject for this debate is, “Resolved, That the United States should establish a Department of National Defense with sub-branches for
the Army, Navy and Air Forces.” This was also the subject for the Davidson-V. P. I. debate, and Wharton and
Branch are well prepared on it. Although this is the first time Davidson has debated Sewanee, plans have already been
laid to meet them here next year. Another Davidson team defeated P. C. at Rock Hill, Tuesday, the 27th. The
query “Resolved, That the United States should enter the World Court.” This team was composed of T. G. McCutcheon, Don
Stewart, and E. T. Pullen, with W. A. Christian as alternate. The Davidson team had the affirmative side of the
question. The debate was held in the Winthrop College auditorium. This is the second time the Davidson and P. C.
teams have met. Davidson won last year. Davidson seems to have gotten a slow start in debating this year. For
about the last 20 years the local team has won over two-thirds of its debates, but this year two contests
have already been lost.

CLEMSON TRACK TEAM (Continued from page 1)

Two mile — Fickett (Tech), Roberts (Tech), Penn (Dav.) Time 10 minutes 33 4-5 seconds.
120 High hurdles—Blackeney (Clem.), Roberts (Tech), Sims (Dav.) Time 16 1-5 seconds.
220 low hurdles—Banks (Clem), Blakeney (Clem), Sprick (Tech). Time 27 seconds.
Pole-vault—Odell (Clem.), Conley (Tech), Jennings (Dav.) and Cullum (Clem.) tied for second and third. Height 12 ft.
High jump—Calhoun (Dav.), Perkins (Tech); Brock and Odell (Clem). Height 5 ft. 9 inches.
Discus—Hood (Tech), Ivy (Tech), Shannon (Dav.) Distance 119 ft.
Broad jump—Odell (Clem), Jones (Tech), Midkiff (Clem.) Distance 21 ft. 1 inch.
Javelin—Dupree (Clem.), Beason (Clem.), Bohannon (Dav.) Distance 148 ft. 8 inches.
Shot Put—Hood (Tech), Finklea (Clem.), Roy (Clem.) Distance, 40 ft. 3 1-4 inches.

Fellows: You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive It Ford at the right price at Henderson's Filling Station Davidson, N. C.

PILOT MOUNTAIN: NORTH CAROLINA

THE PILOT

For the College Man

The Pilot Life Insurance Company provides a contract at one-half regular premium rates during the first five years. This liberal
feature makes it convenient for the college man to get his life insurance at his present age and carry it
for the least possible cost during college days. See that you get your protection from the Pilot.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
GREENSBORO, N.C.
A. W. McALISTER, President

THE MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL

Synonymous for excellent board and good service---at just the right price

“Davidsonians” play five nights a week during dinner hour

“Feeds,” “Smokes” and Banquets given special attention

MANAGERS
E. E. BOHANNON
H. L. SHAW, Jr.

Stepping Right Out This Season

We’ve got some wonderfully good-looking shades and fabrics

Mail orders solicited

THE VOGUE
THE SHOP FOR MEN
15 East Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
