6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1926

The following is Thomas Texas Jones’ All-American Football Team:

Name College Position
Point, of Penn Left End
Governor, of State Left Tackle
Hills, of Georgia Left Guard
Swamps, of Florida Center
Roads, of Mississippi Right Guard
Cactus, of Texas Right Tackle
Manners, of Boston Right End
Poly, of Tech Left Half
Dollar, of Iowa Right Half
Beware, of South Carolina Quarterback, and CAPTAIN
Marshes, of Glenn Fullback
Ponzi, of Wall Street, Manager and Director of Finances.
Barrs, of Lavenworth, Trainer and Faculty Advisor.

Coaches: Essex, Mail, Packard, Pullman, and Day.
Line coaches: Cedar, of Lebanon, and “Red” Wood, of California.

J. L. DORAN
Plumbing and heating. Hot water, vapor, steam
ARCOLA SPECIALTY
Free estimates gladly given. Repair work
“Service that serves”
Phone 29
DAVIDSON, N. C.

ART FLOWER SHOP
The home of Beautiful Flowers
Flowers for the Home, Weddings and all Occasions
Expert Designing
Prompt Delivery
ART FLOWER SHOP — DAVIS ROBINSON, Prop.
336 N. Tryon Street
Phone 6728
Charlotte, N. C.
Night Phone--County 3321-3260

THE MASS GAME
An Interesting Discussion of Sports By Popular Officer Now Coaching Boxing at Davidson
BY CAPT. JOHN ELKINS

and the spectators as Davidson threatened time after time to go ahead. In Gresham and Captain Dickens, Coach Tebelle has
the two best forwards seen on the Davidson court this season, while Spence when shifted to center played good ball.
Tom Anderson and Hewlette, both playing guard, did most of the Davidson scoring, with six and eight points each. Hewlette’s

Athletic contests have become as much a part of the leading educational institutions of today as the curriculum. Colleges and
universities have their football, basketball, baseball, track, boxing and wrestling, lacrosse and other teams. The various sports supported by the
collegiate athletic associations tend to promote college spirit and are a splendid publicity medium, the latter being seemingly necessary at
the present time when, even though a college may turn away prospective students each year, endowments and gifts are largely
influenced by the visible results being obtained by the college through its athletic teams.

Unfortunately, the American tendency is to develop to the highest degree the athletic qualifications of the men who have shown
beyond average skill in certain sports and to neglect, from the standpoint of athletic training, the vast majority who occupy
the grandstands and bleachers when games are in progress. This is especially true at our colleges and universities. At the
football game, for example, 11 men will be engaged earnestly disputing the efforts of their 11 opponents to put the
ball behind their goal line. Along the side lines there will be from 25 to 50 other men, substitutes, who
may or may not get into the game. In the grandstands and bleachers will be from a few hundred to
several thousand students who are thoroughly enjoying the situation but who, other than some lung development, are deriving no physical
benefit therefrom. The largest majority of those who are watching the game probably take no form of exercise. It is
from this latter group of men that players must be gotten for future football teams and it is this group
of men that should receive the advantage of preparatory athletic training which will later lead to their development into either
the finished athlete or better physical specimens. Incidentally, the survey of the physical condition of the young men of this
country during the World War indicated a very low physical standard. Municipalities, through the medium of the public recreation center,
and colleges, through a supervised system of athletic training, are doing much to raise the physical standards of the nation.

A remedy for the tendency on the part of the average college student to take but little exercise is found
in the mass game. In these games the college man who has never been given a standardized system of exercise
and who has never come in physical contact with other boys or men learns self-control, develops initiative, and gains confidence
in himself. Lack of the latter element will contribute toward his failure in his chosen profession or business after leaving
college. Parenthetically, the man who is not afraid to pit his physical strength against an opponent will not be afraid
to try mental conclusions with a competitor when the occasion arises.

In enumerating the mass games suitable for college use the ones capable of accommodating the greatest number of men will
be taken up first and the others mentioned in their importance relative to the numbers possible of participation therein. First
we have push ball, in which it is possible to have from 100 to 1,000 men playing. The game may
be played in any area that is large enough and has a comparatively level surface. The ball is a pneumatic
ball about six feet in diameter. The object of the game is for one team to push the ball across
the opposing team’s goal line. The rules are simple, being largely based on sportsmanlike individual conduct. No kicking, tripping, hitting,
or other unfair tactics as regards any opponent are permitted. The ball becomes “dead” only when pushed across the end
lines or when it goes over the side lines. The game may be for a certain period of play agreed
upon by the opposing teams or it may be divided into short periods with intervals of rest in between. Ordinarily
the short periods are more desirable.

Another interesting mass game in which there is a great deal of continuous action is speed ball. This is a
combination of football, basketball, and soccer. It is played with a soccer ball. From 50 to 500 players may participate
in a game. The ball may be passed, kicked, dribbled, hit, or carried. A player may beTackled if running with
the ball but otherwise the rules common to individual conduct in basketball obtain. A field 100 yards long and 50
yards wide is desirable. The goal posts must be placed an increased distance apart as the number of players on
each team increases.

A third mass game that has proven popular is cage ball. From 50 to 250 players may participate in this
game. The game consists of one team trying to put an inflated, 36-inch ball in their opponent’s cage at the
end of the field. The cage is a box-shaped, net affair about 12 feet long, three feet wide, and three
feet deep. The ball may be hit or carried. Lacking the net cages, two uprights with a crossbar may be
used, the requirement for scoring being that the ball go over the crossbar.

Another game, known as servus ball, is played very much like volleyball. An 18-inch ball is used and the court
is wider. From 50 to 200 men may play the game, which consists of knocking the ball across the net
from one side of the court to the other until one team fails to return or knocks it out of
bounds. Only the serving team may win a point, failure to make a point by the server causing the serve
to go over to the opponents.

A mass game that has become very popular, especially at schools which have a soccer team, is mass soccer. This
game is played with a soccer ball and there may be as many as 100 players on each side. The
rules are the same as soccer. This is an open game presenting considerable opportunity for the coordination of eye and
muscle and demanding extended exertion of the players.

The attractive feature of the foregoing games is that the players require no special athletic equipment. Tennis shoes and some
distinguishing mark to tell the difference between “friend and foe” are the only special equipment necessary. Because of the spirit
of friendly rivalry created by mass games, many athletic directors favor them as a substitute for gymnasium work in connection
with all-around athletic training. Naturally, the specialists require special equipment and instruction. It is in the mass game, however, that
the ambition to become a finished athlete is formed in the mind of the man who has never participated in
sports, and the mass game will do much toward creating promising material for the teams that represent the school or
college in intercollegiate contests.

North Carolina State brought a final quint to Davidson Monday night to defeat the Wildcats 33-24 in a game that
was played before the largest crowd on the local floor in years. Led by the flashy Gresham and the accurate
shooting of Captain Dickens, the State team showed a fast attack that piled up an eight-point lead before the Wildcats
could get together. Davidson gradually cut this down till the Techmen led by only a field goal, finishing the first
half five points behind State at 21-26. Captain Laird led off the second period with a quick shot from the
field. Neither team was able to score as in the first period, the Wildcats holding State to 12 points in
this half.

Although ever leading the Wildcats, the game was highly exciting to both Techmen playing varied, at times being of high
order, while Anderson and Captain Laird’s floor work was best for Davidson. Line-up and summary:

Davidson (24) Position N. C. State (33)
Harrison (c) (6) RF Dickens (c) (14)
Huie (5) LF Spence (6)
Wilson (1) C Brown
Anderson (6) RG Watkins (2)
Pearson LG McDowall (2)

Substitutions: For Davidson—Hewlette (8) for Harrison; Simpson for Huie; Huie for Simpson; Harrison for Hewlette; Hewlette for Huie; Simpson for
Harrison. For N. C. State—Gresham for Brown; Williams for Gresham (9); Brown for Spence; Gresham for Dickens; Williams for Dickens;
Dickens for Brown. Davidson 6 out of 14; State, 5 out of 9; field goals for Davidson, 9; State, 14.
Referee, Rawson (University of Georgia).

With nearly 40 members present, the Phi Literary Society held the first meeting of the new year. The devotional exercises
were conducted by Frank Hall. After the reading of the minutes, the main debate took place, the subject being, Resolved,
That a Federal Cooperative Marketing Board be Established. The affirmative was upheld by J. C. Frye and R. A. Glenn.
They were opposed by B. H. Thomas and Frank Jarmen. A committee composed of C. H. Mauzey, J. P. McBride,
and F. A. Ratchford rendered a decision in favor of the negative.

Much hilarity ensued when L. C. Wadsworth and H. W. Tucker debated on the merits of Florida and Tennessee, Wadsworth
winning for Florida. The business meeting was cut short so that the members could attend the concert in Shearer Hall.

“Thad a hot argument yesterday.”

“Our hat buyer wanted to use this space to advertise some new collegiate hats.”

“The shoe buyer insisted on it to mention a new $7 oxford he has.”

“The furnishings buyer suggested ties, wool sox, mufflers, gloves and a dozen or so other things.”

“So I asked the clothing buyer to settle the argument, and his instant reply was, ‘Suits and Overcoats’!”

“So there you are!”

“I can’t advertise everything in one little space, so I'll just say that we have everything that young men wear.”

---The ad man for---

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

STUDENTS

We are located in the town of Davidson for your benefit and invite you to look over our stock of
goods. You will find a complete line of the things that a young man likes, and you will find them
of the best quality and the lowest prices.

THE GLOBE CLOTHING Co.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS
RECORDS AND ROLLS
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC
OLDEST IN THE STATE

ANDREW MUSIC STORE
N. Tryon St. 2138
