TH Vol. XII | FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 29, 1926 ONIAN No. 29

COLLEGE JOURNALISTS CONVENE AT GUILFORD FOR NEXT

Josephus Daniels Will Address Convention—Officers Will be Elected—Vote for Best College Paper Will be Taken

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will meet at Guilford College April 29 and 30 and May 1. This is
the semi-annual meeting of the association and important matters will be discussed. A vote will be taken as to the
best college newspaper in the state. The Davidsonian has received this honor for the past two years. All of the
Davidson publications will be represented. W. L. Lingle and V. S. Broyles will represent The Davidsonian. Boyce Martin and Caldwell
Withers will be sent from the annual staff and Mack Austin will represent The Chameleon. Only these will be allowed
to vote upon any action which the association may take but other men expect to attend the convention as visitors.

The conference will be under the direction of The Guilfordian. Byron A. Haworth, editor of this paper is in charge
of all arrangements, both as to lectures and as to entertainment of the delegates. Approximately fifty delegates from all the
leading colleges in North Carolina will be in attendance.

One of the highlights of the convention will be an address by Josephus Daniels, editor of the Raleigh News and
Observer. Mr. Daniels has not only been prominent in political circles in this country, but is also one of the
nation's leading editors. His editorial comment is widely read.

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association was founded some four or five years ago. Ever since its inauguration it has
held semi-annual meetings at different state schools, at which time financial problems and policy questions have been discussed. The new
officers for the coming year will be elected at this meeting.

(Continued on page 8)

Peace Oratoricals To Take Place Monday

Hollingsworth Wins Over Williams and Pullen to Represent Davidson in Event

The State Peace Oratorical Contest will be held in Shearer Hall Monday night at 8:00 p.m. Speakers from all of
the leading colleges in North Carolina will enter the event which is an annual affair. A. H. Hollingsworth will represent
Davidson College. Professor Perisho of Guilford College will preside at the contest. He is president of the State Peace Association,
a noteworthy organization. Other notable men who have given much time to the study of world peace will also be
present. Two prizes in cash will be awarded. The first will be sixty dollars and the second forty dollars. These
prizes have been donated by the association.

Hollingsworth was chosen to represent Davidson from a field of three men. The other candidates were C. W. Williams and
E. T. Pullen. Williams was chosen as alternate. Hollingsworth is one of the best-known speakers on the campus having been
a winner in a number of oratorical contests upon different subjects. He has also been an inter-collegiate debater. Williams ranks
high among forensic circles having been upon the debating team for the past two years.

(Continued on page 2)

Davidson Defeated by V. P. I. Debaters

The V. P. I. Debating Team defeated the Davidson Debating Team last Tuesday night. The query was, Resolved: “That the
Military forces of the United States should be consolidated into a single department of national defense with sub-divisions of the
Army, Navy, and Air Force.” Dr. Lingle presided. The invocation was pronounced by Dr. R. A. White, of Mooresville, and
N. D. Coghill opened the discussion as the first speaker of the affirmative.

Davidson upheld the negative side of the question very ably, but the fact that V. P. I. attacked the question
from an unexpected angle apparently threw the home team off its stride, and they found it hard to regain the
ground lost. However, A. Y. Bowie and C. W. Williams, the members of the team, advanced very logical arguments and
presented them in an experienced manner. Both Bowie and Williams have represented Davidson in former inter-collegiate debates. L. I. Guy
and M. B. Coghill, representing V. P. I., showed a thorough knowledge of the question and so presented their points
that they won by a two to one decision of the judges.

The judges of the debate were: Mr. L. T. Hartsell of Concord, Dr. R. A. White, of Mooresville, and Judge
W. F. Harding of Charlotte. Bill Christian presided as alternate.

(Continued on page 7)

Netmen Cop Title in State Doubles

The Davidson Tennis Team returned from Chapel Hill Saturday night with the Doubles Championship of North Carolina. The team was
composed of L. M. McCutchen and R. W. Carr. This team has not been defeated this year winning matches from
Clemson, Georgia Tech, and two from the University of South Carolina. This makes the second year that Davidson has won
this championship, McCutchen and Price being the winners last year. Both of these men will return next year to defend
their title.

The men that represented Davidson in the tournament were, L. M. McCutchen, captain, R. W. Carr, S. W. Brown, and
J. A. McAlpine. In the singles Carr went to the semi-final losing to Whitner, of Duke, who held the state
championship in 1924. McCutchen and McAlpine drew byes in the first round of the singles. McCutchen lost to Whitner in
the second round. Carr, McAlpine, and Brown won their matches in the second round. In the third round McAlpine and
Brown lost their matches, but Carr came through to the semi-finals. Whitner and Rogers, both of Duke, will play for
the singles championship at a post-tournament date.

In the doubles Brown and McAlpine won their first match from Trotter and Elgin, of Guilford. They were defeated in
the second round by Whitner and Rogers, of Duke. McCutchen and Carr defeated the team from Carolina in the first
round and Powers and Sawyer of Wake Forest in the second round. In the finals they defeated Whitner and Rogers
for the championship. Since 1921 Davidson has had a team winning in the finals. In 1921-22-23, High (Continued on page
2)

Clemson Track Team is Winner in Triple Meet With Davidson and Tech

Goodykoontz Scores Thirteen Points for Davidson

DAVIDSON THIRD

D. M. Calhoun Wins High Jump—Penn Comes in Third in Two-Mile Event

In the triangular track meet held at Clemson College last Saturday, the Clemson Tigers came out on top, winning over
Georgia Tech and Davidson. The scores were, Clemson 57 1-3; Georgia Tech 43 1-3; Davidson 25 1-3. A stiff wind
hindered the runners somewhat, and no records were broken. However, Goodykoontz made a name for himself by winning two firsts
and one second place in the dashes. After winning the century in the good time of 10 1-5 seconds, “Goody”
romped off with the 220 in 22 flat, a half a second under the record, which was established by the
same sprinter a week ago. He then captured a second in the quarter.

D. M. Calhoun was the only other man to win a first for Davidson. He was in good form, and
cleared 5 ft. 9 in. The hard luck which seemed to follow the Wildcats in last Saturday’s meet continued. Captain
“Red” Anderson received an injury to his ankle while pole-vaulting, keeping him out of the hurdles. Clement Penn, the crack
two-miler, began to have trouble with his leg. Taking the lead early in his race, he held it until the
seventh lap when the pain in his leg became too intense. After rubbing it for a little while, Penn took
after the runners withDetermination and half ran, half limped into the finish to win third place. The time for the
two-mile was 10:36 2-5, over ten seconds slower than the time of Penn in the South Carolina meet nearly two
weeks ago. The results:

100 yd. dash—Goodykoontz (Dav.), Mitchell (Clem.), Turner (Clem.) Time 10 1-5 seconds.
220 yd. dash—Goodykoontz (Dav.), Schwab (Tech), Smith (Dav.) Time 22 seconds.
440 yd. dash—Roy (Clem.), Goodykoontz (Dav.), Smith (Dav.) Time 51 4-5 seconds.
Half mile—Newman (Clem.), (Tech), Wright (Tech). Time 2 minutes 3 4-5 seconds.
Mile—Newman (Clem.), Roberts (Tech), Wright (Tech). Time 4 minutes 52 seconds.

(Continued on page 6)

CLASS BASEBALL

The annual class baseball games will start next week when the Sophs line up against the Juniors. This and class
basketball are the only important inter-mural sports on the athletic program at Davidson. Any man in school who has not
played as many as three innings with the varsity or freshman teams. The Sophs will meet the Juniors on the
sixth of May, the Seniors meet the Freshmen on the seventh, and the winners of these two games will play
for the title on the eleventh. An additional rule states that the managers of both teams must agree on the
umpires. Each class has elected a manager and practice will begin immediately. Billy Long will manage the Seniors, Droopy Hudgins
the Juniors, H. L. Laws the Sophomores, and Buck Jennings the Freshmen.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA INITIATES THIRTY-SIX ALUMNI AND STUDENTS

Ten Men Get Bids to Reporters’ Club

At a meeting of the Reporters’ Club held about a month ago, seven new members, all of them being freshmen,
were elected. Due to the fact that the club wished to select several additional members, the names of these men
have not been published up to this time. Three other new men were elected at a recent meeting and the
number of new members amounts to ten. With the exception of one sophomore, all of them are freshmen. The men
elected at the first meeting were: R. H. Lannion, R. R. Nain, C. R. Cake, A. N. Brown, B. McQueen,
J. L. Ely, and J. R. Jones. The other three are Tyree Dillard, John Moriarty, and Louis Wadsworth. It has
been the policy of the Reporters’ Club in the past to elect freshmen in the spring and upperclassmen in the
fall. Last fall, four upperclassmen received this honor and several more will probably be elected this coming fall as there
are about five men reporting for the Davidsonian who have not made the club. At the present time, there are
about 25 men on the Reporters’ Club. Approximately 50 men, or five percent of the student body, are reporting. The
fact that six of these have recently been appointed to the editorial staff of the Davidsonian will leave vacant places
to be filled by the new members and so the membership of the club will remain about the same.

(Continued on page 7)

Davidson Leaders Go to Conference

The Southern Federation of Colleges held its annual meeting at Washington and Lee University during the past week. Jim Pinkney,
student body president, and Tom Baker, former incumbent of that position, were Davidson's representatives at the convention. All of the
leading social problems of college life today were discussed. About forty delegates from the leading colleges and universities of the
South attended the conference, which lasted for a three-day period. Officers for the coming year were elected. Jim Pinkney was
elected secretary and treasurer, a position which carries with it the responsibility of planning the convention for next year. Student
government and the honor system were first discussed in all its phases. Three students spoke on this topic. Pinkney spoke
on the special subject “The Scope and Interpretation of the Honor System.” Inter-collegiate and inter-mural athletics were thoroughly discussed. As
a whole, the delegates utterly opposed professionalism among college players and also their payment of money by over-ardent alumni. The
fraternity system was reviewed and an effort was made to find a method of placing fraternity and non-fraternity men upon
a better social basis. Drinking and dancing were also discussed in connection with college social life. Many social events were
intermixed with the regular meetings, with a visit to Natural Bridge, Virginia, and a banquet at Old Dutch Inn as
the highlights. Informal dinners and luncheons were also held for the benefit of the delegates. The convention will meet next
year at Washington and Lee University.

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. William H. Brown, Professor of Psychology at Washington and Lee University, Delivers Address at Ceremonies

Dr. William H. Brown, professor of psychology at Washington and Lee University, national secretary of the Omicron Delta Kappa national
honorary fraternity, and one of its original founders at Washington and Lee, was the principal speaker at the initiation of
11 Davidson College students and 25 prominent alumni of Davidson here on Monday night. Asking and answering the question, “How
Shall We Define Education?” in an entirely different light from what is generally used, Dr. Brown first cited several textbook
definitions of education, showing the fallacy of them in their true and current interpretation. “Some textbooks say that education is
the production and prevention of changes in human beings; that it is adjustment to one's environment; that education is synonymous
with growth, and that education is the same as life, but most of these terms can be applied to animals
and plants. Can we say that they are educated?” he asked. “Education means nothing more nor nothing less than appreciation,”
said the speaker, in presenting the new angle from which to view this subject. “A man who is educated must
have an appreciation of three things: life’s ideal, life’s values, and life’s duty.” “Averring that it is absolutely necessary for
a man to have some sort of ideal, definitely set up, some idea of a goal, though he may never
reach it, Dr. Brown declared that without it “life would be a drudgery” because an ideal is the thing which
“grips us, leads us on, and gives us enthusiasm.” “The most difficult lesson for a man to learn, whether it
be in college, or in the hard knocks of life, is to refrain from doing what he wants to do
and to do what he ought to do,” he said.

(Continued on page 8)

Austin Announces Next Year’s Magazine Staff

Warren Ogden is Short Story Editor—Witherspoon Will be Business Manager

John W. Austin, who was recently elected to the position of editor-in-chief of the Magazine for the coming year, recently
announced his staff to work with him in producing the magazine. This staff will not function until next year, the
first issue to appear somewhere about Thanksgiving and to be called the Thanksgiving issue. Four or five issues in all
will be published, one before Christmas, a Christmas issue, and then two or three after Christmas. To aid Austin in
his work, W. C. Ogden has been chosen as the short story editor. As essay editor, L. D. Wharton was
selected to serve. James H. Caligan will be poetry editor, and J. G. Wharton will serve as review and exchange
editor. As contributing editors, Austin has chosen men from all three classes: T. G. McCutchen, William S. Woods, Boyce Martin,
John P. McKnight, and Robert Brittain. Eugene D. Witherspoon will act as business manager, but the rest of the business
staff will be selected later. The name of the magazine for the coming year will be changed to The Chameleon.
This name was chosen by Sigma Upsilon, the literary society.

(Continued on page 7)
