THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1927

LETTERS AWARDED FOR WINTER SPORTS

Basketball:
Laird D*** - Anderson D* - Simpson D - Harrison D - Garrison (Mgr.) D

Wrestling:
W. D. Cox D** - Harry Vance D** - J. Frierson D* - Barrington D* - Crinkley D - Maulden
D - Davis D - Estridge D

Athletic Association Honors Fifteen Athletes With Letters in Two Sports

At a recent meeting of the athletic council, the above men were awarded letters for their services on the basketball
and wrestling teams. These men will receive sweaters, and the basketball team will probably be further rewarded with gold basketballs.

Laird is a four-letter man in basketball, having made a letter his freshman year. He was captain of this year’s
team and is also a star on the football and baseball teams. Flake was the winner of the Norris Cup
his sophomore year, which is the highest honor that can be paid to an athlete at Davidson. L. B. Huie,
B. A. Wilson, J. A. Simpson, C. W. Harrison, and J. M. Garrison, manager, made their letters for the first
time. Buie is also on the baseball squad and bids fair to win his second letter. Harrison is a letter
man in football and is also out for baseball. Charlie bids fair to be one of the best athletes ever
at Davidson as he is a sophomore now. J. M. Garrison, the manager, is one of the outstanding men of
the class of '26.

T. F. Anderson, the high scorer of last year, repeated this year, scoring. Ben Wilson, only a sophomore, and J.
A. Simpson is a junior. Both will be back next year, and Davidson should have a banner year in basketball.

In wrestling, W. D. Cox, captain, and J. C. Frierson, captain-elect, were mentioned on the all-Southern team. Neither of these
men were defeated, and Frierson holds a decision over the captain of the Navy team, considered by some as the
best wrestler in the southeast. Harry Vance, considered by some as the leading athlete at Davidson, was awarded his third
letter in the sport. This gives Harry eight letters, and he should receive one in baseball. J. C. Barrington was
awarded his letter for the second time and is one of the best wrestlers in his class in the South.
Crinkley, Maulden, Davis, and Estridge were awarded their letters for the first time and as all will be back next
year, the wrestling team of Davidson should be among the leading in the country. Among the meets being planned for
next year is one with the Army at West Point. Captain Weems, the coach of the team, is due much
praise as the record of the wrestling team has placed us at the front in wrestling this year.

PROFESSOR CURRIE HAS NUMBER OF BOYS SIGNED FOR BIG EUROPEAN TRIP

Prof. Archie Currie, who has been getting up a party of students to accompany him on a tour to Europe,
announces that six men have decided to go with him. Several more men are considering making the trip. The party
will go with the Babcock Tours, sailing from New York on June 26th, staying abroad two months. They will cover
seven countries, seeing all interesting places in each.

“The Barrier” to be the Biggest Film of Season

Lionel Barrymore and Henry Walthall Star in This Picture

The next picture show will be April 10th, no picture being shown this week. At this time “The Barrier” will
be presented. Marceline Day and Norman Berry play the leading roles in this very thrilling and fascinating picture of the
great northwest. Lionel Barrymore as Stack Bennett, and Henry B. Walthall as Gale, bring out vividly the rugged life of
Alaska. One of the most realistic fights ever staged before a camera is said to have been staged by these
men for “The Barrier.” A synopsis of the picture is as follows:

A baby girl is rescued from her brutal father, an American ship captain trading in Alaskan waters, by a kindly
seaman, when her mother, a full-blooded Indian, dies aboard the ship. She is brought up in ignorance of her half-Indian
parentage and does not learn of it until the eve of her marriage to an American army officer. She determines
to give him up and returns to her father, from whose brutality she is once more rescued, this time by
her lover, whose loyalty finally persuades her to marry him.

College Raises Sum to Equal Board's Donation

$125,000 Given to Davidson to Match $75,000 Donated by General Board

Announcement has been made by I. L. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson College, that $125,000 has recently been raised for the
endowment.Fund of that institution to match $75,000 offered by the General Education Board of New York. This amount was raised
with the assistance of $70,000 that was not included in pledges made in the $600,000 campaign. When this campaign was
launched several years ago, the college had a two-fold purpose: to increase the endowment and to add to the building
equipment. The first step was toward the erection of a wing of Chambers building, which need was paramount. Efforts were
then turned to the endowment, which culminated in the raising of the $125,000 by March 15th, and now the officials
are going to double their efforts to raise money enough to complete Chambers building. The present wing is only one-third
of the planned building. Approximately $200,000 has been spent on the south wing, and it is estimated that by the
time the remaining two-thirds is completed $600,000 will have been spent. In the past 15 years the endowment of Davidson
College has grown from $250,000 to $800,000; the equipment from a value of $250,000 to $900,000; the budget of the
college from $35,000 to $200,000, and the membership of the student body from 30 to 600.

Colleges of State Give Comments On Ideal Girl

“The Carolinian” Quotes The Davidsonian as Other Papers Follow Suit

When the girls of Converse initiated the search for an ideal man, the students of Davidson came back with their
conception of an ideal girl. This does not quite end the story, for now the other school papers in the
state are following up with their idea of feminine perfection. “The Carolinian,” of N.C.C.W., printed Davidsonian’s composite, attached: “We wonder
how many of our 1,700 girls measure up to the ideal of The Davidsonian? It’s too bad that the dream
girl should have such little understanding, since she is wearing a number four shoe and is five feet, five inches
tall.” The students probably thought that a smaller shoe would cramp her style.

We wonder what's to be done in consolation of those of poetic strain that held forth on the beauties of
their respective creations, immortalized in verse as having “raven locks,” “starry eyes,” “shell-like ears,” “swan-like necks,” and the form of
a sylph, while there are those wiseacres that preferred snub noses, hare-lips, donkey ears, and cloven hoofs. Let us not,
however, be like Diogenes, but, dousing the family glim, let us retire to the rut of daily pursuits, and employ
our time in more profitable tasks.

“Just a few words mumbled over your head and you're married!”
“Yes, and a few words mumbled in your sleep and you're divorced!”

BOYS!
For the latest magazines
For the best smokes
For the most refreshing drinks
For toilet articles of the highest quality
WALTER CULBRETH
Next to Vance Hotel
Statesville, N.C.

THE VANCE HOTEL
A GOOD HOTEL
Try our special dinner
STATESVILLE, N.C.

AUSTIN'S CANDY SHOP
STATESVILLE, N.C.
127 West Broad Street
When you come up for those spring dances bring her in today.

© 1926, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N.C.

P.A. throws pipe-peeves for a loss

AND the bigger they are, the harder they fall, as Shakespeare or somebody said. You can prove this beyond question
with a jimmy-pipe and a tidy red tin of Prince Albert. Any time. Anywhere. As a matter of fact, tackling
pipe-grouches is P.A.’s regular business. Cool and sweet and fragrant, P.A.’s wonderful smoke comes curling up the pipe-stem, filling your
system with a new brand of pipe-pleasure. You smoke—and smile! For the first time in your life, you’ve found the
one tobacco that scales to your blueprint of bliss. Slow or fast, no matter how you feed it, P.A. never
bites your tongue or parches your throat. Those important items were taken care of in the original plans by the
Prince Albert process. Get yourself a tidy red tin of this friendly tobacco—no other tobacco is like it! P.A. is
sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always
with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.
