THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1926

FIVE SHINING LIGHTS IN CAROLINA’S GRID GALAXY

The fan who looks with pessimism on Carolina’s chances to attain gridiron fame in the future should take a glance
at the five players above, whose performances in behalf of the Tar Heels this season have made history for the
University. They are, reading from left to right: Captain “Red” Whisnant, powerful Tar Heel guard, playing his last year on
the University eleven. He is one of Carolina’s most consistent players and a marvel on the defense. Next to Whisnant
is “Bunn” Hackney, veteran Tar Heel field general, whose educated toe has more than once brought victory to his teammates.
He is also captain of Carolina’s Southern championship basketball team for the coming season.

The fellow who looks as if he would send the pigskin sailing through the crossbars is none other than “Red”
Ellison, who has been converted into a triple-threat man by the Carolina coaches. He is said to be able to
kick, run, and pass with equal ease and ability. This is his first year on the varsity squad. The giant
who stands next to Ellison is Harry Schwartz, who two years ago won all-southern prep honors as a member of
the Charlotte High School team. Last fall, while playing at center for the Carolina rats, he was mentioned for all-Conference
Freshman honors. The last gentleman on the right is Garrett Morehead, former Charlotte High teammate of Schwartz, who bids fair
to take the place in the eyes of fans that was held last year by big George Robinson. Morehead, playing
his second year on the Tar Heel varsity, prepped at Woodberry Forest School.

REMINISCENCES OF AN OLD TIMER

Did you see the Carolina game last year? Say, young fellow, don’t try to get fresh with me. They call
me Old Timer, but I’m right there when it comes to getting to all the Davidson-Carolina games. Why, I haven’t
missed a game in 12 years, and this—but wait, and I'll start where the beginning begins and tell you the
whole story.

I can recollect way back in 1914, when men were menacing and boys were boisterous. I happened to be in
Winston-Salem on October 31. Yep, I was working then, selling chewing tobacco as a side line, but my main occupation
was chewing it. Well, a buddy of mine had two tickets to the game, so I had to go, ‘cause
I didn’t want one of ’em to go to waste. This was the first game I had ever seen, but
was it the last? Not on your life, for when I saw the Wildcats fight, fight, fight, as it was
then called, to a blank score in the first half, I knew there was something besides brawn that was carrying
them on. The same spirit that carried those boys through that game has stuck with me for all these years.
That game was as pretty a fight as I’ve ever seen, and though we were “out-scored,” we were not out-played,
not by a long shot. And when McKinnon would get off one of his 60-yard punts, I thought that old
pigskin would never come to earth again.

Well, the next year, I just happened to be, accidentally on purpose, in Winston-Salem again when we played Carolina. Though
the same Davidson spirit and “pep” that had fought the same team as valiantly the year before was there, we
were up against a heavier and more experienced team. And would you have ever dreamed that the little right end
of the Wildcat line was destined to become head coach of Davidson athletics within the next ten years? Whether you
would have dreamed it or not, the right end who caught a forward pass and ran 15 yards on the
second play of the game with the Tar Heels on November 13, 1915, was Monk Younger himself. This was only
his freshman year in Davidson, but he made four varsity letters.

Now comes the sad chapter of my story. Undeserved defeat is extra bitter. And in 1916, the Wildcats certainly deserved
a win and not a defeat. Although they fought, out-played, out-guessed, and out-classed the University of North Carolina in every
way, they were defeated.Davidson outgained 252 yards in scrimmage, to 175 gained by Carolina, made 15 first downs to 7
made by Carolina, and completed 3 out of 5 attempted passes, while the Tar Heels completed only 1 out of
5. But old Dame Fortune decided that to have its team defeat Carolina and to have Woodrow Wilson re-elected to
the presidency of the United States was too much to allow Davidson within the limits of one week. But the
Tar Heels were evidently becoming frightened at the Wildcats, for in 1917 Carolina did not put out a team.

But in 1918 the Wildcats avenged themselves by snatching the state championship title from the Tar Heels in an exciting
game at Winston-Salem. And who could be the star of this game but the well-known L. Richardson (one of the
donors of the Richardson Field and Stadium). The final score was 10-6, with Davidson at the wrong end. The superior
weight and experience proved too much for Davidson. Despite the fight and hold “the best team that Carolina ever had”
in every department of the annual game in Winston-Salem, it was to no avail.

In the game of 1918, L. Richardson scooped up a fumble and ran 60 yards for the only score of
the game. I’ve got to hurry on—but say, I can’t keep from saying a word about the game in 1920,
when “Gig” Shepherd raced 25 yards around left end for a touchdown, winning lasting honors and praise of Davidson students
and supporters. And now the time has come when there are no outstanding scores made by Carolina over the Wildcats.
The outcome of every game is doubtful, because there is always a scrap between the Wildcats and Tar Heels, and
every member on each team is out for blood. The game Saturday? It is certainly going to be a scrap,
but you'd better watch those fighting Wildcats!

Pi Kappa Phi—John Womack, Reidsville, N. C.; Pet Boyd, Warrenton, N. C.; Bob Croombs, Maxton, N. C.; Murphy McKinnon, Maxton,
N. C.; Billy Best, Goldsboro, N. C.; Scot Brown, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Doc Kugler, Washington, N. C.

S. A. E—Slaton Clemmons, Columbus, Ga.; Lawson Neel, Thomasville, Ga.; L. A. Mills, Greenville, S. C.; A. L. Mills, Greenville,
S. C.; S. R. Coker, Hartsville, S. C.

Theta Upsilon Omega—R. W. Kirkpatrick, Anderson, S. C.; V. A. Milton, Thomasville, Ga.; R. W. McDermid, Charleston, S. C.; S.
W. Morris, Greenville, Miss.; J. C. Allen, Addison, Ky.

Delta Theta Chi—Charles Pratt, Louisville, Ky.; John Stork, Louisville, Ky.; Louis Lee Barr, Greenville, S. C.; B. C. Kilgore, Paducah,
Ky.; J. L. Smith, Dunn, N. C.; J. T. Matthews, Washington, D. C.; J. A. Brown, Cleveland, N. C.; L.
C. Roberts, Shelby, N. C.

Pyramid Club—Mac Robinson, Charlotte, N. C.; Ham Pettus, Asheville, N. C.; John Knox, Liberty, S. C.; John McInnis, Concord, N.
C.; Tom Morgan, Mebane, N. C.; Fred Hamrick, Rutherfordton, N. C.; Ed Close, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Sigma Delta—Langdon C. Hubbard, Fayetteville, N. C.; Allan Wilson, Montreat, N. C.; Z. V. Long, Statesville, N. C.; W. R.
Hill, Statesville, N. C.; B. Arrington, Sanford, Fla.; J. B. Matthews, Rock Hill, S. C.; Allen O'Neal, Bainbridge, Ga.; Nat
Hunt, Lexington, N. C.; Nelson Hodgins, Greensboro, N. C.; J. L. McNair, Laurinburg, N. C.

(Continued on page 8)

SIXTY-FOUR MEN PLEDGED

Pi Kappa Alpha—J. B. Brawley, Durham, N. C.; W. C. Kirkland, Fitzgerald, Ga.; C. C. Orr, Asheville, N. C.; B.
M. DeArmond, Charlotte, N. C.; T. Russel Newnan, Atlanta, Ga.; R. F. Jarratt, San Antonio, Texas; William Dobbins, Selma, Ala.;
R. Murray Christian, Mobile, Ala.; T. W. Brohard, Grafton, W. Va.; Howard R. Mobley, Reidsville, N. C.; Allan Wilson, Montreat,
N. C.

THE FOUR-SQUARE STORES
DRY GOODS AND NOTIONS
SHOES AND HOSIERY
HARDWARE AND STOVES
FURNITURE AND FLOOR COVERINGS
FANCY AND STAPLE GROCERIES
FUNERAL DIRECTORS
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
