6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1926

Good Progress is Made by Marksmen

The rifle team of Davidson College is making good progress in the Fourth Corps Area intercollegiate rifle competition. Scores for the first and second stages have already been fired. The following men compose this team: Purcell, Alexander, W. A., Lake, J., Crawford, G. W., Alexander, A. W., Abernathy, R. G., Taylor, C. W., Albright, C. J., Brown, E. E., Wall, T. B., Gudger, T. M., Maddox, K. P., McMillan, G., Overton, J., Short, Z., and Erwin, F. T.

In the first stage, the highest total score was 186, for which Brown, Taylor, and Short tied. Taylor and Gudger made the highest scores from any one position in this stage. This was 97 from prone positions. Taylor made a score of 88 in the sitting position, which gave him a slight lead over Gudger. The next highest scores in order from the prone position were as follows: Lake, 96; Overton, 96; Purcell, 95; Short, 95; Alexander, W. A., 94.

In the second stage, Wall, T. B., fired the highest total score. This was 187. The second and third in order were Alexander, A. W., with a total score of 179, and Abernathy, R. G., with a total score of 178. The fourth highest total score was 177, for which several men tied. The highest score fired from any one position in this stage was 98, made by Alexander, W. A., from a prone position. The second and third highest scores from this position were 97 and 94, made by Brown and Wall. A trophy is offered to the college team making the highest score in this competition. It is now held by the University of Florida.

IMPERIAL
Charlotte, N. C.
Now Playing
RICHARD DIX
---IN---
“Woman Handled”
with ESTHER RALSTON
who is more beautiful than the “American Venus”
SWEET DADDY DIX
Come and see him do his stuff
Here’s one of the peppiest pictures of the season
~COMING MONDAY...
COLLEEN MOORE in “IRENE”
Her Biggest Yet

Freshmen Quintet Loses Last Two Games to Oak Ridge and State

Freshmen Play Listlessly as They Drop Both Games by Large Margins

In a very listless game Thursday night, the Oak Ridge Cadets defeated the Davidson Freshmen by a score of 39 to 23. Oak Ridge assumed the lead early in the game and was never seriously threatened. The play of the Cadets at times was superb; their passing and shooting were accurate. The Davidson team showed the effects of its recent trip. They had lost their pep and snap because of a strenuous series of games. At times they played a good, consistent game, but they could not maintain the rapid pace set by Oak Ridge. The outstanding performers were Miller and Scott, for Oak Ridge. Miller proved to all present that he has the potentialities of a great cage artist. His shooting and floor game were superb. Scott proved himself a terror on the defense; he was all over the floor. For Davidson, Captain Crawford and Leftwich played a strong game. The line-up was as follows:

Davidson (23) Position Oak Ridge (39)
Kirkman F Simpson
Crawford C Pierce
Leftwich RG Scott
Sturdevant G Reynolds

Substitutes: Davidson, Winberg. For Oak Ridge: Miller, Aycock, Swift, Beaver. Referee: Hengeveld.

STATE-FRESH GAME

Again and for the last time, the Davidson Wildkittens bowed in defeat before their opponents and thus closed the basketball season for the class of ’29. State came into the Wildkitten’s playhouse and marched away with the game at a tune of 43-16. From the very start, the State Fresh were on their toes and before the whistle had finished its echo, the score stood 4-0 in their favor. The State yearlings showed pep and defensive work which the Kittens were unable to penetrate and when the shot was fired for the first rest, the score was standing 18-7. Goodwin and Young displayed great form in scoring for their team. Goodwin was high point man with 16 points to his credit and his running mate was accredited with 12. Holden at guard showed his ability in the basketball art as a two-fold man, guarding and shooting. The outstanding player for the home team was Hunt, ringing up 11 of his team’s 16 points.

Davidson (16) Position State Fresh (43)
Goodwin (16) F Kerr (9)
Young (12) F Hunt (11)
Warring (2) C Crawford (2)
Holden (10) RG Leftwich
Wrextkgean (3) G Sturdevant

Subs. Davidson, Wenberg. Referee, Hengeveld (Davidson).

Held by Trackmen

In answer to Captain Anderson’s call, some thirty men reported at Richardson Field Monday afternoon at 4:30 for the first track practice of the season. The majority of this number were new men, as quite a few of last year’s squad were out for basketball or spring football. No attempt at a regular practice was made, in consideration of the effects of several months of inactivity on the part of a large number of the candidates, the plan being to work the men up gradually in an attempt to prevent too much soreness and stiffness at first. As a beginning, the entire squad took part in a short calisthenic drill led by Captain Anderson and ex-Captain Gracey. Next, the men trying out for the field events were sent to the outdoor gym to limber up a bit, while the track candidates jogged an easy lap or two. No effort was made to find out what events the various men intended to enter as the work for the first few days is the same for all events. However, before the week is out, each candidate will have his own particular task before him and will be down to real, earnest work. Though several good men have been lost since last year, a large part of last year’s team is still with us and under the leadership of Captain Anderson and the coaching of Gracey, captain of the team last spring, the future does not look bleak.As black as it might. Gracey will be missed this year in the hurdles, the shot, and javelin, for in spite of the fact that he is taking graduate work, he is not eligible, having completed his fourth season on the Wildcat track squad last spring.

Religious News

At the regular meeting last Sunday of the C. E., T. C. Pender McBryde acted as leader. Three members of the quartet of Columbia Seminary, who were at Davidson assisting Dr. Ogden in his series of Life Work Services, took charge and made the meeting interesting and beneficial. Mr. Marshall Dendy showed the class how to apply the Progressive Program to Christian Endeavor. The other two made short, impressive, and stirring talks, and then the three sang one of their favorite songs. The president announced that arrangements had been made for the class to conduct a program for one of the Christian Endeavor societies in Charlotte and that if nothing happened, the event takes place on the third Sunday in March. The class is studying “Expert Endeavor” at its regular meetings, and next Sunday they will discuss the Lookout Committee.

Ministerial Band

The Ministerial Band met Saturday afternoon with a large number present. Marshall Dendy, a member of the Columbia Theological Seminary quartet, made a very interesting talk on “Being a Good Soldier.” He told of the experiences of the soldiers of the late war and the many hardships they were forced to go through. He explained that their former preparation or training back in the camps meant much to them. All this was compared to our work for Christ. First comes the training camps where you receive your training for life’s work and later the battlefield or hardships you are forced to go through in putting the things you have learned into practice. If the love of Jesus is possessed, the life of a good soldier of Christ will not be hard. The meeting was concluded with a selection given by the quartet and a prayer by Dr. Ogden.

SEWANEE TAKES

The manager of the varsity debates for the coming season has announced that The University of the South, Sewanee, Tenn., has selected the affirmative side of the query which was submitted by Davidson some time ago. The Davidson team of two men goes to meet the Episcopalians on the 30th of April on the subject, Resolved: “That the military forces of the United States be combined into a department of National Defense with branches for the army, navy, and air forces.” Davidson’s preliminaries will be held March 6th.

Prohibition officers have recently discovered a still in a chicken house. Plans to conceal the thing had evidently been well-laid.

Varsity Quintet Defeats Furman but Drops Game to Fast Wofford Team

Cagers Take Exciting Match From Hurricane by Narrow Margin

Last Tuesday, on the second day of their South Carolina trip, the Davidson varsity overcame the powerful Furman quintet in Greenville by the close score of 33-30. This game came as an exciting climax to a previous game between the two schools at Davidson, which Furman won, 40-33. In the third game of the trip, the Wildcats lost to Wofford by a narrow margin of one point. After a fast and furious first half which developed everything in basketball both teams had to offer, the Davidson Wildcats fell behind in the second half and though the Presbyterians rallied and held the Terriers well, the contest ended 30 to 29 in favor of the Old Gold and Black. A field goal as the final whistle sounded gave Davidson her last two points. The retirement of Captain Laird of the Garnet and Black Quint after about six minutes of the second chapter had been reeled off, seemed to be a signal for both teams to let down. Wofford missed crip shots right and left while Davidson’s endurance seemed gone. Captain Habel and Shuler for Wofford played excellent games for the Terriers while the floor work of Laird and the accurate shooting of Huie stood out for the Wildcats.

Line-up:
Wofford - Davidson
Position
Habel (9) - Laird (8)
Lindsay (4) - Shuler (9)
Center
Lockman (4) - Anderson (4)
Guard
Wilson (2) - Simpson
Guard

Score by periods:
Wofford: 13 17—30
Davidson: 14 15—29

Substitutes:
Wofford: Dargan (4) for Smith.
Davidson: Harrison (2) for Laird, Hudgens for Harrison; Harrison for Hudgens.
Referee: Hecklen (Wofford.)

GLORIOUS FESTIVITY (Continued from page 1)

Intermixed with a good deal of humor. One of his pokes on Coach Mattox won the greatest applause of the evening. Prof. W. L. Porter, who is the class registrar, was unable to attend. The toastmaster read an original short poem which he had sent with his regrets. As the closing talk, Prof. K. J. Foreman gave a humorous talk on education in general, which proved to be a round of jokes. He kept the class in an uproar of laughter with his witty sayings. The quartet composed of R. S. Lowrance, John Foster, Lynn McLain, and R. M. Thompson rendered a number of selections. Miss Kohn, of Charlotte, accompanied by Mrs. Heath Nisbet, sang three solos which added greatly to the occasion. Following the banquet, the class, accompanied by the guests of honor, adjourned to the Imperial Theater to see Rudolph Valentino in “The Eagle.”

SIGMA PHI SIGMA (Continued from page 1)

The Charlotte Sanitarium. His life has been given to the study of the X-ray, and during his studies, he has made some of the most useful discoveries and done some of the finest work of all times in this line. Today he is regarded as one of the world’s most learned experts on the X-ray. The American X-ray Association has recently made him their president. Dr. Lafferty has given lectures in all the large cities of the country, and we are indeed fortunate to have the opportunity of listening to him.

Fresh Country Vegetables
Staple and Fancy Groceries
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
Davidson, N. C.

VISIT THE ALHAMBRA AND SEE
The Auction Block
By REX BEACH
March 1st and 2nd
DON'T MISS “MOANA” of the SOUTH SEAS
Ask about this picture

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.
—
Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
The Best Places to Eat
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS
RECORDS AND ROLLS
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC
OLDEST IN THE STATE
ANDREW MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.