THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1926

SANITY RARE WINS
(Continued from page 1)

articles in the magazine, and these were appropriately set off by short one-line witticisms and jokes. The staff was headed by Harllee Branch, Jr., as editor-in-chief; Garnett McMillan, Jr., as managing editor; and Kenneth Bell, as assistant managing editor. Other members of the board of editors included Warren Ogden, J. H. Caligan, Buford Webb, Claude Allen, and L. D. Wharton. Chief among the contributors to the magazine were: H. L. Shelby, W. A. Alexander, Bob Covington, R. L. Platt, John Slater, G. A. Fry, and C. F. Smith.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

This Week
GIANT DOBBS STRAW HAT
Size 38 7-8
Length 6 ft.
Width 5 ft.
Depth 18 inches
Weight 100 lbs.
Value $250

A wonderful showing of Gastonia Baseball Nine
SPORTOGRAPHS
Wins From Wildkittens By Ernest Milton in Fast Game Thursday

We spent a few fearful moments over in Salisbury Monday afternoon before that ninth inning was over. Looked as if Carolina was going to take the game after the Wildcats had such an appreciable lead over them, but Davidson finally won, and there were a large number of sad ones, too. It seemed as if the crowd of approximately 2,500 was evenly divided in their cheering.

Pat Crawford’s Gastonia high school baseball team played a game with the Freshman team here last Thursday afternoon and won 11 to 7, in the opening game for the Wildkittens. The Gaston County team scored five runs in the ninth frame. Jenkins, left-hand twirler for the visitors, stuck it out through the entire game, but the Wildkittens used three pitchers. McClure, former Oak Ridge twirler, went in with two out in the ninth to retire the highs.

Up until the fourth inning it was a tight affair, each team scoring two runs in the initial frame, with goose-eggs for the next three. Gastonia again tied the score in the sixth, after the freshmen had jumped into the lead. The Wildkittens tallied once more in the eighth, but the hard-hitting highs forged ahead again in the ninth with five runs.

Schneider and Reep for the visitors were the hard hitters, one of Schneider’s three hits going for a home-run. Reep garnered a double and a single. James, of the Davidson team, hit out for bingles in five attempts. Errors were frequent on the Gastonia lot, with the highs making seven miscues. These gave the ’Kittens several runs.

That the boys can hit that horsehide this year is shown by the batting averages that are seen elsewhere in The Davidsonian. Five of the regular men are touching the average above .300, while three of them are over the .400 mark.

Wick Black, pinch hitter, leads with .500, but he is not one of the regulars. Kelly Woodham is the king of the regular swatters so far, averaging .467. Captain Alford, and Harry Vance are both even with .412, while Flake Laird and Johnson are the batters over .300.

Duke University is next on the schedule—at Greensboro Saturday. The Wildcats won't have a big crowd of Davidson enthusiasts to root for them up there, and it will be somewhat of an uphill grind for them. But we believe they can beat Duke this year. If they could triumph over these diamond performers, then the Wildcats would be edging their way along in the state. Carolina hasn't a chance to come back against Davidson, with only one game scheduled.

Athletic night was a success at Davidson, we believe, and with the inception of this idea, this night will in time become one of the biggest occasions in the Davidson routine of events. It did our heart good to listen to the alumni and the things they said about Davidson. Not only that, but they quoted other people, too, so it wasn’t a one-sided opinion. Harry Vance, winner of the Norris trophy cup, certainly deserved to win it.

Box score and summary:
Gastonia R H PO A
Carson, cf 2 2 2 1
Schneider, 3b 2 3 1 0
Jackson, 2b-ss 1 1 5 3
Shannon, lf-2b 1 1 0 0
Morris, 1b 0 1 4 0
Harbin, 1b 1 0 0 0
Porter, ss 0 0 3 2
Wilson, rf 0 0 0 0
Henderson, rf-lf 3 1 2 1
Harrison, rf 0 0 0 0
Reep, c 2 2 5 4
Jenkins, p 0 0 0 0
Wilson, p 0 0 0 0
Total 11 11 27 11

Davidson R H PO A
Adams, 2b 1 1 0 0
Murray, lf 1 1 0 0
Ratchford, cf 2 1 2 0
Dyer, 1b 1 1 13 0
James, rf 1 4 1 1
Littlejohn, ss 0 2 3 3
Ramsey, c 0 1 0 0
Meadows, p 0 1 0 3
Gant, p 0 1 0 0
McClure, p 0 0 0 0
Total 7 11 27 11

*Batted for Morris in 9th.
**Batted for Ramsey in 9th.

Summary: Two-base hits: Shannon, Reep; home-run: Schneider; sacrifice hits: Carson (2), Wilson, Jenkins, Adams, Ratchford.Meet North Carolina in Contest Next Saturday

University Relay Team Will be in Atlanta for Georgia Tech Meet

On Saturday afternoon, the Davidson trackball team rallied in the ninth inning of their game. There was a lot of glad hearts, and of course, a team will meet the strong aggregation from the University of North Carolina. This will be the first time these two teams have met in a number of years for a dual meet. From the past records of the two teams, indications point toward one of the fastest meets of the season. Carolina comes with the record of decisive wins over strong teams from Washington and Lee and Duke. Their victory over the former team was by the one-sided score of 88 to 38. Davidson likewise opened the season with a win over Wofford and by the same score as that of Carolina over Washington and Lee.

A part of the Carolina squad will not be present Saturday. This part will go to Atlanta to participate in the famous Georgia Tech relays. This meet is the biggest event of the Southern colleges track program and the Carolina team is in line to win in a number of events. For this reason, the usual mile relay will not be on the program for the meet next Saturday. The track on Richardson field will be in fine shape for the meet. During the latter part of March, it was plowed up completely and re-cindered. Recent rains have settled it so that it will be in perfect condition for the meet Saturday.

Coach Tilson has made a number of changes in the arrangement of his men for the races. Chief among these is the change of Alf Brand from the 220 and 440 to the half mile. He has been showing up well in this event. Penn has been doing brilliant running in the two miles and unofficially broke the college record for that event just prior to the holidays. Williford, who formerly ran this race, has been shifted to the mile. Captain Anderson is the chief mainstay. In the meet with Wofford, he scored 16 points, taking three first places and one third. He was high point man for the meet. McPherson is the best runner for North Carolina. He has been making fast time in the dashes and will give Goodykoontz a close race in these events. He may possibly make the trip to Atlanta, but it is not thought probable at the present time. The team is remarkably free from injuries of any sort and will be in fine fettle for the meet.

When David Howard and his roommate, “Goliath” Dillard, returned to Davidson after the holidays, they found their once beautifully decorated room a wide-open space, its usual decorative qualities conspicuous by their absence. A thorough search, under the direction of the Lone Indian, now a famous investigator and detective, was successful in locating the missing articles. A number of students on the fourth floor of Watts are said to be afraid of scandal surrounding the disappearance of these articles.

HOW THEY ARE HITTING

Player AB H Pet.
Black 2 1 .500
Woodham 15 7 .467
All 17 7 .412
Wanco 17 7 .412
Johnson 14 5 .357
Laird 16 5 .313
Davis 4 1 .250
Putale 5 1 .200
Willie 11 2 .182
Bell 6 1 .167
Deing 10 2 .154
Ong 2 0 .000
Kimbrough 4 0 .000
H 2 0 .000
Harrison 2 0 .000
Odenk 1 0 .000
McColgan 1 0 .000
Team 134 39 .291

THE MOST POPULAR STUDENT TOURS TO EUROPE

41 perfectly organized tours to Europe, North Africa, Norway, and Midnight Sun. All expenses afloat and ashore $231 AND EACH TOUR ACCOMPANIED BY A WELL-KNOWN COLLEGE PROFESSOR AND A HOSTESS. Clientele exclusively students, teachers, alumni, and faculty representing 122 schools in the United States. Exceptionally well planned and conceded to be the best. Include college orchestras, swimming pools, special entertainment, etc. For maps, itineraries, and details, contact INTERCOLLEGIATE TRAVEL BUREAU, 1125 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. R. D. KAUFFELT, Representative.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach, and Goldsmith. Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co., CHARLOTTE, N. C.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED “FRED’S” RECREATION HALL BILLIARDS, 205 West Trade Street (upstairs). Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte. MORALLY CONDUCTED.

Dobbs Straws at $5.00. The Tate-Brown Co., 38-40 So. Tryon Street.

Stolen bases: Carson, Schneider, Shannon (2), Morris, Reep, James; double play: Littlejohn to Crawford; base on balls: off Meadows 6, off Gant 2, off Jenkins 3; struck out: by Jenkins 7, by Meadows 3, by Gant 2; hits: off Meadows 8 with 3 runs in 7 innings (none out in seventh), off Gant 6 with 0 runs in 1-3 inning; hit by pitched ball: by Jeating, Adams; passed balls: Reep, Ramsey; left on bases: Gastonia High 6, Davidson Fresh 10; umpires: Alford and McConnell; time: 2:20.

CHARLOTTE, N. C. EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE — THE BEST OF COOKING. Charlotte, N. C.

There wasn't any question as to the final outcome, for unquestionably Harry was the best athlete. If Flake Laird had been eligible, then no one would have known the outcome, for it would be a hot race between these two good men.

The tennis team is starting south soon. Interest has lagged in this sport this year, it seems to us. We don’t know what has been the cause—whether it lacked someone to push this sport, to lead it, and to have a lot of meets. By this time last year, the tennis team had been up against a great deal of opposition.

Manager Lawson, of the freshman nine, says it has been difficult to schedule games for the Wildkitten baseball team. We wonder if that is due to the fact that managers of other teams think the football and basketball teams have set a precedent in playing ability and that consequently a game with the Wildkittens would not be interesting from the viewpoint of a contest. We were wondering, that’s all, but we often wonder about the freshman class this year. They do have good track material, though.

THE CHARLOTTE HOTEL

One of the Foor-Robinson System. Dining Room and Coffee Shop in connection. “A good hotel in a good town.” CHARLOTTE, N. C. 239 W. Trade St.

Wholesale When You Need Candy See Us 26-28 S. College St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.