8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1926

Dr. Gillespie, president of Columbia Theological Seminary, took dinner with Dr. and Mrs. Foreman on the evening of March 8th.

Miss Mae Ellenwood has returned to town. Mrs. Dr. Richards will return home from the hospital this week.

The recent election of members of the Davidson student body to the Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa makes of
interest the news of launching of a nationwide movement to raise a sesquicentennial fund of $1,000,000 for the advancement of
the cause of scholarship, announced by John D. Rockefeller, Jr., in an address at the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary
dinner of Rhode Island Alpha.

Establishment of annual awards for merit in scholarship and teaching and erection of a memorial building at William and Mary
College in honor of the fifty founders of Phi Beta Kappa are to be the uses to which the fund
will be put when collected.

Dr. William H. P. Faunce, president of Brown University, who was also a speaker at the dinner, gave the project
his endorsement declaring that no other organization is so well equipped for forwarding the task of giving scholarship its proper
place in American life.

It is proposed to make the distinguishing feature of the memorial building a duplication of the historic Apollo Room at
Raleigh Tavern in which it is believed Phi Beta Kappa was organized and where its anniversaries were celebrated.

“When the fund is obtained,” said Mr. Rockefeller, “and after providing for the memorial building, and for maintaining the central
organization and adequate headquarters in New York, the income will be devoted to fulfilling the second purpose.

“This purpose is to be effected under the following plan which is designed to be flexible and will be adjusted
from time to time, by vote of the council, to meet changing conditions and to accord with the results of
experience: The society will offer annually a grand prize of $10,000 for distinction in

(a) teaching—open to all college teachers or attainment in scholarship—open to college graduates of not more than ten years’ standing.

“In addition to the grand prize, it will offer a number of grants (no one of which shall exceed $2,000)
to chapters or individuals, in aid of scholarships, teaching, production, or constructive experiment.

(b) Besides these monetary grants and prizes, the society will provide distinctions and awards for scholarship in secondary and preparatory
schools. The Harvard Chapter’s Scholarship Trophy and the Missouri Chapter’s Scholarship Cup are cited as partial illustrations of this plan,
which will be further extended.

In the course of his address Mr. Rockefeller said:

“Recently, in reply to an inquiry, nearly a hundred college presidents expressed their discontent with the condition of scholarship among
their students. The reasons given are various, but the central one is a diminished belief in the validity of scholarship,
a diminished respect for learning.

Since the war our colleges and universities have not only been more crowded than ever, but have been crowded increasingly,
it is said, by students who consider study no obligation.

“A condition of apathy and neglect has affected large parts of our college population. Then, too, together with the unprecedented
increase in the number of students has come an increase in the cost of their education. The regular staff of
teachers, although supplemented, is overworked, faculties have their counterpart in underworked students. Moreover, the teaching force is underpaid, in spite
of the very general increase in teachers’ salaries which has taken place during the last eight years.”

As regards age, Phi Beta Kappa and

Miss Mary Young is ill at her own home. A son was born to Mrs. Floyd Goodrum on February 23rd.

Dr. J. W. McConnell is building a new home and office in the exclusive residential section of Davidson.

Picture Frames Books Pictures
SMITH BOOK STORE
402 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Just Out New Victor Records
“Always”

“Always”—a marvelous title for a marvelous number! For you'll wish to dance forever as you glide smoothly, happily to its
poignant melody and listen dreamily to its low-voiced, brooding local refrain. Let us play it for you. You'll also enjoy
this week's other releases. They're winners.

Always—Waltz With Vocal Refrain. George Olsen and His Music.
Princess Flavia—Medley Waltz. The Troubadours.
Victor Record No. 19955, 10-inch

I Love My Baby—With Ukulele and Jazz Effects by “Uke” Carpenter. Aileen Stanley.
How I Love Her and She Loves Me is Nobody’s Business—With Violin, Cornet and Piano. Gene Austin.
Victor Record No. 19950, 10-inch

Too Many Parties and Too Many Pals—Lewis James.
When the One You Love Loves You—Franklin Baur.
Victor Record No. 19953, 10 inch

PARKER-GARDNER CO. MUSIC DEPT.
New Records every Friday.

Masquerade Costumes FOR RENT
Southern Awning and Decorating Co.
515 E. TRADE ST.
Phone 2817
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ARMY SALVAGE COMPANY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
Army Goods and General Merchandise
NICE LINE YOUNG MEN’S DRESS TROUSERS
ALSO BASEBALL GOODS
ARMY SALVAGE CO.
Statesville, N. C.

Phi Beta Kappa to Aid Scholarship by Creating Million-Dollar Fund

Faithful Employee Dies From Stroke

Andy Falls, colored, who had been a faithful employee for the college, died Sunday morning at 9:00 o'clock. Andy was
55 years old and had been serving the college for the past 20 years. He suffered a stroke of apoplexy
in January and was carried to the hospital in Statesville, where he was at the time of his death. The
funeral took place Tuesday afternoon when he was interred in the Bethesda cemetery. The local order of the colored Masonic
Lodge had charge of the funeral services. Floral offerings were presented by both the college and the student body.

Andy Falls was a faithful servant to Davidson College during his long term of service on the campus. He was
strict to carry out the letter and spirit of every wish of the authorities. He was industrious and saving, and
from his earnings had accumulated considerable property near Davidson. The Falls family will benefit by substantial insurance provided by the
thoughtful husband and father. The college has lost a valuable servant.American independence were born in the As to size, Phi
Beta Kappa comes to its sesqui-centennial anniversary with 107 chapters and over 40,000 members. While Lord Balfour, in acknowledging election
to Phi Beta Kappa, indicated how distinguished he thought it, he said: "This is the greatest honor which could possibly
confer upon us or which we could possibly receive. Moreover, the men of Phi Beta Kappa make an array of
varied talent, ability, and achievement, such as no other society, on this continent at least, can rival. Listen to the
record: 'Of the 50 undergraduates of William and Mary who were members during the first brief period of four years
before the war emptied its halls, two became members of the Continental Congress, two became orators, two judges of the
higher courts of Virginia, one a diplomat, and two, Bushrod Washington and John Marshall, became justices of the Supreme Court;
Marshall, 'the expounder of the Constitution,' becoming chief justice and the greatest who has ever held that post of honor.

"The later members have not fallen below that high standard. They have been great lawyers like Chancellor Kent, Daniel Webster,
Joseph Story, Rufus Choate, and no fewer than 26 have been members of the Supreme Court, of which five were
chief justices. They have been poets, like Longfellow, Emerson, Whittier, Holmes, Lowell, and Bryant; historians, like Bancroft, Motley, Prescott, and
Parkman; scientists like Joseph Henry, Eli Whitney, Samuel F. B. Morse, Louis Agassiz, and Asa Grey; diplomats like John Hay,
Joseph Choate, and Whitelaw Reid. In political life, Phi Beta Kappa men have not only played a distinguished part in
the House, in the Senate, and in the Cabinet, but they have given the country no fewer than 11 presidents—John
Quincy Adams, Martin Van Buren, Franklin Pierce, Rutherford Hayes, James Garfield, Chester Arthur, Grover Cleveland, Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft,
Woodrow Wilson, and Calvin Coolidge.

"Of the secretaries of state since Washington formed his first Cabinet, 15 have been Phi Beta Kappa men; of the
great Americans included in the Hall of Fame, nearly half belonged to the society; and of all those in the
long roll of Who's Who, it has supplied one in five. It has in fact provided leaders, thinkers, poets, orators,
statesmen, and scientists not only out of all proportion to its members, but so astoundingly beyond expectation as to impress
one with a sense of wonder. With a total membership of no more than one in 3,000 of the population,
Phi Beta Kappa has furnished nearly half of the Nation’s famous men and over 100 times its quota of the
leaders of the state, the bar, art, letters, and affairs."

GREENSBORO COLLEGE GLEE CLUB
(Continued from page 1)

Some felt the lack of a bit of popular song to impart more gaiety to the occasion. The only song
of a popular nature was that sung by Miss Mitchell as her last number. Much fun was caused before the
raising of the curtain by the big-hearted ovations tendered several members of the student body who brought their girls to
the concert. All necks were craned as they came in the door and lusty cheers and catcalls were given. The
usual line of Johnnies awaited at the stage door but they were not given an opportunity to linger long with
the young ladies as they hustled back to their college home at an early hour in a big bus chartered
for the trip. The names of the young ladies composing the membership of the club are as follows: Misses Isabelle
Babington, Frances Dailey, Lolita Ellis, Gwendolyn Mitchell, Maude Johnson, Madge Marley, Alice Robbitt, Eloise Bass, Sally Gordon, Virginia Griffin, Evelyn
Morgan, Mildred Shell, Sara Bruton, Margaret Fisher, Thelma Harbin, Frances Taylor, Mary Wrenn, Elizabeth Campbell, Kathleen Dayvault, Olivia Goode, Mary
Hales, Epie Plyler.

SIX FRESHMEN MAKE HONOR ROLL GRADE
(Continued from page 1)

Howard, who made the honor roll with an average of over 98 for both his Freshman and Sophomore years. Along
with Howard are C. G. Davidson and H. B. Arbuckle, who were the three Freshmen of last year who rated
this coveted honor. The members of the three lower classes who made the honor roll and their averages follow:

Juniors: H. M. Austin, 97.28; D. H. Stewart, 96.33; T. L. Short, 95.31; W. A. Christian, 95.15; W. H. Bordeaux,
95.12, and H. G. Goodykoontz, 95.

Sophomores: D. H. Howard, 98.12; C. G. Davidson, 96.69; H. B. Arbuckle, 96.46; J. S. Grey, 95.55; W. B. Bradford,
95.30, and J. P. McKnight, 95.07.

Freshmen: C. J. Albright, 96.09; J. B. Moriarty, 95.95; M. T. Gilmour, 95.80; J. R. Graham, 95.26; R. R. Kane,
95.17, and W. K. Pritchett, 95.09.

NINE HONORARY DEGREES
(Continued from page 1)

Carolina, received the degree of doctor of pedagogy. Doctor of sciences was conferred upon Dr. A. J. Crowell, of Charlotte,
head of the largest clinic in the South and a surgeon of international fame. Dr. E. F. Shewmake addressed the
Booklovers’ Club Friday night at the home of Mrs. J. M. Douglass. The husbands of the members were present.

WILDCATS

Have those old shoes rebuilt. Service is our watchword.
E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP
Representatives STEVE WALL and J. A. LAW

FELLOWS

We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

MAYHEW

Perfect Service. Suits Cleaned, Pressed
"JOBS WELL DONE"
Mayhew Dry Cleaning Co.
Davidson, N. C.
Mooresville, N. C.

Now! when everyone wants a new suit. Shop here---it will pay to buy more than one.

TWO FEATURE GROUPS

$60 SUITS $44.75
Don’t miss this group. Standard makes, latest styles, finest quality.

$50 SUITS $38.75
Another feature group---unusual values. It will pay you to come to Charlotte for this sale.

Men! A Great Easter Sale of Fine Suits BEGINNING AT EFIRD’S TOMORROW
Large variety of styles, including 1926 styles as well as last season’s models.
