THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 14, 1926

CHANGE IN DEGREES TO BE CONSIDERED

The faculty of Davidson College will recommend to the board of trustees of this institution at its midwinter meeting in
February that a change in degrees conferred be made. The college now grants four: two for bachelor of arts, and
two for bachelor of sciences. Feeling that the courses at Davidson under the B. S. degree are in line with
commerce, they will recommend that this one be changed to a bachelor of science degree in commerce. It is believed
that this will be accepted by the trustees, since the instructors of Davidson are better acquainted with the local situation
and will only make this recommendation after considerable deliberation.

SORE MUSCLES

Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.
—Vicks VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Good taste and good health demand sound teeth and sweet breath. The use of Wrigley’s chewing gum after every meal
takes care of this important item of personal hygiene in a delightful, refreshing way — by clearing the teeth of
food particles and by helping the digestion. The result is a sweet breath that shows care for one’s self and
consideration for others—both marks of refinement.

WRIGLEY'S
3 handy packs

ALUMNI NEWS

Prominent Alumnus Holds Many Honors

A clipping from the Tampa (Florida) Tribune tells of the election of John G. Anderson, Class of ’06, to the
vice-presidency of the Tampa Y. M. C. A. The article, which appeared in the paper along with a picture of
the former Davidson student, tells at some length of Anderson’s accomplishments in the business and religious worlds. He is a
member and an officer in the Hyde Park Presbyterian Church of Tampa, a director of the local Y. M. C.
A., a member of the Tampa Yacht and Country Club, the Traffic League, the Tampa library board, the Tampa Urban
League, and a member of the board of trustees of the Triangle College of Florida and the Tampa Opportunity School.
Last January he was selected as head of the county school board, as a result of his deep interest in
educational matters. Better schools are said to be his hobby. He is also secretary-treasurer of the Tampa Coal Company, vice-president
of the Gulf Realty Company, and director of the Florida Nutex Brick and Tile Co.

WILDCATS MEET STATE

(Continued from page 1)

Coach Younger said that the Wolfpack was better than most people thought, that they should have beaten Clemson to a
frazzle and are really two touchdowns better than P. C. Most of Davidson's varsity was sitting on the bench Saturday
when Guilford invaded Wildcat territory. Joe McConnell did not enter the game at all. Dick Grey ran in to dropkick
a field goal, but was yanked immediately. Charlie Ritchie did not figure in the line-up as did several others. The
19 substitutes used by Davidson gave all the men a good rest, and the coaches were not taking any chance
on having any more of them injured.

All during this week the men have been trained to break up passes. This has been a noticeable weakness on
the part of the Wildcats to date. Fear of McDowall has caused the Davidson mentors to put considerable time on
this phase of the gridiron game, as this member of the Wolfpack has the reputation of one of the best
pass-hurlers in the state. If the Wildcats can break up the passes of the Wolfpack this year, as they did
in the 1925 season, then they will have much less worry. The charging line of the Wildcats last year rushed
McDowell most of the time, with the result that only three passes were completed out of 23 attempted last October
31, when State was making a desperate effort to beat the Wildcats. But Davidson does not have the fierce

The latest for you

The Globe Clothing Company
Clothing, Shoes, Shirts and all Haberdashery
Yellow Slickers, $4.50 and $5.00

The CREDENZA $300.00 ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St., Charlotte, N. C.
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY

ALUMNI COMMITTEE SENDS OUT LETTERS TO OLD MEN

Alumni Committee Urge Former Students to Support Loyalty League

The Alumni Committee, composed of Dr. J. C. Rowan, Concord, who is chairman, H. S. Richardson, Greensboro, J. P. Matheson,
Charlotte, W. W. Flowe, Concord, and F. L. Jackson, Davidson, have just sent letters to all Davidson alumni constituting a
drive for the Loyalty League. The following is a copy of the letter.

Concord, N. C., October 14, 1926.

Dear Alumnus:

For several years a rapidly increasing number of Davidson College alumni saw the great need for a full-time Alumni Secretary.
At our last annual alumni banquet it was unanimously decided to employ a full-time alumni secretary. Upon motion a committee
was appointed to proceed with all possible dispatch in securing a suitable person for this position.

After careful investigation the committee employed Mr. Ernest Milton, who has proved in every way his admirable fitness for the
position, and the committee being highly pleased with the work he has done. If we only had sufficient funds, we
could make Mr. Milton a very valuable man in this work, using him in many ways that would be of
great help to the college.

The only means of supporting the office of the Alumni Secretary, including the secretary's salary, is the income from “The
Davidson College Loyalty League.” This method of support was approved without a dissenting voice at our last annual Alumni Banquet.
A yearly contribution of only oneDollar makes one a member of “The Davidson College Loyalty League” and everyone contributing that
small amount will be enrolled as a member.

Flower State Club Has First Meeting

At a meeting held after chapel Monday morning, the Florida Club was organized this year. The following officers were elected:
P. F. Jones, of St. Petersburg, President; G. H. McSwain, of Arcadia; the Yancey twins, of Umatilla, Secretary and Treasurer.
There are about thirty members in the club this year. Last year the club chartered a special Pullman at Davidson
which carried the men to Jacksonville en masse. There the men changed trains and went to different parts of the
state. This car is reserved for Davidson men and no one is allowed to enter without the permission of the
boys. It proved a big success last year and the club hopes to sponsor the same movement this year. Among
the affairs being planned for this year is a feed to be held in the near future. As the club
is as yet a young organization, very few plans have been made besides those mentioned.

MOST STUDENTS ARE MEMBERS OF CHURCH

Twenty of the 640 students at Davidson College are not members of any church, according to an announcement made by
F. W. Hengeveld, registrar. This number is contained in the freshman and sophomore classes, every member of the two upper
groups being connected with some evangelical church. Since it is a Presbyterian institution, that denomination is expected to predominate. Of
the 640 students connected with churches, 502 are Presbyterians, while 118 are of other denominations. Mr. Hengeveld has not prepared
a report showing the distribution of the latter.

HOMECOMING DAY

Say, Mr. Alumni! You haven't forgotten Homecoming Day, when Davidson plays Carolina on Richardson Field, and all your buddies and
classmates will be here to cheer the Wildcats to victory, have you? This will be, by far, the biggest day
in the school year. A big parade by the R. O. T. C. in the morning, ten thousand people here
in the afternoon for the big game—say, you just couldn’t miss that, could you? Remember that every one of us
is looking forward to seeing you on the thirteenth of November. Everybody will be here, from the oldest “grad” to
the youngest “quit.” Don’t let your place be vacant.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

North Carolina, with the largest number of students, has 276 Presbyterians at Davidson, while 226 men of this faith come
from out of state, which distribution will cover approximately 15 commonwealths.

Government agents in Mexico are seeking a secret radio station which has been broadcasting attacks on the Calles administration. The
plant is believed to be near Mexico City.

The Davidson eleven is being accompanied to Raleigh by a large part of the student body, a special train being
chartered for the occasion, with the R. O. T. C. Band being sent by the Athletic Association. Not only has
this day been designated as one of importance by Davidson students, but everything is in excitement at State. Besides the
Wildcat-Wolfpack game, the agricultural students have decided to hold their annual fair today and at the same time invitations have
been extended to the fathers of the boys of that institution that they be the guests of honor on that
occasion. The fair will be featured by the parade through the city of Raleigh and promises to be even better
than in past years. The students at State have worked up striking floats to represent the various departments in the
school of agriculture. The parade will be led by the military band of the college. With the parade in the
morning, the football game in the afternoon, and the midway of the fair open until midnight, the “Dads” as well
as other visitors are expecting to make this a gala day.

ICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE - - N.C.
Friday, Oct. 15
Bobbed Hair
With Marie Prevost
Saturday, Oct. 16
Yellow Back
With Fred Humes
Wednesday, Oct. 20
The Campus Flirt
With Bebe Daniels
Thursday, Oct. 21
Up in Mabel’s Room
With Marie Prevost

WHOLESALE
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
A complete line of Stationery, Toilet Articles, and Kodak Supplies
We are ready to serve you
Drugs, Cigarettes, Cigars
Dunhill & Kaywoodie Pipes
Drinks

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N.C.
