THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1926

We know a girl so dumb that she thinks a colt automatic is a self-starter horse.

Sugar is sugar,
Salt is salt,
If you laugh at this
It’s your own darn fault.

Prof. (in P and H. class)—“When we drink too much coffee we get what is called a ‘coffee heart,’ and
the same thing applies to tobacco and to ‘tobacco heart.’”
Vance—“Well here’s where I begin eating more ‘sweets.’”

Speaking of money, “All work and no play makes Jack.”

We had a goat named Lizzie,
She ate naught but tin cans,
Now she has three kids,
And they're all Ford sedans.
Ex.

Mr. and Mrs. Steinburg carried the family of little Steinburgs to the show one night and occupied the most expensive
seats in the house. During the performance, the youngest member of the family began to cry. The mother succeeded in
calming the child but the usher informed her that if the baby cried again he would have to insist that
they retire to the box office and get his money back. Near the close of the last act, the father
whispered to the mother, “Oi, Sadie, stick the youngster with a pin.”

Our “Drummer Boy Bob,” will now favor us with that newest Eskimo song from the North Pole, “I’m Sitting on
Top of the World.”

Pessimist—“I’ve always had hard luck.”
Optimist—“What’s the matter now?”
Pessimist—“Aw, my daughter that sings has a sore finger and the one that plays has a sore throat.”

PARIS BEAUTY HINT
Eating onions will keep a mustache off a girl’s lip.

Treverton—“Grandpa, the boys in your day weren't as wild as they are now, were they?”
Grandpa—“Wall, I don’t know if they weren't. In them days the soft, downy, parlor sofa didn’t crash into a tree
every time we got serious.”

“That’s enough from you,” said the milkman, as he turned away from the black and white cow.

THE FAMOUS MASQUERADERS PRESENT TWO ONE-ACT PLAYS
The first one is a melodrama fable set in the jungles of Florida, melodramatized by the fragile pen of Ima
Hunter.
Characters—Scene One: (One man and two tigers)
Scene Two: (One man and one tiger)
Scene Three: (One tiger)
Finis

The second is a juvenile tragedy entitled, “Thanks for the ‘Buggy Ride,” taken from the “true-to-life” experience of our own
versatile poet, author, and play-writer, H. M. Austin.
Time—1913.
Place—A dry and dusty road near Wild Ranch, Texas.
Austin—“Whoa! Wanta ride?”
Sweet Little Girl—“Yes.”
Austin—“Get in.”
S.L.-G.—“No.”
Austin—“Whoa! Get out! Get up!”
(Curtain falls as little girl homeward plods her weary way).

Reformer—“I saw a young man trying to kiss your daughter last night.”
Modern Mother—“Well, did he succeed?”
Reformer—“No, he didn’t get away with it.”
M. M.—“Then you’re mistaken, it wasn’t my daughter.”

GOLF TOURNAMENT
White—“What’s your best this evening, Mason?”
Carrol—“I went out to the fifth hole in twenty-four, and came back in twenty-five. What did you make it in?”
White—“I went out in fifty-four and came back in the dark.”

“Tell me Darling,
Tell me Dear,
Where, oh, where
Is that bottle o’ beer?”

Wilson—“I’m crazy about that new Negro Funeral Song.”
McRae—“I don’t believe I’ve heard it.”
Wilson—“Yeah you have—‘Bye-bye Blackbird.’”

The new preacher was spending the day with the Dailey family. After dinner, he and the lady of the house
were sitting on the porch when little Willie came running out of the house with a mouse in his hand.
“Don’t be afraid of it mother,” he said: “We beat it and mashed it and stamped it until”—catching sight of
the preacher—“until the Lord called it home.”

McCutcheon—“Georgia is so poor that they have to fertilize the ditches down there to make the water run.”
Garrison—“That’s nothing. You people in South Carolina have to plant three peas in ahill—one to push, one to pull, and
one to do the coming up.”

Fresh Carson—“What kind of gun is that in front of the armory?”
Ratchford—"That's a mortar.”
Carson—“Oh, and so that’s what they dig trenches with, is it? I thought sure it was a gun.”

Freshman waiter (bringing in corn at dinner)—“Here’s your corn.”
Sophomore (trying to eat it)—“Fresh, do you mean this for a horse?”

Witherspoon—“Did you know Gertrude Ederle has been arrested for cruelty to animals?”
Davis—“No, what did she do?”
Witherspoon—“Kept two calves under water too long.”

A kind-hearted sport from Gastonia
Told his friend, “I've a girl in Lonia,”
Next he saw his friend
With a scratch on his chin,
“Darn you,” said he, “I wish I'd never Knownia.”

The Scotchman who walked sixteen miles to see a baseball game and found himself too tired to climb over the
fence was heard to say, “Well, it must be great to live near the field.”

It was midnight in the cabin
Not a soul could go to sleep.
Grandpa'd been to the Follies show
And grandma had corns on her feet.

STATE GAME TO BE CONTINUED (continued from page 1)
all other state teams from their schedule next year except State College, a member of the Southern Intercollegiate Conference. During
the past week, however, word has come from the University authorities that the Tar Heels expected to play the Wildcats.
A definite agreement has not been entered into as yet. So far the Davidson authorities have been unwilling to state
whether Presbyterian College of South Carolina would appear on the Davidson schedule or not during the coming year.

1926, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N.C.

The stag at eve

THIS fellow missed out on a heavy date tonight by the close margin of one phone call. But don’t waste
pity on him. He has his jimmy-pipe and a tidy red tin of Prince Albert... grand little pals in time
of stress. When that cool, comforting smoke comes curling up the pipe-stem, troubles evanesce with every puff. For P.A. is
The National Joy Smoke in fact as well as phrase. Cool as a money-lender. Sweet as a check from home.
Fragrant as a pine-grove on a damp morning. You'll like Prince Albert better than any other tobacco you ever packed
into a pipe. You’ll like the friendly way it treats your tongue and throat. You'll like the way it helps
you over the rough spots. Buy a tidy red tin today and see!

PRINCE ALBERT—no other tobacco is like it!

P.A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top.
And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.

Wildcat Cafe

How Much Does the Weight of Your Winter Coat Weigh With You?

Lots say weight coats are actually less worn than those of one of our topcoats. On chilly days you'll find
one of our topcoats a great comfort with little weight.

THE BEST PLACE AND GIVE US A TRIAL

The VOGUE
15 E. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

For things electrical necessary to your fraternity home in your efforts to make it more modern.

Stevens Electric Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WHERE QUALITY MEETS

AND NOW IT’S HERE

THE PICTURE YOU’VE WANTED TO SEE

RED GRANGE in ONE MINUTE TO PLAY

Broadway Theatre
TODAY, TOMORROW, SATURDAY, Oct. 28, 29, 30

Please come in and examine our fine line of Stationery.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Mooresville, N.C.
