6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1926

COLLEGE JOURNALISTS (Continued from page 1)

Officers elected last year at Davidson are as follows: E. G. Moore, N. C. State, president; Miss Eleanor Vanneman, N.
C. C. W., second vice-president; Miss Ruth Efird, Salem, secretary; and Miss Dixie Hines, G. C. W., treasurer.

Mrs. E. F. Reid and Mrs. Gwyn, of Lenoir, spent several days last week as the guests of Mrs. T.
W. Lingle.

MAYHEW
Perfect Service. Suits Cleaned, Pressed
“JOBS WELL DONE”
Mayhew Dry Cleaning Co.
Davidson, N. C.
Mooresville, N. C.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see
FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Ga. Town News
The As You Like It Club was entertained by Mrs. W. N. Graham on last Friday evening. Special music was
had, and next year’s program discussed. Mrs. E. J. Erwin entertained the Thelamite Club on Friday afternoon. Miss Ellen Wood
and Mrs. Wood had charge of the program. Friday afternoon was the scene of a very interesting meeting of the
Young Matrons Club at the home of Mrs. L. B. Crayton. The home was beautifully decorated with dogwood and peach
blossoms. Mrs. Hugh Grey, a charter member, was a visitor. Mrs. Dusenberry read a paper on Queen Victoria, and Mrs.
Mebane presented one on Hamid. Miss Martha Hamilton was the charming hostess of a party, given last Saturday afternoon, complimenting
Misses Lucielle Agnew and Jo Edwards, of Gastonia, her house-guests, at her home on Concord Avenue. Mrs. John H. Reid,
of New York City, spent several days last week as the guest of Mrs. C. M. Richards. Dr. Howard Arbuckle
is now in Athens. He is visiting Mr. Charles Rowland. Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Grey, of Bristol, Tenn.-Va., have been
visiting Mrs. W. R. Grey. Mrs. John Elkins has as her guest her brother, Mr. McSweeny, of Lynchburg, N. C.

WILDCATS
Have those old shoes rebuilt. Service is our watchword.
E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP
Representatives STEVE WALL and J. A. LAW

THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER
THE CHARLOTTE OBSERVER’S news is the latest, having four leased wires coming direct into THE OBSERVER office. The news of
the ASSOCIATED PRESS is relayed to other newspapers. Hundreds of correspondents daily gathering news from all parts of the world.
Features of the highest character and more of them, many of which are carried by no other newspaper in the
Carolinas. Complete local, state, national, and world news is furnished daily to readers of THE OBSERVER. THE OBSERVER is a
complete newspaper, and it is now read daily and Sunday by more people in the Carolinas than any other. The
reason is a reliable newspaper, carrying all news that is news while it is news, in addition to many interesting
features, including a whole page of the most important comics daily, and a 4-page colored comic section, in addition to
the Red Magic Puzzle Section on Sunday. Its market section is second to none in the South, and one of
the best sport sections in the South. You don’t have to pay for one year in order to get a
trial subscription. By all means, if you have never read THE OBSERVER, clip the coupon and fill it in for
at least one month’s subscription, which is only 75c, or request samples, which will be sent upon receipt of coupon.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES BY MAIL
all over the Carolinas to the newspaper in the for one year in order to get a By all means,
if you have

Excellent Speakers to Appear at “Y” Vespers
Judge Currie of Charlotte Will be Speaker at Next Sunday Service

An excellent schedule of speakers has been listed for the remainder of the year by the “Y” cabinet. At the
“Y” vespers next Sunday, May 2nd, Judge A. McE. Currie, of Charlotte, will speak. The list also includes A. M.
Hillhouse, general secretary of the Y.M.C.A. at Davidson, Mrs. T. W. Lingle, of Davidson, and Dr. C. C. Raynal, of
Statesville. Judge Currie is already well known to a great many Davidson students who were fortunate enough to hear him
speak in Shearer Hall on athletic night. He is a prominent attorney of Charlotte, and holds the office of city
recorder in that city. A special program has been arranged for the vesper service on May 9th, Mother's Day. Mrs.
T. W. Lingle will address the students at that time. Those who have heard Mrs. Lingle speak before will be
glad of the opportunity to hear her again, and those who have not heard her may be assured that a
treat is in store for them. Her address to the ministerial band two years ago is especially well remembered by
all who heard it. The speaker for May 16th is “Spoofy” Hillhouse, of the class of '24. “Spoofy” has served
as general secretary of the Y.M.C.A. this year and has done a great work here on the campus. Under his
direction the “Y” has put on some excellent programs. During his college life at Davidson “Spoofy” was active in many
campus activities, and was president of the student body during the year 1923-24. He is a Phi Beta Kappa man
and a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity. He was salutatorian of the class of '24. Unfortunately, he
will not return next year, but will be in school at Carolina. The speaker for May 23rd will probably be
Dr. C. C. Raynal, of Statesville.but he has not been definitely secured as yet. The “Y” cabinet has been fortunate
enough to obtain Prof. K. J. Foreman to deliver the annual “Y" Commencement Sermon on May 30th.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA
(Continued from page 1)

“...doing the things he should not do,” said the speaker in discussing the second idea of what education is. “You
must put first things first, placing them in their relative importance.” Dr. Brown declared that all people have duties placed
upon them which they “can not shirk and do not wish to shirk.” “It may be that you owe something
to yourself, to society, to your family, to your Creator, but there are obligations, responsibilities, and duties which are inevitable,”
he said.

He touched upon the present-day problem of the younger generation in this connection, by asserting that one of the outstanding
causes for the present status of young people is the failure of parents to impress upon them the fact that
they have duties in life which are inescapable. “No man liveth unto himself nor dieth unto himself alone,” quoted Dr.
Brown, and he then challenged the new, as well as the old, initiated of Omicron Delta Kappa by stating that
“you’ve had opportunities here on the campus or in life, and, unless you take stock and use your opportunities, you
do not have an education.”

Immediately preceding the public exercises, the private initiation was held in Eumenean hall, and the 90 alumni and students of
the local chapter adjourned after the address to the Maxwell Chambers hotel here, where a banquet was served.

The alumni initiated were W. B. S. Chandler, W. H. Neal, S. T. Henderson, G. S. Crouch, R. H. Lafferty,
G. E. Wilson, A. L. James, J. B. Johnston, L. D. Wharton, Sr., Karl Sherrill, R. H. Crawford, L. B.
Crayton, Paul M. Neisler, C. E. Neisler, Jr., A. A. McLean, R. G. Finley, George M. King, C. W. Angle,
Ralph S. Robinson, F. L. Smyre, E. Leslie Alford, J. F. Hurley, R. T. Gillespie, J. G. Patton, O. J.
Huie, and C. L. Grey.

The students taken into membership were L. B. Huie, F. A. Alford, H. L. Vance, J. M. Garrison, J. F.
Pinkney, L. D. Wharton, Jr., W. H. Branch, W. A. Christian, W. T. Covington, J. H. McConnell, and H. H.
Austin.

Many Deputations Sent During Week

A representative group of Davidson students have made several important deputations during the last week. On last Thursday, Roland Parker,
Boyce Martin, Camp O'Neil, and Robert Kell went to Salisbury to close a “Come Clean” campaign which was being conducted
in the high school there. Each of the men delivered an address before the different classes. The outstanding theme of
all the addresses delivered was Clean Living. Each man dealt with a particular phase of this vital subject, treating it
in such a light that the high school students would be interested and benefited in a personal way. The deputation
to Salisbury was a success in every respect, turning out to be profitable to the Davidson men as well as
the boys and girls of the high school.

On last Sunday, Julian Lake and Clancy Williams went to Lexington, N. C., while Albert Hillhouse, Hayden Hollingsworth, and Bill
Christian, accompanied by a vocal quartet consisting of D. G. Wilson, John Foster, W. O. Green, and Mallory Calhoun, went
to Statesville to bring to a close a meeting conducted by Miss Mamie McIlwee. Calhoun spoke to the Junior girls;
Foster spoke to the young boys, and D. G. Wilson spoke to the older boys. Each of these group meetings
proved very successful. That evening at the church, Hollingsworth and Hillhouse spoke to the congregation of the Presbyterian Church. The
meeting was sponsored by the young people of the church. At this service, the Davidson quartet sang several selections.

Mrs. Archibald Currie had as her guest Friday and Saturday of last week, Mrs. F. R. Brown, of Salisbury.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314, and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5059 Residence, 1937

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.
Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST
Charlotte, N. C.

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
24 South Tryon St. Upstairs
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Telephone 3528

YOUR BARBER SHOP
When in Statesville and you require those finishing touches, drop in and let us do the work.
THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP
Statesville, N. C.

ARTCRAFT THEATRE
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Coming Friday and Saturday, May 7th and 8th
“HAROLD LLOYD”
In his last and greatest comedy, “For Heaven’s Sake”
Admission, 15 and 35 cents
A PARAMOUNT SPECIAL

Visit Our New Fountain
When in Charlotte
Tryon Drug Co.
Agents for Nunnally Whitman Candies

Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

Daily and Sunday ------- 7c 3 Mos. $2.25 6 Mos. $4.50 1 Year $9.00
Daily without Sunday ------ 65c 1.75 3.50 7.00
Sunday Only ------- 40c 1.00 1.75 3.50

CHARLOTTE OBSERVER
Circulation Department, Charlotte, N. Carolina.
Gentlemen: Enclosed find $_______ for ______ months subscription to THE OBSERVER. (Daily and Sunday) (Daily Only)

Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin were guests at the Whitlock-Cobb wedding, which was solemnized last Wednesday in Charlotte.

Send them to Brady at Statesville and they will be printed right.
