THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1926

Noble Attends National Educational Meeting

Representatives STEVE WALL and J. A. LAW Attract Leading Experts on Pedagogy

Dr. C. M. S. Noble has recently returned from Washington, where he has been in attendance at the National Educational Association of the United States, which held its sessions in that city for the week of February 25-30. The Association is composed of a large number of organizations, all having to do with some phase of educational work. Chief among these departments are: department of Superintendents of Education; department of Vocational Education; Deans of Women's Colleges; Administrative Officers. Davidson is not a member of this association, but Dr. Noble attended to broaden his field of knowledge by association with some of the most eminent educators of America, hoping thereby to bring back to his classes a message that will urge them on to higher endeavor among educational pursuits.

The two main departments that he was interested in were the Educational Research Association, and the meeting of the National Society of College Teachers of Education. Some of the speakers there were Dr. Charles H. Judd, of the University of Chicago; Guy M. Whipple, of Danvers, Mass., who spoke on “Measuring Musicians;” Arthur T. Gates, of Columbia University, who spoke on “Theories of Learning Tested by Achievements of Deaf Children.”

While in Washington, Dr. Noble also enjoyed many social activities, chief among them being a Harvard Alumni luncheon at the Raleigh Hotel. Here he met Dr. Frank W. Ballou, superintendent of schools in Washington, and president of the Department of School Superintendents. Dean Holmes, of Harvard School of Education, also made an address. Dr. Holmes is one of Dr. Noble's best friends, having been dean of the School of Education at Harvard when Dr. Noble was there. Another social event of much pleasure to Dr. Noble was the breakfast at the Hamilton Hotel, attended by various superintendents and professors of different colleges and schools in North Carolina. Here Senator Overman was the chief speaker.

Mrs. C. M. Richards has been confined to her bed in a Statesville hospital since her recent operation. It is reported that her condition is much improved. Miss Dorothy Hartsell and Miss Frances Howard of Concord spent the weekend with Miss Virginia Shumaker.

ROBERT FLAHERTY'S TRUE PICTURE-ROMANCE OF LIFE AND LOVE IN THE SOUTH SEAS

See MOANA and let the rest of the world go by. You've seen your first Sunrise; you remember, we hope, your first Love. Your first South Sea isle is coming.

ALHAMBRA CHARLOTTE Jas. H. McKoy, Manager

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank Charlotte, N.C. R. A. DUNN, President I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President T.S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier Capital, Surplus, Etc., over $1,200,000.00

Exchanges

We often wonder how we could write our exchanges if there were no “students at the University of California,” very sensational to fill our columns. Below are three references to the University of the West, taken from exchange columns of college papers.

Freedom at Last!

The principle of equal rights for men has been established at the University of California. Professor Ira B. Cross recently expressed annoyance at the time taken from studies by feminine students powdering their noses and freshening their countenances. He said boys had an equal privilege and rights if they desired them. The next day two men appeared with shaving equipment and when Professor Cross started his lecture, they lathered and shaved. Professor Cross led the applause, saying that if they would make their names known to him—he was unable to recognize them under the lather—he would see that they received a grade of “A” for the term. —From Associated Press Dispatch.

For the first time in sixty-three years, hazing Freshmen at the University of California has been done away with as the result of an edict from President W. W.Campbell.—The Torch, Upperclassmen at the University of California wear corduroy trousers. Their class loyalty is judged by the amount of dirt they are able to accumulate. Sometimes a pair of “cords” is worn for two years without being subjected to the indignity —Bull Dog.

Warren Ogden: was broke. He wired home: “No mon; no fun; your son.” His dad wired back: “Too bad; so sad; your dad.” —Torch. The above clipping was taken from the Torch of Valparaiso University. 

Even “Warren Ogden” seems to be a coincident, but that they should have a general discussion followed. The meeting was concluded with a song and a short prayer.

Meeting of Educational Association rooms at Mrs. Smiths’. The club went immediately into the election of officers for the coming year and the results are as follows: H. M. Austin re-elected president. F. K. Bell, vice-president, replacing W. H. Bordeaux. T. T. Jones, secretary and treasurer replacing J. B. Webb. After the election of officers, the club discussed plans for Spanish Night this year, and decided to secure another set of slides on some subject of interest to the Student Body. Details of this illustrated lecture will be announced later. Further business being dispensed with, the social part of the evening’s program was entered upon. Professor Goldiere played a number of records from his excellent collection of classical music, mainly Spanish and French compositions; among them: La Paloma, La Golondrina, Princesita, Dona Luz de la Luna, and the Toreador’s Song from Carmen. After light refreshments and smokes, the meeting broke up.

C. E. T. C. MEETS
The Christian Endeavor Training Class held its regular meeting last Sunday with Pender McBryde as leader. The meeting began with the regular song service. This was followed by the devotional exercises led by Pender McBryde. The subject for discussion was the duties and functions of a Lookout Committee of a C. E. Society. D. F. Helm and G. R. Graham made short talks on this subject and the meeting was concluded with a song and a short prayer.

SENIORS MAKE HIGH RECORD (Continued from page 1)
A. H. Hollingsworth, of Atlanta, Ga., 98.75; B. U. Ratchford, N. C., 98.16; R. B. Parker, of Farmville, N. C., 98; O. L. Brenner, of Augusta, Ga., 97.83; H. L. Shaw, of Sumter, S. C., 97.66; C. E. Houston, of Monroe, N. C., 97.14; J. Millner, of Reidsville, N. C., 97; W. T. Spencer, of Gastonia, N. C., 95.83; S. W. Brown, of Minden, La., 95.50; J. M. Appleby, of Florence, Ala., 95.45; A. Y. Bowie, of Talladega, Ala., 95.33; J. C. Barrington, of Raleigh, N. C., 95.28; D. M. McComb, of Hickory, N. C., 95.16; and G. M. Eddington, of Franklin, Tenn., 95.

The Davidsonian wants to know: If Plato could shimmy, could Aristotle?

We see that Harlee Branch is chairman of the Junior Speaking committee. That is quite appropriate, both in the chairman and speaking sense.—Watch Tower

In a basketball game between Georgia Tech and N. C. State a short time ago, one of State’s men got his gum stuck in the roof of his mouth, and it cut off the flow from the salivary glands as well as checked his breathing. The game had to be stopped until he could remove the gum from his mouth. We suggest that hereafter he keep his gum greased with 2 in 1 or some other non-viscous substance.

Austin College, Sherman, Texas, has a spelling team composed of ten spellers and two alternates. Inter-collegiate spelling matches create much enthusiasm out in the great open spaces “where men are men and women are governors.”

William and Mary has what is probably the smallest class on record, a class composed of only one member.

“A straight college education leading to an arts degree is not worth ten cents as a business asset,” says the great “Red” Grange in the current issue of “Liberty.” We would like to inquire how in the heck he knows. He hasn’t an education, he hasn't a degree and he doesn’t know anything about business.—Purple and White.

Skit McConnell spent Sunday afternoon and night in Charlotte on a sightseeing trip. He returned Monday and reports that he had a fine time.

Pressing Business! Yes, that's us, but we have plenty of time to do yours and we clean and press ‘em right. Buy a ticket and save the difference. Proprietors Tex Tilson and Monk Mattex Representatives Bohannen---Liggett---Weedhem

IMPERIAL CHARLOTTE, N. C.
MON., TUES., WED.
ELINOR GLYN’S Sensational Story
“The Only Thing”
ELEANOR BOARDMAN
CONRAD NAGEL
IT'S PEPPY!

THURS., FRI., SAT.
“HAVOC”
WITH GEORGE O’BRIEN
MARGARET LIVINGSTON
A Drama of War-Dazed Women. Great!

A WORLD VISION AND A LIFE OF SERVICE IS THE COLUMBIA IDEAL
Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, S. C.

MEN’S SECTION
Smart New Shirts for Young Men
Including Bates Street Shirts with collars attached in all white and many smart color combinations. Splendid choice, best quality
$3.00

New Neckties, latest styles
$1.50

STREET FLOOR