8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1926

Members of Senior Class Hold Smoker

The Senior class had a very enjoyable get-together meeting and smoker at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel Tuesday night at eight
o'clock. Roland Parker, president of the class of '26, was toastmaster. Professor A. Currie gave a very entertaining and instructive
talk. His talk was featured with a number of anecdotes which were greeted with much applause. As a part of
the entertainment, the Glee Club quartet, composed of Bradley, Calhoun, Foster, and Wilson, gave a number of their popular songs,
which they will use on their Southern tour. E. T. Pullen and Liged Smith gave short talks. At appropriate times
during the program, the Glee Club Orchestra, led by “Tootie” Crayton, rendered a number of selections and did much to
enliven the program.

After the talks and music, the class settled down to a more serious discussion of business. Various plans for the
future were made and passed upon. The committee which has been investigating the feasibility of recording “Old Davidson” gave a
very favorable report. The Senior class this year has been the first to ever consider this matter and they seem
to be making arrangements that in time will materialize. During the rendition of the program, the Seniors were served oranges,
apples, peanuts, and cold drinks. Cigars and cigarettes were frequently passed around the tables.

Much of the success of the smoker is due to the plans and work of a committee headed by E.
K. Regen, who was assisted by L. L. Deck and W. E. Milton, Claytor, Eddington, and Ragan. When the business
meeting was closed, the entire class joined with the Glee Club Quartet and the Orchestra in singing “College Ties.” Everyone
present had a most enjoyable evening and the success of the smoker has been acclaimed by all.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314, and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5059 Residence, 19375
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Telephones
12 South Tryon Street
Office 3171 Res. 3419-W
Over Garibaldi & Bruns

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.
Neurocalometer Service

Literary Societies

The regular meeting of the Phi Literary Society was held last Thursday evening. The subject for debate was Resolved: That
the United States should have a single department of defense. Affirmative, W. T. Baker and W. H. Fitts; negative, R.
G. Calhoun and H. A. Knox. The decision was given to the affirmative. A special musical number was given by
N. E. Phifer and H. H. Worzel.

First critic-elect Ratchford announced that during the spring term the plan of debates will be changed. Subjects will be presented
by members two weeks in advance, and two men appointed to give the bare facts of each side. Then the
debate is thrown open, with every member privileged to argue. Credits will be determined by the critic. A final vote
of the house will be taken to determine the issue. The plan will allow more men to have chances to
speak and thus fulfill to a greater degree the main objective of a literary society.

The Pandeinic Literary Society divides the year’s work up into three terms, in the third of which they have open
discussions on questions of national or international interest, with no set programs. The subject for discussion at the regular meeting
last Thursday night was “Should the United States enter the Court of International Justice?” A. H. Hollingsworth, W. E. Hill,
R. D. Kauffelt, J. A. McAlpine, and G. M. Eddington gave interesting talks on the question. This question of whether
or not the United States should enter the Court of International Justice is to be debated later in the year
by the Davidson and W. P. C. teams at Rock Hill. The Davidson team has the affirmative side.

Eumenean Society

The Eumeneans held their regular meeting Thursday evening at 7:30. In the absence of the president, W. A. Christian officiated.
The devotional exercise was led by F. G. Daniels, followed by the reading of the minutes. The first feature on
the program for the evening was the debate, “Resolved, That the United States should form a Department of National Defense.”
Walter Lynch and Paul Gates defended the affirmative, while Yancey Bowie and Robert Miller battled for the negative. After the
debate had been given, the decision committee rendered their verdict in favor of the negative. Tom Barr followed with a
splendid oration, “Business Men and the Spiritual Horizon.” This showed much thought and preparation, which made it one of the
best given this year. The Eumenean Society wishes to extend a cordial invitation to all new men to affiliate themselves
with the society sometime in the near future.

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST
Charlotte, N.C.

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
24 South Tryon St. Upstairs
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Telephone 3528

With the Federal Government agreeing to keep its taxing hand off inheritance estates, the individual Commonwealths will now proceed to
get theirs greased for the operation. Of course, it made little difference for all practical purposes to Congress what becomes
of the anthracite situation. Gas is the only thing it is immediately interested in.

PHONE 24
ANY YELLOW CAB CO.
24 HOUR SERVICE
Charlotte, N. C.

E. K. REGEN

---THE---
MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
Synonymous for excellent board and good service---at just the right price
“Davidsonians” play five nights a week during dinner hour
“Feeds,” “Smokes” and Banquets given special attention
MANAGERS
E. F. BOHANNON
H. L. SHAW, Jr.

Military Summer Camp to Attract Many Boys

Advanced Course Students to Spend Summer Months in Military Centers

Now that Old Man Groundhog has committed an error and approaching Spring is making its proximity felt, the young men
of the country, and especially the college men, are trying to decide where their vacation will be spent. One answer
to this question is the C. M. T. C., or, to be exact, the Civilian Military Training Camp, where the
work is hard, athletic events are plentiful, and where a man has instilled in him those principles of initiative and
leadership that develop him into a real “he-man.” At the C. M. T. C., the trainee becomes a member of
a big team in which each man has to play his individual part. He acquires just as good a coat
of tan as he would at the most popular summer beach resort, his muscles harden as quickly and as well
as they would in a gymnasium, he learns to control himself and others, and his vision is broadened from the
personal contact with young men from other sections of the country. Most attractive of all, his expenses are paid and
he draws additional pay for doing a patriotic duty.

This year the trainees from North Carolina will be sent to Fort Bragg, near Fayetteville, N.C. In other states, men
will be sent to the following training centers nearest their homes: Camp McClellan, Alabama; Fort Barrancas, Florida; Fort Oglethorpe, Ga.
While requests for military training are ordinarily in excess of the number that can be accepted, the military...Authorities have announced
that it can be safely stated that applicants living within a radius of 220 miles of a camp will be
accepted and ordered to camp. Fort Bragg can accommodate 800 trainees, Camp McClellan 1,550, Fort Barrancas 450, and Fort Oglethorpe
700, a total of but 3,500 from this corps area. As priority in making application will necessarily have weight in
the matter of acceptance for training, it is predicted that most applications will be received during the early part of
March. With the exception of Fort Bragg, the period of training will begin July 5th and end August 7th. At
this post, the period is July 2nd-July 31st.

At Davidson, the officers who have been designated to handle the matter of applications are Captain Weems and Captain Elkins
of the Military Department. Either of these officers will be glad to consult with any student who may be interested
in this summer's C.M.T.C. or with any young man living in this vicinity who may care to know about these
summer camps.

HERE AND THERE IN THE “Y” SERVICE

There is one spectacle grander than the sea; it is the sky. There is one spectacle grander than the sky;
it is the inner soul. We have laughing hours in our lives. One of them is when a boy is
going forth from college. We must go down to the boiler room. You don't want the crowd to run your
ship. No crowd on the bridge! Crowds don't run ships. There is only one figure I want on the bridge
of my life, and that figure is Jesus Christ. The greatest purpose is that the ships may sail out to
sea. Every life is a commissioned ship.

“I wish I had been a doctor.”—Tyrus Raymond Cobb.

There's a crowd in the misty flats drifting to and fro; and I don't want to be in that crowd.
In this book, God is feeling after men. The finer things of life go first—don’t fail to recognize the value
of the finer things. If we are going to advance, we must learn to leave some things behind. We must
have stakes in the future. Christianity is not a theory; it is a life.

Exchanges

They call it “Junior Dance” at other schools, but at Davidson it’s plain “Junior Speaking.”

N.C.C.W. has been hard-hit by the mid-year exams. Seventy-one students, fifty-four of whom were freshmen, were forced to leave college
as a result of this terrorizing epidemic.

Spring football has begun at Citadel. Instead of two weeks’ training this year, as has previously been the custom, they
will have four. Those taking part in this early practice will be equally divided at the end of the season
for a match game.

Judging from an editorial in the Tiger, Clemson has been having trouble with her heating system, and especially that part
of the system which determines whether their Saturday night showers shall be cold or hot. One boy cut a class
with the hope of getting ahead of the crowd and receiving some benefit from his promptness, but to his great
consternation, he found the water at its natural temperature.

The faculty of Birmingham-Southern seem to have profited by the recent ruling of the faculty at Davidson in regard to
absences incurred immediately before and after a holiday. They have adopted a new system of regulations among which is that
famous rule that, “All absences immediately before and after a holiday will be counted double.”

They say that there are still a few college boys that are so old-fashioned that they still wear garters. Honestly—don't
mention it, but I’ve heard that there are at least three of these abnormal creatures right here on our own
campus. Well—that proves that college boys are much like baseball players—we always have some hold-outs. It may be, however, that
these freaks of nature have not become well enough accustomed to modern means of living to fully appreciate the true
value of them. There are many advantages in the non-use of garters: first, the time devoted to fastening them could
be utilized for a greater good—such as improving that part of the body which is exposed to public inspection. You
see, garters don't show anyway (applies to boys only) so what’s the use of wearing them—spend the time in manufacturing
or stacombing. Then, a pair of hose that sags can easily hide a hole in the heel of a sock
that could otherwise be seen. These old-fashioned fellows have to take a stitch in time to save embarrassment, but we
moderns just let 'em sag, thus hiding the holes. Yes, I'll agree that the adage says that a stitch in
time is worth two in the bush, but what's the use of taking a stitch in time as no one
knows that one is needed. The sagging of socks covers all holes that fail to be eclipsed by our balloon
trousers.—Orange and Blue.

The football team of Davidson College is now getting ready for the spring term in football. From the account of
all their games in the Davidsonian, we are sure that they have a live wire team—Chatter.

The present Soph class at Meredith College can boast of having turned radical by breaking the age-worn custom of having
their numerals painted on the college tank by Sophomores from N.C. State. Instead, a bunch of their Wake Forest admirers
came over under cover of darkness and artistically placed a gold and black '28 on the tank. The State lads,
feeling somewhat offended, rather than have their “goat gotten,” proceeded to smear a coat of black paint over the entire
work of art. Imagine their surprise upon awakening the next morning to again find conspicuously shining forth, a '28, together
with a W.F.C. and an M., each in its respective color.

A new novel, “A Call to Arms” was, of course, written by a woman.

“Flowers that Grow for Happy Lovers” ---wrote Tennyson. Which is to remind you of the appropriateness of “Saying It to
‘Her’ With Flowers” on St. Valentine Day. See our beauteous array of suggestions for the occasion. Red Carnations, Red Roses.

ART FLOWER SHOP
DAVIS ROBINSON, Prop.
336 N. Tryon Street
Phone 6728
Charlotte, N.C.
Night Phone---County 3321-3260
College Rep. J. J. Ernhardt

We have a new lot of the latest styles in shoes, also an attractive assortment of silk goods and laces
in the most desired colors. Our grocery department is well stocked and ready to give you prompt service. Also full
line of hardware to supply your household needs.

H. M. Goodrum Co.
DAVIDSON, N.C.

FELLOWS! Our new spring styles of clothing are here for your selection. Come in and let us fit you up!
Also snappy line of ties, socks, shoes, etc. Satisfaction guaranteed.

THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.
