THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 7, 1926

PRIZE-WINNING DEFINITIONS FOR THIS WEEK’S CONTEST

First Prize Won by Mr. Gordon McSwain
“To understand the full meaning of this word,” says our musician, “we must trace its etymology. The word ‘saxophone’ comes
from the Sanskrit ‘sust,’ meaning petrified, and ‘phon,’ meaning music; petrified music.”

Second Prize Won by “Little Billie Wilson”
“A saxophone is a brass-covered instrument very successfully used in cat-less homes for staging artificial cat fights.”

Next week's contest will be centered around the word “honeymoon.” College professors are not barred from the contest.

Mr. A—“Who was that lady I seen you with last night?”
Mr. B—“You never seen me last night. You seen my wife in my riding breeches and hat, walking down the
street with our Willie in his new golfing outfit.”

A negro was being tried for cruelty to his wife.
“That is de mos’ no count nigger I ever did see,” said his wife with emphasis.
“Well, either, Jedge, she don’t treat me right. I sold the kitchen stove to get a little money and it
was two weeks ‘foe she missed it.”

Lucky Proprietor
Sign in hotel—“Please run water slowly while bathing your friend the proprietor.”

B. H. Geer (holding up hand in English class)—“Professor, I wish Chaucer had learned to spell before he wrote the
story of Canterbury.”

Vegetarians Both
Calhoun—“My girl is just ‘de-vine!’”
McCutcheon—“And mine is simply ‘de Berries.’”

Our idea of a dumb-bell is one who thinks that a lawyer wears a law suit when he’s at court.

Serious Breakdown
Notice in a South Carolina Weekly—“Deaths, births and weddings will be postponed until next week on account of a breakdown
in the engine that runs the press.”

Help Wanted—Male and Female
Two maids to wash dishes and also errand boy. No experience needed. Apply 304 S. Willow St.

She—“Would you like to hear me play ‘Just Around the Corner?’”
Bobbie Link—“Why haven’t you told me we could leave the room before now?”

Undertaker Service
Mason Carol (to proprietor of cafe)—“Did that waiter I gave my order leave a widow and children?”

Lovers’ Code
First Barber—“That’s a bad cut you gave your last customer.”
Second Barber—“Yeh, you see I’m courting his housemaid and that’s a sign to let her know I can see her
Saturday night.”

Christian—“Don’t you know you are too absent-minded to be a teacher?”
Pinkney—“I ain’t going to be a teacher, I’m going to be a college professor.”

Sympathetic Lady—“Tell me, little one, what is your friend crying for?”
Little Girl—“He’s not crying, Mum.”

English Prof.—“Now, Mr. Webb, can you tell us what a myth is?”
Webb—“Yes, sir, it’s a female moth.”

Golfly Speaking
First Golfer—“How do you address the ball?”
Second Golfer—“Do you mean before I hit it or after I lose it?”

Quite Conceited
Mr. and Mrs. Berry, owners of the Royal theatre, were hailed by the new usher as they entered and asked
for their tickets. Thinking that their name would be sufficient to admit them, Mr. Berry replied, “We don’t have to
have a ticket to get in this show, we are the Berrys.” The usher raised his hand in gesticulation and
replied, “It makes no difference if you are ‘The Cat’s Whiskers’ you don’t get in here without a ticket.”

Correct
Queens—“What are the songs of love?”
Davidson—“The Melody of Love, Rock-a-bye Baby, and the Funeral March.”

A chink by the name of Lu Ling,
Fell off a street car, bing, bing,
The conductor turned his head
The car's lost a washer—ding, ding.”

Jew’im Down
THROUGH sheer quality, through a never before known smoking enjoyment, Camels won the world to cigarettes. Camel was the first
and only cigarette that combined all the goodnesses of the choicest Turkish...and Domestic tobaccos, and Camel became the greatest smoke
of all ages. No tobacco name compares with Camel. Camel won and holds its overwhelming preference through indomitable tobacco quality.
Only the choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos are rolled into Camels. These fine tobaccos receive the skillful blending that only
the world’s largest tobacco organization could give. Nothing is too good or too expensive that will make Camels, regardless of
price, the utmost in cigarettes. If you have never yet tried Camels, a new sensation in smoking pleasure awaits you.
The sensation of the choicest, the most perfectly blended tobaccos that money can buy. Have a Camel!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

© 1926

Rebecca—“The man has saf’d you from drowning. Gif him a dollar, Ikey.”
Ikey—“Oi, but I was only haf’ drown-led.”
Rebecca—“Vell; den, gif him de haf’ dollar.”

Three-year-old (viewing gray-bearded man in rolling chair)—“Boo-hoo, I want lots of whiskers like that baby.”
First Old Man—“I had a beard like yours and when I saw how ugly it was I shaved it off.”
Second Old Man—“Well, I had a face like yours and when I saw how ugly it was I grew this
beard.”

My girl says that she isn’t what you’d call fast. She just lets her “friends” kiss her and she hasn’t
an “enemy” in the world.

Wildcat Cafe
THE BEST FOOD
GIVE US A TRIAL
15 E. Trade St.

SELZ SHOES FOR COLLEGE
You may think you have to spend a lot of money for your shoes if they are smart looking and
long-wearing. That’s not true here. We have models in favor with university men—and at prices comfortable to pay. They are
designed by SELZ. Many interesting models $6 and $8.50.
The VOGUE
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

New York Cafe
Home Cooking
On Your Way Home
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

One freshman wants to know why automobiles run better in the daytime than at night. He says that every time
he goes riding at night the roadsides are always lined with cars that have stalled.

What Shall It Be?
We are prepared to serve you with the very choicest meats.
VEAL
Mail orders solicited

Two negroes were describing their wives’ complexion.
“Sambo,” says one, “I got a wife so dark that every time her mouth waters it drips ink.”
“That’s nothing, Rastus,” says the other, “I got a wife so black that every time she sneezes the room gets
full of soot.”

MAYHE’S MARKET
We buy BEEF—PORK at the highest market prices

Davidson Friday morning on depot

She—“Would you like to hear me play ‘Just Around the Corner?’”
He—“No, I want to play with you, ‘Just Around the Corner.’”

“Oh ho,” triumphantly cried the little girl upon seeing a chicken with a very thin coat of feathers, “I know
where you came from. You were hatched from one of those china nest eggs.”

Brown’s Restaurant
THE BEST PLACE TO EAT
17 S. Tryon St.

Calla Taxi

Foster—“Are you going to the dance in a tuxedo?”
Link—“No, I think I'll ride the streetcar.”

For Your Shines and to Have Those Hats Cleaned and Those Suits Pressed, Visit
Central Shoe Shine and Hat Cleaning Parlor
8 East Trade St.
Charlotte, N.C.
