2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1926

Last Three Track Leaders Hold Jinx

For the past three years, the captains of the Wildcat track team have had hard luck. Two of them have
sprained their ankles, and one had sleeping sickness. All three of these men gave promise in their Junior years of
being record-breakers when the following years rolled around, but Fate seemed to smile cynically and say no.

In the spring of 1924, “Lowpocket” Streibeck started off the season with high hopes of leading his team to many
victories, but this hope was soon smashed because of a sprained ankle. When the doctor saw it, he said he
must keep off of it for the rest of the year, and his hopes vanished.

The following year, “Bo Peep” Gracey labored under a difficulty, that of sleeping sickness. Many are the managers who have
had to hurry to Bo Peep’s room and wake him up, telling him that the hurdles were next and he
would have to hurry to get there in time to start. But he bore his burden well and showed himself
to be a born track star.

This past year, “Red” Anderson also had hard luck. Beginning the season with a knee which gave him a lot
of trouble, he ended it with a bad knee and a sprained ankle. In the Clemson meet, when he was
pole vaulting and his knee was giving him trouble, he fell on his ankle in such a way as to
tear the ligaments loose and thus keep himself out of the State meet, which is the high spot in any
track man’s life.

PLAYING THE GAME
By Caldwell Withers

Class Series Begins as Sophs Conquer Juniors in Interesting Contest.

Although the baseball season closed last Saturday with a defeat at the hands of Duke, the Davidson Wildcats finished one
of the most successful years of the sandlot pastime since Coach Younger came to the hill. The team was better
than last year’s in every department of the game.

Mauldin Pitches Good Game as McColgan, Grey, and Harrison Hit Romero Hard

The first game of class baseball resulted in a total rout of the Junior nine at the hands of the
Sophs. The score was Sophs 16, Juniors 5. Erratic play and inconsistent hitting caused the Wildcats to lose to the
Blue Devils 8 to 5. This defeat blasted the hopes of Davidson supporters for a championship team. Wake Forest probably
has the best record of any state team so far, but the Demon Deacons have several other games to play.
Davidson did not meet the Baptists this year.

Clyde Long broke into the limelight in the Duke game by knocking a home run in the fifth inning. Long
finished the season with a batting average of .412, a higher percentage than any other member of the squad. He
did not play as a regular until the last few games.

STORE PROFIT FUND
(Continued from page 1)

The store amount to a rather large sum of money during the year, having come up to almost a thousand
dollars last year after all assessments had been paid. At this rate, it would take only a few years for
enough to accumulate to pay for the swimming pool. It might be noted in connection with this that Davidson had
a lake given over to swimming a number of years ago. The lake was located near the fourth hole of
the present golf course. It was drained about 1910 in order that sewers might be run into the valley which
it occupied.

The new managers of the store are working hard to make it bigger and better during the coming year. A
complete line of athletic goods will be installed. The inside of the store will be enameled before school next fall.
A mail order service beyond that carried on this year will also be installed.

Jim Pinkney—“What I say goes around here.”

The Junior team showed their great need of a pitcher, the Sophs hitting everything that Vaughn offered to all corners
of the field. Bad support on the part of the outfield, coupled with a home run by McColgan and hits
by Harrison, Grey, and others, gave the Sophs an early lead that steadily increased as the game went on. Jug
Mauldin, twirling for the Sophs, had a nice day. He was hit heavily but managed to keep the hits well
scattered and fanned men several times when there were others on the bases.

There were no spectacular plays made except for a one-hand catch of a line drive by Allen at third for
the Juniors and a pretty stop and quick throw by Dick Grey of Hudgin’s hot grounder down the hot corner.
The game was cut short to seven innings by agreement.

The game scheduled between the Seniors and the Freshmen for Friday was postponed until this week, the Junior-Soph game being
the only one played so far. With the elimination of the Juniors by the Sophs, the fight for the championship
remains between the Seniors, Sophs, and the Freshmen. The Seniors should find very little difficulty in defeating the Freshmen, and
the play-off game between the Seniors and the Sophs should prove a real contest. Both classes have good teams and
neither were badly affected by the new rule of making ineligible any man who has played three innings of varsity
ball.

Harry is the real batting star of the Wildcats. Playing in every game of the year, Vance went to bat
65 times, gathering a total of 26 hits, quite a number of which were for extra bases, to bring his
percentage to .400.

Prof—“Is this word genitive or dative?”
Freshman—“Genitive, sir.”
Prof—“How do you know?”

Summary of Games Shows Davidson Made Good as Baseball Season Closed

Wildcats Win and Lose Eight Contests—Vance, Alford, Woodham, and Laird Play Well

The first practice of the 1926 season was called February 15th, with 18 men answering, other candidates being out for
basketball and spring football. The number was soon swelled to about 35. Seven letter men reported together with promising material
from last year’s Fresh team, and a successful season loomed ahead.

In the first game, an exhibition one, Davidson lost to the Quantico Marines on March 18th by a score of
7-4. The game was featured by Captain Alford opening the season with a homer, followed by Laird, both veterans. Clean
hits were numerous. Wildcat stock took considerable rise after this game as the Marines had an exceptionally strong team. Oak
Ridge Institute was defeated in the next game, 19-13. The Wildcats forced three pitchers out.Four home runs were made, Alford
getting two, and Laird and Woodham one each. The game was featured by the terrific slugging of both contestants. A
game with Dartmouth University was rained out. On April 2nd, Lenoir-Rhyne College was defeated 6-5 in one of the best
games of the season. The visitors’ pitcher, Moose, one of the best in the state, held Davidson scoreless till the
eighth inning, when Davidson went on a batting spree, netting six runs. Both teams played good defensive games—only two errors
chalked up against each nine.

It was Easter Monday that the Wildcats took their old foe, University of North Carolina, in check, defeating them in
Salisbury by a 9-8 score. It was a thrilling game, Davidson playing a splendid brand of ball until the ninth,
when the Tar Heels made a desperate rally, but fell short one run.

On April 8th the Salisbury League team defeated Davidson in an exhibition game by a 14-9 score. The game was
featured only by the heavy hitting of both sides.

Speight Adams—“Then come out here. It's dative then; I don’t want to start on the campus and say ‘Ford.’”

Saturday from a three-day trip, playing in Greensboro, April 10th, Duke University ball club tracked the bases for 13 runs,
Davidson getting only 2. Many errors were made, the team putting out the poorest exhibition of ball displayed during the
season.

On their home grounds April 16th the Wildcats defeated N. C. State 10-8 in the first of two successive games.
The next day in Gastonia the Wildcat batsmen snowed State under to the tune of 11-2. The all-round playing of
the team was excellent. Laird’s great pitching was a feature.

In the first game of a South Carolina trip, Davidson lost to Furman University in Greenville on April 21st by
a 10-3 score. Davidson fought hard, but Furman seemed to get the breaks, which gave them the victory. The second
game was lost on the following day to Clemson College, who blanked the ’Cats with 10 hits for 9 runs.

Starting into Virginia, the team met Guilford College in Winston-Salem, which defeated them 11-2. This was a slow game with
Davidson sadly off form. Rabbs’ pitching for Guilford was excellent. The first Virginia team encountered was Virginia Military Institute, which
Davidson defeated 7-5 on April 28th. Laird pitched a good game. The Cadets led until the first of the eighth.
Playing their second in Lexington, Va., the Wildcats lost to Washington and Lee University the next day by an 11-2
score. The ’Cats scored two runs in the first frame, but from then on were helpless before Maben’s twisters. V.
M. I., whom Davidson defeated, holds victories over Washington and Lee, and has the distinction of being the best aggregation
in Virginia. Davidson swamped Roanoke College there 10-1 the following day. Roanoke was unable to advance a runner beyond second
until the final inning, being checked by the outstanding pitching of Laird, who held the Maroons to five scattered hits.

On May 5th Elon College was downed here by a 12-11 score. An extra inning was necessary to decide the
winner, and Vance, first batter, slammed out a four-bagger to carry Davidson nearer the state championship. But on May 8th,
in Gastonia, Davidson went down in defeat to Duke, in their second game, 8-5, and thereby losing all chance of
an expected championship. Loose fielding was noticeable. This last game of the season was the last college game for Captain
Alford, Vance, Laird, Huie, and F. Kugler.

Looking back upon the past season, it can be seen that it has been a very successful one, but erratic,
the team having broken even in number of games won and lost. The 1926 varsity was a great improvement over
teams of former years. Coach Younger seemed to have developed several promising players, and prospects for next year with a
successful team seem to be bright.

The following are the games played and the scores: (Continued on page 5)

“When days grow hot
As like as not
We wonder what
The Hottentot
Takes off to make him cooler.”

Unlike our sun-scorched brethren, you put on clothes to keep you cool.

Smart New Accessories for College Men

With wide sailor brims, assorted fancy bands, all weaves and styles.
STRAW HATS, $3.50

Famous for their beauty and wearing qualities.
BATES STREET SHIRTS, $3.00

All white, collar attached styles.
NEW NECKTIES, $1.50

Included are all the smartest new designs and colors, wide silk ties, splendid values.
LINEN KNICKERS, $4.50

Correctly fashioned, in white material or plaids, all pure Linen, preferred by all college men.
MEN’S SECTION STREET FLOOR

In the first game of the class baseball series, the Sophs smothered the Juniors in a batting bee 16 to
5. Maulding pitched good ball for the winners, while McColgan starred at the bat, getting a home run and two
other bingles. The Seniors and Fresh played Tuesday, the winner of this game meeting the second-year men for the championship.

We think that Litch Huie deserves mention in this column. Litch played scrub ball for three years, only to make
the varsity basketball and baseball teams in his Senior year. And he held down one of the forward positions on
the quintet in creditable fashion and pitched good ball, too. Praise to Huie.

Just about now the various sport writers of the leading dailies of the state will pick their all-state college baseball
nines. It would be mighty hard to pick a team of the college stars of North Carolina and leave Vance
and Woodham, of Davidson, off the aggregation. Also Captain Alford and Laird would give many aspirants a fight for utility
honors.

BATTING AVERAGES
Player AB Hits Ave.
Long 17 7 .412
Vance 65 26 .400
Reid 58 19 .327
Johnson 59 19 .322
Black 10 3 .300
Alford 64 19 .297
Woodham 67 19 .284
J. Kugler 42 10 .238
Glenn 40 9 .225
Dulin 52 9 .173
Davis 22 3 .136
F. Kugler 28 3 .108
Huie 13 0 .000
Oden 5 0 .000

So, when the mercury starts rolling up and the perspiration starts rolling down, we advise one of these lightweight suits,
Linen, Palm Beach, Tropical Worsteds and such like, tailored to the acme of perfection---that means style, fit and good looks.

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
MORALLY CONDUCTED
“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)
Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte

THE CHARLOTTE HOTEL
One of the Foor-Robinson System
Dining Room and Coffee Shop in connection.
“A good hotel in a good town”
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
239 W. Trade St.
