in Editorial Comment of Raleigh Paper

The following article covered the entire editorial page of the Raleigh News and Observer last Sunday morning. This paper, the largest in North Carolina, is edited by Josephus Daniels, Secretary of the Navy in the administration of Woodrow Wilson. Mr. Daniels is noted for his searching inquiry into the problems of the day, and although it is not certain that he is the author of the following comment, its thoroughness suggests a possibility of that:

THE WRONG DIRECTION

Nothing is easier than to turn some democratic handsprings over the efforts of college upperclassmen to regulate the conduct of freshmen. Condemnation comes much more readily than realization of the fact that conditions in our colleges in regard to the freshman are much more satisfactory than they were a few years ago.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4, 1926

The regular semi-annual meeting of trustees of Davidson College will be held on Wednesday, February 17th. This meeting will be preceded by a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Board in Charlotte the day before.

A number of important questions will be brought up for discussion. The nature of these cannot be divulged at the present time but it is intimated that they will have an important bearing on student life here.

A large majority of the Board of Trustees are Davidson alumni and their action toward the college will depend on the reception they receive here. The Board is composed of approximately the same number of alumni as members of the faculty but they deal with matters which have to do with the college at large.

WRITING A NEW STORY

The Davidson College Jazz Orchestra and the leading quartet of the club broadcasted a highly interesting program over radio station WBT from Charlotte last Tuesday evening. This is the third time that Davidson musicians have entertained radio fans, as, on the Southern tour last year, they were engaged to present selected numbers from WSB in Atlanta. Just before the Christmas holidays, the local songsters were invited to broadcast from the Charlotte station.

Ten men constituted the orchestra when it gave its performance, while D. G. Wilson, M. M. Lockhart, D. M. Calhoun, and J. S. Foster comprised the quartet. Several of the students were enthusiastic about the performance.

Many of our readers, particularly faculty ones, were disappointed last year because our accounts of chapel talks, lectures, and other entertainments were not enthusiastic enough in praise. We heard our home glee club-story characterized as our best “write-up” of the year. Incidentally, the account was written before the concert took place. The reporter therefore had nothing definite to say, so he was permitted to eulogize.

It has been a definite policy of the Lawrentian to be rather objective in its accounts of speeches. No “interesting” or

There was a time and that, too, within the memory of relatively young alumni of colleges in North Carolina when hazing was a vicious practice, sometimes resulting in physical injuries and at least once in North Carolina in the death of a freshman so hazed. It isn’t fair to say that even the hazing that resulted in injuries to the freshman had its beginning in brutal or criminal instincts. Much more reasonable is the theory that hazing was the result of an unconscious striving on the part of the student consciousness toward self-government. Certainly, where student government is recognized and established on a sound, intelligent basis the irresponsible hazing of freshmen is notably absent. And yet student government in a great many of our institutions has far to go. A mixture of student government and faculty espionage is probably worse than no regulation. Student government that has not a democratic basis, that does not lift itself above child's play, that does not merit and obtain respect for its functions and obedience to its decrees is not wise government.

On this sort of basis we should approach the situation at N. C. State College where an edict of the “Court of Customs” against freshmen who did not attend a student “pep meeting” recently, has come within the spotlight.

In the first place, it might as well be recognized that there is a college patriotism, referred to in college as “college spirit” or some like term, cherished and cultivated on the part of enthusiastic collegians. It is this “college spirit,” this esprit de corps, to which the college boys look for a solid front against opposing institutions in intercollegiate contests. Those who never attended college or who have been out a number of years, who never knew or have forgotten the youthful zest of these “pep meetings,” are apt to underestimate their importance. Yet, confining ourselves to the college and to the college boy's viewpoint, these meetings are vital. Attendance upon them almost indicates patriotism or lack of it. There is a feeling that a freshman, above all others, ought to devote himself to the acquisition of a sound, virile college spirit as well as academic virtues. He ought to be, whether a good student or not, certainly a good citizen of the college community, and a good citizen ought to show an interest in college activities. To try to cram college spirit down his throat—that’s another matter.

Now, as it happened at State College, the Court of Customs posted this edict which is self-explanatory:

All freshmen who did not attend the student body meeting held in Pullen Hall Tuesday, January 19, 1926, will be subject to the following rules, effective Monday, February 1, at 7 a.m., and expiring Thursday, February 4, at 7:00 p.m. Freshmen who have handed excuses to the court and had them passed will be excused. These names are posted in front of the dining hall.

1. All freshmen shall wear a white ribbon tied on the upper part of the left arm. Ribbon to be one inch wide and two feet long.
2. All freshmen shall walk in gutters andCut all corners square military fashion.
3. No one wearing the ribbon will be allowed to speak to any person except while indoors.
4. Ribbons will not be worn with military uniform, but uniform will be worn only during the forenoon of Tuesday, February 2, and Thursday, February 4.

Anyone proved guilty of violating these rules will be subject to the action of the Court of Customs.

It is “instructive” or interesting and instructive” addresses are ever given at Lawrence—if the copy editor can help it. Even adjectives as “brilliant,” “impressive” and “profound” grow wearisome with continued use, such as “clever.” Aspiring undergraduate journalists, unless forbidden to do so, will cover their lack of something definite to say, with a flow of delighted appreciation of the lecturer's or artist's powers. Foreseeing this, the policy of the Lawrentian has been to favor matter-of-factness and to spare its readers adjective-flooded columns as far as possible. We have, however, continually urged our reporters: “If you liked the speech, if it inspired you, thrilled you, let your readers know it. Not by putting in a string of adjectives, but by reporting the talk so completely, forcefully, and sympathetically that your readers will think, ‘What a good speech that must have been.’”

That method of reporting is the one we have urged upon our staff. They have not always succeeded in it—the task is very difficult for young writers. They have often succeeded in being only cold and stiff. But the Lawrentian has preferred that as the lesser of the two evils. If in the future, we do experiment with a spasm of critical reporting, our readers must remember that unfavorable criticism is also legitimate. Reporters are not under obligation to be delighted with every function they report. And if the restriction of objectiveness is removed, the writer has a logical right to express dissatisfaction as well as satisfaction with the event he reports. If, however, we can be guided by protests expressed last year against certain signed critical stories, we conclude that our readers will not be delighted to have us print the reporter’s personal reaction to every entertainment he covers.—Editorial from The Lawrentian, Lawrence College, (Wis.)

Mrs. A. W. Crawford, of Greensboro, was the guest this week of Mr. and Mrs. M. W. McGill.

It might be said that in most cases the freshmen who comply with the decree will not be greatly humiliated. Even so, here is fundamental error in student government, basic error in any sort of government, and whether the system is recognized or not it ought to be rooted out. It can be done by the students themselves or by the students with sympathetic faculty help. In the first place, this effort at student government is at fault because it recognizes special privileges. Under the rules of this Court of Customs, we are told, freshmen are “required,” sophomores are “expected,” juniors “requested” and seniors “invited” to attend mass meetings. Under this sort of system, the very first lesson in government the student learns is that laws do not apply to all alike, and that patriotism is for those who cannot help themselves. In the second place, it is at fault because good citizenship, in college as well as outside of college, does not have its origin in compulsion. Whether or not a student attends a student function may reasonably be left to the discretion or the convenience of the individual student. Discipline is a good thing, but discipline should be reasonable. No stigma should be attached to a man in college or out of it because he exercises his right to freedom of action. These two defects ought to be sufficient to cause the State College students to overhaul their regulation, revamp their government until it prepares them for the sort of self-government they will find outside college walls instead of erecting conceptions which must be rudely and, sometimes, disastrously shattered. Perhaps there is nothing particularly harmful about this edict. The punishment meted out for failure to attend a college function, in itself, is not “cruel and unusual.” It is the worst thing about this example of student government is that it is headed in the wrong direction.

Fortunate enough to tune in on WBT during the program and enjoyed hearing their fellow-students very much.

NONE TOO SMALL

South Carolina, listen to this: A negro in that state was recently lodged in a city jail on a minor charge. For three days he maintained that he is 249 years old, was a personal friend of Christopher Columbus, has 345 grandchildren, knew all the Presidents of the U.S. intimately, and for thirty-seven years shot deer on the spot where the State University stands. He was being held until an investigation could be made, and later stated that he was “only fooling.”

Speaking of this:

DUNN, President
JOHNSTON, Vice-President
R. A. D. W. A. T. SUMMEBY, Vice-President

Nowadays if a man reaches for his hip-pocket you know that you are either going to get shot or get treated.

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE

I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

After the dance ... a pipe and P.A.

WHEN you've kicked off the pumps and tossed the collar on the table, while the music is still singing in your brain and memories of one dancing deb in particular crowd your thoughts, fill your pipe with Prince Albert and light up. Make it a night of nights. P. A. is so genuinely friendly. It hits your smoke-spot in deep center right off the bat. Doesn’t bite your tongue or parch your throat, because the Prince Albert process said “nix on the rough stuff” at the very beginning. Just cool contentment in every perfect puff. Don’t put off till tomorrow what you can smoke today. Get a tidy red tin of P. A. now. Snap back the hinged lid and release that wonderful fragrance. Tamp a load into the bowl of your jimmy-pipe and light up. Now you’ve got it... that taste. Say—isn’t that the goods now?

PRINCE ALBERT—no other tobacco is like it!

©1936, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.

P.A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.