THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1927

Football Team of Twenty Years Ago in Many Victories Over Powerful Rivals

The team in the above cut has not been positively identified but it is pretty certain that it was the
team of 1906. W. M. Fetzer, ’06, was captain of the team. Soon after his graduation, he taught at Fishburn
Military Institute and since then he has been coach of Davidson, at N. C. State, and at the University of
North Carolina. He has recently resigned his position at the University. J. L. Gibson, ’06, is now doing secret service
work at Washington, D. C. His address is 1823, 22nd St. N. W. G. H. Croom, '07, was an officer
in the United States Medical Corps in France. He is now a physician at Wilmington, N.C. A. P. Hassell, '06,
is a missionary in Takamatsu and Tokushima, Japan. I. G. McKeithan, '06, is a farmer near Aberdeen, N. C. B.
R. Lacy, Jr., '06, taught at Decatur, Ga., for a while after his graduation. He was a Rhodes scholar at
Oxford University. Since that time he has been pastor at Raleigh, N. C., has attended the Union Theological Seminary and
has served with the army in France. He is now pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church at Atlanta, Ga. Oren
Moore, ‘08, got his M.D. at the North Carolina Medical School. He is now a surgeon in Charlotte, N.C. R.
Whitaker, ‘06, is in business at Raleigh, N. C. C. M. Lentz, '06, is a physician at Albemarle, N. C.
C. S. Stockard is in the furniture business at Memphis, Tenn.

DAVIDSON QUINT RETURNS
(Continued from page 1)

Several minutes before Newcomb, Tar Heel center, caged the ball on a pot shot to start the scoring. After that
it was just a question of how many points the Southern champions could count in the time allotted them. Newcomb,
Hackney, Cobb and Dodderer all contributed their share of the fireworks in that first half that ended with the Carolina
five leading 20 to 5. The last half started off tamely like the first, but big Artie Newcomb began cutting
loose shots from all angles and caging the biggest majority of them.

CHAMPION Electric Shoe Fixery
YOUR SHOES FIXED BETTER
Between White Drug Company and post office
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Line-up and summary:
Carolina (53) Pos. Davidson (18)
Dodderer (8) ------- Laird (3)
Cobb (10) --------- Huie (6)
Newcombe (19) --- Center --- Wilson
Barber (2) --------- Anderson (9)
Hackney (11) ------ Simpson

Substitutions: Carolina, Morris for Barber, Barber for Morris, Nieman for Barber, Vanstory (2) for Nieman, Sides (2) for Vanstory, Vanstory
for Cobb. Davidson, Harrison for Simpson, Hudgins for Harrison. Referee: Parker (N.C. State). Timer: Dr. Lawson (U. N. C.)

Raleigh, Feb. 20.—North Carolina State defeated Davidson, 35 to 19, here Saturday night in the last home game of the
season for the Red Terrors. After the first few minutes of play, when the Wildcats took the lead by a
count of five to two, the Terrors began to terrify, the outcome was never in doubt, and Tebell’s smooth working
quint gradually piled up a sufficient lead to enable the Tech mentor to replace his regulars with substitutes. Captain Fletcher
Dickins, State’s brilliant forward and the only senior on the squad, played his last game before the home folks, ran
wild against the Presbyterians. He found the basket for nine field goals, and his 18 point total was only one
less than the entire Davidson team scored. McDowall, in addition to playing a great defensive game, checked in nine points
for the next highest Tech score. For Davidson, the work of Captain Laird and Anderson featured. The visitors uncovered a
smooth passing game down the court, but ran into a formidable Tech defense under the basket.

Line-up:
N. C. State (35) Pos. Davidson (19)
Dickens (18) ------- Laird (4)
Gresham -----------ees Huie (2) Brown (6) ---------- Gee Wilson McDowall (9) ----- LG --- Anderson (8) Watkins (2) ------- RGES
ss Simpson (3)

State substitutions: Bremer for Dickins, Williams for Gresham, Spence for Brown, Davis for McDowall, Watters for Watkins. Davidson substitutions: Harrison
(2) for Simpson, Goodykoontz for Huie.

Referee: Mr. Stuart (Guilford). Periods, 20 minutes each.

Duke University celebrated the Cherry Tree Lad’s birthday here Monday night by defeating Davidson College in a hotly contested basketball
game, an extra five minutes of play being required to decide the winner. The final score stood 32 to 30
after one of the most evenly matched contests here. While not a great game, it was certainly a spectacular one,
and was highly satisfactory to Duke. Ed Bullock was Duke's shining light, garnering a total of 14 points, ably assisted
at times by Bennett and Kelly. Simpson and Anderson led the Wildcat attack, garnering eight and seven points respectively.

In the second period, the Blue Devils came from behind a slight lead and apparently had the game sewed up,
but Davidson rallied and tied the score, time being called with the score 28-28. Hartness, Duke forward, found the basket
to put his team in the lead, only to have the score tied when Anderson made a long shot. Bennett
turned in the winning goal as the whistle blew.

Davidson (30) Duke (32) Position. 4; Simpson, 2 out of 2. Score at end of regular period, 28 to 28,
extra time, 5 minutes. Referee: MacDonald (Carolina). Timekeeper: Card (Duke).

Alumni Notes

Mr. John E. Crosland, ’19, was recently married to Miss Lillian Mason Floyd. The ceremony was performed by Dr. A.
A. McGeachy, ’01, at the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. Rev. T. H. Dimmock, ’10, was installed as the pastor
of the Presbyterian Church of Oxford, N.C. on January 24th. Mr. D. Dupuy, was placed at the head of the
Presbyterian League recently established at Greensboro, N.C., to facilitate the organization of missions and churches and to promote Sunday School
work.

Two Davidson Alumni are reflecting glory on their Alma Mater by their performances at Union Seminary. Patrick D. Miller, ‘22,
has won the Hoge Fellowship for 1926-27 while Daniel P. McGeachy, also of the class of 1922, has won the
Larus Fellowship for the same year. These fellowships amount to graduate work and enable those who win them to fit
themselves unusually well for their chosen work.

K. A. West, Fayetteville, N.C., who is teaching near Wilmington, were visitors on the campus this weekend.

“SHADOWS” AND “SHIPS” (Continued from page 1)

A man must choose some goal for his life. He must consider what he has to give and strive to
supply the needs he can fill. Salary and reward will come to anyone who is diligent, but these things should
be secondary. Service for God and the world is man’s highest goal in this life. In this way alone can
he do the most with his life.

ARTCRAFT THEATRE Mooresville, N.C. Mix in “Lucky Horseshoe.” Friday, March 5th. Evelyn Brent in “Lady Robinhood.” Also comedies. Daily change
of program. Admission 10 and 20 cents. C. I. GRESHAM, Mgr.

Start the New Year off right by letting Mayhew do your cleaning and dyeing. We are prepared to give more
efficient service now than ever before.

MAYHEWS Master Cleaner and Dyer Representatives: K. S. Christenbury, 109 West “Bob” Link, 31 Georgia

Visit Our New Fountain When in Charlotte Tryon Drug Co. Agents: Nunnally Whitman Candies

$29.75 $34.75 GET THAT SPRING SUIT NOW FROM STAR DIRECT TAILORS BALTIMORE, MD. G. W. LaPitz will display a complete
line of the smartest spring fabrics. Let him fit you up in one of the smartest college cuts. He also
carries a nice line of shoes and shirts. “They are built up to a standard, not down to a price.”
PHI HALL, MONDAY, MAR. 1st College Representatives: RAGAN and ZIMMERMAN $29.75 $34.75
