en * THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1926

Junior Class Minstrel is Progressing Rapidly
Class of 1928 to Give Negro Performance December 20

A committee composed of Bud Guthrey, R. S. Link, Tyree Dillard, and “Mutt” Stigler have practically completed their plans for
the Junior Minstrel to be held the night of December 20th. Regular practices for the performance will begin Thursday night.
Reports from this committee indicate a thoroughly enjoyable and delightful program will be presented.

A number of new attractions will be in evidence when the minstrel is presented with its complete cast. Tyree Dillard
will be the interlocutor and the new quartet has been practicing faithfully. A Hebrew character skit will be presented and
several other features of similar magnitude. Ed Wilson, the premier soloist of the Glee Club, will also give several selections,
accompanied by H. R. Mobley. Reserved seats will be on sale sometime the latter part of next week. It is
practically certain that there will be no “rush” seats whatsoever sold for the evening performance.

The proceeds from this entertainment will go to the fund to help defray the expenses of Junior Week, which will
be held the latter part of April. It has been the usual custom of Junior classes to sponsor a lyceum
program during the year, but the class of 1928 decided that it would raise its money from other sources. Several
girls’ glee clubs have been secured for engagements after the holidays to aid in replenishing the coffers of the Junior
class.

DAVIS-LYNCH

At Wake Forest, N. C., on December 2nd, Samuel Mosely Davis, of the class of 1918, was married to Miss
Grace Lynch. While at Davidson, Sam was a strong man in the line of a most notable football team, won
his “D” several years in succession, and was president of the student body during the year 1917-18. Sam was a
member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity. Now he is Mr. Davis, a prominent young business man of Mt. Olive, N.
C. Mrs. Davis (a cousin of Professor Lingle, of the Davidson faculty) is a daughter of Rev. Dr. James W.
Lynch, of the Department of Bible at Wake Forest College. She was educated at the Woman's College of Kentucky, in
Danville, and at the University of Georgia.

The Davidsonian extends greetings and best wishes to our former student body president and his accomplished bride.

Queens Glee Club Gives Pleasing Program Here

Pleasing Program of Chorus and Orchestra Well Received by Davidson Audience

The Queens College Choral Club, being presented in concert in Shearer Hall, was well received by the Davidson audience.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Entailing a loss of over $250,000 and an inestimable loss in subjective valuation of one of the South's most historic
college buildings, Davidson College was deprived of the old Chambers building by fire early Monday morning. As the fire was
dying down, a bugle sounded assembly, and the students, coming from all directions, some clad only in pajamas and bathrobes,
lined up in a body. Dr. W. J. Martin made a ringing address, declaring that the spirit which had made
Davidson one of the strongest colleges of the South would assert itself in the midst of the catastrophe and that
an even greater Davidson would arise from the ashes of old Chambers.

At the annual meeting of the Alumni Association of Charlotte, held last Friday night, a movement was launched for the
organization of a general alumni association having as its purpose the promotion of athletics at Davidson. Dr. W. J. Martin
spoke on “The Relation of the Alumni to the College.” Dr. Martin’s address was followed by short speeches from members
of the faculty and prominent alumni, who gave expressions of loyalty to Davidson and an increasing need for better cooperation
among the alumni in securing more athletics, better equipment, and increased endowment for the institution.

It has been only five years to the day since the stately walls of Old Chambers were wrecked by a
fire on Monday morning shortly before five o'clock. The burning of this, one of the South’s most historic college buildings,
sustained a money loss of over $250,000 by the students, faculty, and alumni of Davidson College. As the fire was
dying away, a bugle sounded assembly and the students, coming from every direction, some clad only in pajamas and bathrobes,
lined up in a body. In a ringing address, Dr. Martin declared that the catastrophe would not interfere with college
work after Monday. He inspired the students with a new spirit which enabled them to “carry on” in the midst
of disappointment and sorrow. At 9:30 Dr. Martin called a faculty meeting and at 10:30 the students assembled at Shearer
Hall for the purpose of meeting the matter squarely and of making definite arrangements for the housing of the unfortunates.
After Dr. Martin’s address, the students stood and with heads bared sang “O Davidson” as an indication of their fervid
college spirit and loyalty.

At various times during Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, peace conferences were held at the boarding houses, and delegates representing Davidson
College got their share of the victuals. When they adjourned, yells were given for the landladies in a feeble endeavor
to show their appreciation for making such a delicious dinner possible.Tuesday evening, November 23rd, was enthusiastically applauded, time after time.
Under the direction of Miss Elizabeth Starr and accompanied by Miss Mary Emma Frazer, the choruses as well as the
individual numbers were well chosen as well as splendidly given. Misses Lynn, Noel Walker, and Annie Mae Pritchette were encored
heartily, being called back several times.

Although the day’s hunt was rather unsuccessful in a way, they saw three deer, but curses, the deer saw them
first and sped away with the fleetness of the wind.

Miss Walker was very clever in her readings as were Misses Lynn and Pritchette in their popular songs.

“The Friskies,” composing the jazz orchestra, were warmly received and called back time and again. Especially were the numbers with
singing parts good. The vocal solos given by Misses Emily Sifford, Rosalie Wooten, and Zelma Atwell were very prettily and
artistically given. “Maidens, Remember,” “A Bird in Hand,” “A Flowery Courtship,” and “First Meeting” were well rendered by Misses Joyner,
Atwell, Sifford, Wooten, Johnston, Blythe, Nance, Steele, Dameron, Huneycutt, Beatty, Ford, Pritchette, Moore, Walker, and Frazer. The well-trained chorus was
good in the presentation of “May the Maiden”—Faust Ballet and “The Walnut Tree,” by Schumann. The closing number was a
group of popular songs, concluded by “O! Davidson.” Miss Frazer’s accompaniments were very pleasing in all the numbers.

The management of the Davidson Glee Club, under whose auspices the concert was presented, expressed satisfaction at the evening’s receipts.

At 7 o'clock sharp on Thanksgiving morn, the student body of Davidson College was awakened by the ringing of a
bell, indicating that it was high time to arise and prepare to make the trip to Greenville for the Furman
game via the special train. Stops were made at different points along the way for the purpose of taking on
more passengers. It was necessary for the special to wait quite a while in Spartanburg, so the cheer leader mounted
the engine and led the students in “three Hi’s” for Spartanburg. After the yelling came the singing of “O Davidson.”
When the train arrived at Greenville, a rush was made to get tickets for the game and then a search
was made to fill “the aching void.”

Alumni Meets After Lengthy Separation

A very unusual thing happened on the streets of Fayetteville this morning, when two prominent men met for the first
time since they parted on the battlefield in 1865. Mr. Charles Glover, of this city, while walking up the street
met and recognized Mr. Dan Burrell, of Charlotte, whom he had not seen since the close of the Civil War.
Mr. Glover and Mr. Burrell were both attending Davidson College in 1861 and at the outbreak of the Civil War
they left school to fight for the South and her cause. They parted in 1865 and never saw each other
again until this morning. Another remarkable thing is that only last night the Davidson alumni formed an association in this
city, to which Mr. Glover belongs. In fact, he is the senior member of the alumni. It is needless to
say that Mr. Glover and Mr. Burrell spent some time this morning talking over old times.”—Fayetteville Observer.

Westbrook—“Actions speak louder than words.”
She—“Yes, and so does static.”

FORENSIC PROGRAM

(Continued from page 1)

Emory and V. P. I.; W. H. Branch, debated against Sewanee; T. G. McCutchen, debated against Presbyterian College; Henry Powell,
debated against University of Pittsburgh; and L. D. Wharton, Jr., debated against Wake Forest and Sewanee. There are also a
number of men who have made freshman intercollegiate teams who can be counted on to give these men opposition in
the tryouts.

The following is the complete schedule:
Dec. 10—V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va.
Dec. 13—George Washington University at Davidson.
Spring—University of the South (Sewanee) at Davidson.
Spring—William and Mary at Williamsburg, Va.
Spring—Gettysburg at Gettysburg, Pa.
Spring—Rutgers University at New Brunswick, N. J.
Spring—Emory University at Davidson.
Spring—Duke University at Davidson.

Nicholas—“Dear, let’s set our wedding date for next Friday.”
She—“Oh, we can't. I have a date for that night.”

WHEN IN STATESVILLE CALL ON US FOR YOUR BARBER SHOP WANTS
Commercial Barber Shop
Statesville, N. C.

Men are no longer on the fence

The return trip—begun at 9 bells—was rather uneventful, most of the boys choosing to get in a little shut-eye, and
soon all were back at the starting point.

Natural tobacco taste—that settles it!

The huge popularity of Chesterfield shows clearly that what men want—tobacco character, natural good taste—they are finding in Chesterfield, and
in Chesterfield alone. For, in Chesterfield the world’s finest tobaccos are exactly matched to bring out natural tobacco goodness. And
to this method, the oldest and surest known to tobacco men, Chesterfield owes its taste and its ever-increasing popularity.
