—

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1926

Rev. Walker Speaks at Vesper Services Sunday

“Christ Calls His Disciples” Used As Subject

The speaker at “Y” last Sunday night was Rev. J. M. Walker, pastor of Steele Creek Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.
Mr. Walker was a member of the class of 1907, and since his graduation has taken a real interest in
Davidson. While here as a student, he took a leading part in student affairs, being an athlete as well as
a leader in scholastic standing.

Mr. Walker built his talk up around the story of Christ’s calling His disciples, and showed us that this was
the beginning of the Church, and of Christ's teachings. He urged us to pass on to others this old, old
story, and to realize the responsibility which rests on each one of us in Christ’s plan to save the world.
To illustrate this point, he took as an illustration the incident recounted in the book “The Christ of the Indian
Road,” in which the people of India are represented as crying out for the Gospel of Christ rather than for
the civilization or customs of the western world. These people seem to care almost nothing for our habits. They are
satisfied with their own habits, but they are not satisfied with their religion. It does not satisfy the longings of
their souls, and they are crying out to us for something better. If we fail to give it to them,
we are failing in our duty to God and to our fellow men, and we will be responsible for those
who die in darkness.

As an illustration to show the wonder and glory of Christ, Mr. Walker used the words “come and see” which
are found in several places in the Bible. When the harlot went back to her people after seeing Christ for
the first time, she was so different from what she had been that all the people wondered, and when they
asked her why it was, she told them of Christ. However, His glory was so great, that all she could
say when asked to describe Him was “come and see.” He told us that if we would only “come and
see” Christ, we would have no trouble believing in Him and in His word. We cannot meet Christ face to
face in the strictest sense of the words, but we can learn of Him from His Word, and through His
glory, and thus learn to give Him the honor and worship which He deserves. When one of the disciples whom
Christ had called met his brother, he also used the words “come and see.” He was so enthused over Christ’s
wonderful personality that he wanted his brother to see Him too, and he told him that he had found the
true Messiah, to “come and see him.”

Mr. Walker urged each one of us to “come and see” Christ, and, after we have seen Him, to show
by our lives that we have seen Him, and that we too have been won for Him.

TEX TILSON TO BE MARRIED

(Continued from page 1)

The football team has appropriated an adequate sum for the gift.

Coach Tilson started playing football at V. P. I. in the fall of 1918 and played there every fall through
1922, a total of five seasons. This rangy linesman captained the team in 1921; he returned the next year to
help his team through a hard fall.

Since coming to Davidson in 1923 Tilson has had charge of the Wildcat line. For the last two years he
has had complete charge of the cinder path stars.

It requires months of roaming the odd places of Europe to assemble the multitude of original fabric ideas that have
made Braeburn Smart Styled Clothes for College Men famous.

Know Braeburn Clothes once and swear allegiance forever.

$35 to $50
MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

© 1926

It’s so easy to like the best

THAT’S why Camel is the most popular cigarette ever made. In all tobacco history there has never been a cigarette
preference like Camel’s. Nothing is too good or expensive that will make Camels the world’s finest smoke.

Camel is the friendliest cigarette ever made. From early morning to night’s last reluctant parting you just can’t smoke enough
Camels to tire the taste. Camels are the celebrated smoke that brought an end forever to cigaretty after-taste.

If you’ve not yet learned how really satisfying a cigarette can be, just try Camels. Into this one cigarette the
world’s largest tobacco organization puts every good quality that could be wished for in a cigarette. All the mild and
mellow fragrance. The most perfect blending. The utmost in smoking enjoyment and contentment, regardless of price.

Have a Camel!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.

At the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Modern.

Necessary to your fraternity home in your efforts to make it more

Stevens Electric Co.

Fresh Country Vegetables
GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
Statesville, N. C.

DAVIDSON, N. C.

FELLOWS!
You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Drinks Candy Smokes
Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N. C.

Broadway Theatre

WHERE QUALITY MEETS

THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, Dec. 9, 10, 11

RICHARD BARTHELMESS

IN

The White Black Sheep

Three Days Only

No Advance in Admission
