THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 11, 1926

Bevies of Southern Belles Flock to Davidson Campus

For the last weekend, 84 feminine visitors were guests of the fraternities. Many distant places were represented in this bevy
of beauties, some being from Atlanta and even as far as Lexington, Miss. There were 14 girls from Converse, nine
from Queens, three from N.C.C.W., and a visitor each from Washington Seminary, Winthrop, and Randolph-Macon. The invading belles took possession
of the campus Saturday night, and from then on they were the center of interest.

Their entertainment began with the basketball game with Guilford, followed right afterwards by the movies. On Sunday, practically all were
escorted to church and many heard the Hon. J. Stitt Wilson again at the “Y” vesper services. It is taken
for granted that they were suitably entertained for the rest of the evening. Monday morning, with all the guests departed,
the campus seemed unusually cheerless.

The list of the guests of each fraternity follows:

Beta Theta Pi
Misses Pious Pinkney, Due West, S.C.; Elizabeth Simpson, Converse; Elizabeth Anderson, Rebe Jones, Converse; Liza Barron, Converse; Ash Lane, Converse;
Rachel Highsmith, Converse; Eulalie Campbell, Winthrop; Winifred Pegram, Charlotte; Isabel Pharr, Charlotte; Nanny Donnely, Charlotte; Tiny Smith, Tarboro; Alice Dunklee,
Winston-Salem; Ida Bothwell, Winthrop; Betty Dunlap, Rock Hill, S.C.; Isabel Dunlap, Rock Hill, S.C.; Putt Dudley, Charlotte.

Kappa Sigma
Misses Mary Evans, Converse; Nancy Tyree, Winston-Salem; Betty Blanton, Converse; Isabel Morgan, Converse; Evelyn Shieder, York, S.C.; Elizabeth Stewart, N.C.C.W.;
Margaret Caldwell, N.C.C.W.; Tootie Rideout, Salisbury; Julia Randolph-Macon; Ruth Erwin, Davidson; Ann Williams, Queens; Mrs. Sallie Paisly, Davidson.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Misses Frances Allen, Anderson, S.C.; Mary Wheeler, Converse; Craigie Pegram, Charlotte; Fanny Anderson, Converse; Margaret Battle, Converse; Miriam Rankin, Greensboro;
Margaret Atwater, Greensboro.

Pi Kappa Phi
Misses Annette Boney, N.C.C.W.; Piggy Newell, Greensboro; Marion Gallagher, Charlotte; Katherine Wooten, Charlotte; Lyons, Elizabeth Carmichael, Charlotte; Mary Stuart Menzies,
Hickory; Faith Dudley, Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Mrs. W.D. Graham, and Misses Nina Shaddock, Lexington, Miss.; Lois Dobson, Washington Seminary; Mayme Thomas, Atlanta, Ga.; Jake White, Converse;
Frances Smith, Moore, Rock Hill, S.C.; Lucy Heath, Charlotte; Hortense Cobb, Lancaster, S.C.; Jane Taliaferro, Charlotte; Tiny Thompson, Converse; Eleanor
Kuhn, Charlotte; Charlotte Milstead, Charlotte; Marjorie Cargill, Charlotte; Rosalie Wiley, Salisbury; Miriam Weeks, Wilmington, N.C.; Jean Martin, Davidson.

Theta Upsilon Omega
Misses Evelyn Martin, Queens College; Kathleen Brown, Queens College; Margaret Hodges, Queens College; Carolyn Booth, Queens College; Margaret Whittet, Charlotte;
Mildred Biggers, Charlotte; Isa Tucker, Charlotte; Louise Garibaldi, Charlotte; Mary Morris Reed, Charlotte; Adele Glasgow, Charlotte; Margaret McConnell, Gastonia; Elizabeth
Causey, Greensboro.

Sigma Delta
Misses Margaret Loftin, Queens College; Hilda Nance, Queens College; Jule Roberts, Blacksburg, S.C.; Sara Grier, Matthews; Katherine Rogers, Mooresville.

Pyramid Club
Misses Louise Harry, Queens College; Anita Wharton, Queens College; Pete Reid, Charlotte; Clara Porter, Charlotte; Dorothy Feckler, Charlotte; Louise Knox,
Statesville; Elizabeth Cannady, Oxford.

REAL SILK UNIT TO BE HERE

At a recent visit of Mr. Sidney L. Price, collegiate supervisor for Real Silk, Davidson was listed among the hundred
or more colleges which have student units. Real Silk is doing much for the man working his way through school.
An intensive training course is given from April 1st to June 1st which has much to do with the high
average of earnings, one dollar and a half per hour, including all the workers from the poorest to the best.
Student representatives in the University of Illinois received $25,000 during the past summer. The contract as head organizer here has
been given to Harllee Bordeaux.

Week End Faculty Rejects Student Motion After Conference

Last Thursday morning a motion was placed before the student body to the effect that a committee be appointed to
request the college authorities to allow upperclassmen averaging as much as 70 in a majority of their courses to remain
in school. The motion was voted upon by the faculty of the college Saturday afternoon and was not granted.

Olin Nesbit presented the motion to the student body in a very eloquent manner, stating that 27 Sophomores had been
forced to leave school because they failed to make the passing grade of 75 in a majority of their work.
He also stated that the passing grade of Sophomores had been raised 15 points during the past year since their
passing grade during their Freshman year was only 60. This jump was unfair, he said, and he moved that a
committee be appointed to request the faculty to lower the passing grade to 70, for this year only, which would
allow a number of men to remain in school. F.C. seconded the motion and Julian Lake upheld it in a
short talk. The motion was brought to a vote and passed by the student body. Whereupon, President Baker appointed a
committee headed by Jim Hendrix to present the matter to the faculty. The other members of the committee were Olin
Nesbit, Hayden Hollingsworth, and Tom Baker.

The faculty met on Saturday afternoon to give the matter full consideration. The committee presented its side of the case
and the faculty gave it full consideration. After careful deliberation, however, the college authorities refused to grant the petition. A
number of them stated that they were personally in favor of it, but officially they were not, because, if granted,
the petition would set a precedent for the coming years. The students in general felt that it was rather hard
on the Sophomore class to have their passing grade raised 15 points in one year. However, the majority of them
realized the fairness of the faculty’s decision. If the petition had been granted, 10 men would have been allowed to
remain in school and the number of failures would have equaled those of the mid-semester of 1925.

Interesting Talk of Mlle. Clemont Heard By Students

On Monday night in Shearer Hall a very entertaining and informing lecture was given to the students by Mlle. Clemont,
of Versailles, France. Dr. Lingle, in introducing the speaker, paid a high tribute to the French nation and its people,
saying that every man had two countries, his own and France, for he recognized it as being the most beautiful
next to heaven. Mlle. Clemont has been giving lectures in this country for many years to the college and outstanding
organizations, and Davidson was most fortunate in securing a speaker of such wide renown. Mlle. Clemont represented her country as
one of intellectuality, a nation of men of thought rather than of action. Those that are leaders in the civil
and political affairs are usually professors, scholars of the highest type, and not those that win their way by their
physical ability. The whole world has depended on France for its thought, for they have contributed to its best philosophy.and
science. One of their greatest thinkers, Bergson, has influenced the whole world with his teachings, teachings that are abstract and
“useless.” He is widely known as a poet and a philosopher, and has forwarded the idea that intuition is the
greatest influence in man’s actions; giving a comparison that intellect is the gift for making the practical things of life,
but that intuition is the expression of the spirit. Language was first used in the communication of one being to
another, and concerned the necessary things of life, but the language of the soul has not been found, and its
expression in common speech is inadequate. Bergson is said to have originated the idea of provision for two sub-organizers as
assistants, men with whom interviews have been given. The unit here, which at present has three men, is proposed to
be increased to 30. Mr. Price will be registered all day February 15th for conferences with students.

Interracial Commission Announces Prize Offer
Three Prizes to be Given for Best Essays on Inter-racial Co-operation

The Commission on Interracial Co-operation, with headquarters in Atlanta, Ga., announces the offer of three prizes of $75, $50, and
$25 each, for the three best papers on race relations submitted by students of Southern white colleges during the present
school year. The announcement says: “Contestants will be free to choose any phase of the subject, though preference will be
given to practical discussions of conditions in the South, with suggestions for their improvement. Papers should not exceed 2,500 words
in length and must be in the hands of the commission on or before May 15th. The contest is open
to all college students in the 13 Southern States, including Kentucky and Oklahoma, and for the purpose of encouraging study
and discussion of race relations. Full information as to the contest, together with a reading list, will be supplied by
the commission to anyone interested.”

of the Subconscious mind as the controller of the body, and his influence in this has been felt in that
it was accepted as a fad for a long time. He also said that it is impossible for a man
to forget, that every experience that comes in life, even those that are felt at an early age, are so
engraved on his mind, that they influence him as long as he lives. To him, life was a state of
perpetual motion, that we will continue to move and change until the state of perfection is reached, for it is
the lack of perfection that causes motion.

(Continued on page 8)

Doctor McConnell Will Command New Hospital
New General Hospital of Fourth Corps Area Under Command of Colonel McConnell

General Hospital, No. 95, with Columbia, S. C., as tentative headquarters, has been created by recent orders from General Hagood,
of the Fourth Corps Area, and Col. John W. McConnell, of Davidson, has been placed in command. Both Davidson College
and Colonel McConnell are to be congratulated upon this assignment, for the unit is composed of some of the leading
specialists in medicine and surgery of the Carolinas and Georgia. Though the organization will be mobilized only in case of
emergency, the instruction of the officers will continue through summer courses in training camps and service schools. Colonel McConnell entered
service during the war as 1st Lieutenant and was promoted through the different grades, serving in France as Lieutenant Colonel.
He had the honor of being presented to King Albert of Belgium, who thanked him personally for his work with
the Allies, and he also received thanks from the French officials for his care of French wounded and civilians. At
one time he was quartered for a week in the old Chateau of Marquis de Lafayette, where he operated on
a number of French war orphans who had been collected at that castle. Some of these children had been wounded
by shellfire, but the work done by Colonel McConnell was throat surgery.

On a later visit to France, Dr. and Mrs. McConnell were invited to the Chateau of Count Pontgibaud. The Count
is a member of the famous order of Cincinnatus as one of his forefathers had served with LaFayette on the
staff of General Washington during the Revolution, and this honor descends to the eldest son in line. The Hon. Brevard
McDowell, of Charlotte, an alumnus of Davidson, is also a member of this order.

Popular Alumni to Speak to Students

Buck Currie, ‘22, and Tink Taylor, ‘24, of Davidson, will compose a deputation from Louisville Theological Seminary to visit the
campus during the weekend, speaking at the meetings of a number of religious organizations Sunday. Buck Currie was president of
the student body, all-state baseball pitcher, and a leader in work of the Y. M. C. A. and other organizations
while here. The members of the present Senior class will remember him as the Y. M. C. A. secretary for
the year 1922-23. Both as student and “Y” secretary he was one of the most popular and universally admired men
on the Hill. Tink Taylor was one of the most popular men of his class, being a leader in forensic
lines and prominent in the work of the Y. M. C. A. Both men have warm places in the hearts
of Davidson students. The Volunteer and Ministerial Bands and possibly other organizations have asked these men to speak at their
regular meetings Sunday. Buck Currie will be the speaker at the “Y” vesper service, and is sure to bring a
real message.

Rev. Willis R. Booth has resigned his pastorate at Henryville, Ind., and has accepted a call to the Southside Presbyterian
Church, Vincennes, Ind.

When it’s the night of the season’s most festive dance—and Mimi, herself, has consented to go—when in a last moment
before starting you thank your good fortune—have a Camel! Into the making of this one cigarette goes all of the
ability of the world’s largest organization of expert tobacco men. Nothing is too good for Camels. The most skillful blending.
No other cigarette made is like Camels. No better cigarette can be made. The overwhelming choice of experienced smokers. The
choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos. The most scientific package. Camels.

WHEN the night of the famous prom has come—and you contemplate your luck and your greatness—have a Camel! For Camel
adds of its own romance to every memorable event. Camels never tire the taste, never leave a cigaretty aftertaste. When
you light a Camel, you may know you are smoking the world’s mellowest cigarette. So this night, as you fare
boldly forth to society’s smartest and gayest affair—learn then how sympathetic, how really fine and friendly a cigarette can be.
Have a Camel!

Our highest wish, if you do not yet know Camel quality, is that you try them. We invite you to
compare Camels with any cigarette made at any price.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
