8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 21, 1926

Dr. H. Marvin, ’14, assistant professor of medicine at the Yale University School of Medicine, has been appointed for research work in the field of cardiovascular physiology in Sir Thomas Lewis’ Laboratory, at the University College Hospital, London, England.

Continued from page 1

the Presbyterians on the one-yard line. Grey received the punt on his 35-yard marker and returned 18 yards. Leggette gained one yard and the quarter ended.

The fourth bracket opened with a five-yard gain by Grey. A pass was grounded and with the ball on State’s 15-yard line, Grey was called back for a drop-kick. Standing on the 25-yard white mark, he delved hard into the pigskin, sending it sailing through the uprights and thus chalked up another victory for Davidson.

Only once did State threaten to score against the visitors; this was in the fourth stanza, after the Wildcats had scored, marching from their own 36-yard line, they advanced to Davidson's 25-yard marker by a series of brilliant line plays. Austin, attempting to tie the score, tried a drop-kick from the 25-yard line, but failed. After a few plays the game ended.

One Minute to Play

Except for an excellent start at the first of the game and the spurt in the fourth quarter, State was on the defense most of the time. They had difficulty in stopping Wells and Grey, and several times it seemed as if these players would elude the entire State team and go for touchdowns. At various stages of the game Wells gained, at one clip, 23, 15, and 25 yards, while Grey’s feature on the ground-gaining was his elusiveness in running punts. State made most of the first downs for the Techmen, decidedly featuring the Wolfpack on his offensive and defensive game. He was largely responsible for breaking up the seven unsuccessful passes of the Davidson team. Line luminaries were Ritchie, for Davidson, and Captain Logan and Austin, for State. Every man on both teams played excellent ball, and to everyone of the 22 men who battled on that afternoon goes the honor of treating gridiron fans to a great game of football.

Line-up and summary:

Davidson. Position. State.
Pinkney .......... Floyd
Bohannon ........ Lambe
Mitchell .......... Ford
McConnell ........ Logan (c)
Ritchie ........... Vaughn
Arrowood ........ Austin
Sappenfield ...... Ridenhour
Grey ............. Hennesa
English (c) ...... Melton
Outen ........... 

Score by quarters:
Davidson ........ 0 0 0 3

Scoring drop-kick: Dick Grey (Davidson).

Substitutions—Davidson: Kell for Leggette, Harrison for Kell, J. Grey for Boggs, Wilson for Sappenfield, Maulden for Bohannon, Nisbet for Wilson, McColgan for Mitchell, McGeachy for Grey, Leggette for Harrison, Sappenfield for Nisbet, Bohannon for Maulden, Nesbit for Leggette, Laws for J. Grey, Harrison for Outen, Boggs for Wells. State: Souman for Hennesa, Donnell for Ford, Evans for Vaughn, Ford for Donnell, Beatty for Austin, Austin for Floyd, Goodman for Beatty, Morris for Outen.

Officials—Referee: Magoffin (Michigan); umpire: Gooch (Virginia); head linesman: Carrington (Virginia).

Statistics: First downs: Davidson 11 (2 on penalty); State 6 (1 on penalty). Penalties: Davidson, 25 yards; State, 55 yards. Passes attempted by Davidson, 7; completed, none; intercepted by State, 1; passes attempted by State, 3; completed for 90 yards; intercepted by Davidson, 1. Average return of punts, by Davidson, 10 yards; by State, 15 yards.

MEL TROTTER (Continued from page 1)

the right way by the aid of an old Irishman. “There must be a double cure before one may be saved,” he said. Furthering the idea of the “Double Cure,” he quoted Psalms 103:3, “Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy diseases.” Not only are we forgiven but we are also healed. Taking his text at this point, he quoted II Corinthians 5:21, “For he hath made Him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God in Him.” “God made Jesus to be sin for me, that I might be made the righteousness of God in Him. If Christ doesn’t bear our sins, we must. Every bit of punishment we should bear was taken by Him. He was spit upon and slapped in place of me. He didn’t open His mouth because He had nothing to say. He took our place and gave us His, giving us His peace and Heaven and taking our Hell.”

“We can bank on nothing to save us except a very definite yielding. No half measures will be sufficient for we must give our hearts wholly and He will take our place. He has my place now and I have His.”“I can spoil you for the world, if I can make you see Jesus,” Mr. Trotter concluded.

DOCTOR BEN LACY
(Continued from page 1)

The R.O.T.C. unit is going to stage a parade in his honor while he is here. Last year Dr. C. F. Myers, of Greensboro, conducted the fall evangelistic services arranged by the Y.M.C.A. He was assisted by a mixed quartet which added much interest and variety to the services with its splendid musical programs. The spring life-work meeting was held by Dr. D. H. Ogden, of Mobile, Ala. One of the important phases of these meetings is the individual conference work carried on by the speakers. A schedule is arranged for all students desirous of a conference with the speaker on religious subjects, the question of life-work, or any other topics along these lines. A spring meeting is being planned by the “Y” for the coming spring, but neither the time nor the speaker has been determined yet.

MASQUERS PRESENT PLAY
(Continued from page 1)

Before the play was presented, Professor Irwin made a short talk stating that it was very informal, and its chief motive was to get a little interest stirred up in the club. The play was presented before a fair crowd, and following the play, Mr. Irwin made another talk. This time he read a play entitled “Ten Days,” which he intends to use during Junior Speaking of this year. The play was written by Bob Covington. Afterwards, a large number of students were given parts and told to act them out. In this way, Professor Irwin uncovered some very good material. The faculty is to be petitioned for a certain number of days off the hill, so that several trips may be had this year. Outside of this, no definite arrangements have been made.

JIM HAMMETT CHOSEN
(Continued from page 2)

His name is already written large in Carolina football. The name L. O. Hammett is mentioned in praiseworthy fashion in many numbers of The Davidsonian during his stay here. Leading his teammates against such formidable elevens as Georgia Tech and Washington and Lee, he was always a stellar performer at left tackle, and his last year is remembered especially for his part in the slashing victory of the Wildcats over Wake Forest.

C. E. T. C. HAS USUAL MEETING ON SUNDAY

The student class of Christian Endeavor met Sunday afternoon in Shearer Hall. The meeting was opened with several old songs and following this, Bill Ostaper led the group in prayer. Reid Graham was the leader for the occasion; he had prepared a very interesting topic based on the scripture found in the 3rd chapter of John. His talk was primarily directed on the ways of securing variety in the meetings and how to get the proper enthusiasm and cooperation from the members. The class was then turned over to the president for any business that might come up. The collection was received for the literature that has been ordered. After the secretary had called the roll and read the minutes of the last meeting, the class closed with the Mizpah benediction.

Five Years Ago

On October the twentieth, five years ago, the whole student body went to the Queen City to see the Wake Forest battle. Winfield was the scene of the encounter. During the intermission between the halves, when the score was 7-0 with Davidson at the big end, the whole aggregation turned out for the “snakest” snake dance ever staged. It was given amid the cheers of the “Queens” in the grandstand and the strains of “O Davidson” from the band. Wake Forest was the victor in that Great Gridiron Contest by a margin score of 10-7. The feature of the game was when Davidson held the Baptists for four downs on the one-foot line. The seniors won from the juniors in the class basketball contest by a score of 22-2, and then lost to the freshmen by a margin score of 18-17.

The query for the literary societies’ debating was: “Resolved, That the Ku Klux Klan is a menace to the nation and should be suppressed.” As a matter of fact, this debate was changed to an oration by C. F. Wildman, in the Eumanean Society, his subject being—“Women.” The Ministerial Band sent out its first deputation to Huntersville. R. Bitzer, an able student, proved in a debater’s style, “That every young Christian not providentially hindered should give full-time Christian service.” The week ended with the R.O.T.C. companies practicing for Armistice Day maneuvers and the Wildcats looking forward to a hard-fought game over Wofford the following Saturday.

Davidson students and townspeople were privileged in having a chautauqua in their midst with its program of helpful addresses and enjoyable music. Radcliffe Entertainers spent three days of the week here and good programs were presented. The Y.M.C.A. considered itself fortunate in having been able to secure such a man as Brother A. C. Mark to be with them for four days. His winning personality and his loyal devotion to Christ made him a powerful factor for good among all with whom he came in contact.

MEN’S FINE SUITS AND OVERCOATS
REG. $45 $29.50

Efird’s purchase $32,000 stock of fine Fall and Winter Suits and Overcoats at enormous price concessions and we are passing the savings on to you. New styles, excellent fabrics, best colors, collegiate types, tremendous selections, choice $29.50

MEN’S SECTION STREET FLOOR