THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 6, 1926

THESE WOMEN

Do right and fear no man; don’t write; A little self-conscious and fear no woman. I am always When I
purchase A woman has no head for figures, except those of the other woman. Some women with a past are
so pleased with it that they seem always trying to live up to it.

Westbrook—"I say, old man, can you take a joke?”
Ben B.—"Sure, where do you want to go?”

He (passionately)—"My heart's idol—”
She (dispassionately)—"Put it to work.”

Dumb—"That’s a stadium,”
Bell—"Yes, it’s even built in tiers.”

He—"Ever been to Greenland?”
She—"No, only Lapland.”

First Miss—"Why do you wear such low-necked gowns?”
Second Miss—"Oh, just to show my heart's in the right place.”

I have the feeling That my tailor Is sizing me up. She was only a tailor’s daughter but she suited
me.

OO-LA-LA

Shaddock (to Wilki)—"What did you come back in here for?”
Wilki—"To see yoo-o0-00, dear.”
Shaddock—"Take a long look and pass on.”
Brassie Baker—"You mean take a long look and pass OUT.”

She—"There’s one consolation in being bowlegged.”
He—"What’s that?”
She—"No one will ever accuse you of being knock-kneed.”

When Biggers had a cough he Was told to drink no coffee And now he’s sued For he is rude,
And won't cough up his cough fee.

Some freshman wants to know if Davidson had some Airplains would Winston-Salem.

Lines on a convict.

SORE MUSCLES. Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising
relief. VICKS Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly.

Horizontal.

Fresh Pritchard—"Do you play golf, Farnhart?”
Farnhart—"Do I? Why, I played the Pinehurst course once in 85.”
Same Freshman—"Prevaricator! It wasn’t built until ’16.”

Divorce is one of the penalties for catching dear out of season.

Mr. A—"I have lost the right to be loved.”
Mr. B—"Howzat?”
Mr. A—"I’m married.”

RALPH’S MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS Johnston’s Barber Shop Just beyond the Bank.

"It isn’t customary.” And then, oh then, you should have heard That fellow cus-to Mary.

Diplomacy is all right—if it gets the diploma.

Pinkney—"Now that you've been abroad, do you know any French?”
Bohannan—"Yes, an address book.”

The best Peppermint Chewing Sweet for any money any day.

Two pints make one quart. One quart makes one wild.

I know a young girl, she’s an ace, She's possessed of much beauty and grace, But one thing she abhors,
About summer sea-shores: It washes the paint from her face.

Hippo—"What's the distance between Gus’s ears?”
Rosie—"One block!”

McMillan—"I want a coat to put on around the dormitory.”
Tailor—"How large is your dormitory, sir?”

He—"What shape is a kiss?”
She—"I don’t know.”
He—"Give me one and we'll call it square.”

A dentist is a man who makes a mountain out of a molar.

Fresh—"I suppose you met lots of Greeks while you were in Athens.”
Soph—"Yes, they have lots of them over there.”beat his breast. The bells began to toll, but still the stud refused
to go into the buttonhole.

Leading Attractions to be Shown During Week

Program for Week at Local Theater Includes Many Attractive Productions

A number of interesting pictures have been scheduled at the Davidson theater for the coming week. These pictures include a
number of the best pictures recently produced and also some of the leading artists in the cinema world. For the
week of May 10-15 inclusive, three notable pictures have been scheduled. On Monday, May 10, “Just Suppose” will be shown.
This production promises to be one of the best shown at the local picture house in some time. On Tuesday,
May 11, “Flashes of Action” will be presented. This picture will be for the benefit of the American Legion, the
Davidson and Cornelius post having charge. On Wednesday and Thursday, May 12 and 13, a feature production will be presented.
This will be the “Road to Yesterday,” a special Cecil B. de Mille picture. On Friday, Reginald Denny will appear
in “Shiner’s Dress Suit,” and the climax to the week's program will be Warner Bros.’ presentation of “The Fighting Edge.”
Special weeklies and news reels will also be shown during the programs.

JUDGE CURRIE SPEAKS (Continued from page 1)

...main during the present year and three prominent speakers have been engaged for these last meetings. Professor Foreman will deliver
the annual sermon before the Y. M. C. A. at its last meeting of the year just following examinations.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Candies, Toilet Articles, Kodaks
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

BASEBALL AND TRACK SEASON IS HERE
We have a full line of athletic supplies. Come down and get yours now.
STUDENT’S STORE
“It’s Yours---Why Not Patronize It.”

Into the making of this one cigarette goes all of the ability of the world’s largest organization of expert tobacco
men. The choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos. The most skillful blending. The most scientific package. No other cigarette made is
like Camels. Camels are the overwhelming choice of experienced smokers. Nothing is too good for Camels. No better cigarette can
be made.

©1926

When old grads drop in—and around the fire experiences of then are fondly retold—have a Camel!

When famed men return. And by dancing firelight they relate their stories of old—have a Camel! For Camel helps all
men who rise proudly to rise higher and more jauntily. Camels never harm or tire your taste, no matter how
plentifully you smoke them. You'll never find more friendly flavor than you get in Camels. So this night when those
from long ago return to think of the roads that join. As you see in their past your future unfold,
then zestfully taste the smoke that’s prized by the world’s experienced. Have a Camel!

Our highest wish, if you do not yet know Camel quality, is that you try them. We invite you to
compare Camels with any cigarette made at any price.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Winston-Salem, N. C.
