THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 8, 1927

Alumni Gather at Three Local Chapter Dinners To Talk Over Problems

Greensboro, Asheville, and Winston-Salem Alumni Now Well Organized and at Work

Demonstrating a commendable interest in the athletic and fraternity situation at the college, Davidson alumni in three Carolina cities gathered last week for meetings to discuss these and the other problems now confronting their Alma Mater. Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, and Harllee Branch, Jr., assistant alumni secretary, attended the meetings and led in the discussion of various topics connected with alumni and college work in general.

The first of the meetings was held at Greensboro, N. C., on Wednesday evening, when more than 20 Davidson alumni gathered at the Greensboro Country Club for a delightful dinner which had been arranged under the supervision of John W. McAlister, ’19, president of the Greensboro association. Lunsford Richardson, ’14, who was particularly interested in alumni sentiment on this issue, led in the discussion. Demonstrating a sincere and sympathetic interest in the athletic situation at the college, a number of the Greensboro alumni took occasion to stress the importance of better athletic teams and their value to the college. The alumni were unalterably opposed to any movement which might contemplate offering high school athletes monetary rewards or inducements for entering Davidson, and the opinion was universal that Davidson should never enter the market where high school athletes are bought and sold. It was pointed out, however, that alumni of the institution can do much in directing the attention of the high-type prep school athlete to Davidson, and that the entire future of the college as far as athletics were concerned depends upon the active interest of the alumni in this respect.

At Winston-Salem, the two officials of the alumni office called upon numerous Davidson alumni on Thursday and made arrangements for a meeting in the Camel City sometime in the near future. The Twin City is enthusiastically interested in the college and appeared to welcome the idea of a reorganization of their association which has been inert for some years.

A Carolina alumni chapter at Asheville was perfected Thursday evening at an enthusiastic meeting at the George Vanderbilt Hotel, following a banquet arranged under the direction of J. H. McConnell, Jr. Twenty-four Davidson alumni, from Black Mountain, Swannanoa, Biltmore, Hendersonville, and Asheville attended the meeting and took part in the interesting discussion of college problems which followed the dinner. Ruffner Campbell, ’10, was elected president of the new western North Carolina association; and J. H. Sample, '21, and J. H. McConnell, Jr., ’25 were selected to serve as vice-president and secretary respectively.

At Greenville, S. C., seventeen alumni gathered at the Woodside Grill Friday evening to reorganize their association which has been inactive for several years. Special interest was demonstrated by the alumni in the problems of fraternity houses at Davidson.

A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharge over 1,000 gallons of water in 30 minutes, or about 35 gallons in 60 seconds. No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our SPRINKLER LEAKAGE POLICY. The cost is a trifle compared with the protection.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY INSURANCE DEPARTMENT CHARLOTTE, N. C.

McALISTER CARSON (’13) Mer.

Let us mail a box VANITIES SETS KODAKS CANDIES --- Complete stock of highest quality Xmas morning PERFUME and SETS, 50c, $30.00 The kind they prefer FT. PENS and SETS also DESK CIGARS and CIGARETTES in Special Packages CARDS, TAGS, SEALS, TWINE and many other useful items We are glad to serve you

White Drug Co.

Personal

Rev. R. W. Miles, Presbyterian Church of Westminster, Lynchburg, Va., was on the campus. He was en route to his home from Georgia, where he had conducted services at the Berry Schools and the Darlington School for Boys at Home.

J. Caldwell McDonald, ‘15, head of a Charlotte automobile company operating service stations, has been elected president of the Charlotte Merchants Association. He was vice-president of the organization during the past year.

Rev. W. J. Garrison, D.D., ’08, connected with the synodical evangelistic force of Arkansas, will devote his time the next few months toward obtaining funds for a new church at Heber Springs, Ark., and will also preach for that congregation.

Grier Davis, ’27, is with the May Hosiery Mills at Burlington.

Kenneth Lewis, ’24, is now located at Knoxville, Tenn., with the National City Company.

W. B. Sloan, ‘26, is teaching in the high school at High Point, and H. H. Smith, of the same class, is with the Pomona High School, near Greensboro.

He makes broad terms with truth; he can remand furtive thoughts, and have canned, A scientist, an artist, esthete too; All trades are his to make the air flow blue. Abstract nonentities, bold and well defined, Become observabilities to the blind! Logic can serve him; still, it has its flaws; Philosophy, it seems, has its own laws (But formulate them not!) to lasso truth. Deterministic doctrine is uncouth. Aristotle fails us? Fichte gives the clue! Or bind Minerva’s foot in Hegel’s shoe. We growToo certain? Take a slice of Hume,
But not too much! Thus does he exhume;
Dissect and cancel, weigh and synthesize,
Slim, ‘em neatly a Growing in height before rapt students’ eyes;
He stands on Jesus’ feet, with legs pragmatic,
Belly sentient, and his bust Socratic—
A monster of mind; Small wonder that he can
Make arches of weak words, span;
Dovetail paradox, with subtle hands
Binding life up in elastic strands.
Its juice, squeezed out and sugared up, he serves
As chaste, meticulously kept, preserves.

E. P. Vollmer, In the Dartmouth Tower.

All gaps to Greenville alumni in the fiscal affairs of the college, and in the matter of Davidson’s claims in South Carolina. F. K. Spratt, '04, was re-elected president of the Greenville association and will serve in office until his successor is chosen at a meeting next spring. John I. Smith, ’24, will serve as vice-president and Rev. E. P. Davis, D.D., ’73, as secretary of the newly reorganized chapter.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

‘11, pastor of the Va., was a recent visitor to. has) The organization of a western North | changed his residence from New Market,| Military School, Asheville, Wy (G;, N. C,, and | Sixty Alumni From Half as Many Classes Attend Banquets in Carolinas

ALUMNI MARRIAGES
A number of state papers have carried announcements of the engagement and approaching marriage of Miss Sara Elizabeth Cutler, of New Bern, N.C., to Leon W. Ham, Jr., of Greensboro. The wedding will take place at the Centenary Methodist Church in New Bern on December 31, with the pastor, Dr. N. H. D. Wilson, officiating. Miss Cutler is the daughter of Mrs. L. H. Cutler, Jr., of Goldsboro, formerly of New Bern. She is one of the most charming, talented, and popular members of the younger social set. She studied at Greensboro College. Ham is in the real estate business with his father at Greensboro. He attended college both at Davidson and the University of North Carolina and was a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Sixty Davidson alumni representing thirty different classes attended meetings of local alumni associations in three Carolina cities last week, records in the alumni office reveal. The names and addresses of the alumni who attended the meetings, arranged according to classes, are as follows:

Class of 1873—Rev. E. P. Davis, D.D., Greenville, S. C.
Class of 1888—S. R. McKee, Bingham
Class of 1889—Dr. J. S. Brown, Sr., Hendersonville, N. C.
Class of 1891—Rev. S. M. Rankin, Greensboro, N. C.
Class of 1892—C. L. Grey, Hendersonville, N. C.
Class of 1896—W. A. Murray, Black Mountain, N. C.
Class of 1897—R. S. Eskridge, Swannanoa, N. C.
Class of 1899—Dr. L. G. Beall, Black Mountain, N. C.; Thos. W. Hall, Biltmore, N.C.
Class of 1900—James A. Winn, Greenville, S.C.
Class of 1901—T. D. Dupuy, Greensboro, N.C.
Class of 1903—H. A. Knox, Liberty, S.C.; C. N. Morrison, Whitsett, N. C.
Class of 1904—F. K. Spratt, Greenville, S. C.
Class of 1906—W. L. Grantham, Asheville, N. C.; Dr. B. R. Smith, Asheville, N. C.; H. T. Mills, Greenville, S. C.
Class of 1907—G. H. Croom, Asheville, N.C.
Class of 1909—F. W. Graham, Greenville, S. C.; C. Watkins, Black Mountain, N. C.; Charles F. Mayes, Greenville, S. C.
Class of 1910—Ruffner Campbell, Asheville, N. C.; Frank A. Sharpe, Greensboro, N. C.
Class of 1912—C. G. Lynch, Easley, S. C.; G. Crawford, Greensboro, N. C.; Eustace Lingle, Greensboro, N. C.; Mason L. Carroll, Jr., Greenville, S. C.
Class of 1914—Lunsford Richardson, Greensboro, N. C.; J. Max Hendrix, Greenville, S. C.
Class of 1915—M. G. Boswell, Greenville, S. C.; B. R. O'Neall, Greensboro, N. C.
Class of 1916—Dewitt Kluttz, Greenville, S. C.
Class of 1918—John C. Calhoun, Greensboro, N. C.; R. B. McKee, Asheville, N.C.
Class of 1919—J. W. McAlister, Greensboro, N. C.
Class of 1920—F. C. Morton, Asheville, N. C.; Dwight M. Chalmers, Greensboro, N. C.; Lacy L. McAlister, Greensboro, N. C.
Class of 1921—B. W. Romefelt, Asheville, N. C.; J. S. Brown, Jr., Hendersonville, N. C.; J. H. Sample, Asheville, N. C.
Class of 1924—John I. Smith, Greenville, N. C.; William H. Bogart, Greensboro, N. C.
Class of 1925—J. H. McConnell, Jr., Asheville, N. C.; B. G. Brown, Hendersonville, N. C.; W. A. McAulay, Greensboro, N. C.; Clayton S. Furchess, Greensboro, N. C.; T. B. Brown, Jr., Greensboro, N. C.; J. E. Singletary, Hendersonville, N. C.
Class of 1926—R. T. Carson, Hendersonville, N. C.; H. C. Lawson, Asheville, N. C.; Paul F. Causey, Greensboro, N. C.
Class of 1927—E. F. Bohannon, Asheville, N. C.; R. B. McConnell, Asheville, N. C.; L. D. Wharton, Jr., Greensboro, N. C.
Class of 1929—W. H. B. Simpson, Greenville, S. C.

Confidence
That feeling of being correctly dressed gives you the confident feeling of succeeding in every undertaking you seek to accomplish. We are proud to say that each and every patron of this establishment is correctly attired according to their particular needs before leaving our store. Our label in a garment is an assurance of correctness.

Tate-Brown Co.
Charlotte, N. C.