THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1927

Dr. C. R. Harding, Nestor of Davidson Faculty, Recollects Former Years

A glance at the faculty section of a current Davidson College catalogue will show you that Dr. Caleb Richmond Harding,
head of the Greek department, is the oldest faculty member in point of service. There is your evidence of the
quality of Doctor Harding's service. Doctor Martin, the president, indicates the quality of this thirty-nine-year span of service when he
terms Doctor Harding “the Davidson Nestor.” Nestor, you of course forget, was the wisest of the Grecian princes at the
siege of Troy. Homer extols his wisdom, justice, bravery, eloquence. But at this present sitting we shall deal mostly with
Doctor Harding’s reminiscences of the older days and his comments on the changes that have been gradually effecting these fifty
years he has been associated with Davidson—first as a student, then as a moulder of students.

Doctor Harding entered with the class of ’80 in the fall of 1876, the year of the Philadelphia Centennial. In
his class were some 30 men. Only 13 or 14 men left Davidson as finished products the following spring. In
those days hazing was still one of the popular college sports. And Doctor Harding happened to be the youngest Freshman.
“I can remember,” he says, “as vividly as if an event of yesterday, my hasty retreat from a campus dormitory
to the darkness of the outdoor world and the hollows of a woodpile near Elm Row.” The occasion of this
“hasty retreat” was a Soph smoker held especially in his honor. For sanctuary, he fled to the village church, where
choir practice was in progress.

“Campus rules were in force then. We were not permitted to leave the campus in the morning before dinner. And
demerits were given to anyone attempting to leave after the evening study bell. A trip to Charlotte would result in
the young criminal’s suspension. We Freshmen were occasionally allowed to ride, co-passengers with dirt and cross ties on the railroad
work car. That was a treat. I remember one ride down to what is now called, I believe, the eleven-mile
post. I don’t suppose students of today ride a freight to Mooresville when there are so many autos. But that
was our only way.

“Sharp rivalry existed between the literary societies. There were no social fraternities and the societies rushed new men as fraternities
do now. There was sometimes dislike and almost enmity. Practically every man in college became a member of a literary
society. Then, as probably now, the chief contribution of some members was the fines they paid.

“Election of the Chief Marshal and his assistants held a position of major importance in student life. A marshal bought
his own elegant silk regalia. Later he would give it to his best girl as a remembrance. Each man in
a society bought a small rosette of silk and willed it to his lady love.

“There were six members on the college faculty. And sixty was the passing grade.”

Speaking of mathematics in a monograph contributed to The Davidson College Magazine of May, 1912, Doctor Harding reveals his aversion
to all things mathematical. He writes, in part: “Since that day I have avoided all that touches it (mathematics) or
that appertains thereto as carefully as possible and only think of it as one of the old, forgotten far-off things
and battles long ago.”

A recent magazine makes mention of “the Bible belt.” Doctor Harding recalls that when he first returned to Davidson as
a professor, Doctor John Bunyan Shearer was entering upon his first term as Professor of Bible and President of the
college. Says Doctor Harding: “Doctor Shearer’s arrival marked the beginning of a new era in North Carolina education. For he
put Christian education on a higher plane by encouraging and helping in the extension of courses in English Bible. Doctor
Shearer himself called this work ‘putting the Bible on a pedestal.’”

Carolina’s re-opening drew some of Davidson’s student clientele in the years following Doctor Harding’s return as a Davidson professor in
the fall of 1888. Several years after his return, the faculty was compelled to yield to the pressure of student
opinion and sanction inter-collegiate athletic contests. By that time there had been built up some excellent teams in-class sports at
Davidson.

Fresh Divide Pair With Strong Team

Losing to the Oak Ridge Cadets and turning in a victory over the Bingham Military Academy were the contributions of
the Wildkitten basketball team for the week. Both games were played in the Davidson gym and were hotly contested. The
victory over the Bingham boys was 33-29, while the defeat at the hands of the Cadets was by the score
of 54-28.

The Bingham Game

Starting the game with a rush that lasted until the final whistle, the ‘Kittens nosed out the Bingham team by
the close score of 33 to 29. At the end of the first half, the teams were tied at 11-11.
The Davidson Yearlings started the second half with new vim and soon drew away from the prep schoolers, but during
the latter part of the game, this lead was threatened by the long shooting of the Bingham team. Captain Pritchett,
of Davidson, was the high point man of the contest, having 14 markers to his credit. Pushing him for these
honors was Mullin, of Bingham, with 13. The Wildkittens were strengthened by the re-

New Men Star in Spring Practice

Spring football, which has been going on for some time, will continue for at least four more weeks, but at
present rapid strides are being made toward rounding the men into form. The squad has been cut down from 80
to 50 men. They are working hard under the tutelage of Coach “Tex” in an effort to land a berth
on the varsity next fall. As yet Coach “Tex” has been unable to single out the men who will probably
comprise the varsity, but several men have distinguished themselves as theBest ground gainers, notably among whom are: Dick Grey, Dick
Flynn, Tommy James, and “Mutt” Nesbit. Up to date, no linesmen of outstanding ability have been uncovered, but some of
them show rare promise of future achievements. These men are all working. Two teams of the same weight and playing
ability have been selected; they are to be known as the Reds and Blacks. These two teams were scheduled to
have a practice game last Saturday, but it was postponed on account of rain. Next Saturday afternoon has been set
as the date on which the game will be played. The game will start at 2:15 sharp, if the weather
permits. It promises to be a contest of exciting interest as each man will be extending his utmost efforts to
make a good showing so that he will have a better chance to make the team next fall and help
win the state championship again for Davidson.

NOTED WILDCAT MENTORS
(Continued from page 1)

Davidson, after the close of the present college term. It was generally known that both coaches had received attractive offers
from a number of larger colleges following their triumphs of the 1926 football season, and there was considerable anxiety among
Davidson supporters as the beloved mentors refused to express their plans for the future. The five-year contract marks the first
time in the history of Davidson College that an athletic coach has been signed up for exceeding two years. Following
the extraordinary work of Younger and Tilson during their initial season at the head of Davidson athletics back in 1923,
the two coaches were approached with offers for future work with the Wildcats but refused to sign up for any
period of more than two years. Subsequent contracts have all been for periods of one or two years.

Arriving at Davidson at a time when athletics on the local campus were at a low ebb, the two former
V. P. I. athletes and coaches set to work building up a machine that in three years rose to the
pinnacle of achievement among North Carolina's “Big Five” teams, and walked off with the state championship last fall in a
season free from a single defeat. With meagre material, and a lack of weight and experience among the Davidson students,
Tilson and Younger faced a task that seemed fraught with hopelessness. Their triumphs during the past few years stand as
evidence of their extraordinary abilities.

Monk Younger and Tex Tilson face a task of building up a new machine next year. Graduation will leave wide
gaps in the line and backfield of the indomitable Wildcat machine; and the eyes of North Carolina sport scribes and
fans will be focused on Richardson Field next fall as the two mentors start out on the long grind of
a five-year contract.

Tramp—"Lady, could you give a starving man a bite?"
Lady—"Sure. Sic 'im Fido!"

The return of the regular guards, Baker and Mauze, who were unable to accompany them on their recent trip. Baker,
at standing guard, did some nice work, many times stopping Bingham rally under his goal.

The Oak Ridge Game
Captain Pritchett and his team were no match for the fast and smooth-working team of the Oak Ridge Institute. Jumping
into the lead at the beginning of the game, the Oak Ridge team presented the best teamwork of the game
and their lead was never threatened. This was the second victory for the Cadets over the Freshmen as they won
a tilt recently on their home court. Pierce with 17 points and Ferrell with 10 were high scorers for the
visitors. Pritchett led the Davidson team with 10 points. The line-up for Davidson in these games was: Forwards, Captain Pritchett
and Johnston; center, Smith; guards, Baker and Mauze. Moore, Prevost, and McGavock were used as substitutes.

DR. ELLIS
(Continued from page 1)

The hills of Nazareth, Bethlehem, the synagogue at Capernaum, central spots in Palestine are now fallen from their former state
of civilization. A few Bedouins and wild goats are the sole inhabitants of these regions. Jerusalem, shrine of human hearts,
holds many treasures within rocky recesses, and was characterized by the speaker as a veritable mine of secrets which will
startle the world when the fanaticisms of man will permit their exploration. Even the Ark of the Covenant may be
found hidden away by some old monk.

Traveling southward, the author next visited the site of the Israelites’ wanderings. The traditional site of Kadesh-Barnea was found not
to tally with Biblical description. Accordingly, Dr. Ellis with his companions discovered the true site of Kadesh. On their wanderings,
the members of the party were much annoyed by attacks of Arabian bandits. The French policy of imperialism and oppression
has aroused the hatred of all foreigners, which fact endangers lives and property. At one time, Dr. Ellis and party
were in serious danger of being killed or captured.

Passing rapidly over his experiences in Ur of Chaldees, Shushan, and Persepolis, Dr. Ellis brought his hearers, after a most
delightful journey, back to the Mediterranean, the starting point of his travels.

“The great campus sport of the time was informal shinney. That was the chief source of exercise.” These notes on
a short interview with Doctor Harding deal only with the interesting details of college life as it was lived 40
or 50 years ago. But, after all, these interesting details are the very forces which give rise to the combined
intellectual-emotional quality known all over as “The Wildcat Spirit.” Doctor Harding remembers the older days as pleasant experiences, but he
keeps abreast with the present to such an extent that he is now called “the Davidson Nestor.”

The world’s finest cigarette tobaccos—and every bit of natural character retained! Natural tobacco taste at its mild and mellow best—there’s
nothing to beat that!
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
