THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 24, 1927

Gaston Alumni Arrange to Honor Wildcat Team at Post-Season Banquet

Orators of Football Banquet Idea Will be Hosts to Gridders and Coaches Saturday

The Davidson College football team, following a custom inaugurated several years ago, will be entertained at a banquet arranged in their honor by members of the Gaston County Alumni Association in the private dining room of the Armington Hotel, Gastonia, on Saturday evening. This is the first of a series of entertainments being planned for the Wildcat gridders by interested alumni throughout the state.

More than two score alumni, residing in or near Gastonia, will attend the banquet, in addition to members of the Davidson football team, members of the Davidson faculty, representatives of the alumni office, and representatives of the Charlotte Alumni Association. An appropriate program, including brief addresses by members of the Gaston Association, the Davidson coaches, and members of the football team, has been arranged for the occasion.

Invitations have been sent to all alumni by Mr. Coit M. Robinson, president, and Mr. Hugh A. Query, secretary, of the Gaston Association. Special interest is being manifested in the banquet in view of the fact that the Gaston alumni were the first to establish the custom of post-season dinners for the football team more than five years ago, and are always the first to entertain the Wildcat moleskin wearers following the close of the football season.

CHARLOTTE. KNOXVILLE. ATLANTA (Soon)

S & W Cafeterias are catering to you

Edinburgh Scholarship

Rev. John W. Groves, ’22 is One of Four Seminary Students Entering Edinburgh

Among four Louisville Theological Seminary graduates entering Edinburgh University to pursue post-graduate studies this fall was Rev. John W. Groves, graduate of Davidson College in the class of 1922. Groves entered Davidson from Kosciusko, Miss., and was a student of great capabilities and notable attainments. From Davidson, he went to Louisville Theological Seminary, from which he was graduated in the spring of 1926.

He was awarded the Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Webb Fellowship in Hebrew and Old Testament Exegesis, the fellowship being awarded to the best student in the Senior class of the Seminary in Hebrew and Old Testament Exegesis. Since his graduation in 1926, he has served as supply pastor in various churches in western Kentucky and also in his native state of Mississippi.

A recent issue of the Louisville Seminary Register carried Rev. Mr. Groves’ photograph and an article telling of his enrollment at Edinburgh University. Friends and former Davidson classmates will be glad to learn of his successes.

Newspaper dispatches have been encouraging in their report of the condition of Irvin Vance, who suffered a fractured skull in an automobile accident last Friday. Mr. Vance is a brother of H. L. Vance, ’26.

ASHEVILLE. RALEIGH.

SUITS AND TOPCOATS

Not in several years has $40 bought so much in fabric and tailoring. As for the style---the models are designed especially to please the university man. $40 Buys a splendid suit or overcoat. Others $35 up.

Tate-Brown Co.

Davidson Graduate Wins

Dr. Summey, Alumnus of Davidson, Accepts Chair of Theology at Austin

From Janitorship at Asheville to Professorship at Austin

BRILLIANT CAREER

Is Lauded by Southern Newspapers for Work

Announcement was made in last week's issue of The Presbyterian Standard that Rev. George Summey, D.D., graduate of Davidson College in the class of 1870, had been granted leave of absence from his pastorate in New Orleans in order to assume the duties of professor of theology at Austin Seminary, Austin, Texas, during the time that the occupier of that chair is recovering from an illness. In making editorial comment anent this appointment, the editor of The Standard remarked, “We have followed his course with admiration and interest, and we have never detected a false note in any of his utterances, whether in pulpit or press. In these days of erratic doctrinal stars in the theological firmament, we congratulate the seminary that they have secured a man sound in the faith, a winner of souls, a successful pastor and a man whose heart is full of the love of God.”

Dr. Summey’s career since he graduated from Davidson College has been a brilliant one, compelling southern-wide interest. He obtained his master of arts degree here, graduated from Union Theological Seminary and held various pastorates in Kentucky, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, and for the past 24 years has been in New Orleans. In addition to his pastoral services, he has been Moderator of theGeneral Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church, editor of the Theological Review of Richmond for 15 years, editor of the Southwestern Presbyterian of New Orleans for eight years, and was formerly president of Southwestern Presbyterian University. He was given the doctor of divinity degree by Davidson. During the past summer he visited his old home in Asheville and preached from the pulpit of the First Presbyterian Church of that city, where he had served in another capacity more than half a century ago. The graphic account of his career, with a picture of Dr. Summey as he is today, appeared in The Asheville Citizen, and is partly given below as a tribute to a man who has risen to such great heights:

“The barefooted, freckle-faced boy, who more than a half century ago was janitor of the First Presbyterian Church, today has come home to preach from its pulpit.

“In the lapse of all these years he has mounted the steps of success and today is pastor of one of the greatest churches in the South—the Third Church of New Orleans.

“He has occupied that church for 24 years. Three years ago he was Moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church of the South.

“The South knows the barefooted janitor boy now as Dr. Summey.... It will interest Asheville folk to know that it was here he obtained the basic knowledge which has since carried him up to be both a great preacher and a great editor. For 15 years he served as editor of the Theological Review of Richmond and New York, and for eight years editor of the Southwestern Presbyterian of New Orleans.

“Dr. Summey was president of the college in which Woodrow Wilson’s father held the chair of theology. It was the Southwestern Presbyterian University in Clarksville, Tennessee.”

Jack—“Have you heard the new swan song?”
Will—“Why, no.”
Jack—“Ha, that’s swan on you.”—Virginia Reel.

He—“It’s strange that the biggest fools always manage to get out with the most beautiful girls.”
She—“Oh, you flatterer.”—Ashland Collegian.

Barefoot, Freckle-Faced Boy Climbs

occurred in Winston-Salem, Monday.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Friends of Col. F. H. Fries, '74, and H. E. Fries, ’78, were grieved to learn this week of the death of their brother, J. W. Fries, which occurred in Winston-Salem, Monday.

Rev. H. A. Scott, Fort Smith, Ark. 16, 2443 Sharon St., Howard Moss, ex-’25, has recently been elected temporary chairman of a committee which is undertaking the establishment of a permanent alumni association of the Atlanta Tech High School, and is in charge of arrangements for an organization meeting and banquet, according to newspaper items appearing in the Atlanta papers.

J. H. Carson, ’16, of Charlotte, has been elected grand correspondent of the Forty and Eight of the North Carolina Department of the American Legion. State newspapers recently carried accounts of the beautiful celebration of the golden anniversary of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams, of Mooresville, parents of S. Clay Williams, '05, of Winston-Salem. Dr. J. Y. Templeton, '09, of Mooresville, is a son-in-law of Mr. and Mrs. Williams.

Several Davidson ministers have recently changed their places of residence following the acceptance of new pastorates. New addresses for those noted are:
Rev. W. P. Chedester, '01, Montreat.
Rev. C. D. Holland, ’10, Fallston, Md.
Rev. W. B. Sullivan, ’20, Monticello, Ark.

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Founded 1847
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS:
R. A. DUNN, President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
A. G. T. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
Charlotte, N. C.
CREDENZA, $300.00
213 N. Tryon St.

A COMPLETE LINE OF DRUGS AND SUNDRIES
WHITE DRUG CO.

RUINED A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharge over 1,000 gallons of water in 30 minutes, or about 5 gallons in 60 seconds. No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our SPRINKLER LEAKAGE POLICY. The cost is a trifle compared with the protection.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr.
M. S. SPEIR, JR. ('20)