THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1927

1st Inebriate—“Aren’t you afraid you’ll freeze there in that gutter? You’re too fresh!”

2nd Inebriate—“Huh? Got too much alcohol in my radiator.”

Beatrice, as she fell on a piece of glass—“I’m cutting quite a figure,” cried She—“You tickle me, Walter.”

Davis—“My, what a strange request.”

Little Willie—“Father, what is the difference between obstinacy and firmness?”

Father—“It’s a matter of sex, my son.”

McDermid—“We had some honeymoon salad at our boarding house today.”

Pritchett—“What kind is that?”

McDermid—“Lettuce alone.”

She—“How much do you measure around the waist?”

Bishop—“As often as I can.”

A dog to pet, a cat to purr, A parrot to talk; Me—What do I need a man for?

Leggette—“Dear, why did you fall for me?”

Enamoured One—“Well, your line was just low enough to trip on.”

1st Prof.—“They tell me that brunettes are of a more lovable disposition than blondes.”

2nd Prof.—“Well, my wife has both and I can’t see any difference.”

(We are indebted to one of our “fairer friends” for the following little lyric. We are glad to know that all the sarcasm of today is not heaped upon the female tribe, and we submit to the biting words of this accusation with a feeling of guilt.)

I Doubt It

When a pair of red lips are up-turned to your own, Do you pray for endurance to let them alone? Well, maybe you do, but I doubt it.

When a shy little hand you're permitted to hold, With a velvety softness about it, Do you think you can drop it, with never a squeeze? Well, maybe you can, but I doubt it.

When a wonderful waist is in reach of your arm, With a beautiful plumpness about it, Do you argue the point, twixt the good and the harm, Well, maybe you do, but I doubt it.

And if by these tricks, you should capture a heart, With a womanly sweetness about it, Will you guard it, and act the good part, Well, maybe you will, but I doubt it.

—J.V.C.

“Lux against us,” said the Gold Dust twins to Grandma washing powder.

Dear little suitor, Don't you cry, You'll be her hubby By and by.

Vaughn—“You live so far back that the night owls yell themselves to death waiting for the light of day.”

Hudging—“Yes, but I don’t have to go toward town every time I want to go possum hunting.”

She had just been kissed. “You mean thing,” she said with rage. “You'll have to pay for treating me this way. I'll tell my father and he’ll—”

“But dear—”

“Sh-h-h-h, there he comes now.”

Dan Currie—“I believe I have electricity in my hair.”

Taylor—“Sure, it’s connected with a dry cell.”

She—“And were you true to me when you were away?”

He—“Yes, dear. Every time I kissed another I imagined it was you.”

1st Prof.—“I had a funny experience the other night.”

2nd Prof.—“How was that?”

1st Prof.—“I got home and found my wires crossed. The radio was frozen solid and the ice box was singing, ‘A cup of coffee, a sandwich and you.’”

STUDIES AND ACTIVITIES (Continued from page 4)

The practical contact with the world, with the sound theory of the classroom. The usefulness of these activities would be greatly enhanced if contact on the other side could be made. College would then have a real place in tying up the experience of past ages with present practical life, and people might learn from attending college some of the things they now have to learn from long and painful personal experience in their own lives. College students sometimes facetiously remark, “The trouble with Bill is that he is letting his studies interfere with his education!” It is in the vision of Stanford’s dean of women to reconcile curricular and extracurricular activity so that one will round out the other in place of in- terfering. She believes that...the interfering with it. Classes in English and playwriting can be more closely tied up with the publication and the stage, in the same way that the class in theater workshop at Stanford now combines theory with the practical aspects of arranging settings and putting on plays; and that the engineering departments can plan and oversee the execution of campus projects after the manner in which the stadium, one of Stanford’s most successful undertakings, was planned by a Stanford professor of engineering. The idea is, in a way, an extension of the “project method” of the secondary schools. This close co-operation of the curriculum with practical activities will not come suddenly, she says, by means of a presidential fiat, or a sudden change in policy of the board of trustees, but is even now in process of evolution. Tendencies toward it are noticeable in various colleges. “There is a very definite movement,” declares Miss Yost, “toward a curriculum which will make for a close co-operation of experiments and student activities and make the university a laboratory for better living.” — Science Monitor.

DEBATING SCHEDULE
(Continued from page 1)

Christian should be modified.” Davidson will uphold the negative. Freshmen will be given an opportunity to debate with teams from Carolina about May 1st, in dual debates. One team from each college will debate at each place and the query will probably be, “Resolved, That uniform marriage and divorce laws should be adopted by the United States through national legislation.” These debates will call for three freshmen on each team. Two men will be selected for each team and the same team will debate both Johns Hopkins and Duke. The preliminaries will be held as follows: Johns Hopkins, March 1st; Emory, March 4th; Northern trip, March 8th; and Sewanee, March 22nd. Freshman debates will be announced at a later time. All men who intend to try out for one of these debates are requested to see either Henry Powell or Don Wharton at once.

AT THE night sessions, when class philosophers vie with class Merry Andrews in deciding the heavy problems of the world—or burlesquing them—notice the royal guest, Prince Albert. Chiming in with the spirit of the occasion. Filling the air with the finest tobacco aroma ever. Do you smoke Prince Albert? It will bring you more pleasure and satisfaction than you ever thought a pipe could give. The instant you throw back the hinged lid and release that wonderful P. A. fragrance, you suspect you are in for some grand smoke sessions. The very first pipe-load confirms your suspicions. Cool as a gate-tender. Sweet as the weekend reprieve. Mild as the coffee in Commons—mild, yet with a full body that satisfies your smoke-taste completely. Get yourself a tidy red tin this very day, PRINCE ALBERT—no other tobacco is like it!

© 1927, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

When the plutarchs start plutarching P. A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tins, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.

Everything a good Drug Store can supply
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

CREDENZA, $300.00
DAVIDSON, N. C.

SPRING CLOTHES
Storrs-Schaefer Co.
EU HALL
THURSDAY and FRIDAY
FEBRUARY 23-24
MURCHISON & COVINGTON

FELLOWS!
You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station

VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
The New ORTHOPHONIC