~ THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 24, 1927 No. 11

Duke Blue Devils Meet ’Cats in Final Battle Football Field for Final Time Today

Six Letter Men From 1926 Champions Included

WEARN ALREADY OUT

Most of Graduates Are Sons of North Carolina—Other States Claim Five

When the game ends this afternoon it will be more than the end of the season for the Wildcats, for then 13 men will be through with their life of service to the team. Some have made their letter, some will make it this season, and the rest will not make a letter in football but will be content with a consciousness of service well spent. Of these 13 men who make their final bow in the Davidson uniform, six are letter men of last year and the year before last. Practically the entire first-string backfield will be graduated—Dick Grey, Mutt Nisbet, and Charlie Harrison. From the line, Hugh Arrowood, Fats Laws, and Jim Grey, of last year’s letter men, will be lost. The other seven men who will be lost to next year’s team are Lewis McColgan, Piggy Wearn, Dunc McEachern, Paul Maulden, Pat Harmon, English McGeochy, and Camper O’Neal. Piggy Wearn, diminutive end, gave his last in the Carolina game, when he was carried off the field at Kenan Stadium with a broken leg. Three backfield men found among the list of those who will be missing next year when the initial call is sounded for football practice are, Captain Dick Grey, halfback, and all-state star; Mutt Nisbet, fullback, and Charlie Harrison, halfback, leaving only Ed Wilson, (Continued on page 2)

Three-Fold Honesty Commended by Speaker

Charlotte Rector Brings Message at Vesper Service

The Reverend Dr. Walker, rector of St. Peter’s Church, of Charlotte, gave an able and stimulating address at the “Y” Vesper services Sunday night, November 20th. Dr. Walker came in the place of Bishop E. A. Penick, who was expected to speak here, but who was called away by an unforeseen circumstance. As his text Dr. Walker took the fifteenth verse of the eighth chapter of Luke: “And that in the good ground, these are such as in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, hold it fast, and bring forth fruit with patience.” Dr. Walker developed this topic by using the thought that honesty of deed and thought is the true foundation upon which the edifice of our character is built and without which that character would be like a building without a solid base. His speech was in substance: Honesty in business involves the carrying out of sincerity in its entirety. However, honesty for a Christian has more to it than the commercial side, and is measured in greater figures than dollars and cents, for the most necessary requisite is for Christ’s followers to be absolutely sincere in heart and deed. Thus, Christian honesty includes honesty with ourselves, and with our God. Honesty with ourselves means clear and direct thinking to a conclusion. We may not think correctly, but we can think honestly. There may be three conditions within us that keep us from clear and direct thinking. They (Continued on page 6)

National Record is Held by Freshman

The intelligence tests conducted recently among the members of the Freshman class revealed some interesting facts, most notable of which was M. W. Norfleet’s score of 215 points out of a possible 220. This score shatters the world record of 214, held jointly by D. H. Howard, of Davidson, and a student at the University of Washington. The tests as a whole resulted in scores higher than the average, being 15 points higher than the average of last year’s Freshman class. Many students in this class scored around and above 200 points. Very few failed to make respectable grades; consequently this class with a high general result and narrow range shows up extremely well. Intelligence tests were introduced into Davidson College through the efforts of Dr. Hood. The new requirements for Freshmen were first placed under the Psychology Department of Education, with which work it is more closely related. Yearly tests have revealed a gradual upward trend in the marks made by Davidson entrants. This fact, added to the showing made this year, speaks well for the system of selective registration now being attempted in order to admit only students capable of passing college work. (Continued on page 2)

Win I. R. C. Bids

Four men, three Juniors and one Senior, were bid this week to the International Relations Club. These men were chosen from a field of ten who were asked to write papers on subjects of their own choice concerning international politics and history. The men chosen were B. W. Dickson, ’28, whose paper was entitled “The Decline of Bolshevism in Russia;” W. L. Dumas, ’29, who wrote “For a Better Understanding Between English Speaking People;” T. E. Hill, '29, writing on “German War Guilt;” Fred Ratchford, '29, whose paper was about, “Italy Today.” These men are to be initiated Friday, November 25. The International Relations Club is a national organization having chapters throughout the United States. Its purpose is to discuss and create interest in international policies and current history. The method of choosing members is according to merit. A group of any desired number of men are chosen and requested, if they are interested, to write a theme on a subject of universal interest. From this group a certain number of men are chosen by the excellence of their submitted paper. The Davidson chapter consists of 15 members of the two upper classes. Seniors: H. B. Arbuckle, Jr., W. B. Bradford, J. M. Akers, C. C. Trabue, F. D. Daniel, Tyree Dillard, President, J. P. McKnight, D. W. Hancock, and B. F. Martin. Juniors: J. R. Covington, M. T. Gilmour, R. C. Grady, J. R. Graham, E. R. McConnell, W. K. Pritchett. The Sophomore contingent will be added on the spring bid day. It has been a custom of the club to obtain speakers of international reputation and send them on a circuit of the different sub-organizations. Last year a German, member of Germany’s War Board, spoke in chapel. The club expects to procure another speaker some time during the spring.

Thirteen Men Represent College on Juniors and Seniors—

TURKEY DAY OPPONENTS

Duke Backfield

Duke Line

Mountain Institute to Receive Student Funds

Elect Officers at Forensic Meeting

At the annual meeting of the North Carolina Intercollegiate Forensic Association, November 5th, at High Point College, High Point, N. C., the list of officers for the coming yearwas headed by Henry Powell, of Davidson, as president of the association. Among the other business transacted at the meeting was the setting of the time and place for the annual oratorical contest. Davidson was chosen as the place and the time was set for late March of the coming year. The association is composed of Wake Forest, Elon, Guilford, N. C. State, Lenoir-Rhyne, Davidson, High Point College, and Atlantic Christian College. The students of these colleges who are interested in forensic matters and who belong to forensic organizations form the active members of the association. The oratorical contest is the chief feature of the activities of the organization and is usually the object of a great deal of interest and attention. Practically all the schools in the state are members except the University and Duke, and with the entrance of Duke, the contest this year will probably prove to be even better than usual and will attract a great deal of attention in the forensic circles of the North Carolina colleges. One man from each school can compete in the March contest. These men are chosen from preliminary try-outs held at each school. The winner of the state contest competes in a sectional contest, from which the winner goes to the national contest. The prizes for the winners of the North Carolina contest are two medals: a gold one for the winner, and a silver one for second place. Last year, the gold medal was won by Obervitch, from North Carolina State. He came out victorious in the sectional contest and took first place in the national contest. This is another reason for interest in the North Carolina orators, for the state holds the national prize at present, and many think (Continued on page 3)

“Y” Cabinet, Orphanage, Schools and Hospital at Banner Elk Are Selected as Recipient of Contribution

At a recent meeting of the “Y” cabinet, a decision was reached which will, according to the officials, be of great importance in its program for this year. The cabinet decided that the money donated in this year’s mission campaign will be given to the Christian institutions connected with the Banner Elk Orphanages, in the mountains of Western North Carolina. This decision was made in view of the return from China of Warren Cox, who has been supported for the past four years by the Davidson student body. Cox was situated at Hangchow, being an instructor in chemistry in Christian College. The “Y” Cabinet found it necessary to find another cause which was both worthy and in need of assistance from the local association. A deputation consisting of Jim Appleby, Charles McRae, Julian Lake, Boyce Martin, Howard Arbuckle, and Carter Rowe, went to Banner Elk to survey the needs of the institution. A favorable report was made and it was decided that the “Y” would help support the work there. The institutions at this place are: the Lees-McRae Institute, which is a girls’ preparatory school; the Plumtree Boys’ School, the Grandfather Orphanage, and the Grace Hospital. These make up what is recognized as the greatest mountain mission project in North Carolina. Grace Hospital is reputed to be the finest hospital to be found in the mountain districts anywhere in the United States. Lees-McRae Institute was founded by Edgar Tufts, Sr., whose place as supervisor was taken at his death by his son, Edgar Tufts, Jr., who is a prominent and popular Davidson graduate of the class of ’22, and who was initiated in the local chapter of O. D. K. last spring. The money sent by the Davidson students will, among other things, be used to establish a scholarship fund for the mountain boys. (Continued on page 2)

Richardson Field Scene of Last Game Between N. C. Conference Teams

Result Will Decide Position in Lower Bracket

CAROLINA CHANGES DOPE

Davidson Men Listed Among Injured, But Ten-Day Rest is Aid to Squad

The final curtain will be dropped on the 1927 football season, on Richardson Field, this afternoon when the Davidson Wildcats engage the Duke University Blue Devils in the annual Thanksgiving game. It will be a fight in the lower bracket of the Big Five series, as both teams have been eliminated from the championship race. The vaunted Blue Devils who set the woods on fire in their early season encounters, suffered a setback in Saturday's game when the University of North Carolina downed them by a count of 18-0. Likewise, Davidson got off to a good start this season, but has had a reversal of form for the past three games. Duke was doped to win from the Tar Heels, but their greatest bet, Jankoski, was stopped dead in his tracks in this game, and the remainder of the team could not bear his burden. The Tar Heels, carrying on a spirit that they opened up against Davidson, ran rings around the Methodist team. The Wildcats have had a large list of injuries during the present season that has hampered their style to a great extent. Piggy Wearn, Wildcat end of small stature, along with Ed Wilson, quarterback, are the latest additions to the list. Wearn is out for the season and Wilson has been out of practice (Continued on page 6)

Chairman Appointed for Junior Week Activities

Members of Various Committees Chosen Soon

Looking to a successful Junior Program in the spring, Mac King, president of the Junior class, has appointed the chairman for the various committees. Each chairman will select his committee within the next few weeks and a definite plan will fill the outline for the Junior festivities. After abandoning the extravagant customs of previous third-year men in staging an elaborate and expensive program, the class of '29, having carefully considered the question, have struck upon a plan which shows radical innovations over the former programs. Members of the class selected as chairmen are as follows: Bob Covington, Dramatics; Bob Kell, Reception; W. K. Pritchett, Oratorical; and Raymond Lake, Junior Week Publication. Nelson Myers, Secretary and Treasurer of the class, is chairman of the permanent committee on Finances. The prospective date for the Junior gaieties is April 27-29. The oratorical contest will be held in Shearer Hall on Friday evening, the 27th. Saturday afternoon a baseball game will be played on the local diamond and immediately following this a reception will be held on the front campus, with the faculty, student body, and visitors as guests. The most interesting part of the Junior Week Program should be the dramatic performance in Shearer Hall on Saturday night. In all probability, three one-act plays will be (Continued on page 2)