[He VAVIDSONian, MAY 5, 1927]

Best Drilled Squad and Platoon Picked From a School Unit in Competitive Drill

Public Initiation of New Reporters Held Monday
Nineteen Neophytes Hold Beauty Contest During Game

“B” Company’s second platoon has covered itself with honor this year by winning both the Squad Competition and the Platoon
Drill. Lieutenant Mitchell and his men put out some very creditable drills. Gilmour, the corporal of the second squad, and
his squad displayed an almost perfect performance. The Competitive Drill is run off in this manner: for the squad competition,
the best squad in each platoon, then in each company, is picked by the officers of that company. These squads
then represent their companies in the semi-finals, which are judged by four army officers, Captain Weems, Captain Dougherty, Captain Elkins,
and Lieutenant Beckett. The major and adjutant of the battalion also serve as judges.

The Second Squad of the First Platoon of Company “A,” with Corporal Boyd commanding; the Second Squad of the Second
Platoon of “B” Company, with Corporal Gilmour commanding; the Second Squad of the Third Platoon of “C” Company, with Corporal
Maddox commanding; and the First Squad of the First Platoon of “D” Company, with Corporal Regen commanding, were selected as
the semi-finalists. The second squad of the third platoon of “C” Company, with Corporal Maddox commanding, and the second squad
of the second platoon of “B” Company, with Corporal Gilmour commanding, were picked for the finals. In the competition between
these two, “B” Company’s squad won.

In the platoon competition, the best platoon of each company was picked by the officers of their respective companies. The
First Platoon of “A” Company, with Lieutenant Webb commanding; the Second Platoon of “B” Company, with Lieutenant Mitchell commanding; the
First Platoon of “C” Company, with Lieutenant Frierson commanding; and the Second Platoon of “D” Company, with Lieutenant King commanding,
were chosen for the semi-finals. In the finals, Lieutenant Mitchell’s Second Platoon of “B” Company won out. The prize for
winning the platoon drill will be this year, as last, a cup. This cup is to be on the same
order as those given the captains of each company, only a bit smaller. Corporal Gilmour will be given a gold
medal and each member of his squad will be given a gold bar.

The announcement of the best company for the year has not yet been made, nor have next year’s officers been
commissioned, though both are expected to be made public very shortly. It may be remembered by some that the Squad
Drill was won by the fourth squad of the third platoon of Company “D,” with Corporal McCrary commanding. Lieutenant Houston,
commanding the first platoon of Company “A,” won the Platoon Competitive Drill last year and “C” Company for the second
year won the title of the best company of the Battalion.

Queens College is Host to Debaters

Next Tuesday night, May 10, Davidson will meet Sewanee in one of the most important forensic contests of the year.
The debate will be held in Charlotte, at the chapel of Queens College, and the time has been set at
8:00 o’clock. The debate was to take place on May 2, but as the college was unable to get the
chapel on that night, the date was postponed. The query for discussion is: Resolved, That the Volstead Act should be
repealed. Davidson will debate the negative and is to be represented by W. A. Christian, of Mobile, Ala., and Tyree
Dillard, of Greensboro.

Christian was president of the Eumenean Literary Society and is prominent in forensic activities. He is a member of Alpha
Phi Epsilon, national honorary forensic fraternity. As president of the Y. M. C. A. he has been very close to
the life on the campus, and is best known by his connection with this work. While this is his first
time to debate on the varsity team, his ability as a speaker is well recognized. Christian is a member of
the Gamma Delta Fraternity.

Dillard represented Davidson on the Freshman team against Wake Forest year before last and won a unanimous decision. He, also,
is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon and is recognized as one of the college’s outstanding debaters. His previous experience
has given him a wide reputation and well prepared him for a place on the varsity team. He is also
a member of the Phi Gamma Delta Social Fraternity.

Judges for the debate have not as yet been appointed, but will be announced in the next issue.Her official name,
“Miss Mitchell.” Miss long since Queen of Love and Beauty at Mitchell College, and was entered at once when of
this. She was in a sense a “dark horse,” being from a comparatively small institution, but her face and figure
swept all before them, so that her selection was greeted with storms of applause when announced.

Seniors Selected as Class Orators

Final preparations are now being made for the Senior Class Day which will be held May 30, the day before
the concluding exercises in the church. To this end, the class of '27 selected last Tuesday morning as their class
day orator, Harllee Branch, Jr.; class day valedictorian, L. D. Wharton, Jr.; and class day salutatorian, W. T. Covington. In
the class meeting held Tuesday morning in Shearer Hall, the names of the following men were submitted by the nominating
committee: Clanton Williams, Don Wharton, Greer Davis, W. T. Covington, Gordon McCutcheon, and Harllee Branch. Those selected will take part
in the regular class day exercises which will be modeled after the commencement exercises of the following day. At this
time, the principal addresses will be made by the above-mentioned students and will be one of the main features of
the commencement week program.

Reynolds Tobacco, Winston-Salem, N. C.

WHEN my father was in college, “Put that in your pipe and smoke it!” was considered snappy. I’m ready to
take this old line literally when the talk centers around Prince Albert. Because when it comes to deep-down satisfaction in
a smoke, it’s got everything! Fragrant as a pine forest. Think up your own similes. You'll write them all in
the column headed ‘Superlative Degree” when you learn the joys of a jimmy-pipe and Prince Albert. If you don’t know
this grand old smoke, come around to my room and I'll give you a load.

PRINCE ALBERT — no other tobacco is like it! P. A. makes two of what I wide. P. A. is
the money. P. A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors
with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.

In the regular commencement exercises, several noted speakers have been procured by President Wm. J. Martin. Among them are Judge
W. P. Stacy, of Raleigh, and Rev. J. L. McMillan, of Norfolk, Va. Judge Stacy, Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of North Carolina, will deliver the literary address to the graduates, the undergraduates, and their friends on the night
of May 31. Rev. J. L. McMillan, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Norfolk, Va., will preach the
Baccalaureate Sermon, Sunday morning, May 29th. The “Y” officers have not yet secured a speaker to preach the annual sermon,
but when he has been selected, the roster of the speakers will be complete.

“Miss Mitchell” wore an entrancingly close-fitting bathing suit (courtesy M. H. Goodrum & Co.), with shoes and cap to match,
and the rather unusual addition of a three days growth of beard instead of rouge and lipstick.

An unfortunate incident of the afternoon was the appearance on the scene of an importunate tailor of Jewish proclivities. Singling
out from among the bystanders one of his customers who had apparently been overlong in paying his bills, he demanded
either payment of the bill in question or the return of certain articles of wearing apparel on the spot. The
customer, being entirely insolvent, was forced to separate himself from the garments in the presence of a “cloud of witnesses”
and to retire from the scene in disgrace.

This public initiation of the Reporters’ (Continued on page 6)

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Founded 1847
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

WHOLESALE
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

HOW LONG HAS IT BEEN SINCE YOU CHECKED UP ON YOUR INSURANCE?
Are you absolutely sure you are protected—that your policies cover the present value of your property? How about your home,
your personal belongings, your place of business, your stock of merchandise, your automobile, your garage? Let this agency help you
determine your insurance values.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr.
M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)

LANCE
Quality Products Delivered same day made. All dealers
LANCE PACKING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
