THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. XIV FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 7, 1927 No. 25

Special Maneuvers and Review Feature Climactic Day in Year’s Military Work

Company “C” Attacks and Captures Imaginary Enemy

INTEREST IS HIGH

Afternoon is Given Over to Rigid Inspection and Review of Battalion

The climax in the military activities of the year of the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit is reached this
week with a varied program of maneuvers and parades by the entire battalion. The activities of the week are confined
for the most part to two days, Monday and Wednesday, on both of which days Davidson is honored by visits
of distinguished army and state officials. On Monday afternoon, April 4th, a delegation of visitors to the inspection of the
Charlotte National Guards came to Davidson to observe a review put on by the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit.
Among this group of visitors were several army notables who head the military organizations of North Carolina and the fourth
corps area of which this unit of the R. O. T. C. is a part. The review was the only
one made of the battalion by the visitors. Today the R. O. T. C. unit is being inspected by the
War Department Board of Officers. This inspection is to determine whether or not Davidson will be designated in the War
Department orders and publications as one of the distinguished colleges. Davidson won the distinguished rating last year and if this
honor is earned again the insignia won last year will become permanent. Davidson is the only North Carolina school that
has ever earned this distinction.

This morning’s drill was featured by a tactical problem carried out by “C” Company with Captain Green commanding. In this
maneuver Captain Green’s company attacked and captured an imaginary enemy position. The infantry troops were aided in this attack by
the fire of two machine guns.

(Continued on page 6)

Pritchett and Grady of Davidson Lose to Emory

A Davidson debating team bowed in defeat for the first time this year when Emory University invaded the Wildcat’s lair
on last Wednesday night. The debate was held before a small crowd in Shearer Hall, at 8:00 P.M. W. W.
Pritchett and R. C. Grady were Davidson's representatives, with W. I. Dumas as alternate. Wallace M. Alston and Glenn M.
Elliott were the visitors from Emory.

The subject of the debate was, Resolved, That the United States should recognize the Soviet Government as the de jure
government of Russia, Emory upholding the affirmative and Davidson the negative of the query. Dr. W. J. Martin presided and
made a short address of welcome to the visiting team. The judges were J. R. Robinson, Edgar Pharr, and T.
A. Adams. The affirmative speakers, Elliott and Alston, laid particular stress on the stability of the Soviet Government as proved
by its continued existence for ten years, that it had not attempted plots against other governments, and on evidences of
its good faith as shown in the Cannes and Genoa Conferences. The negative, Grady and Pritchett, besides refuting arguments of
the affirmative, brought out the fact that the Soviet government was unrepresentative and undemocratic and that it had held sway
for years only by the use of force and continued compulsion. Mr. Alston is a Junior and Mr. Elliott a
Senior at Emory, and both are old hands at the forensic game. Mr. Alston was winner of the declaimers’ medal
in 1925 and other honors; Mr. Elliott is debating in his third year for the University. W. W. Pritchett and
R. C. Grady are both Sophomores at Davidson, this being the first varsity debate for either. Both, however, have made
their letter on the varsity ship team, also having made other honors exclusive of the athletic field.

(Continued on page 8)

Hamlin Garland, Middle Border Author, Characterizes Famous American Writers

Several of the Lecturer’s Poems and Prose Selections Enthusiastically Greeted by Audience

Hamlin Garland, noted figure in American literature, spoke to two large and appreciative Davidson audiences last Thursday afternoon and night,
taking as his subjects, “The Makers of American Literature” and “Memories of the Middle Border”. In the afternoon he discussed
eight of his friends—prominent in the field of literature. Knowing them as he did, in intimate association, he was able
to bring out untold features concerning each man. He paid tribute to these workers as the basis for our present
day literature and as the beginners of a national movement in America. Garland characterized Edward Eggleston as the “father of
all western fiction” and spoke of the “Hoosier Schoolmaster” as being “epoch marking”. He said that William Dean Howells was
easily the best user of the English language; Joaquin Miller, the finest poet of the mountains and plains and the
most picturesque man of that time or probably of any other; Bret Harte, the expatriate American; Henry James, novelist of
intricate psychology; and John Burroughs, the greatest nature poet. He told much of his relations with Riley and Mark Twain
and said that what Riley wrote is so true that it will last as long as life and remained there
until America declared war when he was one of the first to be sent overseas as captain of the machine
gun battalion of the Third Division. At the close of the war he was sent to Camp Benning where he
became an instructor in machine gun work. He remained there two years, after which he was detailed to Davidson.

(Continued on page 3)

Foster Chosen as Head of Glee Club

Wednesday night, March 30th, the Glee Club held its annual spring election of officers for the coming year. The men
chosen for these offices were J. S. Foster, president; R. E. Wilson and P. B. Fry, vice-presidents; E. L. Douglass,
business manager. The men nominated for the presidency were John Foster and Ed Douglass, who have served as vice-presidents of
the club during the past year. Both of these men have been members of the club for the past three
years, and have been valuable assets in making it a success, the former being a member of the quartet. Foster
won over the other candidate by a narrow margin. For the vice-presidency there were five men nominated, R. E. Wilson,
P. B. Fry, R. S. Archie, and McGill. On the first ballot Archie and McGill were eliminated, and of the
remaining three Wilson and Fry were chosen. The vice-presidents were chosen from the rising Juniors, Wilson being the popular soloist
of the club and Fry the pianist. E. L. Douglass was chosen business manager of the club by the Executive
Committee, composed of the officers of the past year. The retiring officers are J. S. McRae, president; John Foster and
Ed Douglass, vice-presidents; W. O. Green, business manager.

(Continued on page 5)

Serviceable Career of Capt. Geo. H. Weems at Davidson Terminates

Has Marked Success in Military Work at Davidson

EXCELLENT RECORD

Captain Weems Will Attend Command and Staff School at Fort Leavenworth

Captain George H. Weems, Professor of Military Science and Tactics, came to Davidson in the Fall of 1923, from Fort
Benning where he had been stationed as an instructor in machine gun work. Captain Weems attended school at Southwestern Presbyterian
College, formerly at Clarksville, Tennessee. There he was a leader in campus activities and a member of the Alpha Tau
Omega Fraternity. After graduation he went to the United States Military Academy at West Point, where he soon distinguished himself
as one of the outstanding members of his class. He was a linesman on the football team and light-heavyweight wrestling
champion and captain of the West Point team. He was appointed to a captainship in his senior year. From the
beginning of his West Point career he took an active interest in the Y. M. C. A. work and was
elected president of that institution in his senior year. He graduated in the class of 1916. After graduation he entered
active army life and remained there until America declared war when he was one of the first to be sent
overseas as captain of the machine gun battalion of the Third Division. At the close of the war he was
sent to Camp Benning where he became an instructor in machine gun work. He remained there two years, after which
he was detailed to Davidson.have tea with us against. Club | Abernethy, W. C. Archie, and S. W. Mc- Ed
Douglass was chosen business man- | after the summer camp. Captain Weems has notably distinguished | himself in army life.
He is an excellent authority in machine gun work and when the first R. O. T. C. Manual was published
he reviewed the machine gun material and when a later edition was made he reviewed the entire book, being chief
of the board of review. This is the fourth year that Captain Weems has been stationed at Davidson, three of
which he has been commander of the unit. He will not return here. This comes as a blow to all
who have known Captain Weems personally or as the efficient commander of the R. O. T. C. Unit and who
have hoped for his return. Notwithstanding his official duties as a commander, he has found time to coach the wrestling
team, and it may be said that a large part of the success of our wrestling teams of the past
few years can be accredited to his untiring efforts. It has been the custom of the War Department to leave
one of the officers of the R. O. T. C. Unit in charge during the summer.

(Continued on page 6)

DEBATERS WIN

Harlee Branch and Don Wharton, Jr., composing the Varsity Debating Team for the Northern trip, won by a two to
one decision against William and Mary University on Friday night, April 1st. The debate was held in the historic Phi
Beta Kappa Hall at Williamsburg. Judges for the debate were R. L. Morton, J. R. Gergle, and W. A. Montgomery,
all of the University Faculty. The William and Mary Team, composed of W. H. Elliot and Coil Andrews, left Saturday
on a Northern invasion similar to that of the Davidson team. The Davidson team met Gettysburg College on Tuesday, April
4th.

Davidson College Battalion is Inspected by Two Officers from War Department

Nisbet is Elected Head of Athletic Association

In the final balloting last week, officials for the Athletic Association were elected for the coming year. W. O. Nisbet,
of Charlotte, was chosen president of the Association, winning out over W. R. Grey, of Davidson, on the third ballot.
All of the Juniors who are lettermen were automatically nominated for this position, but in the first ballot all were
eliminated except the two men mentioned above and C. W. Harrison. Harrison was eliminated on the second ballot. J. W.
Melton, of Decatur, Ga., was elected as one of the two vice-presidents on the first ballot. Ed Wilson, of Charlotte,
was chosen as the other vice-president on the third ballot, winning out over R. O. Flinn Jr. of Atlanta, Ga.
Black, Ely, King, Crawford, Martin, Flyth, and Currie had previously been eliminated from the race. C. R. Pritchett of Reidsville
was elected treasurer of the Association in the final voting, over T. M. Brohard, of Grafton, W. Va. L. M.
Emmett, of Anderson, had been dropped.

Nisbet has been very prominent in athletic circles while at Davidson. Last fall he was one of the mainstays on
the state champion football team. Nisbet has gained a number of honors during the year just closing; he was vice-president
of the student body and during his sophomore year was president of his class. Nisbet is a member of the
Student Council and Beta Theta Pi fraternity. J. W. Melton first made his letter year before last, playing an excellent
game at guard and tackle throughout the season. His playing in the Carolina game at Chapel Hill in 1925 was
one of the features of the season. He is a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity. Wilson made his letter
last season.

(Continued on page 3)

Local Unit Competes for Distinguished Rating Today

SECOND INSPECTION

Colonel Bowen and Captain Gallagher, Distinguished Army Officers, Inspect R. O. T. C. Department during the afternoon drill period.

Today the R. O. T. C. unit will be inspected for the War Department's "Distinguished College" rating. Last year Davidson
won this coveted honor, competing against such colleges as Auburn, Mississippi A. & M., Clemson, Citadel, N.C. State, Wofford, Florida,
Georgia, and, in fact, every college in the United States maintaining a R. O. T. C. unit. This year the
military unit hopes to repeat.

The inspection is being conducted by Colonel Bowen of the Coast Artillery Corps and Captain Leonard Gallagher of the Engineers,
U. S. Army. Both officers arrived early this morning and proceeded at once with their rating of the military department.
Colonel Bowen is an officer of many years of service. He wears the Distinguished Service Medal and his campaign service
includes the Philippine Insurrection, Boxer Rebellion, and the World War. He is a graduate of the Army War College, School
of the Line, and the Coast Artillery School.

Colonel Bowen's assistant, Captain Gallagher, is a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and had active service during the World
War. He is particularly well equipped to inspect the R. O. T. C. unit as he has just completed four
years of instructional work with the R. O. T. C. at Harvard University. Because of this experience, Captain Gallagher no
doubt comes to Davidson in a sympathetic frame of mind, ready to find the good things and overlook, it is
hoped, with a charitable eye those things that are less than perfect.

(Continued on page 6)

Wildcat Tracksters Outpointed by State Wolfpack in Second Cinder Meet, 79-42

Cabinet of Y.M.C.A. Chosen by McRae

After careful consideration, Charley McRae, president-elect of the Y. M. C. A., has appointed an able cabinet for the "Y"
work of next year. Each one of the men selected are leaders on the campus both in religious work and
in other activities, and are especially capable in the line of work for which they are chosen, being selected with
that purpose in view. H. B. Arbucle, Jr., of Davidson, was appointed to supervise weekly meetings; M. C. O'Neal, of
Montgomery, Ala., and W. Hill of Richmond, Va., personal work; J. S. Foster, Winston-Salem, community work; P. G. Garrison, Covington,
Ga., Deputations; Julian Lake, Atlanta, Ga., vocational guidance; E. E. Brown, Salisbury, attendance; L. K. Pritchett, Reidsville, Sunday School work;
C. R. Rowe, Fredericksburg, Va., editor "Y" Handbook; H. M. Arrwood, Shelby, world evangelism; R. O. Flinn, Jr., Atlanta, Ga.,
church relations; J. W. Melton, Decatur, Ga., boy’s work; B. F. Martin, Atlanta, Ga., freshmen relations.

With the exception of Dick Flinn and Bill Hill who were elected vice-presidents, all these men are rising seniors. The
new officers and cabinet will be installed Sunday night, April 9th.

(Continued on page 2)

Davidson lost to N. C. State last Saturday by a 79-42 score in the second track meet of the season.
In only three events were the Wildcats able to win first place, these being the 100 and 220-yard dashes and
the shot put. Currie was high-point man for Davidson, winning both short-distance dashes and Leftwich was first in the shot
put. Goodykoontz led the field in the 440 but was disqualified on account of a jostle with a competitor on
a turn of the track. Calhoun met severe competition in the high jump as McDowell broke the state record of
6 feet 5-8 inches with a jump of 6 feet 1 inch. Due to a high wind, no exceptional records
were made on the track and only in the high jump was a new record made.

Summary: The outcome of events, in order of finishing, follows:

100 yard dash: Currie (D), Sides (S), Goodman (S). Time 10 1-5 seconds.
Mile run: Hoyle and Brimley (S), O'Neill (D). Time 4 minutes 57 3-5 seconds.
120 yard high hurdles: Gorham (S), Sims (D), Brown (D). Time 17 3-5 seconds.
220 yard dash: Currie (D), Melton (S), Sides (S). Time 22 3-5 seconds.
2 mile run: Nance (S), Traverton (D), Kendrick (S). Time 10 minutes 50 3-5 seconds.
880 yard run: Baker (S), Stigler (D),

(Continued on page 8)
