6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1927

Faculty Banquets Championship Team

The football team, coaches, members of the Athletic Council, and alumni of the adjoining towns were guests of the Davidson
faculty at a banquet given at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel on last Thursday night, March 17th. The guests and faculty
assembled at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel, and at 7:30 the doors were thrown open. No special program was followed, Professor
Woods, graduate manager of athletics, acting as toastmaster and in turn calling on different ones present for short talks. One
alumnus of each town was called on to introduce the guests from his town present, Prof. W. W. Woods introducing
the faculty, and E. F. Bohannon, the student members of the athletic council present. Among the alumni present were: Dr.
J. C. Rowan, of Concord; Mr. Query, of Gastonia, and Mr. Wilkinson, of Charlotte. Because of illness in his family,
Mr. W. W. Flowe, of Concord, could not stay over for the awards in Shearer Hall; so at this time
Dr. J. M. McConnell, on behalf of the coaches and team, presented Mr. Flowe with a gold football for his
loyal service and interest in athletics of Davidson College. Following the banquet all proceeded to Shearer Hall to take part
in the “Athletic Night” program.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Professional Notices
Phones: Office, 588-- Residence, 65

DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance
Commercial National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 6; Evenings 7 to 9; Sundays 2 to 4

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050; Residence, 1937-J

THE BEST PLACE TO EAT
Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.

Endeavorers Elect

At the regular weekly meeting of the Christian Endeavor Training Class, which was held last Sunday afternoon in Shearer Hall,
the officers for the coming year were elected. Bob Covington was chosen president by acclamation; Tom Preer, vice-president, and Fred
Poag, secretary and treasurer. The installation of these men will take place at the next meeting to be held next
Sunday. It was also decided that two deputations would be sent out during the remainder of this month, one to
Charlotte and the other to Huntersville. The deputation to Charlotte will be headed by Bob Covington, while the one to
Huntersville will be under the leadership of Everett Moye. Before the close of the meeting mimeographed pledges were distributed and
all the members were urged to memorize them as promptly as possible. The C. E. Training Class plays a very
important part in the religious activities on the campus and does a great deal of good. The plan of sending
out deputations to the various nearby towns is an excellent one and is of much benefit to those who gain
experience by doing this work. It is also a great source of information concerning church activities in other parts of
this country and in the missionary fields in foreign lands.

SHOES FOR DAVIDSONIANS
GILMER-MOORE
High quality, of course. And they’re made for college men,---good looking, well made, styles you men like, the sort you
always prefer, by comparison.
Gilmer-Moore Company
CHARLOTTE

YOUR CAR may be next!
A Fire and Theft Insurance Policy will protect you against that hazard. Let us cover your car.
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr.
M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)

Everything a good Drug Store can supply
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Prominent Speakers to Visit

Four Interesting Speakers Are Announced for Meetings

According to Jim Appleby, secretary of the Y. M. C. A., a very attractive set of speakers have been engaged
for the coming Sundays. On next Sunday, Bishop Penick, of the Charlotte Diocese of the Episcopal Church will speak. The
old students, who heard his baccalaureate sermon delivered at commencement last year, will not fail to hear his address. Bishop
Penick is a noted divine and excellent speaker. A splendid vesper talk is assured all who attend. Sunday week, Dr.
E. G. Gammon, of Selma, Ala., will conduct the “Y” services. Dr. Gammon will also conduct the spring services for
the students the following week, in this he will be assisted by the quartet from Columbia Theological Seminary. The services
for Easter Sunday will be a special musical and devotional program. This will probably be held on the lawn. The
secretary of the Y. M. C. A. will probably give a short talk at that time. Dr. Workman, head of
the school of religious education at the University of North Carolina, and formerly of Southern Methodist University at Dallas, Texas,
will speak either the Sunday before or the Sunday after Easter. The 30th of these dates are being offered to
Dr. Workman, but it has not yet been learned which he will prefer. Dr. Workman is a noted young minister
and a profound scholar and will give a talk which will be enjoyable as well as helpful to all. The
Sunday not taken by Dr. Workman will be given over to the installation of new officers. The program for the
first Sunday in May will be conducted by Mr. Clyde R. Hoey. He needs no introduction to the residents of
North Carolina as he is a former congressman from this state and is now a noted lawyer at Shelby. Other
attractions will also be added.

Ten Baseball Games Arranged for Rats

The schedule as announced by Manager S. F. Wilkinson, they will play...10 games, five of which will be on the
home diamond and five on foreign territory. This is a much larger schedule than the Freshmen have had heretofore. The
Wildkittens have been holding regular practice under the direction of Coach Mattox for two weeks and already he is beginning
to see bright prospects for a winning nine from the wealth of material that he has on hand. For the
twirler’s box, there is a hot contest between Henderson, Kugler, Harz, McInnis, Dobbins, and Hampton. At the receiver's end will
be found Williams, Baker, and Orr. Those trying out for infield positions are Prevost and Odiorne at third; Partrish, Kilgore,
and Hammett on second; Gladstone, Johnston, and McNair, first, and at short Cox and Wilkinson. The outfield positions lie mainly
between Miller, Marks, McConnell, and Ratchford. The schedule follows:

April 4—Mount Pleasant, at Mount Pleasant.
April 6—Catawba College, at Davidson.
April 9—Charlotte High School, at Davidson.
April 12—Mount Pleasant, at Davidson.
April 16—Wingate Junior College, at Davidson.
April 20—Wake Forest, at Davidson.
April 27—Wake Forest, at Wake Forest.
April 28—Carolina, at Carolina.
April 29—Duke, at Duke.
May 4—Catawba, at Catawba.

Husband (arriving late)—"Can't guess where I’ve been?”
Wife—"I sure can. But go on and tell your story first.”

Bernhardt—“Before I ask you to marry me I'd like to ask if there is any insanity in your family.”
She—“Not yet, no.”

Ho, McSwain! Jazz orchestra trombones look better in a derby than anybody else that wears 'em, Johnson C. Smith.

“Say, Mose. Is yo’ done made that fraternity yet?”
“Lawse, no, man, I’se done got white-balled.”

Officers for Term Preside at “Y” Vespers

“Y” Notes

The speaker at “Y” this Sunday will be Bishop Penick, of the Charlotte Diocese. He will be remembered by many
as the man who preached the baccalaureate sermon last year, a fine speaker and an intensely interesting preacher of the
Gospel. By all means, don't fail to hear him.

A deputation will be sent to Glade Valley this week continuing the excellent work of that department in the spring
program.

With Charlie McRae as president and Bill Hill and Dick Flinn as vice-president, the “Y” is ready to start another
year of work and service, and with these men as leaders, it is ably prepared to enjoy another great year.
The new leaders can feel sure that they will have the undivided support and aid of the whole student body
in this most important and valuable work, and with such an assurance they will enter into their new duties with
a feeling of confidence in the results of their labors.

The old officers are to be congratulated on the commendable way in which the affairs of the “Y” were handled
this year, and they may rest assured that in the season just past, the “Y” has a place of importance
and recognition in the activities of the campus that it has never before enjoyed. And that in itself is a
fitting monument to their earnestness and zeal in their work of the year that is almost past.

Dr. Gammon’s services are just a week off now and everyone should be thinking about these great meetings and planning
to attend them all. The Columbia quartet will assist Dr. Gammon and will be an important part of the services.
Remember these meetings in your prayers, the great life-work service of the spring program of the “Y”.

The work at the Mill Chapel is progressing splendidly and the “Y” officers note with satisfaction that a very sizeable
increase in the crowds attending these services can be seen. This important work is a new phase of “Y” work
this spring and has grown rapidly.

Which Do Gentlemen Prefer?

There are two classes of girls: those who are pretty and those who just don’t care for men.
