THE DAVIDSONIAN - FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 31, 1927 No. 24

Pritchett and Powell Defend Davidson In Win Over Queens College

Witnesses Davidson Victory Friday

CLOSE DECISION

Visiting Orators from Maryland Favor National Legislation of Marriage and Divorce Laws

The Davidson College debating team defeated the Johns Hopkins debating team in Charlotte Friday night, the 25th. The judges decided two to one in favor of Davidson following a discussion of the question, “Resolved: That the United States should adopt a uniform marriage and divorce law national legislation.” The Davidson debaters upheld the negative side of the question. Henry Powell and Leo Pritchett represented Davidson, while Eugene O'Dunne, Jr., and Donald C. Niles represented Johns Hopkins. Powell in his debate urged education as the only means of suppressing the divorce evil. His speech took on the religious hue for a while as he declared that the child should be taught the true Christian manner of living, a thing that is too often left to the Sunday School. Eugene O'Dunne, Jr., of Johns Hopkins, stated as refutation to Powell's arguments that he believed people could not be taught to love their wives or husbands. The negative stressed the point that better results could be obtained from education than from national legislation. The affirmative declared that the evil which resulted from diversity of laws was caused by laxity of divorce laws. O'Dunne caused quite a titter throughout the audience when he said, “As it now stands the rich can go to Paris and get their divorces, while the poor have to stay at home and bear the burden.” The debate was held in the chapel of Queens College and the audience consisted principally of the Queens College girls. This is one of the most notable victories for a Davidson debating team in recent years. Winning this contest brought the number of wins for the year to three with no losses.

Hancock and Rowe of Rising Juniors to Edit ’28 Annual

The editor of the 1928 Quips and Cranks will be D. W. Hancock, of Bluefield, W. Va., and the business manager will be C. R. Rowe, of Fredericksburg, Va. These men were chosen by the junior class in a recent election. Hancock won this important position by defeating A. T. Dillard, of Greensboro. He is a popular worker among the students and has many honors to his credit. Early this year he was elected by his class to fill the important position of historian. He is a member of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, and Kappa Alpha, social fraternity. Hancock can be counted on to boost the 1928 Quips and Cranks. Rowe, who has secured the position of business manager of next year’s annual, defeated V. J. Guthery, of Charlotte, and C. C. Trabue, of Nashville, Tenn. Rowe is junior manager of baseball at the present time. He is also a member of Delta Theta Chi, local social fraternity. Rowe's business ability will be a great aid to the editor in making Quips and Cranks a better annual. Don Wharton, the retiring editor, made a great success. Contrary to rumors, he has arranged more materials and will get the annual in the hands of its readers on May 1st. Early rumors have it that this annual will be a bigger and better publication. It will include many new features, including pictures of the whole student body. Clancy Williams, the retiring business manager, has kept pace with the whole staff. He, too, will be right up to date with the business end of the annual.

Inspection for Distinguished Rating in R.O.T.C. Department Booked for April 6

Notice has been received by Dr. Martin and Captain Weems that the War Department Board of Officers will inspect the R.O.T.C. unit at Davidson College on Wednesday, April 6th. The program for the inspection has not yet been completed. It is known, however, that the officials will inspect the morning classroom work, confer with the heads of the college, the officers of the unit, and the military committee, which is composed of Mr. Jackson, Dr. Frazer Hood, Dr. J. W. McConnell, and Capt. G. H. Weems. The morning drill will be featured by a tactical problem which is to be carried out by Company “C,” with Captain Green commanding. It is understood that the entire afternoon will be given over by the school to the War Department inspection and review. All the rifles, uniforms, and shoes of the cadets will be thoroughly inspected. Word has been received that the inspection this year will be made more rigid and thorough than that of last year. Davidson has been recommended for this inspection for the purpose of determining whether it shall be designated in the War Department orders and publications as one of the “Distinguished Colleges.” Usually, there are only about six units in the Fourth Corps Area designated as holding this distinguished rating. If Davidson wins this rating this year, the insignia earned last year pro tempore will become permanent. The inspection board for Davidson this (Continued on page 7)

Withers is Chosen as Head of Class

In the Senior class elections held during the past week Caldwell Withers, of Charleston, S. C., with 54 votes, won over Camper O'Neal, who polled 51. This victory for Withers gives him the leadership of the activities of the class of 1928. On the first ballot, the names of the following men were placed: V. J. Guthery, Camper O'Neal, Tyree Dillard, Bob Link, Pigey Wearn, J. S. Gray, and Caldwell Withers. All of these men are leaders in various campus activities, and the elimination of any on the first ballot was closely contested. The three high men on the first ballot were O'Neal, Wearn, and Withers. On the second ballot, Withers led with 39 votes, while O'Neal and Wearn followed closely with 35 and 28 votes respectively. Withers has been prominent in many campus activities during his three years here, especially in literary work. He is the retiring athletic editor of The Davidsonian, and editor-in-chief of Sanity Rare, a Junior publication. He is also assistant manager of baseball, a member of the Court of Control, of Delta Phi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, and holds many other honors. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

RETIRING EDITOR

Harlee Branch, Jr., of Atlanta, Ga., who has distinguished himself not only as an efficient and capable editor of The Davidsonian but as a prominent leader and organizer, concluded his term of office with the last issue of the paper. Branch Brings Colorful Career as Davidsonian Editor-in-Chief

CAMPUS LEADER

Editor is Outstanding Speaker and Debater and Leader in Many College Activities

In sending the last edition of The Davidsonian to press, Harlee Branch, Jr., concluded one of the most brilliant and efficient journalistic records ever made at Davidson. Serving as he has for four years, he has raised the standards of the newspaper to new heights and has accomplished things which, under existing circumstances, might well be termed unbelievable. Eager to institute those things which lead to advancement and always working with unending zeal, he has been an outstanding figure, not only in journalistic affairs but in every interest pertaining to the student body. Early in his freshman year, Branch’s ability to write was noted and hewas chosen as a member of the Reporters’ Club. During his Sophomore year, he was selected as a wearer of the coveted Golden Quill and also served as an associate editor on The Davidsonian for the year 1925-26 in recognition of his abilities as a newspaper man. He was managing editor and finally, as a climax, he was elected editor-in-chief for the year just drawing to a close. Among those notable achievements, Branch (Continued on page 3)

SPECIAL EDITIONS

Next week’s issue of The Davidsonian will be the special R.O.T.C. edition in which will appear not only the regular weekly news, but stories dealing with the work of the R.O.T.C. This will appear Wednesday during the time that the battalion is being inspected for Distinguished Rating. Following this will be the annual Junior Week Special containing pictures and stories of the leaders in the Movie Contest as well as numerous other features. The size of the paper will be enlarged and cuts, feature stories, and the like will be added attractions.

Davidsonian Staff Takes Over Work

As was forecasted in last week's issue of The Davidsonian, the new staff of the paper has been appointed and announced by Boyce Martin, the new editor, who took complete charge of The Davidsonian for the first time this week. Those receiving appointments on the editorial staff were A. N. Brown, W. K. Pritchett, J. B. Moriarty, C. R. Lake, L. C. Wadsworth, W. L. Lingle, Caldwell Withers, and T. T. Jones. The new business staff will not be appointed until the middle of April.

There has been a change made in the nomenclature and duties of the new staff in order to more evenly distribute the work among those men who will be eligible to run in the race for the editorship next year. Where there was a managing editor and assistant managing editor during the past year, with two separate and distinct duties, there will be three managing editors during the coming year whose duties will be the same but distributed at various times by rotation. A. N. Brown, W. K. Pritchett, and J. B. Moriarty have been appointed to fill these three positions. The new arrangement will not only distribute the bulk of the work more evenly, but will also tend to make the various editors more proficient in making up the paper.

C. R. Lake has been appointed athletic editor, and L. C. Wadsworth alumni editor. Three associate editors have been appointed, Lingle, Withers, and Jones, these coming according to custom from the rising Senior class, and being men who have had previous valuable experience in journalistic work. According to the rearrangement and new organization of the staff, the name of assistant editor has disappeared. The duties of this former office will be performed by the managing editors. During certain equally divided periods, each of the three managing editors (Continued on page 7)

Interest of Student Body is Centered

Association Elects Officials For Next Year From Many Candidates

Grey and Nisbet Lead Candidates on First Ballot

MANY CANDIDATES

Score of Outstanding Athletes Nominated for Office of Athletic Organization Monday

In the first round of balloting for officers of the Athletic Association held last Monday morning, W. R. Grey, of Davidson, and W. O. Nisbet, of Charlotte, held a substantial lead over a large number of men who were nominated for president. For one vice-president, H. W. Melton, of Decatur, Ga., was elected on the initial count, while “Dick” Flinn, of Atlanta, and Ed Wilson, of Charlotte, were selected to be voted on again in the final election.

For the office of secretary-treasurer, selected from members of the Freshman class, C. R. Pritchett, of Reidsville; T. M. Brohard, Grafton, W. Va.; and J. D. Hammett, of Anderson, S.C., led the first count. All these men were put up before the association on Wednesday morning for the final vote, but these results were not available at the time of going to press.

Besides the ones named, those men nominated were, for president, Grey, Maudin, Jennings, Wilson, Garrison, Harrison, Carr, Johnston, Kugler, Laws, Calhoun, and Dulin. For vice-president, Black, Ely, Henderson, and Hint. For secretary-treasurer, Peterson.

Grey and Nisbet are outstanding men of the campus both in athletic and other types of affairs. They were stellar halfbacks on the championship football team and Grey was chosen unanimously for the mythical all-state team. Nisbet has served as president of his class during his Sophomore year and is a retiring vice-president of the Student Body. Grey belongs to Kappa Sigma fraternity and Nisbet to Beta Theta Pi. Melton distinguished himself on the 1925 football team as a tackle but did not return during the past season. Flinn and Wilson (Continued on page 7)

First Term Honor Roll is Announced

A report has just been sent out from the registrar’s office which has in it the honor roll for all classes, the averages of each of the four classes, the student body average, the averages of the various fraternities, and also the averages of the different athletic teams representing Davidson. In the honor roll, G. H. Zimmerman led the Senior class, H. B. Arbuckle, Jr., led the Junior class, J. B. Moriarty led the Sophomores, while Alex Edleman was the only Freshman to make the honor roll. The Seniors led the class average with a grade of 90. The student body average was somewhat lower than this. Kappa Alpha led all fraternities with an average of 85.62. Among the athletic teams, the varsity basketball had the highest average with 87.38. The following is the general report, in order of their marks:

Seniors—Zimmerman, G. H.; Austin, H. M.; Goodykoontz, H. G.; Gordon, W. S.; Kuykendall, J. B.; Leathers, L. H.; Short, T. L.; Rice, W. B.; Christian, W. A.

Juniors—Arbuckle, H. B.; Howard, D. H.; McRae, C. F.; Davidson, C. B.; McAlister, J. S.; Lothery, T. E.; Bradford, W. B.; Stephenson, P. M.; Dickson, B. W.; Burgess, A. F.

Sophomores—Moriarty, J. B.; Graham, (Continued on page 3)

Last minute reports from the stupendous May-King contest, sponsored by The Davidsonian, indicate that Dave Fleming, the handsome lad from the sticks, is leading the field by a comfortable margin of approximately 5,000 votes. Riggs McConnell, pride of Davidson, holds on to second place by a narrow margin of 1,400 of the paper markers, while his closest rival, Russell Tucker, is gladdening the hearts of Reidsville with his game fight for the first decision. The votes of the leaders stand as follows: Fleming, 20,700; McConnell, 15,600; Tucker, 14,200.

Campus enthusiasm in regard to this latest innovation indicates an exceedingly heavy vote. As the first day's polls closed, something like 75,000 votes had been cast by the adherents of the various candidates. At chapel Monday morning, 12 men were nominated: E. L. McDonald, Riggs McConnell, Bob Mitchell, Harllee Branch, Russell Tucker, V. J. Guthery, Gordon McSwain, Ed Wilson, D. O. Westbrook, Dave Fleming, Pee-Wee McCracey, and Droopy Hudgins. At this early date, no political dopester would risk his reputation attempting to pick the winner out of this all-star aggregation. It is safe to say, however, that no one has yet his position sewed up. General campus sentiment, as the paper went to press, had it that all the other candidates would do well to watch the boy from the third floor of East, Droopy Hudgins. Hudgins, modest and without undue (Continued on page 3)