DAMS ta 4 =a." 2 AEN Boe Tr HE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 4, 1927... AOSgta 1 ie ORE BAL Woes wos
res Vue

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill” —
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES, SR. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
A. N. BROWN Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY Managing Editor
G. URSACKER Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS Associate Editor
T. T. JONES Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS Assistant Business Manager
M. P. C. Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE Assistant Business Manager
A. A. McALPINE Subscription Manager
V. L. ALBRIGHT Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
T. N. REESE President
A. N. BROWN Vice-President
C. R. L Secretary-Treasurer
W. H. BAILEY
McBRYDE TYREE
DILLARD B. McQUEEN
J. L. ELY
W. K. PRITCHETT
J. R. GRAHAM
B. WILSON
JOHN GWIN
W. A. WEAVER
R. C. GRADY
L. C. WADSWORTH
R. H. KANE
J. B. MORIARTY
JOHN McKNIGHT

Again the unrelenting Hand, in directing the divine course of events, has seen fit to withdraw from this little community
one of its beloved members. In the loss of Mrs. C. K. Brown, Davidson College as well as the inhabitants
of the town, has suffered a distinct shock. The Davidsonian and its entire staff of workers wish to extend to
Professor Brown and to the bereaved family its heartfelt expression of sympathy.

MOTHER’S DAY
The second Sunday in May rolls around to remind us to remember and pay special tribute to one who should
be paid special tribute every day. The dedication of a day throughout the world to the one who means most
to us is an everlasting monument to one who has loved us more dearly than anyone else all the years
of our life. Whether living or dead, the memory of mother is the sweetest of all thoughts to man. The
purest love in all the world is devoted to the one to whom all homage should be paid. Each man
owes an enormous debt to his mother which can never be paid. One day a year seems entirely too small
to squeeze in all the tribute which should be paid to the dearest person in the world, but it should
be remembered that every day should be mother’s day, in some small way. The one who has devoted so many
days to us is remembered every day of the year but the second Sunday in May is a public demonstration
of the love we have for the one waiting at home for us. Many and many a tale has been
told of the inspiration of mother love, yet all fall short of expressing all that should be said. Lincoln said
that all that he was or ever hoped to be was due to his dear mother. Everyone feels this in
some way yet we fail to express it enough. The simplicity, the earnestness, and the depth of feeling expressed on
this one day of the year is not enough appreciation. We remember the ones at home every day but there
is not enough outward expression of our feelings. As this day comes each year we resolve to act properly in
this manner and as the months pass on we are apt to forget. A small way of expressing our love
this year will be to attend the “Y” services on Sunday afternoon. A special Mother’s Day program will be given
and a large number of students should be present. There will be either a red rose or a white one
on the lapel of every man on Sunday morning. Every man who thinks enough of his mother to wear this
little token of his love for her should also sacrifice a little of his time and express his love a
little more by attending these services. The great majority of men feel awkward and embarrassed when attempting to express their
emotions and feelings, but on Mother’s Day an excellent opportunity will be given to show our love first by wearing
the flower and then attending the services in the afternoon.

THE CALL TO BLUE RIDGE
With the coming of spring, flowers, the turning of a young man’s fancy and all that sort of thing, comes
the annual call for students to spend ten days in the “Land of the Sky” at Blue Ridge. Every man
at Davidson has probably heard of the Blue Ridge conferences and each man knows their true worth and the benefits
which can be derived from attending such inspirational meetings. There is no need to arouse the usual ballyhoo about the
beauties of nature, but each man here should seriously think of attending the conference this year unless he has other
plans for the summer which cannot be changed. For the past fifteen years students from all over the south have
gone to Blue Ridge to discuss various problems and to gain new vigor and new ideas for the next year’s
work at their various institutions. There is not only the privilege of fellowship with the representative students from all over
the south but there is also the inspiration of the various national leaders and teachers who will give talks to
the conference at various times. There is no doubt but that every student today has various problems perplexing him with
which he has never been bothered before. There are trials which every man must undergo and temptations which he must
meet. It is only through sane and thorough discussions of these problems that a man will ever be able to
combat them successfully. This is one of the main features of the Blue Ridge Conference and no matter what a
man’s life work may be he is certain to obtain some worthwhile information concerning it at these meetings. At present
there are only four or five Davidson students who have signified their intention of attending this conference. It is deplorable
that at a denominational school such as Davidson the students should fail to appreciate the worth of these meetings. It
is said that the only sure way to get a man to do a thing is to tell him not
to do it. If that is correct this article has been written in vain, but still each man here should
think of attending this conference, weigh its advantages and carefully consider the possibilities of his attending it. For the last
few years Davidson has been well represented and there are several boys in school now who have attended these conferences,
who are extremely interested that Davidson has a large delegation this summer. It is difficult for those who have never
been to Blue Ridge to attempt to appreciate all of its values but the only real proof for them is
to go to Blue Ridge and convince themselves.

FRESHMAN WEEK
Next year there will be an innovation in the registering of the new men when Freshman Week is inaugurated. At
this time, if present plans are carried through, the Freshmen will be required to be at school two or three
days before the upperclassmen arrive in order that they may be thoroughly orientated on the campus by the time all
of the sagacious ones announce their presence on the campus. Prior to this year, the freshmen have been given lectures
and talks by a number of students on the campus in an attempt to inculcate the real Davidson spirit in
them. The new system will only be a more advanced method of this system. While the freshmen are here alone
they will be shown all of the buildings on the campus in order that they might know where their classes
will be held, where they will room, etc. During this time also, various lectures will be given to them. Some
on the honor system, the method of student government, how to study at college and various other questions which are
of vital interest to men who are entering college for the first time. It is highly important that every upperclassman
who knows of a freshman expecting to attend Davidson next year to impress on him the fact that he must
be here in time for the orientation week. If only half of theClass arrive or if they co-operate only half-heartedly,
the week will be a failure and it will be impossible to instill all of the principles and traditions of
Davidson into the men at the time when they need it most. Fresh Weeks or Orientation Week are in vogue
at various institutions now. Auburn has adopted this plan and it has been highly successful in the two years it
has been used. Georgia Tech plans to adopt it next year for the same reasons that Davidson has adopted it.
It remains up to the freshmen themselves and to the upperclassmen of next year, for all to work together, in
order that the men of 1931 may be men of Davidson calibre from the start. Unless these co-operate the entire
week will be a failure and we will have a class which will know very little of the most important
things at Davidson.

Are student minds uniform? That is a question which is often answered in the affirmative by comic cartoonists. The student
usually denies it emphatically. However, the recent questionnaire sent out by the Fact Finding Committee caused some Davidson students to
accept the statement. Two students filled out the blanks separately and upon comparison found that they differed in only one
respect. Comparisons with their closest neighbors never showed a difference of more than one item, while still further comparison with
ten students in other dormitories found the largest divergence to be four times, and that in only one case.

One Singapore Herring, of Chicago, walked near the lake in search of cooling breezes, came near a fish cannery. A
ten-pound can of his namesake fell from the third-story window, struck Mr. Herring, flattened him.

Investigation of the annals of Davidson discloses that there were rulings among organizations prohibiting combines for electing favorites to literary
society office. Annual dues were usually twenty-five cents; initiation fees, one dollar.

The Prince of Wales leads the world in dress, but President Coolidge runs a close second. His suits, formerly of
the mediocre $65 type, have leaped to $125 and $140. He is known as the best-dressed man in Washington. His
foot is a perfect eight and a half. He prefers a double-breasted coat, blue or gray.

A present Davidson student was one of the first four upon whom experiments were made at John Hopkins University with
insulin, a remarkable cure for diabetes. The injections caused temporary insanity. He is completely cured now. The drug often has
this effect. During the past two weeks, two similar concoctions have been discovered for the cure of the disease. Their
effect is mild, stimulating.

Victor Hugo was perhaps the most versatile of all great world writers. He excelled in novels, plays, and lyric poems.
Several volumes of the latter have been published. As a novelist, he wrote Les Miserables, one of the greatest of
all times. He also wrote Ruy Blas, a great play.

In 1917 the United States entered the World War, seeking democracy, freedom, no pecuniary gain. Upon signing of the armistice,
others wrangled, sought new possessions, obtained them. The United States held aloof, comparatively. Now ten years later, she finds herself
in possession of the greatest of all prizes, international prosperity. Every great nation of the world is debtor to her,
dependent upon her resources. Her national wealth is many times that of any other nation as a direct result of
the war. Perhaps one might say the just receive their deserts.

In the Mississippi River floods at Greenville, only one house has completely survived, that of a Davidson student. The water
rose to the front doorstep, is there now, will be for a week or more. Near the same town, Big
Bill Thompson, Mayor of Chicago, on a triumphal voyage to New Orleans, attempted to land, was threatened by rifles. The
wash of the boats endangered the levees.

Apply this quotation to the next freshman you see: “The emptiness of ages in his face, And on his back
the burden of the world.” —The Man With the Hoe.

One of the most promising poets of America today is only thirteen years old. By name she is Nathalia Crane.
When eight years old she wrote her first verse, contributed it to the New York Sun, had it accepted. Incognito
she wrote still more poems for the paper, until the editors sent for her, were amazed by her ability. Her
first volume, The Janitor’s Boy, appeared when the author was ten years old.

In the recent awarding of the Pulitzer prizes, the Canton (Ohio) Daily News was awarded the medal for “the most
distinguished and meritorious service rendered by any American newspaper during the year.” Don R. Mellet, the former editor, was assassinated
a few months ago and the fight which his paper made to arrest the slayer was one of the main
reasons it was awarded the prize. In the other prize in the journalistic department, the Boston (Mass.) Herald was adjudged
to have had the best editorial for the year. This was “We Submit,” written by Lauriston Bullard.

If all the reporters covering the Snyder trial were sent to the flooded area in the Mississippi to send back
reports about the conditions there, possibly more people would be giving to the relief than have been doing so.

Collegiate Comment

The University of Delaware is again sponsoring a Foreign Study Group for the fifth year. Students will go to France
for a year to study in various universities there under the special tutorship of assigned professors. Courses will be given
at the University of Paris, Nancy, Sorbonne, and various other institutions.

At Lafayette College numerous students apply for membership for a special class in Creative Writing. The professor takes the applications
and chooses the students which he would like to have in his class for the next year.

A circle of Omicron Delta Kappa will be installed soon at the University of South Carolina. As soon as the
trustees ratify the action of the legislature in regard to social fraternities, chapters of various national organizations will be placed
there.

A new engineering building is being planned at Clemson College to replace the one destroyed by fire last spring.

The 112th anniversary of the founding of Allegheny College, Meadville, Pa., was celebrated last week with appropriate exercises.

In an international essay contest recently sponsored by the Saddle Sirloin Club of Chicago, the University of California placed five
men among the leading twenty with seventeen states and one Canadian province taking part.

During the midsemester at the University of Chattanooga, the honor system was introduced for the first time.

The Georgia Tech chapter of Pi Delta Epsilon, honorary journalistic fraternity, is sponsoring a statewide journalistic contest among the high
schools of Georgia to determine the best student paper.

The landscape gardening class at Union University, Jackson, Tenn., makes annual trips to the various nurseries in that part of
the country taking both the eds and the co-eds.

From the amount of publicity and gentle laughing that has greeted the announcement of the Colorado College survey that a
kiss shortens a person’s life, it would seem that there are numbers of students still planning to commit suicide. Is
this the idea of the “Suicide Club” which has been recently organized here?

The Gamecock, University of South Carolina paper, was first published in 1908, one of the South’s first collegiate newspapers.

A girl’s college in Germany has discontinued the study of biology as incompatible with maidenly modesty. —New Student.

At the University of California, the co-eds have adopted the ankle-length dresses again. Possibly they wish to be different from
Hollywood or maybe they are bow-legged.

The new Andrew B. Murray Barracks were opened at the Citadel last week.

At Elon College an annual debate is held between the freshmen and the sophomores. This year’s contest the sophomores emerged
victorious.

The sophomores at the University of Richmond recently celebrated their second birthday. A large reception and musical program was presented
and the entire student body attended.

A University of North Carolina alumnus and professor of Philosophy, Paul Green, has been awarded the Pulitzer prize for his
play “In Abraham’s Bosom.” This is the second time that a University alumnus has been awarded this prize, Hatcher Hughes,
receiving it in 1924.

There are only thirteen seniors at King College, Bristol, Tenn., in the graduating class this year.

The Y. M. C. A. at Hampden-Sydney College has been supplanted by the Student’s Christian Association. The students making the
change themselves after much deliberation believing that the Y. M. C. A. was contrary to some of their religious beliefs
in some parts of its organization.
