THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 8, 1927

Major H. Maloney Will Inspect Davidson Battalion in January

Maj. Harry J. Maloney, of the Fourth Corps Area, will be here January 4th, in order to inspect Davidson’s R.
O. T. C. unit. Major Maloney is in charge of the R. O. T. C. division of this area and
is making his annual visit to Davidson. He will inspect this unit; but that does not determine whether we will
be inspected in the spring for the Distinguished Rating. The fact that this unit got Distinguished Rating last year makes
it imperative that it be inspected this year. The Davidson unit has held the Distinguished Rating for the past two
years. Last year the unit made the highest percentage of any unit of this area, which includes the Southern States.
The local officers are proud of the showing in the past and want to show Major Maloney that the unit
will make as good this year.

The inspection will be held on the 4th of January, which is the same day that school begins after the
holidays. It would be well if the men keep this in mind and be prepared to put on an excellent
parade as well as other movements.

Another thing of interest to the Davidson men is that Lieutenant Otto has received his promotion to captain. Captain Otto
received his promotion on the 22nd of November. Captain Otto was a captain in the war and has just regained
his captaincy.

PLEA IS MADE (Continued from page 1)

derful opportunity. So, in a direct way, the Davidson College student body will “father” some 20 odd boys and give
them their rightful chance in life. When the subscription blanks are handed out, the following words, symbolic of the spirit
of the undertaking, will be printed on each:

“Believing in the eternal spirit of giving, I want to give of myself unselfishly in order that some mountain boys
may have an opportunity to receive an education at Banner Elk School for Boys, Banner Elk, N. C. With this
in view, I pledge the following amount to be used in His service for His great work.”

Once long ago a Man walked the shores of Galilee, trod the dusty roads of Palestine, giving Himself then that
we now might be able to give. This lonely figure walked straight into the hearts of men to remain there
forever, but in so doing He meant not that men should be content to let His Spirit rest in their
hearts alone. He wished that they, in turn, might pass it on, keeping before them always His eternal gift, for
in this way men would not forget to lend a helping hand to a struggling brother.

Davidson has a chance now to show her colors. May she not take advantage of it?

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see M. P. Crawford
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Deputation of “Y” Men at Conference

Davidson, on Friday, December 2nd, sent a deputation of eight men to assist in leading and directing the ninth annual
Older Boys’ Conference, held in Hickory, December 2-3-4. This group was sent by the “Y” and consisted of Monroe Gilmour,
Bill Weaver, Bill Covington, John Melton, Russell Neuman, Murray Christian, Raymond Lake, and Sam Wiley. The deputation had charge of
the discussion groups of the conference, and assisted in other ways. John Melton and Raymond Lake had charge of the
Sunday morning services at the First Presbyterian Church of Hickory, the former speaking and the latter praying.

The Older Boys’ Conference is an annual gathering of representatives from Hi-Y clubs, Sunday School societies, and other organizations from
all over the state. They come together, sponsored by the Y. M. C. A., to discuss boys’ problems and conditions.

TEN ADDITIONAL DEBATERS (Continued from page 1)

vorce Laws Should Be Enacted Through National Legislation.” As the speaker could choose the side he wished to represent, the
popular side of the question was the affirmative, 16 men upholding that side and seven men advancing the negative. The
men who tried out are as follows:

Affirmative: E. E. Marsh, J. B. Knox, C. M. Pratt, W. M. Powell, F. D. Miller, Dan Currie, J. W.
Williams, H. E. Russell, W. L. Dumas, W. B. McGuire, F. D. Daniels, J. P. McBryde, J. M. Murchison, M.
T. Gilmour, Reid Graham, and Frank Hall.

Negative: A. T. Edelman, H. A. Knox, Camper O'Neal, Mur-

Town News

Professor Lilly, Professor Cumming, and Dr. Lingle attended the annual meeting of the North Carolina Literary and Historic Association, which
was held in Raleigh.

Dr. Martin and Dr. J. M. McConnell were present at the annual meeting of the Association of Schools and Colleges
of the Southern States, which convened in Jacksonville, Fla.

Mr. F. L. Jackson made a short trip to the University of Virginia, to attend a meeting of the treasurers
and business managers of the colleges and universities of the eastern part of the United States.

Last Friday night the Sorosis Club held a meeting, with Miss Schofield and Mrs. W. A. Sutton as hostesses, at
the home of the latter. The “As You Like It” Clubmet last Friday night with Mrs. Graham, at the S.
A. E. House. Mrs. W. J. Martin spent the Thanksgiving holidays at Fayetteville, N. C. We stated in the first
paragraph of this column that the football season is over and that this column will naturally be devoted to other
sports from now on. However, we cannot close the football without making some comment on the outcome of two of
the post-season games. The victory of Georgia Tech over Georgia was one of the biggest upsets of the year. The
writer was not able to see the game, but from the reports of those who did see it, it was
great and worthy of the large crowd which attended it. Davidson, we see, is not the only team which causes
upsets. We don’t know what the excuse of the Georgia backers was, but we'd be willing to bet that the
Bulldogs were pretty confident of their ability to come out victorious when the opening whistle blew.

Scabbard and Blade Fraternity Sponsors Rifle Firing Contest

CAMPAIGN TO AID (Continued from page 1)

the Grandfather’s Orphanage was founded. This institution contains 80 children gathered from the mountain recesses. Many new children are adopted
each year as the older children are placed in Christian homes for rearing and education. During the past year, after
the Plum Tree School for boys was burned, the board of trustees requested of the Lees-McRae Institute to take over
the boys’ school. They have done so and now have a fine high school house in a temporary building. The
tuition, room, and board charges amount to $150 a year. Many mountain boys who are penniless attend the institution, working
in and about the school in raising supplies and in other jobs, and thereby making $100 of their expenses. The
remaining $50 has to come from scholarships. It is the purpose of the “Y” of Davidson College to provide for
20 of these scholarships of $50 each. The Cabinet is sure that such an investment will yield more than would
any other mission. All the boys served by the Plum Tree School are of pure Anglo-Saxon descent who have plenty
of native ability, but who lack incentive to use their talent. So the Y. M. C. A. hopes to place
20 of these boys where they will receive the proper training and encouragement. The work at Banner Elk is carried
on under the leadership of Edgar Tufts, Jr., class of '21, who was chosen as his father’s successor after the
latter’s death a few years ago. Although young at the time, he has borne the responsibility with the same interest
and success as did his father. He is assisted in his work by a loyal group of 20 co-workers and
teachers. The keynote of the institution since its very foundation has been progress without debt. It presents an opportunity of
rare possibilities to the Y. M. C. A. to help carry on a work nobly begun.

The rifle shooting contest sponsored by the Scabbard and Blade military fraternity for the week ending December 10th has one
more firing. The trophy, that will go to the high man, is a gold medal on which are crossed rifles,
bull’s eye, and ribbon, which will be worn on the winner’s uniform. The match will last through this week and
the trophy will be awarded Wednesday, December 14th. The entrants in the contest are: M. T. Gilmour, S. Y. Brown,
C. M. Pratt, W. L. Hart, E. G. Epes, E. D. Lennon, C. H. Dubose, W. B. Yancey, W. G.
McGavock, J. N. Henderlite, T. T. Penn, J. M. Gudger, C. W. Taylor, R. D. Russell, P. J. Garrison.

The Davidson-Statesville match from October 2th to December 6th is being held at about the same time. Last Tuesday night
J. S. Gudger made the highest score of the night, making 184 points out of a possible 200. This score
was only beaten by “Doc” Prieze, of Gastonia, who shot 188 out of a possible 200.

The following is a tentative schedule of rifle matches for the year 1927-1928:
- Statesville match (now being fired) — October 8-December 6
- Scabbard and Blade Trophy Match — December 5-10
- West Virginia University — January 7
- A. & M. College of Oklahoma — February 4
- Emory University — February 4
- Davidson Open March — February 6-11
- Culver Military Academy — February 11
- A. & M. College of Texas — February 15
- Kemper Military School — February 18
- Oregon Agricultural College — February 25
- University of Vermont — March 10
- North Dakota State College — March 17
- V. M. I. Match (fired there)
- Oak Ridge Match (fired there)
- Fourth Corps Area Match

Mr. and Mrs.

By BRIGGS

Come on, Joe. NOT very! WELL. I GUESS DON'T BE SILLY. No I'VE A LOT TO BE THANKFUL FOR! YOU'RE
THE DOCTOR SAID BREAKFAST TOMORROW A DINNER, LIKE YOU DID GET RID OF THAT COUGH HERE'S THE WISHBONE, JOE. MAKE
A WISH I WISH I'D GET A LITTLE SYMPATHY WELL, YOU CAN WISH SMOKE OLD GOLDS AND GET RID OF
THAT COUGH AND GROUCH OF YOURS The Smoother and Better Cigarette not a cough in a carload STOP ASKING FOOLISH
QUESTIONS. I'LL GIVE YOU A DIME IF YOU'LL RUN DOWN TO THE DRUG STORE AND GET ME A CARTON OF
OLD GOLDS
