THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1927

More Poultry Than Poetry

Said the rooster to the little brown hen—"What became of that egg?”
Replied the little brown hen to the rooster—"I guess I mislaid it.”

Math Again

If it takes a polar bear two days to eat a passage through the snow drift at his front door,
how long will it take an elephant to hatch a sardine with boxing gloves on?

Pat had been cursed to the hospital for an operation. As he lay on the bed, he beckoned to the
nurse and said weakly, “Faith, and Oi’ll not be operated on by that doctor.”
“Why, he’s one of the cleverest surgeons living,” replied the nurse.
“Maybe so, but he has an unlucky name. Oi heard him say his name was Dochter Killpatrick.”

Miss Mary was of fine physique,
Her art she was a good critique,
Her nose was Greek,
Her temper unique,
And one of her eyes was oblique.

Prize Optimist

[Upper classmen in smoke-shop, buying Camels]

Baldheaded gent to barber—"Have you anything that will restore my hair?”
Barber—“Absolutely. This little bottle will have hair growing on your head within less than a week. And within a fortnight
your relatives won't even know you.”
B. H. M—“I'll take a couple of bottles, and you can wrap me up a comb and brush with it
too.”

Sandy had decided to turn over a new leaf and he just had to tell everybody about it. “I have
resolved,” he said, “and you can wrap me up a comb and brush with it too.”
“But my dear, Sandy,” protested his wife, “you couldn't drink any more. The point is, have you decided to drink
any less?”

First Co-ed—“My fur coat came from an Alaskan seal.”
Second Co-ed—“And mine came from a Chicago sucker.”

Experienced smokers have proved it. Never was a tobacco word so famous, or a cigarette so good. First in popularity,
because the best—that is the story of Camel, the biggest cigarette success ever known.

Discriminating tobacco lovers by the million rediscover it each day and every evening as the friendly Camels are lighted. There
simply is no better cigarette made. The choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos grown are bought for Camels—and such blending for
taste and fragrance! Only the largest tobacco organization in the world could produce a cigarette like Camel.

In terms of popularity, Camel quality has reflected itself in the greatest preference ever given a cigarette. There never was
a tobacco word so famous, or a cigarette so good. First in popularity, because the best—that is the story of
Camel, the biggest cigarette success ever known.

If you want such smoking enjoyment as you never hoped to find, just try Camels. Smooth, fragrant and mellow-mild, from
the first touch of the flame to the final puff, Camel will mean a revelation to you of tobacco goodness.
For pleasure unalloyed, for the best that’s made regardless of price, “Have a Camel!”

DAVIDSON BOARD OF TRUSTEES

(Continued from page 1)

The preacher arose to begin the service. He looked about him and failed to see the choir. “I see that
we have no choir today,” he said, “so the congregation will have to sing.”

For many years dancing by Davidson students...Students, on the will please arise and sing "Praise God, From Whom All Blessings
Flow."

College property, or under the sponsorship of student organizations, has been prohibited by the college authorities.

They met on a bridge at midnight;
They'll never meet again—
One was a westbound heifer,
The other an eastbound train.

Book Review
Miller (to librarian)—"Have you any more books by Author Unknown? He wrote a story in our English and I liked
it."
Librarian—"No, but I have the latest work of Anonymous. Wouldn't you like to read that?"

The Doctor of Divinity Degree was conferred upon Rev. L. O. McCutchen, missionary in Korea; Rev. C. E. Hodgin, prominent
Greensboro pastor; and Rev. R. S. Burwell, retired minister now living at Davidson. Dr. Thornton Whaling, professor in Louisville Theological
Seminary, Louisville, Ky., was given the Doctor of Literature Degree, while Prof. R. L. Flowers, treasurer of Duke University and
a member of the Duke Foundation Board, was given the degree of Doctor of Laws.

An American tourist was wandering about a Scotch cemetery when he noticed engraved on one of the tombs these words:
"Lord, she was thin." He saw an old man at a distance and walking up to him he asked the
meaning of such an epitaph.
"Well, it was this way," said the old man, "McKinsah, the girl’s father, engaged a man to engrave the words,
'Lord, she was thine' on his daughter’s tomb. He wanted a dollar per letter but old Mack only offered him
fourteen dollars for the job. The engraver stopped at the fourteenth letter and collected his pay."

Fresh Godwin (on street car in Charlotte)—"Let me sit next to the window so I can count the blocks."

In former days a lady held up her skirts while crossing the street, but now she holds them down.

Society Column
Mr. Green and Mr. Brown got blue the past weekend and went to call on their girls, Miss White and
Miss Black. They decided to go see "The Red Mill." All were tickled pink. On their way back, Brown was
green and failed to stop for the red light to flash. They got pinched which made Green red with anger.
Brown was yellow but Green asked Miss White for a kiss and her face turned scarlet.

In associate professors, Prof. G. B. Watts was elevated to a full-time professorship in the French department. Dr. G. R.
Harding and Dr. W. R. Grey, who are automatically retired under the annuity plan, were elected by the board to
serve another year. It was announced that, in addition to the $100,000 recently given toward the completion of Chambers building,
$82,000 more had been pledged. The board was of the opinion that a contract should be let for the two
remaining sections simultaneously, but that if this was not practicable and feasible, they would favor letting a contract for the
central section at the earliest date possible.

Dr. W. J. Martin suggested a nine-year program for Davidson before its centennial celebration, which was referred to the Executive
Committee for consideration. The question of a new constitution for the board was deferred until the June meeting, to allow
time for further study of it. It was decided to continue the policy of giving A. B. and B. S.
Degrees to students, instead of changing and giving only one degree.

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

CREDENZA, $300.00
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.
The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
