THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1927

Davidson Faculty Approves of Military Training According to Dr. Arbuckle

When the S. A. T. C. came to Davidson in 1918, the physical training of the students was taken over by the military authorities. For three years prior to this time, the faculty had provided compulsory physical exercises for the Freshmen and was contemplating required physical training for Sophomores. It was the consensus of opinion of college faculties throughout the country that physical training should be required of all Freshmen and Sophomores. Our experience with the Freshmen in these required exercises was far from satisfactory, as Freshmen were constantly cited to meet the faculty for discipline because of frequent violation of our regulations. Many of us were loath to undertake, on this account, the compulsory training of Sophomores.

The physical exercises given by the S. A. T. C. were so well executed and the results so satisfactory that we were convinced that our students could not be given better physical training. When the question arose as to the establishment of the R. O. T. C. unit at Davidson College, this was the argument that won the votes of the majority of the faculty. So the R. O. T. C. came. In spite of its unpopularity with the students in its early years, all had to confess that it had solved our problem of required physical training for the Freshmen and Sophomores. The faculty has had practically no discipline to enforce, while the students themselves admitted that they were greatly benefited by the physical training. This may have been irksome at times, but no form of required exercises could be more interesting and at the same time more beneficial. In this, at least, the R. O. T. C. has given results with increasing satisfaction each year.

Not only has the R. O. T. C. given training for the muscles, but it has taken the students out regularly into the open air, cleaned out their lungs, and supplied that vigor that is revealed in bright eyes, ruddy cheeks, and elastic steps. More than this, it has given to the student body that good appearance that is inseparably connected with soldierly bearing. Davidson students were once slouchy in their walk, careless in dress, lazy in the classroom. Thanks to the R. O. T. C., they are so no more. The faculty credits the R. O. T. C. with this splendid transformation.

The faculty does not undervalue the influence of the R. O. T. C. in the discipline of our students. It is true that rigid military discipline is not enforced, but our students are kept for several hours each week under a mild but firm discipline of the R. O. T. C. officers, and this discipline works. If one could see the rush of students from every quarter of the campus at the bugle call, he would be convinced that punctuality is enforced. It enforces obedience to those in authority, which is wholesome for young men. It engenders a feeling of respect, confidence, and pride, which makes it easy for the students to work for the success of their respective companies and, better still, it unifies the whole student body to strive for the honor and glory of the college. What but this could have placed Davidson College R. O. T. C. in the distinguished rating class? It was the snap, the hard work, the zeal, and the love of the boys that composed our battalion that overcame their inexperience in military drill, the short time allotted to this training, and the lack of equipment.

These are some of the fruits of the wholesome discipline that the R. O. T. C. has employed in handling our students. The faculty delights to express its appreciation of the uniform courtesy, faithfulness, efficiency, and zeal of the officers that the U. S. Army has sent to Davidson to direct the R. O. T. C. In their demeanor toward students and faculty, they have shown themselves every one a gentleman. In all these years, not one unbecoming thing has occurred in their discipline of our students.

Moreover, we are not unmindful of the contribution of the R. O. T. C. in its instructional functions. It is well for every young man, it matters not how peaceful may be his intentions, to know the construction and use of firearms. The R. O. T. C. gives a thorough study in this. It furnishes instruction concerning explosives, the organization of the army, and the deploying of troops. It trains the students in map drawing and topographical surveys. From the testimony of the students themselves, they learn many useful and valuable things in these courses, and in order to pass, they are compelled to study.

Battalion Officers Leaders on Campus

A glance at the roll of the Advanced Course students of the R. O. T. C. reveals the fact that a large number of the leaders on the campus are included in this body and that the number of important positions held by these officers, both commissioned and non-commissioned, is unusually large in proportion to the number.

The most noticeable preponderance is in athletics, in which 17 officers participate. Football and track have seven each, wrestling three, baseball and basketball two, as follows:

Football—G. R. Simms, J. M. Farrell, W. T. Davis, J. W. Crinkley, W. O. Green, R. L. Mitchell, R. H. McIlwaine (manager); wrestling—P. G. Garrison, J. C. Frierson (captain), J. W. Crinkley; track—S. R. Simms, D. M. Calhoun, D. S. Calhoun, W. M. Treverton, M. C. O'Neal, J. A. King (manager), B. F. Webb; baseball—K. V. Woodham (captain), C. O. Cathey, W. T. Davis; basketball—T. F. Anderson (captain), R. S. Calhoun.

It will be noticed that the captains of basketball and wrestling are included in the above list. In scholarship, the officers are equally well represented, the following ten men being assistants in some subject: R. H. McIlwaine, R. H. Bradford, H. B. Arbuckle, W. O. Puckett, W. T. Davis, C. C. Trabue, T. L. Short, G. H. Zimmerman. Five of these men are on the honor roll for the past semester as follows: Zimmerman, J. B. Kuykendall, T. L. Short, H. B. Arbuckle.Captains baseball, and there were also W. B. Bradford and T. C. Green. The faculty has viewed the good progress made by W. O. Green and more efficient men. In other campus activities, the Glee Club is represented by J. S. McCrae (president), S. M. Withers (secretary-treasurer), T. H. Hamilton (conductor), D. M. Calhoun, and R. S. Lowrance, Jr. The Court of Control includes C. C. Murchison and T. F. Anderson. The Davidsonian staff includes W. S. Broyles (business manager) and Julian Lake (assistant business manager). T. L. Short is president of the C. E. Training Class; P. J. Garrison is president of the Volunteer Band; J. B. Kuykendall is manager of the Students’ Store, and others hold important positions on the campus.

Peevish Pete—"I didn’t get much sleep last night.”
Solomon—"What was the trouble?”
P. P.—“The window shade was pulled up.”
Sol.—"Why didn't you pull it down?”
P. P.—“I couldn't reach across the street.”

First Chorus Girl—“What are you doing now, Mazie? I never see you in the theatre any more.”
Second Chorus Girl—“Oh, an automobile insurance company is paying $500 a month not to wear short skirts on windy days on streets where traffic is heavy.”

Fair One (to tourist who is shaving outside his tent)—“Do you always shave outside?”
Tourist—“Certainly, do you think I’m fur-lined?”

Ugly Stranger—“Throw up your hands. I’m going to shoot you.”
Hudgins—“What for?”
Stranger—“I always said that if I ever met a man uglier than I, I'd kill him.”
Hudgins—“Am I uglier than you?”
Stranger—“You certainly are.”
Hudgins—“Well, then, go ahead and shoot.”

Some of the friends of the college have entertained fears and doubts concerning the R. O. T. C. at Davidson College, because it seems inappropriate, to say the least, for a Christian college to be engaged in the training of soldiers. The faculty reply to this, which was given with only two dissenting votes, is that, after seven years of careful observation, it cannot discover the least trace of militaristic spirit in our students who have taken this training for four years and have won their commissions as lieutenants. As proof that our students are not led to choose the life of the soldier, we need only mention the fact that only one student out of the many hundreds has continued military life after leaving Davidson. The faculty is backing our R. O. T. C. and is assured that it will help us to make strong and loyal friends of the college.

Distinguished Officer Has Aided Department in Many Ways

Col. Frank W. Rowell, U. S. Army, has made special efforts in the past to get officer instructors for the Military Department who were in sympathy with the ideals and aims of Davidson. His personal interest has been manifested in various other ways. Davidson College feels he is its friend, and the feeling of cordiality is reciprocated. The manner in which he has spoken of the college at other places from time to time is commendable. Only last summer at Camp McClellan, Colonel Rowell cited Davidson College as a striking example of how a college should support its R. O. T. C. unit, and at this time he spoke in most favorable terms of the work being done by the unit.

To enable the friends of Davidson to know something more about this distinguished army officer, it is of interest to note several things of a somewhat personal nature connected with Colonel Rowell’s career. In distinction from other officers, Colonel Rowell was appointed a second lieutenant in the U. S. Army by special act of Congress at the age of 18. The age required by law for the receipt of this commission is 21, and the appointment of Colonel Rowell was in recognition of his ability to efficiently perform the duties of a commissioned officer at his age.

In connection with R. O. T. C. work, Colonel Rowell’s experience has been as extensive, probably, as that of any officer in the Army. He was one of the first officers to be connected with such work in an active capacity and was the first P. M. S. and T. at Auburn University, which has held the War Department's distinguished college rating in unbroken annual succession since 1920. After leaving Auburn, he was closely connected with R. O. T. C. work while on duty with the War Department and later was assigned as R. O. T. C. officer of the Fourth Corps Area, the office he now fills.

Last year, Colonel Rowell was largely responsible for Davidson's R. O. T. C. getting the “D.C.” award. This was brought about, first, by his recommendation that the college be inspected by War Department inspectors for the award, and, second, by giving the officers on duty here valuable information concerning such inspections and making constructive criticism of such nature that when the inspection took place, the inspectors were convinced that the honor should be given to the college.

FOSTER CHOSEN AS HEAD (Continued from page 1)

H. B. Arbuckle, manager; C. J. Albright, leader of the jazz orchestra; and T. H. Hamilton, leader of the symphony orchestra. The old officers will maintain control over the club until about the latter part of April when the new ones will be installed. The main program for the year was completed with the trip to Greensboro and Winston-Salem last month, but a few more shorter trips are being planned in order to put the club in better financial shape. Taking all in all, with the new officers and only a few losses in the ranks of the present members, the prospects for a good club and a successful year are encouraging.

A young woman of Cincinnati was talking lately about tobacco and tobacco raising. “I should like ever so much to see a tobacco field,” she said, “especially when it is just plugging out.”

No wonder Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. swung ‘round to Chesterfield. NATURAL TOBACCO TASTE—that’s reason enough! Chesterfield choice has to be tasted. Food must not be smothered by sauces. And if this were true of nothing else on earth, it’s true for tobacco. Nothing can improve on natural tobacco taste. They satisfy—and yet, they’re MILD.