**THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927**

Due to the extra large number of sport stories this week and also to the increase in the size of the paper, page six has been designated as a second sport page, and several important sport stories have been placed on this page. This will not be continued, but will be done only in this extra issue.

The 10 to 5 score of the Duke game makes things look a little more one-sided than they really were. The Wildcats made many more errors than the Blue Devils, but they played good ball all the way through and worked together well. Their inability to hit in the pinches, however, and the exceptionally good hitting of the Duke team ran the score up quite a bit and made the game look like an altogether one-sided affair. The Blue Devils deserve especial credit for their hitting. They knocked out four homers during the game, and four home runs in one game is not to be sniffed at by any team. Crawford was the only member of the home team able to knock a home run, and it was knocked when there was nobody on base. It would have meant a good bit more if it could have been saved till one of the times when there were three men on base, but that might be asking too much. A home run is a home run, and when a man knocks one, we can’t complain if it happens not to be at the very best time.

The Wofford Terriers started off the year right by defeating the Wildcats 4 to 2 in their initial college game of the year. The Wildcats scored once in the first and again in the third inning, but after the third were able to make no more runs and only one more hit.

The recent tennis match between “Big Bill” Tilden and Bob Crosland, former Davidson student and outstanding tennis player, has created quite a bit of interest, and should be of special interest to Davidson men. Tilden defeated Crosland 6-2, 6-1, but he had to step around pretty lively to do it. Crosland showed up mighty well in the recent South Atlantic tournaments held in Atlanta, and promises to make quite a name for himself on the courts. He is city open champion of Charlotte now, and should win other titles if he keeps up his good playing.

The local net team is also showing up good. The victory over the strong Furman team gives them a flying start toward an unusually successful season. Roddey and Alexander played especially well in the doubles matches, while McCutcheon and McAlpine showed good form in the singles.

Coaches Tilson and Mattox worked mighty well together in the game last week with the Charlotte Road Club. “Tex” struck out eight men in the five innings he pitched, and walked only one man. If Tilson and “Monk” Mattox could have been used in the regular varsity games, the score would very probably have told quite a different story in several instances. The Wildcats have lost quite a few games this year, but the Lenoir-Rhyne and Furman games make up for all the mistakes that have been made. The win over Furman by a 13 to 5 score sounds mighty good and speaks mighty well for the fighting ‘Cats. If they could just “get going” in all the games as well as they did in these two games, there’s no telling what they might do.

The final notice of the Mission Institute, to be held the last of this month, is made to the students. This conference will be conducted by E. Darby Fulton, of the Foreign Missions Board of the Church, and all those who are interested in work of that sort are asked to see Hebe McIlwaine, in order that appointments for conferences with Mr. Fulton can be made. Don’t delay if you want to talk to the leader of this institute, as the schedule of appointments will be made out shortly.

FOR THAT TASTE OF Home Cooking On Your Way Home NEW YORK CAFE 29 West Trade St., CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Wildcats made a good showing.

Golfers Play Fine Game But Lose to Tech Team

In spite of playing an excellent game, the Davidson golfers met defeat at the hands of the strong Tech team on the Charlotte links Saturday afternoon before a large gallery, the score being ten to twenty. Both teams showed excellent playing. Tech’s team was composed of Watts Gunn, captain, Irvin, Smith, and J. H. Williams. Those who made up the Wildcat team were McGill, Wolfe, Martin, and Love.

Watts Gunn, captain and noted Atlanta golfer, played the Charlotte County Club course in 71, which is one under par, but failed to show up so well in the afternoon match. In the morning match, McGill of Davidson was defeated by Gunn, while Wolfe defeated Irvin. The others being 36 in the afternoon foursome, which was also one under par, this making the first 27 holes in two less than par. Watts scored one-fourth of Tech's points and lost one. His last nine holes were overshadowed by his morning match.

In the afternoon foursome, Wolfe and McGill played Irvin and Gunn. Wolfe was paired with Irvin and McGill with Gunn. By excellent playing, Wolfe won three of the five points for Davidson, while McGill won one point by defeating Gunn on the last nine. Gunn at the beginning won the first hole and had McGill four down at the turn. The greatest feat of the first nine holes was the 25-foot putt by Gunn on the fourth hole. This was a very hard shot to make and shows great skill and excellent playing on Gunn’s part, while McGill also showedBrilliant playing, Irvin was completely outplayed by Wolfe in the afternoon foursome. Wolfe winner of Davidson's ten points. In the twosomes, Joe Williams and Moreland Smith, both of Tech, won three points each defeating Love and Martin. They also scored three points in the foursome, won over Irvin. Watts Gunn went around in six. Rev. W. C. Frierson, ’18, has changed his address from Blackey, Ky., to Johnson City, Tenn. Rev. C. M. Campbell, ’13, of Madisonville, Tenn., has accepted a call of the Pratt City Church, Ala, and began work in his new field on April 1st. J. B. Pharr, deputy sheriff, Charlotte ’18, of Charlotte, former is now in charge of the branch of the United States Employment Bureau, which reopened in the Queen City April 1.

Hard Hitting Blue Devil Nine Outpoints Wildcats
Wins by Ten to Five Score—Five Homeruns Are Knocked

On Monday, April 4th, the Duke baseball nine, by poling out 13 safeties (4 of which were home runs), swamped the Davidson nine by a score of 10 to 5. The game was long drawn out on account of the hard hitting of both teams and the many errors of the Davidson outfit. The Wildcats secured 10 bingles but failed to hit in the pinches, while the timely hits of the Blue Devils along with six Wildcat errors enabled them to double the score. Crawford hit one home run making a total of five for the afternoon. Each team used two pitchers, Johnson relieving Leight in the seventh for the visitors while Meadows took Wells' place during the same inning for the home team.

The box score is as follows:

Duke
AB R H O A
Bunn, lf 5 1 2 0 0
Saunders, cf 4 1 2 0 0
Gethen, 3b 4 1 3 0 3
Rowland, rf 5 1 1 0 0
Weaver, 1b 5 1 1 10 0
Ingram, c 4 1 1 9 0
Broome, ss 4 0 0 2 2
Wittick, 2b 4 2 2 2 2
Weight, p 2 0 0 0 2
Johnson, p 2 2 1 0 1
Total 39 10 13 27 8

Davidson
AB R H O A
Woodard, lf 5 0 1 0 0
Glenn, 2b 5 0 2 2 2
Davis, 1b 4 0 0 10 0
Bast, cf 4 0 1 4 0
Johnson, c 5 0 0 4 0
Blackwell, ss 4 0 0 4 0
McGeachy, rf 4 1 0 0 0
Crawford, 3b 4 2 2 1 1
Murray, p 1 0 0 0 0
Meadows, p 1 0 0 0 0
Gathy, p 1 0 0 0 0
Total 36 5 10 27 12

X Batted for Murray in fourth.
XX Batted for Glenn in eighth.

Duke 002 005 120—10 13 2
Davidson 010 000 130—5 10 6
Umpire: Brandon.

Track Stars Make Good Records in Initial Meet

Although the Wildcat track men have lost both meets of the season so far—those with V. P. I. and with North Carolina College—some good records have been made and quite a number of points piled up by the local boys. In the meet with V. P. I. Currie set a new record for the 220-yard dash, making the run in 21.8 seconds. The old record was held by Captain Goodykoontz at 22 seconds. In the Tech relays at Atlanta last Saturday Currie placed second in both the 100 and the 220-yard dashes. Captain Goodykoontz has been held back by a bad ankle, but shows improvement every day now. D. M. Calhoun is keeping up his good record in the high jump. He cleared the bar at 5 feet 11 inches in the meet with N. C. State. At present the Davidson record is 5 feet 11 1-4 inches. Sims has shown up well in the high and low hurdles. He has garnered a first place, two second places, and a third place from these events so far.

Next Saturday, April 16, a meet will be held in Columbia with the University of South Carolina. This meet is usually a close and hard-fought contest, but the Wildcats should be able to come out on top. According to the results of the meets held thus far John Currie is high-point man with a total of 20 points. Sims is second with 12 points, and D. M. Calhoun third with 8 points. The other men have made points as follows: Captain Goodykoontz 6, Five 6, Leftwich 6, Bintney 4, E. Brown 4, O'Neil 4, Treverton 4, Bohannon 3, Stigler 3, Kell 3, Bailey 3, Melton 2, Lincoln 1, Flinn 1, Sloop 1.

Weekly Definition
Courting: A hugging and kissing match, usually resulting in a draw.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see VERNON S. BROYLES.
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

MAYHEW’S
Where every effort is made to SATISFY
And where $4.00 buys a ticket good for $6 worth of work
J. T. EMBREY, Agent
BRIGGS ARRINGTON, TOM ADAMS, Assistants
PHONE 240

EAT AT THE
ASTOR LUNCH
THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Introducing to the readers of The Davidsonian
MR. GEORGE BRYAN (Davidson 1875-76)
Member of the Board of Trustees and Attorney

SOUTHERN FRUIT CO.
DEALERS IN FRUIT WHERE QUALITY COUNTS
4th and College Sts.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.