THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1927

Davidson Alumni Gather in New York

Alumnus Escapes

Alumni Officials Plan Organization For Enthusiastic Semi-Annual Meet

Seventeen Former Students at Lively Davidson Conclave

“WIRE WILDCATS”

Object to Numerous Appeals for Money—Secretary Invited to Spring Meeting on March 13

Seventeen enthusiastic alumni of Davidson College met at the Advertising Club, 23 Park Avenue, New York City, last Friday night, November 11th, in the annual fall meeting of the New York Alumni Association, the gathering being characterized by “the Davidson spirit which reigned supreme,” according to one report of the meeting.

Arrangements had previously been made by W. P. Anderson, ’07, president of the organization, who had sent out attractive invitations to Davidson alumni in New York City and vicinity and others in nearby New Jersey towns. He was in charge of the program Friday night.

The meeting opened with the singing of “O Davidson” and “College Ties,” led by T. C. Barr, ’26, former member of the Davidson College Glee Club, and now a student at Union Theological Seminary, New York. During the evening practically every Davidson man present made talks, discussing “the problems of Davidson,” and recalling the various events occurring during their stay here.

Among those especially mentioned in reports reaching Davidson were Mr. Anderson, E. A. Beaty, ’21, for two years English professor at Davidson, but now doing graduate work at Columbia University and connected with the New York University faculty; H. H. Johnston, ’14; U. S. Alexander, '15, who recently moved to New York from Charlotte; E. G. Routt, ’10, and Prof. H. B. Dendy, who is not an alumnus of Davidson but was connected with the faculty here for a year.

It was pointed out by President Anderson that the repeated calls upon alumni for funds would materially cease, he thought, with the completion of Chambers building, the Duke fund being able to take care of most matters of finance that arose. He was attempting to combat statements made by some alumni that every letter they receive from Davidson contained appeals for funds.

During the evening a motion was made and seconded that the New York Association wire the Davidson football team at Chapel Hill a message of encouragement upon the eve of the battle with their ancient foe. This was done. They showed keen interest in the success of Davidson College athletics, and discussed this at length.

It was decided to hold the spring meeting on the night of March 13th, which is the anniversary of the founding of Davidson College, the meeting to be in the nature of an informal dinner. It was voted by the association that the alumni secretary be requested to make an especial effort to attend this gathering of New York alumni.

Alumni present were H. A. Johnston, ’03; A. S. Dennison, ’05; W. P. Anderson, ’07; Prof. E. G. Routt, '10; H. H. Hill, ’14; U. S. Alexander, '15; Prof. R. C. Garth, ’19; Dr. J. R. Boulware, ’21; Prof. E. A. Beaty, ’21; H. A. Hill, ’21; W. W. Roberts, ’22; A. M. Hillhouse, '24; J. B. Hunter, ’24; T. C. Barr, ’26; C. E. Houston, ’26; R. M. Menzies, ’27; F. S. Wilkinson, '27, and H. B. Dendy, former professor at Davidson College.

“Would you marry me for my money?”
“No, I don’t want to turn pro.”
—Sou’wester.

Now comes the story of the absent-minded professor who rolled under the dresser and waited for his collar button to find him.

Personal

News has just been received at the alumni office of the death in Pasadena, California, last May 18th, of Rev. Baxter D. D. Greer, graduate in the class of 1874. Friends and classmates of Mr. Greer will be grieved to learn of his death.

Rev. E. G. Lilly, ’19, brother of Prof. Henry T. Lilly, ’18, has accepted a call to the Vine Street Presbyterian Church, of Birmingham, Ala. The Church to which Mr. Lilly goes is the Church which was formerly under the pastorate of Rev. H. M. Moffett, D.D., now pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church. Mr. Lilly has been pastor of the Millersburg, Ky, Presbyterian Church.

J. B. Clark, ’05, of Fayetteville, N. C., was the principal speaker at the Fayetteville Rotary Club luncheon recently. Mr. Clark, who is president of the Fayetteville Kiwanis Club and a candidate for the democratic nomination in the sixth congressional district, chose as the theme of his address, “Citizenship,” and lamented the dearth of leadership which is prevalent today.

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., ’06, president of the Union Theological Seminary was chosen recently to deliver a series of addresses in connection with the annual week of prayer, which is observed by the Fayetteville, N. C., Y. M. C. A.

The leadership of Woodrow McKay, ‘15, prominent automobile dealer of Lexington, N. C., was the subject of a news item which appeared in a recent issue of the Ford News, official organ of the Ford Motor Company. Mr. McKay was cited as a prominent sponsor of commercial aviation in the United States. He is chairman of the Lexington Chamber of Commerce aviation committee, the importance of this post having increased considerably with the recent revival of aviational interest.

Rev. Edgar Woods, ’19, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, of Salisbury, N. C., was chosen by the Concord Presbytery to succeed Rev. F. A. Barnes, '95, pastor of the Gilwood and Bethpage churches, as a member of the Davidson College Board of Trustees. Mr. Barnes goes to Micaville on December 1st, to take up new home mission duties.Patterson, '03, recently resigned as pastor of the Prattville Presbyterian Church to accept a call from the Clover, S.C., Presbyterian Church. Dr. J. N. H. Summerell, '73, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of New Bern, N.C., was one of the principal speakers at the nineteenth anniversary celebration of the First Church of Anderson, S.C. Rev. John McSween, '08, pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church of Anderson, also spoke at the celebration. Rev. R. F. Kirkpatrick, D.D., '97, is pastor of this historic church. C. Greer Davis, '27, as song-leader, recently took an important part in the evangelistic services conducted by Rev. E. L. Wilson at Hazel Glen, Ark. Rev. A. C. Summers, '22, has recently moved from Kenly, N.C., to New Haven, Conn., 2219 Yale Station. Rev. George Summey, '70, has moved from New Orleans, La., to 106 E. 7th St., Austin, Texas. Dr. Sellers Mark Crisp, '16, of Greenville, S.C., and Miss Rose Nowell, of Coleraine, S.C., will be married early in the spring, according to news which has just reached the alumni office.

Injury in Wreck

A news dispatch, appearing in a recent issue of the Columbia State, tells of a collision between a heavy sedan driven by Rev. H. R. Murchison, '93, of Columbia, S.C., and a light touring car driven by J. J. Way, of Elloree, S.C. The accident occurred just south of Springfield, S.C., on October 20th. Mr. Murchison’s car was overturned by the impact and destroyed by fire. Mr. Murchison and Miss Essie Morris, the other occupant of the car, both escaped without injuries. The Elloree car, occupied by Mr. Way, Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Braswell, and two Braswell children, was badly damaged and all of the occupants more or less injured. One of the children, Johnnie Braswell, was taken unconscious and possibly fatally injured to the office of Dr. J. R. Dodenhoff, of Springfield, where he was given emergency treatment.

Many Features at Davidson Theatre

“The Gay Retreat,” featuring the two comedians of “What Price Glory,” comes to the Davidson Theater next Friday as one of the feature pictures of the week. “Seventh Heaven,” starring Janet Gaynor, opens Monday for a two-day run. It is a very interesting French war story. The program is as follows:
Thursday—Glenn Tryon in “Painting the Town.”
Friday—“The Gay Retreat.”
Saturday—Ken Maynard in “Gun Gospel.”
Monday and Tuesday—Janet Gaynor in “Seventh Heaven.”
Wednesday—Esther Ralston in “Spotlight.”
Thursday matinee and night—Virginia Valli in “Ladies Must Dress.”

New Addresses of Associations in Carolina Cities

The November 9th issue of the Presbyterian Standard contained a list of returned missionaries from China, with their new addresses. A number of Davidson alumni were included in the list, their names with new addresses being reproduced below:
Mr. Warren M. Cox, '24, care Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
Rev. W. C. Cumming, '18, pastor First Presbyterian Church, Henderson, N.C.
Rev. E. S. Currie, '12, Mission Court, Ginter Park, Richmond, Va.
Rev. P. C. DuBose, '02, Davidson, N.C.
Rev. G. A. Hudson, '18, 1917 Park St., Columbia, S.C.
Dr. A. A. McFadyen, '90, 407 Green St., Morganton, N.C.
Rev. H. L. Reaves, '11, pastor Presbyterian Church, Menlo, Ga.
Rev. D. W. Richardson, '02, Samuel Davies Hall, Mission Court, Ginter Park, Richmond, Va.
Rev. Locke White, '13, assistant pastor First Presbyterian Church, Staunton, Va.
Rev. C. W. Worth, '20, Carthage, N.C.

Leave November 28th for Tour of Two States

PLAN EXPANSION

Asheville, Greensboro, Winston-Salem, and Greenville Included on Tentative Itinerary

The alumni office within a short time is planning a series of local alumni association meetings all over the south and have tentatively outlined a tour that will take in meetings at Greensboro, Winston-Salem, Asheville, and Greenville, S.C. Letters have been written to presidents of associations in the towns which are already organized and to prominent alumni in those unorganized.

It was suggested that Greensboro meet on Tuesday night, November 29th; Winston-Salem on Wednesday, November 30th; Asheville on Thursday, December 1st; and Greenville, S.C., on Friday, December 2nd. Greensboro is an actively working organization, while Winston-Salem and Greenville had organizations in the past, but the Asheville group has never been in an association. Designation has been made on maps of all southern states, indicating the number of alumni in each town, and with this as a guide, the series of organization meetings are planned. The present number totals almost twenty, but it is the plan of alumni officials to double this number.

She—"Golf is a Scotch game, isn’t it?”
He—“Well, you can play it without.”

It costs a lot, but Camel must have the best

It is true that Camel is the quality cigarette, but it costs to make it so. To make it is costs the choicest crops of Turkish and Domestic tobaccos grown. It requires the expense of a blending that leaves nothing undone in the liberation of tobacco taste and fragrance.

But the fame that Camel has won is worth all the trouble. It has brought modern smokers a new realization of excellence. They are particular and fastidious and they place Camel first.

Your taste will delight itself in these choice tobaccos. Camels get better the more of them you smoke. Their subtle tastes are unfolded by experience. They are always delightfully smooth.

“Have a Camel!”