TH EDAVI
Vol. XIV FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 13, 1927 No. 15

Christian and McConnell Propose Two Changes in Student Body Constitution

New Amendments Deal With Liquor and Appeal

CHANGES ARE NEEDED

Court of Appeal Would Be Vested in the Senior Class by Amendment

Saturday morning at the student body meeting two proposed amendments to the Constitution were placed before the student body. These
proposed amendments were read and explained to the students and now will lie upon the table to be voted upon
after a period of ten days.

The first amendment was placed before the students by Joe McConnell. This amendment is in respect to Article 5, Section
2, which reads as follows: No student shall be guilty of drinking alcoholic liquors or having same in his possession
on the campus. The amendment will change this section to read as follows: No student shall be guilty of drinking
alcoholic liquors, being under the influence of, or having same in his possession on the campus.

The second proposed amendment was placed before the students by Bill Christian. This amendment is in respect to Article VI,
Section 6. The only change that is made in this section by the amendment is to place the retrial of
the accused, if the accuser or the accused feels that he has not received justice at the hands of the
Student Council, in the hands of the Senior Class instead of the hands of the Student Body. This proposed amendment
changes Article VI, Section 6, to read as follows: Should the accuser or the accused feel that he has not
derived justice at the hands of the Student Council, he may carry his case before the Senior Class. He shall
first notify of (Continued on page 5)

Salisbury “Y”, Seminary, and Glee Club to Give Concerts in North

Tentative plans for the Glee Club trip were announced early in the week by W. C. Green. Present plans call
for a personnel of 35 men composing the Glee Club, Jazz and Symphony Orchestras, and the Mandolin Club, to tour
the states of North Carolina and Virginia for some ten days beginning February 16th.

Stopping first in Winston-Salem, a concert will be given at Salem College before the young ladies of that institution. Then,
pressing northward to Roanoke, they will entertain the students of Hollins Institute—also a girl’s school. Coming then to Lynchburg for
a three-day stay, a program will be presented in the city and also one in the auditorium of Randolph-Macon College.
From Lynchburg the company goes to Farmville, where the State Normal is situated, to appear before that student body in
songs and stunts. Trekking onward to Blackstone, they will entertain the students of the college, which has the same name
as the town.

Coming homeward, they will appear before a Greensboro audience at the North Carolina College for Women and also will probably
be presented in Salisbury. Other announcements are forthcoming and numerous changes will doubtless be made before the time of departure.
Several nearby towns are desirous of having the Glee Club perform for them and some of the offers are being
considered at present.

A program was to be presented at the college on Friday, the 14th, but has been postponed until some future
time. Tentative arrangements have been made (Continued on page 5)

Salisbury, Seminary, and Wofford Will be Played During Coming Week

The Davidson basketball team has three very hard games next week. One of these is at Salisbury, while the other
two are staged at the Davidson Gym. These games are with Salisbury “Y”, January 13th; Theological Seminary, on January 15th,
and Wofford, on January 18th.

The Salisbury team is composed of former college stars and among these are Flake Laird, Davidson's great athlete; Jim Moore
and John Shanks, two more Wildcat stars, are on the team. With this array of Davidson men, who will be
aided by some of the very best men in the state, Salisbury will prove a team that will test the
locals to the limit.

On January 15th, the Ministers from Union Theological Seminary will invade the Wildcat stronghold. As yet, there have been few
reports concerning the strength of this team, but what rumors have come indicate that this quintet is a force that
will bear watching. The team will have no rest between the game on the 13th and this one so that
the strain on the wind and morale of the team will be great.

The Wofford Terriers meet the Wildcat team on the 18th. It is reputed that this team is taking all comers
successfully in South Carolina and that they are in line for the championship of the state. Of course, it is
too early to predict with any degree of accuracy the result of this game, but the Davidson team is going
to give all they have to win this contest, the first big game of the season. If the team shows
up as well as it has in the past few games, and continues to develop, the Terriers will have a
hard match.

The schedule of games for the rest of the season is as follows:
Feb. 1—Elon, Davidson.
Feb. 2—N. C. State, Raleigh. (Continued on page 2)

P. F. Jones Again Reviews Magazine

Lightning is brilliant; but it never strikes the same spot twice. Nor does “The Chameleon”—judging from a comparison of Number
2 with Number 1. Variety has been introduced to afford a pleasant novelty and freshness. And yet the canvass is
of the same sterling material on which the initial issue was so skillfully sketched. A certain high character of makeup
and arrangement has been attained and retained.

Even the most snobbish of literati must admit a liking for frontispieces. “The Chameleon” does well in continuing what it
is hoped will be an endless series of camera glimpses depicting typical Davidson scenes.

“The Chameleon” bears a point of resemblance in its contents to what might be termed “the conventional college magazine.” There
is, unfortunately, too much of sameness in an apparent aim of the several contributors. Contributors to “The Chameleon,” like their
brother authors from other institutions, strain their imagination and overwork their sometimes nebulous vocabulary in a tiresome attempt to be
collegiately chic. They want their readers to believe them originals and radicals in thought. Some noticeable general faults may bear
out this contention. In the first place, themes are chosen with whose subject matter the writer is not at all
familiar. A brief consideration of a smattering of philosophy; a slight acquaintance with mythology; a wide, but insufficiently wide, background
of general reading—these accomplishments are generally too weak to justify their exclusive use (Continued on page 8)

Ex-Mayor McDowell Dies Following an Extended Sickness of Many Weeks

Was Member of Highly Scholastic Class

SAW YEARS OF SERVICE

Class of 1869 Averaged 97.31 for Four Years to Establish New Record

F. Brevard McDowell, alumnus of Davidson of the class of 1869, died at the Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte last Friday
morning. He had been in failing health for some time and a patient at the hospital for several weeks.

Mr. McDowell graduated from Davidson in 1869 in the class that is the record class for scholarship here, the entire
class having made an average of 97.31 for the four years. Also, after the fire which destroyed Chambers, Mr. McDowell
presented the bell to the college, the old bell being destroyed.

After graduating from the University of Virginia with his law degree, he practiced law for a short while in Statesville,
but was never active in the practice. Shortly after, he moved to Charlotte, where he became identified with the Liddell
Company and in 1877 was elected to the office of alderman and later mayor. During his term of office many
notable improvements were made and introduced into the city government. His part in the building of Charlotte was significant.

During his term of office many notable improvements were made and introduced into the city government. His part in the
building of Charlotte was significant.

Frew Selected to Lead Freshman Class

The class of 1930 was given its official beginning last Monday morning when members of the Student Council called the
freshman class together.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

in that they This they did with Allan Frew, of Wee eV as; all freshmen order might elect a “president.
Charleston, being chosen as the leader, The Student Council presented six names to the body for its approval: Dick Reynolds,
Doc Allan, Doe Henderson, and Murray Christian. In addition, Tom Brohard and Jim Matthews were nominated from the floor. On
the first ballot, six men were closely contesting for the lead: Kugler, Zeb Long, Frew, and Doe. Kugler and Doe
Henderson were dropped as low men. On the next voting, Frew and Matthews were leading by a nice margin, with
Frew winning by a vote of 98 to 60 on the final ballot. Allan Frew, besides being interested in Y.M.C.A.
work on the campus and “Y” deputations, has associated himself with many organizations on the campus. He is a Scotchman,
being native-born. During past summers, he has worked in his home state. The election Monday marked the first official opportunity
for freshmen to vote, as heretofore the members of the class have not been allowed a voice in the student
government.

Well-Known Woodsman Comes to Davidson Campus

POET OF INDIANS

Has Notable Record in Literary World—Has Written Verse From Childhood

Lew Sarett, Professor of Public Speaking at Northwestern University, and famous woodsman, poet, and author, will speak in Shearer Hall
Monday, January 18th, at 7:30 p.m. Students, faculty, and townspeople are cordially invited. The lecture will be free. Lew Sarett
was born in a dirty slum section of Chicago. His father was a section hand, and, although loved by and
devoted to his family, could not make enough to support them in any degree of comfort. Later he got a
position in Marquette, Mich., and moved his family to South Marquette when Lew was eight or nine years old. This
was a small place, where Lew had an opportunity to run in the woods he loved so much. He built
a cabin in the woods and would often cut classes to go out and hunt rabbits. He went to school
most of the time, but when snow was on the ground, he would sometimes stay away as long as two
or three days at a time. When Lew was 11 years old, his father had to be at work away
from home, and he and his mother were forced to go back to Chicago and to live alone. Lew went
to work at odd jobs, and later got a job cleaning the employees’ washroom in a Chicago store at $2.50
a week. His next job was in a sweatshop delivering large bundles at $2.75 a week. After two years, his
father returned and took his family to Benton Harbor, Mich., where he had a job. Here Lew again had a
considerable opportunity to be in the woods he loved so much.

(Continued on page 2)

Charlotte Consolidated College Freshman Dies

During Holiday Season

Ollie L. Donaldson, Town Student, Succumbs to Heart Attack in Post Office

On returning to the campus after the holidays, the students were shocked to hear of the death of Ollie L.
Donaldson, a member of the freshman class. At the time of his death, Donaldson was working in the Davidson post
office, helping with the Christmas rush. He made a trip to Charlotte Monday night, December 20th, and returned late. Work
the next day started at 5:00 o'clock and Ollie began the day in high spirits. About 8:00 o'clock that night,
while scuffling with another employee of the post office, he suddenly collapsed and fell on the floor. He was rushed
to Dr. McConnell’s office where everything was done to revive him but all proved in vain. Dilation of the heart
was given by Dr. McConnell as the reason for this sudden death. Dr. McConnell stated that he thought that Donaldson
was dead when brought to his office. The deceased was never known to suffer from a weak heart and his
death was a surprise. Donaldson was an orphan, his only living relative being his grandfather, J. T. Donald.

(Continued on page 5)

ATTENTION REPORTERS

All men who are interested in Davidsonian work or who are already reporters for the paper are requested to turn
in their names, post office numbers, and room numbers, to W. L. Lingle, 211 West, or Stewart Gordon, 4° West,
sometime this week. The reportorial staff of the paper is being reorganized, and assignments will not be sent to any
man unless he has turned in his name or placed it on the list at the meeting last Monday night.
All interested parties are requested to turn in this information as soon as possible.

Three National Fraternities Convene During Period of Christmas Holidays

During the Christmas holidays, three national fraternities having chapters on the Davidson campus held national conclaves. This list includes Pi
Kappa Alpha, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Theta Upsilon Omega. These conventions were held in Atlanta, Boston, and New Wilmington, Pa.,
respectively. At the Pi Kappa Alpha convention, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle was again elected grand counselor of the national organization.
Three hundred and sixty-five delegates representing 70 active and 20 alumni chapters were present. Robert A. Smythe, of Atlanta, Ga.,
was elected grand treasurer for the 38th consecutive year. An extended business and social program was given which included a
dance at the Piedmont Driving Club and a banquet at the Atlanta Biltmore. The Beta Chapter of Davidson was forced
to turn over the fraternity scholarship cup to the Alpha Epsilon Chapter, losing out by two-tenths of a point. Jack
Montgomery, John Ellis, M. S. O'Neil, Ralph Smith, Walter Knox, and H. B. Arbuckle, Jr. and Sr., represented the Davidson
chapter.

Vernon North represented the North Carolina Theta Chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon at its convention in Boston. Three new chapters
were passed upon by the delegates and a petition from N. C. State was rejected. The new chapters are at
Montana, University of Michigan, and Norwich. In the official pin, the background of black was changed to a background of
Nazarene blue.

W. E. Phifer represented the Kappa Alpha Chapter of Theta Upsilon Omega at its national meeting. R. G. White, president
of the Alumni Chapter, was also in attendance and was appointed chairman of the Expansion Committee. The convention was held
at Westminster College. The convention next year will be held at the University of New Hampshire during the Christmas season.

Track Team Meets Strong Opponents

Manager Jim King has announced one of the most comprehensive track schedules in the history of Davidson College, which includes
seven meets covering a territory from Blacksburg, Va., to Atlanta, Ga. Davidson this season has a wealth of material on
hand from which an excellent track team can be developed to take care of the enlarged schedule. There are ten
letter men back from last year’s squad who won their letters in the following events: Grand and Goodykoontz, sprints; Lincoln
and Johannon, weights; Pinkney, middle distances; Sims, hurdles; R. I. Jennings, pole vault; D. M. Calhoun, high jump; and Penn,
who holds the school record for the two-mile. John Currie, '28, who was out of school for the fall term,
has returned and excellent things are expected for him this year. It will be remembered that in a meet held
between Davidson and Clemson in the spring of 1925, he unofficially broke Davidson's 100-yard dash record and made an excellent
showing in the 220 and 440 dashes. From last year’s freshman class, there is Bob Kell and Dick Flynn, in
sprints; John Ely, distances; Smith, high jump; and Dan Leftwich, in weights, all of whom made a fine showing. The
following is the schedule:

March 26—V. P. I., Blacksburg, Va.
April 2—N. C. State, Raleigh, N. C.
April 9—Tech Relay, Atlanta, Ga. (uncertain)
April 16—U. of S. C., Columbia, S. C.
April 23—Wake Forest, Davidson.
April 30—Duke, Davidson.
May 7—State Meet, Greensboro, N. C.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation of the provided OCR text.
