THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1927

Ramsey Leads Competitive Fire of Rifle Team in Second Meet

The members of the rifle team have been working consistently for the past week under the skillful direction of Lieut.
R. C. Beckett, of the R. O. T. C. department. The work has centered around the competitive firing with Oklahoma
A. & M. College and the University of Dayton. T. L. Ramsey, of the Sophomore class, took first honors in
the past contest, with a score of 368 out of a possible 400. The next nine men with their scores
are: Webb, J. B., 360; Vance, S. W., 359; Taylor, C. W., 344; Harrel, H. G., 352; Gudger, J. M.,
351; Lennon, E. D., 359; Crawford, G. W., 343; Short, T. L., 341; and Cathey, C. O., 340. This makes
a total score of 3,508 out of a possible score of 4,000. The scores have been submitted to the Fourth
Corp Area Headquarters, but as yet no report has been received as to the results of the contest. The team
is engaged this week in a contest with the University of Alabama and Florida Agricultural College.

Class Colors Are Chosen by Sophs

At a recent meeting of the Sophomore class, a committee consisting of Glenn Fry, D. F. Martin, and John Ely,
presented three sets of colors, the one chosen for the class color being gold and green. In order to facilitate
the selection, the Sophs had voted that a committee be appointed by the president to select three color combinations from
which the class as a whole would select their favorite. Glenn Fry, John Ely, and D. F. Martin were appointed
to serve on the committee. The suggested colors were orange and black, blue and white, and green and gold. Glenn
Fry, who is quite an artist, explained to the Sophs something of the art of colors. He showed why those
suggested were good combinations. After some discussion, the question was put to a vote. Green and gold was chosen almost
unanimously.

FIRST YEAR MEN RETURN (Continued from page 2)

Wake Forest was leading at the half by a score of 28-16. The Fresh came to life in the second
half and overcame the lead. The line-up at Wake Forest follows:

Davidson Position Wake Forest
Johnson (9) ------ RF ------ Johnson (4)
Pritchett (9) ------ LF ------ Hough
Smith, J. L. (3) -- Center -- McGavock (5)
Jones ------ RG ------ Calvert
Moore (3) ------ LG ------ Dorsett

Substitutions—Wake Forest: Harrimon (7), Faust (2), Marshall (1), Lawning (7), Weir (2), Wood (2). Davidson: Christian.

The last game of the trip was lost to Duke by the score of 51-41. The game was fought the
whole way. Pritchett, with 19 points, led the scoring for Davidson, while Werber, of Duke, accounted for 28 points in
this free-scoring contest. The line-up at Duke:

Davidson Position Duke
Johnson (11) ------ RF ------ Councillar (8)
Pritchett (19) ------ LF ------ Werber (28)
Smith, J. L. (4) ------ Center ------ Carpenter
McGavock ------ RG ------ Warren (12)
Moore (4) ------ LG ------ Jangoskie (2)

Substitutions — Duke: Birch (2), Buie, Lake. Davidson: Christian.

The showing of the Kittens on this trip was fairly good, considering their opposition. Duke Fresh are claiming the South
Atlantic championship and have yet to receive their first defeat. State has lost only to Duke. The Fresh were playing
without the services of their regular forwards, Baker and Mauze, who were unable to make the trip. McGavock and Moore,
playing these positions, did well considering their lack of training for them. Johnson’s play was hindered by a twisted ankle.
Pritchett, with a total of 43 points, showed the way to the Kitten team on the trip. The Fresh will
play Bingham Thursday night and Oak Ridge Friday night. Baker and Mauze will be in the line-up and the Kittens
are out to better their present standing.

Dr. and Mrs. David Venable Hudson announce the birth of David Venable, Jr., on February 1, 1927, at the Methodist
Mission, Pekin, China.

Pandenic and Eumenean Plan New Amalgamation

Reports of Committees to be Heard by Both Societies at Meeting Tonight

At the meeting of the Pandenic Literary Society on February 10th, plans were proposed with the intention that this society
should merge with the Eumenean Society into one. These plans were to be placed before the Eumenean Society on February
17th. This amalgamation, if passed by both societies, will take place next Thursday night. Both groups are at the present
time having fair meetings; however, it was thought that both societies could well be united into one energetic and expeditious
body. Last year similar plans were proposed, but the Pandenic Society refused to join. At this same time, the Philanthropic
and Eumenean societies combined. Committees were appointed from both societies to draw up agreements and refer them to the societies
at their next meetings. From the Pandenic, L. M. McCutcheon and H. Arbuckle were appointed. The Eumenean selected T. G.
McCutcheon, R. E. Kell, F. Daniels, and C. W. Williams.

DAVIDSON TEN YEARS AGO

By turning the calendar back one short decade we find that:

Davidson defeated Elon in an exciting although poorly played basketball game in what is now the Armory. The game, some
parts of which seemed rougher than necessary, ended 28 to 19. Two nights later Davidson lost a closely contested and
well-played game to the Statesville team, 30 to 28.

Dr. Martin left today to speak at the First Presbyterian Church, Columbia, S.C.

The class football series moved two steps nearer to completion when the Juniors defeated the Fresh in a hotly contested
and very interesting game under ideal weather conditions. The score was 7 to 0. The second game between the Fresh
and Sophs resulted in a scoreless tie when the Fresh, strengthened by the return of Crawford, seemed to gain almost
at will.

A series of lectures will be given this week by Mr. R. W. Connor, secretary of the North Carolina State
Historical Commission. He will discuss the contributions of the English, Germans, Scotch, Irish, and others.

The program for Junior Speaking has, after some discussion, been decided upon and the necessary arrangements made.

The debating finals were held in Shearer Hall to select the team to represent Davidson in the debate with Emory
and Roanoke. The question was, Resolved, That the United States should adopt a policy of universal compulsory military service.

The football schedule was finally completed, the two open dates being filled by Furman, which will be played November 3rd,
at Greenville, and Wake Forest, November 17th, the place to be decided later.

The students and townspeople heard an interesting address Thursday night by Rev. S. H. Hay, of Mooresville, who spoke on
My Religion and My Country.Plans for the forensic part of the Junior Speaking are being made along with other plans
for entertainment during this festive season. The preliminaries for this phase of the entertainment will be held on Tuesday night,
February 22nd, according to Henry Powell, vice-chairman of the Junior Week Committee. The speeches will be limited to ten minutes
and six men will be chosen from among those contesting. Powell states that some 15 men have already signified their
intentions of entering this contest. Others will probably be added to the list before the try-outs are held.

This contest, which is the very foundation of this gala occasion, has, in times past, brought forth some of the
best speaking talent in the Junior Class. Last year Harllee Branch, Jr., was the winner with his ably-handled subject of
“A Newer South.” Don Stewart won second place. All men who intend to enter this contest should see Powell at
once.

The picture shows which the “Y” will put on every Saturday night for the students will be of a kind
to make more appeal to the student body than they have up to this time. Several first-run pictures have been
engaged and negotiations for some pictures now being made are under way. “Tell It To The Marines,” which was due
to have come here last week, will be here this Saturday night. This show needs no mentioning. All those who
have seen it can testify to its quality and all those who have not seen it should not miss it.
Next, there comes the “Fire Brigade.” This and "Tell It To The Marines” are the last of the four big
shows which the “Y” recently secured. These shows are of the expensive type that rarely come to small towns. The
grade of the shows that the “Y” offers each weekend varies as the student body backs it. “The Four Horsemen
of the Apocalypse,” that famous picture that gave Rudolph Valentino his name as “the greatest lover on the screen,” will
have a reshowing here soon. This picture stands on its merits and when we think that besides being the greatest
show of Valentino, it is probably the greatest war picture yet produced, that is enough to induce anyone to see
it. Roman Navarro and Alice Terry in "A Night of Love” is just one of the pictures that have been
booked. Norma Shearer, in her latest production, will also come here soon. To accompany these good pictures there is the
added attraction of special music. Good music can go a long way toward making a good show great. The combinations
of good music and the good shows that have been booked should make an appeal hard to resist.

Reception is Held in New Civic Hall

On Tuesday evening of last week, the Civic Club of Davidson received its friends in its attractive new hall on
South Main Street, just recently completed. Most of the citizens of Davidson called between the hours of 8:00 and 10
p.m., and were welcomed by Mrs. W. R. Grey and Mrs. L. Brady, the incoming and outgoing presidents, and other
officers for the year. Punch and cake were served throughout the period. Mrs. E. J. Erwin, chairman of the finance
committee, presented the key of the building to Mrs. Grey, the president. In accepting the building, of which the key
was a symbol, Mrs. Grey outlined the plans and purposes of the club. Both speakers expressed their gratitude to those
who have come to its aid in this hour of expansion. Gifts of money and of equipment and of shrubs
for the small grounds have been received. The club had occupied the room above the drug store for 13 years,
thus providing a hall where every municipal meeting in Davidson has met: health banquets, Red Cross meetings, etc., etc. For
this year, the organization is divided into three sections: The school committee, with Mrs. Cloyd Goodrum as chairman; the town
improvement committee, with Mrs. J. Moore McConnell as chairman; the library committee, with Mrs. G. R. Vowles as chairman.

MINISTERIAL BAND

Bishop Mikell, of the Atlanta Diocese, addressed the Ministerial Band Sunday afternoon on the qualifications needed in a minister of
the gospel. The meeting opened with President Davis in charge. A devotional program was first given. The singing was led
by Pritchett (Junior), then the prayer service was led by Pritchett (Fresh) and Murchison. The subject of Bishop Mikell’s message
was “Things that men should have when they enter the ministry.” In his talk, he stressed four main points which
are essential to the successful minister. First: Personality, a minister must have the personality to hold his congregation together and
to be a leader in the community. Second: Manners, no congregation would endure a minister without manners. This means not
only his manner in the pulpit but his manner of living, and his social manners. Third: Love of man, a
preacher must be inspired in his work by love and sympathy for his fellow man. Fourth: Love of God, and
last there must be a transcending force to drive the minister on, which is the Love of God.

Let old Squire Pipe be the judge... His Honor, old Squire Pipe is unquestionably the world’s ablest judge of pipe
tobaccos. Who else is by nature, training, and experience so well-qualified to try a tobacco and hand down a decision
on it? So, in the case of Granger Rough Cut, the plea is that Judge Pipe’s verdict be accepted as
FINAL! To make a long brief brief: Character witnesses everywhere have sworn to Granger’s sterling quality. Experts have vouched for
the superiority of its rough cut. Chemists have testified that the new “glassine-sealed” foil-pouch keeps the tobacco in perfect condition.
Finally, it has been shown that by using this foil-pouch (instead of a costly tin) it is possible to sell
Granger at just ten cents. On these arguments, Granger rests its case! A couple of pipefuls will convince Squire Pipe
that it is the world’s greatest pipe tobacco... and any good judge of tobaccos will confirm the decision!

GRANGER ROUGH CUT

The half-pound vacuum tin is forty-five cents, the foil-pouch package, sealed in glassine, is ten cents.

Tudor Hall Clothes

The College Type

RATCHET WEAVE

A STUDY IN STYLE

$35.00

WE LOOKED FAR AND WIDE for a fabric that would create enthusiasm among college men and those who favored college
styles. We found it--Tudor Hall Ratchet Weave, A Style-Plus Creation. It is now being presented in several good-looking patterns for
Spring.

BELK BROTHERS CO. AT CHARLOTTE, N. C.

At Eu Hall Thursday, Feb. 24 we invite your inspection of our New Spring Line.
