6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927

Easter Service at ‘Y’ Vespers Sunday! — Town News

Sunday evening will witness a special Easter “Y” Vesper Service. For the past several years it has been the custom
of the “Y” to hold a student program during the Easter Holidays. At first, it was planned to have the
Glee Club give some music at this time; however, since the Glee Club and Quartet will be out of town,
it will be impossible to hold the program as first planned. The program as present is rather indefinite but will
be completed in time to arrange a good program for Sunday evening.

There will be no outside speakers, but the “Y” officials are endeavoring to persuade Jim Appleby, secretary of the “Y,”
to give a short talk. If Jim consents, it will be the first time that he has ever spoken before
the local “Y.” The program will be a devotional program featuring the spirit of Easter and will be entirely conducted
by the students and Y officers. Two characteristics are promised which should be of interest to everyone: they are Student
Program and Brevity. If the weather is fair and warm, the services are to be held out-of-doors. If held outside,
they will be conducted in the new stadium. This service, if held outside, will be the first service held out-of-doors
since this time two years ago. The service held two years ago was a failure and so discouraged the “Y”
that an attempt was not thought of last year; however, this year’s “Y” believes that it can put it over.

The following Sunday, Dr. Workman, head of the Religious Department of the University of North Carolina, will speak at the
“Y” Vespers. Dr. Workman is the son of the President of Henderson-Brown College, Ouachita, Ark. He was formerly a professor
in Southern Methodist University at Dallas, Texas, but left there to go to North Carolina where he is now.

The Sunday following the appearance of Dr. Workman here, the Honorable Clyde R. Hoey, of Salisbury, will speak at the
evening services. He is a noted lawyer and ex-congressman.

Dr. Frazer Hood, of Davidson College, will speak at the Rotary Club in Salisbury sometime in the near future on
the science and art of salesmanship.

Dr. and Mrs. Hood and daughter, accompanied by Mr. Mac. Austin, have recently returned from a trip through the country
down to the magnolia gardens of Charleston, S.C.

Miss Maude Vinson and Mrs. Buckner spent the past weekend in Montreat. They drove through, being accompanied by Mrs. Lyon’s
mother, who is visiting her at her home in Davidson. Mrs. R. J. Dougherty gave a tea for Mrs. Lyon’s
mother last Wednesday.

Rev. J. W. Lafferty, of the class of 1883 at Davidson, visited his sisters, the Misses Lafferty, last week. Rev.
Mr. Lafferty makes his home at Rome, Ga.

The Book-Lovers’ Club will meet with Mrs. E. F. Shewmake at 4 p.m., Friday of this week.

Many Inspiring Sermons Offered by Dr. Gammon During Revival Services

The annual spring revival services were drawn to a close by Dr. Gammon Wednesday, April 6th. While here, Dr. Gammon
delivered some very inspiring talks, and in his spare time, he held private interviews with a number of the students,
solving many of their perplexing problems. During his meeting, Dr. Gammon was ably assisted by the Columbia Quartet, composed of
Messrs. McIntosh, Cartledge, McInnis, and Dendy. Mr. McIntosh is a former Davidson student, of the class of '26.

The initial sermon was preached in the church on Sunday morning, the subject being, “Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall
he also reap.” This sermon had a bearing on all others delivered with the one general idea that “If we
were to have eternal life, we must live a life of righteousness while on earth.” “One thing thou lackest” was
his text used at vesper service Sunday afternoon. As an illustration of his text, Dr. Gammon told of a man
in his town who had youth, riches, personality, and character, but still was not happy—he lacked theTastes of each member
are likely to be better written than styled compositions. The only way to obtain this was to get rid of
his riches, which was the one thing that put him in the wrong relationship with God—the only way to accomplish
this is through faith. We must connect a scale of values until Jesus Christ is above all things, and a
life of righteousness must be lived. Dr. Gammon pointed out that God calls on us to give up that which
is dearest to us and follow Him.

For Monday morning chapel, Dr. Gammon selected as his topic, “Let your light so shine.” In this, Dr. Gammon urged
us to consistently use our influence and responsibility in reflecting the life of Jesus Christ in order that we may
aid in leading others to Christ. In the evening, he talked on “Judas Iscariot, the man who was trusted above
all others but being a traitor by nature, betrayed Christ.” Little is known about Judas until he came to Jesus.
His sins originated in his love for money and false ideas, starting off as little but enlarging until they were
climaxed by his betrayal of Jesus Christ.

“Power” was the subject of the next talk. He said that the power of the Church of today cannot be
compared with the power of the early Church. Their power was not physical power nor material power, but spiritual power,
the source of which is the Holy Spirit and can only be obtained through prayer. It is a great lack
in the modern Church.

A very interesting talk was given on Daniel, the man who was unaltered in his belief. Daniel may be contrasted
to Judas Iscariot, in that he had a definite purpose in life, he was a man of moral and physical
courage, he was a man that put spiritual things first. Dr. Gammon urged the students not to be a Judas,
but a Daniel, to have high ideals and to put God first. Dr. Gammon selected the well-known passage of the
Bible, “Seek ye first the kingdom of God,” as his next subject.

Make thee still better grades, O my son,
As swift semesters run;
Leave thy low flunking past;
Let each new grade, higher than the last
Bind thee thy sheepskin secure and fast
’Til thou at length art freed,
Leaving thy unused textbooks
For some other poor fool to read.
—Symnonymous.

You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, Davidson, N.C.

The articles appearing in this are largely didactic, better suited for the magazine, but it was the first attempt of
representative college journalism at Davidson. It was printed at the Observer Printing House. “Timely Topics” is modeled on the “Charlotte
Observer.” If anything is amiss in it, the readers are requested to blame the model. It was a mirror of
campus life of those days. There is a column headed “Davidson Doings” which well applies to today.

Senior speaking was held April 12th and 13th, in the old chapel. The stage was well decorated with the class
colors of 1895 and with evergreens (by the freshman class). The speaking was very good and only one or two
had to be prompted in their speeches. Messrs. Martin, Underwood, and Wilson were chosen as representatives to speak at commencement.
Another article reflecting the life and spirit of the campus is a program of the dramatization of the history of
the editing class.

Correct this sentence: “And they went to live with their mother-in-law, and lived happily ever after.” Which gives rise to
the following advice: “If it comes to the worst, don’t go live with your mother-in-law; let her come live with
you.”

MEN’S SECTION
Smart New Suits With Two Pairs Pants $30.00, including navy blue, cheviots, also gray, blue, and tan mixtures; collegiate styles,
splendid selections, specially priced, $30.00. Fashion Park Suits exclusive with Efird’s in Charlotte, priced from $50.00 up.
