THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1927

PLAYING THE GAME

With Withers Class Track Meet High Schools Invited Spring Practice Over

Lid to be Pried Off

Opened or uncovered last Saturday at the Class Track Meet, several men showed promise and helped to lighten the gloom that has hung around the cinder path for the last few years. The meet was a nip-and-tuck affair all the way from the first pistol crack until the last echo of the announcer’s final blast. First, the Juniors, somewhat of a dark horse, jumped into the lead and held the pivot position for half of the meet. But the stars of the two lower classes were not warmed up. After about half the events had gone along the primrose way, it was evident that the Fresh and the Sophs would fight for the prize. In the bitter end, the 29-ers came out first by a one-point margin.

Probably the most surprising turn came when Brown, a Junior, tossed the javelin a goodly number of feet farther than all contestants. This tow-headed man hadn't been counted in the reckoning and did much to keep his class in the running. The sedate seniors were hopelessly outdistanced from the start. Kell, Flynn, Bailey, and Smith of the Sophs, Whittle of the Fresh, and Trevaton of the Seniors were probably the best bets on the field in addition to Brown. Other names could easily be mentioned but as these men entered a number of events they should receive more attention.

The freshmen seem to have an excellent dash man in Whittle. In fact, he took part in many of the events other than the short distances and proved to be above the average in each instance. Brohardt ran a pretty race in the 440, scampering home in 55 seconds. This is considered very good for this early in the season and especially as the track is in poor condition. Due to the fact that no letter men were allowed to enter the contests, the meet was comparatively slow, but was much better and faster than the one held last year.

Nearly a score of North Carolina high schools are planning to enter the invitation track meet to be held here this Saturday. This occasion has taken the form of an annual affair, drawing prominent cinder path stars from all Tarheeldom. Charlotte high won the meet last year by a top-heavy margin. The Davidson Wildkittens ran the Queen City boys a close race but were not eligible for the trophy offered by the Athletic Association. It is understood that this year the freshmen will compete but will not receive points.

Spring football practice ended Saturday night with the members of the squad heaving sighs of relief. Only one regular game was played this spring but in the numerous scrimmages of the grueling months, several promising freshmen and upperclassmen were uncovered. The most pleasing result of the training period was probably the progress made by Tommy James. James, always a consistent runner, developed a style of short and long spurts somewhat similar to those of Dick Grey. Baker and Harmon, tackles, also gave promise of winning a permanent place in the “thin red line” of next fall.

VOCATIONAL INSTITUTE (Continued from page 1)

be taken except by those who have made a regular habit of saving. The first $1000 is hardest to get, but others come easy in proportion.” The speaker gave the three “C’s” of business ethics. “You must have physical courage as well as moral courage—courage to stand up for one’s convictions and for the principles of life and business; courage to keep going in the face of what appears sometimes as insurmountable difficulties. You must have confidence—in the business and in yourself; if you succeed, so does the business; if you fail, the business fails; it is a reciprocal relationship. Third, you must have character, for after all, that is the underlying principle of all business, and without character, you cannot make a success.” He closed by saying that “you can succeed in the grinds of the business world if you have the courage to fight for your position, confidence in yourself to never stop driving, and character to conduct your business on fair and square principles.”

Although no flaming stars were Next Year’s Football Schedule to be Most Extensive in History of Davidson Athletics

Younger Takes Over Baseball Practice

After having finished the basketball and spring football seasons, Coach Monk Younger has now taken over the training of the baseball men. Practice started in earnest last Monday, and now the thirty or more men who are trying for places on the Davidson nine this year have settled down to hard work. While Coach Monk was still busy with the other sports, Coach Maddox supervised the early baseball practices and began to get the men lined up and in shape. The first game is scheduled with Oak Ridge here the 25th of this month. So there will be plenty for the baseball men to do the next few days, getting ready for this first game.

Although the team lost some very valuable men with the graduation of last year’s Senior Class, there is some very promising material from which to fill their places; and as things look this early in the season, it seems that a very creditable team will be built up around those letter men who are left. The pitching and catching staffs probably suffered the most from graduation. Still, some very good men are out for the mound and back-stop positions, and there will likely be some very keen competition before they are filled. This early in the season no very certain estimate can be given of the respective abilities of the several players. As things now stand it seems that Black, Wilson, McGeachy, and Ramsey are showing up best, in the order named, of those who are out for catcher. On the mound Wells, Meadows, “Fril” Cathey, Oden, Bill Cathey, and Hampton are showing up well, with the first three named probably making the strongest bids for the position.

Captain Woodham will hold down his regular position at first, Crawford, McConnell, and Allan are all showing up well in practice in this position and will probably prove valuable men. Bobby Glenn is looking good in his regular position at second, but McAuley and Harrison are also showing very decided ability on this sack. Johnny Dulin is the most promising prospect for third. There is a possibility that Harrison or McAuley will be shifted to this position. At short Johnny Kugler, who last year played both at short and at second, and Fritz Littlejohn are both showing up very well. It will probably be an extremely close race between these two for the regular place on the varsity nine. In the outfield positions Ratchford, Johnson, Davis, and Murray are looking promising at present. Wells, McDonnell, and Allan are also showing good form in these positions and may be shifted to the outfield.

The first game of the baseball season is not far.Away. Captain Woodham and his cohorts have about caught the hang of things again and now the men who were graduated from freshman ranks are being taught the fine points of the game. Freshman Coach Mattox has been conducting most of the practices, but has now turned the reins over to Coach Younger and has taken full charge of the yearling crowd.

Three Games to be Played on Hill

NINE CONTESTS

Season to Open With the Citadel in Gastonia—Closes With Duke Here

Davidson’s 1927 football schedule is the most extensive as well as the hardest one that it has ever had. Year by year new teams have been appearing on the schedule, which means that new territory becomes acquainted with Davidson as a college and with Davidson football men as a team. The increase in the number of teams of importance over that of last year is shown by the fact that for next year four Southern Conference teams will be met, where formerly only two were played. This action shows that the college is becoming well known and that the State Champions are recognized in athletic circles all over the South. Of the nine games to be played, three of them will be played at Davidson, five away from home, while the place for the Wake Forest game is yet undecided. The Citadel will be played at Gastonia so the majority of the students will be able to attend that game. A great many of them will also be able to attend the one at Spartanburg against Wofford. North Carolina State will be met at Greensboro, and if shortened class periods can be obtained from the faculty, many students will be able to back the team by their presence at Greensboro. Homecoming day has been set for October 29, when Davidson plays V. M. I. on Richardson Field. V. M. I’s team is expected to be a strong one, as very few men were lost from this year’s team. It is also expected to be one of the heaviest teams in the South, so an interesting and exciting game may be anticipated by everyone attending. This year’s Homecoming was a great success and plans are being made to make next year’s just as successful as last year.

The schedule as given by Prof. W. W. Woods, follows:
Sept. 24.—The Citadel at Gastonia.
Oct. 1—University of Florida at Gainesville.
Oct. 8.—Wofford at Spartanburg.
Oct. 15.—Elon at Davidson.
Oct. 22.—Wake Forest (place undecided).
Oct. 29—V. M. I. at Davidson.
Nov. 5.—N. C. State at Greensboro.
Nov. 12.—University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Nov. 24.—Duke University at Davidson.

Belk—“You should see what fine strawberries we raise down in Florida.”
Farrell—“I suppose you use fertilizer on them don’t you?”
Belk—“Oh, no. Just sugar and cream.”

You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

Introducing to the readers of

MR. GEORGE BRYAN (Davidson 1875-76)
Member of the Board of Trustees and Attorney
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

The Davidsonian

Wilson and Carson Named as Leaders

At a meeting of the letter men of the Davidson basketball squad Thursday, March 10, A. Wilson, of Marion, N. C., lanky Wildcat center, was elected captain for the coming year. Wilson, besides being provided by nature with all the requisites of a good center, is possessed of a fighting spirit which has cooled the ardor of many an opposing forward. He was considered by many as deserving an all-state berth. Dr. Sloan, well-known Charlotte oculist, and Davidson alumnus, was overheard to say that the Wildcat whipped the N. C. Monograms of Charlotte chiefly because of the manner in which Wilson covered Newcomb.

At a meeting of the athletic council and the basketball team which was held on Thursday, March 10, C. C. Carson of Bristol, Va., was elected varsity manager of the Davidson basketball team for next year. He was elected by the team. This is the new method of electing managers which was given its first trial last fall in the election of the football manager. Assisting Carson next year will be L. C. Wadsworth, W. E. Phifer and J. B. Moriarity. These men were chosen by the athletic council as Junior assistants. Carson is a member of the Kappa Alpha Social Fraternity. Boyce Martin, of Atlanta, Ga., was also a Junior manager during the season just closed.

STUDENTS AND ALUMNI HERE (Continued from page 1)

Representative of Schiffman Jewelry Co., of Greensboro. Announcement of winner of Norris Trophy Cup, and presentation by Dr. J. M. Douglas. Singing of “O, Davidson,” by the assemblage. In addition to this program, officials in charge announce that several surprises will intersperse it during the evening. Effort has been made to have many of the letter men at Davidson return for this event, and its inception last year is expected to become an annual event of great significance.

Golf Tournament to be Held Here Soon

All those intending to go out for the Davidson golf team will be interested to know that a meeting is to be held soon for the purpose of deciding on the details of a tournament. The date for this meeting has not yet been definitely decided upon due to the difficulty in picking a date convenient for all those interested. Manager Steve McGill was not able to give details in regard to the tournament. In the fall tournament McGill came out first; Wolfe, second; Love, third; Martin, fourth; and Mills, fifth. In the spring tournament now under contemplation any student is eligible for the team. In addition to the above-mentioned men, Tunnings, Lingle, Menzies and several others are expected to show up well. Heretofore six men have made the team.

If the constitution is wrecked by college debaters who argue the merits and demerits of Prohibition, eternal obloquy will not descend upon two North Dakota colleges. They notified Pi Kappa Delta National Forensic Society that they will not prepare debating teams to argue that the Volstead Law needs amendment to permit the sale of light wines and beers. The society chose as the year’s subject for men’s forensics: “Resolved that the Volstead Law be amended to permit the sale of light wines and beer.” Dakota Wesleyan University, through its president, E. D. Kohlstedt, protested against the subject and declared that no Wesleyan debater would lift his voice in the affirmative, but offered to develop a team to uphold the negative of the “unethical” question against all comers. Northern State Teachers College of Aberdeen seconded the protest, declaring that the subject “verges on repudiation of the Constitution,” and saying: “This college stands for law enforcement.” — New Student.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING and each night is observed. Charlotte, N. C.

CHARLOTTE GREENVILLE S& W Cafeterias ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

Everything a good Drug Store can supply WHITE DRUG COMPANY DAVIDSON, N. C.

15 E. Trade St.

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS Selz Shoes, Adler Collegian Clothes Complete line of High-Grade Haberdashery THE SHOP FOR MEN Campus Representative, R. B. MCQUEEN Vogue CHARLOTTE, N. C.