THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 28, 1927

A. M. Examinations begin 9:00.
SENIOR EXAMS
Session 1926-27 Second Semester
P. M. Examinations begin 2:00.

MAY
SAT
A. M. Biology 4, Education 3, English 7, 8, App. Math. 2
P. M. Greek 5, Law, Physics 4, 5
Accounting; R. O. T. C. 3, 4

A. M. Biology 3, Economics 3, Education 4, Math 4
TUES. Philosophy 2, Psychology 1, Geology 1, Physics 1
P. M. Astronomy, Biology 5, Christian Evidences, Geology 2, History 5, Physics 2, Public Speak. and Debate

A. M. English 4, 6, Philosophy 1, Polit. Sc. 3, Psychology 3, Spanish 6
P. M. Economics 1, French 1, Spanish 1, German 1

A. M. History 6, Physics 3, Polit. Sc. 1, Sociology
THURS.
P. M. Bible 5, Chemistry 6, Economics 2, Education 2, English 3, 5, Mathematics 3

A. M. Bus. Management, Chemistry 3, Education 1, Polit. Sc. 2, Spanish 4, 5
P. M. Geography, History 4, Psychology 4

SAT.
A. M. App. Math. 1, Biology 7, Psychology 2, Spanish 3
P. M. Chemistry 5, Greek 6, Psychology 5, Biology 6

NOTE—COURSES NOT SHOWN ON SCHEDULE TO BE ARRANGED BY CONFERENCE.

Mr. J. P. Williams conducted services for the men at the convict camp last Sunday.

Dr. Lyon’s mother is spending a few weeks with Dr. and Mrs. Lyon at their home.

Rent a Fine Car In 2 Minutes
Ride in Groups and Split the Cost

Plan a trip with three or four others—divide the bill—and the cost to each is so small you'll never miss it. If you want a car in a hurry—whether you are known at our station or not—we'll have you on the road in about two minutes. That’s how easy it is to rent a car. No red tape—no annoying questions. You go where you like—and you’re the driver.

There’s one big advantage in this service—one that has made it tremendously popular with students everywhere. That’s the low cost of renting a car. And you’re welcome to the use of a car either for a few miles of driving, a trip of an hour or two, a day, a week or a month. The only requirement is that you be qualified and competent to drive a car. That is all.

We especially invite students to use our cars. You'll like the friendly spirit here—the fine service—the exceptional economy. It costs no more for five to ride in one of our cars.

Hertz Drivurself Stations, Inc., (Dixie)
20 S. Church St.
509 W. Trade St.
Phone 3600
Phone 7898
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Secretary of Missions Talks Concerning China
Dr. Darby Fulton Describes Chinese Affairs of Today

“China, a World Interest,” was the subject chosen by Dr. Darby Fulton on Monday night, when he spoke to a large group of college students in Shearer Hall. Dr. Fulton is well qualified to speak on China because of his missionary work in the Orient. His present duty as secretary of the Foreign Mission Board of the Southern Presbyterian Church has put him in close contact with the Chinese missions and people.

At the present time, China is a nation of world interest both because of the conditions which now exist there and because of her future relation to the other great nations. “China is one of the world’s greatest problems today,” said Dr. Fulton. Its natural resources, its social relation to the rest of the world, its political importance and especially the religious conditions in China are of importance to all.

Dr. Fulton, using the blackboard in designating locations, showed the conditions which now exist in China. He carefully distinguished between the present uprising in southern China and the chaotic state of affairs which has existed in the northern section of the country for several years. Because of dialect, economic conditions, outside influences and political uprisings, the country is roughly divided into the northern and southern portions by the Yang Tse River.

For the past several years, the whole northern section has been in the hands of military rulers. “These military leaders are not moved by patriotic motives, they do not have the good of China at heart but are looking solely to personal gain.” These five militarists keep the northern country in poverty. They raise their funds by raids on the towns and villages. Fighting as they do, with no definite outline, they often make alliances with one another when they see it is to their own good. The soldiers are no more loyal or patriotic than their commanders. They are paid to fight and will fight for those from whom they receive most pay. Dr. Fulton told several interesting stories about the soldiers changing sides overnight.

Dr. Fulton tells one story about the fickle soldiery which was appreciated by all his hearers. One of these northern towns, Tsing Kiang Pu, was once in the hands of a band of bandits. The general holding that territory sent a detachment of troops to displace the bandits who were well fortified in the town. The detachment sized up the situation as rather dangerous so instead of risking their lives they rounded up a number of farmers, bound them hand and foot and carried them to their commander. A truce obtained with the bandits gave the detachment a chance to sell the ammunition given them. The general, ignorant of the circumstances, punished the farmers, thinking them to be the bandits.

Dr. Fulton then explained the present situation. This is, he said, simply an uprising sponsored by the young men of the south to overthrow imperialism. They want to overthrow the traditions and customs of old China that are binding them down, they want the north freed from the military rulers that overrun the country and they want foreign oppression removed. This last matter, according to Dr. Fulton, is of great importance to us. To understand the situation, we must turn back to the war of 1842, in which Great Britain, later followed by France, Germany, Japan and Italy, forced China to sign what has been termed a one-sided treaty. They were forced to give concessions to foreign powers, which consist of the choicest parts of China, they were forced to allow missionaries to go in any partof the country for the purpose of preaching the gospel, they were forced to give permission for all foreigners to come under the jurisdiction of courts of their own nation and they were also forced to permit their custom tariffs to be regulated by other nations. It is against this imperialism that young China is revolting. Dr. Fulton says that he believes almost every missionary is in favor of freeing China from these obligations. “They do not like the idea of preaching the gospel of the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man in Christ where their way was opened at the point of the bayonet and the mouth of the cannon.” “I believe, however, that it is not the force of this treaty to which the Chinese are subjected but it is the treatment of the people by the foreigners that cuts to the quick,” says Dr. Fulton. He gave many examples of how the respectable people of China are mistreated by foreigners in the main streets of their own cities. This is what hurts the work of our missionaries in China.

GAMECOCKS, DEACONS DOWNED
(Continued from page 1)
Bromwell (D). Time: 4 min. 54 4-5 sec.
220 yard dash—Currie (D); Kell (D); Goodykoontz (D). Time: 22 5-10.
Shot put—Magill (C); Leftwich (C); Brewer (C). Distance: 39 ft., 9 in.
Pole vault—Rogers (C); Jennings (D); Bohannon (D). Height: 11 ft., 3 in.
120 yard high hurdles—Thomas (C); Sims (D); third place man disqualified.
Two mile run—Treverton (D); Keels (C); Silverman (C). Time: 10 min., 42 sec.
High jump—Rembert (C); R. G. Calhoun (D); D. M. Calhoun (D). Height: 5 ft., 10 in.
440 yard dash—Goodykoontz (D); Pinkney (D); Currie (D). Time: 51 7-10.
Discus—Carson (C); Bohannon (D); Lincoln (D). Distance: 118 ft., 9 in.
Broad jump—Baker (C); Melton (D); Kell (D). Distance: 20 ft., 6 3-4 in.
220 low hurdles—Thomas (C); Melton (D); Frye (D). Time: 27 3-5.
Half mile—Boyce (C); Stigler (C); Cooper (C). Time: 2 min., 1 sec.
Javelin—Creech (D); Brown (D); Griffin (C). Distance: 146 ft., 3 in.

Summary of the Wake Forest meet:
100 yard dash—Currie (D); Goodykoontz (D); Rockley (WF). Time: 9 7-10 sec.
Mile run—O’Neal (D); Collier (WF); Brownell (D). Time: 4 min, 21 8-10 sec.
880 yard run—Pinkney (D); Greene (WF); Stigler (D). Time: 2 min., 7 2-10 sec.
120 yard high hurdles—Daniels (WF); Brown (D); Stradley (WF). Time: 16 1-10 sec.
220-yard dash—Currie (D); Goodykoontz (D); Rackley (WF). Time: 22 7-10 sec.
220 yard low hurdles—Daniels (WF); Melton (D); Frye (D). Time: 26 9-10 sec.
Two mile run—Treverton (D); Collier (WF); Graham (D). Time: 10 min., 55 sec.
440 yard dash—Goodykoontz (D); Pinkney (D); Kell (D). Time: 51 4-10 sec.
Pole vault—Jennings (D) and Bailey (D) tied for first; Frye (D). Height: 10 feet.
High jump—D. M. Calhoun (D); Richmond (WF); Dumas (D). Height: 5 ft., 10 in.
Broad jump—Daniels (WF); Melton (D); Bohannon (D). Distance: 22 ft., 1 in.
Javelin—Brown (D); Leston (WF); Holliday (WF). Distance: 148 ft., 6 in.
Shot put—Leftwich (D); Daniels (WF); Melton (D). Distance: 39 ft., 9 in.
Discus—Bohannon (D); Regen (D); Stradley (WF). Distance: 109 ft., 6 in.

It may be of interest to the Davidson student body to learn that Dr. Edgar Gammon, who conducted the fine meetings of the recent spring life-work campaign of the “Y,” has accepted a call to the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte.

As usual, the “Y” will hold its annual summer conference at Blue Ridge this summer, at which students from all over the South will be present to enjoy the splendid lectures and speeches and at the same time to enjoy the magnificent natural features of the mountains round about. Anybody who is interested in attending this series of meetings is asked to see Brownie Bradford at once.

DR. HENRY LEWIS SMITH
(Continued from page 1)
do, and whose personal engine adds driving power to its smooth-running performance.” Dr. Smith spoke of Gen. Robert E. Lee as his idea of a man in whom this ideal of Omicron Delta Kappa was incarnate in human personality. “I affirm without hesitation,” he stated, “that for consummate and unexpected ability in related and contradictory fields of action, for daring individualism and ultra-progressiveness, for ability to withstand and rise above and trample under foot the standards and traditions of his own age and the idolized beliefs and traditions of his own state, section, and social circle, Robert E. Lee represents the most surprising personality and leader in modern history.”

He then reviewed the work of this Southern general, declaring that his life-work after Appomattox, which in far-seeing genius, originality, and practical progressiveness would outlast, outshine, and far outweigh all the more spectacular glories of his military career. He showed that General Lee rejected numerous offers of power, wealth, and ease, preferring to dedicate his powers to “The United States of the Future.” General Lee, he pointed out, was a man who possessed progressive, all-American loyalties, advocating free labor, an undivided union, and post-war reconciliation under the old flag. Dr. Smith then outlined his progressiveness as an educational statesman, and in closing said, “Thus, like his divine Exemplar, he sacrificed his mortal life that his life-work might become immortal, and taught the world the glory of self-renunciation, of whole-hearted Christian consecration, and of fidelity to the heaven-sent duty of the hour at whatever cost of personal sacrifice.”

GOLDEN QUILL
(Continued from page 1)
L. C. Wadsworth, the alumni editor of The Davidsonian, member of the Reporters’ Club, and faculty. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

R. C. Grady, the exchange editor of The Davidsonian, member of the Reporters’ Club, varsity debater, and contributing editor of the Annual, is widely known because of his connection with so many campus activities and because of his scholastic achievements. He is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

The date for the initiation of these men has not been announced but will probably be in the near future.

IMPERIAL
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Mon., Tues., Wed.
GILDA GRAY
in
“CABARET”
Gilda is right at home in this wonderful drama of night life. It is still better than Alamo. Boys! Don’t fail to see her do her stuff!

WHITE DRUG CO.