THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1927

back to cramping custom. Proof of well-established custom is stronger than law. Custom is tradition, and tradition is religion. Her people dwell too much on the accomplishments of the past, forgetting the present, and making no preparation for the future. Mr. Joachim treated the caste system very briefly, outlining the four castes of his country: the Brahmins or priests, the warriors, the merchants and farmers, and the lowest caste, the slaves. The pessimistic philosophy of the caste system has done more to paralyze India’s growth than any other thing. Once born a slave, always a slave—the bar of caste can never be broken. The lowest caste, slave, is comprised of 67,000,000 people who live a life of abject servility. Their faculties are numb, their condition is pathetic. Their children are excluded from schools, they must not use the public highways, and even dogs, cows, and other animals are given better treatment than the slaves. The cruel philosophy that they must pay for the misdeeds of their family centuries ago has robbed them of any conception of what life is. Mr. Joachim said that it was due to the state of these 67,000,000 of his people that he became a Christian. His own religions had not brought peace and happiness to the mass of the people after centuries of trial, and the teachings of Christ seemed to be the way out for these miserable people.

The women of India are undeniably handicapped in their social opportunities. They live entirely for their husband and children, they receive no privileges, do not even own themselves. Their whole life may be said to be a passionate reverence for their husbands. Speaking very briefly of educational India, Mr. Joachim declared that his country was top-heavy. Ninety-four per cent of his people are illiterate, yet there are more university graduates in his country than in America and Great Britain. The big reason for this is that 92 per cent of those who enter high school finish the university. Educational standards are high, the curriculum at Calcutta being on a par with that of Oxford University, in England, and recognized as such by the British government.

Relations between Great Britain and India are unparalleled in history. Although Britain has made many very serious mistakes in her Indian policy, she has developed that vast country tremendously, building roads, stamping out plagues, policing the barbarous interior, and stimulating foreign trade. Brief mention was made of Gandhi and his means of breaking the spirit of the British government, the methods of passive resistance and non-co-operation.

India has a claim to the oldest civilization in the world. India is the cradle of great religions, having given rise to Buddhism, Brahmanism, Zoroastrianism, and Hinduism. Sociology, ethics, and religion comprise true Indian culture. India is a place where everything roots in custom. In closing, Mr. Joachim emphasized the necessity of a unity of nations and closer understanding between all people in order that such a world association of nations might bring about peace and progress.

FIVE SENIORS RECEIVE
(Continued from page one)

the student body and have won recognition in lines other than scholastic. Howard began a notable college career when he made the highest grade on his Freshman psychological examination that had ever been made at Davidson. He has been on the honor roll during all three years of his college course and has an average of something over 98 for these years. He is a member of the Glee Club, Omega Phi Alpha, and the International Relations Club. His social fraternity membership is with the Pyramid Club.

Arbuckle’s bid follows his election to Omicron Delta Kappa by only a few days. He has distinguished himself particularly in military lines, having the commission of cadet major of the R.O.T.C. Battalion and being a member of the national military fraternity, Scabbard and Blade. He is president of the Eumenean Literary Society, member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, a former member of the Beaver Club and of the class basketball team. His name has been on the honor roll all during his college life at Davidson. He is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, social fraternity.

C. G. Davidson has also been an honor roll man and a participant in student activities. He is a member of the Forensic Council which directs all intercollegiate debating for the college. He was a member of the Beaver Club during his Sophomore year and is now a member of Sigma Upsilon, national literary organization. Davidson is a member of Beta Theta fraternity.

J. S. Grey is a member of the Glee Club and of the Symphony Orchestra and has held this membership since his Freshman year. His interest in Latin and Greek has been especially strong and has placed his name on the honor roll of his class for two years. Physics also claims his interest as he is a member of Sigma Pi Sigma. His ability in the philosophical field was rewarded with membership in Omega Phi Alpha.

McAllister, besides his scholastic activities, has become one of the leading actors of the Red and Black Masquers, and for the past two years has been a star in both Dramatic Club performances and in Glee Club presentations. His interests have been widespread and varied as he has been identified with many leading organizations of the college. His social fraternity is Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

CALCUTTA GRADUATE

BEATEN BISCUITS
POTATO CHIPS AND SANDWICHES
Also orders taken for feeds, special entertainments, and home made candies
see MISS MINNIE

AT THE THEATRES

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
OCTOBER 24 and 25
Ramon Navarro in BEN HURR

WEDNESDAY
October 26, Thomas Meighan in A City Gone Wild

THURSDAY
October 27th, Billie Dove in An American Beauty

FRIDAY
October 28th, Adolphe Menjou in A Gentleman of Paris

SATURDAY
October 29th, Tom Mix in Tumbling River

Jacket-Tar Heel Game Features S.I.C. Program
Many Interesting Games Will be Played Next Week

Southern Conference teams, after a terrific weekend last Saturday, are expected to engage each other in another series of hard games this Saturday. Georgia Tech, flushed from a brilliant victory over Alabama, three years southern champions, will entertain the University of North Carolina in Atlanta. A slight let-down on the part of the Yellow Jackets will give the Tar Heels a fighting chance to take this game from the prospective southern champs. In Columbus, Ga., the Georgia Bulldogs engage the Auburn Plainsmen, and are heavy favorites, since dissension and lack of morale have almost wrecked the 1927 edition of the Auburn football machine. Alabama will have a nice battle with Sewanee at Birmingham; Florida will try to avenge her North Carolina defeat at the hands of Davidson when she meets North Carolina State in Tampa; South Carolina and Clemson tie up in Columbia in what promises to be a tight game; and V.P.I. comes to grips with the Cavaliers of Virginia at Charlottesville. Kentucky and W. & L. will furnish a thriller; Mercer plays Howard in Macon; Erskine invades Furman territory distinctly the “under dog;” Davidson tackles Wake Forest; Citadel meets Newberry; and the Elon-Guilford and Wofford-P.C. games hold much entertainment in store.

In the East, North Carolina’s interest will follow Duke into the haunts of the Navy, where the Blue Devils will give the Middie a whale of a game; Dartmouth meets Harvard at Cambridge, and is the favorite; Army travels to the Yale Bowl; Penn State plays Syracuse; and Princeton will meet Syracuse. Football fans will be given some real thrills this week while these teams are mixing it up.

Wake Forest Game Will Not be Given

There will be no play by play report of the Davidson-Wake Forest game Saturday, since an insufficient number expressed a desire to attend. Monday at chapel, Harllee Branch asked for a showing of hands of all who would be present in the gymnasium for a detailed report of the game Saturday. Only about thirty-five hands were raised, not enough to warrant the expense of telegraphing the plays. However, the results of the game will be reported by quarters and posted in the window of White’s Drug Store. Play by play reports were sent in from the Florida and Wofford games, much to the enjoyment of those present. Harlee Branch and Bob Platt announced the Florida returns, while Ernest Milton sent them up from the field at Gainesville. C. C. Trabue was in charge of announcing the returns from Wofford. Both of these times the games wereGraphically carted on a blackboard. Enough was taken in at the door to cover the expenses.

ECONOMIC SUBJECTS ARE (Continued from page one) involved is followed by a description of the different uses to which each type may be put.” The Dayton News says: “In simple, practical form the requirements of the businessman and of the ordinary buyer of insurance are fully elucidated to cover insurance of any and every type.” “The plan of the book,” as quoted from the New York Commercial Appeal, “is first to give an easy viewpoint from which to study detailed parts of the subject.” From the Boston Post: “This system of working out individual life insurance the author has treated throughout.” The New York World, in discussing the subject matter, makes this statement: “For the man, then, who is interested in insurance and who is looking for a good book to aid him in intelligently choosing a desirable contract best suited to his interests and security, we offer ‘Every Man’s Insurance.’” Newspapers and magazines from the Pacific to the Atlantic have carried articles discussing this work showing its wide prominence. The book was published by D. Ap- the: insurance subject versity of North Carolina on Grant Field.

The speaker at Y for this Sunday will be Mr. Tom Glasgow, of Charlotte. Mr. Glasgow is a prominent businessman in Mecklenburg county, and is well known throughout this section. This will make the sixth year that he has come up to speak to Davidson men, and he has always brought a worthwhile message, one that has never failed to be of the highest inspirational type, and well worth hearing. Vespers at 6:15.

Y— Don’t forget Charlie Paddock. He’ll be here soon.

The deputation that was sent to Gastonia was composed of Camper O'Neal and Bill Hill, instead of Allan Frew. The men that went report a fine trip and a very successful deputation.

The Y is at this time trying to secure Dr. Motte Martin, of Africa, to lead the Foreign Mission Institute, which will be held later on in the year. Dr. Martin is considered by many to be the greatest living missionary, and is a very capable leader in mission work. He has been decorated by the King of Belgium, and was very intimately connected with President Wilson during the World War. He is also a representative of the Southern Presbyterian Church, and is prominently affiliated with the Church at large. A leader in his work, and a really big man. More details about the Institute later. Watch for them.

While the Y is attempting to get Dr. Martin, as mentioned above, the services of Dr. Wade C. Smith are also being sought. Dr. Smith, of Richmond, is well known as the editor of the little Testament called “Fishers of Men,” and it is as one of the great leaders of the Personal Work Institute that he is being sought. The Y hopes to bring these two men here, although no definite arrangements have been made as yet.

2,000 copies. A second edition is forthcoming. Dr. Brown’s book, “State Movement in Railroad Development,” gives the story of North Carolina’s first attempt or effort to establish a railroad extending from the coast westward across the state—an east to west trunk line. It deals with the successes and failures of this first undertaking. In discussing the development of a railroad which would provide for adequate transportation facilities across the state, Dr. Brown gives the historical setting of the movement in which the State itself played the chief part. The first agitation for cross-state transportation began about 1888. The result was the construction of some four hundred miles of railway extending from Beaufort on the Atlantic, passing through Raleigh, Greensboro, Salisbury, Statesville, and westward to Asheville. From Salisbury, a branch was extended to Charlotte. The thing worthy of note is that the original undertaking was sponsored by the state itself. It was the principal stockholder of the lines, having control of about two-thirds of the money invested. It is interesting to know that at this time nothing important took place that was not influenced by these early railroads.

A second movement, not included in the book, deals with the railroad built from Wilmington to Mt. Airy and Greensboro in 1890. More recently in 1924 this matter of cross-state transportation was taken up in a proposal which involved eight million dollars to build a port and a trunk line connecting points in the state with the port. It was aimed at the high freight rate. Because North Carolina does not have such a port and trunk line its rates are considerably higher as compared with Virginia. Another interesting feature of the book is the Bond Scandal of the Carpet Bag period. Bonds, amounting to seven million dollars, raised for the West-North Carolina Railroad, were squandered. The book contains 400 pages and is of octavo size. In it are maps showing early railways in the state and also reproductions of very old passes. It is understood that the first edition will contain 800 copies. The publishers, the University of North Carolina Press, expect to have the book off the press by the middle of December. The sale price is $5.00 per copy.

DATE OF CAROLINA GAME (Continued from page 1) on the days of the Wake Forest and State games. The committee was able to grant but one of the days, and the student body decided that that should be the day of the State game, November 5th. Chapel will be omitted, breakfast served early and classes begin at 8:00 o'clock and end at 11 or soon thereafter. The busses will leave from the rear of the armory immediately after the classes are dismissed, taking three hours for the trip. They will leave Greensboro not later than 9:00 p.m. that night on the return trip. The Band will make this trip free of charge. It is believed by many that this is one of the most difficult games of the year, and will therefore take the support of the whole student body.

COLLEGE MASQUERS (Continued from page one) Mills, S. W. Smith, W. R. Wolf, R. H. Walton, E. G. Epes, J. G. Berry, A. F. Carr, N. M. Coney, W. M. Hunter, S. Meacham, H. M. Moffett, James Campbell, James Watt, O. B. Long, Watson Wharton, Alex Warren, and Tom Brohard.

Week End Guests

Young lady guests and visitors to the hill during the last weekend included:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: The Misses Alice Yorke, Concord; Margaret Dawson, Converse; Nancy Lee Cannon, Concord; Ann Osteen, Winthrop; Mary Edna Bell, Converse; Mayme Thomas, Converse; Frances McCormick, Salem; Rock Prince, Converse; Margaret Holt, Burlington; Phoebie Phelps, Hollins; Elizabeth Holmes, N. C. C. W.; Craig Pegram, Charlotte; Elizabeth Simpson, Greensboro; Marion Clark, Columbia, S. C.; Louise McTavish, Monroe; Edna McCall, Winthrop; Roberta Fowler, Lexington.

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Eugenia McLean, Lumberton; Bob Jenkins, Rosalie Wiley, Tootie Rideout, Pea Witherspoon, Salisbury; Penelope Cannon, Jennie Brown, Concord; Elizabeth and Lillian Parker, Gastonia; Betty Dunlap and Etis Matheson, Winthrop; Frances Devant, Charlotte; Martha Galloway, Raleigh.

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Hazel Hudson, Salisbury; Nonie Withers, Ida Allison, Elizabeth Wharton, Elle Hardman, Charlotte; Audrey Brinagre, Mocksville; Janet Rowe, Sarah Efird, Mary Creech, Winston-Salem; Frances Weeks, Hendersonville; Louise Webb, Concord; Elizabeth Bailey, Winston-Salem.

Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Elizabeth Darling, Greensboro; Lil Montgomery, York, S. C.; Miriam Weeks, Hendersonville; Rena Yates, Converse; Eva Hackney, Salem; Araminta Gant, Greensboro; Isabel Dunn, Salem; Billy McDonald, Salem; Mrs. N. W. Gant, Greensboro.

Delta Theta Chi: Misses Frances Whisnant, Shelby; Temple McCurdy, N. C. C. W.; Agnes Rice, Winthrop; Edith Britt, N. C. C. W.; Sarah Austell, Shelby.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Emma Cothran, Queens; Hortense Cobb, Winthrop; Hallie Carson, Winthrop; Martha Bragaw, Converse; Kalista Hood, Davidson, N. C.; Eleanor Holt, Winthrop; Sallie Shank, Charlotte; Fannie Dial, Washington, D. C.; Jennie Wolfe, Charlotte; Dolly Moore, Queens; Anne McLaurin, Charlotte; Cleo McLaurin, Charlotte; Christine McCrary, Lexington; Frances Fletcher, Salem; Elizabeth Norfleet, Winston-Salem.

Sigma Delta: Misses Eleen Hutchins, Converse; Agnes Mansfield, Converse; Agnes Steel, Converse; Martha Hill, Converse; Olive Russell, Converse; Martha Phifer, Converse; Ellen Gilbert, Converse; Elizabeth White, Converse; Margaret Massie, Rock Hill; Gilane Hall, Burlington; Susan Crook, Converse; Macy Ward, Winthrop.