¥ T 1E DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 12, 1927

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN................. Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES, JR........ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Alumni Editor
Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY............. Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON................. Assistant Business Manager
Subscription Manager
Circulation Manager

E. H. McCALL
J. I. LOVE
W. H. BAILEY
President
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer

D. P. ANDERSON
J. P. McBRYDE
W. H. BEST
R. W. McDERMID
E. T. EDELMAN
J. P. McKNIGHT
M. T. GILMORE
W. A. N. HALVERSTADT
W. E. S. HEEFNER
D. M. K. HENDERSON
V. R. F. JARRATT
C. M. F. JOHNSTON
D. T. STOKES
R. R. KANE
W. R. TREVERTON
R. W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
A. F. LAPSLEY
B. A. WILSON
V. LONG

EDITORIAL

With this issue, The Davidsonian shuts up its typewriters for this year. No more issues will appear since exams will
start within the next week. Won’t sleep be sweet on Monday nights for the next few months?

We wonder what has become of articles written against compulsory church attendance, petitions to the trustees to have dances at
the gym, fresh caps, “Davidson spirit,” and if anybody ever reads these things.

Many a senior’s heart is beating hopefully these days. Both for exam exemptions and diplomas.

The Duke Chronicle is to be congratulated on being adjudged the best college newspaper in the state for the past
year. A good paper has received its just reward.

There hasn’t been a fresh parade on any occasion in a long time. We hope the Soph Day committee has
planned something of the sort. We do so dearly love to see the freshies in their gay “nighties.”

TOLERANCE

There has been much discussion recently as to the C. C. Marshall-Governor Smith controversy which held the interest of the
press for several days a little while ago. No matter on what political side, or religious side one might be,
it is certain that some great good has been derived from this discussion as far as tolerance is concerned.

One would think that we had drawn away from the medieval idea of consolidation of church and state yet there
seem to be a number of people who think that they are still one. Today is the time for such
a thought to be struck out of the minds of the people of America and allow them to adopt a
more tolerant attitude toward all religious questions. Since religion is such an emotional and a personal thing, it would seem
that everyone would be exceedingly tolerant as to the thought of other people, understanding that it was their own opinion,
whether it was right or wrong was not theirs to judge.

There have been numerous people who have thought that all Catholics considered the Pope as the supreme authority on earth,
with no consideration for civil officials if the two views happened to differ or if their religious thoughts were variant.
From St. Bonaventure College comes an explanation of that in an editorial in which it is explained that Catholic laws
have always inculcated absolute obedience to the civil laws. The thought is further clarified when the statement is made that
every Catholic is bound in conscience to obey the civil laws even though they are promulgated by a non-Catholic government.
This is an interesting point in regard to the fact that many have always considered Catholics as obedient primarily to
the Pope and only secondarily to the civil authorities.

Every fair-minded Protestant should recognize this fact now that the Catholic Church has explained itself so fully, concisely, and completely
on the subject and understand that the Catholics are not attempting to control the government through their church or any
other misconception similar to that. The Marshall-Smith letters and statements have made already, in a small way, the people in
this country more tolerant and more anxious to understand the two sides of the question. A rapid stride has been
made in the country’s progress when a tolerant attitude is adopted throughout the country. By this, we do not mean
that each man should sacrifice his personal beliefs and thoughts to any other, but that he should recognize the thought
of others as well as his own.

That this tolerant attitude is spreading to people of other religious beliefs as well as those who profess the Protestant
religion is evidenced by the fact that only recently two munificent gifts have been donated by Jews to charitable organizations
sponsored by churches of a different faith. St. Joseph’s Hospital, Long Island, N. Y., has been the recipient of a
gift from Isaac D. Levy and the University of Dayton has been donated a large building by Victor Emanuel. The
only stipulation in both of these gifts is that of sentiment, that they might be known as memorials to deceased
loved ones.

QUO VADIS?

Despite the fact that colleges were founded to train the youth of the land, or to misquote a bit and
apply a Horder philosophy in the wrong opening, “to train youth to see life steadily and to see it whole;”
it seems that in a number of instances it is practically failing. Not failing in the erudition of the student
in the classics, mathematics, or similar scholarly pursuits but in his knowledge of the world.

There are numbers of students on the campus who subscribe to the daily newspapers, but their chief interest is in
the sporting section. Notice in chapel some morning before the papers are discarded. There are very few who are looking
at the front page to notice current events, very few who are observing on the editorial page what some man
is thinking of the affairs of the world; but there are many who see how the White Sox came out
yesterday, or how many hits so and so got out of so many times at bat. In some cases, there
are a few from Mississippi or Arkansas who get the front page to see the damage done by the flood
in the last twenty-four hours, but normally they are not interested in front page stories. The few stories from the
outside which are read are of murder trials, notorious cases in the headlines, but there is very little of the
constructive reading which should be done.

At Amherst College recently there were only seven men who signified their intention of entering the Current Events contest. Only
seven who thought they were capable of discussing the world’s affairs intelligently. Probably at Davidson there would be even less
who were interested. The old familiar law of averages would compel one or two to enter, but there would not
be near the number who should be able to discuss with some degree of intelligence affairs of the world.

The lack of proper facilities is no excuse for such a situation. The reading room of the library has numerous
daily papers on its racks and is open practically all of the day. At the “Y” rooms there are other
copies of these papers, besides the ones subscribed to by the various students. There are numerous ways by which one
could obtain current reading matter if he so desired. But the evil lies deeper than this shallow surface. The students,
although studying history, literature, and kindred subjects are not interested in this history in the making today. There is a
small group on the campus organized definitely to study the problems of history of today and the affairs of the
various nations with reference to each other’s policies, etc., but each student should be as actively interested as some of
the members of this organization.

The importance of students studying the problems of today and having some knowledge at least of their general thought cannot
be overly emphasized. The college man of today who ignores such things will be the voter of tomorrow who goes
to the polls ignorant of the affairs of his country and scarcely knowing that which he is voting upon. This
is a sad outlook when it is considered how many of these students are here at Davidson. We are toldby
every chapel Ollapodrida

Something was said in this column last week about the uniformity of student thought and opinion. Any conclusion was left
to the reader. In a very pointed article in Scribner's for April, Dr. Dashiell expressed himself rather thoroughly and unfavorably.
He stated that the new Federation of American College Students, recently formed at the University of Michigan, showed that at
least a few college students had opinions of their own. However, he said, the large majority of such students are
yet but symbols and will continue to be such. We can but hope for a new era of college organization.

We rather doubt Mr. Dashiell’s statements. Rather, we would think that the only student opinion which comes before the public
eye is the uniform thought of iconoclastic students; those who advocate a new order, which they think has never been
duplicated, but which in reality is but an echo of their prototype in other schools. It is not the thought
of the saner majority, because the saner majority have no uniform thought and do not seek to give their personal
opinions publicity. They work to bring about their objectives through quiet conservative methods.

The charge has been made that the college campus is becoming too highly organized and the statement can hardly be
doubted when the facts are considered. There are organizations of every form, type, and shape from state clubs to Soph
Day committees. Forty-one regular student organizations aside from athletic teams were listed in the 1926 Quips and Cranks. Nor did
this include class committees or similar organizations. A man of any importance on the campus will be found to be
listed in the membership of anywhere from five to fifteen and also will be requested to attend regular meetings. It
seems that a test of a man’s leadership is almost a test of his willingness to attend meetings.

There are three distinct classes of attenders: those who come regularly and on time, those who come fairly often but
usually late, and those who never attend. Only a chosen few are among the first class. About half of the
attenders are among the second while at least a third comprise the last. No matter how well the personnel of
an organization is chosen, the rule seems to hold almost constantly. The fact is not only recognized but it is
an established precedent that no organization requires more than two-thirds of its members to form a quorum. The other third
are the non-attenders. A student calling to see certain men in chapel will find that the rule holds good there.
A complete attendance, even for matters of utmost importance, is as rare as snow in June.

Hazing, that supposedly relegated custom of the majority of American colleges, seems to thrive in foreign lands. The Duke of
York, upon receiving an honorary degree recently from the University of Vienna, was thoroughly initiated. Uproarious dental students jostled him,
pushed him, and uttered remarks such as, “O, Buddie, I’m of good extraction.” Two others confiscated the official car, donned
royal clothes, and paraded themselves. Obeisant peasants bowed low and were shocked beyond measure when the royal pair jestingly thumbed
their noses to the public. Such conduct in America would not be tolerated. It seems that foreigners have a perverted
sense of humor. And yet they themselves would probably be equally shocked at the idea of maltreating a fellow student
by the application of paddle or broom to the uninitiated newcomer. Publicly, the American student does not sanction such action.
Privately, he does. Every possible form of freshman control, other than force, has been applied by students who still feel
that such control is necessary. All have failed more or less. Davidson's Court of Control is far from satisfactory. Many
leading American schools let the class run their free course, allowing them every privilege from the first. No great dissatisfaction
has been evident. It seems to be the best method. The spirit of the dark ages can hardly be extinguished
in a day, however. Time only will work out the proper course.

One of the biggest fights in the history of Ohio University was held recently in which over four hundred students
were involved. The scrap started when two hundred freshmen rebelled against an equal number of sophomores ducking them. And then
on the other side of the question, we find that freshmen at Capital University have voted to abolish hazing in
order that the class of 1931 might not be subjected to the same injustices to which their class was.

Every speaker who comes here tells us that we are “the leaders of tomorrow” and that the “fate of the
nation is in the hands of the college students of today” and yet the large majority of students here care
not, apparently, what will be the fate of this nation or any other.

College Comment

Recently at the University of Ottawa, a poll was taken to discover the sentiment of the student body with reference
to compulsory chapel attendance. It was discovered that the students did not object to the services so much as to
the method by which they were conducted. Unanimous dissatisfaction was voiced at the present system.

Governor Donahey, of Ohio, was initiated into Scabbard and Blade, an honorary military fraternity, at Ohio State last week. As
an aftermath to the big fight between the Cambridge police and Harvard students last February, President Lowell of Harvard has
asked for the resignation of four of the policemen for “unnecessary brutality.” Possibly they will be wanting to arrest the
Princeton football team also.

John McGraw, manager of the New York Giants and also an alumnus of St. Bonaventure, has arranged a baseball game
between his team and his alma mater to be played at Alleghany on June 1st.

The Players, from the University of West Virginia, have again won the Cumnock Cup as first place in a recent
national inter-collegiate one-act play contest held at Northwestern University. The West Virginia group also won the contest two years ago.

The freshmen of Purdue University held an egg-eating contest in connection with the annual egg show held there last week.
There were several events and eggs were eaten both cooked and raw.

Another college has joined the ranks of those prohibiting the use of automobiles by students matriculated at the institution. St.
Bonaventure College made this announcement recently, to be effective at the beginning of the fall semester.

College authorities are active these days in banning ancient traditions at the various universities. At DePauw, the authorities have prohibited
all pajama parades which the students were accustomed to hold. Also, the college authorities at Oberlin have banned the midnight
serenades with which the eds were wont to entertain the co-eds.

And more tradition gone, though not at the hands of the faculties. At Princeton, ivy which had been growing on
the walls of one of the dormitories since 1890 was torn away by high winds and it was impossible to
replace it.

A tourist, going through Minnesota, had a slight accident. Unable to find the necessary wrench, he went to a farmhouse
and inquired of the Swedish owner: “Have you a monkey-wrench here?” “Naw,” replied the Swede. “My brother bane got a
cattle ranch over there; and my cousin bane got a sheep ranch down there; but too dar’ cold for a
monkey ranch.” —The Bulldog, Citadel.

The Austin College (Texas) Kangaroo has a leading editorial on the subject of “Why Do College Men Smoke?” We have
often wondered the same thing upon being asked for a cigarette.

At the University of Kansas recently, a feature of a large track meet was the staging of a primitive game
of football by some Indians. They used a wooden ball and propelled it only with their feet.

Last Saturday, the staff of the Harvard Crimson played a baseball game opposed by the staff of the Daily Princetonian.
It seems from this that the two institutions have not broken athletic relationships entirely if that game be classed as
an athletic contest.

The University of Oregon has received more than a quarter of a million dollars in the last six months as
gifts to the institution. Davidson should get in touch with their campaign manager and possibly Chambers would be finished sooner.

Approximately three-fourths of the faculty at Amherst College have petitioned the governor of Massachusetts to reopen the Sacco-Vanzetti case.

A ruling at Ohio State recently announced by the president prohibits the “throwing of a freshman in the lake.” Any
man so doing will sever his connection with the university. This abolished the Bucket and Dipper, whose duty it was
to punish miscreants in the freshman class, usually by throwing them in the lake in the middle of the campus.
