4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1927

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. .......... Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES .......... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. T. COVINGTON .......... Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN .......... Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS .......... Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB .......... Associate Editor
D. B. P. JOHNSON .......... Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN .......... Exchange Editor
J. A. SHELBY .......... Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN .......... Alumni Editor
W. B. GORDON .......... Assignment Editor
P. E. SIMPSON .......... Feature Editor
T. T. SIMONDS .......... Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS .......... Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD .......... Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE .......... Assistant Business Manager
A. McALPINE .......... Subscription Manager
LEE DONNELL .......... Circulation Manager
S. S. ABERNETHY .......... Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
R. H. McILWAINE
A. N. BROWN
J. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH
M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD
B. WILSON
J. R. WEAVER
B. F. MCQUEEN

EDITORIAL

Henry Ford’s latest industrial idea of a five-day week has entered colleges, first, apparently by way of the college of
business administration at Harvard. To the list of commercialized college sports, militarized college curriculums, and modernized college instruction, we are
about to add an industrialized college calendar. Soon we shall be asking “Why is a college?”

SPORT FOR SPORT’S SAKE

An item appearing in the columns of a large number of southern newspapers last week concerning a fistic encounter between
two college athletes and a basketball official in Greenville brings forcibly to our attention the need of a changed attitude
concerning intercollegiate sports. That two Wake Forest players should have dared to attack a referee following their defeat at the
hands of Furman University last week indicates a growing misconception of true sportsmanship among our college athletes.

Not having witnessed either the actual encounter between official and players, nor having seen the events which led to this
display of rowdyism, we refrain from assigning the blame for this lamentable occurrence. Newspaper reports (often unfair) indicate that the
two players attacked the referee after the last whistle, and without warning proceeded to inflict bodily injuries upon their surprised
victim. The game had been a walk-a-way for Furman according to news dispatches, and the referee had called only two
less fouls on the Furman players than he had called on the Wake Forest basketeers. The interference by police prevented
what might have been a real old-fashioned “free-for-all,” news reports making it clear that Furman students and spectators had advanced
to the court for the purpose of preserving order and protecting the official from further injury at the hands of
the two Wake Forest players.

There is more in the affair than the average reader realizes. In the first place, this regrettable affair indicates a
growing laxity in the matter of disciplining college athletes. The Wake Forest anti-climax is not the only instance we have
had recently concerning this lack of proper idealism among student athletes. The break between Princeton and Harvard, two old-time gridiron
rivals, is said to have followed unnecessary and continued roughness and slugging on the part of the players, combined with
the use of profanity by members of the Princeton team. The Davidson-P. C. split was the result of a similar
complaint. Everywhere we hear of “athletic splits,” of “free-for-alls,” of fistic encounters between officials and players.

There is nowhere a stronger advocate of college athletics, both of the intercollegiate and intra-mural varieties, than The Davidsonian. But,
unless college athletics can be kept on a plane far removed from the tendencies of commercialized sports, they should be
prohibited. In the final analysis, there is only one real justification for intercollegiate athletics—and that is the claim that sports
of this type tend to develop a student’s physique and likewise his character. When college athletes fail to attain the
proper discipline, in the matter of self-control as well as in bodily development, they unconsciously open the floodgates to a
tidal wave of timely criticism from those persons who already see evil in the over-emphasis of athletics among college students.

It is inconceivable that an athlete who fails to act a man’s part on the gridiron or on the basketball
court should be raised to the pedestal of a campus hero, or that his untimely acts should receive the approbation
of his coaches and his fellow students. Yet, that is what has happened in too many instances. As long as
an athlete thinks he will be excused—and protected—by his fellow students for a breach of athletic etiquette, college athletics are
in imminent danger of losing their prestige. Poor sportsmanship is never to be excused—and since true sportsmanship to a great
extent depends on discipline and self-control, no such occurrence as that in Greenville last week should be overlooked or excused.

Perhaps the two Wake Forest players in defending their untimely actions will say that the referee had been unduly partial
in his decisions, or that he had failed to perform his duties in a competent manner. Such alibis would only
add to the distastefulness of the affair. A referee is chosen by agreement of the two colleges, and his decisions,
no matter how unfair they may seem, should not be subject to the approval of the players either verbally or
physically. Under no condition should a referee be subjected to mistreatment by contestants and spectators. The right sort of official
should resent any indication of displeasure at his decisions on the part of the players by administering such penalties as
are provided in the rules of the games. At no time should players or spectators attempt to dictate to an
official. The two Wake Forest players have apologized for their lack of consideration, and they are to be congratulated for
their apology. But, their attack will remain inexcusable and repugnant in the minds of all who cherish the ideal of
“sports for sport’s sake.”

CHOOSE NOW MEN!

Vice is a monster of so frightful a mien
As to be hated needs but to be seen:
Seen too oft’, familiar ‘comes the face,
We first endure, then pity, then embrace.

From among the myriad of factors that have entered into, and played a leading part in man’s life, four have
slowly elevated themselves above their brothers. Honor, wealth, vice, and pleasure have taken their places at the head of the
cortege. In strength they are equal, and in their universal appeal they are likewise evenly matched.

For the college student, it is essential that a goal be set. He must work for a purpose, must prepare
himself for a life of service; or for a few years of gaudy pleasure that will net him misery and
sorrow in the final reckoning. He must choose a friend from among those four leaders and by that choice will
his entire life be colored. But when is the choice to be made; in the last year of college; in
the years that come after college; or at the present? The question is easily answered with one word, “Today.” Tomorrow
may be too late. Tomorrow may mark the turning of one’s entire life. The examinations and daily recitations of college
life are small problems, small battles which must be won or lost today. They are miniature counterparts of the great
battles that will come in the years of struggle that must follow these carefree days of college life.

Never will there be a time more appropriate than now for the beginning of preparation for a straightforward, honorable life
of service. In the classroom and on examination the moral fibers may be strengthened by honest work. The student of
today may prepare himself so that the man of tomorrow will depend, not upon trickery and deceit, but upon his
own honest efforts to gain the prize for which he fights. And a prize so won is doubly dear to
him. It is one which he can look upon with pride and not with that tinge of self-reproach and humiliation
which must surely compromise the value of anything bought with the price of his own honor.

If one would get the most out of his allotted three score years and ten he must, and will, play
well the gay little game of years. He will suffer defeat or a low grade rather than the humiliation of
knowing that he is not fair with himself and with others.
—Mercer Cluster.

WHICH HELPED YOU MORE: STUDIES OR ACTIVITIES?
By DALE WARREN

Editor’s Note: The following article, reprinted by courtesy of The New Student, America’s leading intercollegiate publication, is the first of
a series of two articles on curricular and extra-curricular activities, a correlation of which we believe both desirable and necessary
if the average student is to get the most out of his college work. The futility of such a correlation
is stressed in Mr. Warren's discourse, while next week’s article, written by Dr. Mary Yost, dean of Women at Stanford
University, indicates that the day when curricular work in colleges was considered irreconcilably separate and distinct from student activities is
fast receding into the limbo of forgotten things. We implore serious thought by faculty alike on this subject.

Out of my mail the other morning there dropped...ped an envelope postmarked with the name of the town where I
had received my “college education.” The enclosed letter, which I read with a commingling of interest and amusement, came from
the editor of the college paper and asked me if I would write an article from “four to five hundred
words in length,” telling which had been more valuable to me, “the work put in on college studies or that
devoted to extra-curriculum activities.” The editor went on to say that he was running a series of articles on the
subject, written by recent graduates, and that he felt sure any comment I might make would prove helpful and stimulating
to undergraduate readers. My amusement grew, and instead of following my first inclination to drop the letter into the waste
paper basket, I sat down that evening to answer it. I had no thought of silencing all future questions on
the subject nor did I intend to count my words for fear of over-stepping the five-hundred limit.

Dear Sir, I wrote, your question is not a new one. It has been asked perennially since the days of
the first graduating class and will continue to be asked, I suppose, as long as young men go to college.
The very fact that it is forever on the tip of the undergraduate tongue is just another way of saying
that no very conclusive answers can have as yet been given. In other words, your question, while logical from your
point of view, is absurd—absurd, I mean, to try to answer. So I don’t intend to answer it at all,
but propose merely to set down a few reflections which this subject seems, most unexpectedly, to crystallize into words.

Can you imagine an American college without a curriculum? I can’t. Without a curriculum, there would be no boards of
trustees, no professors, no courses, no such thing as Economics 301. And who, tell me, would go so far as
to pay the tuition fees of the students? We go to college ostensibly to “learn something,” and by learning something
we mean “getting something out of our courses.” Isn’t that so? We know that there will be “marks” in college
just as there were marks in prep school. We know, even if we may not admit it, that by arbitrary
standards will our mental capacities be adjudged. We know, despite this, that we want to get good marks in our
examinations. Confidentially, however, we expect to pitch on the baseball team and edit the college paper, join a good fraternity
and be one of the boys, go on weekend trips to New York and read Cabell and Dreiser when we
should be asleep. And so when Freshman year comes along we have it pretty firmly fixed in our minds that
the curriculum is one thing and the extra-curriculum another.

It is not altogether our fault. Our parents and friends think the same thing; so do the Faculty and most
of our classmates. This, it seems to me, is the explanation of our error, although not much of an excuse
for it. Some of us overemphasize the importance of the curriculum, some of us go to the other extreme. Very
few of us find the connecting thread. What we have done is simply to follow along in true American style,
without stopping to consider whether there might be another way. We have pinned to our minds a national characteristic—the propensity
for differentiation, for classification, for the fine art of pigeon-holing. And the chances are that we will go through college
making these rigid distinctions, and see to it later on that our sons do the same thing.

Far be it from me to indict a people, as Edmund Burke expressed it, in that bane of college entrance
requirements, but aren’t you continually oppressed by our American over-emphasis on organization? We are specialists in this field, we like
to departmentalize, to relegate all things to their “proper place,” and at the same time to achieve a balance by
mixing a little bit of everything. As it is with the nation, so it is with the individual. Hence our
universities, with literature and metaphysics and professors on the one hand, and football teams and class committees and fraternities on
the other.

Just take a look at Oxford—no alumni associations, no “reunions,” no professional coaches, no classroom exercises, no daily schedule, no
Freshman tests, no Puritanic intensity, no elaborate system of elections to a senior council. Yet it turns out men who
can think and talk and get things done, who can climb mountains and play good tennis and understand Browning, men
who can dance and raise families and talk the language of ditch diggers and debate in Parliament. I am not
holding a brief for English universities; I have never been to one, except for three days in the summer. But
I think they have many things to teach us. No English university man could have asked the question that you
have asked me, no undergraduate editor of an English paper could be interested in the answer. It is because the
English see life more as a whole, because they are interested in synthesis and not primarily in analysis.

They seldom stop to think whether they are robbing Peter to pay Paul. They don’t divide up their days by
hours and half-hours and thus continually have to reorganize their mental faculties. I suppose your days at college are much
as mine used to be—a hurried breakfast and a run to get to the 8:10 lecture in history. Then a
shoe-shine and the morning’s mail and a brief review of the economics assignment before the next class. Then a “study
period” followed by fifty minutes of Latin before lunch. And the hectic afternoons! A committee meeting for ten minutes, then
Physics Lab, two and a half sets of tennis, and a rush for that five o'clock concert of chamber music
that you don’t want to miss, then dinner. Do your friends drag you off to the movies as mine used
to, and do you leave in the middle of the last reel to give out assignments to candidates for the
paper? Do you go back to your room and read three acts of “Richard III” for the coming Shakespeare quiz,
and finally throw the book and talk to your roommate about the next prom as you are getting undressed? Are
your days a regular kaleidoscope, first one color and then another, now one pattern and now a second? Are you
as adept as I used to be at readjusting your thought and activity with each hour of the day, at
continually stopping one thing to do something else, at never learning or doing anything thoroughly? I will never forget those
glamorous days with their frenzied gestures and their utter lack of correlation. As I look back upon them, now that
you take me to task, the complacent lack of perspective seems almost unbelievable.

We are so intense here in America, and in college particularly. We specialize, we “go in” for things. If we
are not overwhelmed by the thousand and one trifles that make college a veritable merry-go-round, we work for a letter
in football, or a Phi Beta Kappa key, seldom for both. If we are less talented we like to be
voted the “busiest” at the end of Senior year, and we have coined the unique phrase, “best all-round man outside
of athletics.” We “scrimmage or we scan,” we Homeric quotations out of place on the football field, and the scholar
does not think his scholarship enriched by the rhythm only good oarsmen know. We rush around the campus with our
classmates on Saturday night; we hardly ever think of discussing such closely related subjects as Plato and the minimum wage
system with our philosophy instructor in a book-lined study before smouldering embers. Our faculties have little sympathy with us if
we think the rich, grimy book of human nature more interesting than any item we can find in the University
Library. The Greek tenet of the golden mean has been clouded by the smoke of countless factories and of “Father's
business” often make the determining factor when we come to choose our own courses. Have not many of us grubbed
night and day as business managers of some campus periodical because we thought it would help us in Advertising, and
then drifted casually into Architecture after graduation?

I am speaking of my contemporaries; just keep track of yours, and see how often this proves to be the
case. Sometimes we have thought we would just loaf through four years of college because we would have to work
hard enough afterwards to make up for it.

At all events, we have lost much of the interrelation of things. We have set our classmates down as “grinds,”
“athletes,” “charm-chasers” and in most cases have accepted these decrees as final. We have divided our minds into watertight compartments.
How many of us have sat up to “put the paper to bed” and then gone back to our rooms
to browse through the journal of Horace Walpole and his press at Strawberry Hill? How many of us have left
akin to the old Roman orators as we have spent a listless evening in debating trials? How many of us
have taken a worn copy of Walt Whitman to the woods with us on a perfect afternoon in April? How
many of us have talked with the Italian bootblack the wiser for our studies in history or social economics?

Just as long as we continue to think of the curriculum and the extra-curriculum as separate entities, we shall go
on wasting time in the attempt to discover the relative value of the two. Just as long as we keep
subdividing the curriculum and the extra-curriculum into half a hundred disconnected sectors, we shall continue to obscure the whole picture.

(Continued on page 8)
