THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1927

ALUMNI ADDRESSES

Within the next few weeks Davidson College students will receive a card from the Alumni Secretary, asking that they come
by the office. Several of them have already responded to his request. The purpose is to go over the list
of alumni in the home towns of each student, obtain new addresses from them and perhaps add numerous alumni to
the present mailing list. That students can assist the Secretary in a great way has already been indicated by the
results obtained from the students who have been asked to come by.

O. D. K. DELEGATION
(Continued from page 1)
of the fraternity, and of the admission of new circles. At another session, Dr. T. W. Lingle was appointed as
chairman of the committee on nomination. On Friday night the delegates were present at the initiation ceremony of the Virginia
circle, at which time twelve men were taken into the organization. Following this ceremony, a banquet was held at the
Monticello Hotel in Charlottesville. Dr. Lingle was one of the speakers at the banquet.

On Saturday afternoon, the delegates were entertained with a sight-seeing trip to the various points of interest in and near
Charlottesville. After this trip, the convention was closed, the next one to be held in 1929.

GLEE CLUB LEAVES
(Continued from page 1)
The complete schedule for the trip is as follows: March 3rd, Salem College, Winston-Salem; March 4th, Greensboro College for Women,
Greensboro; March 5th, North Carolina College for Women, Greensboro; March 7th, Lexington, N.C. The program to be presented on this
trip has not been completely worked out, but the business manager, W. O. Green, states that the interlude will be
changed greatly from that presented here. Ed Wilson and H. R. Mobley will again entertain the crowds with their popular
song hits. The Jazz Orchestra, quartet, chorus, and symphony orchestra will compose the remainder of the program. Full arrangements for
the South Carolina trip have not been completed, but will be announced later.

SOUTH CAROLINA INVASION
(Continued from page 2)
finish and kept within the danger zone until the last part of the contest. Quite a number of Davidson alumni
were present at the game following a spirited meeting of Alumni from all around Columbia.

S. C. (34) Rogers (5) Position Davidson (29)
Anderson (13) Bair (4) Dees
Calhoun (8) White (2) Greets
Wilson (1) Siedman (1) RG Simpson (4)
Clark (8) Giese Harrison (3)
Substitutes—Davidson, McAuley; South Carolina, Farr (4).
Referee, Sims.

CARD OF THANKS
We wish to take this means of thanking our many friends and neighbors for the many acts of kindness shown
us in our great bereavement.
Mrs. Z. K. Justice and Children.

IMPERIAL CHARLOTTE, N.C.
ALL NEXT WEEK
“THE FIRE BRIGADE”
WITH
May McAvoy
Charles Ray
A Tremendous Production now playing a long run engagement in New York at $2 prices.

NEUMONIA
Always call a physician. Until his arrival use “emergency” treatment with Vicks. This does not interfere with anything he may
prescribe.
Vicks VapoRub

Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Currie Runs Hundred in 9.8
(by Hendrix)

Not All of Us Can run like this or snap pictures like this. But everybody wants a picture of his
particular athletic hero--his favorite team--his fraternity--his military company. We can supply your memory book with pictures of all athletic teams,
all letter men (individual pictures), military companies, class mascots, glee club, fraternities and many others.

After Dinner Friday
Everything on display in Parlor of Watts Dormitory.
1927 Quips & Cranks
TYREE DILLARD, 407 WATTS

W. F. Stephens Speaks to Students at Vespers
Brother of Famous Evangelist Emphasizes the Personal Christ

“I am never, under any circumstances, ashamed of the Word of Jesus,” declared W. I. Stephens, theological student in McCormick
Theological Seminary, and brother of the great evangelist, in the opening of his talk before the “Y” Sunday night. Stephens
opened his talk by saying that he would use no text, but talk to the students as any college mate
would talk to his fellow men. He talked of a great man, an humble man, Jesus Christ, telling of the
life characteristics of our Saviour, stating that Christ was an humble man come into the world to reveal God to
us in an every-day manner. He again made the statement that, “I have no doubt of His dignity, which He
attained by His humaneness.” He endeavored to present Christ as an every-day helpmate of mankind.

Stephens then plunged farther into his speech, enumerating the facts of Christ's divinity. The Old Testament is full of the
promises of the coming Messiah. He pictured Him as the beginning and the end of everything; the essence of loving
kindness, which is exemplified in the little deeds that Christ performed. He illustrated the way in which Christ opens Himself
to examination, by the story of Von Hindenburg, the German president. Von Hindenburg came to the German presidency, retaining the
Socialist leaders on his staff, so that his opposing party might see and hear everything that he did. So Christ
came among the Pharisees to be examined, yet with all of their blasphemy, they were able to find nothing wrong
with Him. “Christ is not surrounded by a cloud of mystery,” said Stephens. “He reveals Himself to us in a
most natural way. Christ is a mystery to those that are sinners, but He is a loving brother to the
converted sinner. Stephens remarked, that Christ was not mostly with the true Christian, but with the greatest, blackest and most
degraded sinner, who needs Him more. Even when you think yourself too sinful to be in the presence of God,
He has His loving arms around you, pleading with you. Stephens placed the purpose of the church today at this
point, “Love the bad man.” Since God is better understood when revealed in a natural way, Christ makes it His
mission to reveal God to man in a natural way. Therefore the part of a Christian is to assent and
to follow. When you tryto follow Christ. He will lend a helping hand and an encouraging word. The speaker said
the student of today, amid the greatest advantages of any time, has two channels in which to go. One, the
popular channel in which the student prepares himself for leisure and mercenary gain; the other, in which the student grasps
every advantage to fit himself for a position of service. In the latter channel, the student has to face Christ
and bring Him into his life in order to radiate the Spirit of Christ to others. The student must have
humility, modest humility, as the young college life of today is creating the religion of tomorrow. Stephens told his hearers
that he likes Christ for His tenderness in reaching down and pulling the blackest sinner out of hell. “I love
Christ for His great influence,” said Stephens, “for He never comes in contact with any soul that He does not
conquer. He is the essence of love, of tenderness, of squareness, changing the inner spirit into a beautiful life of
service. The men that Christ converted were men that had failed, but later became Christian martyrs. Stephens drew his talk
to a close with the beautiful story of Christ and the woman who anointed Him with oil, which was bought
with her last penny.”

Five Men Initiated by Reporters’ Club

The following men, recently selected from the Sophomore class for membership into the “Reporters’ Club,” received their final initiation on
last Wednesday night: W. K. Pritchett, J. P. McBryde, R. C. Grady, J. R. Graham, and W. H. Bailey.

The five initiates were required to wear the regular newspaper caps for the last three days of the week. The
caps were made from a copy of “The Davidsonian” and have as a chin band two cuts of ribbon displaying
the Reporters’ Club colors of blue and black. At the picture show on Saturday, the initiates gave a very novel
skit which consisted of a baby contest. Two played the role of babies, two others as mothers, and the fifth
served as judge, the gym being used as a setting. Last Wednesday night the regular initiation took place, and each
man, after producing the required evidence, was declared a full-fledged member of the “Reporters’ Club.”

Dr. Beatty Makes Speech for Funds

That every student should be interested in feminine education was the statement made by Dr. Beatty, of Westminster College, to
the Davidson student body on Saturday morning in a very interesting talk. As a text, he took a reference from
“The Songs of Solomon,” which he claims is the greatest love story ever written. In this connection, he said that
every man should be interested in this because he wants his wife to have just as much education as he
has himself. Recently, he has become interested in Peace Institute, of Raleigh, which he says is one of the finest
schools he has ever known, although it is only a junior college. The women who are Peace graduates are the
leaders in the circles of women with which he has come in contact since he came to this state, he
says. A few years ago, when Davidson was trying to raise funds to rebuild Chambers, the girls at Peace raised
$300, which shows that they are interested in us; therefore, we are now presented with the opportunity to do the
same for them. The students will have charge of the campaign and will try to raise money for Peace Institute.
In this drive, every student is asked to do his best to help this worthy cause.

MONOGRAM CLUB (Continued from page 2)

Individual ability won for Davidson, while individual ability coupled with an almost total absence of team effort was not enough
for the Monograms to win. Bill Yates, though not a high scorer, played the best game for the Monograms, while
Newcombe was high point man, scoring a total of fifteen points. His goals were almost all of a spectacular variety.
Wilson covered him closer during the last half and did not give him time to get placed as was the
case during the first half. Tom Anderson was the outstanding man for Davidson, though McAuley showed flashes of brilliancy. Each
of these, and a foul by Calhoun, decided the final score. It was a goal by Calhoun that decided the
final score. The line-up was as follows:

Davidson Monograms
Anderson (9) ------------- Yates (4)
Calhoun (6) -------------- McDonald (6)
Wilson (7) --------------- Newcombe (15)
Harrison (6) ------------- Neiman (4)
Simpson (4) -------------- Milstead

Substitution, Davidson: McAuley (4) for Calhoun, Calhoun for McAuley, McAuley for Simpson. Monograms: McMillan for Milstead. Referee, Gullickson.

MOORESVILLE - - - Mon., Feb. 28---“Ankles Preferred” $5.00 in Gold Given Away Free--- Lucky Ticket.
Wed., March 2---Richard Dix in “Paradise for Two.”
Thurs., March 3---Clara Bow in “Plastic Age.” Also, on the stage, Willie Kaima and his Hawaiian Guitar.
Fri., March 4---Corinne Griffith in “The Lady in Ermine.” Also, on the stage, Willie Kaima and his Hawaiian Guitar.

VICTORY THEATRE N. C.

Davidson Theatre DAVIDSON, N. C.
Mon. & Tues, Feb. 28, & March 1 Clara Bow in “It”
Wednesday, Thursday. March 2, 3 Charles Ray in “Getting Gertie’s Garter”
Friday, March 4 Billy Dove in “An Affair of the Follies”
Saturday, March 5 Tim McCoy in “Winner of the Wilderness”

ALUMNI BOOKS

The Alumni Secretary is beginning a library of books written by Davidson men. Two were obtained from Dr. P. S.
Easley, ‘04, of Statesville, at the meeting there last Tuesday night. They are books of humor, but contain considerable philosophy,
psychology, theology, and a great deal of common sense. The titles are “The Low-Down on Floridy,” and “Romancin’ Through Floridy.”
They are altogether entertaining to read. Any alumnus who has written books and will furnish the office of Alumni Secretary
with copies will aid him in making a complete selection as early as possible.

SHOES FOR DAVIDSONIANS

GILMER-MOORE high quality, of course. And they’re made for college men,---good looking, well made, styles you men like, the sort
you always prefer, by comparison.

Gilmer-Moore Company CHARLOTTE
