THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1927

Seven Summer Camps to be Held in Fourth Corps Area During Vacation

The War Department will operate seven Citizens’ Military Training Camps in the Fourth Corps Area during the summer of 1927,
for the training of young men between the ages of 17 and 24 years. These camps will open on June
15 and close on July 14, 1927. Four thousand young men will be selected to attend these camps from the
Fourth Corps Area, which comprises the states of Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana. The
Army Posts where these camps will be established and the number of young men to be trained at each camp
are as follows: Fort Barrancas, Florida, 500 Coast Artillery; Fort Bragg, North Carolina, 500 Field Artillery; Camp McClellan, Alabama, 900
Infantry; Fort McPherson, Georgia, 500 Infantry; Fort Moultrie, South Carolina, 300 Infantry; Fort Oglethorpe, Georgia, 750 Cavalry; Fort Screven, Georgia,
150 Infantry.

On account of the limited amount of funds for transportation, the young men selected for these camps will be assigned
to the camps nearest their homes. The graduates of the White Course who have been recommended for the Blue Course
in the Field Artillery, Cavalry, and Coast Artillery, will be sent to the camps where last trained. All young men
between the ages above designated who can pass the required physical examination, and are of good moral character, as certified
to by some prominent and reputable citizen who is personally acquainted with the applicant, are eligible for selection for these
camps. In case the applicant is under 21 years of age, the consent of his parent, guardian, or nearest relative
is required.

The purpose of these camps is to assemble ambitious young Americans for 30 days annually, and to train them in
citizenship, self-reliance, initiative, good fellowship, moral and spiritual conduct, and how to work hard and efficiently. The moral and religious
influences of these camps are kept at the very highest standards. Attendance at these camps constitutes no obligation of future
military service.

Scholarships to leading universities, colleges, and preparatory schools throughout the United States are awarded annually to young men attending Citizens’
Military Training Camps. These camps were inaugurated by the late President Roosevelt. They have been sponsored and endorsed by Presidents
Wilson, Harding, and Coolidge, and by the leading churchmen and educators of the United States. The sons of Presidents and
of laborers and farmers all have an equal chance, and eat, drill, and bunk side by side.

The mornings are devoted to military training, calisthenics, and instruction in citizenship, hygiene, first aid, and marksmanship. Afternoons are set
aside for wrestling, baseball, athletics, swimming, tennis, etc. Every man must compete in some form of athletics. Candidates in the
Red, White, and Blue courses receive instruction in advanced subjects during a part of the afternoons. The evenings are devoted
to vesper services, moving pictures, dances, and entertainments.

The Government furnishes all expenses, including travel from home to camp and return, camp facilities, food, clothing, medical attention, and
laundry. While there is no military obligation required by attendance at camp, the camps are a part of the National
Defense Act, and their primary mission is to build up the manhood of the nation, on which, in a national
emergency, the preservation of our institutions will rest.

DAVIDSON GLEE CLUB (Continued from page 1)

Tour concerts will be given in Columbia, Greenville, Spartanburg, and Gastonia. Full arrangements for the jaunt have not been completed,
but will be announced later. Several one-night engagements are being arranged for the latter part of the month and the
first of April. These concerts will be given at Mooresville, Lenoir, Statesville, and Denver. An interlude with Val Guthey and
J. S. McAlister as the actors has been arranged to add spice to the program. This skit is a reversion
of the one presented at Davidson earlier in the year which proved a huge success.

New Theatre Opens in Charlotte Soon

The Publix Theatres Corporation, which controls 500 theatres throughout the United States, will open the doors of the Carolina Theatre,
the finest in the Carolinas, on Monday evening, March 7th. This will be the largest and most beautiful theatre in
both North and South Carolina. It is decorated and furnished in Spanish Renaissance design. The minutest detail has been carefully
copied from the works of the master craftsmen of this period. No effort has been spared in installing every known
comfort in the theatre world, for the many thousands of patrons who will enter its doors.

The Publix Theatres has a high staff of experts, who are paid enormous salaries, to study, create, and supply hundreds
of comforting conveniences that are not found in any theatres outside their circuit. One unique feature is the lobby patterned
after a Spanish patio, which leads into an immense foyer on the orchestra floor. Here you are greeted by a
specially trained service staff, who are always on the alert to handle the largest crowds with the greatest courtesy and
efficiency. On either side of this grand foyer are two immense wide stairways leading up to the loge and balcony
seats and the spacious lounging room, public telephone room, ladies’ rest and cosmetic rooms, and gentlemen’s smoking room. These have
been luxuriously furnished with over ten thousand dollars worth of furniture, tapestries, and draperies. Here one may wait for a
friend or relative in the utmost comfort imaginable, even on the hottest days, for The Carolina has the only refrigerated
air cooling system in any theatre between Washington and Atlanta, Ga. Huge refrigerating machines will be at work at all
times, dehumidifying the dust-laden, hot city air to just the desired degree for absolute comfort and healthful stimulation. This innovation
alone should prove to the public what a marvelous theatre Charlotte will have.

The space between the rows of seats has been made extra wide and the seats are unusually large, insuring more
comfort for the patrons while they are watching the performance. The main features of the programs will be: First run
feature pictures, B. F. Keith headline Vaudeville, Overtures by the Carolina Grande Orchestra, organ solo with novelty slides by Miss
Fae Wilcox, organ soloist. In addition, there will be screen novelties, comedies, and the latest newsreels. The slogan “Finest in
the Carolinas” has been aptly chosen.Bradley Are Two of Three Men Honored

The Faculty of Union Seminary have recently elected alumni of Davidson to two of the three fellowships given by them
annually. Dunbar Hunt Ogden, Jr., son of Dunbar Hunt Ogden, D.D., of Mobile, Ala., was awarded the Moses D. Hoge
Fellowship. He is the twenty-seventh graduate of Union to receive that distinction. Ogden was a member of Davidson men as
being a Phi Beta Kappa, Q.O. D. K. man with all that such honors mean.

Mr. Samuel Hugh McCollum Bradley, son of J. W. Bradley, M.D., of Sutsein Ku, China, was given the Charles D.
Larus Fellowship. He is the fourth Union graduate to win this honor and the fifth of the sons of missionaries
to China to be made a fellow at Union. He, also, was a member of the class of '23 and
is remembered as the captain of our tennis team and twice the winner of the cup for the champion singles
player of Virginia, North and South Carolina.

The other of the three fellowships went to Mr. Holmes Rolston, Jr., of Staunton, Va., graduate of Washington and Lee.

FRESHMEN LOSE
(Continued from page 2)
Leeker (18) Smith (2)
Center Adams (0) Baker (0)
RG Warren (2) Mauzy (4)
LG Substitutions — State: Latimer, White, Barnes and Watson. Davidson: McGavock (2). Referee: Hengeveld (Davidson).

Library Receives Several New Books

Several new, intensely interesting books have been recently acquired at the Library, which will be not only interesting but educational
as well to all those who will read them. A short review of five of them is given below:

Caste and Outcast
This book carries an intimate account of the daily life of India, as told by an Oriental who writes with
passionate interest of the life he has lived and of age-old customs that are part of himself. The book contains
the most precious kind of knowledge for a modern man, the knowledge of another race and its civilization. Altogether it
is one of the most fascinating books of the present decade. — Dhan Gopal Mukerji.

With Lawrence in Arabia — Lowell Thomas
A pictorial record of the story of Allenby's conquest of the Holy Land and the hitherto unknown story of the
war in the land of Arabian Nights. The story of Colonel Lawrence's achievements in Arabia is very interesting and full
of action, and the mystery man of Arabia relates many strange and thrilling stories in this alluring book.

Adventures in Green Places — Herbert Ravenel Sass
This book brings together the best of Mr. Sass’ nature essays, many of which have appeared with distinguished success in
the Atlantic Monthly, Harper's Magazine, Housekeeping, and other periodicals. The woods, fields, rivers, mountains, seashore, and swamps of South Carolina
provide a rich and romantic background for this noted nature writer, who is a trained and careful naturalist. But his
unique combination of talents would make him notable in any background.

East of the Sun and West of the Moon — Theodore and Kermit Roosevelt
This work contains a record of the adventurous journey of the Roosevelt brothers to the “roof of the world” in
search of curious specimens of game, in which the graphic chapters are alternately written by the two authors. This expedition
carried them to the heart of the Himalayas, sometimes 17,000 feet high, and one of the great objects of the
trip was to secure heads of Ovis Poli, the famous Marco Polo sheep. They were successful as four or five
heads were secured, one of which is reproduced on the cover of the book. The whole text is written with
the well-known Roosevelt touch of adventure and scientific enthusiasm. Abundant photographs were made—both still and motion pictures—and the volume contains
many of the most striking of these.

Everybody's Pepys — Samuel Pepys
Pepys’ Diary is one of the world’s great books. For general interest, few diaries can compare with it, while as
a record of nature at work in man it is unique. It is with the idea of enabling everyone, old
and young, to enjoy the human comedy it contains, without being detained by the wider interests of the diary as
a whole, that “Everybody's Pepys” has been prepared. One finds the famous diary astonishingly modern and interesting in its new
form, as the story flows easily and naturally with a wonderful variety of interest.

SCORING
Individual scoring for the season 1926-27:
Captain Anderson
McAulay
Calhoun
Wilson
Simpson
Harrison
Hudgins
Crawford
McColgan
Kugler
Total for season:
Davidson 658
Opponents 588

FRESH SCORING
Pritchett 118
Smith 54
Mauzy 32
Johnston 44
Moore 18
McGavock 14
Baker 9
Total 289

REDS DEFEAT BLACKS
(Continued from page 2)
McConnell DeArmon
Center Wilson Hammett
DUKE GRAPPLERS
Garrison, Davidson, decision; time advantage
Farrell Unlimited class Culp, Duke, defeated Hill, Davidson, decision; time advantage, 6:08.
Officials: Bohannon, referee; McConnell, umpire; Pinkney, head linesman.

And in college
“For we are very lucky, with a lamp before the door,
And Leerie stops to light it as he lights so many more.”
— “The Lamplighter” Robert Louis Stevenson

Old Leerie, the faithful lamplighter, has gone—but streets still need lighting. The citizens of the country have taken Leerie’s job.
They are the lamplighters of today, and they spend 3 cents of each tax dollar that their streets may be
bright. Good street lighting means more flourishing business sections, safe traffic, convenience, and protection. Wherever communities of men and women
elect to live, they should take a lively interest in civic improvements—including street lighting.

G-E products help light the world, haul its people and goods, turn the wheels of industry, and lessen labor in
the home. Whether on MAZDA lamps, or on large or tiny motors, or on the multitude of other means of
electrical service, you will find the G-E monogram wherever you go.

720-49DH
GENERAL ELECTRIC
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.
