sas ae THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 5, 1927. 4s. 

[ALUMNI NEWS]

Milton Seeks New Addresses of Men

Ten class lists have recently been sent out by the alumni secretary, but a number of them have been returned. In the hope that some reader of The Davidsonian may have information concerning them, the list of returned envelopes is given below with the latest addresses. If you know of any corrections, you are asked to communicate with the alumni secretary.

Rev. J. A. Sefton, Brewton, Ala.
1877—
T. F. Smith, 114 N. Seventh St., Wilmington, N. C.
I. R. Faison, Horsecreek, Ala.
John Harvey, Henderson, N. C.

1912—
P. J. Black, Charlotte, N. C.
Dr. F. K. Haynes, Cliffside, N. C.
D. M. Killian, Jr., Maggie, N. C.
B. T. Neal, 128 Marietta St., Atlanta, Ga.

1917—
R. L. Houston, 26 W. Eris St., Chicago, Ill.
Dr. F. H. Baker, 210 S. Indiana St., Warsaw, Ind.
P. S. McMullen, Asheville, N. C.
McK. Carmichael, Chattanooga, Tenn.
J. M. Sullivan, Columbia, S. C.
H. G. Ferris, Clover, S. C.

1882—
J. H. Brown, Wabash Western R. R., St. Louis, Mo.
R. R. Little, Little’s Mill, N. C.

1887—
J. E. Davis, Route 7, Oklahoma City, Okla.
C. H. Jordan, Due West, S. C.
W. E. Jordan, Danville, Va.
W. S. Wallace, Monticello, Fla.

1892—
Robert Neely, Mooresville, N. C.

1907—
Dr. F. L. Brown, Scottsville, N. C.
J. D. Brown, Graham, Va.

1922—
Smith Murphy, 1215 Walnut St., Sumner, Miss.

Milton and Jackson Go to Alumni Assemblage

Rev. W. J. McLean, First National Bank, Birmingham, Ala.
Prof. F. P. Ramsey, Kendall College, Tulsa, Okla.
W. D. Vardell, New Orleans, La.
Francis Wilkes, Wyandotte, Okla.
G. K. Witmer, Birmingham, Ala.
Auburn Woods, Columbia, S. C.

New Ideas Obtained for Promulgation of Alumni Work

Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of this institution and the Alumni Association of Davidson College, and Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, last week attended a meeting of the National Association of Alumni Secretaries, Alumni Magazines Associated, and Alumni Funds, which was held at Chapel Hill, the University of North Carolina being hosts to these three bodies which were merged into one.

Over 125 delegates attended the conference, representing approximately 100 institutions, among which were included the largest colleges and universities in America. A rather complete program of events had been arranged by the national officers for this occasion, many papers being read dealing with all phases of alumni work. The two Davidson representatives outlined the local situation to some of the outstanding men present, and sought their advice as to the procedure of organization at Davidson.

Many ideas were obtained for the promulgation of the work of the Davidson College Alumni Association, some of which will be instituted immediately, and others as time passes. One of the central ideas throughout the meeting was the need for a more organized approach to alumni relations.

The local Sunday School celebrated its anniversary Sunday on April 24th. The service was held in the afternoon, and the primary and junior children received rewards for special phases of the work they had successfully completed.

Any industrial worker who moves things by hand is doing work that electricity can do for about 6 cents an hour. More than 60 percent of the mechanical power used by American industry is applied through electric motors. But the electrification of the tasks performed by manpower has hardly begun. Electric power not only saves dollars; it conserves human energy for better purposes and raises standards of living. College men and women may well consider how electricity can lessen the burdens of industry and of farm and home life.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.

You will find this monogram on all kinds of electric equipment. It is a symbol of quality and a mark of service.

FOR YOUR NEXT YEAR’S SUBSCRIPTION

In order that you may continue to keep up with the many happenings of the Davidson campus and not miss a single copy of The Davidsonian when publication starts next fall, clip this coupon immediately and mail to P. J. Garrison, care of The Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C. Of course, it is necessary that a check for $2.50 accompany it so that your subscription will continue throughout the year.

Extensive Alumni Program Planned

Alumni have been returning to Davidson from year to year of their own accord, and have largely wandered about with no one to direct them or to see that their wants were satisfied. Officials of the Alumni Association this year, however, are planning to make a change, and will make an effort to reserve a dormitory for the use of alumni while on the campus, and have a central place to stay, as well as using other methods to make them feel at home.

Class reunions are being stressed, those of 1877, 1882, 1887, 1892, 1897, 1902, 1907, 1912, 1917, 1922, and 1926 being scheduled.To return to Davidson. In order that an invitation might reach each one of them, the alumni secretary recently mailed out addressed sheets to all of the classes, asking for corrections on the addresses of individuals, and of any others that they might be able to give. As a result, many new ones have been obtained. Some member of each class has been asked to write a letter, inviting their colleagues to be present at commencement time, which is in addition to the general invitation that will be extended to every alumnus. The lists served this purpose, as well as giving opportunity for each man to learn where his classmates were located.

Registration prior to their coming will be asked of each alumnus, enabling the authorities to make arrangements ahead of time, giving them an idea as to the approximate number who will be present. Badges will also be worn by each individual, giving his name, class, and present address, so that all classes will become better acquainted, and each individual will have the opportunity to learn about the other Davidson graduates. It is planned to utilize one of the dormitories which will have the least number of student occupants during the commencement as a place for the former Davidson men to stay. It will be arranged according to classes, those of 1877, 1882, etc., being on the first floor and on up to the top, where the recently graduated will be placed. Many other details are being worked out for the entertainment and comfort of men who will return to their Alma Mater.

Customer—“I want a pair of specrimmed hornicles—I mean spornrimmed hectables—confound, I mean heck-rimmed spornacles.”
Floor-walker Dunlop—“I know what you mean, sir. Mr. Perkes, show this gentleman a pair of rim-sporned hectacles.”

THE BEST PLACE TO EAT
Brown's Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE

Students, Register

Registration of the students for next year has not been completed, according to Registrar Hengeveld, and will probably not be completed until the latter part of this week. The members of the rising Sophomore class have not completed their registration, but it is thought that the enrollment will about tally with that of the Sophomore class of this year. According to statistics received from Mr. Hengeveld, the enrollment for next year will be practically the same as that of this year. An unusually large Junior class has been registered, as 103 men have already signed up for Junior work. This will limit the Freshman class to the same number as this year’s Freshman class, or about 240 men. The Junior class for next year will be the largest that has been in the college for several years. Besides the men who have already signed up, there will be a few newcomers, who will raise the total enrollment to about 115. Since the date on which the registration fee is due is not until May 10th, an exact report of the enrollment will not be issued until then, but it may be said that there are already enough applications in to bring the enrollment for next year up to the average enrollment at Davidson.

Twenty-five Fresh Debaters Try Out

On Tuesday night, April 12th, the tryouts for the Freshman debating team were held in Shearer Hall. Twenty-five men, representing the oratorical ability of the first-year class, contested for the honor of representing Davidson in the annual debate with Carolina. The presiding officer for the occasion was Henry Powell, and the three judges who made the selections were Jim Appleby, Jim McAlpine, and W. K. Pritchett. Each speaker was limited to eight minutes and was given the privilege of discussing any phase of the question desired. The contestants spoke one after another before the same judges, and the tryouts lasted almost four hours. The affirmative team is composed of J. W. Williams, of Linden, N. C., with C. R. Pritchett, of Reidsville, N. C., as an alternate. The negative is composed of Murray Christian, of Mobile, Ala., and Alex Edelman, of Goldsboro, N. C., with W. J. Beavers, of Atlanta, Ga., as an alternate. The debate with Carolina is scheduled for May 2nd, but as the teams representing the University will not be selected until April 28th and due to spring holidays, the date will probably be postponed. The affirmative will debate on home soil, while the negative makes a trip to Carolina. Both teams are hard at work just now and are hopeful of adding further victories to the freshman debating record.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY

You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.