2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1927

Barium Downed By Kitten Grapplers

Wrestling for the first time this season, the Freshman grapplers won their meet from Barium Springs Friday night by a score of 20-13. The Freshmen showed fine form and exceeded the expectations of everyone. All the men showed the result of hard work and effort. Kilgore, in the 115-pound class, threw Donaldson, of Barium. Brown gained a fall over Brown, of Barium. Cowan was thrown by Brown, of Barium. Brown, in the 135-pound class, for Barium, wrestled both Cowan and Brown, of Davidson. Brown, of Davidson, was matched against Potter, of Barium, and won his match by a fall. Yancey, in the 145-pound class, for Davidson, lost by a fall to Jackins, of Barium. Gaines won his match by a fall over Lee, of Barium, in the 145-pound class. Brohardt, in the 155-pound class, for Davidson, lost on time to Brock, of Barium. Christenbury, of Davidson, won a fall over T. Brock of Barium, in the 160-pound class. Brohardt was a feature man in the meet, for he has only recently reported for the team. The team is at a great disadvantage in not having anyone out in the heavyweight class. It is not too late to come out for the team. Captain Weems will probably schedule meets with Winston-Salem High School and Salisbury High School at an early date.

FRESH TO BANQUET
(Continued from page 1)

...ed an invitation from the Chamber of Commerce. The banquet was not planned by the Freshmen, but they were invited as the guests of the Chamber of Commerce. Miss Mary Lafferty spent a while last week with friends in Concord.

First Year Men Return From State-Wide Tour Embracing Four Games

Lose to Oak Ridge, State and Duke But Conquer Wake Forest

The Freshman basketball team returned last Friday after a fairly successful trip through the state. The yearlings played four games in six days, winning one and losing three. The first game was with Oak Ridge, in the western part of the state. This game was dropped by the score of 46-25. The game was close at times, but the Fresh lacked the extra punch necessary to win. Pritchett was high point man for Davidson, with 11 points, and Pierce led for Oak Ridge with 17 points. Summary of the game:

Davidson Position Oak Ridge
Johnson (6) Garrett (8)
Pritchett (11) Ferrell (14)
McGavock (2) Rand (7)
Moore (1) Scott

Substitutions—Davidson: Smith, Christian. Oak Ridge: Beaver.

The Kittens next jumped to N. C. State and hooked up with the State Fresh. The first few minutes of the game were well played and close, but the Kitten defense cracked, allowing State to run wild to the tune of 45 to 9. Summary of the game follows:

PLAYING THE GAME WITH WITHERS

Guilford and Lenoir Baseball Practice

Calhoun Shines No Battery Men

After a series of stunning blows dealt the basketball team by Duke and State, the Wildcats returned to the Hill to beat both Guilford and Lenoir-Rhyne in games played Thursday and Saturday nights. The first contest was a high-scoring affair with the local basketeers holding a commanding lead throughout. The first half ended with Davidson leading 28 to 9. The playing of R. G. Calhoun, a newcomer in the starting ranks of the Wildcats, was outstanding. He was high scorer of the night, ringing up 19 points and presenting one of the prettiest floor games of the year. Calhoun has played in several games before this encounter but was starting his initial varsity contest. He was high scorer of the class tournament last fall and by work on the "Cowboy" team of last season won a berth on the varsity squad the last part of the 1926 season. All of which reminds us of the feat Calhoun pulled in a "Cowboy" game last year. He entered the contest with Davidson holding the short end of the score by a discouraging margin of 15 points. Five minutes to go. Whir, went the referee’s whistle, and Calhoun had made two points. Again, again, until when the contest was over Davidson had won, Calhoun making 15 points in the five minutes he was in the game.

The game with Lenoir-Rhyne was a different kind of contest. The Lutherans fought fiercely throughout and several times threatened to take the game. Had it not been for the superb guarding of Wilson, lanky Davidson center and guard, the Wildcats would have lost.

Baseball Season Opens

Call in Issue for Pitchers and Catchers

Captain Woodham Conducts Initial Work-Out of Year—Others Out Soon

The crack of the baseball bat will soon be heard coming from the direction of Richardson Field. Then Coach Monk will have his diamond stars out and another season will be under way. The call for pitchers and catchers was issued Monday morning, and they began preliminary warming up that afternoon. Regular practice will start just as soon as the weather permits. The Wildcats’ chance of success on the diamond this year is very good indeed. From last season we have the following letter men: Woodham, Wells, Dulin, Glenn, Kugler, Davis, and Johnson. All of these men have shown up well in the past. Others from last year’s Fresh squad, and those who have been out before, who stand a good chance for the team are: Ratchford, Ramsey, Crawford, Meadows, Murray, Oden, Poole, Black, McGeachy, Covington, R., and “Lefty” Hampton. With this material to start with, the Wildcats ought to find their way to the top. Manager Barnhardt is arranging a stiff schedule for the nine, and it has not been completed.quite as yet. However, several good trips have been definitely settled upon. The first and probably the hardest of the trips will be to Atlanta, during which time Wofford, Furman, and Clemson will be met, then two games with Oglethorpe, in Atlanta. These games will be played during April 7-12. April 27-29 will find the Wildcats touring their own state and meeting Elon, State, and Carolina on their own diamonds. The season will be opened this year as usual by two games with Oak Ridge. The annual Easter Monday game with Carolina, one of the best played games of the trip, will again be played at Salisbury.

Davidson, Fresh, Pos. State Fresh
Wodaveryoint (Q) RN
Pritchett (4) ----- B
Eyed ge ees Fresh Country Vegetables
Smith, Via CONe= Center
McGavock ----- RGsecscese Adams (2)
STAPLE AND FANCY
Warren GROCERIES
Substitutions—State: White, Daughtery, Karr (14), Barnes, Moss, Haws (2), Fellows, Watson, Griffin. Davidson: Heefner, Christian.

The Wildkittens, bent on revenge, next met the Wake Forest Yearlings. This was and resulted in a 29-25 victory for the Kittens.

(Continued on page 5)

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Drinks Candy Smokes
Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N. C.
WHOLESALE
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Perhaps not today or tomorrow, but Weather Bureau records show that every section of the country has its windstorm sometime. It pays to carry enough Windstorm Insurance.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McALISTER CARSON ('13)

Action toward Davidson's loop. Hodge, Lenoir running guard, was the high point man of the evening. Monday saw the first official baseball practice of the 1927 season when Coach Younger issued a call for the battery men. Captain and time again Wilson would jump high into the air to nab a Lutheran pass and start the action.

Other probable games to be played here on the Hill are those with Elon, Lenoir-Rhyne, Duke, V. P. I., Furman, Wofford, State, and the Citadel. The schedule for the season will be finished by next week, and all dates definitely set.

Let's stick behind the Wildcat nine and make them state champs!

Davidson Golfers Chosen This Week

The Davidson College golf team will be chosen in the next few days, from a score or more of strong contenders. The ones turning in the best scores for the past week are: Steve McGill, 71; Billy Wolf, 74; English Love, 76; Arthur Mills, 77; along with a host of other golfers. There are others who deserve merit for their consistent work and their golf ability. Johnny Foster, Sloppy Lingle, Mason Carroll, and Hamp Jennings are prospective members for the team. A splendid spirit along with beautiful weather has put everyone in good spirits and the indications are that we will have a team worthy to represent this institution.

The players have been going strong all season, having defeated Statesville and Concord in the past fall. The plans for the spring season are much more elaborate and are composed of several inter-collegiate matches. Matches have been arranged with Concord and Statesville again this spring. Matches are being negotiated with both Georgia Tech and the University of Alabama and the indications are that these matches will be played over the Charlotte Country Club's course. Salisbury will probably be added to the schedule for this spring. There will be a tournament conducted in the near future to select the best golf player on the Hill. All men interested in golf are urged to give their names to Steve McGill this week so that a list can be made.

TOWN NEWS

Mrs. W. J. Martin left on Monday for an extended visit with her daughter Mrs. A. L. Currie, of Paducah, Ky. The Sorosis Club was entertained on Friday evening by Mrs. A. L. Hobbs. They were surprised with a beautiful Valentine luncheon. Prof. and Mrs. McGrew and their daughter Miss McGrew gave a very pleasing musical program following the luncheon. Last Thursday afternoon, Mrs. C. M. Richards entertained a number of her friends at tea. Mrs. Watts was called home last Friday night because of the serious illness of her mother.

FOR THAT TASTE OF Home Cooking On Your Way Home
New York Cafe
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
29 West Trade St.

Plans to have the infielders and fly chasers out before the first of March to get limbered up and ready for the stiff grinds under the coaches late in the season. Prospects are bright for excellent infielders and keepers of the outer gardens, but the team will be woefully lacking in pitchers unless some unhailed and unsung stars are uncovered. With Captain Woodham on first, and Kugler, Glenn, and Dulin—all letter men, and Crawford, Littlejohn, and Handcock, from last year’s fresh outfit, to contest for infield positions, and Davis and Johnson, of last year’s varsity, and Ratchford and Murray, of the former rats, in the outfield, these positions seem to be well fortified. Lucien Wells looms as the only bright spot in a long list of untried hurlers. Wells’ real place is in the field, but he has pitched a number of creditable games. He is sure of a position on the hurling staff.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
CHARLOTTE GREENVILLE
S&W Cafeterias
ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.
Selby Ice Cream Co.
GOOD ICE CREAM
Statesville, N.C.