6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1927

Classicists Select Men Club Members

At a recent meeting of the newly organized Classical Club of Davidson, three neophytes were bid for membership. These three
men are the only new men who will be initiated this scholastic year. They were initiated at a meeting of
the club held Friday night, April 1st. The honored men are Reid Graham, E. P. Moye, and W. E. Hill.

Reid Graham, from Hamlet, N. C., is one of the outstanding scholars of the Sophomore class since he won the
Alumni Medal given to the Freshman who made the highest average of his class. He is a member of the
Reporters’ Club, was a member of the Freshman Debating team and the Fresh-Soph team of last year. Graham’s work in
Latin and Greek has been excellent.

E. P. Moye, from Columbus, Ga., is a student greatly interested in the classical languages. He has already had two
years’ work in both Italian and Greek and plans to continue his study of them. He is interested in the
religious work of the campus, being a member of the Ministerial Band and the C. E. Training Class.

W. E. Hill, from Richmond, Va., a member of the Sophomore class, is another man who is deeply interested in
the religious life of Davidson. He has recently been elected one of the vice-presidents of the Y. M. C. A.
He is also president of the local Senior Christian Endeavor and a member of the Ministerial Band.

The present membership now consists of Dr. C. R. Harding, Dr. W. R. Grey, Prof. J. C. Bailey, H. C.
Johnston, J. S. Grey, W. K. Pritchett, and the three new members.

“Y” Notes

Now that the Spring Evangelistic Services are almost over, with only one remaining meeting, it is high time that you
face your life squarely and ask the age-old question, “What am I going to do with my life?” It is
up to each man to face this problem squarely and answer it for himself.

Remember installation services this coming Sunday in which the old officers will give place to the new. The retiring president,
“Bill” Christian, will charge the new “Y” cabinet, headed by Charley McRae. Also, some faculty member of the “Y” Board
of Control will charge the student body. The new president will then accept the charge and receive the formal installation.

The following Sunday, Easter, there will be a short Vesper Service, featuring a musical program and a very short talk.
This will probably be held on the campus.

Remember, Dr. Workman, head of the “School of Religion” at the University of North Carolina, will be here the last
Sunday of the month. During that week, E. Darby Fulton, traveling secretary for the Foreign Mission Board of the Southern
Presbyterian Church, will conduct a Mission Institute, and all that are interested are cordially urged to take part.

With the advent of the new cabinet, each man should reaffirm his pledge to the Y. M. C. A. and
endeavor to take an active part and have a share in the work of the Young Men’s Christian Association.

SERVICEABLE CAREER OF WEEMS (Continued from page 1)

Captain Elkins will remain here this summer on this duty. Lieutenant Beckett will be stationed at Fort Bragg near Fayetteville,
with the R. O. T. C. Unit there. Captain Daugherty will also be on that type of duty at Bragg.
Captain Weems will be in the R. O. T. C. Unit at Camp McClellan, Alabama. After the summer work, Captain
Weems will attend the Command and Staff School at Leavenworth, Kansas. It may be of interest to those who remember
Major T. T. Hearn, commander at Davidson before the present P. M. S. & T., to know that he will
be at Leavenworth also.

One of the primal reasons for Davidson receiving the distinguished rating last year was due to the persistent efforts of
Captain Weems. He has stimulated great interest in this type of work at Davidson and his R. O. T. C.

Purpose of R.O.T.C. Training Develops Youth and Provides Officer Material

The Reserve Officers’ Training Corps was organized for a dual purpose—to develop the young men of the nation physically and
mentally and to provide potential officer material in the event of another national emergency. The idea of giving college men
military training to further the purpose set forth found ready favor with the colleges and universities of the country, with
the result that at the present time there exists a waiting list of high schools and colleges who are anxious
to have a unit at their school, but who are denied the privilege because of lack of funds for instructor
personnel and equipment.

Like any regularly organized association, the R. O. T. C. has aims and ideals of a high type. It seeks
to develop a spirit of initiative in the college man which will give him a mental attitude inclined toward leadership
after he leaves college. Men with military training, especially if this training has comprised the exercise of command and leadership,
are ordinarily found as leaders of their communities, this ability to lead having been inculcated during the practical training in
leadership received while a member of the R. O. T. C.

The letters R. O. T. C. have been interpreted to mean Respect, Obedience, Teamwork, and Character by a prominent California
clergyman, and the training given by the R. O. T. C. is along such lines. The value to the government
is only potential whereas the value to the nation in the creation or development of better citizens is actual. The
spirit of service for the community is stressed and is practically demonstrated here at Davidson in more ways than one.
The organization of the battalion into a fire department whose duty it is to give fire protection not only to
the college but to the town is one instance of the effort to render actual service. The training of a
band for playing at athletic contests, the handling of traffic at football games, the supplying of military-trained men to handle
the crowds and maintain order at large gatherings are other instances.

The R. O. T. C. develops a non-militaristic attitude on the part of the student. Having learned of the horrors
of war, he becomes a staunch supporter of national peace, being willing to relinquish this peace only as a last
resort. His entire training is given along the lines of peace at any price—except dishonor.

During the World War, there were about 200,000 officers in the Army; of this number, about 150,000 had had no
previous experience with troops. As in any other activity, experience is essential to success in war. The R. O. T.
C. will obviate the condition as regards the officers in another war.

Davidson Students Hear Mr. Walpole

Among those present at the lecture which was given by Hugh Walpole in Charlotte at the Chamber of Commerce on
Monday night, March 28th, was a group of about a dozen Davidson students. They were also at the buffet supper
which was given in honor of Mr. Walpole at the New Charlotte Hotel just before the lecture. At both of
these affairs, the boys were the guests of Mrs. R.

Dr. Gammon Leads College Life Work

Dr. Gammon, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Selma, Ala., opened the annual spring life-work meetings of the Y.
M. C. A. last Sunday evening. “This one thing thou lackest,” and he sent forth an appeal for every young
man present to give his life and all for the Master.

An added feature of the Vesper Service was a vocal selection by the Columbia Seminary Quartet, annual visitors to the
campus.Life, Dr. Gammon, pastor. His text consisted of the words, "Five Years Ago." The baseball season, under Coach “Dutch” Hengeveld,
has just completed the most successful season ever enjoyed by a Wildcat team, having won ten out of the thirteen
games played. The basketball D’s were awarded by “Dandy Jim.” The Davidsonian staff is named for the coming year. Golden
quills were awarded. Old and new men on the staff have a banquet. Phi Society stages mock colored Junior Speaking.
All societies have good programs. Coach Wooly Grey selects the 1922 track squad at time trials. V. P.-I. meet here
Saturday on Sprunt Field. The baseball team.

Dr. Gammon pointed out that the meeting between the rich young man and Christ was very strange because it was
usually the poor people who came to Him. He said that there were five things in the life of this
young man, any one of which any ordinary individual would be happy to possess. These possessions were: riches, youth, personality,
social prestige, and character. One thing which the speaker declared that he did not have was the right relationship with
God. He had everything that his heart could desire but could not understand why he was not happy and so
he appealed to Jesus, who told him to sell his possessions and give to the poor. Dr. Gammon stated that
it was not necessarily the same thing that this certain young man had to give up that would bring peace
and happiness for the young man of today, but that it might be anything that keeps him from being a
Christian. “I know you have great problems and that there are things in your life and mine that are hard
to give up, but Jesus will come in and these lacks will be filled when we give up these things,”
he concluded.

Lingle Recuperates Following Illness

Latest reports from Charlotte are that W. L. Lingle, popularly known on the campus as “Sloppy,” is resting very comfortably
after his operation for appendicitis. He was taken to the hospital last Sunday night. Lingle will remain in Charlotte for
several weeks more, and will visit his home in Richmond about the middle of April. After a stay of about
two weeks at home, Sloppy will return to Davidson and resume his studies. Unfortunately, he is forced to miss several
campus activities due to his illness. He was considered a favorable candidate for the golf team and very likely would
have taken part in the spring matches. It is feared that he will not be able to take part in
this sport any more this year. He was also prominent in class activities, being chairman of the Committee of General
Arrangements for Junior. He is also the retiring managing editor of the staff. The staff joins together in expressing their
sympathy for him in his illness. Mrs. Lingle has been at the bedside of her son since his operation and
spent the last several days at Davidson, visiting friends and relatives here.

SPECIAL MANEUVERS AND REVIEW (Continued from page 1)

A. Dunn, a member of the Charlotte branch of the Fine Arts Association of North Carolina, the organization which brought
Mr. Walpole to Charlotte. Since this association was established in the latter part of last year, it has brought one
other man besides Mr. Walpole to Charlotte, this other man having been Lt. Commander Byrd. In his lecture, Mr. Walpole
contrasted the novel of the Victorian period with the novel of today in a very delightful and entertaining manner. Starting
with the earliest of the eighteenth-century novelists, Fielding, Richardson, Scott, and Jane Austen, the speaker traced the history of the
novel, through all its various changes and developments, to the product of the modern novelist of today.

This history of the novel was offered as an example of the truth of his statement that, “In our civilization
now, there seems to be a danger of crushing the arts by speed, machinery, and by materialism.” He said that
the element of narration has almost disappeared from the modern novel, which is tending more and more to “absorb the
world of the philosophic essay.” Mr. Walpole concluded by remarking that there is now a conflict between the two types,
and that whether or not the novel will live depends on how it adapts itself, indicating that its usefulness will
be lost if it continues the trend toward the philosophic rather than the narrative.

Wake Forest is defeated by a rally in the last inning, a win over Catawba, and a defeat at the
hands of Trinity completes the week’s card. Dr. John M. Wells, president of Columbia, was the speaker at “Y” vesper
services. His subject was “Quit you like men.” A new course is added. Students may major in Commerce under the
B.S. degree. The hour system is to be used next year. Tuition is raised from $37.50 to $50.00 per term.
Foundation for East and West dormitories laid. Work to commence at once. The dormitories are to be built alike to
save expenses. The new buildings are to be completed by the opening of college next year.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE BATTALION (Continued from page 1)

The winning of the Distinguished College rating means that a college has shown exceptional efficiency along the lines of military
training. Only thirty percent of the colleges in the United States that have R.O.T.C. units can get it. Each college
is graded on a percentage basis when inspected by War Department representatives and the colleges getting the highest grades are
given the award. In addition to the feeling of satisfaction of having been made a Distinguished College because of work
well done, a certain percentage of the graduates of these colleges are eligible for commission as Second Lieutenant in the
Regular Army each year. This policy offers the young man with military instincts an opportunity to make it his life
work. Those of us who are interested in the R.O.T.C.—and this means everybody on the campus from Dr. Martin to
Charlie—hope that this year there is significance in the fact that the initials D.C. stand for both Distinguished College and
Davidson College, the two being synonymous. The winning of the state football championship this year demonstrated the fact that Davidson
occupied a bright spot in the athletic world; the winning of the Distinguished College rating again this year will demonstrate
that Davidson is maintaining her traditions of trying to excel in all branches.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N.C.

WHOLESALE
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Braeburn is a master at creating unusual clothing for college men - the subtle punch that pleases. And the prices
won’t make you “dizzy.” This history of the novel was offered as an example of the truth of his statement
that, “In our civilization now, there seems to be a danger of crushing the arts by speed, machinery, and by
materialism.” He said that the element of narration has almost disappeared from the modern novel, which is tending more and
more to “absorb the world of the philosophic essay.” Mr. Walpole concluded by remarking that there is now a conflict
between the two types, and that whether or not the novel will live depends on how it adapts itself, indicating
that its usefulness will be lost if it continues the trend toward the philosophic rather than the narrative.

$35 to $50
MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
