4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE McFARLIN: Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD: Business Manager
A. N. BROWN: Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT: Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY: Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE: Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE: Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS: Associate Editor
T. D. WITHERSPOON: Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH: Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY: Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY: Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON: Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL: Assistant Business Manager
P. L. SARRATT: Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON: Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS: Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE: Solicitor
E. H. McCALL: Solicitor

Reporters’ Club
W. H. BAILEY: President
L. E. ELY: Vice-President
R. GRAHAM: Secretary-Treasurer
P. ANDERSON
R. W. McDERMOTT
W. H. BEST
W. B. MOORE
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D. MILLER
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A. MILNER
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. PRATT
R. F. JARRATT
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LONG
W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

THE MELANCHOLY DAYS ARE HERE

The Davidsonian has always been known to conform to tradition and custom. Sometimes things like that help a lot. It
seems to be traditional among collegiate journals that at least three or four editorials be written each year on college
spirit, this editorial running alternately with the regular editorials on “Keep Off the Grass.” So far this year, The Davidsonian
has been a heretic and refused to run any article on college spirit. Upperclassmen have heard enough of it, freshmen
were pumped full of it at the first of the year, and everyone carefully omits an article like this when
he is reading a paper. But possibly someone would feel slighted if we failed to comment at least once on
this hackneyed old subject. We know there will be nothing new that we can include in the article. A subject
that has been rehashed as thoroughly as this one has been so overworked that it is practically impossible to bring
out any new thoughts. Which brings us to the crux of our argument. The students of Davidson have been so
imbued with the idea that a Davidson spirit does exist on the campus that they have completely overlooked the fact
that they are the vital elements of such a spirit.

Last year it was very easy to effervesce with jubilant Davidson spirit. It was easy to back a winning team,
it was easy to throw all of one’s support to the first State championship team that Davidson has had in
a number of years. Other teams were unfortunate, the Wildcats had numerous breaks, and the team here was an excellent
piece of machinery. There is no attempt whatsoever to detract any of the glory from a team which won it
so justly and cleanly, but there is an attempt to criticize the attitude of some in the student body toward
the outcome of the present football season. There has been no definite outburst of criticism against the team but there
is a slight undercurrent running through the student body at present. This has been voiced in bull-sessions,—surprise has been expressed
at the showing of the team in some of the recent contests. This is not an expression of the entire
student body, but the opinions of a few must of necessity have some influence on the opinions and ideas of
others.

On the editorial page of the Tar Heel a few days ago there appeared two Open Forum articles. One student
wondered what was the matter with the football team. In the article following another student listed the unfortunate defeats which
Carolina has suffered this year and criticized the coaching staff and football affairs in general. The second article was an
answer to the first. A team unsupported by its student body can never be a real victor in any contest.
There are some who believe that this is being developed at Davidson. The contests already played are things of the
past. There are two more games on the schedule and both of these are state teams. One is to be
played at Davidson, on a holiday, on the date of the other the faculty will grant the students a holiday
to attend the game if a special train is run to the scene of the contest. The attitude of the
student body will determine to a large degree the chances for success in these encounters. This general idea has been
drilled into the heads of all here at Davidson time after time, and from outward appearances it has taken no
effect whatsoever. It is an idea which everyone takes for granted and refuses to consider the personal element.

There is very little criticism of the way the student body backed the team last Saturday at Greensboro. Even though
Davidson was on the losing side practically all of the way, the stands were putting out some excellent organized cheering.
But anyone can put on their best manners before company. Everyone knows that the team works five days to play
one, and yet very few think that the student body should put in as much intensive training. The general attitude
of the student body during the week preceding a game has much to do with the outcome of the conflict.
The trend of bull sessions, much as one is apt to disbelieve it, is the general attitude of the student
body and the team cannot help but feel this attitude.

The ones who criticize should stop to remember the strides that other football teams in the state have taken this
year. The plays Davidson used two or three years ago as tricky and clever are the regular thing now. Davidson
has not retrograded, there are many who believe that the team here this year is just as good as some
of the past two or three years. The main fact is that other teams have developed rapidly in the past
year. There is no one who can say that the Davidson team this year has not fought. Every man on
the squad has wanted to win every game as much, and very probably more, than anyone in the stands. They
have done their best and we are not capable of criticizing anyone who has put out all that he has.

Next week Davidson plays the team with which it is now tied for fourth place in the state race. The
result of this game will determine whether or not Davidson drops from the peaks of a championship in one year
to the very bottom of the ladder the next. It is vitally essential that the student body be here this
coming Saturday to aid the team in any way that it may. Then if they lose there is no criticism;
if the team loses with the student body absent, the students have no one to blame but themselves.

LIFE SERVICE MEETINGS

During the first three days of the coming week, Dr. Vander Meulen, of Louisville Theological Seminary will be present on
the campus for a series of meetings. To some men this means much, to others little. To the man who
is thinking of what he will do when he leaves college, it is essential in his own mind that they
attend these meetings. To those who have decided and to those who have not decided on various religious questions, it
is important that they attend these meetings in a receptive mood.

A clear-minded man accepts with delight the privilege of hearing an educated man discuss an intelligent subject. Next week an
excellent speaker will discuss a subject close to everyone’s heart, and it is only natural that many will want to
hear him. There also will be many who will fail to attend these meetings and will miss much valuable advice
on various subjects. Every man on the campus automatically becomes a member of the Y. M. C. A. when he
matriculates in the institution. Some never consider this again, and others think of it as the most important part of
their college lives. The student body should support the “Y” in anything it undertakes, since it composes the organization of
the “Y” itself. But here every man should support and attend these meetings for his own personal good and development.
There is no question of patriotism or sympathetic support, but it should be rather of personal interest to each man.

We are still waiting for some overheated, intensely collegiate editor to burst into flame and print an editorial for whichhe
will be shipped. Only one has done this so far this year, at Rochester Tech, and one every two months
is a poor average. The diamond, which is an insulator for electricity, is one of the best conductors of heat.
Yucatan has a law compelling employers in rural districts to open schools for the children of their employees.

Ollapodrida | College Comment

A son of Israel, defiant, stood before the criminal court of Paris. He was a murderer. Before a packed courtroom,
he was telling of the crime, not in halting tones but in a strong defiant speech. In a straightforward manner,
he told the court of the horrors of the Ukraine during the regime of Simon Petlura, of the anguish that
his people had suffered. For years he had hunted their tormentor until his chance came in Paris. Walking up to
him, he shot him five times and gave himself up to the police. The Semitic onlookers cheered. The jury retired,
returned in one hour and a half, and gave a verdict of acquittal. The crowd shouted “Vive la France.” Sholem
Schwartzbard, the murderer, retired to seclusion in fear of anti-Semitic assassins. A man who had committed a premeditated murder had
been set free. Morally, the jury was right, but the courts of France have been weakened materially by the case.

In Bolivia, four men came before the courts and were pronounced guilty of the murder of General Jose Manuel Pando.
Only one must die for the crime. Three white ballots and one black were placed in a box. The four
drew. A twenty-eight-year-old soldier drew the black ballot and was sentenced to death. Fervently, he pronounced his innocence and prayed
for a quick execution. The authorities took pity and are seeking a pardon for the young man. Morally, all four
should die, but one should not suffer while the other three live.

For fifty-eight years, the Bellevue hospital emergency ward has taken in suffering and extinct humans of New York from the
outside court. There is no record of the number, but in the last twenty-five years, 1,500,000 sick, mangled, or dead
persons have been brought to its doors and some 1,175,000 others with minor injuries. Last week, the ward was emptied
and moved to new quarters. A key was sought for the outer door, but none could be found. In fifty-eight
years, it had not been locked. Only the minister is on par with the faithful physician as the servant of
humanity, and the minister is not called upon for such continuous service.

Norway and Scandinavian countries have furnished many great men to the world, especially in exploration and literature, but who knows
that Knute Rockne emigrated from that almost polar land some forty years ago. Since 1919, his name has been heard
around the United States as a wizard-like gridiron coach. In eight years or more, he has fought through hard schedules,
won 64 games, lost 6, and tied 3, the last blemish less than a week ago. When interviewed, he gave
out his one diet precept for his team: “Eat no chocolate, cocoa, greasy fried potatoes, pork, or bananas.” That rule
will benefit anyone’s physical condition materially.

While other technical schools are increasing language requirements, the Case School of Applied Science has eliminated all language courses from
its curricula. Economics and history have been substituted. The reason for the action was that the graduates found too little
use for their foreign knowledge. Educational authorities frown upon such an action. In this day of easy international communication, no
one’s education is complete without some knowledge of other tongues.

Keeping up his reputation for a lot of noise and a big ballyhoo, the renowned mayor of Chicago wired two
thousand state and national executives inviting them to join an “America First” club for the sum of ten dollars. No
disposition was provided for the twenty thousand dollar proceeds. The organization met with a setback. Ridiculous, ironical answers were forthcoming.
Beloit, Wis., furnished the best answer with the suggestion that the country be rid of English sparrows rather than an
antiquated British ruler. In this case, to be practical was to be witty.

W. L. L. Thomas D. Green, owner of the Woodward Hotel, New York City, who was reelected president of the
American Hotel Association, has pledged his support to a proposed program to install a hotel management course in every leading
university in the country. Mr. Green predicts that the course, which is now offered at Cornell University, will be adopted
by other institutions in the near future.

Mr. Guy Morrison Walker has recently given a thousand dollars to DePauw University, his Alma Mater, to provide at each
commencement a Walker Cup to be awarded to the member of the senior class who has most truly served the
university during his four years’ course.

Farmers of the Middle West purchase more brooms than any other household article. Flowers picked in the morning in Holland
are on sale the same afternoon in Berlin, being carried by airplane from one country to the other.

The plan adopted at the recent Press Association convention relative to the establishment of a state inter-collegiate press bureau should
bear much fruit. It will help to band the colleges of the state together more closely, and it will also
aid the various institutions in developing their respective papers in a number of ways.

The Queen is dead! Long live the Queens! Our esteemed contemporary, Queens College, seems to be in rather a turmoil
over the developments of a recent election. A May queen for the festivities next spring was elected and according to
reports, there was some “dirty work” going on somewhere during the election. No less than five Open Forum articles appeared
on the editorial page of the school paper in its last issue and all were concerned with the great tragedy
of politics entering the campus.

Carolina will use its new $300,000 stadium for the first time next Saturday when they meet Davidson in the annual
embroglio. Co-eds at Austin College, Sherman, Texas, have organized a Co-Ed Pep Squad to aid the cheering in the football
contests. Evidently, the college man has had enough of the “wild and wasteful ocean.” Two attempts to start floating universities
have failed this year due to insufficient enrollment.

Recent figures from Emory University show that members of O. D. K. had an average for the past year higher
than any other organization on the campus. They even excelled the average of A. E. U., honorary scholastic fraternity, corresponding
to Phi Beta Kappa.

The new Whitfield building at the Mississippi State College for Women is rapidly assuming shape and will be ready for
occupancy next semester. The various schools in Mississippi have combined their humorous magazine and now publish only one for the
entire state. The first issue of this magazine, Hoi Polloi, appeared last week.

At the University of Georgia, the co-eds are to have a drum, fife, and bugle corps. And now who dares
mention with regret the fact that there are now no co-eds at Davidson?

Two R. O. T. C. students in the aviation department at the University of Texas are planning to make their
way through school by taking passengers on air trips. The University of Georgia is now putting on a daily radio
program broadcast by WSB, the station of the Atlanta Journal, Atlanta, Ga. Speakers from various departments of the college speak
each day on various problems and situations connected with the institution.

Sigma Phi Epsilon, national social fraternity, has recently granted a charter to Delta Sigma Epsilon, a local at the University
of Alabama. The chapter will be established there this month.

The Athletic Association at Agnes Scott has been conducting a sweeping inquiry into the question of the posture of the
girls on the campus. One of the statements follows: “Out of 409 girls (walking out of class), only 62 walked
out holding their heads proudly erect and backs straight, while the other 347 drooped out in a disconsolate manner.” Well,
you don’t expect everyone to have a perfect recitation, do you?

Fifty new students were pledged to the various fraternities at Oglethorpe University last week. The Watchtower of Wesleyan and the
Cluster of Mercer are having a big verbal battle in the columns of these two papers each week. We didn’t
know girls could call boys so many names without using profanity.

The Salemite of Salem College announces the meeting of the McDowell Club Saturday night. We knew he was a good
football player, but we didn’t know that he was running for president also.

Agnes Scott College will meet Vassar in a debate to be held in Atlanta, Ga., sometime in the spring. How
about this for frankness? Headline in the Allegheny (Pa.) Campus: “Weak Allegheny Team Trounced by Pitt.”

The students at Centenary College have a musical program at the chapel period once a week. For the sake of
harmony within the family, we hope that the State Technician will not call the yelling organization at Carolina the Carolina
Cherries anymore.
