The Davidsonian

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 29, 1927 No. 3

Dick Grey Leads ‘Cats To Victory

Junior Class Proposes Radical Innovations of Junior Speaking Plans

Dissatisfaction With Existing Conditions Prompted Changes

COMMITTEES APPOINTED

Three Committees to Present Plans for Many in Junior Speaking

Junior Speaking will not be conducted this year as in the past. Action has been taken by the class which will call for a number of changes. There has been quite a bit of discussion lately as regards the advisability of the elaborate entertainment held during each Junior Speaking in the gym. Not all plans have been as yet completed, but the present Junior class proposes to substitute some other form of entertainment for that usually put on at the gym.

At the first meeting of the Junior class this year, a motion was made and passed, that Junior Speaking be held as usual. Then, at a meeting held the following morning, a motion was put before the class to the effect that the motion to have the program as usual be reconsidered, and another vote taken, after members of the class had time to think over the matter. This motion was passed, and put before the body on Friday morning. The class voted by secret ballot, and the results showed that the original vote to have the usual Junior Speaking had been defeated by an overwhelming majority. So something (Continued on page 3)

INJURED SATURDAY

Jim Grey, only hope of “Monk” Younger Jim for a ball-passed at center this year, sprained a ligament in his elbow in blocking the kick that gave the Wildcats their two points on a safety. It is feared that he may be lost to the eleven for the remainder of the year.

Worthy Successor to Faithful “Felix”, Wildcat Mascot, Found in Murphy, N.C.

Spike McGee announces that after considerable investigation he has at last found and procured a wildcat worthy to take the place of “Felix,” who recently died after seeing three years of service as D. C. mascot. The new cat was shipped last week, and was expected to arrive in time to be taken to Gastonia with the team, but due to a missed train it did not come. As to comparative worth this latest mascot is said to be superior to any other. The cat, which is half-grown, weighs 22 pounds. The fact that it is still young means that it will probably live a good, long life here at Davidson. Mr. Hayes Leatherwood, who lives at Murphy, N. C., west of Asheville, caught the animal when it was a kitten and he has raised it and trained it from that time. It is said that this wildcat has been so tamed and trained that it may be led about on a chain. “Spike” McGee promises to give it further instruction so that it may be taken to all games. After arrival at Davidson the mascot is to be first under the personal care of “Doc Charley,” who is to take care of all its needs. The actual cost of the wildcat is $25.00, and to this will be added transportation charges. The total amount of the cost will be borne by the student body, each member of which will be assessed a small sum. Former mascots of the Red and Black have cost varying sums. The last one cost $25.00 also, but the one before was $50.00. The new one, which is expected on the campus soon, is said to be a splendid cat and a good bargain. In order to establish a memorial to “Felix,” his skin is to be stuffed and mounted and placed in the trophy room together with other remembrances of the 1926 championship season.

Juniors Selected as Cheer Leaders

In the elections for the assistant cheer leaders, which were held on last Thursday in chapel, Robert Grady and Nelson Myers were elected. There were eight other men out for the positions. This is a larger number than has been out in the past three years. The other six men who were trying out for the assistantships were D. D. Wilkinson, W. K. Pritchett, John Pope, J. T. Embry, and W. H. McElwee. Grady and Myers are both experienced men. Besides having been at work constantly whenever occasion demanded, Grady at least has had the experience of being one of the cheer leaders at McCallie. It has been the custom in the past for two members of the Junior class to be chosen as the assistants to the cheer leader. This election, which is of the student body, must take place before the first game of the season. Grady is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi Social Fraternity, and Myers is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Social Fraternity. Good cheering is a vital factor in the “Spirit of the Wildcat,” for which Davidson has long been famous. And of course proper leading is the first prerequisite of good cheering. The new cheer leading staff, consisting of “Spike” McGee, the varsity cheer leader, and Grady and Myers, the assistants, showed up very well at the Citadel game last Saturday, and if the present standard is kept up this should be a very good year as regards cheering. In the spring, some time after the basketball season and before the baseball season gets well under way, the varsity cheer leader will be chosen from the two present assistants.

Construction Work for Two Remaining Sections of Chambers to Start

$11,000 Has Been Contributed Within Past Two Weeks

$22,000 NEEDED

Work Will Commence Within Fifteen Days if Funds Are Raised Immediately

According to a recent announcement made by Dr. W. J. Martin, construction of the remaining two wings of the New Chambers building will be commenced within 15 days if $22,000 more is raised. The amount will get the work of construction well started, and Dr. Martin is confident that the remaining money needed will be raised as the work progresses. Since Dr. Martin two weeks ago made known the immediate need of $40,000, friends of the college have contributed $11,000, making a total of $34,000 raised since June 1st. During the past spring there was made a most beneficent gift of $100,000 to the cause of the building. The name of the donor was withheld, however. When completed, this new building will represent a total investment of $600,000, an outlay of $200,000 more than the original plans called for. It will be one of the finest academic buildings in the South. One wing of the splendid structure has already been completed and put into use. This section contains nine executive offices, 10 offices for instructors, 21 classrooms, a book room,a faculty room, and a capacious basement. Of the two other wings that have been planned, the middle one will consist of a large and beautiful auditorium capable of seating 1,200 persons. The stage will be equipped with special modern scenic and lighting equipment, six dressing rooms, and (Continued on page 6)

Quartet Organized for Y.M.C.A. Vesper Music

Professor Cullum to Select Four Upperclassmen to Sing at Deputations and Vesper Services

Organization of a class in song leadership and a Y.M.C.A. quartet offers to the Davidson students an unusual opportunity, not only for the study and appreciation of music, but to render a distinct public service. The “Y” quartet will be a separate organization from the Glee Club quartet and any upperclassman is eligible for the quartet try-outs. The quartet is organized for the purpose of furnishing music at the Y.M.C.A. vesper services and to sing at deputations at nearby churches and schools. Practice and try-outs for the quartet will be held every Thursday evening at 7:30, in Professor Cullum’s classroom in the Eumenean Literary Society Hall. A class in song leadership was suggested (Continued on page 2)

FLORIDA RETURNS

Promptly at 3:30 p.m., on Saturday, October 1st, play-by-play returns of the Davidson-Florida game will be received and given out at the gym. You are expected to come on time. Admission, 50 cents.

The New Chambers will

BACKFIELD STAR

Mutt Nisbet

Mutt Nisbet, Davidson fullback, who clipped off several long runs against Citadel. He is a consistent line plunger and his snagging of passes in Gastonia was little less than sensational. His gains were the stepping stones to Dick Grey’s drop-kick and ultimate victory.

First Tilt Hotly Contested

Clash to N.C. Champs, 5 to 0

Wildcats Miss Big Chance on One Yard Line

GREY KICKS GOAL

Jim Grey, Davidson’s Star Center, Carried from Field With Severely Injured Arm

The fateful pedal extremity of Captain Dick Grey which has caused so many football teams to wilt away, produced once more in the opening game with the Citadel Saturday afternoon at the Gastonia High School Stadium, when the Bulldogs went down by a margin of the fatal kick and a safety. Perfect action on the part of the elements helped in making the game one of the fastest games played in this section. During the first half there was no slack in the play as the ball passed up and down the field, staying in the territory of the Citadel a large part of the time. The second half was less spectacular except for a steady march down the field by the Wildcats, which ended one yard from the goal line.

After the kick-off the Citadel got off to a quick start and handily advanced the ball into the Wildcat territory to the nervous position of the 15-yard line. It was then that Mutt Nisbet started his terrific drives which were to gain so much ground for the Davidson team during the afternoon. As the second stanza opened the Wildcats (Continued on page 8)

Cox Relates Graphic Story of Chinese Peculiarities and Customs to Students

Prominent Lawyer Addresses Y.M.C.A.

The speaker for the “Y” vesper services Sunday, September 25th, was Col. T. L. Kirkpatrick, a prominent lawyer of Charlotte and a loyal friend of Davidson. In introducing him Dr. J. W. McConnell said that much of the growth of Charlotte can be attributed to Colonel Kirkpatrick. He has held both the office of mayor and of the president of the Chamber of Commerce. He is statewide and even nationally known as a promoter of good roads. The excellent system of highways of North Carolina is partially due to him. Through his efforts the Davidson Highway, linking us with Charlotte and Statesville, was built. But despite his various public activities he has found and given much of his time to the interests of the church.

Colonel Kirkpatrick took for his text the 11th verse of the 8th chapter of Amos, “Behold, the days come, saith the Lord Jehovah, that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread or a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of Jehovah.” Colonel Kirkpatrick said that although Christ had long been awaited, prophets had for many years foretold His coming, the old patriarchs of the Jews had longed for His arrival, when He came there was no room for Him. His mother was forced to lay Him in borrowed clothes in a borrowed manger. He was crucified on a borrowed cross and buried in a borrowed tomb. There was no room for Christ at His birth, at His death, 40 years later in His church, and today the room given Him in our lives is too little. (Continued on page 8)

The talk made by Warren Cox in chapel last week was one of the most interesting that the student body has had the opportunity of hearing for some time. Warren Cox, as the student body is familiar, is a graduate of the class of 1924 and has for the last three years been supported by Davidson students as professor of chemistry in Hangchow Christian College, at Hangchow, China. While at Davidson, Warren was an honor student and an athlete and he is now entering Johns Hopkins University to continue his work in chemistry. With these facts in mind, the students heard him with genuine pleasure.

In his talk Warren placed particular emphasis on three things, and they were the customs of the Chinese students at Hangchow, the Chinese student’s outlook on life, and finally his own view of the position that he filled while in China. The first part of Warren’s talk was amusing as well as instructive, which part dealt with the manners of the Chinese. He said that the Chinese boy or girl puts on as many padded gowns as the weather makes necessary. Therefore sometimes in mid-winter the student body of the college gave the appearance of many stuffed balloons. It was while doing the setting-up exercises with all of these clothes on that the students looked most ludicrous. The Chinese have the sport of boxing, but it is nowhere near the style of the same sport in America. The Chinese boxers merely take a series of poses and do not hit each other, for if they did the one who was hit would be insulted. Therefore when Warren boxed the American way with a Chinese, the boy did not stand up very well. It was in trying to teach the boys to play American football that Warren said (Continued on page 5)