THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1927

DAVIDSON ATHLETES
(Continued from page 1)

Jennings cleared the bar in pole vaulting at 11 feet, tying for first place in the state meet and breaking
at the same time the college record of 10 feet 11 inches, held by Wooten, '06.

April 17, 1926, will always be remembered as a gala day for Davidson cinder artists, at least as far as
the breaking of records is concerned. Although the meet with Carolina was lost on this day, it was at this
time that Goodykoontz and Penn established three new college records. Goodykoontz came out first in the 100 and 220 yard
dashes, and also placed second in the 440 event. His time for this race was 2-5 of a second slower
than the present college record. Had he not got off with a bad start, his chance to break this record
would have been good.

Penn caught the breaking fever, and ran the two mile beautifully in 10 minutes 26 2-5 seconds. The following Saturday
the Wildcat trackmen entered a triangular meet with Clemson and Georgia Tech, at Clemson. In this meet Goodykoontz romped home
in the two-twenty dash in 22 seconds flat, half a second under the Davidson record, which he had set the
week before. Not to be outdone, the following week, Penn again lowered the South Carolina meet record for the two
mile by pacing the distance in 10 minutes and 25 7-10 seconds.

It was in the final contest of the year, the state meet with the squads of Carolina, Duke and State
that the fourth new track record was established. Then it was that Hamp Jennings cleared the bar at 11 feet.
This vault put him in a triple tie for first place with a Carolina and a State man. The time
of the two-mile event in this meet was slower than Penn’s earlier record, but because of a leg injury, he
was unable to turn in his usual fast time.

“Mother, mother, the churn is gone,” lecture been given him in Who's Who. Authority on Old World to Speak Monday
Night

Ellis, Noted Archaeologist and Explorer Will Lecture on Religious Subject

The arrival of Dr. William T. Ellis is joyfully anticipated by many people here at Davidson, who have either heard
him or read concerning him. Dr. Ellis occupied a high position in the U.S., having been in great demand in
past years as an archaeologist, a lecturer on religious subjects, and an authority on Old World history. His counsel has
been sought by authorities on many occasions. He has also edited the Sunday School lessons in a great many newspapers
of the South, his lessons now appearing in that of Greenville, S.C.

Dr. Ellis has spent many years of travel and study in all mission lands, and at present has just completed
a tour from Ur of the Chaldees on the east to Rome on the west. The chief object of these
travels in Egypt, Palestine, and Asia Minor has been to discover places and references which will lead to further enlightenment
of Bible history.

Dr. Ellis will preach on Sunday and Monday night at 7:30 he will lecture, with many views of Bible lands,
on the subject of Biblical Archaeology. Those who heard his commencement address at Davidson several years ago will be especially
anxious to hear him.

IT WON'T BE LONG NOW

The finest theatre in the Carolinas opens March 7th with a Picture and Vaudeville Policy

NEW CAROLINA THEATRE CHARLOTTE, N.C.

SENIOR HISTORIAN

At a meeting of the Senior Class last Tuesday morning, P. Floyd Jones was elected Class Historian. Jones was nominated
along with Don Wharton and Ronald Wilson, who were close contenders for the honor. Jones is a man of recognized
literary ability, and the Senior Class made no mistake in electing him to record their history for the past four
years. He has been actively connected with the Davidsonian since his Freshman year, and is a member of Delta Pi
Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity. He is also a member of the Reporters’ Club, and last year was selected as one
of the eight to become a Wearer of the Golden Quill. At present he is Assignment Editor of the Davidsonian,
having been Editor of last year’s staff.

The duty of the class historian, of course, is to keep a record of the past events of importance of
the class, and to write up for “Quips and Cranks.” This latter, the history of the Senior class claims that
the previous present material rewards, love, begun on,in the number of men it has contributed to campus activities and to
athletics.

DR. M. C. S. NOBLE
(Continued from page 1)

“One of the best ways,” he said, “to get experience, is to work during the summer as an assistant to
a practitioner!” “The practice of medicine yields more than material compensation, for the doctor receives the confidence and gratitude of
his patients, and these abstract compensations far surpass the material ones, bringing a world of happiness to the doctor.” “Success
is happiness,” he said, “and the practice of medicine will give you more satisfaction than you will enjoy in any
other pursuit, and you will have a lasting happiness and joy in the knowledge of work well done.”

There will be six lectures in all in the Vocational Institute and the lectures will proceed in the following order:
Teaching, Ministry, Law, Business, and Textile Engineering. The second of these was given this week by Dr. M. C. S.
Noble, connected with the State Department of Education at Raleigh, and a former professor at the University of North Carolina
and at Davidson. These lectures are given every Wednesday night in Shearer Hall. Each vocation will be treated by a
man who is thoroughly acquainted with that type of profession. The entire student body, and especially the 223 men who
are undecided as to their life work, are invited to every lecture. All the lectures are very informal and the
speaker will be glad to answer any questions about their professions just at the close of each lecture.

Immediately following the Vocational Institute, the Y. M. C. A. plans to help all students, now undecided, to choose their
life work.

WILDCAT QUINTET
(Continued from page 4)

The Wildcats had little difficulty defeating the Guilford basketeers last Thursday night, February 10th. The game was one-sided all the
way through, the Wildcats taking the lead at the start and holding their place to the end. The final score
was 65 to 27. At the end of the first half, the score was 28 to 9 in favor of
Davidson. Both teams sped up in the last half and showed better form. The visitors scored two-thirds of their points
in the second half, while the local team did more than half their scoring in this period. Neither team, however,
showed very much pep. The playing on both sides was listless, and neither team seemed to be able to get
together very well.

R. Calhoun was the high scorer for the evening, ringing up a total of 19 points during the game. Harrison
and Captain Anderson also showed up well. Harrison scored a total of 14 points. For Guilford, Captain Moore, center, was
the most effective player. The visitors centered their attack and defense around this man, and he showed some good form
during the game.

The line-up was as follows:
Guilford - Davidson
Position
Nutalesnxojn (QUI) - Pamprin (4) - F
Elm (AWD) - Griffin (4) - F
Otten (SB) - Moore (12) - C
Hartson (4) - Marshall (2) - G
Tew (2) - Substitutes: Guilford: Yelverton, Smith (3), Coble (2), Ayres. Davidson: Oshceik, McColgan (2), D. Calhoun, Crawford, McAulay (6).
Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

O. D. K. TO CONVENE
(Continued from page 1)

Dr. Lingle, of the Davidson College faculty, is also attending. Various problems are being presented to the delegates, notably that
of the extension of Circles to Technical Schools. At present, there are no Circles of O. D. K. in Agricultural
and Mechanical Colleges or institutions of that type. Today is being taken up only with a meeting of the General
Council, while tomorrow will be a busy one for the convention delegates. Mr. A. G. Williams, National President, will address
the assembly that morning, after which there will be reports of Circle delegates and appointment of committees. The afternoon session
will be turned over to the resumption of unfinished business and the reports of the National Officers. Early that evening
will be staged the initiation of newly elected members of Omicron Circle to be followed by the formal Convention Banquet.
The morning of the last day, Saturday, will be given over to committee meetings and sight-seeing trips for delegates and
visitors. At the final session, Saturday afternoon, will be heard the committee reports and remarks from the visiting brothers. At
this time, the new officers will be elected, after which the Seventh National Convention of Omicron Delta Kappa will adjourn.
To those remaining over, an opportunity to see a Southern Conference basketball game, that between the University of Virginia and
Washington and Lee University, will be offered that night.

At the last meeting of the local chapter of the American Red Cross Association, held at the Civic Club Hall,
those present were addressed by Mrs. Frye, of the National Board of the Red Cross. Mrs. Hugh Grey is visiting
her parents, Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey, from Bristol, Va.-Tenn.

VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE
WEEK FEB. 1-6
Mon., 1---The Taxi Dancer, also comedy.
Wed., 2---Richard Dix in Paradise for Two.
Thurs., 3---The Plastic Age, with Clara Bow.
Fri., 4---Corrine Griffith in The Lady in Ermine.
Sat., 5---Buck Jones in The War Horse.
Coming, “The Flaming Frontier.”

Exams Are Over
Catch up on those many letters that you owe. New die-cut and plain stationery. The prices are right.
