THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 24, 1927.

Davidson College Y.M.C.A. Works at Various Projects

The Davidson College Y.M.C.A. has been doing splendid work not only among the college students, where its need is almost
if not entirely indispensable, but also in a large number of mission projects around Davidson. This mission work has called
for a large amount of time and effort and the support which the students themselves have given to the work
has been gratifying. However, the indefatigable effort and supervision of our Y secretary, Jim Appleby, can in no wise be
overlooked.

The Y has charge of six Sunday Schools within a radius of seven miles of Davidson. This in itself is
a wonderful work and it means much for the country people near the college. Another phase of the Y mission
work is that which is being done at the Mecklenburg County convict camp, located about thirteen miles from Davidson. Regular
services are held on each Sunday of the month, except the first, for the fifty convicts, both white and colored,
that are in the camp. Leo Pritchett has personal charge of the work and he usually carries someone with him.
Transportation to and from the camp is provided by the men of the church of Davidson.

The mill village is also an important center of the Y activity. Services are held twice weekly, on Sunday and
Thursday, and regular pastoral visitations are conducted by DeWitt Helm, who is partially compensated in his work by the men
of the church. The Y.M.C.A. also assists in the boys’ club under the supervision of Jimmy Matthews and Carl Pritchett,
which has twenty active members and is doing fine work. Among the adult negroes, David Westbrook conducts a class in
personal and public sanitation. This work is supervised by John Foster.

The Hi-Y club and boy scout movements also come under the scope of the Y.M.C.A. The efforts of the Y
could not be put to better advantage than this of helping in the development of the youth around the college.

Still yet another important phase of the Y’s activity, while not consisting of any regular organized work, is that of
sending out deputations and the Y quartet to various points throughout the state. Much good is done in this way.
All of the preceding projects of the Y have been in home mission work but once each year the Y
puts on a missionary campaign to raise a thousand dollars for the support of some worthy missionary project, away from
the college. Within the state of North Carolina, the Y sends a bundle of old clothes to Crossnore where such
wonderful progress has been made in Christian work in that mountainous section of the state. As somewhat of a high
point in its mission endeavors, the Y has a missionary institute each spring, led by some outstanding missionary speaker.

The worthwhile tasks in missions to the mill chapel Sunday school, taken in all, the mill village of Davidson is
not overlooked.

STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Fresh Country Vegetables

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

FELLOWS! You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N.C.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE + THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

Miss Mitchell Feature of Glee Club Program
Greensboro College Girls Render Widely Varying MusicalSelections Misses Mitchell and Marley Impress Audience With Talented Voices

Before a small crowd, perhaps a hundred or more students and townspeople, the Greensboro College Glee Club presented a delightful
musical program in its annual appearance in Shearer Hall last Thursday night. The variety of the program, ranging from the
ridiculous “There Was a Pig,” by Grainger, to Bortniansky’s Vesper Hymn, enabled the club to present its range of talent,
and it handled each of the numbers in an excellent fashion.

There was one young lady, well known to Davidson men, who literally sang herself into the hearts of every one
of her listeners. Her name is Gwendolyn Mitchell, who has appeared for the past two seasons before a Davidson audience.
Her rendition of “All for You” and “Villanelle” caused the house to roar its approval in collegiate fashion. The richness
and melody of her singing, together with her own personal charm and attractiveness, completely captivated her listeners on more than
one occasion. In addition to her solo parts, she also appeared with Mr. Gilman Alexander in “L’Addio” and “Good-Night,” and
as the soloist in Bortniansky’s Vesper Hymn.

The entire program was under the direction of Mr. Gilman Alexander, who contributed personally two well-received numbers, “Even Bravest Hearts”
from “Faust,” and “Friend o’ Mine,” by Sanderson. Mr. Alexander's voice is a baritone. The audience liked his singing so
well it asked for an encore, but he refused.

The initial number was a group of three songs sung by the entire club. The young ladies were particularly good
in the first of these, Hosmer’s “Abou Ben Adhem and the Angel.” Two selections from “Midsummer Night’s Dream,” the “Chorus
of Fairies” and another selected song and chorus, were also presented by the group.

The sketch “The Last Tea of Tsuki” lacked the effectiveness it would have had if there could have been more
suitable scenery at the disposal of the club. However, the voices were good and the sketch was thoroughly enjoyable. As
a finale, the club sang “Somebody’s Knocking at Your Door,” an old negro spiritual adapted by Dett. The singing of
Miss Madge Marley as the soloist in this number is worthy of especial mention. Her interpretation of the spiritual was
excellent and made this number very enjoyable. As a grand finale, the house was brought wildly to its feet with
“O Davidson” sung with real enthusiasm by the glee singers.

The accompanist, Miss Audrey Bruton, was not presented to the audience during the performance, but her play was extraordinarily good
throughout the entire evening and caused favorable comment among the audience several times.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Boys, we have them--the Cold Weather Togs. Got the right ones too. In Smart Snappy Top Coats, all that’s new
and nobby. In Lumber Jacks, the Sweaters you like, got plenty of them. Fit any of you boys. Come to
see us. And Sox, we’ve more than enough. Want you to have some of them---all the Colors and Styles. Have
the fine “White Ones” too. Cold Weather Gloves. And Young Men’s Suits, the kind that wears and looks like a
real tailor-made outfit.

BELK BROTHERS CO.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

For a great deal, call us up, any kind of Snappy Ties and Gloves. Chesterfield smokers don’t change with the
song hits... but watch how other smokers are changing to Chesterfield!
