THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1927

Debating Team Off On Northern Trip to Engage Foes of Four Universities

Converse Players Give Performance

Presenting a play, entitled “You and I,” under the auspices of the Junior class, the Converse Comediennes furnished real entertainment for a Davidson audience last Tuesday night. The entire cast carried out their parts with exceptional ability and with a zest that brought a tinge of reality into the plot. Miss Wannamaker, with her sympathetic tone of voice and true acting, was the star of the performance, and coupled with Miss Mathews, the difference between them and real lovers was not easily discernible. Misses Cochran and Doss, in the role of husband and wife—Mr. and Mrs. White—pictured the trials that come to an ambitious artist and his family.

With the scene laid in the library of the Whites' country home in Mount Kisco, Westchester County, New York, in late September, White’s desires to become an artist and leave his business altogether became aroused to such a degree that his retirement from the firm was forthcoming, and Etta (Miss Fairy), who was the maid, was requested to stay in their service as a model for the great portrait. The painting was completed, and there was an imperative demand for money in order that Ricky might go abroad and study, as Ronny determined that they should not get married until her beloved was given his education. Plans for disposing of the portrait were made and met with success; Ricky and Ronny could be married, and they, with Maity, would go abroad as G. T. Warren, a friend of the family in the person of Miss Harvey, paid four thousand dollars for the work of art to use for advertising purposes. Etta and Geoffrey Nichols (Miss Black) developed a warm friendship and found that they could get along in a most amicable manner together.

This dramatic performance, under the expert direction of Mrs. Helene Powers, was the best presented here in quite a long while, and it is a deplorable fact that such an excellent organization as this was not greeted by a much larger audience. The entire program was faultless, and each individual of the cast carried out their part in a most delightful manner.

Thursday afternoon, March 31, the Davidson Varsity Debating Team, composed of L. D. Wharton and W. H. Branch, will leave for an extended trip through several states, returning to the college on Saturday, April 9. On April 1st, the team will meet the William and Mary team at Williamsburg, Va. From here, they will go to Gettysburg, Penn., where they will oppose the team of the University of Gettysburg on the fourth. Their next stop will be Bethlehem College, Bethlehem, Penn., on the fifth. The last school which the team will debate will be Rutgers University, at New Brunswick, April 7. The query for the debate is: Resolved that the United States should cancel the inter-allied war debts. Davidson's team will uphold both sides of the question; the negative against William and Mary, and the affirmative against the other three schools. While in Washington, the team will seek a conference with President Calvin Coolidge and Honorable Andrew W. Mellon, Secretary of Treasury, on this question of vital importance.

Thus far, Davidson’s debating team has had a very successful season, winning from V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Virginia, three to nothing; from George Washington University, at Davidson, three to nothing; and from John Hopkins University, at Charlotte, two to one. Branch and Wharton are both prominent men on the campus, outstanding in debating, and are also well to the forefront in the literary field. Both are members of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity; Wharton is editor of the annual and Branch the editor of The Davidsonian.

An Indian prince has his private train equipped with a huge tobacco pipe, mounted in the locomotive, from which smoke is piped to each compartment for passengers' use.

The cast follows:
Veronica Duane - Lyall Wannamaker
Roderick White - Clelia Mathewes
Nancy White - Leasel Doss
Maitland White - Frances Cochran
Etta - Julie Fairy
G. T. Warren - Louise Harvey
Geoffrey Nichols - Louise Black

Delivered same day
Lance Quality Products
LANCE PACKING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
All dealers

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Richmond, Va.

Introducing to the readers of the Davidsonian
ANGUS WILTON McLEAN
Governor of North Carolina

Governor McLean is an active member of the Board of Trustees of Union Theological Seminary and is under appointment to make the address to the graduating class at the approaching commencement.

CAROLINA THEATRE
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
5 Acts Keith Vaudeville
Every THURSDAY - FRIDAY - SATURDAY
And a Feature Picture

COMING MONDAY
Lon Chaney in “Mr. Wu”
With Renee Adoree, Ralph Forbes, Gertrude Olmstead, Louise Dresser
ALSO TWO BIG KEITH ACTS

LETTER FROM COX GIVES VIVID PICTURE OF CHINA
(Continued from page 5)

Tales that are told by the students coming back from their homes, after the passage of the Northerners, are quite illuminating. One chap in my Qualitative Chemistry escaped three times when the soldiers came and took refuge in the country. When they came to loot his place, he had two dollars on his person, which he gave to them. They were incensed at the size of the donation, and one of them hit him a terrific whack across the shoulders with the butt of his gun, and knocked him unconscious. When he awoke, he found about 40 of them systematically looting his house—for it was the largest in his town. They destroyed what they could not take away: tables were smashed, or their legs cut off; chairs knocked to pieces; bedding ripped open and the cotton used for fires; clothing torn to shreds, and the whole place made a pig-sty. His biggest loss was a collection of very valuable Chinese books that his ancestors for generations had been saving. Some were written on sheepskin and were the only copies extant of those particular works. A Japanese book collector, he says, had offered a half million dollars for the collection, but his family would not sell. The soldiers took them every one and used them to make fires. The sheepskin manuscripts they could not understand, and when he told them that it was only a book and useless, hoping to save it, they said, ‘Well, if it is useless, let's burn it,’ and they burnt the whole lot. They stayed in his house for two days and made a good job of it.

Other tales are as appalling: the killing of every man, woman, and child in a village because of a deed by one of the conscripted coolies; the violation of every woman they could lay hands on; conscription of fathers and sons to carry loads, and the treatment of them as beasts—shooting them when they were too tired to go further. Of course, some of them are exaggerated, but many are absolutely true. Is it any wonder that they turned on their oppressors when the Southern troops began to come and killed them with a merciless ferocity? Now that the Southern troops are here, the stores are open, and the people are free to go.and come as they please, unmolested. You can see the relief on the faces of the people: as one man expressed it, “Our Southern troops have come!” A simple statement, but it was with real feeling. One is reminded of how the people of Lucknow must have felt when the city was finally rescued after a terrific siege. We have heard so much of the attitude of the Canton government towards foreigners, and towards Christian schools and missions that we were rather fearful of the results on our work. We find, however, that the attitude, at the present, of the leaders of the Kuomintang, as the political party is called, is very friendly, and they have ordered that posters be put up bearing the legend, “Protect foreign life and property.” In other places where the Kuomintang has had control there has been great suffering on the part of the missionaries and foreign business men because the Left wing of the party was in control; here the Right wing has control, and we plan to carry on as usual. Many of our people are in Shanghai (ordered out by the consul); in fact, all of the women and children are there. We fear more for them under Shanghai protection now than if they were here, for the Southerners are advancing on Shanghai and will be fighting there.

Such is the “news”: it is history now. We hope that the coming of the Southern regime will continue to mean prosperity for the people, and that trade will soon be back to normal. In every great turnover there must be excesses, and statements which are meant only to stir up feeling. During the war with Germany, many statements were broadcast by our Government as propaganda which are now known to be nothing but a bunch of lies. It is necessary to inflame the people against any prevailing evil: toleration is not possible during times of national crises. There are many lies being broadcast through the Kuomintang propaganda bureau against certain so-called evils in China: they aim to weld the people together into a national unit, and to attain their end must have something to raise a hue and cry against. Foreigners come in for their share of maligning, and are probably going to have to suffer even more in the future, but we hope, and feel confident, that with the coming of a stable government in China, the excesses will cease, and that foreign activities in China will be protected.

This is probably the last letter that I shall write before I leave for the States. I shall leave the latter part of June and hope to be there about the middle of September. I am going by Europe, if my money holds out, and “see the sights.” I could not have picked any three years that would have been more filled with action and change than the years that I have been in China. There has hardly been a month that a war was not raging in some part of China, and the last few months have seen the beginnings of a campaign for the unification of China, and for the abolition of existing evils—some of them. It is China’s Revolution. Usually, we think that the revolution occurred in 1911, but compared to this, that was a mere political turnover. The people are being aroused now, and are coming to realize that they are a nation, capable of national existence.

With all best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
W. M. Cox, Jr.

Wildcat Nine Meets Lenoir-Rhyne

Here Friday afternoon the Wildcat nine will meet the team from Lenoir-Rhyne in the fourth game of the season. This game will be played on Richardson Field, and, with the exception of the game with Duke on the fourth, it will be the last appearance that the team will make on home territory before leaving for an extensive southern trip during which several strong teams will be met. The strength of the aggregation from Lenoir-Rhyne is unknown, and therefore no predictions can be made concerning the game. It is rumored, however, that they will bring a strong nine to Davidson and that there will be a hotly contested nine innings before the game ends Saturday. The Davidson team looked fairly strong in the two-game series which they divided with Oak Ridge. There was some nice fielding in both games, although the team was less able to pull together in the second contest than it had been in the first. It still appears that the pitching staff is not as strong as it should be, but Wells, Cathey, and Meadows have shown some real ability and will be of great value on the mound. The line-up for the game will be practically the same as the one used in the Elon game Tuesday.

You are Cordially Invited to a Showing of Current Events

The force of 1,500 marines now mobilizing over the country will begin the long journey to Shanghai this week to meet the request of Admiral C. S. Williams for additional men in view of the increasingly grave plight of Americans in Yangtze treaty ports.

Peace between the warring Chinese tongs—the Hip Sings and the On Leongs—was formally proclaimed on Sunday, March 27. The pact was signed at the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York after a lengthy secret conference between high officials of the two secret societies. All Chinatown rejoiced at the news.

Expenditures of the Anti-Saloon League in educational and political campaigns during the first six years of national prohibition approximated thirteen million dollars, figures made public Monday by the Senate campaign funds committee show.

Anatol Josepho, a young Russian scientist, was presented with a $1,000,000 check for rights to his recently perfected automatic camera. Josepho has been working for three years on the machine which allows the public to photograph itself.

The North Carolina Education Association, adjourning its three-day session in Raleigh Saturday, set the eight-month school terms as its chief objective for the 1929 assembly.

Final ratifications of the arbitration treaty between Sweden and Norway banning war for any cause have been exchanged between the two countries, a dispatch from Stockholm says.

The faculty of Princeton University signed a resolution endorsing the resolution of the Faculty of Political Science at Columbia University, in December, calling for a revision of the international debts.

The Supreme Court of the United States declares unconstitutional the New Orleans ordinance and two Louisiana laws requiring segregation of the races, holding that such ordinances and laws violate the Fourteenth Amendment.

You are Cordially Invited to a Showing of CLOTHING

At EU HALL on FRIDAY, APRIL 1st

Showing Selz Shoes, Adler Collegian Clothes, High Grade Haberdashery

The VOGUE Shop for Men
15 E. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
College Representative, R. B. MCQUEEN

Selby Ice Cream Co.
GOOD ICE CREAM
Statesville, N.C.

Davidson Theatre
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Friday, Saturday, April 1 and 2
Adolphe Menjou in Afraid to Love

Mon., Tues., Apr. 4 and 5
Casey at the Bat

Wed., Thurs., Apr. 6 and 7
Douglas McLean in Let It Rain

Friday, April 8
Evening Clothes

Saturday, Apr. 9
Paramount Picture