THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1927

DEBATE TRYOUTS
(Continued from page one)

Divorce and loosening of home ties should prove excellent for short snappy speeches full of facts. All members of the
squad will be notified before Christmas whether they are alternates or on a team. The exact dates of all debates
will also be known by that time. Several are pending, but it is fairly certain they will begin about March
1st and continue through May 1st. The schedule as arranged includes a southern trip on which Emory, Sewanee, and Florida
will be met, and a northern trip with Rutgers and two other colleges yet to be determined definitely, furnishing the
opposition. In addition, teams representing Rutgers, William and Mary, and Duke will invade the campus and meet Davidson on her
home territory.

All men expecting to try out are requested to see Henry Powell, Robert Grady, Frank Hall, W. K. Pritchett, or
R. L. Dumas before Thanksgiving. Any who fail to give this notification will not be allowed to take part. This
is necessary in order to determine the exact procedure of conducting the preliminary. Material on this subject will be placed
in the library in the near future. The new plan is expected to reduce materially the confusion caused by a
series of tryouts and should result in a heightened interest in Davidson debating circles.

DR. SULLIVAN TALKS
(Continued from page one)

From God led to the downfall of Israel and will surely lead to the destruction of our own land if
it is not checked. Therefore, it is entirely up to the young men of the present to prepare themselves to
check this rapid race toward disaster and to develop the characteristics that the fight will need. A balance between the
mind and body is essential, of course. After it is obtained, Dr. Sullivan gave as the necessities of the Christian
“a heroic manhood, a supreme faith in God with love for His commands, principles, and ideals, and utter and absolute
devotion to one’s fellow man.” With these characteristics in every Christian college graduate, the fight is practically won.

Dr. Sullivan also lamented the change in the home life of many. He charged everyone to work hard for a
Christian home of peace and happiness, so that its influence will not only be contained in the family but will
spread to others around. He painted a beautiful picture of a happy home, and then introduced evil, and showed the
audience the horrible change brought about by despair and dishonor. He gave as another need for the influence of the
home, the fact that extreme culture ousts religion and the fundamental teachings of Christianity must be so instilled in children
as to prevent such a happening later in their lives. The devil will not be conquered by intellect, “but by
standing manfully shoulder to shoulder for the right.” With the following words, Dr. Sullivan closed his talk: “What do we
need? We need you, in whatever vocation God may call you to, to put yourself in touch with God, not
having your own interests solely in view, but having a heart consecrated and faithful, saying, ‘Use me when and where
you will, if it costs me my life, for Christ will repay me for the wreckage I have helped avoid.’”

AT THE THEATRES
THURS., FRI., SAT.
John Gilbert IN “CAMEO KIRBY”
Taken from Booth Tarkington’s great Stage Success
ALSO “The Collegians”

IMPERIAL
MON., TUES., WED.
William Haines IN “Spring Fever”
You saw him in “Brown of Harvard,” “Slide Kelly Slide,” now he is in his knickers playing golf. Don’t miss
this.

THEATRE
Finest in the Carolinas
EVERY THURS., FRI., SAT.
MON., TUES., WED.
Added Stage Attractions and the Best of Pictures

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
November 7th and 8th, Rex Ingram’s Garden of Allah
WEDNESDAY
November 9th, Pola Negri in A Woman on Trial
THURSDAY
November 10th, Bebe Daniels in She’s a Sheik
FRIDAY
November 11th, Florence Vidor in One Woman to Another
SATURDAY
November 12th, Jack Holt in Open Range
A Zane Grey Story

“Y” Column
It is only two weeks until Dr. Vander Meulen will be here to lead the fall Lifework campaign and the
“Y” is expecting to have a great series of meetings. Have you read his book, “Getting Out of the Rough?”
It reveals a man and his very strong personality, and is extremely interesting. It is in the “Y” room at
all times for you to read and will prove well worth the time you may give it. The “Y” quartet
and the Glee Club quartet will assist in these services and will render special music at each meeting. Professor Cullum
has also agreed to aid with the music in these services.

The “Y” is starting a class in personal and public sanitation for negroes. This work is under the direct supervision
of John Foster, but the class will be taught by Westbrook. This is further evidence of the growth of valuable
work and the place it occupies in the life of people around the college.

Dr. Edgar Gammon will be the speaker at vespers this Sunday. Dr. Gammon will be remembered by many as the
most interesting man who led the services during the spring meeting last year. He is an excellent speaker and thinker
and ought to have a good audience. Dr. Wade C. Smith has definitely consented to come to Davidson and lead
the Personal Work Conference, which will probably be held in December, but if not then, immediately following Christmas. Have you
a copy of “The Testament for Fishers of Men” which Dr. Smith edited? It is a very valuable little volume
and is widely known.

MILITARY PARADE
(Continued from page one)

The return of children back home after an absence means a lot to their parents. Dr. J. M. McConnell then
was introduced and read the list of all alumni who had died during the past year. He stated that more
alumni died last year than in any recent year. Dr. J. P. Munroe, prominent physician of Charlotte and a loyal
Davidson alumnus, was the next speaker, and he used as his subject, “How Davidson played football in the old days.”
He mentioned something of the history of football and how it originated in Rome. It was played then under a
different name, and the ball was kicked up and down.the streets, never being touched with the hands. Later it was
introduced into England, but Edward III prohibited its being played because of the danger involved to the players and passers-by.
The game was further developed in England, and finally played under the name of Rugby. When football was played at
Davidson in the early '80s, the ball was kicked all of the time. A few years later the modern game
of football as we know it began to be developed, and has since been played by the Davidson teams. After
his graduation from Davidson, Dr. Munroe returned to the college and held a number of important positions, one of them
being that of freshman football coach. He also refereed most of the Davidson games and many others throughout the state
at that time. Dr. Munroe stated that the secret of the success of a football team was their being coached
and drilled until they could not make a mistake. “Davidson coaches,” he said, “are now using this method, and one
sees the results of the games.” Dr. Oren Moore, also a prominent alumnus of Davidson, now living in Charlotte, was
then introduced and spoke of “How Davidson has been playing the game this season.” Dr. Moore is very much interested
in the Davidson teams and never misses one of their games if he is anywhere near. He said that the
type of spirit and playing displayed by men on Davidson teams is that of the real athlete. “The outcome of
the game with V. M. I.” was the subject of a few words by Dr. W. T. Thompson, of Richmond,
Va., a member of the class of 1905. He stated that V. M. I. had a good team, and that
if victory came to Davidson it would be only after a hard-fought game. “The spirit of the Wildcats,” Dr. Thompson
stated, “makes a good loser as well as a good winner.” At the conclusion of these exercises, dinner was served
in the gymnasium to all of the alumni.

WILDCATS BOW BEFORE (Continued from page one)

were stopped and forced to kick. In this kicking first quarter, V. M. I. assumed the advantage and held it
through the game, always getting the punts off early for good gains. Early in the second quarter, V. M. I.
punted to Grey on his own forty-yard marker and the ball slipped through his arms, being recovered by a Cadet.
Here was the first break of the game. The Cadets took the ball here and on the first play, Hawkins
went around left end with unbelievable swiftness, side-stepping, twisting, and turning over the remaining forty yards to the goal. The
extra point was kicked from placement and 7-0 was the score. Immediately, the Wildcats got wild and started on a
great offensive thrust. Taking the ball from the kickoff, they started a drive through the line of the Cadets that
took them off their feet. Harrison, Grey, and Nesbit were clipping off nice gains and went for five first downs
in succession. Being fifteen yards from the goal line, four plays put the ball five yards from the final marker.
After three plays against the line, the ball was seven yards from over and here a pass was completed from
Grey to Harrison who failed to get over the line by less than a yard. This was the last danger
that the Cadets suffered as two attempted field goals in the first quarter failed to make the bar. The soldiers
took the ball and punted well away from their goal and the Davidson team again tried to come back but
their efforts were in vain as they attempted a pass in their own territory and the ball found its way
into the arms of a Cadet. Here they took advantage of their second chance to make a blow. On the
next play, McCray shot a long pass to Nabers who pulled it from the ozone and raced through the secondary
defense over the goal line. The play covered thirty-five yards. The kick for the extra point was blocked. But the
Wildcats fought doggedly on by the aerial mode of attack. Many of the passes were good but the Cadets had
them sufficiently covered to keep them out of the danger zone. Late in the last quarter, the Wildcats were continuing
their desperate passing attack and again the V. M. I. team intercepted one of them 37 yards from the Wildcat
goal. For the third time, the Cadets took on life when they needed it and here McCray took the ball
through the line for a first down. Nabers lessened the distance to two yards and here it looked as though
the Davidson line would hold them off but the ball was taken on the fourth down and the extra point
was good. The Davidson line was weak while in enemy territory. Jim Grey was substituted for his first entry since
the opening game and showed up well. Harrison, Dick Grey, and Nisbet were good on the offense and the latter
snagged many passes. The Cadet backfield played the greatest defensive game seen here while Munday, O’Berry, and Moss played games
in the line. The line-up and summary:

V. M. I. Position Davidson
Moss ----------------- L. E. ----------------- Arrowood
Rash ----------------- L. T. ----------------- McConnell, T.
Dibert ----------------- L. G. ----------------- McColgan
Munday (C) --------- Center --------- McConnell, R.
Hassen ----------------- R. G. ----------------- Hunt
Hewitt ----------------- R. T. ----------------- Laws
Thornhill -------------- R. E. ----------------- Wearn
Hawkins -------------- Q. B. ----------------- Wilson
Barnes ----------------- L. H. ----------------- Harrison
Nabers ----------------- R. H. ----------------- Grey (C)
McCray ----------------- F. B. ----------------- Nesbit

Score by quarters:
V. M. I. ----------------- 7 0 6 7—20
Davidson --------------- 0 0 0 0—0

Referee: Carrington (Virginia); Umpire: Hartsell (N. C. State); Head Linesman: Sampson (St. Albans); Field Judge: Brice (Auburn).

There is a vast difference in the latter term that the word “Collegian” does not imply. And there is just
that same difference between so-called college clothes and Brandeis-styled clothes for university men. You'll appreciate the difference.

$35 $40 $45
MELLON’S
Charlotte, N. C.
