8 C. E. T.C. Presents Helpful Material

Under the leadership of Carl Pritchett, the Christian Endeavor Training Class discussed “Kinds of Programs that a C. E. Should
Have” in its regular meeting in Shearer Hall last Sunday afternoon. The attendance was good and the thorough discussions of
the subjects treated afforded a great many new ideas concerning Christian Endeavor meetings. All of the various meetings that go
to make a well-organized and well-planned society were discussed in detail. Those taken up for close study were the business,
consecration, prayer meeting, and the several committee meetings. Special emphasis was placed upon the need for regular executive committee meetings,
the main reason being that in this way the activities of the society may be full of pep and handled
in the proper manner. Different ways in which to break the monotony of the regular Christian Endeavor prayer meetings were
planned, and valuable suggestions were given by many of those present. The use of the Christian Endeavor papers and publications
were suggested in the preparation of material for the meetings.

After the general discussion, application of these suggestions to the prospective deputations was made. Many of the suggestions offered in
the meeting will be tried at these deputation meetings and the results will be reported on. The class will begin
study in the near future on the book “Progressive Endeavor,” by Amos R. Wells. It is an advanced handbook for
Christian Endeavor workers to take the Endeavorer one step further than the Expert Endeavor handbook by the same author. Studies
on the subjects offered in this book are being anticipated with interest and enthusiasm, and it will occupy the class’
attention during the greater part of the fall. Inasmuch as the class is composed largely of society and union officers
and others who are interested in the development of the Christian Endeavor Union, it is believed this study will prove
most profitable.

As yet, definite announcements about the deputations for next month cannot be made. Work is going on to complete plans
for sending out representatives of the class to hold meetings in this section of the state, and details will probably
be announced within ten days. The class is anxious for as many of the new men as possible to come
and study the problems of this great young people’s organization together. Those who are interested in young people’s work in
their own churches will find many helpful suggestions and ideas in the discussions every Sunday afternoon. An open invitation is
extended to those who wish to come.

Mr. U. S. Alexander, ’15, was married to Miss Bernis Bassett, at the home of the bride, 1104 E. Boulevard,
Charlotte, on June 8th, with Dr. Clay I. Hudson, pastor of the Pritchard Memorial Baptist Church, officiating. Mr. Alexander has
been principal of the Piedmont Junior High School for several years, having received his M. A. degree at the Columbia
University summer school. He has recently been granted leave of absence of a year to attend Columbia University and complete
the work on his Ph. D. degree. Mrs. Alexander has also been a member of the Piedmont Junior High School
faculty for the past two years. They will make their home in New York City while Mr. Alexander is attending
Columbia.

Men may ride on Texas trains in their stockinged feet, with the full sanction of the railroad commission of that
state. The decision comes as a result of a petition from a woman who demanded that men be prohibited from
removing their shoes, boots or sandals while riding on trains.

Single—“Does your wife select your clothes?”
Married—“No, but she picks the pockets.”—Pathfinder.

AT THE THEATRES

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
OCTOBER 17 and 18
Norma Talmadge in “Camille.”

WEDNESDAY
October 19th, Esther Ralston in “Figures Don’t Lie”

THURSDAY
October 20th, Adolph Menjou in “A Gentleman of Paris.”

FRIDAY
October 21st, Richard Barthelmess in “The Drop Kick.”

SATURDAY
October 22nd, Jack Holt in “Nevada.”

ROXY THEATRE
Charlotte, N. C.
—PROGRAM—
Thurs. Fri., Sat.
Keith Vaudeville
Headed by Brown Derby Band
The Hottest Orchestra in the Carolinas

Next Mon., Tues., Wed.
Richard Dix in “Shanghai Bound”
A Paramount Picture

A definite date has finally been settled for Dr. Vander Meulen’s services to start the campaign on November 13th, and
continuing until November 16th. Although the meetings start on the Sunday following the Carolina game, the Y feels very fortunate
in having been able to secure Dr. Vander Meulen’s services on any date. So help make these meetings successful, and
plan to hear this prominent man of God.

Just a reference to the Older Boys’ Conference, to be held in Hickory about December 1st. Any who are interested
in leading group discussions at this Conference, and at the same time be members of a group considering High School
problems, are invited to make the necessary arrangements at once. Drop by and talk it over with Jim Appleby.

A deputation will be sent to Gastonia this week, consisting of Camper O'Neal and Allan Frew. They will speak to
young people in the churches and will be able to reach a large number of young folks in that way.
Both these men are actively engaged in Y work, and together will compose one of the most important deputations of
the year.

Have YOU lined up with a Morning Watch? There is one on your hall, and you will be repaid many
times if you but join in these short meetings that help so much in starting the day in the right
way. Think it over and meet with the group in the morning. You'll never regret it.

Charlie Paddock’s much looked-for visit will fall on the night of October 28, Friday before Homecoming Day. In view of
the activities on the following day, there will more than likely be a good number of alumni on the Hill,
and in that way a large crowd will be here to hear this famous athlete. Due to the fact that
Paddock is being brought here under the auspices of the Y and not the College Committee on Lecturers, it will
be necessary to charge 50 cents admission to hear him. It is not thought that this is a prohibitive charge,
and at the same time it will take care of all the expense incurred.

The officers of the Y were very much gratified to see the large number of fellows who heard the Hon.
O. Max Gardner on last Sunday evening. Let’s keep working on the Y vespers attendance, always holding our goal of
“600 at Y” before us. We can do it—just be there yourself and try to bring someone with you. “600
at Y”

FIVE RING CIRCUS POSITIVELY COMING

Yep, it’s really true! Meaning that a rumor heard sometime ago is now confirmed by the official announcement that the
Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Combined Shows will positively exhibit at Charlotte, Monday, October 24th. At that time the
world’s first and only five-ring circus will present its helpful material.be within easy reach of local sawdust fans. With it
will come the only genuine white elephant ever brought to America. He is “Pawah,” the world-famed sacred white pachyderm from
Burma, who will be the foremost feature of more than a thousand animals. The big show is now a third
larger than it was when it last visited this locality. Enormous new displays have been introduced such as ninety zebras,
camels, and horses performing at one time on a mammoth pedestal. On a similar series of circular raised platforms, thirty-two
of the show's forty-three elephants dance, turn, and perform in unison with the topmost of the ponderous actors twenty feet
above the ground. Prior to this gigantic display, five herds of elephants appear in the five separate rings. At another
time, the rings are given over to five companies of liberty horses. At still another juncture of the program, two
hundred of the show’s 800 horses, each ridden by an expert, are seen in the brilliant maneuvers. Of the sixteen
hundred people carried on tour this season, more than eight hundred are menagerie composed of. When the big circus exhibits
at Charlotte on Monday, October 24th, Pawah is the first of his kind to be found in more than three
hundred years and the only genuine sacred white elephant ever brought to America. He is accompanied by his supreme keeper,
Dr. S. D. Po Min, and attended by a retinue of fourteen native Burmese. The present is Pawah’s only season
in America, the Ringling Brothers being under bond to return him to Burma at the close of the tour. Pawah
is one of those rare elephants that the Buddhists of today and centuries past have worshipped in the belief that
in their huge bulk repose the soul of Buddha. And certainly, he is as different from those elephants with which
the public is familiar as day is from night. His eyes are milk white, set with sparkling pupils. His skin
is soft and pliable. His body is white as a “white man” is white. To quote the French authority, M.
Dussard, he is “as gentle as a kitten and as beautiful as a Greek statue.” This rarest of beasts was
found eight years ago in the jungles of Lower Burma, midway between Mandalay and Rangoon. Last summer, he was brought
to England under the protection of the British government and in the face of threats from the Buddhist priests who
protested that his departure from Burma would bring dire calamities. More than two million people saw Pawah when he was
presented under the auspices of the London Zoological Society. The bringing of the white elephant to America is in furtherance
of the Ringling policy of constant enlargement. The arenic portion of this season’s circus introduces five rings in place of
the usual three. The Big Show’s personnel numbers more than sixteen hundred people and nine hundred horses. A hundred double-length
railway cars are required to transport its ten thousand marvels, plus a special Pullman for Pawah and his attendants.

DAVIDSON WINS. (Continued from page 1)

Wofford then opened up their passes, which they continued all during the game, and it looked at times as though
they would be costly to the Wildcats. A long pass into the territory of the Wildcats slipped through the arms
of the anxious receiver when he had a good chance to get away. This was one of the two best
chances Wofford had to score. The Wildcats then held and it was here that Wright, of the Methodist team, began
his great kicking. He kicked well into the opponent’s territory and the ball was Davidson’s on her 20-yard line. Grey
used the same tactics and a punting duel took place, Wright having the edge. Near the end of the half,
Wofford recovered after a punt had been fumbled and had the ball on the five-yard marker of the Presbyterians, and
after two plays had failed to gain, they lost the ball by way of a miscue. In the second half,
Wofford began to look rather formidable, as Fleming, fullback, began some tearing drives that penetrated the thin muddy line, and
these, coupled with completed passes, caused the supporters of the Wildcats to assume a rather uneasy attitude. After this spurt
was when the Davidson backs began their sensational sprints. Davidson took the ball on their own 20-yard line and Nesbit,
who had been making consistent gains all through the game, took the oval and with mud flying in his wake,
went through the opposing line for 37 yards. Harrison added five yards on the next play, and again Dick Grey
went around end for another from her goal line. Grey attempted to punt, but was rushed and downed behind the
line for a safety. The remainder of the game was played on comparatively even terms near the middle of the
field. The feature of the game was the vicious offensive play of both teams and a corresponding lack of defensive
tactics. The ball weaved continuously between the two scoring zones and plenty of thrills were offered. Fleming and Wright were
the lights of the Wofford backfield, and P. Dargan played a good game in the line. Captain Grey, Nesbit, and
Harrison were the offensive guns of the Wildcat machine. Laws, at tackle, played one of the best games of his
career, with Melton, on the other side of the line, playing a great game. The line-up and summary:

Wofford. Position Davidson
Player
Arrowood
Leftwich
Melton
DeArmon
McColgan
Laws
Wearn
Wilson
Grey (C)
Harrison
Nesbit

Score by quarters:
Wofford 0 0 0 2—2
Davidson 6 0 6 0—12

Substitutions—Wofford: Crook, Williams, Austin, Kirkley, R. Dargan, G. Brown, Moseley. Davidson: Flynn, McConnell, Baker, R. McConnell, McEachern, Kell, Hunt, Matthews,
Black, Harmon. Officials: Referee, Brice (Auburn); umpire, Kirkpatrick (N. C. State); headlinesman, McIntyre (Mass.).

N. C. PRESS (Continued from page one)

and Harllee Branch, editor of The Davidsonian, best editor. The preceding year the State paper was awarded the distinction, and
the two years preceding that The Davidsonian received the honor.

O. D. K. TAGS (Continued from page 1)

been active on the campus in forensic, social, athletic, religious, and military lines. In forensic work, he has been an
alternate intercollegiate debater, a contestant for the Fresh-Soph debating medal, and a member of the Eumenean Literary Society. At present,
Camper is on the Y. M. C. A. cabinet, captain of Company “C,” a track man, and a member of
Phi Gamma Delta Social Fraternity. Pinkney J. Garrison, Jr., came to us from Covington, Ga. His life as a student
at Davidson, as his honors show, has been one of energetic and varied activities. His scholastic career is one of
forensic, journalistic, athletic, musical, and spiritual achievements. Through his superior skill as a wrestler, he has won the honor of
the captainship of this team. He is a member of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity; a member of the
“Y” Cabinet, of the Student Council, and secretary-treasurer of the Forensic Council. He has been secretary and vice-president of the
Pandenic Literary Society; president of the C. E. T. C.; Magazine staff; Quips and Cranks staff; subscription manager of The
Davidsonian; Fresh-Soph debating team; cadet captain of the R. O. T. C. Band, and member of the Junior Week Committee.
J. L. Robinson, Jr., from Covington, Ga., has risen from the rank of assistant manager of the championship football team
to the rank of manager of a potential champion team. He is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, or
Sigma Pi Epsilon, honorary physics fraternity. His popularity has been shown by receiving the responsible position of football manager. Members
of the O. D. K. who were chosen in the spring elections last year include H. M. Arrowood, president of
the student body; B. F. Martin, editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian; Charles F. McRae, President of the Y. M. C. A.;
W. O. Nesbit, president of the Athletic Association; W. R. Grey, captain of the football team; F. Caldwell Withers, president
of the Senior class; and W. L. Lingle, an outstanding leader.
