THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927

TEXAS, A GREAT STATE, AS SEEN BY A NATIVE

This is offered as a lesson in geography to all those that live in the states of ignorance and intoxication,
in order that enlightenment and deep appreciation may come to them that are not within its bounds.

Texas occupies all the North American continent with the exception of small portions set apart for the United States, Mexico,
and Canada. It is the largest state of its size in the country and acts accordingly. It owns all the
territory north of the Rio Grande, the only dusty river in the world navigable for mud cats and pedestrians, and
it produces enough hot tamales to feed the combined populations of China, Brazil, and Tasmania. It is bounded on the
north by thirty or forty states, on the east by all the oceans in the world with the exception of
the Pacific, on the west by the Pacific Ocean, the Milky Way, and the Constellatory universe, and on the south
by the Gulf of Mexico and the Amazon river.

If Texas were cut away from the rest of the United States and the Panhandle, it would float out into
the ocean because it rests upon a huge subterranean sea of fresh water and mineral oil. It is so big
the people in Laredo call those in Lubbock, Yankees, and the citizens of El Paso sneer at those of Texarkana
as being narrow-minded snobs of the far east. When one travels from El Paso to Charlotte, he is just half-way
there when he crosses the state’s eastern line.

The chief occupation of the peoples in this land of sand fleas and cactus is bronco busting; their chief source
of amusement is bull fighting; and their chief pursuit is Mexicans and jumping beans. Export figures show that their greatest
contributions to the nation’s discomfort last year were enchiladas, tarantulas, and ipecac.

Texans are so proud of Texas they can't sleep at night. To belong to the landed aristocracy your front gate
must be at least thirty miles from your front door. One native’s gate is one hundred and fifty miles from
the house, and he is thinking of moving back because the noise and dust from passing automobiles are too annoying.
Some Texas ranchers have whole mountain ranges on their property, and one boasts of forty miles of navigable river.

Texas has enough land to supply every man, woman, and child in the world with a plot nineteen by ninety
feet, and have enough left over for the armies of the world to march around its border twelve abreast, and
not come in sight of each other. If all the Texas hogs were one big hog, he would be able
to dig up the Suez canal in three roots. If all the steers were one big steer, he would stand
with his front feet in Brazil, one hind foot in the Arctic ocean, the other in Behring Straits, and brush
the mist off the Aurora Borealis with his tail. If all the alfalfa in Texas were made into one big
bale, it would reach to the Pearly Gates. (And if all the bull in Texas were one big pain, it
would take a million years to get over it!)

To Girls
To select a first-class husband: Just shut both eyes, grab hard and trust in the Lord.

Camper O’Neal and Rod McRae Elected to Hold Office for Senior Year
Prominent Members of Class Win Over Many Candidates for Minor Offices

Elections held during the last six or seven days decided that Camper O'Neal should be the Vice-President of the Senior
Class, the Class of ’27. Rod McRae was elected to the office of Secretary of this class.

The election was very close, with Kugler, Wearn, and several others having a very close fight for the place. The
other men nominated to the office to which Rod McRae was elected were Walter Lingle and Dick Carr.

Camp O'Neal is one of the most popular men in Davidson and a hard worker also. He has already placed
in several of the Track meets this year as a half miler. He is also on the Football Squad. He
is a member of the Phi Delta Theta Social Fraternity.

Rod McRae, besides having been one of the assistants of the Football Team this past year, was the Secretary and
Treasurer of the Sophomore Class. Rod is a member of the Alpha Sigma Epsilon Social Fraternity.

HANCOCK ANNOUNCES NEW ANNUAL STAFF
(Continued from page 1)

W. L. Lingle has not been on the staff of the Annual during the past year, having been occupied with
Davidsonian work, but is the retiring Managing Editor of the Davidsonian and has done other work of a similar nature.
A. I. Dillard and J. M. Murchison have both done work on the 1927 Quips and Cranks Editors. R. C.
Platt has had much experience as a photographer and is well qualified for the supervision of that end of the
Annual. G. A. Fry is entitled to the position of Art Editor by virtue of his outstanding talent along that
line.

The rising Juniors who have been chosen as Contributing Editors have all done work on the Annual this year, and
some of them have been regular workers on other campus publications as well. P. J. Garrison has accepted for the
second time the position of Chief Typist, a job which carries with it a great deal of hard work.

None of the contracts for the 1928 Quips and Cranks have been let, and it is planned at present not
to award them until after the 1927 issue is out, probably about May 10th.

Engle—“My girl’s hat blew off her head and was run over by the bus.”
Martin—“What did she do about it?”
Engle—“She put it on and wore it. All the other girls wanted one like it. They thought it was the
latest vagabond style.”

The old milk cow is step-mother to most of the babies nowadays.

Feeling that some steps should be taken to acclimate the incoming freshmen to their surroundings and acquaint them with conditions
of college life and the work which shall be required of them, Davidson College officials next year will institute an
idea that has been effectively tried at large colleges and universities, to rectify the deficiencies of the present system. Members
of the class of 1931 will be required to come to the fall opening several days prior to the usual
time, to be present at a series of courses, which will be outlined.

There is a likelihood that the annual freshmen psychological tests will be given at this time, when the minds of
the new men are free from their studies and the activities that might otherwise interfere. In this way, a more
accurate measure of their ability can be obtained by an only a hazy idea of the intricate problems.under the head
of “Orientation Week.” The name is largely self-explanatory. Prominent leaders of the student body for next year will be here
when the freshmen arrive, and several of the popular faculty members will be at Davidson to conduct a series of
meetings, the attendance at which will be obligatory. Every possible phase of college life will be discussed by the leaders,
and open forum discussions will be in vogue, giving the freshmen ample opportunity to ask questions about innumerable problems. While
the number of students who are required to withdraw from Davidson each year on account of delinquencies in classroom work
is not alarming, it is felt that the percentage is greater than it should be. Many believe that this is
due to an improper application to textbooks, and in order to alleviate the possibility of failure, courses will be given
in “How to Study.” While plans are only tentative, there is a belief that progress will be made. It has
been difficult in the past several years to find an appropriate time to give these mental tests because of the
numerous distractions that occur throughout the entire year. It has worked to the disadvantage of the freshmen, and it is
thought that a more accurate representation can be achieved by holding the examination at this time. Freshmen generally come to
college with a distorted idea as to the activities that will confront them. There are some who believe that it
is a simple matter to pass their examinations and that social life determines their standing. “Orientation Week” will obliterate any
misconceptions, and it is believed that the freshmen will profit materially by the institution of this plan. It is understood
that the faculty will be rather rigid in their requirement that the first-year men next fall come to Davidson earlier,
but what measures will be taken to accomplish this have not been disclosed. However, the authorities are looking at it
from a twofold standpoint, that of the individual and that of the college collectively, and because of the good that
will accrue from it, they are particularly determined to have every freshman avail himself of this opportunity.

Hold up! He must answer the question. And this young Apollo of the campus obeys. Grudgingly he obeys. “A devil
of a start,” thinks he. “Some Junior Speaking fire—oh yeah!” Five well-manicured digits comb nervously through his vaselined black locks.
“Well, you see, Miss Peggy, Johnny described you to me before I came down here.” More blushes on either side
and two timid, comfortable sighs. Extreme agitation writes itself high upon the firm and drum-shaped hat container from the masked
physiognomy. Even the capillose protuberance of the set upper lip quivers indignantly. Three long hours and trying has he labored
over his flawless toilet. He has shaved those manly jowls with unwonted care. The gamut has been run from Velva
to a shot of anti-hally. Peggy's baggage compartment claims five satchels, and heroically he porters them to their destination. The
girl accompanies him from the aqua trip and humbles her French heels lest they trip. The newly creased suit, treasured
lovingly upon its special hanger for this festive season, is spotless. Not the slightest dandruff fleck mars the royal blue
of a custom-built collar. Arm locking arm, two devoted souls drift airily toward the dim shadow of a huge chinaberry
tree. A golden moon bathes them with her kindly shafts. A distant owl hoots mournfully from his perch. At the
call of this bird of night, the two arms lock closer, the two hearts beat faster. Harmony, complete harmony, characterizes
the gray-trousered, blue-coated ensemble. This iridescent tie, crowning glory of a perfect attire, was chosen only after the most fastidious
examination of the “hall's” supply. Shall he accept the flapperish rebuff with gentlemanly calmness and state his errand of gallantry,
or shall he heed the promptings of his trampled pride and saunter indifferently away? “Then let this female nuisance accept
my company to the house or reject it. Makes no difference to me. I'll explain,” he decides, “I have done
my duty to Johnny.”

“I am sorry, madam,” he chirps, “but Johnny was unable to meet you and has appointed me as a greeting
committee of one. If you have no further objections, I shall escort you from the bus to the camp in
the village.” He couldn't resist this gentle dig. Gracefully the two sidle to a rest upon the inviting marble. The
red cheeks of the fair damsel deepen to a deeper crimson. She is blushing! Under the chinaberry tree, there stands
another bench, coruscating as moonbeams filter through the gently swaying tree above it. Instantly, there gleams through the rose-tinted eyes
of glowing coal. An awkward but now friendly smile steals across the cherry cupid’s bow. “Oh, I beg your pardon,
sir,” she implores. “I was only acting cautiously as mother has enjoined me. But since you are a friend of
Johnny, I know you must be a trustworthy escort. How were you able to recognize me amidst this large group
of girls?” And now Stan (for it is he) blushes with a wistful charm. How can he politely admit to
this maiden his long and ardent admiration of her picture upon the roommate Johnny’s copiously adorned desk? For all of
his buddy's sweeties, he loves this photo the best. Here she is—petite brunette with eyes of glowing coal.

Stan's brawny arm has gently encircled (for the first time) the lassie’s slim waist. Does she slap him? Does that
shapely palm crack upon the starboard cheek of the bold lover? Is there a haughty: “Unhand me, sir!”? THERE IS
NOT!!! Five seconds later, three osculations are accomplished. For “IT” has won its latest victory.

A newly married couple agreed that when one of them started an argument, the other would leave the house until
the matter could be talked over sensibly. And they attribute the long life of the husband to his outdoor life.

Prof.—“Well, what did your wife say about your staying out so late last night?”
2nd Prof.—“Wait till she gets through talking about it—and I’ll condense it and tell you.”
