THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1927

Thirty-Eight Classes Group Returning for Homecoming Day
Largest Number of Alumni in History of College

1871 ALUMNUS HERE
Alumni Luncheon Proves Big Success—Ten States Send Alumni Back to Alma Mater

“More alumni returned to Davidson for the Home-coming celebration last week than in 1926,” stated Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, in an interview with a Davidsonian reporter Monday night. “Not only did more alumni return,” he continued, “but there were men on the campus who returned for the first time in quite a while, and there were more alumni returning from longer distances than in 1926.” He revealed the information that alumni were present from the states of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Tennessee, Kentucky, Virginia, West Virginia, New York, and Texas, and stated that it was the belief of the alumni leaders that between four and five hundred former students returned.

Two new features were added this year, he said, and continued by stating that the alumni luncheon at Home-coming was an innovation and that the identification tags were used for the first time at Home-coming, although these were in effect last commencement. Members of the alumni council have stated that it is their belief that these two things will become permanent parts of the Home-coming, both of them being a convenience to alumni.

“The alumni office sent out approximately 15 class-agent letters,” said the secretary, “and this direct invitation from a class member played a part in the return of some of the men. We believe that more and more alumni will be reached through this medium, and before our next Home-coming, we are hoping to have a letter from one member of each class, and that the one in 1928 will supersede any other attempt to bring the alumni back to their alma mater.”

The alumni secretary was of the opinion that the “Wildcat Spirit” was beginning to manifest itself among Davidson alumni, citing the instance of one doctor who was up all Thursday night, and then drove 450 miles Friday and Saturday, reaching Davidson by 11 o'clock. He went on to state that another car of recent alumni left Atlanta, Ga., at 7:00 o'clock Friday night and arrived in Davidson at 6:30 the next morning, being present for all of the exercises.

“There were several other equally interesting instances, too,” he said, “and if each alumnus who attended Home-coming were to write about his trip, we would have a great account of the Davidson spirit.”

The alumni office is making an endeavor to get Davidson men to return—men who have been away for many years. Generally, a record is kept of the lapse between visits, and an exact statement can be obtained. In the rush incident to the visit of alumni to their headquarters, this was omitted somewhat, but it was seen that one man from a nearby city returned to Davidson for the first time in 18 years. He had attended a baseball game at Davidson several years ago, but had not been here for such an occasion as Home-coming and commencement. Approximately one hundred and fifty alumni registered in the office Saturday, and they represented thirty-eight classes, from 1871 and including an ex-’28 alumnus. It was the belief of the alumni secretary that an almost exact statement can be obtained if all of the alumni had registered.

“We were pleased that more alumni registered than last commencement—considerably more,” he said, in concluding the interview.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Steinway, Ivers & Pond, Parker-Gardner Co.
Furniture, Rugs, Draperies and Interior Decorations
Also and Duo-Art Reproducing Pianos
Orthophonic Victrolas and Victor Records
Brunswick Panatropes and Brunswick Records
Geo. Steck, Brambach,

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see
M. P. Crawford
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES
Rev. Marion J. Murray, '24, was married to Miss Elizabeth Hall Morton, on October 14th, at Charlottesville, Va. Rev. Mr. Murray, who graduated from the Union Theological Seminary in June, is now the assistant pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Wilmington, N. C., where Rev. and Mrs. Murray are making their home.

Mr. Reginald Lyne Price, ’24, was married to Miss Jamie Webb, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James Henry Webb, of Mobile, Ala., at the Government Street Presbyterian Church, on Saturday evening, October 21st. Mr. Price is associated with his father in the insurance business at Charlotte, N. C., where he and his bride will make their home.Their home. News has just reached here that Warren Cox, ’24, outstanding student, religious worker, and athlete during his undergraduate days at Davidson, was secretly married to Miss Rubye May Dheil, of Norfolk, Va., on September 9th. Warren was in Davidson for two days on September 21-22, en route to Johns Hopkins, where he is now enrolled as a medical student. He made no mention of his marriage at that time. Warren’s marriage to Miss Dheil was the culmination of a romance which was started in the Orient while Cox was a professor of chemistry in the Hangchow Christian College. Miss Dheil was a nurse in one of Hangchow’s largest hospitals and returned to America at the same time as Warren during the early days of August. She visited in Mobile after her return to America, and it was during her visit in Alabama that she and Cox were married. The marriage ceremony was performed in Pascagoula, Miss., and the wedding was kept a secret until news of it reached Warren’s family a short time ago. It was generally known by members of both families that Warren and Miss Dheil were engaged, but it was believed that the marriage was not to take place until after Cox had completed the year’s work at Hopkins.

M. M. Caldwell is Dead After Illness

A distinct blow to the members of the student body was the death of Milton Morris Caldwell, of Wilmington, N. C., his passing occurring October 18, 1927, after a lingering illness of several months. Morris, affectionately known as Bud, was the son of Dr. M. M. Caldwell, deceased, a former captain of Davidson’s football team and a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity while here. The son entered McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn., to finish his prep school course, at which institution he was a real leader. Entering Davidson with the class of 1929, he retired the following Christmas and finished the year at N. C. State College. While here he was a member of his father’s fraternity and a most popular and highly beloved student. A brilliant career was cut short by his call last month to the Great Beyond. Bud was an earnest, sincere type of Christian manhood, and his passing has brought sorrow to many hearts. He is survived by his mother and one sister, Margaret. The funeral was conducted at Poplar Tent Church, near Concord, N. C., Wednesday, the 19th of October, Rev. John L. Fairley, D.D., pastor of St. Andrews’ Presbyterian Church, of Wilmington, officiating. The deceased was a member of his home church. The Davidson Chapter of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity served as honorary pallbearers, while active pallbearers were Alex Shepard, John and Graham McNair, Robert Grady, Duncan McEachern, George Trask, George Shepard, and Rivers Lawther, all of Wilmington.

Alumnus Off for London to Study Bunyan’s Life

Dr. J. B. Wharey, ’92, Will Write Book on Life of Famous English Author

Dr. J. B. Wharey, '92, who for the past seven years has been a professor at the University of Texas, Austin, Texas, is now en route to London, England, where he will be on sabbatical leave for one year. Dr. Wharey has gone abroad for the expressed purpose of studying the life of Bunyan, and plans to write a book about this great writer, publishing it next year upon the occasion of Bunyan’s hundredth anniversary. Dr. Wharey finished here in the class of 1892, and went directly to Johns Hopkins University, where he obtained his Ph.D. degree, later studying at the University of Berlin. Before going to the University of Texas he was a professor at Southwestern University and at Peabody College. Dr. Wharey was at Davidson over the weekend, attending the Homecoming celebration, and while here was a guest of Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey. He left for New York Monday afternoon, and will sail from that point on November 12th. While in London his address will be care of American Express Co., Market St.

How will your office look?

TODAY in a modern office you will find these electrical aids: Addressing Machines; Dictating Machines; Adding Machines; Multigraphs; Check-writers; Calculating Machines; Cash Registers; Interior Telephones; Card Recorders; Card Machines; Typewriters; electric devices. This familiar mark appears on many electrical products, including motors that drive time- and labor-saving office machines.

GENERAL ELECTRIC

Not like this, of course

Yet you will find in it a dozen jobs that can be done more quickly and effectively by electricity—and done so quietly as to be practically unnoticed. In fact, electricity has completely revolutionized many office methods.

Your father probably will recall the days of high stools, eyeshades, and evenings of overtime. But visit a modern office! A thousand letters to go out by four o'clock. A new price list to all customers in tonight’s mail, without fail. Enter electricity. Two or three people turn switches, and the finished letters come out of an ingenious machine. Another motion and they are sealed and stamped. Only electricity could get that job done.

Here’s a statistical job. The reports are in; thousands of figures to analyze. Looks like overtime for fifty clerks. “Certainly not,” answers electricity, as a button starts the motor-driven sorters and tabulators. Key cards are punched with lightning fingers. Electric sorters devour 24,000 cards an hour. Tabulators add quantities and amounts in jig time, and print the totals.

Go to almost any bank today. Hand in your account book. Click, click, click, goes the electric bookkeeping machine and back comes the book to you. Five operations performed in that brief moment. Everybody saves time—you, the clerk, the bank—when electricity is the bookkeeper.

In the office of tomorrow you will find “electrical fingers” doing more work than even today.