THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1927

First married man—“Who are you working for?”
Second married man—“Same people—wife and children.”

I lost my canary yesterday,
I flutter soon I heard:
He flew out of my ink bottle,
Bye-bye black bird.

Our prize dumbbell for the week is Fresh DeArmon. He thinks bacteria is the rear entrance to a cafeteria.

Collegiate Evolution
Freshman—“All that I am I owe to my mother.”
Senior—“All that I owe is paid by my father.”

“Tis better to give than to receive,” said the nurse as she poured out the castor oil for her patient.

Teacher in Geography class—“Now Mr. Lincoln, what is a tame, a cultivated grain? Can you name some grains that grow
wild?”
Lincoln—“Well there’s er—wild oats, sir.”

1st Prof.—“My wife explored my pockets last night.”
2nd Prof.—“What did she get?”
1st Prof.—“About the same as any other explorer, enough material for a lecture.”

Bud Guthery tells us that women and street cars are just alike; there'll always be another one along, and if
you wait long enough the same one will be coming back.

Sign on Library Wall
“Some people come here to sit and think, but I come to meditate and ponder.”

Dock Henderson—“Doctor, my girl has a slight impediment in her speech. Can't you suggest some cure?”
Doctor—“Well, when is it most noticeable?”
Henderson—“She can't say yes.”

Fresh—“Did you know Sam Belk had to go to the infirmary this morning?”
Soph—“What’s the matter?”
Fresh—“The doctor said he'd be all right before long. His mustache has just sapped all his strength.”

Student golfer—“What are you doing out on the green this early?”
Prof. Golfer—“Oh, I just came out to putt.”

Personified
It doesn’t take a crazy person to play golf, but it helps.

A light-headed cook who likes to spoon can be expected to stir up things in any home.

Riled Prof.—“You're worrying me to death. I’m already wandering in my mind.”
Riled wife—“That’s all right, you won’t go far.”

Fresh Peterson writes home to his high school sweetheart: “Light of my life, I’ve struck another match.”

The friends of L. D. Wharton, promising novelist and playwright, realizing that this is his last year as a student,
wish to suggest a nom de plume for future use in his literary career. They have unanimously agreed upon “Guatemala.”

Not Whiz Bang
Short—“Well did you visit the National Museum of Art while you were in Washington?”
Garrison—“Yeah, the pictures were all right but there wasn’t any funny writing under them.”

Little Johnnie—“Mother, tell me a fairy tale.”
Mother—“Just wait till old comes home and he will tell us both one.”

First Co-ed—“I’m so mad at Bill I could turn my head and never look at him again. He knows so
many naughty songs.”
Second same—“And does he sing them where you can hear him?”
First Co-ed—“No, the mean thing. He just whistles the tunes.”

Billy Long—“What are these coupons for?”
Cigar salesman—“If you get two thousand of those coupons we will give you a piano.”
Billy Long—“If I smoked two thousand cigars I’d need a harp instead of a piano.”

She—“What would you give to have such pretty blonde locks as mine?”
Wilkerson—“I don't know. What did you give?”

She—“Oh, I feel so flattered! Ronald dear told me that I reminded him of a girl on a magazine cover.”
Mother—“Don't misunderstand him. He means that he sees you once a month.”Genius might do well to introduce a slicker with
extra backs, so that the wearer might display a new set of pictures every time it rains.

The stenographer's oath, “By gum.”

Safety First

Compassionate mother—“Why are you beating Willie like that, father? What has he done now?”
Father—“Nothing, but you see he brings home his report tomorrow, I have to leave before breakfast in the morning.”

Bradley—“And so you're going with a sailor, are you? Don't you know that they have girls in every port?”
She—“Well that’s no worse than you college boys. You have girls on every davenport.”

One of our graduates of last year's fame, when asked what chair he was occupying at the prep school where
he was teaching, replied, “Chair nothing, why I’m holding down a whole settee.”

Doctor—“What you need is an electric bath.”
A. N. Brown—“No, sir, not me. I knew a man who got drowned in one of those things at Sing
Sing.”

Teacher—“What was the Tower of Babel?”
John Currie—“I think it was the place where Solomon kept his five hundred wives.”

We'll now be dismissed by singing that familiar anthem, “They called him tonsillitis because he was a pain in the
neck.”

FRESHMAN CAPTAIN

Captain for the Freshman basketball team, C. R. Pritchett was chosen to lead the Wildkittens this season. Pritchett, who hails
from Reidsville, played on the team that won the state high school championship three years ago. Stationed at forward, he
is one of the best shots and one of the most versatile men on the team. At the Wake Forest
game which the Wildkittens won by a score of 43-29, Pritchett was high scorer for both teams with 18 points
to his credit. The Freshmen have won both of their games thus far and indications are that they will have
a most successful season.

Long—“If I smoke that many...”

[Meeting a train in the Union station]

You are an experienced smoker and you know your brand! YOU’RE an experienced smoker. You know good tobaccos. You know
taste and fragrance. And you insist on the best — that’s Camels. Only the primest tobaccos grown are good enough
for you—the experienced smoker. Whatever you do you are going to do right, if you know it. If Camels weren’t
the best, they would not be far and away the first. If Camels weren’t quality supreme, they would not be
the overwhelming preference of smokers who have tried every brand. Your taste tells you the tobacco difference in cigarettes and
you’re going to smoke the best. Your advice to others is — “Have a Camel!”

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C. © 1927

THE BEST PLACE TO EAT
Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE
15 E. Trade St.

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS
Srlz Shoes, Adler Collegian Clothes
Complete line of High-Grade Haberdashery
THE SHOP FOR MEN
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Campus Representative, R. B. McQUEEN

At the meeting last Wednesday to elect a...

Yield to this Treatment:
Redden chest with hot wet towels; rub on thickly...

FELLOWS
You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

OVER 21 MILLION JARS USED YEARLY

CREDENZA, $300.00
VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
