The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
BOYCE MARTIN

Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD

EDITORIAL STAFF
A. N. BROWN - Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT - Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY - Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE - Athletic Editor
W. L. - Associate Editor
F. C. - Associate Editor
T. T. JON - Associate Editor
L. C. - Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY - Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY - Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON - Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL - Assistant Business Manager
P. J. GARRISON - Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON - Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS - Solicitor
W. B. McGUIR - Solicitor
E. H. McCALL - Solicitor
W. H. BAILEY - President
L. ELY - Vice-President
R. GRAHAM - Secretary-Treasurer
D. P. ANDERSON
R. W. McDERMID
W. H. BEST
W. B. McQUEEN
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D. MILLER
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. PRA’
R. F. JARRATT
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LONG
W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

THE EXPERIMENTAL COLLEGE

Leading educators over the country are noting with interest the progress of Dr. Alexander Meiklejohn, former president of Amherst, and
the Experimental College of which he is now head at the University of Wisconsin. The trend of education in future
years will in all probability be determined by the success or failure of this new experiment.

In this venture, Dr. Meiklejohn is breaking away from all past tradition and custom as to the direction of an
institution and the content of its curriculum. The idea is novel in that it is actually being carried out this
year, while in previous years it had been studied only theoretically. Learning in the Experimental College is entirely informal. In
the conventional sense, there is very little classroom and lecturing work being done. There is no formal meeting of a
class, in which the students are prepared to recite, or attempt to take doses of education in erudite pills. The
professor is a co-worker, aiding the students in solving problems by his specialized knowledge of the subject being treated. The
classes are discussion groups, the instructor and pupils studying the problems together.

In regard to the policy of the school, Dr. Glenn Frank, president of the University of Wisconsin says, “The course
of study will rest upon the principle of a study of situations rather than a study of subjects.” Instead of
taking various courses on obviously unrelated subjects, the students will take episodes of civilization and study the fundamental reasons for
the cause of such situations and the effect of these episodes upon the progress of the world. The freshman year
will be devoted to studying the civilization of the Athenians. During the sophomore year, the modern period will be studied.
Thus, the non-scientific and scientific ages and periods will be contrasted and compared. After these two years, the student will
be allowed to enter the School of Letters and Science as juniors to follow their respective courses.

The result of this experiment in education is awaited with interest, particularly at present when so much criticism of the
present university system in America is flying about the heads of the powers that be. Naturally, Dr. Meiklejohn is strongly
in favor of the small college such as he is conducting. He insists that “group living” and “group teaching” are
the best aids to a proper education. Dr. W. L. Whittlesey, professor of politics at Princeton, is strongly opposed to
the present system of education. He complains that the present tendency of colleges is to turn out a uniform type
of mind, the student being unable to do individual thinking and personal investigation such as the freshmen at the Experimental
College. Dr. Whittlesey says that the whole emphasis of modern higher education places a premium on memory and glibness. He
remarks that Jefferson, Lincoln, or Franklin would not be able to graduate from any institution under the present bonds of
curriculum and discipline.

The tendency of universities and colleges to turn out uniform men is deplored not only by Dr. Whittlesey but by
other men well known in the educational world. The trend of thought seems to be swinging slightly, however, and this
is noted by the tendency of a number of colleges to develop personnel work, to have counselors from the faculty
for every man attending the institution. This is turning away from the information-cramming process which has been so in evidence
the last few years, turning to the college as a stimulus and a selective for the students registered there.

In a confidential letter to Mr. A. W. Atwood, a university dean says that the “greatest challenge presented to our
schools and colleges for the next twenty years will be a better method of advising students in regard to their
careers. The present method,” he says, “is most inaccurate and a cause of humiliation to those of us who give
advice.” Recognition of this fact has been made here at Davidson and last year for the first time the Y.
M. C. A. conducted a Vocational Guidance Institute. This was for the benefit of the students in helping them to
plan their life work. Leaders in various professions were brought here and spoke to the students on various points of
their respective vocations. There is a danger that instruction might possibly become vocational rather than cultural if too much emphasis
be placed on a student’s life work before he has obtained a rather general education. In regard to this view,
however, Dr. L. B. Hopkins, president of Wabash College, says that this fear is unfounded as long as methods of
instruction and content of curriculum are in the hands of the faculties.

And again there is the age-old problem of the brilliant, fast-working student and the dull, plodding student. When both are
in the same class, it makes a peculiar situation not only for the professor but for the students. In theory,
it would seem that Dr. Meiklejohn’s experiment regarding this is the best solution. But whether this will work out in
practice remains to be seen as his Experimental College rounds out the year. The report of this institution will be
of great interest to all educators, from various points of view. The answers to all the criticisms of modern colleges
will be given as soon as the first class at this college has passed through the elementary stages of a
college education. The report will not be complete until these students have finished their education, but many interesting reports and
observations will be made within the next few months.

THE VALUE OF A PARENT

The material value of a parent seems to be decreasing rapidly in this day of prosperity and progress, particularly in
the educational world. There seems to be little chance for the parent to assert any authority or forward any opinion
as to his child’s welfare in this day of “nurses,” “play instructors,” “matrons,” “advisors” and other officials in the educational
system. The trend today seems to be to place the child outside the authority and jurisdiction of the parents, asserting
that the educational officials can judge the child and advise him more capably and efficiently than the parents.

The latest statement on this subject of diminishing authority of the parent has been made by Dean Gauss, of Princeton.
The venerable dean suggests that the matter of deciding whether or not a son should go to college be taken
completely out of the hands of the parents. He insists that this be put in the hands of the high
school principal, since he knows the boy’s capabilities better and from an impartial viewpoint than do the parents. If the
school officials have gone into the case thoroughly, investigated grades, ingenuity, ambition, etc., of the lad in question and have
decided that he should go to college, he will go; if they reach the conclusion that he is not material
for a college or university, he will not go.

The Boston Post commenting editorially on the suggestion of Dean Gauss says that if this amazing suggestion is carried out
“seemingly the last vestige of authority over a boy’s future” will be taken away from his parents and “put in
the hands of outsiders.” Everyone admits that all parents are naturally prejudiced in judging their children, it would not be
human to be otherwise. And to attempt to judge the history of a boy in high school and predict his
career in college would leave one’s opinion open to much criticism. The two places of learning are so vastly different,
the environment and method of instruction of each varies considerably and it would be taking a great task upon oneself
to attempt to say that this...

That the present system of rushing employed by the fraternities in obtaining new men is not in accord with the
traditions and standards of Davidson College is the consensus of opinion of various men on the campus. The situation here
now is the same in general as that of former years, and as a whole has been subjected to severe
criticism from various individuals. Until now no public statement has been made.but it has been understood by many that some
radical change should take place. Under present conditions, a fraternity must rush a man for practically two months. It seems
to be necessary that each man in the chapter of the fraternity must know this man, have dates with him,
carry him somewhere, entertain him, and keep this up for eight weeks or more. The first great criticism of the
present system is the vast amount of time which of necessity must be spent with the freshman. Not only is
it burdensome on the fraternity man but more so on the freshman. Some freshmen are fortunate in having various friends
over the country who have recommended them to several fraternities which have chapters here at Davidson. With two or three
fraternities rushing a new man, it is absolutely impossible for him to call a minute of his time his own.
And vice-versa with the man in an active chapter. He has fifteen or twenty freshmen who have been recommended to
his chapter and it is his duty to see all of these men, entertain them, and do all he can
for his chapter in this business of rushing. His time therefore is also filled up for two months. Another criticism
is the amount of money spent on the freshmen by the various men in the chapters. The Pan-Hellenic Council very
wisely controls the number of functions at which a chapter may entertain the freshmen. But the larger percentage of expenditures
is left entirely uncontrolled. An individual may spend as much as he wants to on a freshman, and the result
is that he usually spends much more than he can afford. And mind you, this is allowed to continue for
two months. Naturally, the freshman enjoys this very much, but he should remember that for the one year in which
he is the recipient of all these favors, he must contribute actively for the three years he is an upperclassman
provided he is given a bid by some fraternity. The present conditions also give rise to numerous embarrassing situations. A
fraternity will rush a freshman for, say, a month and a half and as Bid Day approaches discover that when
the box is passed on the man, that he cannot be given a bid. Imagine the feelings of a man
when he discovers that a group of men that he has learned to know and very probably like very much
does not wish to have him become a member of their organization. This is all the more emphasized when he
has been entertained by them for a month or so. And this also works the other way. A fraternity rushes
a man for two months and then discovers that he prefers to join another group. Out of mere politeness, the
freshman has accepted the fraternity’s invitations but discovers that he likes another organization better. The “cut-throat” rushing which is in
force at various institutions would not be a success at Davidson and we are not advocating this system. However, it
is apparent that some other plan should be employed at Davidson than the one which is being used at present.
Any plan would receive criticism from someone since it is practically impossible to formulate a plan which would meet with
the unanimous approval of four or five hundred men. But it is certain that some plan could be suggested which
would meet with much less dissension and criticism than the one which is being used at present. The plan which
we would like to advocate would take in some of the good points, as we see them, of the present
system and yet eliminate some of the objectionable features. This plan would involve having closed rushing for some period of
time in order that there would not be such an enormous drainage of time and expense on the men in
the fraternities. This also would eliminate the force of some of the embarrassing situations enumerated above. Naturally, there would be
a specific time before Bid Day in which the fraternities may entertain the freshmen. This is quite necessary in order
that the fraternity may be grouped together as a whole to meet and entertain all of the men they are
considering. Under this system, the fraternities as a whole would not be allowed to establish contact with the freshmen for
a period of two or three weeks. After this period, there would be a definite period of time during which
the fraternities might entertain their prospective members. After this, there would be a period of silence for a day or
so in order that the freshman, after knowing which organizations want him as a member, might consider the relative merits
of the various groups and decide with which he will cast his lot. During the first two or three weeks,
the individuals in the fraternity would not be permitted to spend money on the new men, would not be allowed
to take them away from the Hill on trips, and other necessary regulations of this type. This in general would
eliminate the present faults of allowing the fraternities to spend too much money and time on the freshmen. Under this
plan, Bid Day would be moved up three or four weeks before the present time. In a small school such
as Davidson, a man may grow to know the various groups rather intimately in three weeks and it seems foolish
in some respects to extend this time to eight weeks. Naturally, such a system has its faults, such as human
inability to oversee every fraternity man and see that he is complying with the rules. Many will argue that it
will not allow either the fraternity or freshmen time enough to make their proper choice. They will also argue that
under the present system the fraternity does not spend too much money or time on the new men. From present
appearances, however, it would seem that these men would be in the minority. At present, the college does not allow
new men to be pledged until after October 20th, the Pan-Hellenic setting Bid Day this year as November 1st. The
college set October 20th as the earliest possible time that reports could be given out as to the scholastic standing
of the new men. They believe, and correctly too, that a man should not be pledged until it is seen
that he is capable of fulfilling the scholastic requirements of the college. It seems, however, that the men would be
able to do much better work were rushing season cut shorter and that they may be in active contact with
older men who will have an interest in them and be able to help them and encourage them. The college
could have restrictions on men as far as initiation is concerned but allow the men to be pledged earlier. It
is believed that under this new system the freshmen would make better records scholastically since they will be able to
devote themselves to studying rather than spending the first two months of their college career being entertained and rushed, taking
valuable time away from their studies. It is certain in the minds of some men that the present system is
not the best, and that some radical change must take place. Whether the above suggestions are accepted is immaterial, but
that some definite change must take place is strikingly evident.

“We see by the papers” that scientists in Chicago have agreed that an average man can exert 50 percent more
muscular energy when gazing upon a saturated red than when confronting soothing blue. This may be all very true but
it hasn’t worked here at Davidson, or else our football team is much more powerful than we think it is.
Citadel had on blue jerseys, Carolina and Duke wore blue last year. Anyway, it’ll be a good alibi if they
beat us this year. The Mercer Cluster gave us a dirty dig in its exchange columns last week. We might
tell the extremely erudite author of the column that it’s an excellent idea to have freshies at the games ahead
of upperclassmen, they've quit wearing nameplates, and none of them carry matches anyway. Pin that posy on your “cluster.” Three
down—six to go. Fight ’em, Cats! We are beginning to wonder how the men at Wofford are answering to the
roll call in the classroom now? The Cornell Daily Sun, having found a tradition on its campus costly, cumbersome, and
silly, proceeded to try knocking it out. Junior Week was its name, and its effect hollow-eyed, and expensive. The duty
imposed by this week was that of riotous enjoyment for three full days and nights, so it appears; for, as
the Alumni News remarked, these eighty hours of jazz presented the severest test of many endurance.

The name Sing Sing comes from the Sin-Sinck Indians, original inhabitants of the region in which the prison now stands.
