THE VOGUE

Husband: One more payment, and the furniture is ours.
Wife: Good. Then we can throw it out and get some new stuff.
—Penn. State Froth.

Salesman: Let me demonstrate this vacuum cleaner to you.
Mrs. Coveloski: I don’t want it; I ain’t got no vacuums in the house.
—Colgate Banter.

First Male: In the home.
Second Male: Sir, a woman’s place is in the channel.
—Denison Flamingo.

There is a little college in the Middle West where all of the students have just killed themselves. Possibly the
faculty had just passed a ruling prohibiting suicide.
—Cornell Widow.

Solomon: I beg your pardon, but haven’t we met before?
No. 639: Yes, darling; we were married a little over three months ago.
—Cannon Bawl.

She: Who wins in a chess game?
He: The one who lives the longest.
—Pennsylvania Punch Bowl.

ANOTHER COLLEGE ROMANCE

The girl dabbed at her eyes with a handkerchief. “Oh!” she cried, “I think he’s the meanest thing. Suicide is
so common I won’t get any publicity at all.”
—Pennsylvania Punch Bowl.

“Yes, Jeremiah, Alice said that last night she dreamed she was dancing with you—”
“You thrill me all to pieces, Hezekiah.”
“—and then she woke up to find her kid brother pounding her feet with a flatiron.”
—Ohio State Sun Dial.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 15, 1927

THE ETERNAL FEMININE

FROM A SIGN IN A CEMETERY AFTER MOTOR ACCIDENT

Hubby (feeling his mug): My face is so cut up it isn’t even funny.
Wife: Yeah? Ordinarily it’s quite funny.
—Yellow Crab.

No, my boy, we can’t all be Lindberghs—just think what a mess the telephone directory would be!
—Black & Blue Jay.

“You don’t see as many intoxicated people on the street since prohibition.”
“The stuff kills them before they get out of the door.”
—Cornell Widow.

“If a man smashed a clock, could he be convicted of killing time?”
“Not if the clock struck first.”
—Wet Hen.

Why didn’t you answer me?
Boy: I did shake my head.
Girl: Well, I couldn’t hear it rattle over here.
—N. Y. State Lion.

A good way to kill fleas is to swallow a teaspoonful of carbolic acid, run around the block, and the
perspiration will kill the fleas.
—U. of S. Calif. Wampus.

We wonder if the raisins rust in Venice.
—Purple Pel.

“Gertrude Ederle is suing her business manager.”
“Ah, I see, a swimming suit.”
—Minn. Ski-U-Mah.

“In one Italian city the people go swimming without anything on.”
“Is that Nice?”
—Pitt Panther.

“Napoleon was right when he said an army fights on its stomach,” muttered a soldier, as he crawled through the
mud in No Man’s Land.
—Pennsylvania Punch Bowl.

“Do you like conceited men best, or the other kind?”
“What other kind?”
—Tawney Kat.

First Student of Nature: What shape is a kiss?
Second Fool: It’s a-lip-tickle.
—Michigan Gargoyle.

The eternal feminine: What did she wear?
—Minn. Ski-U-Mah.

Two inebriated sailors were arrested in New York for stealing a scale. Theyclaimed they were told to weigh the anchor.
—Williams Purple Cow.

Liz: Where did you get the rouge, kid? Let me use it.
Sal: Oh, Henry gave it to me.
Liz: Well, bless his heart, wasn’t that just too sweet! What kind is it? I wonder where he got it.
Sal: Oh, he found it on the floor when he took Dot to the show last night. —Denison Flamingo.

(A Little George, the garage mascot, was visiting his aunt. He found the cat in a sunny window purring cheerfully.
“Oh, Auntie, come quick,” said little George, “the cat has gone to sleep and left his engine running.” —Annapolis Log.

What is a boob spelled backwards? —Williams Purple Cow.

“What, Cleopatra, you are not weary of being Egypt’s Queen, are you?”
“Weary! Don’t asp!” —Cornell Widow.

picking flowers from any but their own graves, —Colby White Mule.

He: I was in a jam last night.
She: Tell me about it, but don’t spread it on too thick. —Yellow Crab.

Uneasy is the tooth that wears the crown. —Notre Dame Juggler.

“Tell, Nicolai, why you not marry with Maria Stanislauskaskinivanovitch?”
“Well, Petroushka, to be frank, it took too long to introduce her to my friends.” —C. C. N. Y. Mercury.

The teacher has asked Jimmy to name all the flowers he could think of. After some thought he replied: “Wild,
tame and collie is all I know of, teacher.” —Tawney Kat.

The Scotchman who offered a prize to the first person to swim the Atlantic has recently announced that the winner
must swim the distance under water. —Carnegie Puppet.

“Why don't you want to go out with that dame? She's the keenest one in town.”
“Yes, but look at the town.” —Minn. Ski-U-Mah.

TOO EFFEMINATE
Kappa: Gimme a cigarette.
Sigma: Whadda ya think this is? A girls’ school? —Webfoot.

“No, If in need of any Oxfords, Shoes, Shirts, Neckwear, Suits or a nice Top Coat: come in; we can
supply your wants
THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO,
5th Door from Bank

“Sabook.”
“Wassanimvitt?”

“Do you care for horses?”
“I wait on tables.” —Westminstrel.

“Watchagotna packidge?”
“Sadickshunery, fulla naims.
‘na getta plecedog angottagettanaimferim.”

“I just read Jones’ works.”
“That’s funny; he never did that before.” —Annapolis Log.

The proposed equipment New York stage censor will require is a nose for phews. —U. of S. Calif. Wampus.

CREDENZA, $300.00
The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
EVERY FRIDAY
213 N. Tryon St.
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

NEW RECORDS
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
Charlotte, N. C.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Maxwell Chambers Hotel.
“The best board on the Hill”
A trial is all we ask
Student managers
D. A. CURRIE
J. W. MELTON

Wishing All the Boys a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year
WHITE DRUG CO.
