4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source
will not be published.

EDITORIAL STAFF
BOYCE MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY Managing Editor
C. R. HARRIS Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS Associate Editor
D. H. ARNOLD Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH Alumni Editor
R. G. NORRIS Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
M. S. ABERNETHY Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON Assistant Business Manager
W. J. GARRISON Assistant Business Manager
P. M. GARRISON Subscription Manager
B. F. WILLIAMS Circulation Manager
S. S. WILLIAMS Solicitor
W. E. WILLIAMS Solicitor
E. F. WILLIAMS Solicitor
J. V. WILLIAMS Solicitor

Reporters’ Club
W. H. BAILEY President
J. W. GRAHAM Vice-President
R. P. ANDERSON Secretary-Treasurer
R. P. McBRYDE
W. H. BEST
W. McDERMID
E. T. EDELMAN
R. P. McKNIGHT
M. T. GILMORE
R. B. McQUEEN
A. N. HALVERSTADT
W. A. MITCHELL
E. S. HEEFNER
D. K. MILLER
M. K. HENDERSON
V. A. MILTON
R. F. JARRATT
C. M. PRATT
F. W. JOHNSTON
D. T. STOKES
R. R. KANE
W. R. TREVERTON
R. W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

A NEW PRIVILEGE

The Senior Class has recently presented a petition to the Executive Committee requesting that the class be allowed the privilege
of attending church in any community on Sundays. This movement has been agitated for the past few years but has
had no definite form until the past few days. The senior class believes that it will be beneficial to the
college and the senior class in a number of respects. It is an added privilege to the senior class, but
it will likewise lessen the congestion and crowding which is visible at times at the local church under present conditions.
With the largest combined junior and senior classes in the history of the institution, with the underclassmen trailing not so
far behind in numbers, there has come a time when some definite step must be taken. Either the enlarging of
the present church or the granting of the petition which is at present before the committee.

Naturally, there would be a few disadvantages if the petition were granted. Possibly it would encourage the seniors to leave
the Hill on weekends more than they have been doing. It is possible that the seniors would lose contact with
the local church by being allowed the privilege of attending elsewhere. But in the opinion of many, the advantages far
outweigh the disadvantages. There would be the distinct privilege of hearing a number of noted ministers who hold pastorates in
the vicinity of Davidson. Under the proposed plan, the seniors would be allowed to hear such men as Dr. Myers,
of Greensboro; Dr. Johnson and Dr. McGeachy, of Charlotte; Dr. Raynal, of Statesville, and various other speakers and ministers of
noted ability. As is the case in every privilege, there would be some who would attempt to take advantage of
it, but this number would be vastly in the minority. By the time men have spent three years at Davidson,
they will have had time to see clearly the fallacy of attempting to get around regulations imposed on the student
body and would cooperate with the faculty in this new privilege. All in all, it would be a distinct advantage
and forward step for all concerned if this petition is granted.

We hear that McAdoo has also said that “he did not choose to run in 1928,” but what we would
like to know is who asked him in the first place?

By this time the radiator ticket and chapel seat salesmen have about completed their campaign and can rest for another
year.

FRESH PARADES

Various members of the student body and the college community have been brewing for a number of years the trouble
which finally reached a crisis last Friday night. This was the uncontrolled fresh parade after a pep meeting. It is
extremely unfortunate that people outside of the college were made the unfortunate victims of an unpremeditated action of the students.
Pep meetings are extremely valuable to the student body and particularly to the freshmen when they are controlled. But it
is the action of the students after the pep meeting was over that has come in for its share of
criticism for the past few years. It is natural that upperclassmen, being deprived of hazing, should break over at times,
but this is no excuse for the action last Friday night. The students should have realized that the state highway
is not their property and that there are people passing who are unfamiliar with the vicinity and have not the
faintest idea that they are passing through a college town. When such people are confronted with a howling mob surrounding
their car, it is only natural that they should attempt to get away as soon as possible. It is indeed
remarkable that some of the students have not been injured before now while filling the street in the midst of
a parade. Although the circumstances were a little different Friday night with those concerned residing in the town, this is
no excuse for the action of those men who surrounded the car. The student body is to be congratulated on
the action it took Monday morning on the matter. At a time when they were able to think more clearly
and saner, the affair was regretted and steps taken to ensure the fact that it would not happen again. With
the new plan of having the bonfire on the fresh field after the pep meeting, the same general purpose can
be accomplished without having the entire student body filling the highway. It is quite necessary, however, that each student cooperate
in the new plan and see personally that it is a success. It is only by this that the plan
will succeed. By this, the name of Davidson will be cleared and remain clear of any such occurrences as came
to pass last Friday night.

JUST A TIP

To the sophomore class and a few of the other upperclassmen, a gentle hint and reminder at this time will
save a great deal of trouble and inconvenience at a later date. And this tip is concerning hazing. Every year
there are one or two upperclassmen who forget that hazing has been abolished at Davidson and later repay with regret
their lapse of memory. So far this year, there does not seem to have been any of this on the
campus, but this does not mean that it is not likely to occur. But those so sorely tempted should remember
that a Court of Control has been appointed to take care of all erring freshmen and that punishment from this
court, announced to the student body, and in full sight of them, is far worse than any personal punishment or
pain to which an upperclassman might subject a freshman. And the upperclassman might well remember that his punishment, were he
caught, would prove far worse than any inflicted on the freshman. The student body which abolished hazing believed that it
was doing a wise thing, and the records of the past few years have borne them out in their supposition.
An upperclassman should think carefully before he attempts to violate this part of the constitution of the student body.

The alumni office has been doing a rushing business since school opened. There have been almost as many old boys
back for a visit as upperclassmen returning for another year’s work. One of our alumni has not yet been heard
from. The May King of 1927 is still among those missing. Reports have it that he was forced down in
the wilds of Hollywood on his attempted non-stop flight to Bluefield.

As usual, the press representatives come out with the doleful prediction that Davidson will finish fifth among the big five.
Not to brag any, but they prophesied the same thing last year. It will be almost a miracle if Davidson
does finish as well as she did last year, but still there are very few who believe she won’t be
just a little better than last at any rate.

It is extremely unfortunate that the races in Charlotte are never at such a date that some of the Davidson
entries may compete. There was quite an array of racing cars at the last day of school last year. Also,
unfortunately, a number of them “did not choose to run in 1927.”

Ollapodrida

“I shall not, therefore, be a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1928.” In such a definite manner did
William Gibbs McAdoo, former secretary of the treasury and director general of railroads, write last week in an open letter
to a Chattanooga newspaper. Said Mr. McAdoo, “I preferto stand aside in order that the field may be left clear,
so far as I can clear it, for the development of a leadership that can more effectively gain these ends.”
The announcement came as a surprise to few, as a certainty to most followers of the political game. Back in
1920 McAdoo was the favorite and choice of his party. He was handed the nomination and in turn graciously refused
it. The tide was against him. No Democrat could have been elected that year. Mr. McAdoo sized up the situation,
decided to bide his time. In 1924, after a Republican regime tainted with graft, McAdoo stepped forward, announced his readiness
to run. A divided party proved to be his undoing and he failed to muster the two-thirds majority necessary for
nomination. Governor Alfred Smith took the block in turn, failed to auction off his candidacy. As the 1928 campaign loomed
ahead, the party looked once more to the two great chiefs, felt them out, found by evasive methods that Mr.
Smith was being groomed once more, that McAdoo was non-committal. Now with straightforward decision, the latter has retired. Better political
minds think not. Mr. Smith is ambitious and has never received but one political setback, that being in his presidential
race of 1924. Should he become a candidate, he will probably be nominated to run against Mr. Coolidge. The outcome
is too far ahead for Washington to predict, but big business favors Coolidge and big business usually gets its man.
Meanwhile, Mr. McAdoo will fight Mr. Smith, groom himself for 1932.

Almost a hundred years ago in 1831, a group of farm hands stood watching a ponderous collection of wood and
blades being dragged in a crazy-quilt direction through a field of oats. The owner of the field gesticulated wildly among
the debris of his bunker crop, the laborers laughed uproariously, the rider of the awkward contraption jumped, ran before the
rage of the pursuing farmer. The pursued was one Cyrus McCormick, inventor of the reaper, founder of a company which
today manufactures thirty-eight labor-saving devices for farmers. Last week his successors announced the perfection of three more machines, a cotton
picker, a cotton boiler, and a cotton cleaner. The first is of greatest importance. Two men can run it over
a field, follow it as it discriminates between the ripe and unripened fibers, collect from two to five bales per
day. The same job takes the same two men from eight to fifteen days at present. Its influence upon the
southern farmer should be tremendous. It is farm relief. The original reaper stands in the Virginia state museum at Richmond,
a testimony to the genius and his successors.

An interested citizen and taxpayer of Los Angeles read in his paper that 383,550 gallons of petrol were used in
searching for the missing Dole flyers, telegraphed to Washington to see who paid the price. In turn, he received a
message that he, with other taxpayers, would foot the bill for $67,142.49. This is only a slight part of the
$350,000 which was paid out by interested parties in search of a $25,000 prize and glory. The well-meaning Mr. Dole
anticipated progress in his derby and helped to snuff out the lives of more than ten people who were tempted
to put fame and fortune before their well-being. Progress is a material part of nature, and nature has never been
hurried.

Mayor Thompson, with flaming posters and propaganda, boarded a train in Chicago, started a tour of the West last week
in definite anticipation of the coming presidential campaign. He placed himself on a platform which he reminds us would have
been upheld by George Washington. That is no international entanglements, flood relief, farm relief, and a development of inland waterways.
Openly Mr. Thompson seeks a candidate who will uphold his issues; far-seeing contenders see him being groomed for the nomination
himself.

Blah. The upperclassmen are eagerly awaiting a football game on the Hill so they can watch the freshmen run for
the water buckets when someone yells “Fire!” Speaking officially, we would like to express the sympathy of the entire student
body to the bereaved family of the late Felix. It will be too bad for the young swains around the
campus who will find it impossible to take their lady lovers “down to see the Wildcat.” Whether or not Mr.
Smith will retire from the race is a question in the minds of the public.

A BIT OF THIS and THAT By HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

There is something poignantly tragic about the fragility of beauty. Perhaps no one appreciates the full measure of that tragedy
more than one who, having been blessed with loveliness for many years, awakes one morning to find her beauty fading
and old age with its hideousness creeping on. The tragedy must be doubly agonizing when the beauty is lost entirely,
and its former possessor in desperation seeks a mode of reacquiring her earlier comeliness. A half-century ago, the English-speaking world
(particularly the male portion of it) bowed at the dainty feet of Carrie King, whose grace and elegance had made
her the reigning beauty of that age. She was playing the part of “Little Buttercup” in the original production of
Gilbert and Sullivan’s masterpiece, the “H. M. S. Pinafore.” With her gowns of lace and silk, and a flower-basket hat
that added to the beauty of her face, she sang her way into the hearts of all who attended her
performances. Women admitted her elegance, and men floundered at her charm. Sophisticated Londoners of the late seventies crowded about the
door of her cab as she left it on Trafalgar Square, or eagerly fought for a glimpse of her as
she took tea in the late afternoon at a Berkeley Square eating place.

A few weeks ago, an old friend discovered Carrie King in New York, occupying a room in a squalid little
hotel in the midst of New York’s “Roaring Forties.” She had lost her beauty, and instead of the lovely Carrie
King of the ’70s, the friend writes that he found a “battered, weak little woman, the victim of an accident,
uncomplainingly bedridden, and longing for another sight of the London and Paris she loved so well.” Fifty years earlier, Carrie
King’s illness would have been the signal for wealth and royalty to express sorrow and concern with great bouquets of
flowers. But, in the modest little room in which Miss King lay ill in New York, there was only a
single vase of withered roses, brought days before by a faithful friend. The most tragic part of it all is
that Carrie King still hopes to go again in search of a “Fountain of Youth” that will restore her lost
beauty.

A number of years ago, she underwent a gland operation at the hands of Dr. Serge Voronoff, the noted Viennese
gland surgeon, and though an arduous ordeal, she still believes it gave her renewed strength for a while. Her friends,
perhaps in pity, told her then that she was fresh and beautiful as she strolled the Parisian boulevards, a bit
unsteadily, with a jeweled monkey on her hat as a talisman. And now, she wants to try it again. “I
need my strength to write my memoirs and pay my bills,” she weeps.

Paris was her home for many years, even after she left her husband, Charles King. Her house in Paris was
the mecca for celebrities—the late Lillian Russell, a lifelong friend; Mary Garden, Ganna Walska, Nat Goodwin, and others. In Paris,
she had wealth, and her generosity in helping needy artists won her the name “Angel of Montparnassus.” Two years ago,
she came back to America, after a long absence, for a cataract operation. The accident, which has kept her to
her bed for more than twenty weeks, followed. Her wealth is gone. She has sold her fur coat and her
fine clothes. She has pawned her jewels. Today she is penniless. When found a few weeks ago, she was half-starved
and worried sick by her unpaid hotel bills.

One cannot help but admire the dauntless courage of Carrie King, who, in the midst of a poverty to which
she cannot accustom herself, still smiles with an urchin twinkle in her big, hazel eyes. And there’s a bit of
youthful vanity, if you please, in the pink ribbon tied around her bobbed white hair. A dozen empty lotion bottles
on her dresser testify of meticulous grooming before adversity came. “Of course my hair is white,” she tries bravely to
smile, “but it doesn’t mean I’m aged. I’ve always been white-headed; and married, too, for that matter. Both happened before
I was 16.”

Carrie King, facing poverty and no longer possessing the beauty that won her fame in the theatrical world of yesteryear,
is hoping against hope that she’ll soon be able to leave her bed and make her way somehow back to
Paris for another gland operation that she believes will restore her youth. But, Carrie King is past seventy, and even
if she had the money (she won’t accept gifts), gland surgery could hardly bring back the color that has faded
from her cheeks, and the elegance and grace with which she once captured a continent. That’s the tragedy of it.

Prisons in England have decreased by one-half and the number of inmates by two-thirds in the past few years. There
are today only thirty-three prisons and 10,000 prisoners.
