**The Davidsonian**  
Vol. XIV  
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON.  
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 26, 1927  
No. 16  

BALLOTS ARE CAST ON NEW AMENDMENTS FOR STUDENT CONSTITUTION  
Clause Concerning Drinking is Changed But Entire Student Body Will Still Act as Final Court of Appeal  

Two amendments to the student body constitution were voted upon at chapel Wednesday morning. A change was made in the section of the constitution dealing with the drinking of alcoholic liquors, but an amendment which would have made the Senior class the final court of appeal in student trials was voted down. A two-thirds majority was necessary for the passage of both amendments. The latter failed to obtain the necessary majority.

In a meeting Tuesday morning Bill Christian presented the amendment concerning the appeal to the student body, and outlined the Student Council's reasons for proposing such an amendment. He stated that in all organized government the court of appeal was always composed of a small body of men in order that justice might be administered and personal emotion and prejudices discounted. He showed that as a rule a large body of men are incompetent to judge fairly and for that reason the court of appeal should be vested in the Senior class, a body which the Student Council considers capable of administering justice. He also stated that the faculty approved of the amendment but had not proposed the same to the Student Council.

Following this presentation the floor was thrown open for discussion. Westbrook, Dick Grey, Bobby Glenn, Clancy Williams, and Harllee Branch defended the amendment, while Don Wharton and John McKnight opposed. A modification, stating that student councilors in the Senior class be deprived of their vote in the appeal, was proposed, but ruled out of order by President Pinkney. At the close of this discussion, Greer Davis called for the question. Pinkney postponed the vote until Wednesday morning with the approval of the student body.

Joe McConnell presented the amendment (Continued on page 8)

Spring Football to Start in February  
Spring football practice will begin this year on February 1st. Uniforms will be issued to the most promising fifty men who apply for them, on January 28th and 29th. Uniforms will be issued only on condition that those getting them will promise to attend practice regularly and remain out the whole season. Quoting “Monk” Younger, Coach of football, “All men of football size and ability, who are at this time engaged in some other form of sport, will be expected to report for spring football practice.” It is the policy of the present coaching staff to spend most of the spring practice taking up fundamentals of football from various angles, consequently, not only saving time, but eliminating as much “rough stuff” as possible, and preventing injuries in the fall. Men who do not report for spring training, unless excused by the coaching staff on account of being engaged in some other branch of athletics, will not be allowed to come out in the fall, as they will interfere with the regular schedule of practice. Spring practice this year will last at least two months, with Coach Tilson in charge. However, after March 1st, Coach Younger will be out to assist him with the backfield. As has been the custom heretofore, there will be, in the last month of practice, two or three games between two teams chosen from the squad, one being called the Reds and the other the Blacks. The practice of having spring football training was inaugurated by Younger and Tilson when they came here four years ago, and they have found it a great help in building up winning teams. The spring training season this year will be from 15 days to a month longer than that of previous years, Coaches “Monk” and “Tex” being determined to build up a strong team from the material they have.

Several New Courses to be Offered by Various Departments Next Term  
Definite announcements have been made by the heads of various departments of study concerning the addition of new courses to the college curriculum. These courses, which are to begin with the second term, are all advanced courses intended for those who desire to specialize along certain lines. Professor Fleagle, head of the Spanish department, has completed arrangements for the new course in conversational Spanish, termed Spanish 7. The first half of the year will be given over to a study of magazine and news articles with special emphasis on the spoken language. No textbook will be used. The second half of the year will be given over to a brief review of grammar and composition. A large amount of written work will be done the second half. Professor Fleagle states that this will be one of the most interesting courses ever offered in this department. It is to alternate with other advanced courses in Spanish so that one may obtain a large amount of work in Spanish. Another advanced course to be offered beginning with the second term is open to advanced studies in Political Science. This course, called a Seminar course in Political Science, is to cover the study of county government in the United States. Professor Currie says that this study, which has been so greatly neglected, should prove very interesting. Investigations into the status of county government will be conducted.

Large Number Out For Rifle Trials  
The elimination matches to choose the Davidson College Rifle Team will be fired Tuesday, January 18th. The highest scores will comprise the rifle team of this year. Following the selection of the team, a captain will be elected from their number who will assume the duties of coach and manager. Under the supervision and instruction of Lieut. R. C. Beckett, of the local R. O. T. C. unit, the team has gotten off to an early start. Between 25 and 30 men have been firing for the past week; some excellent shots have been discovered during this practice firing. Included among those trying for a place on the team are Captain Webb, of last year’s team, and G. R. Simms, winner of the medal given at Camp McClellan last summer for the highest score in the Fourth Corps Area. All indications point to a very successful season.

Professors to Make Summer Tours With Student Parties  
Watts and Irwin to Lead Parties to Europe  
STUDENTS SOLICITED  
Nisbet and Lincoln Also Act As Agents—Tours Vary in Extent and Price  

Two members of the Davidson College faculty, Professors Erwin and Watts, are to conduct European tours during the coming summer. In addition to these, “Mutt” Nesbit and “Abe” Lincoln are working up members for a third. Professor Erwin is to conduct the Babcock College Tour of Europe which Professor Currie and a party from Davidson took last summer. He would like to form a similar group of five or six congenial Davidson men for the trip. The party will sail from New York on June 29th and return on August 26th. The itinerary includes England, Belgium, Holland, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, and France. The cost of this trip is approximately $675. Professor Watts is connected with the Temple Tours, and expects to take charge over an extended itinerary, including points of interest in most of Europe, to leave in the latter part of June and return late in August. Nisbet and Lincoln are interested in securing a number of people for the Brownell Tours. These tours vary in extent and price, and include tours in different parts of Europe and of different lengths. Miss Nell Buchanan, an official of the Brownell organization, is to be (Continued on page 5)

Deputation From Union Seminary Conducts “Y”  
Members of Basketball Team Speak to Students at Sunday Vesper Services  

The program for the “Y” vesper service Sunday night was conducted by the deputation from Union Theological Seminary and was one of the most inspiring of the year. Mr. B. A. McIlhenny led the service, and several members of the deputation made interesting talks. The program was opened with several songs and a prayer by Mr. Malcolm Calhoun, of Laurinburg, N. C. Mr. Hugh Bradley, a member of the class of 1923, read a passage from the 21st chapter of John, in which Jesus questions Peter’s love. Mr. Bradley explained that love is the very foundation of Christianity. “Heathen religions,” he said, “are based on fear and serviced, and...The speaker was taking as his subject, he said, superstition, but it is the very essence of the religion as preached by Jesus, and we cannot get along without the Christian love.” Mr. Bradley further stated that the same question that Jesus asked Peter, “Lovest thou me?” is being asked of each one of us today, and we must each give our answer. Our answer to this question is expressed in our life, and if we would be true Christians, our conduct must be love toward God and service to our fellowmen.

The second speaker on the program was Mr. William B. Gardner, a graduate of Southwestern University. Naming some of the greatest men who have made their names illustrious in some activity, Mr. Gardner said that if he could sing the praises of the greatest man, with the world as an audience, he would sing of the love of Jesus. Taking as a text Philippians 2:5, he exhorted us to be of a like mind with Jesus. The Saviour, meek in equality with God and obedient unto death, was humble, and the true Christian in his dealings with God and with his fellowmen is likewise humble. “The ground at the foot of the cross is level.”

Quite an extensive schedule has been arranged for the team. Challenges have been received and accepted from the following institutions: Connecticut A. and M., during the week of January 22-29; Western University of Maryland, Emory, and Virginia Military Institute, February 1-5; Oklahoma A. and M., and University of Dayton, February 7-12.

LEW SARETT DELIVERS INTERESTING PROGRAM BEFORE STUDENT BODY

Juniors Prepare a Real Easter Event

The Junior Program Committee is rapidly rounding a highly interesting series of events into shape for the Easter Holiday season. Weekly meetings of each committee are being held, and the chairman and vice-chairman are directing the work. Bob Link, chairman of the committee, has practically completed a full program for the five-day holiday. The Dramatic Club will probably open the season with a performance Thursday night. The regular Junior Oratorical will be held sometime Friday morning or afternoon. The Glee Club is expected to sing Friday night. Saturday night, a special program, the contents of which have not been divulged, will be held in the gym. Sunday, special vespers will feature, and Monday the setting will be shifted to Charlotte.

Tyree Dillard, chairman of the oratorical program, has designated February 23rd as the day upon which the preliminaries of the Junior event will be held. Ten to fifteen men have signed up for this event at this time, and many others are expected to turn in their names soon. In the past, it was the custom for every member of the Junior class to take part in the oratorical, and the oratorical committee is endeavoring to revive this former usage by having as many men out as possible.

The publication board has granted the staff of Sanity Rare permission to solicit advertising for this annual comic offering, after February 21st. Work will commence on the business phase at that time. The editorial staff is already rounding material into shape, the contract will be let shortly, and the publication will be made bigger and better in every way. A number of printing firms in Charlotte have offered bids on the magazine, which will ensure a low cost.

Noted Naturalist, Poet, and Lecturer Gives Vivid Depiction of Woodland Life and Wilderness Characters—Stresses Love of Beauty

Before the largest crowd that has been jammed into Shearer Hall during the present semester, Lew Sarett, who may be characterized as a professor in winter, a ranger in the summer, and a poet all the time, addressed the student body last Monday. Mr. Sarett’s most entertaining speech dealt entirely with the North Woods and all the out-of-doors. With sketches, songs, and amusing stunts, he described the inhabitants of these regions and the calls of the animals that live in the forests. Songs, notes from field sketches, and incidents drawn from 18 years in Edison and Glacier National Parks were delivered.

Lew Sarett is at present a professor of public speaking at Northwestern University. He is the author of three books of poems, the latest of which, “Slow Smoke,” was adjudged the best book of poems in America in 1925. He is also an author of essays and writes for several magazines. Mr. Sarett began his address by depicting to his audience the world’s most crowded corner, State and Madison Streets, Chicago. He had just come from a serene and tranquil vicinity near Lake Superior. As he watched this hectic, fevered, high-strung crowd of go-getters for the first time, the question came to him: “How does a man propose to invest 70 years on this earth, and how does he propose to make them rich and mellow?” Some, he pointed out, work for fame; others to accumulate material things; and others, finally, to advance modern scientific views. For 60 years we are go-getters. Then we declare a dividend for ten years’ enjoyment. We are feverish for things we do not need. Many of us are living on the same esthetical, spiritual, and intellectual level as a hog wallowing in a bog. “A naturalist believes three things constitute a rich life: beauty, adventure, and love.”

Elect Dedman and Long

Reporters’ Club is to be Reorganized

A meeting of the Reporters’ Club of the Davidsonian was called immediately after the chapel exercises on Monday morning by the editor-in-chief, Harlee Branch, Jr., for the purpose of reorganization. The meeting was very short, but much business was dispatched. Branch, presiding, outlined some of the plans of the club for the second semester and especially stressed the fact that all members must work and do so consistently. He also made it plain that if any member failed to do his part to uphold the good reputation of the club by shirking work, that member would be promptly dropped from the roll, as only men who are willing to put out in reportorial work to the utmost are wanted. “The Davidsonian needs its reporters to help put it to the front, but it needs as reporters only those who will put the word ‘work’ first in their vocabulary,” Branch said. When he finished his plea for greater work from the club for a greater Davidsonian, the editor-in-chief then appointed W. T. Covington as temporary chairman of the club to get the members lined up for their task preparatory to the next regular meeting, at which time new officers will be elected and a reorganization along concrete newspaper lines will take place.

Freshmen Elect Officers

After a series of class meetings held by the Freshmen last week, the election of their officers has been completed. There were three meetings held at the beginning of last week, in each meeting one of the major officers being elected. The first was Monday morning, January 10th. At this time the president of the class was chosen. Six men were nominated by the Student Council and two more were nominated from the floor. On the second ballot, the nominees were narrowed down to two men, Alan Frew and Jim Matthews. On the final ballot, Frew was elected president of the class of ’30 by a neat margin over Matthews.

A second meeting was held the same Monday night for the purpose of electing a vice-president. In this election, all the nominations were made from the floor, the Student Council having no hand in the choice of the nominees. On the first ballot, the list of nominees was narrowed down to three men, Doc DeArmond, of Charlotte; Jim Matthews, of Washington, D.C.; and Jim Hammett, of Anderson, S.C. On the second voting, Hammett was eliminated, and on the final ballot, DeArmond was elected by a 71-56 majority. The last officer was elected the following morning. On the final ballot of this election, Zeb Long was chosen secretary-treasurer of his class over Jim Matthews. The Freshman class is now an official part of the student body.