THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1927

PLAYING THE GAME WITH WITHERS

Five-Year Contracts Initial Work-Outs Captain Directs Work Nine Teams Practice Season Ends Soon

Under the direction of Monk Mattox, freshman mentor, the varsity and freshman baseball battery-men have been holding workouts for the
last week. Some few men who are endeavoring to land berths in the gardens took part in the practices and
others will turn out in full force this week. After the close of basketball season, Coach Younger will have complete
charge of the sandlotters and will have a job on his hands. Wells is the only top-notch pitcher in the
lot eligible for the team, but some dark horses may be uncovered before the beginning of the season.

They're coming back—Monk and Tex, those two war-horses of North Carolina football. Not only next year, but the year after
that, and the year after that, and so on, for five years. Ain't it a grand feeling? This announcement will
do more to boost the glorious hopes of ardent Wildcat supporters than any other possible one or dozen. These two
men, since their advent to the Hill four years ago as coaches, have developed from almost nothing one championship team
and three others almost equally as good in football. In basketball, baseball, track, and cross-country they have developed units that
stand favorably under any light they may be placed. A prophecy may not be entirely out of order: “The best
is yet to be.”

The first public appearance, as it were, of Coach Younger since this important announcement was made by Dr. W. W.
Wood, faculty director of athletics, was Monday night in Columbia. There in the Palmetto State capital, Monk was the guest
of honor at a banquet tendered by the Columbia Alumni Association held just before the basketball game between the Wildcats
and the Gamecocks of the University of South Carolina. This newly formed association, in fact, the meeting Monday night was
the first formal one held by the club, is the result of effort from Ernest Milton, Alumni secretary, and a
group of interested Columbians. Several of this last group who may be named are Dr. Davidson Douglas, new president of
the University, OkKey Allison, and “Buck” Shaw.

Harry Goodykoontz, captain of the Wildcat cinder path artists, has had charge of the track practices since the opening of
the season. Officially, practice has yet to begin, as Coach Tilson is now directing spring football, but as the first
meet of the year comes in March, the aspirants for positions on the team are being whipped into shape now.
Several likely prospects—new faces to track supporters—are to be seen this spring. A number of men from the cross-country squad
of last fall are combatting for the distance runs. The withdrawal from school of Clement Penn, holder of the college
two-mile record, has opened a place in that race for someone.

Right now, nine athletic teams—varsity teams—have been in action during the past week. The cagers invaded South Carolina none too
successfully, however; the grapplers were matched by V. P. I.; tennis got under way with the announcement that additional courts
are to be constructed; Captain Elkins is managing the boxers; the sharp-shooters of the rifle team held competitive matches with
other schools; the trackmen are limbering up; the golf team is planning their spring tournament; Coach Tilson is putting on
the finishing touches to the spring football team.

South Carolina Invasion Blasts Aspirations of Wildcat Basketball Squad

Davidson Wins One Game Out of Five Starts But Contest Sharply

Falling into a losing streak, the Wildcat basketeers were able to win only one game out of five starts during
their trip through South Carolina. Losing first to the Parris Island Marines and then taking a game from the College
of Charleston 35-29, the Cats then dropped three in a row to Citadel and the University of South Carolina. Citadel
won their first 41-30 and the second by a score of 40-36 while the Gamecocks were rushed to the finish
to get away with a 34-29 victory.

In the game with the College of Charleston, the affair was closely contested and hard-fought throughout with the teamwork of
the Wildcats featuring. Snappy passing and goal tossing by the Davidson team enabled them to drop the Charlestonians in their
trail and leave them farther behind as the game progressed. As the end neared, the Wildcats were prepared to secure
the win.

Monogram Club Bows to Davidson Cagers in Exciting No-Fall Match

Frierson and Estridge Conquer Gobble Matmen—Crinkley Battles to a Draw

On Tuesday night, February 14th, the Davidson quintet overcame the famed Carolina Monogram Basketball Club of Charlotte, defeating them by
a score of 33 to 29. An extra five-minute period was necessary to determine the winner. The game ended with
the score tied at 28 each. During the intermission, however, the Wildcats picked up just enough extra breath to completely
run away with the fagged Monograms, and two field goals by Anderson and McAuley led the team to victory.

Virginia Polytechnic Institute defeated the Davidson College wrestling team here Saturday night: score, Virginia Poly. 13-1/2; Davidson 7-1/2. The match
was hotly contested the whole day through, the score being even until the last two classes when Virginia Poly. took
the 175-pound class and the unlimited, to go ahead by six points and thus take the meet. There were no
falls but interest remained high throughout.Spring football practice; and Captain Woodham, although suffering from a recent illness, is urging the
players of the “National Pastime” onward. You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling
Station: DAVIDSON, N.C. Preparing for another rush but the Charleston defense stiffened and the game ended 35-20. When they met
the Citadel Bulldogs in Charleston, the Cats were not so lucky and were left behind with 30 points to opponents'
41. McAuley was the star of the game, accounting for more than half of the Davidson points. Wilson played a
stellar game at center. For Citadel, Douglas, Weeks, and Willard formed a trio that couldn’t be stopped.

Citadel (41) Position — Davidson (30)
Douglas (18) ______ RF__-- Anderson (4)
Weeks (8) ________ SF__-- Calhoun (2)
Johnson (13) ______ C__-- Wilson (6)
Willard (2) _______ RG__-- Simpson (2)
Harrison ________ LG__-- Harrison

Substitutes—Davidson, Crawford; Citadel, Reeder (2), Epps. Referee, Eisenmann.

In the next game, the Davidson team played a jam-up game only to lose by a 40 to 36 score.
Anderson and Calhoun were outstanding for the Wildcats, playing in tip-top form all the time but lacked just enough punch
to overtake their opponents. Going on to Columbia, they met the strong University team and played to the small end
of a 34-29 score. The Gamecocks were forced to the limit in order to get away with the game with
Captain Anderson of Davidson leading his team toward victory and fighting their progress every step of the way. The Red
and Black team fought to the end.

McAuley (16) was keen all during the match. Goals and a foul proved sufficient to beat their opponents. The game
started with the Charlotte team scoring seven points before Davidson woke up. Goals by Newcombe and McDonald made it look
as though McDonald’s team would have a walkaway. Then Davidson started, and two beautiful shots by Harrison made the skies
loom brighter for the Davidson supporters. With the score at 11 to 15 in the Monograms' favor, the red-clad team
took a spurt ahead. A rally by the Monograms put them in a 19-16 lead just as the half ended.

Captain Frierson, of Davidson, continued his string of victories which includes triumphs over State men and the strong Army wrestlers.
The second half was a see-saw affair. The score was tied at 22, at 26, and at 28. Then came
the extra period with the Davidson team dashing away for their victory. The best the Monograms could do in the
extra period was to score a foul.

The results of individual matches were as follows:
118-pound class: Ford of V. P. I. lost to Captain Frierson of Davidson; time, five minutes, forty-five seconds.
128-pound class: Culpepper of V. P. I. won over Flythe of Davidson; time, two minutes and thirty-four seconds.
138-pound class: Andes of V. P. I. won over Davis of Davidson; time, four minutes ten seconds.
148-pound class: Hall of V. P. I. lost to Estridge of Davidson; time, two minutes and eighteen seconds.
158-pound class: Mahaney of V. P. I. and Crinkley of Davidson wrestled to a draw.
175-pound class: Fussell of V. P. I. won over Garrison of Davidson; time, six minutes and fifty-four seconds.
Unlimited class: Captain Mills of V. P. I. won over Vance of Davidson; time, three minutes and forty seconds.

DR. NOBLE (Continued from page 1)
Prior to speaking specifically about education as a profession, the educator stated that man’s particular ambition in general was to
achieve success, and that this, in the ultimate analysis, was merely being happy in the work which each one was
doing. “Of all human ambition,” he declared, “an open mind is the noblest, the rarest, and the most difficult to
achieve, but it is a necessary requisite to an intelligent choice of a vocation.” Dr. Noble remained at Davidson through
Thursday and had personal interviews with many Davidson students.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE
THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

Professional Notices
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Introducing to the readers of MR. GEORGE BRYAN (Davidson 1875-76)
Member of the Board of Trustees and Attorney
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

The Davidsonian

Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65-3
DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance
Commercial National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N.C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5, Evenings 7 to 9, Sundays 2 to 3

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314, and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N.C.
Phones: Office 5050, Residence 1937-J

Everything a good drug store can supply
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach, and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

WHEN IN STATESVILLE
CALL ON US FOR YOUR
BARBER SHOP WANTS
Commercial Barber Shop
Statesville, N.C.

THE Barber Shop

COMING! MARCH 2nd AND 3rd
Representative of SCHLOSS BROS. & CO.
Baltimore, Md.
PARKER & LINK

The Finest in
G. FISCHER
CAROLINA
One of the PUBLIX Theatres
OPENS TO A GALA PREMIERE MONDAY, MARCH 7th
FEATURING PARAMOUNT PICTURES AND B. F. KEITH VAUDEVILLE
IN THE CAROLINAS
