THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 8, 1927

Dr. W. P. Cumming Will Present Paper to Modern Language Association Meeting

Dr. W. P. Cumming, of the English department of Davidson College, will present a paper to the Modern Language Association,
meeting in Louisville, Ky., on December 30th. Other papers of various subjects will be presented at the annual meeting of
the association. “The Writings of St. Birgitta in England Before the Reformation” will be the subject of Dr. Cumming’s paper.
It will consist of notes taken, while in Oxford, from many manuscript copies in the libraries of England. A great
deal of time was spent by Dr. Cumming preparing the paper last year. While taking advanced work at Oxford he
spent much time preparing the papers.

The Modern Language Association is a meeting of all teachers in modern languages this side of the Mississippi River. The
gathering will consist of quite a number of noted professors. It will be remembered that Dr. Watts, of the French
department, presented a similar paper last year at this time.

During the conference of teachers, quite a number of papers will be presented on many varied subjects. These papers will
be presented in any of the modern languages. It is quite a high honor to be chosen by the association
to present a paper at their assembly.

WRIGHTS URGES (Continued from page one)

and marauding Germany will inquire about Chicago’s gunmen. America can learn many things in her relationships with this larger world.
Courtesies shown a traveler abroad put to shame our American hustle and bustle. America never thinks of the feelings of
newly arrived immigrants but sends them off in trains like so many cattle. Germany with her splendid system of agriculture
and conservation of natural resources can give us, the most wasteful nation on earth, something to think about and emulate.
England can show the way to America in the matter of law enforcement, respect for authority and order. Students of
America must be willing to learn from the larger world of Europe and must be ambassadors of good-will and enlightened
democracy. It is the task of State and Church to produce men of this character who will be able to
lead America into her place in the Larger World.

STUDENT CRITICISES (Continued from page 1)

are to believe editors of other days, is always inferior. One hopes that Christmas holidays may furnish inspiration to a
larger number of contributors in January.

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith - Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

S& W Cafeterias are catering to you (ATLANTA Soon)

Quartet Sings at Salisbury Service

A double quartet from the Davidson Glee Club, in company with Rev. L. Schenck, new professor of Mathematics and Bible,
conducted the evening service at the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, on Sunday, November 27th. The quartet gave three numbers.
Those composing the delegation were: S. Gray, Frank Pilcher, Bill Archie, Peay, Charlie Creech, Bob Lowrance, Syd Abernathy, Knox Poole,
and Proctor Thompson. Some of the townspeople and members of the First Church entertained the boys at dinner in various
homes, after which they had group singing.

Quartets of this kind are going to be called on more and more frequently in supplementing various “Y” deputations throughout
the year, as well as help with the music at the regular college “Y” services on Sunday night.

The Eu Literary Society held its weekly meeting on last Thursday night in the Eu Hall. After the roll call
and minutes, a very interesting program was given, which differed somewhat from the usual ones. A. R. Bird, Jr., gave
a very practical talk on the subject, “Are Brains Essential In Business?” Mentioning the names of many of the foremost
business men of the country, Mr. Bird impressed the fact that one cannot succeed without brains, and that the best
way to develop them is to finish the college curriculum. Hugh White read a very entertaining and interesting selection from
Robert Service. The customary debate was omitted as the officers are trying to introduce new ideas by changing the types
of meetings from time to time. Two new members were received, making a total of about 30 Freshmen that have
joined the society since the beginning of school. The two men were: B. M. Drake and A. R. Jackson. Much
interest is being taken in the work, which is progressing more smoothly than it has for the last two or
three years.

E. F. Bohannon, '27, who recently returned from New York and spent a few weeks at Davidson, is now located
with Stein Bros. & Boyce, at Asheville, N. C. B. W. Romefelt, ’22, is also connected with that firm, in
the capacity of manager of the Asheville office.

Judge E. McA. Currie, '16, of Charlotte, was the principal speaker at the “Ladies’ Night” program of the Monarch Club
in Charlotte recently.

R. S. Clary, ’14, formerly of Greensboro, is now located at Jacksonville, Fla., 527 Palmetto St.

ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

Charlotte, N. C., banking needs. The Commercial National Bank has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve
your 4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Government. Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
L. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. CashierT. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

Founded 1874

Glee Club Entertains Large Concord Audience
Stringed Instrument Trio Features Well-Received Program

Davidson is well represented over the South in various prep schools and high school coaches. One of these is C.
R. ‘Pat’ Crawford, who is acting for the first time as head coach at Guilford College. Besides Crawford, ten other
grads of Davidson are serving in the capacity of athletic coaches at the present time.

Mirth and jollity reigned supreme in the high school auditorium at Concord last Friday evening with the Davidson Glee Club
presenting its first out-of-town program of the year. In spite of the inclement weather, the auditorium was well filled, and
the entire program was received with much applause. Especially well received and applauded by the audience was the Stringed Instrument
Trio, consisting of Gordon McSwain, Mobley, and Proctor Thompson. This part of the program was rendered during the intermission, and
their presentations were encored a number of times. Ed. Wilson’s solos also made a hit with the Concord listeners. He
was accompanied at the piano by Mobley.

The program for the evening was: “College Ties,” by the Glee Club; Concert, by Orchestra; “The Bell Mass,” and “The
Brownies,” by Glee Club; solo, by Bob Lowrance; “Sunnyland Serenaders,” C. J. Allbright, director; “The Blind Ploughman,” Glee Club; intermission:
Stringed Instrument Trio—McSwain, Mobley, and Thompson; “The Broken Melody,” and “Bend Low, O Dusky Night,” by Glee Club; vocal solos,
Ed. Wilson, accompanied by Mobley; “Bells of St. Mary’s,” quartet (Gray, Lowrance, Foster, Thompson); “Mother’s Boy,” and “O, Davidson,” by
Glee Club.

The Glee Club appearance in Concord was sponsored by the King’s Daughters, with Mrs. J. P. Cook as president, and
the success of the program was due largely to her efforts.

Eleven Davidson Grads Coach Football Teams

Joe McConnell, a last year’s graduate of Davidson, and Leonard Dick, of the class of '23, are the football mentors
who have succeeded in putting Woodbury Forest on the pinnacle of prep school football for the South. Woodbury Forest has
always had an excellent football team, but this is their first Southern prep school championship in several years. Joe McConnell
was the varsity center of last year’s championship Wildcat team. He played in this capacity of varsity center for three
years. Leonard Dick won his varsity letters in football and in track.

For several years past, Wilmington High School has had a football team that has proven to be a big threat
for the North Carolina state championship. This is the first year, however, that they have turned out a real championship
team. Most of the credit for this state victory is due to Coach R. L. Black, who is an alumnus
of the class of '22. When Mr. Black went to Wilmington High School to serve in the capacity of coach,
the high school had at best but a mediocre team. He has so ably whipped the material offered into shape
that in the final championship game between Greensboro and Wilmington Highs, the Wilmington boys won out. Black was a member
of the varsity Wildcat football team.

A. W. O. Green and W. H. “Count” Leggette, both of the past year’s class, are now coaching at Concord
High. Both of these men won letters on the college championship team for the year of 1926. Leggette starred throughout
the whole season. Mason D. Fields, of the class of ’24, is coaching at present at Monroe High School, of
this state. Fields was a member of the football team while at Davidson. As has been stated above, C. R.
“Pat” Crawford coached at Gastonia High for three years. Before graduating with the class of '23, Crawford won a “D”
in varsity baseball and basketball. He was also a member of the scrub football team.

Rockingham High has for coaches, W. N. Treverton and R. L. Mitchell, both of the class of '26. Treverton was
a member of the varsity track and cross country teams. Bob Mitchell was a guard on the champion Wildcat team
and scored a touchdown in the title tilt, that with Duke. I. S. Christenbury, a Davidson grad of the class
of '25, is at present coaching football at Kings Mountain.

We want to know whether macaroni is overgrown spaghetti or spaghetti is stunted macaroni.

Ford—“I'm the Prince of Wales.”
Eddins—“Prove it.”
Ford—“Get me a horse.”

WHAT you get out of a pipe depends on what you feed it. Millions of contented jimmy-pipers will tell you
that Prince Albert commands a pipe to stand and deliver. You suspect you are in for some grand pipe-sessions the
minute you get a whiff of P.A.’s aroma. The first pipe-load confirms your suspicions. What a smoke, Fellows! Remember when
you asked for the last dance and she said “You’ve had it!”? P. A. is cool, like that. And sweet
as knowing that she didn’t really mean it.

PRINCE ALBERT

Sweet and mellow and mild and long-burning. Put your pipe on P. A. You can hit it up to your
heart’s content, knowing in advance that P.A. will not bite your tongue or parch your throat. P. A. is sold
everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with
every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process. No other tobacco is like it. Think of
all its other qualities! That one quality alone gets P.A. into the best smoke-fraternities.
