THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 10, 1927

Dr. Murchison Speaks at “Y” Vespers.

The second part was as follows: “Morning,” glee club; quartet, selected; Wildcat serenaders, selected; “Vesper Hymn” and “Oh! Davidson,” glee club. Mrs. Coral Hayne Baker is director of the glee club. John Sumter McRae is president; William Oscar Green, business manager; Caldwell Withers, advance manager; John S. Foster, Jr., vice-president, and Edwin L. Douglass, vice-president.

VICTORY THEATRE MOORESVILLE - WEEK---MARCH 14-19
Mon. 14. “Marriage.” A Fox Special.
Tues. 15. Mae Murray in “Valencia.”

Davidson’s two literary societies, the Philanthropic and the Eumenean, were founded in 1837. They have been, throughout the history of the college, influential in many lines, especially in debating and public speaking. In former years the magazine was under their sponsorship and management, while for a time after the foundation of the college theirs were all that Davidson had in the way of a library. Though the scope of their activities has been reduced, the literary societies still serve to develop a phase of college life which is too often neglected in these days of the magazine and newspaper, that of public speaking. In them men are given the opportunity to take part in debates and to deliver declamations and orations, all of which help to train them as speakers.

A recent dispatch from Chapel Hill states that literary society work is on the decline at the University, and similar reports from other parts of the country indicate that athletics and dramatics have taken precedence. Though this tendency has been felt at Davidson, the literary societies are still very much alive, and especially since the recent merger of the societies.

Pure Thoughts Urged as Always Necessary to Successful and Happy Life

“Pure Thoughts” was the subject of Dr. Hugh R. Murchison’s address at the Y vespers Sunday evening. Dr. Murchison is an alumnus of this institution, being a member of the class of ’93, and now head of Biblical Instruction in the University of South Carolina, having formerly been connected with Columbia Seminary. Dr. Murchison chose for his text Philippians 4:7, 8: “And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall guard your hearts and thoughts in Christ Jesus. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honorable, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue and if there be any praise, think on these things.” He went on to show that psychology has proven that we can regulate our thoughts just as we can regulate our eating or anything else. Just as many men dig their graves with their knives and forks, so many men dig their graves and eternal destinies through evil thoughts. If there are no evil thoughts there would be no evil deeds for no deed is done that does not originate from a thought.

Town News

Miss Elizabeth VanLeer will spend this week-end with Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle. Mrs. Hugh Grey, of Bristol, Tenn., who spent several weeks with Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey, has left to visit her parents in Greenwood, S. C. Mrs. E. W. Smith, of Dunn, N. C., spent several days last week visiting her son, E. W. Smith, Jr., who is a freshman at Davidson. Miss Anna Howard, who has been spending most of the winter with Mrs. J. M. McConnell, expects to leave for her home at Charlottesville during the next week. Mrs. McConnell will accompany her for a visit. The Executive Committee of the Senior Christian Endeavor held a banquet at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel on last Friday night, which was thoroughly enjoyed by all of its members who were present. Miss Daisy Caldwell entertained a few of her friends at an informal Rook party on last Saturday evening. Bob Kell entertained the Boy Scouts at a banquet held at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel on Monday night, March 1st. Miss Jane Price, of Lewisburg, W. Va., is spending several weeks with Mrs. W. W. Woods. Mr. McDowell Richards, a student at Columbia Seminary, spent last week-end with his parents, Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards. Mrs. Earl Montgomery, of Charlotte, is visiting her mother, Mrs. Hayne Henderson.

PLAYHOUSE MON. NIGHT, MAR. 14
A Night of Festivities Never to be Forgotten
Musical Comedy, Opera, Speakers, Dancing and Famous Singers.
TO SECURE TICKETS BY MAIL NOW

Wed.-Thurs. 16-17. Adolph Menjou in “Sorrows of Satan.”
Fri. 18. Anna Q. Nilsson in “The Masked Woman.”
Sat. 19. Tom Mixthoughts was to read pure and noble books and to ignore all that was trashy and impure in books. For just as a corrupt tree cannot bring forth good fruit, so pure thoughts will not result from the reading of salacious literature.

Mrs. White and Mrs. Vowles entertained the Music Club at the Civic Hall on Thursday evening.

An American firm has published “The Story of the Motor Car.” A kind of autobiography as it were.

Spring Showing to a large extent supplanted that time-honored institution. Though this tendency has given new impetus to two of the societies.

Prices include tax: Lower floor, $2.20; first four rows Balcony, $1.65; balance Balcony, $1.10; Mezzanine Loge Seats, $2.75. Seats now on sale at Playhouse Theatre box office, Phone 638.

"Lost Trail," by Zane Grey.

He brought out that the best way to develop pure thoughts was ever present; and Dr. Murchison did not fail to impress his hearers with the need that all thoughts should be pure ones.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Dr. A. S. Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, in speaking before the Vocational Guidance Institute last week declared that above all things, a call to the ministry is an overpowering sense of a world need and a feeling that God has given one the ability and the opportunity to meet the need. His audience consisted of ministerial students and those who were considering the ministry as their life’s work. He stated that those who considered the ministry should not enter it for any reason other than a call expresses itself and that this may come in a number of ways.

The requisite of a minister as Dr. Johnson outlined them follows: “First of all, a prospective or would-be minister should have personality. It is not necessary for him to have a great intellect as illustrated by the life of Dwight L. Moody, who was the greatest preacher in the last few centuries. He had no education, but possessed great zeal and enthusiasm.” The visitor stated, however, that a man must have some mental equipment and a great deal of mental training, for the Presbyterian Church requires him to have an A.B. degree or its equivalent. He advised the ministers to be always abreast of the times, for he said that the more a pastor knows about different subjects, the more he is able to serve.

Having discussed personality and mental training as two requisites, he stated further that the most important of all was for a man to possess spiritual power and spiritual force, which “can be obtained only by intensive and continuous study of the Bible, a continuous searching for the truth and a reliance on God through prayer and close communion with Him.” He averred that the reason why one-tenth of the ministers of the Presbyterian Church are without pastorates today is because they have “lost their spiritual zeal and power.” He closed with the characteristic and significant remark that “I would rather be a minister of the gospel than president of the United States.”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

If we had the gambling spirit we'd be willing to wager that there isn’t another group of suits that can hold a candle to these when it comes to life and color. You’ll see the newest, brightest, most colorful woolens the best looms can weave.

Mon. & Tues, Feb. 28, & March 1
Clara Bow in “It”

Wednesday, Thursday, March 2, 3
Charles Ray in “Getting Gertie’s Garter”

Friday, March 4
Billy Dove in “An Affair of the Follies”

Saturday, March 5
Tim McCoy in “Winner of the Wilderness”

Hats, Shoes, Sox, Neckwear, Shirts, Pajamas

The Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity entertained charmingly at an informal reception last Friday night in honor of Dr. and Mrs. Lyons.

The Tate-Brown Co.