- THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. XIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 24, 1927 No. 23 BOYCE MARTIN CHOSEN EDITOR OF DAVIDSONIAN CHARLES McRAE WINS PRESIDENCY OF LOCAL 'Y' ON SECOND BALLOT Two Records Shattered Brown of Greensboro is High Majority Necessary for Election is Obtained in First Round of Balloting in Win Over Lingle and Withers With an overwhelming majority, B. J. Martin, of Atlanta, Ga., outstripped his two rivals in The Davidsonian election last Monday morning, and won the coveted position of editor-in-chief of the publication for the ensuing year. Martin's majority of more than 80 votes gave him a clear title to the office, this being one of the few times in the history of The Davidsonian that a candidate has won the annual election on the first ballot. A large number of absences resulted in a small vote, only 331 votes being cast in the election. Of this number, Martin was out in front with a total of 206 votes. Lingle, Jr., of Richmond, Va., was second with 105 votes, and Caldwell Withers trailed the other two candidates with a following of 20 votes. The three candidates nominated were by the staff, after the service of each had rendered him eligible to compete in the election. No elections were made from the floor. Boyce Martin, the winning candidate, will assume the duties of his new office within a few weeks, following the selection of a new staff. His election marks the climax of a colorful three-year career in journalistic and literary activities at Davidson. During the year just closing he has been assistant-managing editor of The Davidsonian, as well as a member of the staff of both the magazines and the yearbook. During his Sophomore (Continued on page 8) Dick Grey Selected as 1927 Football Captain All-State Halfback of Championship Eleven to Lead 1927 Team Dick Grey, star halfback of Davidson's championship football team of the past season, has been selected as captain of the Wildcat eleven for 1927, this announcement being made at Shearer Hall last night. This came as no surprise to many students and his friends, who had expected him to be chosen leader. Dick Grey was the most outstanding man of Davidson's championship team of the past season, and was largely responsible for the success of the Wildcats by his versatile playing. Because of his excellent ability to drop-kick, he was able to send the football through the goal posts for six three-pointers. In the games with P. C. and State, the Wildcats were victorious in each encounter by a 3 to 0 score because of his drop-kicking. He tied the score with Wake Forest, making it 3 to 3 by a field goal, and cinched the win over Carolina by adding three more counters to the only touchdown in the game. While his work at drop-kicking has been pre-eminent, he has been a power in several other respects in the Davidson backfield. He is a punter of no mean ability, and his kicks have sent the enemy back from Wildcat territory many times. He can hurl passes, and is an excellent carrier of the ball, and in case of emergency, calls signals. At the close of the past season, Dick received some national recognition. His picture, and an account of his achievements, were published in over 600 newspapers in the United States through the NEA service. Grey's home is at Davidson, his father being vice-president of the college and professor of Latin and French. This star halfback played on the local high school team, captaining that eleven through a successful season. Until he was a Freshman at Davidson, he had never played in a football game which was lost. SANITY RARE Sanity Rare, journalistic organ of Junior Week, goes to press during the early part of next week. The editors are still in need of some copy and would like to request that any members of the student body, who have cartoons or humorous sketches, turn them into Caldwell Withers as soon as possible. The publication will be slightly smaller this year than heretofore, due to the increased cost of publication. It will consist of 32 pages and will be distributed at the Saturday night fete. Rice Honored With Phi Beta Kappa Bid W. B. Rice, of China, was the lone member of the class of 1926 to be elected to the North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at the last election of that body. The election was held last Wednesday at the meeting of the chapter. Three alumni were also taken in. This establishment of the North Carolina Gamma Chapter here is the first time since the fraternity has taken in any alumni. This year the fraternity has taken in six to eight men as contrasted with the usual two students a year. Ordinarily, two elections are held, one in the fall and one in the spring. Last fall four students were bid into this august body and eight alumni were also elected into it. The four students taken into membership last fall were W. A. Christian, H. M. Austin, W. T. Covington, and W. S. Wools. All of the above men are not only leaders (Continued on page 5) Converse Players Coming March 29 The Converse College Dramatic Club, the Converse Comediennes, will present a three-act play in Shearer Hall on March 29th. The title of the play is “You and I," by Sir Philip Barrie. It will be given under the auspices of the class of '28, and will be one of the high spots in the series of entertainments sponsored by the Juniors during the year. Organizations at Converse are well supervised and directed by the faculty so that they are consistently good. It is not hard for a Converse group to make a hit at Davidson but this play is especially noteworthy and every effort will be made to secure a record attendance. This is the first time in several years that Converse has sent a play here, although it is the second organization the college has sent here this year. The Glee Club gave a concert in Shearer during the past month and made an excellent impression, the performance being acclaimed as the best of its kind heard here for some time. The Comediennes are certain to uphold the high standard and when it is considered that Converse usually presents pulchritude as well as talent, it is certain that the play will prove a strong drawing card with local students. Tickets will be on sale a day or two in advance. The cast follows: Veronica Duane - Lyall Wanamaker Roderick White - Celia Mathews Nancy White - Leasel Doss Maitland White - Frances Cochran Julia Fairy - Louise Harvey Geoffrey Nichols - Louise Black Point Man CHARLOTTE WINS Keen Competition Brings Fifteen High Schools to State Meet Here Saturday With 15 high schools offering keen competition, Charlotte took first honors in the Davidson track carnival last Saturday, more than doubling the nearest opponent in points scored. Two high school records were shattered in this meet in which some 17 athletes took part, when Neiman, a boy from Charlotte, raised the pole vault record to 10 feet 2 inches, and Brown, of Greensboro, threw the discus 14 feet farther than the former record. Brown, the Greensboro weight heaver, was high-point man for the day, winning first place in the discus, shot, and javelin events. Neiman, with a first, second, and a third, was second with 10 1-5 points, while Milstead from Charlotte, garnered 10 points by winning both hurdle races. Charlotte collected eight first places, Greensboro four, and Wilmington one. Charlotte’s success was a repetition of last year's performance when they led the field at the Davidson meet. They received another loving cup which was presented by T. L. Jackson, representing the Davidson Athletic Association. The Davidson Freshmen entered inseveral events and won places in each instance, although their participation was not recognized by the officers: Lafferty, Goodwin, McGavock, Whittle, King, and Kirkland. (Continued on page 3)

Pair of Rousing Concerts Staged During Week-End
Glee Club Gives Performance at Spartanburg and Gastonia on Three-Day Trip

Spartanburg, S.C. - The vocal talent of the Glee Club of Davidson last weekend was showcased in a series of performances. The entire club, consisting of the chorus, quartet, Symphony orchestra, and jazz orchestra, left the campus around 10 o'clock Saturday morning in two large buses and reached Spartanburg early in the afternoon. The entertainment that evening was given at Converse to a large audience of town people and fair maidens. The listeners were very appreciative, and much applause was given to the different numbers on the program. The program for the evening was as follows:

First Part: “College Ties,” Glee Club and Symphony Orchestra, W.T. Hamilton, director; baritone solo, R.S. Lowrance; “Swinging Along” and “Dreamers,” Glee Club; quartet, Green, Foster, Melkae, and McGill; Wildcat Serenaders, C.J. Albright, director; “Keep On Hopin’,” Glee Club.

Second Part: “Morning,” Glee Club; quartet, selected; Wildcat Serenaders, selected; “Vesper Hymns” and “Oh! Davidson,” Glee Club.

The members of the Glee Club and Orchestra were entertained at dinner Saturday evening by the Sophomore class of Converse, which class sponsored the Glee Club program. The weekend was very pleasantly spent in Spartanburg, the boys being entertained in the homes of the Presbyterians of the city. On Monday morning, the club started on the return trip to Davidson, stopping in Gastonia that evening to render a performance at the Gastonia High School. The appearance was arranged for the club largely through the efforts of several old Davidson men now located in Gastonia. The club was well received by both high (Continued on page 5)

DAVIDSONIAN STAFF

Announcement of the staff for the Davidsonian was made by Martin Bovee last week. A number of promising men have been trying out for these positions, therefore no one is as yet assured of a place. This announcement is looked forward to with great interest by those interested in the paper because these men will help edit the paper next year. The three positions for editorship for the coming year are:

Debating Team to Open Season Early

Davidson debating teams will enter inter-collegiate debates when they argue against teams from Johns Hopkins and Emory Universities in Charlotte on March 28th and 30th, respectively. The Johns Hopkins team brings its affirmative side to Charlotte, consisting of two men who have taken part in debating circles for some time and who are closely connected with many student activities at the University. Eugene O'Dunne, Jr. is the first speaker of the affirmative, with his teammate, Donald C. Niles, speaking third. Mr. Dunne is the business manager of the Johns Hopkins yearbook; business manager of the “News-Letter,” the University weekly publication; and also a member of the Student Council and Omicron Delta Kappa. Mr. Niles comes as speaker and secretary of the Debating Council, manager of the track team, and a member of the “News-Letter” staff. The forensic men from Johns Hopkins (Continued on page 7)

Campus Sheiks to Seek Movie Fame

Anita Loos' remark that “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes” has become a pertinent statement in Hollywood. Now, her lieutenants and henchmen are paraphrasing it to read, “Screen Shebas Prefer College Sheiks.” Throughout the length and breadth of these forty-eight United States, one hears the incessant demand for college movie-heroes. From Hollywood to the dismal swamps of Georgia, war-debts are being forgotten while the D.W. Griffiths, DeMilles, and Cecile B. DeMilles of filmdom continue their tireless search for future matinee idols among the baggy-trousered campus sheiks. College Humor is conducting a contest in which ten college men will be selected to make a trip to Hollywood (postage prepaid) to have their dramatic ability tested by the leading directors and cameramen of the movie colony. Of the ten men, whose facial features, physique, and intellect win them a trip to the Pacific Coast, a number of them will be signed up on screen contracts that would bewilder the college professor. An advance notice from College Humor declares that picked squads of technical operators and their advance men will visit more than 30 colleges in America to select the ten screen stars of tomorrow. (Continued on page 8)

Dick Flynn and Bill Hill Selected as Vice-Presidents From Field of Six Candidates on Third Ballot

In the balloting held last week for Y.M.C.A. officers for the ensuing year, Charles McRae emerged as victor for the office of president from a field of four candidates, while Dick Flynn and Bill Hill were selected as vice-presidents from a list of six candidates. The voting was close in practically every case, while the anticipation of the student body was at a high pitch as to who would guide the destiny of its Y.M.C.A. for 1927-1928. There were no nominations from the floor, the students seconding and accepting as candidates those ten men who had been nominated by the Y.M.C.A. Board of Control for the respective positions. Nominations for president were Howard Arbuckle, John Foster, Charlie McRae, and Camp O'Neal. Those men nominated for vice-presidents were Job Covington, Dick Flynn, Monroe Gilmour, Reid Graham, Bill Hill, and Bob Wells. The results of the first balloting held on Thursday morning at chapel left Foster and McRae for another session to go through, and the results of this session on the following morning declared McRae the new president. For vice-presidents, Dick Flynn, Monroe Gilmour, and Bill Hill were left in the running after Thursday morning, the day following seeing only one of these having a sufficient margin for election - Flynn. The third and final ballot Saturday, between (Continued on page 8)

Junior Week Committee Plans Remarkable Fete

Program Offers Kaleidoscopic Array of Interesting and Entertaining Numbers

Plans for the entire program of Junior Week have been announced by the Junior Week Committee. The present program includes the entire vacation which begins Thursday, April 14th, and continues to the morning of Wednesday, April 20th. On Thursday night, April 14th, the Junior Oratorical Contest will be held. The preliminaries for this contest will be held on the night of March 30th, and six men will be chosen from those competing to enter the contest on the first night of Junior Week. Nothing definite has as yet been decided to fill the morning and afternoon of Friday, but there is a possibility that one or two athletic contests of some sort will be arranged. On Friday night, The Davidson College Glee Club will give a concert here in Shearer Hall. The entire cast of the club will be present and the complete program will be given. On Saturday afternoon, the Davidson Freshmen nine will play the Wingate Junior College aggregation on the local diamond on Richardson Field. The high spot and big attraction of the entire Junior Week program will come Saturday night when the Junior Class presents its annual attraction at the gym. Details of the program on this night will of necessity have to be kept secret until the night of the attraction. Reports from the committee are that this entertainment will surpass anything that has ever been shown here at Davidson. The various sub-committees of the Junior Week Committee are all laboring on the various parts of the program, including decorations, entertainment, etc., and Junior Night promises to be a great surprise and treat for everyone who attends. Sunday morning there will be a special (Continued on page 2)