2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 29, 1927

Sport Talk -:- News and Views of Wildcat Events
By Raymond Lake

One and all we welcome “Tex, Jr.”! A more welcome addition could not have been made to the population of Davidson than little “Tex.” They say he weighs only about six pounds, but the smallest babies often make the biggest men, and if Tex, Jr., follows in the footsteps of his father, he'll be no exception to this rule. Our fondest hope is that he will like the home of the Wildcat and that some day he will grow up to be a true fighting member of the Wildcat eleven.

Davidson 5, Citadel 0! Not a bad start, in our opinion, especially when we stop to consider the fact that the odds were against us. The Wildcats are used to causing upsets, however, and, unless we miss our guess, there will be quite a few more before the season is over. The showing made by the Wildcats in Saturday’s game was unusually good for the first game of the season. With the improvement that is bound to come with more practice and more games, they'll be hard to stop before the season is over.

Victory is often bought at a high price, but its toll this time was unusually high. “Red” Grey, a power in the Wildcat line, pulled some of the ligaments in his arm and will not be able to play for several weeks at least. This loss might cause some to fall down into depths of despair, but we've got “Monk” and “Tex,” so why worry? They’ve built a team out of almost nothing before and if it’s necessary they can do it again. DeArmon handles the pivot position in fine style, and although he is a little light for a college team, he makes up for this loss in fight and determination. Harrison’s two long runs, Grey’s usual unbeatable “toe work,” and Nesbit’s line plunging were features of the game. In our opinion, we're not handicapped at all in the backfield. With these three men at halves and full and Wilson at quarter, and with Kell, Flynn and others to substitute for them, we've got a backfield that will stand with the best of them. Flynn showed unusual ability in bucking the line when he broke the Cadet line for about 10 yards. In the line, Arrowood, Melton and Laws were the outstanding players. These three men broke through consistently and the gains made over them were few and far between. Arrowood showed the form of an experienced backfield man when he caught the Citadel pass and started toward a touchdown. Melton, despite the fact that he had a bad foot, was in on every play and played like a star player in the best of condition. The whole line showed up unusually well, and although it suffered some injuries, we're not feeling so blue.

We'd like mighty well to find out what kind of a jinx Wake Forest has over Carolina. It might come in mighty handy sometimes. With overwhelming odds against them, the Deacons won out over the Tar Heels for the fourth consecutive time, coming out on the long end of a 9 to 8 score. It seems that the game resembled the Carolina-Davidson game of two years ago in several respects. The Tar Heels seem to have been the winners in everything except the score. They gained more ground through the air, more through the line, and seem to have been the winners in every other way except in the final score. We're not grieving over the results, however. It helps us out and gives us a better chance in the fracas.

It seems a shame that the Wildcats couldn’t put over a touchdown when they had the ball on the one-yard line. We can’t ask for too much, though. We won the game, and the Citadel Cadets probably got a lot of satisfaction out of the fact that they kept the Wildcats from putting the old ball over the line—they held the Wildcats on the one-yard line even if they did lose the game.

The Florida game Saturday should tell quite a lot. It won't have any direct bearing on the championship, but if we can beat them, it will mean quite a lot. Florida has a strong team and it will put the Wildcats on the map, so to speak, if we can come out on the long end of the score Saturday. We can't go to the game, but let’s all be at the gym and back ’em to the limit.

You are not doing a good job unless you would rather work than be idle.

Wildkittens All Set for Clash With Oak Ridgers
To Engage Florida Gators for First Time

Despite “Monk” Mattox’s difficulty in unifying his Wildkitten eleven, which was due to the fact that the candidates who had had former experience were out for more or less the same positions, they are showing much better form in the third week of the season’s practice. Suitable weather has favored good work-outs for the past week. In the scrimmages with the varsity the team has exhibited a most excellent defense. The backfield is showing itself to have much speed as displayed by Goodykoontz, halfback, who is a cousin of the “late” Harry Goodykoontz. He affected several brilliant runs in the varsity scrap. Page, all-state tackle from Gastonia, and Covington, are ably upholding their positions at tackle. Foil and Mason are winning an enviable reputation in their respective berths of guard and center. The average weight of the team is about 160 pounds, which is quite a weight record for Davidson “Fresh” squads. The backfield averages about 10 pounds less than the linemen. It begins to look as if Coach Mattox has succeeded in building a first-class fighting machine to begin wearing the red and black.

The 1927 season opens with a clash with Oak Ridge Military Institute. The game is scheduled for October 8th, the Wildkittens invading the home grounds of the Oak Ridge varsity. The two teams have not met for two consecutive years. In 1924 our Freshmen met the “Ridgers” in Statesville with an overwhelming tally of 36-3 in favor of the Davidson rats. But that was the first year that the Military Academy had really fostered a gridiron eleven. Last year the Ridgers were reported to have had one of the heaviest if not the heaviest team in the state. They defeated Catawba last year with a score of 66-0. The Oak Ridge Cadets opened their 1927 season against Hargrave Military Institute, of Virginia, Saturday, September 24th. The Hargrave students were routed by a score of 20-0. The odds were in favor of the Ridgers from start to finish. The team showed a very strong offense, accomplishing their maneuvers by a series of line bucks and tackle plays. They are credited with five consecutive first downs with a total of 13 against 2 for Hargrave. Captain Goodson displayed good generalship, while Beavor, Frazier and Kistler showed up well in the backfield.

From all evidences, it looks as if the Davidson Junior Eleven will have a lively time in routing the varsity of its military opponents, but the Wildkittens are eager to sharpen their claws on the first prey of the 1927 gridiron season.

The probable line-up of the two teams will be as follows:

Davidson Position Oak Ridge
Plot .......... End ........ Gardner
Brock ........ Tackle ...... McDade
Mason ........ Center ...... Owens
Mohn ......... Guard ....... LaFevre
Covington .... Tackle ...... Webb
Gilham ....... End ......... Daughtry
McGall ....... Quarter ..... Goodson
Goodykoontz .. Halfback ... Kistler
David ........ Halfback ... Frazier
Fraley ....... Fullback .... Beavor

Tex Tilson Sounds Cross Country Call

The Wildcat cross country team started out for light practice on Thursday, September 22nd. Dutch Wearn, track manager, issued the call to which 17 men responded. A tentative schedule has been worked out, but not completed. Of the 16 men out for the three and one-half mile run, only one of them appeared on last year’s team. Since cross country work has been deemed worthy of receiving a minor letter, it will be a hard grueling run over a course, by no means regular, to receive no reward for the work. Beginning last year, the Athletic Board agreed on giving a letter for the sport. The men answering the first call for practice are: Sloop, Martin, Brownell, Russell, Lafferty, Neuman, Beavers, McGeehee, Russell, Helms, Jarratt, Barr, McCall, McAuley, Turner, Kirkland, and Wilkinson. The only one of the well-contested-for sports.

Wildcat to Invade Lair of Heavy Florida Team in Gainesville Saturday
To Engage Florida Gators for First Time Since 1924

LEAVE THURSDAY NIGHT
Jim Grey Will be Out of Game—DeArmon or Hampton to Substitute

Davidson’s second football foe for this year, after the victory over Citadel College, will be the University of Florida. Florida’s “Gators” has also had one game, from which she emerged the victor by a score of 26 to 7, with the Southern College on the small end. The Davidson vs. Florida game is to be played on the Gators’ home field, in Gainesville, Florida, on Saturday, October 1st. Coaches Younger and Tilson are to take a squad of about 25 men. The Wildcat squad will leave Davidson on Thursday night and arrive in Gainesville about 12 o’clock Friday morning. Although the Gators came out nearer the bottom of the Southern Conference than the top last year, their team for this year has been greatly strengthened by the Freshman squad of last year. The University of Florida’s Freshman squad of the year 1926 won the state football championship and were among the claimants for the Southern Conference championship. The varsity’s weight has been greatly augmented by these Freshmen of last year. Indeed, weightwas a very important factor in the victory over Southern College, which is a small co-educational college of about 350 or 400 students. The strength of the Wildcat team was seriously impaired by the injury of Jim Grey, the varsity center, in the latter part of the Citadel game. Several ligaments were severely sprained in his arm, but no bones were broken. Grey will be out for about three weeks, but it is hoped that he will be able to take his regular place toward the end of the season. Either Hampton or DeArmond, who are both Sophomores, will take Grey’s place, it is thought. Some friend sent the Wildcats a small alligator, presumably to familiarize the Wildcats with their impending enemy. The gator has been unable as yet to escape. Florida’s schedule for this year is as follows:

U. of Florida vs. Sou. Col., Sept. 24.
U. of Florida vs. Davidson Col., Oct. 1.
U. of Florida vs. Albany Col., Oct. 8.
U. of Florida vs. U. of Ky., Oct. 15.
U. of Florida vs. N. C. State, Oct. 22.
U. of Florida vs. Mercer Col., Oct. 29.
U. of Florida vs. U. of Ga., Nov. 5.
U. of Florida vs. U. of Ala., Nov. 12.
U. of Florida vs. Wash. & Lee, Nov. 24.

The experienced member is Martin, who had quite a bit of running last year. John Ely, the only letter man from last year’s team in school, is expected to come out in a short time. He has been detained on account of an operation. The schedule for the fall consists of one positive meet. There is a meet pending with Wofford here on October 15th. The meet with Duke has been settled for October 29th, in the morning of Homecoming Day. There is another meet pending with N. C. State in Greensboro on November 5th. This, however, depends on the finding of an available course to run it on.

BIG FIVE SCORERS
Player. College Td. Ex.Pt. F.G. T’tl.
Adams—State 12
Warren—State 12
Outen—State 7
Goodwin—State
Janeski—Duke
Cox—W., F.
Ferrell—Car.
Grey, R. Dav.
James—W., F.
McDowell—State
*McConnell—Dav.
*Schuler—Car.
Buie—Duke
*Safety.

Wildcat Grapplers Have Three Men for Nucleus
Garrison, Hill, and Flythe to Lead Team

Although this is a little early in the year to predict a championship in wrestling to match the one in football which every true Wildcat earnestly hopes for, the prospects point toward a season at least as successful as the one of 1927. The team will be built around the nucleus formed by three returning men, Captain Jeff Garrison, in the 148-pound class; Tom Hill, in the light heavyweight division, and W. H. Flythe, who will wrestle in the 128-pound class. Perhaps the greatest loss, and certainly the hardest position to fill, will be that left vacant by the graduation of Joe Frierson, captain last year. Not only will he be missed because of his exceptional ability, but because of the fact that so few men can train down to the 119-pound class. As the wrestling season has not yet started, the quantity and quality of the reserve material is not yet known, but from last year’s record, the most promising candidate for Frierson’s berth seems to be Kilgore, who showed up well with last year’s Freshman team. Other members of the Freshman team who will provide competition for the varsity wrestlers and those who try for the other places are Tom Brohard, Christiansburg, Brown, and Russell. Another problem which has faced the team each year and was especially noticed last year was the lack of men in the heavyweight ranks. So scarce were these men last year that Garrison, who should wrestle in the 148-pound class, on several occasions was moved up to the 169-pound class, and Hill, who weighs 170, was forced to wrestle men who outweighed him more than 20 and 25 pounds. This problem may be settled by several men who are now playing football and have signified their intention of turning out for the squad. Although a few likely candidates have been mentioned, it need not be said that none of these positions have been settled. Another loss which was sustained not only by the team but by the college as a whole, was that of Capt. George Weems, who for four years was head of the R.O.T.C. department here, and during his stay here was wrestling coach. No definite action has yet been taken to procure his successor, although according to Captain Garrison, Professor Cummings, who has been added to the faculty as professor of English, has had a good deal of experience as a wrestler, and may consent to coach this year’s team. The schedule, not quite complete at this time, will contain six major meets as well as several minor ones with the Y.M.C.A.’s of surrounding towns. The tentative schedule is as follows:

Feb. 11—V.M.I., at Lexington, Va.
Feb. 13—William and Mary, at Lexington, Va.
Feb. 18—University N.C., place tentative.
Feb. 25—Duke, at Durham, N.C.
Feb. 27—State, at Raleigh, N.C.
March 3—Vanderbilt, at Davidson, N.C.

QUARTET ORGANIZED
(Continued from page one)

by Professor Cullum to fit its membership for positions in direction at boys’ camps, clubs, evangelistic services and other community enterprises. He will strive to develop musical talent and a finer appreciation of the technique and selection of material. Membership to this class is open to all members of the student body. Since Professor Cullum has very generously consented to give his time and effort in undertaking this enterprise, it is expected that many members of the student body will regularly attend each meeting of this class. The class will meet at 8:30 Thursday evenings in Professor Cullum’s classroom. Davidson men are very fortunate in being offered an opportunity to study under a musician of Mr. Cullum’s ability. In the offer of these activities, there is an opportunity for musical and social self-development. The need for trained men to direct singing at religious and public functions is a pressing one and the wholehearted backing of this enterprise by the student body is desired.

OPPONENTS’ SCORES
Florida, 26; Southern, 7.
N.C. State, 39; Elon, 0.
Wake Forest, 9; U.N.C., 8.
V.M.I., 22; Richmond, 0.
Duke, 7; Furman, 13.

Teams of State to Meet Good Outfits

The fall sport season this year will be featured by many gridiron classics. The Wildcats play their part of the leading teams in the state and also invade three foreign states in the quest of fame, laurels, and suitable opponents. Representatives of Florida, Virginia, and South Carolina will have a convincing sample of the kick of the Wildcat before the season is over. It is thought that a Georgia team will be annexed to the schedule for next year. The following is a list of the football dates, giving the place and competing elevens of the most outstanding grid contests of the South:

Oct. 1—Davidson-Florida, at Gainesville; Carolina-Tennessee, at Chapel Hill; N.C. State-Furman, at Greenville.
Sept. 30—Wake Forest-Elon, at Wake Forest; Duke, no game; Virginia-Georgia, at Athens; W.L.-West Virginia, at Charleston, W.Va.; Georgia-Virginia, at Athens; Georgia-Tech-V.M.I., at Atlanta; Alabama-Southwestern, at Tuscaloosa.
Sept. 30—Vanderbilt-Ouachita, at Asheville; V.M.I.-Georgia, at Atlanta.
Oct. 8—U.N.C.-Maryland, at Chapel Hill; N.C. State-Clemson, at Raleigh; Wake Forest-P.C., at Asheville.
Oct. 7—Duke-W.&L., at Lexington, Va.; Davidson-Wofford, at Spartanburg; Virginia-South Carolina, at Charlottesville; W.&L.-Duke, at Lexington, Va.; Georgia-Yale, at New Haven; Georgia Tech-Tulane, at Atlanta; Alabama-L.S.U., at Birmingham; Vanderbilt-Center, at Nashville; V.M.I.-Roanoke, at Lexington.
Oct. 15—Davidson-Elon, at Davidson; U.N.C.-U.S.C., at Columbia; N.C. State-Wake Forest, at Raleigh.
Oct. 13—Duke-Richmond, at Durham; Virginia-V.M.I., at Charlottesville; W.&L.-Princeton, at Princeton; Georgia-Furman, at Athens; Alabama-Georgia Tech, at Atlanta; Vanderbilt-Texas, at Dallas; V.M.I.-Virginia, at Charlottesville.
Oct. 22—Davidson-Wake Forest, at Greensboro; U.N.C.-Georgia Tech, at Atlanta; N.C. State-Florida, at Tampa; Duke-Navy, at Annapolis; Va.-V.P.I., at Charlottesville; W.&L.-Kentucky, at Lexington, Ky.; Ga.-Auburn, at Columbus; Ga. Tech-Carolina, at Atlanta; Alabama-Sewanee, at Birmingham; Vanderbilt-Tulane, at Nashville; V.M.I.-Maryland, at Richmond.
Oct. 29—Davidson-V.M.I., at Davidson; U.N.C.-State, at Raleigh; Wake Forest-Duke, at Wake Forest; Va.-Tennessee, at Knoxville; W.&L.-Maryland, at College Park; Ga.-Tulane, at New Orleans; Ga. Tech-Notre Dame, at South Bend; Alabama-Miss. Aggies, at Tuscaloosa; Vanderbilt-Kentucky, at Nashville.
Nov. 5—U.N.C.-V.M.I., at Lexington, Va.; Davidson-State, at Greensboro; Wake Forest-Furman, at Greenville; Duke, no game; Va.-W.&L., at Lexington, Va.; Ga.-Florida, at Jacksonville; Ga. Tech-Vanderbilt, at Nashville; Alabama-Kentucky, at Birmingham.
Nov. 12—Davidson-Carolina, at Chapel Hill; State-Duke, at Durham, Nov. 14; Wake Forest-Quantico, at Richmond, Nov. 11; Duke-State, at Durham, Nov. 11; Virginia-Maryland, at Charlottesville; W.&L.-V.P.I., at Blacksburg; Georgia-Clemson, at Athens; Ga. Tech-L.S.U., at Atlanta; Alabama-Florida, at Montgomery; Vanderbilt-Tennessee, at Knoxville; V.M.I.-Kentucky, at Charleston, W.Va.
Nov. 19—Davidson, no game; Carolina-Duke, at Durham; State, no game; Wake Forest-High Point, at Wake Forest; Virginia, no game; W.&L., no game; Georgia-Mercer, at Athens; Ga. Tech-Oglethorpe, at Atlanta; Alabama, no game; Vanderbilt-Maryland, at Nashville; V.M.I., no game.
Thanksgiving—Davidson-Duke, at Davidson; Carolina-Virginia, at Chapel Hill; State-South Carolina, at Columbia; Wake Forest-Mercer, at Asheville; W.&L.-Florida, at Jacksonville; Georgia-Alabama, at Birmingham; Ga. Tech-Auburn, at Atlanta; Vanderbilt-Sewanee, at Nashville; V.M.I.-V.P.I., at Roanoke.

On December 3, Vanderbilt plays Alabama at Birmingham, and Georgia plays Georgia Tech at Atlanta.

Strength from endeavor springs from endeavor, and grows as the endeavor grows.