4 — THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. .......... Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES ............ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. LINGLE .................. Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN ........ Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS ............... Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB ............... Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY ............... Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN ............... Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON ............... Assignment Editor
P. F. JONES ............... Feature Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS ........ Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD ........ Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE ........ Assistant Business Manager
J. A. McALPINE ........ Subscription Manager
J. L. ALBRIGHT ........ Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY ........ Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
T. T. JONES ............... President
A. N. BROWN ............... Vice-President
C. R. LAKE ............... Secretary-Treasurer
W. H. BAILEY
J. P. McBRYDE
TYREE DILLARD
B. F. McQUEEN
J. L. ELY
W. K. PRITCHETT
J. R. GRAHAM
E. WILSON
JOHN GWIN
W. R. WEAVER
R. C. GRADY
L. C. WADSWORTH
R. H. KANE
JOHN MORIARTY
J. P. McKNIGHT

EDITORIAL

Hugh Arrowood, newly-elected president of the student body, will assume the toga of his high office within a few weeks, and his inauguration will be the signal for a re-dedication of all students to the ideals and tenets of the Davidson student-government system. Hugh is a man who deserves the high tribute that his election carries with it, and, accorded the proper support by his fellows, he will bear well the responsibilities of his new office.

Forceful measures recently adopted in New York toward a cleansing of the stage are being felt throughout the nation. In every town and city, where theaters abound, self-appointed censors are arising to condemn the indecency of the modern drama—police are stopping shows—while producers and actors are being hailed into the criminal courts to answer to charges of obscenity and vulgarity. This latest reaction against prurient tastes has followed close on the heels of a similar move to eliminate the indecent art magazines from our news-stands, and to raise journalism above the level of damaging sensationalism. Everywhere people are rejoicing that at last the pendulum has started its backward swing, and that there is a prospect of saving the world from the vulgar and immoral tendencies which have gripped it since the close of the great war. Their optimism is only partly justified.

This is not the first time in the last few years that a seemingly outraged public has demanded reform and censorship of the stage. Various experiments have been tried, including the play-jury system, which despite the praise which followed its inauguration some years ago, failed miserably in its efforts to curb obscenity on the modern stage. The present-day musical comedy, and revue, with their predominance of jazz and nudity, stand as bold reminders that censorship efforts of the past have failed dismally.

It is difficult to understand just why the authorities have made this sudden move to clean the stage. Without denying lofty intentions, one must admit that police censorship of drama in the past has proved absurd. Theaters which have been raided, plays which have been banned, actors and actresses who have been charged with indecency have lived to enjoy renewed popularity. Censorship thus far has only advertised the vulgar and obscene play, and, peculiarly enough, the general public has been anxious to crowd the theaters where a departure from the conventional standards of propriety has been advertised.

We are convinced that the great mass of the people are interested, and for the most part will patronize the clean human plays. But, there is a minority, which demands seats for the obscene performance, and until this minority can be educated to better tastes, we can neither expect producers to raise the standards of their offerings, nor can we hope for any lasting good from censorship. The threat of censorship, it is true, will make the purveyors of the prurient more careful for a time, but the endurance of the reform will depend largely upon the public itself. The very fact that of the plays of New York for which there has been a considerable demand for seats, eight were so vulgar and indecent as to be offensive to persons of ordinary moral tastes, demonstrates the fact that the theater-going public is at least partly to blame. “There is a question as to whether the theater has debauched the people or the people debauched the theater,” says the Indianapolis News.

In these days when the modern university has taken upon itself the responsibility of training many young men and women for a life work in drama, it would seem wise that our higher institutions of learning should also endeavor to create and foster an interest in real drama even among students who have no idea of making the theater a profession. If we would clean up the stage, we must start at the right place. As long as the public flocks to see indecent burlesques and music revues, we cannot blame the producers and the actors. A public of higher moral tastes will demand a higher type of drama.

CAROLINA’S REBELLION

At the University of North Carolina, 13 students have been suspended for gambling by the student-council, following repeated warnings by the president of the student-body. An enraged group of students have demanded that the action of the council, in suspending violators of the student code, be referred to the student-body, believing, perhaps, that the members of the student-body will reverse the decision of the Council and permit the violators to remain in college.

The demand for a setting aside of the University’s student-council decision is based principally on the belief that witnesses were coerced into giving evidence against the suspended students, and also that the punishment inflicted by the council is too severe. To an outsider, who is unacquainted with the case beyond the reports appearing in the student newspaper of the University, this demand by certain members of the Carolina student-body is regrettable. It can quite naturally result in only one of the two things; either a ratification of the council’s action, or a setting aside of its decision—and in either instance the student-government is weakened, and is the principal loser. The students of the University are called upon to either endorse gambling or to endorse the action of their Council. Gambling is forbidden by the laws of the University.

Keeping One’s Head in College (Don’t Fall Prey to Chaos of Campus Life)
By WILLIAM APPLE BAUM

The aim of university, in addition to offering professional training, should be to cultivate the mind. Unfortunately, our universities are founded upon materialistic ideals; factories where professionals are trained. And with what are these professionals equipped when they leave the universities? They are equipped with a mass of facts and a materialistic moral sense of justice. They are equipped with such weapons that they may best, in a “business” way, outwit those who have not the skill and power resultant from a college professional training.

Now let us look into the camp of the student-body. We have already seen that the average student comes to college to acquire a professional training, and he is sure to get such training if he will only apply himself. Still we find that on the whole the students do not apply themselves and that they are somewhat displeased with the education and type of instruction they receive. Such dissatisfaction is seen very strongly amongst freshmen, and a great deal less so amongst seniors. This is due partly to the fact that the former are not well acquainted with the university, while the latter are. But the dissatisfaction is also due to the lack of the personal touch between the professors and the students. The freshmen, before they acclimate themselves to the campus environment, feel the cold, inhuman, speedy business atmosphere of the university, and it does not, as a rule, appeal to them. At first the students feel an unconscious reaction to the entire university system, but they soon learn to fit themselves into their surroundings. Thus they learn to get along. However, they soon find out what is what. And so they learn that credits and honor points are the main things which count towards securing the diploma. The students learn that it is considered a greater honor to be on the football team than to be an “A” student. The students realize that the university is but a place of business—this and nothing more. So what they do is quite natural; they employ the business moral sense of justice, and cheat whenever they can. And being dissatisfied, more or less, most students do as little studying as they possibly can and “get by.” Then when the finals come, they complain and cram, cram and swear. They overload their brains with excessive doses of facts—facts which they should have learned through the course—and immediately after they hand in the final examination papers, they forget them.the Carolina student-government association, repeated warnings have been made by the President of the Council that offenders, if apprehended, would be suspended—and, now, regardless of how the evidence was secured, the violators deserve the penalty inflicted by the governing board. Students, who attend a college at the sacrifice of their parents, are not to be treated with favoritism when they violate both the rules of the University and the human code of morals. By their very action, they forego all hope of consideration at the hands of their fellows. They have injured themselves, but, more than that, they have injured all the other students who compose the University upon which they have brought general disfavor by their breach of honor. One dissenter at Carolina would have the action of the council set aside, simply because he feels that there are other offenders who have not been apprehended. He feels it unfair that one violator should be suspended, when another manages to escape detection. His argument is without support, either by historical precedence or legal experiences. No court in this land of ours would be justified in acquitting one law violator, simply because other violators had not been brought to justice. Imagine the chaos of our government if every violator against the Eighteenth Amendment was given his freedom, simply because the government was conscious of the fact that it had not been able to place all similar violators under arrest. It is to be regretted that members of the student body at Carolina have to be coerced into supporting their student government, but if they do, the Council, in its efforts to maintain the Honor System, certainly seems justified in such coercion. It is generally believed that students at a University, of the outstanding caliber claimed for North Carolina, will not let prejudices and a false sense of human sympathy cause them to endorse the actions of men, guilty of reflecting discredit upon themselves and upon the University.

A good automobile, a glass of gin, a woman, and a game of poker will fill all their needs! And so it goes on! When the fall comes, the alumni visit their school, and in order to show their loyalty, attend the football games, bet on their team, and cheer with the mad ecstasy of a savage as the heroes make a play. The students go on cramming and complaining. The professors continue to put many students—students who for some reason do not sleep much at night—to sleep with their dry lectures. The fraternities, dances, balls, games, and snake dances continue to remain the current topics of discussion in the mouths of most students. Football heroes are still being worshipped, and girls still continue to come to college in search of husbands. All this goes to make up the life of the university students, the system of education, and the purpose and aim of our universities. Now, in the face of all the above facts, what should the student who comes to the university with the desire to learn the deeper secrets of happiness do? What should the student who has an individuality do in order to preserve his individuality in this educational mill? Such a student is confronted with a great task. He has to fit himself in with those who come for social life. He has to fit himself in with those who come to find husbands. Is it possible for anyone to fit himself in with all these types, and still retain his individuality? No. This is impossible! To fit oneself into a system is to accept that system as good, and do as everyone else in it does. This may mean death to individuality. What then can such a student do? There is no complete solution, but he can find compensations. He can do many things. He can keep his eyes and ears open, and learn more through observation and reflection than any teacher can give him. He can find student friends who have views and opinions similar to his. He can try to win the friendship of intelligent and broad-minded instructors. A small group of such men and women are always to be found at every university. There is always a group of instructors on every campus who wish to help the student in his search for truth. Such teachers always have something worthwhile to offer, and it is from them that he can learn things worth more than the knowledge of twenty texts. From the rest of the instructors, who are nothing but an army of comma catchers, dogmatists, or parrots repeating dates and facts, formulae and laws, which they have memorized in the course of decades, the student cannot expect more than “patented” knowledge. Let him take this knowledge and exercise his own reason upon it. As a result of these contentions, it would seem that there are some things which it would be well for a student to know. And so in conclusion, I will say that he should know what the aim of the university is, for what people come to the university and why so, and what he should do if he wishes to retain and develop his individuality. The result will be that he will find no trouble in keeping his head in college, and above all, his education will be tenfold!—The Reflector.

COLLEGE EDUCATION

College education is now two things that it used not to be—it is rapid and it looks to making the mind efficient rather than the mind’s adornment. Students come from all classes in the community and will take their training into a hundred diverse employments. What type of college man succeeds in after life? My feeling is that he is not the chap who was into everything, a hail fellow well met, receiver of the medal presented to the most popular student. He is apt to be a man who is not devoid of sociability and careful to keep himself in good trim physically. It is easy to be drawn so deep into student activities that a man feels he owes them primary allegiance. As a matter of fact, a few years later on, one of his fellows can remember who held that office. Student activities are, taken by and large, the greatest time wasters in college, even ahead of laziness. They give very little in return for the hours spent in their service. —Sinclair Lewis, in Baltimore Sun.

Davidson will send representatives to more different sections of the country this spring than ever before. The tennis team will journey to New York for a match with Colgate and other eastern colleges; the Track Team will be represented in the Tech Relays in Atlanta; the debating team has scheduled contests with colleges as far north as Rutgers in New Jersey; and the baseball team will visit practically every state in the southeast, stopping in Atlanta for two games with Oglethorpe University. This expansion in the schedule of our athletic and debating teams assures the college of much valuable advertisement beyond the boundaries of the Carolinas, to which we have so long confined ourselves.

With all the overly-brilliant and overly-sensitive prodigies of our high schools and colleges committing suicide, there is distinct relief in a news item which tells us that a 17-year-old negro convict in Durham, N. C., recently joined the youthful throng of self-murderers. Maybe it doesn’t take so much intellect and so much soul to see the “futility” of life, after all.

Beyond a natural regret that college audiences cannot act civilized, we are glad to learn that Davidson students are not the only ones who scream, whistle, and stomp during the performances of visiting artists. At Salem College, the students are being reprimanded by the editors of their paper, for what they term “riotous, and barbaric behavior” during a recent Davidson Glee Club performance there. It is to be hoped that the Salem girls will show a favorable response to the plea for more courtesy, but we must assure the bad little girls that their lively conduct did not interfere with the Davidson boys. Unfortunately, our students are accustomed to such misbehavior.

Eight men competing for a place on a debating team that only two men could make—a number of students voluntarily dropping by to hear the preliminaries—members of the faculty, besides those acting as judges, sitting through the tedious arguments! That’s what happened here recently—and yet, we hear on every hand that college students are losing their interest in the scholastic and literary enterprises.