THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1927

COMMON CAMPUS FALLACY IS DISPROVED BY DOCTOR SMITH

According to the sixth chapter of “Your Biggest Job, School or Business,” a manual for students, published by D. Appleton
& Co., the oft-repeated and widely-believed statement that the man who leads his class in college is generally a failure
in after life, is a dangerous campus fallacy. Dr. Henry Louis Smith, former President of Davidson College, in a pamphlet
issued by the Washington and Lee University, prints this untrue tradition which is sweetened with a little truth and flavored
with counterfeit logic:

“To attain success in the fierce warfare of modern business demands pluck, self-confidence, red-blooded vitality, and a knowledge of men
and things, rather than book-learning and abstract scholarship. In fact, the students who make the very highest grades are not
so apt to win promotion and success in later life as their wiser comrades who refuse to spend more time
in study than is necessary to make reasonably fair grades, and are thereby enabled to participate more vigorously in the
social and athletic activities of the playground and campus.”

To the lazy and self-indulgent, to the social dudes and tin-horn sports and overgrown children, to all who long to
study less and play more, says Dr. Smith, this theory is as fascinating as poisoned candy in a kindergarten. It
not only excuses neglect of duty but crowns the loafer as a man of far-seeing wisdom. What wonder, asks Dr.
Smith, that in many student circles it is a most questioned part of the college creed and campus opinion looks
down with mingled pity and contempt on “studies,” “digs,” “grinds,” and “scholastic cranks.”

The truth is that those who outstrip their indolent or brainless competitors in college continue to do so when college
days are over, and to win high scholarship honors in a first-class college is almost a guarantee of success in
life. To prove this statement Dr. Smith cites one of many impartial investigations. In 1911, Dr. Paul Van Dyke made
a careful study of scholarship records and future history of nearly 9,000 graduates of five typical colleges to see how
many of them had attained such prominence as to be placed in “Who’s Who,” a list of distinguished Americans published
annually by Marquis & Co., of Chicago.

Mr. Van Dyke's study of the Harvard records covered 13 successive senior classes, numbering 2,229 men, of whom only 75
won the very highest scholarship honors. Of these 75, 59 were living in 1911 and 27 of them were listed
in Who’s Who of that year, about one in two. At Yale the senior classes numbered 2,132, with 102 first
honor men, of whom the 80 living in 1911 furnished 31 of the Who's Who list. The seniors of Princeton,
Amherst, and Brown University also showed about the same percentage. Thus from 7,979 men representing the men of different universities,
four percent (348) were singled out by their having attained high honors. Omitting 79 of this four percent who were
at that time still too young to hope to attain distinction, one-half of the men were on the Who’s Who
list which contains only one-fifty-fifth percent of the population of the land.

To sum it up from another point of view: The man who graduates with the highest of scholastic honors, instead
of being unfitted for success by his extra “book-learning” is about seven times as likely to become a distinguished man
than the “all-round man” who receives his diploma with him. In this age of mind, as never before, knowledge is
power.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Biology Club Honor Issued to Six Men

The Biology Club recently extended bids to the following students: F. D. Daniel, T. T. Jones, J. W. Melton, J.
M. Sample, W. K. Forbes, G. H. McSwain. These men were selected for this honor because of their scholarship and
general interest in biological research, however, they must write a paper on some approved subject relating to Biology that will
be accepted by a committee appointed by the club. The subject may be chosen from a list of topics furnished
by the club. Most of the members are Juniors and Seniors who have taken several courses in Biology. The purpose
of the Biology Club is to increase the interest in Biology and the knowledge of that science. It is one
of the 12 honorary fraternities at Davidson. It is now striving for national recognition.

He—“What do you do when you are kissed?”
She—“I yell.”
He—“Would you yell if I kissed you?”
She—“No, I’m still hoarse from last night.”—Blue Gator.A man is drunk when he feels sophisticated and can’t pronounce it—Denison Flamingo.

Dr. John Wilson MacConnell, ’02, was a recent speaker at the Armistice celebration at Mooresville, N. C.

The man who knows is the man who leads. Thus the author has pointed out with conclusive proof that the
star student, as current falsehood would have it, does not make a failure in the world.

Current Issue of “The New Age” Praises Work of “Old Clothes Lady”
Mrs. Mary Martin Sloop Commended for Sacrifice

FOUNDS CROSSNORE SCHOOL
Thriving Community is Result of Sale of Old Clothes Contributed by Friends

In the current issue of The New Age, there is a story which will be of special interest to the
students of Davidson College. It tells of the splendid sacrificial work being done in a section of western North Carolina
mountains by Mrs. Mary Martin Sloop, who is the sister of Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson College.

In 1913, Mrs. Sloop, now lovingly known to the mountain people as the “old clothes lady,” went to Crossnore, a
little mountain settlement, which according to the census, then had but 23 inhabitants. This little place in the heart of
the hills was, before her coming, inaccessible and backward, but it is now a thriving progressive community with a $50,000
school plant, two churches, a post office, electric lights, a co-operative cheese factory, good roads, a community club, a ball-ground,
and a trained nurse. These conditions, which are such a marked improvement over those prevailing when Mrs. Sloop went to
Crossnore, have all been brought about with the sale of old clothes. Mrs. Sloop received these cast-off garments from friendly
helpers from all over the country, and selling them to the people, she uses the proceeds to build schools and
to better living conditions.

This plan originated when Mrs. Sloop sold some old clothes sent to her by Boston friends in order to send
a young girl off to school. The system has grown and has been the power behind the bettered conditions of
the Crossnore people.

FOOTBALL FOLLOWERS FLOCK TO FAVORITE FIELDS OF FIRE

While the Wildcats were losing the state football championship for 1927, the old back lot of the armory was turning
out its stars for next year’s championship team. Campus football is now in the beginning of its season, provided the
old football holds out for a few more weeks. Among the old college traditions will stand campus football. It is
the system of passing, catching, and touching. Four downs are allowed one team to make the length of the field,
and a drop kick from any position counts a point if kicked over the opponent's goal-line. Such is the technique
of the age-old game handed down, perhaps, from the Romans, directly to our dear boys at Davidson College. The game
mystifies, and “tearifies” even the hardest and best dressed. A little more advanced than last year's game, it has besides
the individual stars, a team that claims to be the champions.

Last year 400 children were taught in the school; 80 were enrolled in the high school, and seven of the
ten who graduated are now in college. The boys and girls after the second year, pay their way through college.
They learn their practical trades there that will make them fitted for worthwhile lives.

Some of the individual stars may feel a little slighted, but it would hardly do to leave out a few
names who appear in “Snooks” Kilgore, the redoubtable, a passer unexcelled in the game; Hal Johnson, a student and a
flashy captain of one team or the other; McGavock, who slings his passes with the accuracy of his marksmanship in
the gym; Bud Guthery, conspicuous for his height and the fact that he is a lengthy stepper; and Frontis Johnson,
whose nimbleness converts wild flings from his teammates into points. Nothing daunts these fearless men, and they believe in, “nothing
ventured, nothing won.”

The “All-Stars,” undefeated, have met and vanquished two teams by decisive scores. They took Moore's flashes into camp for a
35-6 win in their first game. They have also defeated the Wonders 74-12. The All-Stars, who will meet all challengers,
have a line-up as follows: Ends, DeCamp and Smith; tackles, Kilgore and Pepper; guards, Rusk and Moffatt; center, Lafferty; quarterback,
Martin; fullback, Gardner; halfback, Frontis Johnson; and halfback, Bill McGavock (C).

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE
The S & W Cafeterias are catering to you (ATLANTA Soon) ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

Chesterfield smokers don’t change with the fashions.
