6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 15, 1927

Brig.-General of U.S. Cavalry Was Davidson Student in 1890

A War Department dispatch, appearing in newspapers throughout the nation early last June, carried notice of the approval by President
Calvin Coolidge of the promotion of Col. George C. Barnhardt, ex-1890, to be a Brigadier General in the cavalry. General
Barnhardt succeeded Brigadier General Malvern-Hill Barnum, who was promoted at the same time to the position of major general.

General Barnhardt entered Davidson with the class of 1890, but withdrew to enter the United States Military Academy, from which
he was graduated in 1892. Upon the completion of his course at West Point, General Barnhardt was commissioned a second
lieutenant in the Sixth U.S. Cavalry, and he served with that regiment until February, 1901. He was commissioned a captain
in the cavalry in February, 1901, and served as such until June, 1915. In May, 1916, he was commissioned a
major, and in July, 1917, a lieutenant colonel. Continuing with rapid advancement, he was commissioned a temporary colonel of the
Infantry in August, 1917, being promoted to the rank of temporary brigadier general on October 1, 1918. With the return
to pre-war conditions in 1919, General Barnhardt was returned to the pre-war rank of lieutenant colonel. He was advanced to
the rank of colonel on July 1, 1920.

The service record of General Barnhardt is a colorful one. He commanded a troop of the 6th Cavalry at the
Battle of Santiago, Cuba, in 1898 and served with the 6th Cavalry in the China Relief Expedition in 1900. He
afterwards served as captain and quartermaster at Fientain, China. During the Philippine insurrection and in the campaign against the Moros
at Lake Lanao in 1902, he served as a captain with the 15th U.S. Cavalry. He served on the Mexican
border during the troublesome days from 1913 through 1916, having been a member of the General Staff at Washington, D.C.,
in 1912. General Barnhardt was in charge of the Finance Division Depot at Washington during 1916 and 1917. He was
the organizer of the 329th Infantry of the 83rd Division and acted as supervisor of its training program at Camp
Sherman, Ohio, in 1917. He accompanied the division to France, but upon arrival on the French shores, he was transferred
to the 1st Division, and served at the front as commander of the 28th Infantry. His command occupied a sector
on the line north of Toul.

General Barnhardt commanded a regiment during both the St. Mihiel offensive in September, 1918, and in the Argonne-Meuse campaign, which
lasted from October 1st through the 11th, 1918. He was assigned to the 189th Brigade of the 89th Division, and
after the signing of the armistice he accompanied the brigade on its march into Germany. He returned to America in
1919. Among the decorations won by General Barnhardt during the World War is included a decoration by the French Government
for his services at St. Mihiel. He was also made an officer in the Legion of Honor, receiving the Croix
de Guerre with palm. Since returning to America in 1919, he has completed a course at the Army Staff School
at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and was designated to attend the Army Staff College in Washington from August, 1920, to June,
1921.

DAVIDSON MILITARY UNIT (Continued from page one)

The inspection of the R.O.T.C. throughout the United States takes place in the spring when the new men have been
whipped into their best condition. The inspection is conducted by three boards of two officers each. Each board has a
certain section of the United States to inspect. The school has to first be inspected by an officer of its
own area and recommended for inspection by the higher officials. Colonel Rowell recommended Davidson for inspection. After recommendation, the two
officers from the War Department at Washington inspect the unit. In the case of Davidson, these officers were Lieut. Col.
William S. Bowen and Captain Gallagher. The inspectors personally question the cadets as to their theoretical instruction and test them
as to practical work. The staff last spring planned a sham battle for the inspection committee, which battle was staged
with fine effect by Company “C.”

WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy See Us 26-28 S. College St. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

TODAY STROUSE & CO. DISPLAYED BY GALE HILYARD in the hotel lobby FRIDAY SATURDAY Charlotte, N.C.

banking needs. Government.

C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

The Commercial National Bank Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your 4% interest paid on
Certificate of Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Make us your Executor. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS

FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier Founded 1847 I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier M. T.
WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

Alumni and friends will be grieved to learn of the following deaths of prominent alumni of the college, which occurred
during the summer months:

John C. McCaskill

John Chesney McCaskill, ’05, died at his home in Maxton, N.C., on June 16th, following a lingering illness of ten
weeks. He was survived by his wife and five children.Mrs. McCaskill, before her marriage, was Miss Jean McCall, of Bennettsville,
S.C. Mr. McCaskill was born November 16, 1882, and attended both Davidson and N.C. State Colleges. He was a member
of the Knights of Pythias and also the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity.

Samuel Fowle Telfair, '84
Samuel Fowle Telfair, ’84, a native of Washington, N.C., and a resident of Raleigh, N.C., since 1889, died at the
Rex Hospital, in the latter city, on June 16th, following a surgical operation performed several days previously. Major Telfair was
born on the 13th of October, 1863. He was the son of Thomas Telfair and his wife, Sarah Fowle, both
being members of prominent Beaufort county families. After some preliminary schooling, he entered Davidson College in 1878 and graduated therefrom
with the degree of bachelor of arts in 1884. In 1889 he was private secretary to his uncle, Judge Daniel
G. Fowle, who had been elected governor of North Carolina. So acceptable were his services that he was retained as
secretary by the two successors to Governor Fowle, Governors Holt and Carr. In addition to his position as private secretary
to three governors, he held the rank of military secretary to the commander-in-chief of North Carolina with the rank of
major. He was prominent in the social life of Raleigh, and was secretary of the Capitol Club for a number
of years. He was engaged in mercantile pursuits, being connected with the W.E. McKay Co., of New York, at the
time of his death. He is survived by his wife and three children.

John W. Todd, '79
John Wells Todd, ’79, prominent business man of Laurens, died at his summer home in Montreat, on July 3rd, after
being in failing health for many years. His remains were shipped to Laurens, where they were interred. Mr. Todd was
an elder in the First Presbyterian Church of Laurens. He is survived by his wife and three sons: John, Jr.,
Albert, and James.

William I. Witherspoon, '85
William I. Witherspoon, ’85, beloved philanthropist of York, S.C., died at a Charlotte, N.C., hospital on July 6th, after an
illness of two weeks. For many years Mr. Witherspoon had given to charity his entire income except that needed for
living expenses, and he was known and beloved by the entire citizenry of York. He was the son of the
late Judge I.D. Witherspoon, prominent York county attorney and jurist. He was a ruling elder in the Presbyterian Church and
a member of the York Masonic lodge. He is survived by a sister, Miss Leslie Witherspoon.

Edward J. Hill, '78
Edward J. Hill, '78, former consul general to Montevideo, Uruguay, law partner at one time to the late Franklin K.
Lane, and for many years one of Durham’s most active and best-known residents, died at his residence in Durham, N.C.,
on June 15th. He served in the State Legislature, after graduating from Davidson College and the University of North Carolina
law school and serving as a law partner of Mr. Lane in San Francisco for several years. Death followed an
operation and the contraction of pneumonia. He is survived by his wife and two brothers, Isham F. Hill and John
Sprunt Hill, both of Durham.

B. T. McBryde, '87
Benjamin T. McBryde, ’87, for more than a quarter of a century the head of the public school system of
Cumberland County, died at his home in Fayetteville, on May 31st. His death came as a surprise to friends and
relatives. On the evening previous he had attended a school commencement and showed no signs of illness. He was a
graduate of Davidson College, and had spent the major portion of his life in the eastern part of North Carolina,
where his work among the school children had won him a host of friends and admirers. He is survived by
his wife, eight brothers and sisters, and six step-children.

D. S. McEachern, '12
D. Shaw McEachern, '12, of St. Paul, died at the Oteen Hospital, in Fayetteville, N.C., on September 6th, after an
illness of several months. Mr. McEachern was a World War veteran, and was one of the crew of a ship
submarined off the coast of Spain. Friends and relatives attributed his fatal illness to this experience. He is survived by
his father and his mother, his wife, two children, and two brothers, Duncan and Neill McEachern, of St. Paul, N.C.
Friends will regret to learn of the death last week of the wife of Mr. Archie McEachern, ’07. They were
married in April.

ORTHO CREDENZA, $300.00
The New VICTROLA
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.
PHONIC
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY

Come to See Us for Your Shoes, Shirts, Ties, Hats, and Caps. New shipments received weekly: give us a trial.
Your business always appreciated.
THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.

To you men who are just entering the halls of learning for the first time, we extend an invitation to
drop in and see what is new and proper for campus wear. To upperclassmen we merely say, the Braeburns are
here.
$35 to $50
MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
