4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 P.M. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
A. N. BROWN Managing Editor
W. K. SPRECHER Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY Managing Editor
C. G. GREY Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS Associate Editor
W. B. WILSON Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH Alumni Editor
R. C. YOUNG Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL Assistant Business Manager
P. R. GARRISON Subscription Manager
B. L. DICKSON Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE Solicitor
E. H. McCALL Solicitor

Reporters’ Club
W. H. McPHAIL President
A. L. ELLIS Vice-President
R. J. ANDERSON Secretary-Treasurer
D. P. ANDERSON
R. W. McDERMID
W. H. BEST
W. B. McQUEEN
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D. MILES
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. PRATT
R. F. JARRARD
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LONG
W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

HALLOWE’EN

In a few days the most remarkable band of people on this earth or any other earth will gather together. Their convention is an annual affair and it is a glorious one. Already numerous forces all over the earth are planning for this great occasion. Pumpkins have been ripening on the vines, bright splotches of color against a dull and drab background. Witches are preparing their brooms for their annual “air derby”—eerie spirits are preparing their weird garments for the festivities. And one night they will all gather together, spirits of various shapes and forms will fill the air. Ghosts will take the earth by storm and have dominion over everyone until the sober light of dawn again awakes a weary world. In other words, Hallowe’en will be here next week to recall all of the delightful memories of childhood—another phantom out of the past to make us wish we still believed in fairies and Santa Claus.

It is quite natural that everyone here at Davidson will join in the spirit of the occasion and make merry as they have done every year on this date. All of us have too much of the child in us to fail to enter in this game of “play-like” and to believe that ghosts and witches do not exist after all. It is hoped however, that this playful spirit will not become vulgar and destructive as it has been known to do on several occasions. There is always someone who is thoughtless, who fails to remember anyone other than himself, and who ruins a joyful occasion by not stopping to consider some things which he should. The majority here hope sincerely that no scene such as has been seen some years will greet the eyes of the community on the morning after Hallowe’en. There have been times when the campus has been littered with unsightly trash, papers strewn over the grounds, and general evidence of thoughtlessness and vulgarity. It is pleasing to believe however, that these days have passed and that the present student body at Davidson is gentlemanly throughout. It is unbelievable that any man here would deliberately attempt to ruin the good name of the entire student body by attempting to destroy the beauty of the campus by spreading unsightly streamers and paper over every tree on the grounds. It would be bad enough if the students alone would see the destruction, but those contemplating any such rash actions should remember that there will be numerous visitors on the Hill next weekend, friends and alumni of the institution who would be grieved if anything regrettable occurred. If the Wildcats emerge from the football contest victorious it will be an added incentive for celebrating the occasion, but it should be celebrated in an orderly manner and not in a way which would reflect discredit on the college and its students.

There are very few who believe that the students will not control their tendencies towards exterior decorating next week, but it has occurred in the past and their deduction may be logical and justified. But if every man remembers others as well as himself there will be no disorderly scenes or any regrettable occurrences during the weekend.

CONGRATULATIONS!

The faculty committee in charge of the library is to be heartily congratulated on its latest decision in regard to the policy of the library. As has been announced, the library will remain open two hours and a half longer each day. This policy will be continued until Christmas at least, then the committee will decide whether or not it will be wise to continue it as a regular schedule. This new ruling means that the library will be accessible an hour and a half longer during the day and an hour later at night. This is very evidently a wise move since it gives a student a greater flexibility of schedule and will be far more convenient than the former policy. Davidson, as are numerous other schools, is a highly organized institution from the standpoint of student body activities. Many of these activities take up the time which has been the open hours for the library. From now on however, it is clear that more students will be able to make use of the facilities of the library and it will serve the college and the community more conspicuously than in former years.

The new system will relieve the congestion which is usually evident in the library after supper until the closing hour. Being open now for a much longer period, the students who now use the library regularly will be able to spend their allotted hours at different times, allowing others to use the facilities more freely. It is believed that the new system will meet with more favor with the student body than the old, due to the fact that the pleading for longer hours has come in a large measure from the students themselves. The questionnaire sent out last year revealed that this was the main criticism of the library, but since this criticism has been removed it is clear that the student body will be more interested in the library, and it will be more of a student library.

As stated before, the new system will prevail until the Christmas holidays; then if it is discovered that the new policy has aided the students and is successful it will continue. Since the students have asked for this new convenience, it is hoped that they will prove that it is necessary by using the longer hours and co-operating more heartily with the personnel of the library.

HOMECOMING

Next week will mark the annual return of the old grad to his Alma Mater. Next week Davidson will be host to a large crowd of friends and admirers. Homecoming Day, with a big football game on the Hill always draws the crowds. The present student body of Davidson should realize the responsibilities which will be incumbent upon them during this day and aid in every way to make the occasion a real homecoming for the alumni and a day of pleasure for the visitors. As well as these visitors, there will be friends and relatives of students on the Hill. Davidson has always had a reputation for gentlemanly conduct and courteous treatment of visitors and it is hoped that this tradition will be upheld next week. Today Davidson College belongs to the present student body but on Homecoming Day it will be the possession of the alumni by right of conquest. Every student here should realize that he must aid in giving information, making the guests enjoy themselves and treat them courteously in order that all may know that they are welcome. It will be the small things that will count on that day, little remarks and helpful advice which will make an impression on the visitors.

Through the aid of the alumni secretary the college is attempting to bind the alumnus to a closer relation with his Alma Mater. There are many who take an active interest in the progress of the school. But there are many who seem to have forgotten the institution from which they were graduated. A number of the latter will be back for the football game and the students should realize that they must aid the college in an attempt to bring these men in a closer relationship with the institution. An alumnus who is interested in his Alma Mater, who knows what she is doing, and what she needs to do that which she is not, is a valuable asset to that institution. The progress of a school is determined largely by this interest of the alumni. Homecoming is the one day in the year when there is a larger majority of old men on the Hill.Trans-Atlantic flights were brought close to the Carolinas for the first time when Colonel Charles Lindbergh came down from the air to visit Spartanburg. As usual, he was feted, banquetted, spoken to, and given a slight opportunity to speak back. To add distinction to the occasion, Colonel Lindbergh stated that he opposed any control of flights similar to his own by the government. “It opposes progress,” he said. Lines of strain and nervous exhaustion were apparent upon his face, which were not entirely due to the rain that marred the celebration. The American public makes much of its heroes and expects too much in return. The stated purpose of the Lindbergh tour is to further commercial aviation; the real purpose is to satisfy public curiosity.

While Lindbergh entertained Spartanburg, Miss Ruth Elder, another candidate for the position of the first woman to cross the Atlantic, steered her plane over eastern America and then over the Atlantic in a dash for Paris. Hours passed without news, her mother collapsed, and then word trickled through that she had fallen at sea and had been rescued by a Dutch liner. A broken oil line brought her battle with the elements to a close. Only one more plane, guided by another woman, awaits the favor of the weather for the ocean hop, thus bringing to a close the first season in this sport. All told, the Ocean Hoppers have battled less than .125, a poor percentage.

“Ours is a policy of reciprocity as regards tariff.” So spoke Seymour Lowman, newly inaugurated assistant secretary of the treasury and prohibition chief, in a statement to the press last week. The statement was made as a result of the rise in tariff on certain articles upon which the French had raised their import duties. It was made to a young reporter named Lodge, the grandson of Cabot Lodge. It would have gone unheralded except for the fact that it had been made without the approval of Mr. Lowman’s master mind, Mr. Mellon. Grandson Lodge discovered this and reported it. As a result, Mr. Lowman received a reprimand at the hands of Mr. Mellon; not his first. Only two weeks ago, the same Mr. Lowman published the statement that his arm sometimes grew weak from signing dismissals to the prohibition force. Mr. Mellon resented this publicity likewise. Mr. Lowman refuted both statements, but Grandson Lodge reiterated his report and established himself politically by saying that the days of Mr. Lowman are numbered. Every few months, some minor government official outgrows his position, exposes the “inside” to the public, and loses his job for the trouble. And this is a land of free speech.

Students at Gary, Indiana, vacated their high school recently as a protest to the admission of too many negro students. Formerly, only a few had been admitted, although admission is rightfully open to all. This year found fifteen or more taking courses. Parents backed the strike and refused to order their offspring back to classes. As a result, the city board of aldermen met to solve the situation. Upon the board sat three negroes and six whites duly elected. The whites advocated a temporary building for the negroes, a permanent one when funds were available. The negro element objected. Temporary and permanent were not defined clearly enough. A vote was taken. The whites won the game. Score six to three. Argument only strengthened prejudice again. One might argue either side with zeal. In the eyes of the law, all children are on the same footing. Yet the colored parent pays taxes.

In Chicago, Superintendent of Schools McAndrew is being ousted because of his opposition to Mayor “Bill” Thompson. McAndrew has preached against the Chicago administration in his schools. By careful manipulation, Mayor Thompson has obtained a favorable school board and had McAndrew hailed before the board on a charge of conspiracy to re-establish British rule in this country. A mock trial before a thrown jury is now going on. McAndrew sees the hopelessness of his cause and hopes to make a fool of Mayor Thompson as a dying stab at that dignitary (so-called). More Thompson blah.

Last week, a pretty young typist of London walked into the waters of the English Channel on the French side and swam out of sight. Later, she appeared on the English shore in record-breaking time. Britons hailed her as a hero and awarded her a prize. Two days later, she confessed that it was a hoax to show the criminal possibilities of channel swimming. As a reward for her trouble, the public booed her. The public does not like to be fooled. Yet it does not like to show that it can be fooled much better.

It is highly important, therefore, that the whole institution do all within its power to impress on these men that everyone is glad to have them back and is interested in them. In this way, they will become interested in the school and the students and use their influence to develop Davidson as fully as possible.

A BIT OF THIS and THAT
By HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

Clever young Anita Loos could not have known to what extremes this mania for blondes was destined to go, else I am sure she would have found other means of amusing herself on her transcontinental railway journey, at which time she is purported to have first conceived the theme of her muchly popular “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.” She, perhaps, never dreamed that the whimsicalities of her golden-haired heroine, Lorelei, would end with cultured men and women delving into the musty volumes of history in an effort to prove the veracity of her contention that polite men are partial to light-haired maidens.

But, look what followed the publication of her book. There was a mad rush for the apothecary shops of the nation. Peroxide sold at a premium—but, how it sold! Hairdressers, claiming miraculous abilities for transforming brunettes into blondes, found themselves swamped. Movie actresses appeared with golden tresses, where only brown locks had grown before—and it finally went so far that even Flo Ziegfeld confined his glorification of the American girl to blondes. There were those who believed that the maniacal fad would wear itself out and die—but, it still persists three years afterward. Constance Talmadge is the only one of the screen celebrities who has tired of her artificial goldy-locks and threatens to dye back a natural shade of brown. A thousand women, with a desire for a permanent wave, must now forego the pleasure of ever-curling locks, simply because they joined in the “Big Parade” to blondedom, and the electric curlers are dangerous when applied to hair once dyed.

But, a fellow could sort of stand all that—that is, until he found persons educated in the finer arts, giving credence to Anita Loos’ contention that “gentlemen prefer blondes.” Archivists and archeologists joined with Miss Loos in proclaiming the superiority of the blonde. It was brought to our attention in rapid succession that Fragonard, Rubens, Schurig, Titian, Paolo Veronese, Correggio, and all the other great painters had chosen the blonde for their most beautiful works of art. Eve was a blonde according to tradition, and the Talmud reveals that Lilith, Adam’s first wife, was likewise possessed of golden hair. Thus, reasons Blauvelt writing in a recent issue of The Mentor, “the human story began with two blonde women... and the blonde type has been a potent factor in making history ever since.”

We must accept without objection the declaration that Venus, most beautiful of womankind, was a blonde; for did not the poets sing of her as “the golden, sweet-smiling Aphrodite, who rules the hearts of men,” and did not Italian archeologists recently proclaim their discovery of a statue of Venus, excavated in the Libyan Desert, in the wavy folds of whose locks “still adhered some of the original yellow pigment used to color the hair of the statue.” It is claimed that Roman gentlemen of Caesar’s day showed an undeniable preference for light hair, and that it was not unusual for them to import great amounts of yellow hair from the German provinces with which to make wigs for their favorite mistresses.

And Shakespeare, peer of the bards, “had a definite preference for blondes,” says my informer, Mr. Blauvelt. Portia, whose “sunny locks hang on her temples like a golden fleece;” and gentle Rosalind; and Cordelia, daughter of Lear; were all possessed of golden tresses. Homer’s Odysseus had “beautiful yellow locks” and Calypso, his favorite nymph, was a “fair-haired powerful goddess.” So gentlemen prefer blondes. There can be no issue. Rather discouraging, when one has visualized himself as a gentleman, and yet finds that in all his life he has never been attracted by golden hair. Always, even now, it has been the brunette—well, maybe I’m not a gentleman—but, who is this Loos woman, anyhow?

If Napoleon coveted the blonde Mademoiselle Clary, it is certain that he finally married Josephine—“the irresponsible, passionate, dark Creole.” And, though he divorced her, he cried “Josephine, my excellent Josephine... to thee alone do I owe the only moments of happiness which I have enjoyed in this world.” Again, Josephine was not a blonde. But, Mary Queen of Scots and Marie Antoinette both were—and what happened to them—well, the guillotine is hardly the place for a lady to lose her head! And Helen of Troy, the blonde, was unfaithful to her husband Menelaus—and her infidelity brought on a war. And I despise wars. Be it the part of a gentleman, or no—a brunette today, tomorrow, forever—my choice. That’s all!