THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 15, 1927

SHOWING HOME OF LEES-McRAE STUDENTS

PICTURES WINTER SPORTS

Davidson in the spring of 1915, and later graduated from the Union Theological Seminary. He was pastor of a number
of Virginia churches, having come to the Falkland and Fountain Presbyterian churches upon call about four years ago. A wide
host of friends mourn his untimely death, which carried him from this life at the age of 44 years.

A recent news dispatch from Greenville, S. C., told of the death there on November 16th of Rev. L. Cook
Campbell, ’15, following an illness of three weeks from which pneumonia developed a few days prior to his death. Funeral
services were conducted from the Fountain Presbyterian Church and from there the remains were brought to Charlotte for burial at
his former home. Mr. Campbell was graduated from Davidson in the spring of 1915, and later graduated from the Union
Theological Seminary.

“Have you read any new books?”
“Don’t be silly. I live in Boston.”
— Dartmouth Jack o’Lantern.

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Founded 1874
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

Perhaps It Isn't Customary
But if you should be possessed with the idea of giving yourself a Christmas gift, we know of nothing you'd
like better than a BRAEBURN TUX. If you're skeptical about this custom... pass the idea to dad.
$40
MELLON’S
Charlotte, N.C.

Vagabonding a New Custom at Harvard
New York (By New Student Service)—Harvard's plan of educational “vagabonding” has been winning enthusiastic receptions in other colleges, with consequent
attempts by many college editors to bring about similar arrangements in their own institutions. The “vagabonding” is simply a matter
of attending interesting lectures in classes besides those in which the student is registered. To enable the students to choose,
the Harvard Crimson daily publishes a directory of worthwhile lectures, from which the students make their choice. Harvard students had
long followed this program, but their daily has crystallized the practice into an extra-curricular activity.

President C. C. Little, of the University of Michigan, while recognizing the excellent scholastic motives behind vagabonding, predicts that “it
is likely to have disastrous effects if carried to the extreme.” If not permitted to interfere with regular class work,
he views it as legitimate.

TENNESSEE DORMITORY
Near the close of the meeting the nominating committee gave its report, proposing the same set of officers, who were
unanimously elected. They are W. B.Taylor, Jr., ’08, president; I. P. Graham, '08, vice-president, and S. Reid Sloan, '23, secretary-treasurer.

Wildcat Gridders Feast at Dutch Lunch—Second Banquet This Year

Last Saturday night the Rowan County Alumni Association held its annual fall meeting, and as a feature, they entertained the
Davidson Wildcat football team, coaches, and other officials of the college. The affair was in the form of a supper,
given in the dining rooms of the Dutch Lunch at 7 o'clock. The liveliness of the occasion was added to
by the glee club quartet, composed of Thompson, Mobley, Lowrance, and Thompson. McSwain was a fifth member of the glee
club present, and the five gave several numbers which were appreciated by the gathering. They also led in the singing
of “O Davidson.”

Talks were made by Coaches Younger and Tilson, W. W. Wood, graduate manager; F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college,
and Ernest Milton, alumni secretary. The association had as special guests the president of Catawba College and representatives from Carolina,
Duke, and Wake Forest. These were introduced by W. B. Taylor, Jr., ’08, president of the organization and presiding officer.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE

Battalion Reviewed Honoring Capt. Otto

Capt. J. A. Otto, on last Wednesday, was tendered the honor of a review by the R. O. T. C.
battalion in recognition of his promotion from lieutenant to captain. Captain Otto is the latest addition to the staff of
officers of the R. O. T. C. unit at Davidson.

The competition drill among the platoons is still holding quite a bit of interest in all the companies. This competition
drill will continue until some time in the spring, at which time the platoon having the largest number of points
will be rewarded in some way by the department. The order of the platoons in the review of December 7th
was: 1st, first platoon of Company A; 2nd, third platoon of Company B; 3rd, first platoon of Company C. So
far, the first platoon of Company A, which is commanded by Lieutenant Lowrance, is in the lead with sixteen points.
Lieutenant Glenn’s second platoon of Company B follows with eleven points to its credit. Third place is practically tied for
by several platoons who are somewhat behind the leaders.

On, Wisconsin!

Jack McGrath gives a vivid picture of Wisconsin in the January College Humor. All about its students, fraternities, problems, its
great and near-great.

Other special features include Back to Mother by Wallace Irwin, a complete novelette of two young people which shows all
the tenderness and dismay of the first year of marriage.

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks

Peter B. Kyne’s first story for this magazine appears. Grantland Rice writes on All-Americans of All Time, and there are
many others. $2,000 art contest closes Jan. 15, 1928. Important announcement in College Humor following issue. Send drawings now!

Sheaffer Pens and Pencils, Seal Stationery, Pennants and Pillows, Wildcat Belts, Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C.
