THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1927

MINISTERIAL BAND

Personal

Dr. Vander Meulen, president of the Louisville Theological Seminary, spoke at the regular weekly meeting of the Ministerial Band last Sunday afternoon. His topic was based on Christ’s choosing of his twelve disciples. This subject proved very interesting to the members who are planning as their life work the task of teaching the gospel of Christ. Dr. Vander Meulen told the band that a minister could be the greatest force for good in all the earth. Christ, in his teaching and choosing of his disciples, knew the value and force of a small group. Christ taught them by close personal contact and prayer.

G. G. Davis, the new president of the organization, led the meeting.

Hon. J. G. Richards, who is a brother of Dr. C. M. Richards of the Davidson College faculty, was inaugurated two weeks ago as Governor of South Carolina. Dr. C. M. Richards was present and took part in the exercises.

Professional Notices

Phones: Office, 588. Residence, 65-J

DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance
Commercial National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays 12 to 2

Dr. Frank Sharp, ‘10, recently broke his leg and sprained his wrist in an automobile accident near Greensboro. Dr. Sharpe lives in Greensboro and was on his way back from a meeting of a medical association when the accident occurred.

Rev. E. D. Brown, '93, has moved from China Grove to Statesville, N. C.

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-J

Rev. John R. Hay, ’10, has changed his address from Clover, S. C., to Hickory, N.C.

Mr. W. F. Milburn, ’10, manager of the Address-o-graph Company and whose office is in Atlanta, recently sent to the Alumni Secretary 700 tags for address-o-graph plates. The secretary is thereby enabled to prepare his addresses according to cities and make better plans for the organization of more alumni associations. Mr. Milburn is one of the most loyal alumni and this contribution is appreciated.

DR. G. A. LAZENBY
DENTIST
Statesville, N. C.
Phone 494

Lance Quality Products
All dealers
LANCE PACKING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Delivered same day made.

If you had a fire you would call the fire department to get competent men and machinery to help you. For the same reasons call this agency and get prompt and competent insurance service.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McAlister Carson, Mgr. ('13)
M. B. Speir, Jr. ('26)

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Drinks Candy Smokes
Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N. C.

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Founded 1847

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

Warren Cox Writes of Stirring Experiences in Chinese War Activities

Thrilling Times of Revolution Are Told of in Letter from Missionary

Warren Cox, who is Davidson’s missionary in China, a teacher of Chemistry in Hangchow College, sends in the following letter which will prove of interest to his many friends:

January 5, 1927.

To the Editor of the Davidsonian,
Davidson College.

To Davidson Students,

Dear Friends:

This letter is being written from the “firing line.” As I write I can hear the crack of rifles, and the whine of bullets as the line of sentries on either side of the Chien Dang River keep life from getting monotonous. “Our” line of sentries is some hundred yards from the college, and we are kept busy watching them at their practice.

When I first came to China, I found war—and came to Hangchow on the last train that went through from Shanghai. The college, however, was most peaceful and I didn’t hear a single shot of the Kiangsu-Chekiang war. Since then there has been a whole raft of petty wars but none have affected Hangchow, and I was getting afraid that I would not get to see any excitement before leaving China. One must not get disappointed, however, for now we have war and plenty.

If you have followed the latest developments in China you will remember that the forces from the South (Canton) began an offensive against the Northern armies some time ago, and that so far have been exceptionally successful. They have captured Hankow and Kiukiang, the two most important ports along the Yangtze River. In the last few months Feng Yu-hsiang (the Christian general) has emerged from his lair in Mongolia and has started southward to meet the Southern forces. The few petty generals between these two armies have been crushed out, and Feng Yu-hsiang has now joined forces with the South, giving the Cantonese control of all the eastern part of China. Now the South has started a drive northward through Fukien into Chekiang, and intend to cross the river on which we are situated and attack Hangchow. Sun Chuang Fang, the military ruler...of this province (the only one left to him of five that he ruled four months ago) is massing his forces to oppose the South. The end of the railroad is at Zakow, and the college is also at Zakow, and we are getting the full benefit of all the troops. The first line of defense was one mile from the college, at first, but has since moved on toward Fuyang, southward. I wish that I could picture the Chinese soldier to you. It is an impossible task. So many of them, newly recruited, are nothing but coolies, and the worst class of coolies at that. Many of them have trachoma so badly that they can hardly see, but they are given a rifle (and the power of life and death) and called a soldier. There has been a great deal of shooting lately at some boats on the river, as they were trying to cross from one side to the other. Many shots from the other side hit the college buildings, two hundred feet higher than the river. One of the bullets went through Frank Price’s (Harry Price’s brother) house this morning, and caused a bit of excitement. But, from the accuracy of their shooting, it is clear that they are not well-trained marksmen.

(Continued on page 8)

The address of Howard A. Banks, class of '88, Pittsburgh, Pa., 31 Sarbury Lane, Ben Avon Heights. The following Davidson Alumni have been recent visitors on the campus: A. A. McGeachy, Dr. '99, Charlotte, Ralph McMillan, '26, Barium Springs, Martin Foil, '23, Concord, N. C., W. A. McCaulay, '25, Concord, N. C., W. J. Richards, '24, Concord, N. C., C. L. Grey, '92, Hendersonville, N. C., O. J. Allison, '25, Columbia, S. C., A. K. Goodman, '04, Mt. Ulla, N. C. The father of W. S. Tate, ex-'28, died recently in Charlotte, N. C.

Maybe you've sailed the seven seas searching for perfect pipe pleasure. You've tried oceans of tobacco without running into one you can anchor to... but don’t give up the ship. Plenty of pipe-pilots were once in the same boat. Just shoot an S.O.S. to G.R.C. for Granger Rough Cut is a life-saver to pipes in distress. It’s rich and spicy—and mellowed by the old “Wellman Secret” it’s so mild you can stoke-up and fire away at full sail! The half-pound vacuum tin is forty-five cents, the foil-pouch package, sealed in glassine, is ten cents.

If you’re all at sea about your tobacco... Then jot this down in the old log: Granger’s rough cut flakes smoke as cool as a zippy sea zephyr. Man, your old smokestack’ll puff wreath after wreath of perfect pipe pleasure. And don’t wait till your ship comes in to take on a cargo of Granger. The pocket-package is not high-priced... for packed in foil (instead of costly tins) this quality tobacco sells at just ten cents. Load up today... and bon voyage!

GRANGER ROUGH CUT for pipes only!
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company

Alumni Secretary Seeks Assistance

The Notice Which Follows Was Received by the Davidsonian from the Alumni Secretary, Appealing For Assistance from Alumni in Stating of the Whereabouts or of Their Knowledge of Others

For your consideration:
Recently a letter was returned to us, with the notation on the outside that the alumnus had died six years ago. One alumnus moved to another state seven years ago. His mail was going to the old address. During the holidays we received a letter from a party almost at the very doors of Davidson, stating that one of our alumni died in 1921, and another in 1923. Yet mail was being sent to them. We have discovered that one alumnus listed as deceased is alive and president of an institution. One of our alumni who died six years ago has been receiving the bulletins all the while. From these few outstanding facts, don’t you realize that we need your assistance in making our records up to date? A week ago we made 106 changes in records. We could make many more. Send us a list of Davidson men in your city and community. Show your loyalty by aiding us in this manner.

From Office of Alumni Secretary.

SOPH PENNANTS

At a recent meeting of the Sophomore class, the members decided to get pennants and banners with class numerals on them, as is the custom. The contract for supplying the pennants and banners was given to the “Student's Store.” The pennants were ordered from the Beverly Manufacturing Company, of Staunton, Va. The pennants are not made in the Sophomore colors, but are made in the red and black of Davidson. The lettering is old English with nineteen above, and twenty-nine below the word Davidson. The pennants are said to be the best looking ever selected by any class. The banners are on display at the Student’s Store and all orders for same must be placed with the managers of the store before Tuesday, February 8th.