THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1927

J. W. Pharr, Davidson Alumnus, Is Dead

James W. Pharr, aged 63, of this city, died Sunday night at his home, 6 Travis Avenue. He had been in apparent good health Sunday, having attended church services three times Sunday. Heart trouble was the cause of his death.

Mr. Pharr was one of the best-known citizens of Charlotte. He was born in Statesville in 1863, the son of Rev. Walter W. Pharr, D.D., and Mrs. Emily Neal Pharr. James W. Pharr attended Davidson College and was graduated with the class of '83.

William Mack was born in Sumter County, in 1865. He was educated at Davidson College, from which he received the degrees A.B., A.M., and LL.D., and at the University of Missouri, which conferred upon him the degrees of L.L.B. and LL.D. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternities, he being a trustee of the latter. His connections in church and educational life were active ones. For many years he was a member of the board of trustees of Davidson College. He is a member of the New York Bar Association and of the American Bar Association, of the Civitan Club of New York, of Clinton Commandery Knights Templar, and Kismet Temple, and is a past regent of De Leon Council Royal Arcanum.

Mr. Mack took his first steps as a law writer in San Francisco under the guidance of A. C. Freeman, then the dean of legal textbooks. After serving this apprenticeship, Mr. Mack joined the staff of the Edward Thompson Company at Northport, N.Y., and was thence sent more than twenty-five years ago by Mr. C. W. Dumont to form the editorial organization which was to produce Cye and Corpus Juris. Perhaps no act of Mr. Dumont's long and successful business career, crowded as it has been with wise decisions, is a better proof of his wonderful judgment than this selection. The training of an editorial staff capable of producing such a work as Cye and following it by such a greater work as Corpus Juris is in itself a herculean task, but Mr. Mack has not only accomplished it but has found time to take a full part in the shaping of the general policy of the American Law Book Company, of which he is secretary.

—Extract from Charlotte News.

(Mr. Pharr sent three of his five sons to Davidson College, Rev. J. T. Pharr, of Wilmington; W. N. Pharr, of Concord, and J. B. Pharr, of Charlotte. His brother, H. N. Pharr, was also a student at Davidson — Editor’s Comment.)

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see VERNON S. BROYLES for QUICK SERVICE and BEST PRICES.

Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

Remember? Sure! You'll never forget those stirring football games last fall, nor the other thousand interesting happenings of your college life.

But what about your girl? Don’t let her take your copy. Buy an extra copy for her. If you’re a senior you'll want to be sure of always having one. Even an under-classman should play safe along this line. The Editor has some surprises in the Quips and Cranks that he won't let me tell you.

Your girl--
Your friend--
Your mother--Hi GIVE. A COPY OF THE 1927 Quips & Cranks

Prominent Alumnus Wins Distinction As Publisher of Valuable Law Book

The following is an article that appeared in a recent issue of The Law Student:

William Mack, of the Class of 1927, has given valuable and helpful suggestions which have emanated from his deep and practical interest in education and the vital problems of legal education as they exist today.

VOLUNTEER BAND

The method of conducting the meetings of the Volunteer Band was changed somewhat Sunday. Hitherto, the program at each of the meetings has consisted of studying the life of some great missionary; the field of work undertaken by a missionary; the trials of a missionary; and a complete survey of the whole missionary field. However, a new idea was tried Sunday. The question under discussion was: "What is the Student Volunteer movement?" Billy led the discussion. Each member is expected to read the pamphlet for next week: "What is involved in signing the Declaration of the Student Volunteer Movement?" Practically the whole Student Volunteer Band expects to attend the convention to be held Friday, lasting through Sunday.

On Sunday, February 20th, Bill Stephens, former football star of K. and L., will be the speaker. Bill has been very successful in working with men and will bring a real message, full of life that you can’t afford to miss.

Following this, several of the alumni present made short talks. The Statesville Alumni Association was formed Tuesday night of this week, at a banquet at the First Presbyterian Church there. Twenty-five alumni were guests of Karl Sherrill, ’12, and J. A. Scott. Jos. B. Johnston, ’01, was toastmaster of the occasion.

Alumni In Two Cities Form Davidson Clubs

The Alumni Association of Davidson College was formally organized at the Civic League hall here Monday night, when 34 former Davidson students, representing the two towns, met in an enthusiastic meeting. Officers elected were Dr. P. S. Easley, ’04, president; E. R. Rankin, ’06, vice-president; and C. S. Furches, ’25, secretary-treasurer. Rev. Reo Burwell, ’75, of Davidson, was elected president, with Ben Brown of Cornelius, vice-president, and Prof. Mas Blythe, ’07, treasurer. Harry Elliott, ’18, was in charge of the meeting, having headed a committee to make arrangements, and he first called on the Alumni Secretary to outline his own particular work and the purposes and objects of an association here. Following this, several of the alumni present made short talks. The Statesville meeting was one of the most spirited of any organized this year, the alumni manifesting an interest in affairs at the institution, many questions being asked. The open forum discussion followed talks by F. L. Jackson and Ernest Milton, of Davidson. J. P. Williams was also a guest.

COMING BACK AGAIN

February 28th, March 1st and 2nd

GALE HILLYARD, Representing Strouse & Company Baltimore, Md.

$30.00 $35.00 $40.00

GREEN & GEVIN

In the Spring a young man’s fancy turns to thoughts of two bright, attractive things. One of them is a Brachorn suit. We have had in mind the approbation of the gentler sex when we chose the unusual designs in exquisite color blendings which appear in our Braeburn suits for spring; and which are now ready for your inspection.

$35 to $50

CHARLOTTE, N. C.