2 2 -:- Sport Talk -:- News and Views of Wildcat Events By Raymond Lake

The “D” Club is to be commended on the spirit it showed in its recent decision to refrain from going
around and disturbing the students after its initiations. This custom is one which has been long in vogue at Davidson,
and one which has perhaps hurt the spirit of the student body quite a bit. In accordance with the true
Wildcat spirit, the “D” Club decided to do away with the custom for the good of the school. The members
of the “D” Club have shown the true Wildcat spirit even further by pledging themselves to work on two or
more athletes during the rest of the year and during the summer, and to interest them in coming to Davidson.
It would be well for each member of the student body to pledge himself to do the same thing, and
if every member of the student body would live up to his pledge, we would have more and better athletes
coming to Davidson.

Coach Tex and Professor Patterson have also had their grapplers working hard for the last week. The wrestlers will not
have any meets before Christmas, but they will have their first one soon after the holidays, and have been doing
some hard work in preparation for it for the last week or two. The wrestling schedule has not been definitely
decided on yet, but it will be a strenuous one, and will probably contain at least one good trip. Just
as in the case of the basketball team, the letter men from last year have been showing up well, and
several promising wrestlers are working hard to fill the positions left vacant by those of last year’s team who graduated.

There are only three of last year’s wrestling team who made letters who are back, namely, Flythe, Hill, and Captain
Garrison. Flythe, who wrestled in the 129-pound class last year, is taking strenuous workouts in an attempt to bring his
weight down enough so that he can wrestle in the 119-pound class. Tom Hill, who wrestled in the heavyweight class
last year, will wrestle in his own class this year, the 169-pound class. Captain Garrison also wrestled out of his
class last year, but this year, too, will wrestle in his own class, the 149-pound class. Several of the others
who are showing up well and who look good for future wrestlers are Glenn, Christenbury, Harper, Warren, L. K. Pritchett,
Brohard, Russell, Morris, Frank Brown, Herriot, and Cox.

The Freshman grapplers are also showing good form. Most of those out are out for the first time, but some
of the candidates have had training at various prep and high schools, and are showing up especially well. Estridge, Boyle,
Coble, and Stroud are showing up well in the various weights. A complete list of those out includes the names
of several promising grapplers, and of several who look good for next year’s varsity team. Those out are: Doduch, Umphlett,
Norfleet, Moore, Stroud, Preston, Coble, Pepper, Smith, McKeithan, Laurence, Jones, Ellis, Estridge, and Knight.

Manager Carson has announced his basketball schedule and the 15 games which have been arranged for, promise some stiff opposition.
There is only one open date, and if this date is filled later, the schedule will contain 16 of the
hardest games which have been arranged in recent years.

“I see, Mr. Blathers, you're a triple treat man with your professors.”
“Huh, how’s that?”
“You kick, pass, and run.” — Illinois Siren.

Proud Mother—“I call my baby ‘Lamb’ because he’s such a dear little lamb.”
P. M.—“And I call mine William Dean because he howls so much.”—Annapolis Log.

CHARLOTTE | KNOXVILLE

Wildcats to Meet State in Greensboro Next Fall
Game Probably Will be Played in Kenan Stadium

Greensboro has been selected as the probable location of the Davidson-N. C. State football game in 1928. This announcement was
made by W. W. Wood, the graduate manager of athletics at Davidson, after an executive meeting of the Athletic Association.
The game will in all probability be played in the Greensboro Memorial Stadium. The council has considered bids from other
North Carolina cities, but it is not likely that the game will be shifted to any other city.

The Davidson Council has not taken any definite action in regard to the Davidson-Clemson game. Manager Wood reports that no
further steps will be taken until word has been received from authorities at Clemson. It is believed that if Clemson
agrees to a two-year contract, the first game will be played there and the other at Davidson the next year.
If the two colleges fail to agree, the games will be played in neutral North Carolina cities.

Offers from the Army, Washington & Lee, V. P. I., Mercer, Hampden-Sidney, and Center, had to be declined because of
conflicting dates with North Carolina Conference teams whom the Wildcats will play as usual the following season. The complete schedule
for the season is as follows:

September 22—Guilford at Davidson.
September 29—Clemson (Place undecided).
October 13—Wofford at Davidson.
October 20—Citadel at Charleston, S. C.
October 27—Wake Forest at Charlotte.
November 3—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.
November 10—N. C. State at Greensboro.
November 17—Carolina at Davidson.
November 29—(Thanksgiving) Duke at Durham.

Dutch Wearn Gives Out Track Schedule

Dutch Wearn, track manager for 1928, has arranged a schedule which, although not yet complete, will include four meets with
members of the Big Five. Davidson will also compete in the State meet, held, as last year, at Greensboro, and,
although not yet definitely decided, it is possible that two other meets will be arranged. Track practice will start early
in March in order to put the team in the best shape possible for the meet with N. C. State,
which has been scheduled for the 31st of that month.

According to present indications, eight letter men in this sport will be back this year to represent Davidson on the
cinder path. John Melton and Bob Kell will again contend for places in the dashes, with Melton also in the
running broad jump. Dan Leftwich will perform in the weight, Craig, Fry and Elmer Brown in the low and high
hurdles; Hampton Jennings will again be seen in the pole vault event, while Camper O’Neal will probably run the mile
as he did last year. Don Martin and John Ely, who were prevented from competing in the cross-country races this
fall, may be able to try their skill and endurance in the distances.

Besides these letter men, Whittle, Brohard, Lafferty and King are among the promising Sophomores who will probably be heard from
this year. Although there are several creditable dash men in college now, Davidson’s main hope in this event lies in
the possible return of John Currie, who could be counted on for a first under-

Cafeterias are catering to you

ATLANTA | ASHEVILLE | RALEIGH

It has not been disclosed whether or not

1926-27, CAPTAIN WILSON

Captain Wilson to Lead Wildcats in First Game
Game With Salisbury “Y” Saturday Will Open Season

Having practiced for the past four weeks, the Wildcat quintet will meet the Salisbury “Y” on Saturday, December 17th. The
game will be called at 7:30 in the Davidson gym. The Wildcat squad has been scrimmaging for the past week
or two and has been rounding out into fine shape for its first encounter. This year’s nucleus will be built
around Ben Wilson, Captain and guard; Charlie Harrison, letter man and guard; Bennie McAulay, a forward of last year’s varsity,
and Andy Hewlett, who did not play last year. Pritchett, who was the captain of last year’s Freshman team,is also
making a bid for a berth on the quintet. The Wildcat team has been putting in a good bit of
work lately, due partly to the fact that last year the Salisbury club had an excellent team and is expected
to have as good a one this year. The Wildcats defeated Salisbury last year by the large margin of one
point. Not to be outdone, the Salisbury boys turned around and on their own court beat Davidson by an equal
score. Due to the closeness of the opposing strength of these two teams, partisans of both sides are looking forward
to a very good game. Saturday’s line-up will probably be as follows: Hewlett and McAulay, forwards; Captain Wilson, at the
center position; and Harrison and Pritchett, at guards.

Fresh Quintet Cut to Seventeen Men

After two weeks of preliminary practice, Coach “Monk” Mattox has cut the Frosh basketball squad down to 17 men and
is concentrating on these. As there are no Frosh games before February, the Freshmen are having plenty of time to
get in trim. Those who are showing up especially well are: Rusk, center and forward; Gibson, guard; Wilson, center; Shepherd,
forward; and McAlister, forward. Coach Mattox seems very well pleased with the Frosh material this year and plans to keep
the squad as it now is. No games have been definitely scheduled as yet, but it is expected that several
games will be scheduled shortly.

“I heard that a girl ran away with a train.”
“What was her motive?”
“Locomotive.”—Centre Colonel.

“I have a suit for every day in the week.”
“Yes?”
“This is it.”—Blue Dragon.

Officers from fourteen foreign countries trained at United States Army schools or with American troops during place in the 100
and 220 yard dashes. The schedule so far completed is as follows: Date, College, and Place, respectively:
March 31st—N. C. State—Davidson.
April 4th—Duke—Durham.
April 21st—Wake Forest—Wake Forest.
April 28th—U. of S. C.—Davidson.

Fifteen Freshmen Grid Stars Receive Numerals

D. C. numerals were awarded to the following men for service on the Freshman football team: J. R. Estridge, R.
Z. Johnston, and Thad Brock, all of Barium Springs; Warren David, of Wilmington; J. D. Foil and James Foil, of
Salisbury; Dan Goodykoontz, of Bluefield, W. Va.; C. H. Farrell, of Dunn; W. B. Pope, of Lumberton; James L. Page,
of Gastonia; H. S. Covington, of Red Springs; William Mason, of Kings Mountain; and Charles Parker, of High Point.

Judging by the scores of the past season, the Freshmen have not had a particularly successful season in football. First,
Oak Ridge defeated the Wilkittens by the score of 11-0, on a muddy, sloppy field. Incidentally, the Oak Ridge boys
won the prep school championship of the State and are claimants for Southern honors. In their next tilt, that with
the Wofford Freshmen, the Davidson boys won their one game of the season, by a score of 12-0. The score
of the succeeding game, between the Wildkittens and the Duke Freshmen, won by Duke, was 19-0, on the latter’s field.
The State Freshmen came down to the Wildcats’ lair and sufficiently bearded them to be enabled to take home the
long end of a 12-19 score. A week later the State boys won the championship of the state among college
freshman football teams. In their last encounter, that with the P. C. Freshmen, the Wildkittens were defeated by the score
of 32-6.

Scores, however, do not necessarily denote the strength or latent ability of a team. Despite their rather poor scores for
the past season, the Wildkittens had some very promising material for the Fresh team and should send up some very
good men for the future varsity. In the line, Mason and Brock showed themselves as very able guardsmen. Mason, at
the pivot position, played good football throughout the season; in the absence of Dan Goodykoontz, he acted as captain. Marrow,
who entered when the season was rather far advanced, displayed a very good toe. In the backfield Captain Goodykoontz and
Joe McCall, playing either quarter or half; Estridge at quarter, and Pope and David, at half, showed themselves as very
promising material. David in particular was very good on defensive play.

Charlie Harrison, Wildcat Athlete, Begins Last Year With Local Quintet

With the opening of the basketball season, one of the mainstays of the Wildcat quintet promises to be Charlie Harrison,
who has won letters in basketball for three consecutive years. Playing guard on the team, Harrison is outstanding in his
floor work. He is particularly noted for speed in covering the floor, and is said to be one of the
best dribblers ever on a Davidson five. His consistent playing at guard was an important factor in the success of
the team last year, and makes him one of the main hopes of the coming season.

Besides in basketball, Harrison has taken a prominent part in other branches of athletics. His athletic ability was first shown
in his Freshman year when he won letters in football and basketball. The next year he received letters in the
same two sports. Last year his versatility was further shown when he won a letter in baseball, in addition to
letters for the other two sports. While he has never received a letter in track, he has taken part in
several track meets, and has featured in his broad jumping. During the past football season, Harrison, playing halfback, was one
of the fastest men in the backfield. His brilliant end runs often resulted in long gains, and contributed largely to
the Wildcats’ offensive strength. His consistent gains in the Florida game contributed largely to the victory for the Wildcats, and
will long be remembered by Davidson students.

In the awarding of the Norris Athletic Trophy last year, won by Bohannon, Harrison was one of the runners-up for
the honor. He is one of the outstanding athletes in college this year, and will be a strong contender for
the award this year.

Rifle Team Adopts Extensive Schedule

Cadet Captain Julian Lake, of Augusta, Ga., in charge of the Davidson College R. O. T. C. rifle team, has
announced the completion of a schedule of 19 matches in which the Davidson team will compete during the remainder of
the 1927-1928 college year. The schedule, which includes matches with many of the leading colleges of the nation, is believed
to be the most extensive ever undertaken by a local rifle squad. The schedule is as follows:
January 7—West Virginia University.
February 4—Oklahoma A. and M.
February 4—Louisiana State University.
February 4—Emory University.
February 6-11—Davidson Open Match.
February 11—Culver Military Academy.
February 11—Mississippi Aggies.
February 15—Texas A and M.
February 18—New Mexico Military Institute.
February 18—Kemper Military School.
February 25—Oregon Agricultural College.
February 25—University of Dayton.
February 25—College of Western Maryland.
March 10—University of Vermont.
March 17—North Dakota State.

In addition to the matches shown above, the Davidson team has competed in a match with a rifle team from
Statesville, and has just completed firing in the Scabbard and Blade Trophy Match. Matches with Oak Ridge Military Institute, and
Virginia Military Institute have been scheduled, but dates have not been announced. In all of the matches except the last
two, Davidson will fire on her own range, the completed targets being sent in for comparison with those of her
opponents.
