A THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1927

AS THE ATHLETIC EDITOR SEES IT
BY RAYMOND LAKE

The recent announcement that the golf team has arranged for a match with the strong Georgia Tech team may be of more significance than would at first be apparent. When the announcement was made that the football team had arranged for games next year with several larger and stronger teams, it was received with great applause. Of course, golf is nothing like as popular a sport as football, but any act which tends to broaden the athletic relations of Davidson should be applauded and encouraged. Under the present conditions, the things which put a college on the map are to a large extent its athletic teams. The championship football team put out by “Monk” and “Tex” this year has given Davidson a flying start toward better athletics, and if that old Wildcat Spirit is kept going in proper shape, it won't take long to get on top.

The Wildcat nine started off the season right by winning over the Oak Ridge team in the initial game last Friday, but fell back somewhat in the second game Saturday. The team has not yet learned to work together as a unit. The pitchers both did good work Saturday, but they couldn’t win the game by themselves. A large number of errors were made, and the lack of teamwork was painfully evident. The second game of the season, however, is a bad time to try to judge any team. When Monk has had a little more time to work with his men, a great deal of difference will be noticed. This is the first year he has had a chance to work with some of them, and there is yet room for lots more development.

The track meet last Saturday with V. M. I. revealed, or rather emphasized only too plainly, the well-known fact that the local track team is weak in the field events. If the team was as strong in these events as it is in the dashes, the season would undoubtedly be an extremely successful one. With Curry, Goodykoontz, Flynn, and Kell running in the dashes, the local team will be able to win in these events over most of the teams to be met. In the meet last Saturday at least one first place was lost on account of injuries on the team. If Curry had been in first-class shape, first place in the 100-yard dash would in all probability have been won by Davidson. The team is also weak in the distance runs. The best that the men in these events could do was second place. These men will improve as the season goes on, however, and this part of the team will be built up and strengthened quite a bit.

The Freshman nine has developed quite a bit in the last week under “Monk” Mattox’s competent direction. With the exception of shifting Odiorn to first base, no changes have been made in the probable line-up. Odiorn seems to be more at home at first than at any of the other positions, and should develop into a first-class first baseman. Johnson has been shifted to the outfield, and is showing up good in this position. Several pitchers, among the most promising of whom are Henderson, Kugler, Hampden, and Dobbins, are doing good work and look good for varsity material next year. “Chic” Williams is still showing up good at catch, and he also should make a good addition to the varsity next year.

Some time ago there was some talk of having a fencing team at Davidson. The idea seems to have been almost forgotten, however, and the interest of everyone seems to have turned toward track and baseball. It is natural for the most interest to be given over to track and baseball, but a fencing team would be a fine addition to the college. Fencing is a sport which not only develops a person physically, but also gives him more self-confidence, makes him more alert, and makes him much quicker. It is certain that meets could be arranged with schools having fencing teams, and it would be a mighty fine thing if someone who knows something about the sport would organize a team and arrange some meets.

Another sport which should be given more attention at Davidson is boxing. Captain Elkins is an excellent coach and could build up as good a team if he could get better support from the student body. A boxing arena has been built near the barracks, and should furnish an incentive for more interest in the sport.

Local Track Team Suffers Overwhelming Defeat at Hands of Strong V. P. I. Team in First Meet

Oak Ridge Wins Second Game from Wildcat Nine

In the second game of a two-game series, the Oak Ridge ball team held the Wildcats to three hits and four runs to come out with a 10 to 4 victory. Oak Ridge piled up a big lead in the third and fourth innings and held it safely throughout the whole game. Errors, wild pitching, and poor co-operation gave Oak Ridge nine of their runs. Davidson came back in their half of the fourth with a rally which, however, fell short. Meadows pitched six innings against the Oak Ridge hitters and held them to three hits. He relieved Cathey after the third inning and pitched the rest of the game. Many errors in the infield, weak hitting, and poor teamwork were shown on both sides. It must be remembered, however, that the season is just getting under way, and there is yet time for a great amount of improvement.

Box score and summary:

Oak Ridge
AB R H PO A E
Randis, ss 5 1 1 0 0 0
Gray, c 5 1 1 6 0 0
Durham, lb 5 1 1 10 0 0
Ferrell, cf 4 1 1 2 0 0
Howard, 3b 4 1 1 2 0 0
Goodson, 2b 4 0 1 1 6 0
Benton, rf 4 0 1 0 0 0
White, p 4 1 1 0 2 0
Morris, lf 3 1 1 4 0 0
Totals 38 10 8 27 11 1

Davidson
AB R H PO A E
Woodham, 1b 2 0 0 8 0 0
Davis, rf 4 0 1 0 0 0
Ratchford, lf 2 0 0 3 0 1
Johnson, cf 4 1 0 3 0 0
Black, c 3 1 1 7 0 0
Dill, 3b 3 1 1 1 1 0
Kugler, ss 3 0 0 1 2 0
McAulay, 2b 1 0 0 2 0 2
Glen, 2b 2 0 0 1 1 0
Cathey, p 1 0 0 0 1 0
Meadows, p 1 0 0 0 3 0
*McConnell 1 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 29 4 3 27 9 6
*Batted for McAulay in fourth.

Score by innings: R H E
Oak Ridge 105 400 000—10 8 1
Davidson 000 301 000— 4 3 6

Summary: Three-base hits, White; sacrifice hits, Durham, Ferrell, Howard 2, Pierce, Benton, Ratchford; stolen bases, Gray 2; base on balls, off White 9, Cathey 2, Meadows 3; struck out, by White 6, by Cathey 5, by Meadows 2; hits, off Cathey 5 with 6 runs in 3 innings, off Meadows 3 with 4 runs in six innings; left on base, Oak Ridge 8, Davidson 9; hit by pitcher, by White, Meadows 2, by Meadows, Gray; wild pitch, White; passed balls, Benton 2; balk, White; losing pitcher, Cathey; umpire, Brandon.

A wristwatch serving as an alarm clock has been invented. A revolving unit with protruding points that touch the skin serves as the alarm.The sport of boxing is almost as and quickness, and excels the former in the development of other qualities. There are several good boxers in college, and others could be very easily developed if an interest in boxing could be worked up.

“Gobblers” Outpoint Wildcats More Than Thirty Points

CURRY BREAKS RECORD

Sims, Curry, D. M. Calhoun, and Goodykoontz Win First Places For Davidson

Davidson was defeated in the first track meet of the year Saturday, with Virginia Polytechnic Institute. The score was 79.5 for V. P. I. and 46.5 for Davidson. Although outpointed by over 30 points, the Wildcats never lost the fighting spirit that has made them famous in every field of college sport.

John Curry, running faster than ever before, lowered the college record for the two-twenty yard dash by two-tenths of a second to 21.8 seconds. The old record was held by Captain Goodykoontz, who placed it at 22 seconds.

V. P. I. took ten first places, eight second places, and three thirds, and also tied for a second and third place. Davidson took four first places, five second places, nine thirds, and tied for a second and a third.

Due to a strong wind that swept through the stadium all during the meet, the time for the long-distance events was slow, although the time for the dashes and the hurdles was very good.

The four first places taken by Davidson were captured by the following men: Sims, in the 120 high hurdles; Curry, in the 220; D. Calhoun, in the high jump; Goodykoontz, in the 440. The individual scoring for Davidson was as follows: Curry, 8; Goodykoontz, 6; Sims, 6; Frye, 5; D. Calhoun, 5; Pinckney, Kell, and O'Neal, 3 each; Brown, 2; and Flynn, Leftwich, Melton, Lincoln, and Treveton, 1 each.

The summary of the meet follows:

100 yard dash—Montague, Tech., first; Curry, Davidson, second; Flinn, Davidson, third; time, 9.9 seconds.

120 yard high hurdles—Sims, Davidson, first; Cowell, Tech., second; Brown, Davidson, third; time, 17.2 seconds.

220 yard dash—Curry, Davidson, first; Montague, Tech., second; Goodykoontz, Davidson, third; time, 21.8.

Shot put—Grey, Tech., first; Lund, Tech., second; Leftwich, Davidson, third; distance, 40 feet 1 1-2 inches.

High jump—D. Calhoun, Davidson, first; Holzworth, Tech., second; P. Calhoun, Davidson, and Beverly, Tech., tied for third; height, 5 feet 5 inches.

880 yard run—Cooke, Tech., first; Pinckney, Davidson, second; Cox, Tech., third; time, 2:08.7.

Broad jump—Brown, Tech., first; Kelly, Davidson, second; Melton, Davidson, third; distance, 20 feet 6 1-2 inches.

Discus Throw—Lund, Tech., first; Grey, (Continued on page 3)

You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station

DAVIDSON, N. C.

WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy See Us

26-28 S. College St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Varsity Nine Victorious in Opening Game Friday

The Wildcat baseball team took the first game of the season from Oak Ridge by a score of 10 to 7. A victory over the Ridgers was practically assured when Davidson secured two runs in the first inning. The game was cinched in the fourth inning when the Wildcats garnered five runs after having pounded out four hits.

Oak Ridge led in the hitting, but Wells was given excellent support, especially from McCauley, who handled six put-outs and four assists without an error. Ferrell and Pierce were credited with homers, while Grey, Durham, and Rand were credited with triples. For Davidson, Black and Dulin checked in triples, with Ratchford and Johnston getting doubles. Ferrell, Oak Ridge, and Black, Davidson, led the hitting, both getting two hits out of four times at bat.

Box score and summary:

Oak Ridge AB R H PO A
Shaw, cf 4 1 1 3 0
Bias, lf 4 1 1 3 0
Grey, 1b 4 1 1 10 0
Winall, 2b 3 2 1 1 5
Mentiller, rf 4 0 2 1 0
Hammond, 3b 4 0 1 0 2
Pierce, ss 4 1 1 3 2
Goodson, c 4 0 1 0 4
Betton, p 2 0 0 0 1
Bowman, p 2 0 0 0 1
Totals 35 7 9 24 10

Davidson AB R H PO A
Wood, lf 4 2 1 0 0
Davis, cf 3 1 1 1 0
Ratchford, ss 4 1 1 0 1
Johnston, 1b 4 1 1 10 0
Black, rf 4 2 2 0 0
Dulin, 3b 3 1 1 0 0
McAuley, 2b 3 0 0 5 4
Mittlejohn, c 3 0 0 0 1
Wigle, p 4 1 0 0 5
Meadows, p 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 33 10 7 27 18

*Batted for Dulin in sixth. (Continued on page 3)

Match With Furman to Open Net Season

The tennis team will open the greatest schedule in the history of Davidson College with Furman on April 5th. Furman showed exceptionally good form at the S. C. state meet last year and will most likely have a strong team again this year.

Dick Carr, star varsity man on the Davidson team, will be out of this first match on account of his injury. He is, however, rapidly recovering and will be able to practice in a few days. It is hoped that Carr will be back with the regular team for all the other matches of the year. The team for the coming week will be composed of Captain McCutcheon, John Roddey, MacAlpine, and Alexander.

On April 21st the team will make a two-day trip to Chapel Hill to play the University of North Carolina. Shortly after the Chapel Hill game, the team will make their big Northern trip. Carr and McCutcheon, national inter-collegiate doubles champions of North Carolina, will be paired in the doubles. The Northern trip is to be one of the biggest trips ever made by a Davidson athletic team. Some of the best tennis players in the United States will be met, including Colgate, Bethlehem, George Washington, Penn, and Cornell. The trip will cover about a week’s time. McCutcheon, Carr, Roddey, MacAlpine, and possibly one other will make the trip.

The Freshman tennis tournament is to be run off as soon as possible. The contestants have been seeded according to the showing they made in the tournament held last fall. The first rounds of the eliminations are now under way and will be completed soon. Haverstadt, Johnson, Apple, and Kopp, who showed up on top in the fall tournament, are expected to take the lead in the present competition.

A North Carolina trip for the Fresh team has been arranged which will include contests at Chapel Hill, Duke, Greensboro, and (Continued on page 6)

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks

Sheaffer Pens and Pencils

Seal Stationery

Pennants and Pillows

Wildcat Belts

Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Drinks In Statesville

We Are Located TO SERVE YOU

Candy

Austin Candy Shop

Statesville, N. C.

Smokes

Charlotte, N. C.

banking needs.

Government.

R. A. DUNN, President

C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President

A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

The Commercial National Bank

Has stood the test of time and stands ready

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States

Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS

FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

Founded 1847 to serve your

L. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer

J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier

M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier