THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1927

Debate to be Held

Definite permission to hold the Davidson-Emory debate this spring in the Queens College chapel has been received by L. D. Wharton, Jr., president of the Forensic Council, following correspondence with Dr. W. H. Frazer, president of Queens College. The debate with Emory will be on the question of recognition of Soviet Russia, with Davidson upholding the negative side of this question. The Davidson team will be selected on the night of Friday, March 4. It is still not too late to sign up for this preliminary.

Alumnus Appointed to Important Post

Charles K. Marshall, Jr., of Gastonia, ex-'26, has recently been appointed night editor of the Raleigh (N. C.) Bureau of the Associated Press, according to news dispatches reaching Davidson during the past week. Mr. Marshall, during his college career, was one of Davidson’s leading news-writers. His articles written from Davidson appeared in the news and sporting columns of a number of North Carolina’s leading daily papers, and attracted much favorable comment. As the director of The Davidsonian Press Bureau, Mr. Marshall was instrumental in developing a publicity system for the college which has grown steadily in volume and in value during the past three years.

Shortly after his withdrawal from college, Mr. Marshall became a reporter on the staff of the Gastonia (N. C.) Daily Gazette, of which he became the city editor within a short time. He was with the Gazette up until the time of his acceptance of the Associated Press position several weeks ago.

Way Indorses Military Training

Extracts from a personal letter addressed to a Davidson faculty member by Dr. J. Howell Way, M.D., well-known North Carolina physician, indicate the approbation which characterized the general public’s reception of the news that the Davidson Board of Trustees had voted to continue military training here. Dr. Way is president of the N. C. Board of Health, and a former president of both the N. C. and Tri-State Medical Associations. The extracts of Dr. Way’s letter, to which reference is made, follow:

“I have just read with pleasurable interest in the morning paper the highly gratifying news that the trustees of your institution have decided to maintain your military training. I congratulate the trustees, the State of North Carolina, and the young men who are to be subjected to this helpful and beneficial training, for I know from experience that this training is valuable in creating a high type of Christian leadership and citizenship.” 
J. Howell Way, M.D.

The Wildcat quintet returned to the Hill after losing games to Carolina, State, and Duke by the scores of 53-18, 35-19, and 32-30, respectively. Duke snatched her game with a winning goal as the whistle blew. The last game of the season will be Saturday night with Citadel. It is coincident with the above statement that this year’s team completes its season this Saturday night, February 26.

The Soph class banquet was held at the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce last Saturday evening. Caldwell Withers acted as toastmaster, with toasts offered by Witt Hancock, Boyce Martin, and W. L. Lingle. President Nisbet spoke a few words, while the feature event of the evening was a timely dissertation of A. M. Hillhouse, secretary of the “Y.”

Word has also been received by the council that in the debate on the Northern Trip Davidson will uphold the negative of the cancellation of the war debts query against William and Mary and the affirmative against Rutgers. It is doubtful who Gettysburg College will choose.

The Glee Club has started on its annual Southern tour to give concerts in Spartanburg, Beaufort, Atlanta, Decatur, Greenville, and Charlotte. The Dramatic Club is also accompanying on this trip, its novel intermission stunt being its presentation.

Dr. Ogden, of Mobile, is completing a series of services which have been well received. Long to be remembered topics of his are “Shadows,” “Ships,” and “A High and a Low.”

The trustees of the college in semi-annual session considered the completion of New Chambers; elected five new faculty members; appointed a committee to present plans providing for the retirement of professors; and heard a report of Dr. R. H. Kelly relative to Davidson College in several phases of its work. It will be recalled that only last week the trustees again met, this time urging the completion of New Chambers.

The decoration committee has managed to obtain the services of John Choate, the interior decorator, and he has now completed designs that will completely renovate the gym. As soon as practicable, regular work will begin on this feature of the entertainment. The financial estimates are as yet incomplete but as soon as the budget is finished the assessment on each member will be made.

CONVERSE CLUB TO COME

(Continued from page 1)

Raleigh FRESH FEAST COMES

(Continued from page 1)

Transportation from one of the bus companies of Charlotte, and it is expected that approximately two hundred and fifteen freshmen will attend.

Drinks In Statesville

We Are Located TO SERVE YOU

Candy Austin Candy Shop Statesville, N. C.

THE BEST PLACE TO EAT

Brown’s Restaurant 17 S. Tryon St. CHARLOTTEClass will be announced. Each Junior will be expected to meet this obligation immediately so that no financial difficulties will be encountered.

A scoreless tie was the result of a game between the Reds and Blacks last Saturday. The scheduled game of these teams for last Saturday was called off on account of rain, but the student body is eagerly awaiting the initiation of such close games as spring football of the previous year revealed.

Great progress is being made on Sanity Rare. A cover design submitted by Wells Glenn Frye has been selected and is now in the hands of the printing company. The magazine will contain about 32 or forty pages.

McALISTER CARSON ('13)

WINDSTORMS ARE COMING
Perhaps not today or tomorrow, but Weather Bureau records show that every section of the country has its windstorm sometime. It pays to carry enough Windstorm Insurance.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A call for new tennis courts and for the regrading and care of the old was sounded in this week’s Open Forum by W. L. Lingle.

“If we recall right the year 1927 still hears the echoes of such a worthy call, yet unanswered.”

Six baseball letter men, Captain Alford, Woodham, Abe Kugler, Glenn, Kugler, J., and Davis, answered the call for initial practice. The present season finds the return of four of the above letter men, Davis, Glenn, Kugler, J., and Captain Woodham.

The meeting was adjourned by singing Columbia.

SOPHOMORES HOLD FORTH
(Continued from page 1)

McConnell. “Riggs” filled his part in an admirable manner and kept those present in a continuous gust of laughter for several minutes. The main speeches of the evening were made by Dr. J. M. McConnell, Prof. Bailey, and Dr. Rowan, general president of the Alumni Association. Dr. McConnell expressed his appreciation at being present and urged the class to work on to better things. Prof. Bailey also urged the class to work on to higher things, and have something definite to work on. Several members of the class expressed their approval of Prof. Bailey’s suggestion, and the general spirit of the class seemed to indicate that the plan met the approval of all present, and that something definite would be taken up and worked out by the class. Dr. Rowan’s address came as the climax of the occasion. His address was inspiring and educational and at the same time contained enough humor to make it unusually interesting. Between numbers on the program, the class and visitors were entertained by a quartet made up of four members of the class, and by some special music given by other members of the class. The spirit shown during the evening was exceptionally fine and worthy of Davidson men. A feeling of brotherhood and of common interest was worked up, and a desire and determination to make the class of '29 even more worthy of Davidson was instilled in the hearts of all those present. In conclusion, the class rose in a body and sang, O Davidson. The banquet was followed by a theatre party.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see VERNON S. BROYLES
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

The Quips and Cranks staff announces that all work has been completed and will be in the hands of the printers in less than ten days. Such good work of last year’s staff is being repeated by the present staff under the leadership of Editor-in-Chief Don Wharton.

The Seniors held a smoker last Tuesday night at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. Talks and music contributed to the evening’s entertainment. The Queens Dramatic Club will be here Monday night with their masculine interpretation of “Mr. Bob.” The Freshman wrestling squad is working hard to get in shape for their meet with Winston-Salem High School. Flythe, Hill, and Creech, who contributed materially to that team, are now serving their places on the Varsity.

Exchanges: “They call it ‘Junior Dance’ at other schools, but at Davidson it’s plain ‘Junior Speaking.’”

The Columbia chapter of the Davidson College Alumni Association was formally organized last Monday night when the alumni of the institution met at a banquet at the Jefferson Hotel. Approximately 30 of the “old grads” were in attendance.

The guest of the chapter, General Alumni Secretary Ernest Milton, was the principal speaker of the evening. Mr. Milton outlined in a general way the work of the Alumni Association. He also touched briefly on the growth of Davidson College within the past few years in number of students, endowment, equipment, faculty, etc. Dr. Reed Smith, of the University faculty, also made a short speech. Officers elected for one year were: O. J. Allison, ’24, president; Howard Blanton, vice-president, and Lex Kluttz, '17, secretary-treasurer.

WE’RE almost out of breath, week after week, continually showing the boys our Spring BRAEBURNS... like nothing they’ve seen before; still as genteel as they are original. They set the pace for values, too! $35 to $50

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.