THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1927

Davidson Leads School Delegation at Meeting

DAVIDSON LEADS SCHOOLS

Record of Nine Delegates Set at Y. M. C. A. State Convention in Greensboro

The 1927 All-State Y. M. C. A. Convention was held February 8th in the new Y. M. C. A. building
at Greensboro, N. C. The delegates represented college, city, and industrial branches of the organization, which in turn were divided
into three sections: Eastern, Western, and Student sections. Davidson, with nine men, led the convention in the number of delegates
from one institution, and was represented by Bill Christian, local president; James Appleby, local secretary; Howard Arbuckle, John Foster, Robert
Grady, John Moriarty, Charles McCrae, Camper O'Neal, and Clanton Williams. The convention applauded Davidson at various times, both for her
fine representation and for her outstanding reports on mission funds.

In the student section of the convention, John Foster, with Mr. Hayworth of Guilford College, was nominated for national council
representative. The latter was elected. In addition to other phases of “Y” work, including officer’s reports and minor inspiring addresses,
two were delivered by Mr. Roberts, national council representative, and Mr. Knowles Cooper, general secretary, of Washington, D. C. The
convention closed with a banquet that night, and Mr. Morgan B. Speir was re-elected to the office of state president.
Among other colleges represented were: Carolina, Guilford, Elon, State, and several colored institutions.

Rev. John R. Hay, ’10, of Clover, S. C., is giving up his pastorate there and taking charge of the
church at Hickory, N. C., where his address is 1313 Thirteenth Avenue.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PNEUMONIA
Always call a physician. Until his arrival, use “emergency” treatment with Vicks. This does not interfere with anything he may
prescribe.
Vicks VapoRub

Third Orators Contest for American Colleges Scheduled This Spring

Contest Open to Bona Fide Undergraduate Students

PRIZES TOTAL $5,000

Sponsored by Better American Federation of California—Orator’s Subject Federal Constitution

Colleges and universities throughout the United States are invited to participate in the Third National Intercollegiate Oratorical Contest on The
Constitution, being conducted by The Better American Federation of California. The prizes total $5,000, to be divided among the seven
national finalists in the following amounts: First, $1,500; Second, $1,000; Third, $750; Fourth, $550; Fifth, $450; Sixth, $400; Seventh, $350.
The orations must deal with the Constitution of the United States, or the relationship thereto of Washington, Hamilton, Jefferson, Madison,
Marshall, Webster, or Lincoln. They must not require more than ten minutes for delivery.

Any bona fide undergraduate student, boy or girl, in any college or university in the United States is eligible, provided
he or she has not received a degree. The working unit in the contest is the individual college. Each college
is to select its own representatives and is to have only one. In case a college neglects to formally enroll
in the contest, an individual student may do so by communicating with national headquarters.

There will be seven major regions (embracing the entire country) in which the colleges and universities will compete among themselves.
The exact designation of the territory to be included in each of these seven regions will be made by the
contest management after the list of entrants has been closed, namely, on March 15, 1927. By April 15th, each college
must have designated its representative. The representatives of each college in each region will compete on April 29th, in small
groups to determine the finalists for their particular region. The regional meetings (to be held between May 17 and May
31, in locations to be designated by the contest management, for the convenience of contestants, after the regional finalists have
been selected) will be in reality the national semi-finals. The winner in each of these seven regional meetings automatically becomes
entitled to a place in the national finals in Los Angeles on June 23, 1927. A place in the national
finals carries with it the assurance of one of the seven cash awards, ranging from $350 to $1,500, provided the
contestant exercises his right to speak in those finals.

The following universities were represented in the 1926 finals: Fordham, Pomona, Harvard, Bucknell, Denver, Michigan, and Virginia. For further information,
address Contest Headquarters, 605 Hibbs Building, Washington, D. C.

Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

NORRIS TROPHY VOTE

The first of a series of student body ballots, being taken by the Athletic Association in an effort to pick
the winner of the Norris Athletic Trophy, resulted Wednesday morning in the nomination of a vast number of Wildcat athletes,
with Harrison, Bohannon, and Dick Grey leading the nominees by safe margins. These three men will compete in a second
election to be held in a few weeks, these elections being continued until one of the three candidates secures a
sufficient majority to win the cup. The Norris Trophy, in the form of a beautiful silver loving cup, is awarded
each year by the Norris Candy Company, of Atlanta, to the most outstanding Davidson athlete of the year. The cup
becomes the permanent property of its winner.

Chameleon Honored by Literary Group

The official publication of Sigma Delta Chi, National journalistic fraternity, has recently announced a listof college publications that have been
awarded certificates of merit in the 1926 contest of the National College Press Conference. The Davidson College Magazine has been
placed on this list and it is quite an honor, for this fraternity is regarded as an authority among college
journals. There were 270 publications that were put on this list, made up from colleges all over the United States
and seven were chosen from the state of North Carolina. Those chosen from North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia are
as follows:

North Carolina—Carolina Boll Weevil, University; Tarheel, University; Davidson College Magazine, Davidson; Maroon and Gold, Elon College; Guilfordian, Guilford College; Gold
and Black, Wake Forest; Student, Wake Forest.

South Carolina—Charleston College Magazine, Charleston; Carolinian, Columbia; Criterion, Columbia; Furman Echo, Greenville; College Journal, Spartanburg.

Virginia—Hampden-Sidney Magazine, Hampden-Sidney; Cadet, Lexington; Critograph, Lynchburg; Sweet Briar News, Sweet Briar; College Topics, University; William and Mary Literary Magazine,
Williamsburg.

STUDENT BODY CHALLENGED
(Continued from page 1)

earthly banners,” he said. The preaching of Christ in the world and the founding of the Church was man’s movement.
He forget that. Christianity is the bringing of our Father’s business into our human business, and it can bring more
to man than any training can ever bring. “God would not have given us a mind to always right,” Bishop
Mikell said. “When we consider the universe that there is the mark of a mind.” Stating that the Old Testament
represents man’s search for God and the New Testament the answer to man’s search, he said that Christ did not
come into the world to talk about God like Socrates, but to show God. And in the same manner, the
Holy Spirit shows us Jesus. “Through Christ we have access to every word of the Father,” was said to be
the text in the Bible summing up personal religion. “There is no personal religion without prayer,” Bishop Mikell charged. “And
prayer is the talking of man with his friend God.”

“If we are to have personal contact with Jesus, religion must bind the body and it must control your will,
your mind, and your conscience. Religion is the matter of a consecrated human will. Who will hear the call of
this noble leader and who will follow it?” he concluded.

PRELIMINARY BALLOT FOR NORRIS ATHLETIC TROPHY
(Continued from page 1)

each year by Mr. Norris, of Atlanta, Ga., president of the Norris Candy Company. Although not an alumnus of Davidson,
Mr. Norris has taken a peculiar interest in Davidson and in student affairs at Davidson. The Trophy is offered only
at Davidson, a fact which makes it an even greater honor to be chosen as the winner of it.

Bank Employees Taught by Davidson Professor
Course Offered by American Institute of Banking to Bank Clerks of Charlotte

A regular course in banking is being taught to the employees of the various banks of Charlotte who belong to
the American Institute of Banking. These classes are conducted every week by Professor Currie, at the Chamber of Commerce, with
about 40 student-clerks in attendance at each meeting. The course, as laid out by Professor Currie, covers everything that is
included in the regular course taught in Davidson, with special attention given to the Law of Supply and Demand, Banking,
Money, and those details which are of particular interest to the young men engaged in this sort of work. The
men are given lectures and are quizzed regularly much as the students are at Davidson. This course is one of
four that is provided by the American Institute of Banking for bank employees who are members of the association. At
present, about 40 of the young bank clerks of Charlotte are taking advantage of this opportunity to acquire theoretical information
which may be put into practice during their working hours.

PHONE 298
Charlotte Transfer Company
C. E. T.C. BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Sunday afternoon the Christian Endeavor Training Class had an interesting discussion of the principles underlying the C. E. The two
principal speakers of the afternoon were Pender McBride and Ernest Milton. McBride was the leader of the class and gave
to them in a simple form the “Underlying Principles of The Christian Endeavor.” Ernest Milton took up the theme then
and discussed separately and in detail each one of the five principles given by the leader. These principles as given
in the talk by Milton were:

First: A personal devotion to the Divine Lord and Saviour.

Second: A covenant obligation that is embodied in the Christian Endeavor pledge which implies that the help of the Spirit
of God is the source and inspiration of our Christian Endeavor.

Third: A constant religious training for all kinds of service involved in various committees.

Fourth: A strenuous loyalty to the local church and denomination with which each Christian Endeavor society is connected.

Fifth: An interdenominational spirit of fellowship which it is hoped will help us to realize our Lord’s prayer into a
spiritual reality.

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Founded 1847
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

NEW! LeBow Suits for College Men, $40.90
Just arrived---the smartest suits of the spring season, especially designed for college men, including blues, tans, and grays, correctly tailored
of quality fabrics.
STREET FLOOR MEN’S SECTION
