THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 24, 1927

Five Teams Selected by New Plan Will Meet Leading Institutions on Two Trips Contest With Davidson

For the collegiate year of 1927-28, the Davidson debating team has five of last year’s men back: Tyree Dillard, Leo
Pritchett, Henry Powell, Bob Grady, and W. K. Pritchett. The coming try-outs for this season’s debating squad will be held
on December 2nd. They will be in the manner of a five-minute talk on the subject: Resolved, that a uniform
system of marriage and divorce laws should be enacted by national legislation. By this system, all but ten of the
thirty men, who have signified their intention of trying out for the team, should see Henry Powell not later than
Thanksgiving. The squad is to be made up of five teams, each to be composed of two men. One of
these teams will be selected to defend Davidson's title in Shearer Hall against Rutgers College, April 2, and also William
and Mary and the University of Florida, sometime during the months of March and April. Another team will be selected
to make a trip south and meet the University of Florida at Gainesville, on March 13, also Emory University on
March 16, and Sewanee on March 15. At the same time the team leaves for the southern trip, another will
leave for the north, and will meet Hampden-Sidney on March 13, George Washington University on March 14, and the University
of Pittsburgh on the following day. The subject, which both of the teams making the trips are to use, will
be: “Resolved, that the United States should cease to protect, by force of arms, the capital invested in foreign lands
except after formal declaration of war.”

D. C. GLEE CLUB QUARTET CHOSEN

The quartet of the Davidson College Glee Club which has recently been selected, is composed of J. S. Foster, Winston-Salem,
baritone; J. S. Grey, Jr., Richmond, Va., first tenor; R. S. Lowrance, Atlanta, Ga., second tenor; and Procter Thompson, Davidson,
bass. The entire club is practicing regularly for the state meet in Durham, the club being in charge of Prof.
Ernest J. Cullum, musical director of the college.

We hesitate to make any predictions on the outcome of today’s game on Richardson Field. The Tar Heels proved last
week that the Duke team was not above defeat even more strongly than the State College team proved it. The
Blue Devils, however, will be determined to make a showing today. The Wildcats licked them last year, and the two
recent defeats which they have suffered this year will make them feel all the more “devilish.”

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see M. P. Crawford
QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Dr. Tigert Speaks Before Collegians

Dr. John J. Tigert, United States Commissioner of Education, will be a speaker before the Interfraternity Conference, when the organization
of American college fraternities begins its annual two-day session at the Hotel Pennsylvania on the meeting of more than 200
college country, on American educational problems. A feature of the first day’s session will be a luncheon at which Dr.
Francis W. Shepardson, vice-president of Phi Beta Kappa and former commissioner of education in Illinois, will be toastmaster. Judge William
R. Bayes, chairman of the Interfraternity Conference, will be a speaker. The Interfraternity Conference, established in 1909 at Chicago as
the result of activity on the part of President Wm. H. P. Faunce, of Brown, is the result of a
realization on the part of college fraternities of their common ideals and aims. Through the efforts of the conference, mutual
jealousies and rivalries have diminished and a clearer conception grown up of the modern fraternity as an adjunct to self-government
at American colleges and universities. Hamilton Wright Mabie was the first chairman of the conference. The conference has grown until
today it includes practically all the long-established fraternities in addition to many of the newer ones. Dr. Tigert will address
fraternity delegates from all parts of the country.

Statesville Riflemen Trophies Will be Awarded High-Point Men at End of Season

The Davidson College rifle team is progressing steadily in its match with Statesville. This match is being fired every Tuesday
night during the month of November, and the winner will be determined by the highest number of points made by
any man on any one night of firing. Several members of the Statesville team are men who might be termed
as “crack shots” since they have competed in the national rifle match, and are considered the best shots in this
part of the country. On the fifth of December, an innovation in rifle marksmanship at Davidson has been planned. An
open match, sponsored by the Davidson rifle team, and open to every man in the student body, will be held.
The student scoring the highest...{greatest number of points will be proclaimed the winner, and will be presented with a handsome
shield given by the rifle team. This shield is made of silver on a mahogany background and has inscribed on
it “Davidson Open Match.” On the top, there are crossed rifles. The student winning this trophy is allowed to keep
it for one year, after which time it will be competed for again in the same way. After Christmas, the
Scabbard and Blade will hold a match which is open to all men taking R.O.T.C. This match is to be
called the Scabbard and Blade trophy match and the winner will be presented with a gold medal on which are
crossed rifles and a bull’s eye. The winner is to be decided in the same way as in the other
matches. Three trips have been planned for the rifle team in the spring. These will be to Gastonia, Oak Ridge,
and V.M.I. On these trips, the members of the team who have made the highest scores will be taken, and
some keen rivalry is assured.

Valued Prizes Are Offered Freshmen in Essay Contest

A contest for university and college is to be held again this year. This contest, with prizes totaling $6,000, is
being conducted by the American Chemical Society during the 1927-28 season, essays being submitted not later than March 1. In
order that those students who are just beginning their college work may have a more intimate knowledge of chemistry, and
that they may realize the relation between the sciences and the activities of our present civilization, the American Chemical Society
has established an essay contest for the college first-year men. This contest, which was made possible by Mr. and Mrs.
Francis P. Garvan, of New York, was conducted last year upon the same basis and was exceedingly popular, with many
thousands of essays being written on the subjects proposed by the contest committee. The same questions which were used last
year will again make the Freshmen “sit up and take notice” as well as sit down and write. These questions,
which are based on practical and useful knowledge, do not require a great amount of technical learning as will be
seen in the list of the questions for the year which are printed below:

1. The relation of Chemistry to the Enrichment of Life.
2. The relation of Chemistry to Agriculture and Forestry.
3. The relation of Chemistry to Health and Disease.
4. The relation of Chemistry to National Defense.
5. The relation of Chemistry to the Home.
6. The relation of Chemistry to the Development of an Industry on a Resource of the United States.

Last year six prizes of $1,000 were awarded but the society decided that it would be more practical and would
arouse greater interest in offering the prizes this year to divide the same amount of prize money into eighteen different
prizes, six each of $500, $300, and $200. Information in the form of pamphlets has been received by the professors
here and they are anxious that as many Freshmen as possible will enter. The reference books suggested by the society
as bearing on one of these subjects will be found either in the Chemical or Union Library.

ELECT OFFICERS (Continued from page 1)

Some Carolina school has ample opportunity to take the first prize again. The contestants are limited to twelve hundred words
in their oration, and only two hundred of these may be quoted words. Any subject may be used for the
speech. Last year Davidson failed to send a representative to the contest and no applicants have as yet appeared for
the preliminary try-outs. Anyone wishing to work to this end, or even to inquire further into the matter, should see
Henry Powell at some time during the next few days. A definite date has not yet been set for the
Davidson try-outs and they will probably not be held until after Christmas, but work is beginning on them at once.

She—"And when you go home I want you to think of me each evening at nine o'clock.”
He—“Make it 9:15, can’t you? I promised to think of Marden at nine.”

A college man is one who knows what she wants when she wants it—Montana Kaimin.

Ain't It a Grand and Glorious Feelin’?
By BRIGGS

WHEN YOUR BEST KEAV WANTS YOU TO MEET HIS FOLKS, AND INVITES YOU TO THEIR HOUSE FOR THANKSGIVING DINNER -
AND YOU WADE THROUGH TURKEY, CRANBERRY SAUCE, MINCE PIE, AND PLUM PUDDING

AND AFTER DESSERT YOU LONG TO SMOKE A CIGARETTE BUT ARE AFRAID OF SHOCKING HIS RELATIVES

AND HIS PARENTS EXPRESS THANKS FOR THEIR WEALTH

AND THEN HIS GRANDMOTHER ADMITS THAT HER CHIEF BLESSING COMES IN THE FORM OF OLD GOLDS

I'M THANKFUL THAT I'M BROAD MINDED ENOUGH TO SMOKE THEM

WHAT A RELIEF FOR MY OLD GOLD

The Smoother and Better Cigarette ... Not a cough in a carload © 1927, P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

OH-H- BOY AIN'T IT A GRAND AND GLORIOUS FEELIN'!?
