THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1927

ALUMNI NEWS

Alumni of Twenty-Five Heed Call of President
Members Send Information Requested to Alumni Secretary

Last fall J. P. Hendrix, alumni president of the class of 1925, sent out a letter to members of that group, enclosing a postal card, on which a reply was to be mailed to him, and addresses given. Within the past few days, the alumni secretary has received cards and letters from those who responded, and from it the following facts have been gleaned:

E. C. Moomaw is in Miami, Fla., having safely weathered the first real estate boom and the hurricane. His address is Box 2672, and he is working with the Phoenix Utility Company.

J. E. Singletary was formerly with the Kress Stores at Greenville, S. C., living up to the motto of “Nothing over ’25,” he said. He is now connected with the commercial department of the Southern Public Utilities Co., and can be found at 6 McDavid Apts.

J. M. Williams, formerly of Niagara Falls, N. Y., is located at Welland, Ontario, Canada, care of Electric Metallurgical Co. Four Davidson men are now at Niagara Falls, N. Y., he says.

J. M. Trotter is at the Independence Trust Co., Charlotte.

H. A. Townsend is teaching school near Gibson, N. C. He was married to Miss Ruth Southard, of Blenheim, S. C., on August 24th.

E. Calhoun is located at North Wilkesboro, N. C.

M. S. McIlwaine is again a professor at McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn.

J. F. Milhous is located at 66 N. Broad St., Atlanta, Ga., after being “put through the ropes” in New York, according to the way Jim expressed it.

J. A. Thompson is head of the Spanish department at Wake Forest and merits the title of “Professor.”

T. A. Guiton’s address is 2226 Greyland Ave. since he finished in 1925. He has married and has a young son born July 24, 1926, known as “Tag, Jr.” He says they are planning to enter him at Davidson.

R. G. White is with the L. & N. Railroad at Louisville, Ky., his street address being 1484 Cherokee Road.

F. R. Montgomery is at his home at Frankfort, Ky.

W. A. Ramsey is teaching at Tarboro, and along with M. E. Miller, ’26, are “upholding the masculine end of the faculty,” he wrote.

J. R. Gudger is attending the Medical College of Virginia, at Richmond, Va., his address being 114 S. Third St.

H. E. Wilkinson is in the accounting department of the White Furniture Co., at Mebane, N. C.

A. F. Simpson is now coach at his hometown, Washington, Ga., after attending the University of Georgia for one year.

J. H. McConnell, Jr., is at Asheville, Box 966.

O. J. Allison is cashier of the Aetna Life Insurance Co., at Columbia, S. C.

W. W. Purdy is teaching Spanish and directing music at McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Rev. L. C. Little is general secretary of the board of young people’s work for the Methodist Protestant church, his office being at Concord, N. C.

A. M. Martin, A. C. Wildman, and A. N. Moffett are both at Louisville Theological Seminary.

W. H. Hudson was in Asheville, 170 Montford Ave., having been there for his health a year. He was planning to go back to Raleigh and work with Robt. G. Lassiter & Co.

J. D. Baker is at 3225 Pine St., Jacksonville, Fla.

S. F. Bryant and J. M. Carr are both at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.

F. H. Lindley is teaching school at East Bend, N. C.

J. T. Hay, Jr., is working in the cotton broker business at Camden, S. C., and has a 13-month-old son. W. O. Hay is working in the textile business in New York.

P. M. Patterson is a part-time instructor at the University of North Carolina.

R. V. Liles is at his home at Lilesville, and is working with the Wade Manufacturing Co.

R. W. Walker is in the lumber business at Salisbury.

A. H. Mebane is with the First National Bank at Mebane, N. C.

Personal

J. R. Briggs, '25, left his home in Valdosta, Ga., Thursday, March 10th, for Seattle, Wash., from which point he will sail to Manila, Philippine Islands. He is with the International Banking Corporation, and will remain in the islands for four years. He has been in New York most of the time since graduation, studying for this work.

Rev. J. C. Fowle, ’18, pastor of a large church in St. Louis, Mo., was at Davidson for a short time Thursday, having preached for the congregation at Myers Park Church, in Charlotte, the night before. He was accompanied to the campus by S. T. Henderson, '17, who is located in Charlotte.

J. G. Patten, Jr., '16, has accepted a call to the church at Abingdon, Va. He has been pastor of the Pryor Street Church at Atlanta, Ga. He begins work in his new pastorate April 1st.

Rev. A. M. Mitchell, ’21, who has been pastor of the church at Selma, N. C., has accepted a call to Camilla, Ga., thirty miles from his home at Thomasville, Ga.

An honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity has been conferred by Rollins College upon Rev. J. B. Belk, '45. Mr. Belk is now preaching at Orlando, Fla.

During the past week, the alumni secretary has mailed to officers of associations having meetings this year, a percentage report of contributions from each organization. Statesville is leading with 45.5 percent of its members giving to this fund, while 35 percent of the members of the Davidson-Cornelius chapter have contributed.

Mr. R. T. Crawford, '14, was married on Thursday, February 24, to Miss Elizabeth Page at the First Presbyterian Church, in Charlotte.

Alumni will regret to learn of the death of Dr. W. C. Oates, '92, which occurred at Belmont, February 17th.

Rev. John W. Groves, '12, has resigned his pastorate of the church at Central City, Ky., to take some post-graduate work in Louisville Theological Seminary before entering Edinburgh University, in Scotland.

During the past week, the alumni secretary sent out a list of addresses to members of the class of 1926. It showed that the 90 men finishing here last June are scattered over 14 states, two foreign countries, and the District of Columbia.

Rev. D. W. Robert, ’21, was married to Miss Alice Edgett, at the Third Presbyterian Church at New Orleans, La., on February 16th.

From the universities come men trained for selling real estate in Florida and sewing machines in Patagonia; men who have taken the course in motor vehicle salesmanship, and men who are well equipped to detect scrub cattle. Even captains of the walnut industry, in California, have succeeded in having a course offered at the State University for walnut growers. And now a film school is being planned. With the financial reviews reporting the film industry is third in the country, there is a move afoot to include film production in the curriculum. President Nicholas Murray Butler announces that a faculty committee at Columbia University is considering the matter. At a luncheon of the Motion Picture Distributors of America, President Butler broadcasted the subject. He declared that he would make a definite announcement as soon as the faculty committee completes its report. A committee, appointed by Will Hays for the producers and by Dr. Butler for the University, will make a final report on the entire subject—New Student.

J. M. Selser is at Moultrie, Ga., and suggested a class fee of one dollar each to prepare for the reunion.In 1930, R. W. Oeland is at 58 Worth St., New York City. New at Val-Hill, “New York Alumni Group Convenes on March 11th Fourteen Members of Chapter York Alumni The New Davidson Association of enthusiastic College held a meeting in that city last Friday night, when they met at a dinner at the Advertising Club of New York. Due to conflicting dates, many of the Davidson men were unable to attend, but the fourteen who were present exhibited an enthusiasm which was as high as if the meeting had been held on the campus,” said the report of the president. W. P. Anderson, '07, was re-elected as president; H. A. Johnson, '02, was chosen as vice-president, and Hadley A. Hill, ’21, was re-elected to the office of secretary-treasurer. This is an excellent trio of officers, as shown by their foresight in setting Tuesday, November 15th, as the date for the next meeting. In addition to letters being read from Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson; Prof. J. P. Williams, a former member of that organization, and Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, a telegram was received from Davidson alumni at Princeton University this year. It was signed by Louis Schenck, '21; Tom Lowry, ’22; Henry Alexander, '26, and Rev. W. A. McIlwaine. Copies of the last issue of The Davidsonian were also distributed to the men.

Alumni present at the dinner in New York were: J. Barrington, '18; A. Young, '14; J. D. Woodside, '07; W. P. Anderson, ’07; J. B. Hunter, ’24; T. C. Barr, '26; C. A. Hart, '15; Hadley A. Hill, ’21; J. M. McCaskill, ’21; Dr. R. T. Reid, '08.

Two Score

During the past weekend, many Davidson College alumni returned to the campus. An effort was made to obtain the names of all here, but some may have been unavoidably omitted. The following classes, members of them, and their addresses are given, of the men who came back to Davidson:

1914—S. B. Woods, Charlotte.
1919—R. D. Hall, Belmont.
1920—C. H. Long, Winston-Salem.
1921—W. H. Miley, Cooleemee; J. E. Cassell, Gastonia; W. C. Gaither, Newton.
1922—R. W. Holmes, Lexington; J. R. Schenck, Salisbury.
1923—W. S. Shepherd, Winston-Salem; C. R. Crawford, Gastonia.
1924—J. I. Smith, Greenville, S. C.; D. J. Chipman, Winston-Salem; G. L. Irwin, Reidsville; J. A. Beaver, Salisbury; C. T. Overton, Salisbury; P. J. Story, Marion.
1925—H. I. Shepherd, Winston-Salem; R. E. Boggs, Gastonia; R. W. Wale, Salisbury; W. N. Robbins, Greenville, S. C.; T. F. Marrow, Charlotte; A. T. Rowe, Asheville.
1926—B. W. Williams, Greensboro; W. S. Adams, Charlotte; E. S. Christenbury, Kings Mountain; C. F. Smith, Gastonia; D. G. Wilson, Rock Hill, S. C.; A. S. Jones, Salisbury; G. F. Laird, Salisbury; W. B. Long, Charlotte; E. J. Lovelace, Wilson; M. B. Speir, Charlotte; W. Sparrow, Gastonia.
Ex-’27—W. K. Johnson, Ashboro.
Ex-’28—F. M. Grady, Clinton, N. C.; C. T. Stowe, Belmont; R. M. Crosland, Charlotte; Lawrence McNeil, Thomasville, N. C.

Laws (in Education class)—“Prof, I want to ask you a question about a tragedy.”
Prof—“Yes sir, Mr. Laws.”
Laws—“It’s about my grade.”
Ed Wilson—“There’s still one thing we can get for a nickel.”
Lowrance—“What is it?”
Wilson—“The wrong number.”

Here for Week-End

Devotional Bands Hold Fine Program

The regular meeting of the Christian Endeavor Training Class was held in Shearer Hall last Sunday afternoon under the leadership of Fred Poag. At the next meeting, there will be an election of officers of the class, and every member is urged to be present.

At the meeting of the Ministerial Band last Sunday, the members were addressed by Rev. Gaston Boyle, a missionary to Brazil. Mr. Boyle spoke on the subject "The Value of the Bible in Everyday Life." He advised the men who intended to become ministers to get into the habit of reading the Bible every day. He told of his method of study, that of memorizing many of the important parts of the Bible. He also told of many of his experiences among the natives of Brazil. One of these is a demonstration of the nature of the work being done there. While walking down the street in one of the smaller towns of Brazil, Mr. Boyle met a man who was going after a gun with which he intended to kill a man. Mr. Boyle talked to him and the outcome was that the man was converted, and the whole community was closed with a prayer. Dr. Harding closed the meeting with a prayer.

The 55th chapter of Isaiah served as a text for the Volunteer Band meeting. The main part of the meeting was an open forum discussion of Robert E. Speir’s pamphlet on "What Constitutes the Missionary Calling." Speer in his pamphlet claims that the calling of a man to be a missionary was not very different from the calling to any other profession. The main point of discussion, and the consensus of opinion, was that there is a distinction. The members of the Band discussed the fact that the calling to missionary work was on a higher plane than that of any other field of work. Another point in their discussion was the subject of disability and exemption from work in foreign fields.

SCORE OF STATE HIGH SCHOOLS

(Continued from page 1)

The Davidson freshman team will also be entered in the meet, but they will not be eligible to win the cup. Last year, Charlotte High School won the meet, nosing out the Davidson freshmen by a scant point and a half margin. Greensboro and Concord were runners-up. This is the first year that schools from the eastern part of the state have appeared on the local track, and their strength is an unknown quantity. Wilmington is reported to have strong prospects. All of the members of the visiting teams will be served lunch by the Davidson Athletic Association.

CONVERSE GLEE CLUB

(Continued from page 1)

The “Blue Bonnet Chorus” and “The Dagger Dance” were the features of this part of the program. Miss Carrie DuPre was the feature of this part of the program. Besides being in all of the choruses, Miss DuPre also gave a solo dance and was excellent in a tango dance with Miss Grace Williamson. Miss Marion Clark, president of the club, was another feature of the last part of the performance. Her solo “Indian Love Call” was very well received by the audience, and there was a long call for an encore which she refused to give. The glee club was sponsored by the Junior Class, under the special direction of the Junior Week Committee, with proceeds from the performance going to help defray expenses for Junior Week in April.

“Let Jer reign,” said the dying king as he bejeweled his finger at the colds.

Relieved with Vapors

Snuff Vicks up nose or melt in hot water and inhale vapors.

VICKS VAPORUB

OVER 21 MILLION JARS USED YEARLY

Fashion Park Clothes Exclusive, With Efird’s in Charlotte

New Collegiate Styles for Spring, $50.00

Just arrived, scores of smart suits for Spring. Correctly tailored of fine materials in blues, grays, tans, and mixtures. Loose sack coat, two or three buttons, single or double-breasted. Suits of quality in distinctive styles, exclusive with Efird’s in Charlotte.

FANCY SILK SOCKS 75c. PR.

MEN’S DEPT., STREET FLOOR