L * IOMIE COMING ISSUE =. THE DAVIDSONIAN [7 FOR A BETTER | DAVIDSON Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.
C., OCTOBER 28, 1927

Alumni Return To Campus For Gala Homecoming

DAVIDSON-CADET AFFAIR HOLDS INTEREST ON EVE OF CONFLICT

Virginia Aggregation to Test Wildcat Strength in Encounter Saturday

Flying Squadron Holds Edge Over Davidson Cats

TEAMS ARE PRIMED

Cadets Still Boast Famous Barnes-Nabers Aerial Combination—Other Veterans Back at V. M. I.

The Davidson College Wildcats, after having had their claws somewhat dulled from fighting the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest last
Saturday, have been suffering a manicure during this week in preparation for one of the biggest tilts of the season
when they meet the Cadets of V. M. I., on Richardson Field, in the feature of the annual Davidson Homecoming
Day.

The Davidson team did not show up as expected in the last game and the resulting tie came as a
surprise to many of their supporters, although the game was expected to be a close affair. The team was somewhat
demoralized due to a host of injuries to the regulars, but some fans think that the setback will do them
good as they have enjoyed a very successful season so far, and a grim realization may be the result of
the game.

One of the greatest crowds that has ever assembled in the city of Davidson will be on hand for the
game Saturday. Many of the alumni of Davidson College will be on hand for the festivities, while the loyal supporters
of the Virginia school will probably flock down from the neighboring state to see the fracas. Others in this section
who will be interested will see the game because of the promise of a great game and a resumption of
a fight the two teams staged last year in Lynchburg.

Last year the teams played in the Virginia city, the Wildcats coming out on the little end of a 12-7
score which was due largely to the attack of two Cadet backs in the combination of Barnes and Nabors. These
two men took the game from the Wildcats when it looked as though they were the victors, and this same
combination has been attracting attention this season.

(Continued on page 8)

Extraordinary Features on Stunt Night Program

Program Will Consist of Twelve Complete Acts.

Plans are now practically completed which promise that Stunt Night at Davidson this year will be bigger and better than
ever before. Under the direction of the Glee Club, the sponsorship of Professors Cullum and Erwin, and the co-operation of
the campus organizations and many outsiders, 12 big acts, each a separate and individual performance, have been arranged. The participants
in the program will include the Glee Club, the Red and Black Masquers, the Jazz Orchestra, and many individuals.

The Red and Black Masquers will present a one-act play which will occupy the first 20 or 25 minutes of
the program. This play (Continued on page 8)

Sprint Star Here for Talk Tonight

Tonight, Charlie Paddock, the fastest human on earth, will speak in Shearer Hall on the subject of “Playing the Game.”
Paddock is brought here under the auspices of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. and will probably appear on the
cinder track for an exhibition some time this afternoon.

This world-renowned track star holds 38 out of a possible 40 records for short distance running. Since 1920, when he
shattered his first world’s record on the cinder-path, he has established 17 world sprint records, his last track brilliance being
at Los Angeles in May, 1926, when he stepped off the 100 yards in nine and one-half seconds. Later in
the same year he shattered the 250 meter record.

Paddock has been a member of America’s successful Olympic teams and has defeated the fastest racing talent in the world.
But besides this, he has had a varied experience. He has been a cowboy on a western ranch, a movie
star, a soldier of the A. E. F., a Sunday School teacher and a globe trotter. His best known movie
work was with Bebe Daniels in “The Campus Flirt.” He began teaching Sunday School at the age of fifteen and
continues to teach his class of young men when he is at his home in Pasadena, Calif.

For several years Paddock has been a special writer for a large group of western dailies and this work has
thrown him in contact with leading personalities in this country and in Europe. He made a tour of the world
in 1924 in friendly competition with leading athletes of eight nations. Those who have been in close relations with this
phenomenal star say that he has been able to continue his participation in this most strenuous of sports for seven
years because of clean living and honorable sportsmanship.

Glasgow Lectures to “Y” Audience

Those who attended the Y Vesper service Sunday evening heard “Tom” Glasgow, as Davidson affectionately calls him, in what was
the most gripping talk of the year. Dr. Arbuckle paid him a glowing tribute in introducing him, when he said,
of all the conspicuous Christian leaders in Charlotte, Tom Glasgow is the most loved.

On rising, Mr. Glasgow began: “I’d break almost any engagement to speak to the Davidson student body. Why? Because I
consider in so doing, I’m having a part in forming the future of the Southland. Fellows, I admire your spirit
of cleanness, your fine sportsmanship, your love of fair play. There is an atmosphere here that one does not find
elsewhere. Perhaps every one who speaks here tells you that, but I respect it because I think it’s the finest
thing you have. Your school can lose many other things but it cannot afford to lose its admirable morale. Consider
well that a school cannot be built with marble or granite alone. It is judged by the product it puts
forth to blossom in the world.”

The topic for his talk was, “Find Me a Man.” “Find me a man,” he said, “a level-headed fine Christian
man.” “Perhaps the fundamental requirements that this man must (Continued on page 3)

LEADS WILDCATS

Dick Grey

Wildcat Captain Holds Name of Triple-Threat Player, Par Excellence

Given Place on All-State Team in 1926 by Sport Scribes of North Carolina

When Captain Dick Grey enters the game against V. M. I. tomorrow, it will be the twenty-sixth time that he
has played on Davidson’s Varsity. For three years he has thrilled crowds throughout the Southby demonstrations of his triple-threat ability.
Much credit was due him when the Wildcats won the State Championship last year for his educated toe, which he
used in sending the ball through the goal-posts for six perfect drop-kicks. Twice these three points won games—from P. C.
and N. C. State—and another caused a tie with Wake Forest. Not only does he use his toe in drop-kicking
but he bears the brunt of the punting for the Presbyterian team. All during last season his punts averaged some
45 yards. Grey does not hesitate to take advantage of an opportunity to run with the ball for during the
recent game with Elon, of 512 gained by the team, the captain gained 290. He hurried through the Elon line
for one run of 54 yards for the first touchdown of the game. It is a rare sight to see
an opposing player get by Dick Grey who holds down the safety position in great style. He is ready for
every punt and often makes returns of from 35 to 50 yards. The Wildcats’ leader had never tasted defeat in
a football game until his sophomore year in college. During his prep school days

Phi Beta Extends Bids to Graduates

Announcement was made Wednesday by Prof. K. J. Foreman, secretary of the North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa,
national scholastic organization, that of the alumni bids to membership extended, the following have accepted: Dr. F. W. Rankin, Rochester,
Minn.; Dr. Joseph T. Wearn, Cambridge, Mass.; Rev. Locke White, Staunton, Va.; Dr. W. H. Rogers, Ph.D., Tallahassee, Fla.; Prof.
F. P. Hall, Belmont, N. C.; Prof. Archibald Currie, Davidson, and Prof. Henry T. Lilly, Davidson. This statement follows the
acceptance of bids by five men in the present student body, those being D. H. Howard, Lynchburg, Va.; H. B.
Arbuckle, Davidson; C. G. Davidson, Chester, S. C.; J. S. Grey, Richmond, Va.; J. S. McAllister, Greensboro, N. C. Initiation
of these men will take place on December 9th, when a distinguished speaker will be provided for the ceremony.

Dr. F. W. Rankin, of the class of 1905, is now on the permanent surgical staff of the Mayo Clinic,
at Rochester. Following his graduation at Davidson, he entered the University of Maryland, where he received his M.D., after which
he accepted a professorship in the University. Dr. Rankin was in the University Hospital and later in the Baltimore City
Hospital. With the outbreak of the World War, he entered the service and was with the First Division of the
A. E. F., serving through Chateau-Thierry, Soissons, St. Mihiel, and Argonne. After the war his work was in the City
Hospital of Louisville, Ky., where he remained for some time. Holding a permanent position in the Mayo Clinic, Dr. Rankin
is considered as one of the foremost surgeons in the United States.

Dr. Joseph T. Wearn, 1913, received his M.D. degree at Harvard University, following his stay at Davidson. He served with
the U. S. Army during 1917-18, after which he was made Professor of Pharmacology in the University of Pennsylvania. Dr.
Wearn (Continued on page 6)

PROGRAM FOR SATURDAY

11:00 A. M.—Parade by R. O. T. C. Battalion.
11:15 A. M.—Exercises in Stadium.
1. Singing of “O Davidson.”
2. Addresses of Welcome: Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the College. Harllee Branch, Jr., ’27.
3. Speech: Dr. J. P. Munroe, ’82, of Charlotte, N. C.
4. Speech: Mr. J. J. Love, '19, of Quincy, Florida.
5. Speech: Rev. W. T. Thompson, D. D., '05, of Richmond, Va.
6. Summary of Season: Oren Moore, '08, of Charlotte, N. C.
1:00 P. M.—Luncheon in Gymnasium for Alumni and their Wives.
2:30 P. M.—Davidson-V. M. I. Game on Richardson Field.
7:00 P. M.—“Stunt Night” in Shearer Hall.

(Continued on page 7)

Luncheon in Gymnasium for Exes and Wives is Innovation on Program

Talks to Feature Outdoor Exercises

STUNT NIGHT TOO

Hundreds of Old Grads to Make Way Back to Jaybirdsville Tomorrow

Saturday will witness the return of hundreds of old graduates who will visit the campus to renew acquaintances and to
exchange reminiscences of their undergraduate life. It’s the annual Home-coming Day. Through the efforts of the alumni secretary a record
crowd is expected, and an elaborate program has been arranged for their entertainment. This program, which contains many innovations, will
start at 11 o'clock in the morning with a parade by the R. O. T. C. Battalion, and will continue
throughout the rest of the day, ending with the “Stunt Night” program at 7:00 o'clock in the evening. Immediately following
the morning parade, the students and alumni will assemble in the stadium, where appropriate exercises, including brief addresses by a
number of prominent alumni, will be held. The singing of “O Davidson” will open these exercises, and then welcoming addresses
will be given by Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college, and Harllee Branch, Jr., assistant alumni secretary, after
which Dr. J. P. Munroe, ’82, of Charlotte, N. C., will tell “How the Wildcats Licked Teams in Olden Days;”
J. J. Love, '19, of Quincy, Fla., will bring the Florida game back to Davidson in “How Davidson Clawed the
Alligator,” and Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., '05, of Richmond, Va., will dare a prophecy in “What V. M. I.
is Going to Do to the Wildcats This Afternoon.” Dr. Oren Moore, '08, of Charlotte, N. C., will give a
brief summary of the year thus far in “How the Wildcats Have Been Winning This Season.” At 1:00 o'clock luncheon
will be served in the gymnasium to all of the alumni and their wives. This is the first time the
Home-coming (Continued on page 5)

Juniors Abolish Easter Holiday Affair by Vote

Speaking Program Changed to Later Date in April

After spending several weeks in the consideration of the Junior Speaking question, the class of 1929 decided that the custom
set by previous classes was not to be accepted by the promoters of the function for this year. The affair
will not be held during the spring holidays as heretofore, but will occur during some week-end, the suggested date being
April 28th. The plan, as presented by Riggs McConnell and accepted by the class, calls for the Junior Oratorical Contest
in Shearer Hall on the night of April 27th. This contest, which was won by John McKnight last year, is
open for all members of the Junior class. (Continued on page 8).
