Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 29, 1927

PEANUT PARCHER

A certain busy printer, whose time is worth money, has a good method of dealing with barbers. As soon as he is seated in the chair, he says: “Cut all three short.” “What three, sir?” asks the barber. “Hair, whiskers, and chatter,” replies the printer. —Lafayette Lyre.

Bartender: What do yer want wid yer sandwiches? Bar-spender: I allus did like bread wid my sandwiches. —Stevens Stone Mill.

“This is the last straw,” said the soda jerker. —Stevens Stone Mill.

“Have you seen Jane’s dress?” “Well—now and then.” —Dartmouth Jack o’Lantern.

THE ONLY WAY “Have any luck with the races this year?” “Yes, I didn’t play them!” —Utah Humbug.

John D. has another million in sight since axle grease bathing suits have been proposed. —Ohio State Sun Dial.

Never tell a woman that a thing is as plain as the nose on her face. —Denison Flamingo.

Alf: Here it is running on two days now and I told the wife explicitly I’d be home before dark. —Yale Record.

“Darling, I will love you perpetually, eternally, ceaselessly, everlastingly.” “Yes, but how long will you love me?” —Louisville Satyr.

Here rests Ed Munn, A man of power. Born in 1901 And died at 85. (Miles an hour.) —Lafayette Lyre.

“Are all those your kids?” “Yep; I’m the goat.” —Rice Owl.

Priscilla says it isn’t the cost of short skirts that bothers her, it’s the upcreep. —Grinnell Malteaser.

“What are you taking at college?” “Everything not nailed down.” —Mink.

“You say you call your girl your stepmother?” “No, my stop-mamma.” —Pomona Sagehen.

“Man, where did you get those black eyes?” “It’s this way, Sam—I’m going to a masquerade tonight and couldn’t afford a mask.” —Ohio State Sun Dial.

Was she built? Boy, her father didn’t have to go to school to be an architect.

HOW TO GET A COON COAT Go to north woods. Prepare Christmas dinner. Invite all the raccoons in north woods. Secure a member of the Miami Chamber of Commerce to make an after-dinner speech. Coons will realize that they are wasting their time in the woods. Will decide to go to Florida. Will borrow money and leave skins as security as they won't need them in Florida anyway. Coons will go broke in Florida. Won't be able to redeem skins. Use some of the skins for your coon coat. Sell others at big profit. Make big money and get coon coat also. —Carnegie Puppet.

People who live in glass houses must not do Salomes. —Carnegie Puppet.

Many a woman has shown too much of herself through the holes in a breach of promise suit. —Yale Record.

Mac Tonsils: I got my whiskers on the installment plan. Adenoids: The installment plan? Tonsils: Yes, a little down each week. —Middlebury Blue Baboon.

If looks could kill, a good many mirrors would be up for murder. —U. of Wash. Columns.

A fat girl needs no other protection. —Mugwump.

Overworked Oscar says: “What this country needs is officials to shoot the men who smoke the five cent cigars.” —Wash. Cougar’s Paw.

Boy, walking into cigar store: Let me be your salesman. I’m the best salesman in the world. “All right, take a dozen boxes out and sell them.” The boy tried hard to make a sale, but nobody wanted the cigars. He then goes back to the...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure, punctuation, and meaning of the OCR text provided.storekeeper with an apology, “I’m the second best salesman; the man that sold you these cigars was the best.” —Colby White Mule.

“How do you like my new shoes?” “They look great.” —Wedfoot.

Life: A pickle sandwich between two eternities. —Mugwump.

“Is she pretty? Say, boy, she’s so good looking that she can walk down University Avenue at noon and not a single fellow will know the color of her stockings.” —U. of S. Calif. Wampus.

Did you ever hear about the absent-minded prof who fell in while boating and sank twice before he remembered he could swim? —Grinnell Masteaser.

“Why do they make the students wear gowns in chapel?” “They have to have something to sleep in.” —Sewanee Mountain Goat.

“Was it a good lynching?” “No, very poorly executed.” —Williams Purple Cow.

WHO’S WHO IN SERVICE AND QUALITY
CITY DRY CLEANERS
W. L. HOBBS, Prop.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Represented by Neely and McCravey, 108 West
Will Call on You Monday and Thursday Nights.
We Strive to Please

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock--Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
CREDENZA, $300.00
Charlotte, N. C.

New in the form of Junior Speaking will be brought out next spring.

At a class meeting held Monday morning, a motion was made by Bill Hill that three representative committees be appointed, and that these committees work on some plan for entertainment during Junior Speaking. Each of the three committees is to submit a plan and a straw vote will then be taken to decide which of the plans is favorable to the class. Then a committee is to be appointed to work out the details of the plan, and after two days it must be passed by a two-thirds majority of the class before becoming final. Mr. Hill’s motion was passed by the class.

Mac King, class president, has appointed committees as follows:
Committee No. 1—Bill Hill, chairman; W. K. Pritchett, Reid Graham, G. A. Fry, Frank Hall, Tom Hill.
No. 2—Raymond Lake, chairman; John Melton, R. R. Cane, John Moriarty, Charlie Albright, Hamp St. Clair.
No. 3—Jack Causey, chairman; L. D. Kirkland, M. T. Gilmour, H. A. Knox, R. S. Abernathy, and B. O. Gene.

These committees will get to work at once and present their plans to the class within the next few days, and action will be taken on them.

ACTIVITIES SCHEDULE
(Sanctioned by Honorary Fraternity Council)

Weeks of
September 25
October 9
October 23
November 6
November 20
December 4
December 18

Monday
7:00—Glee Club
7:30—Court of Control
9:00—O. D. K.

Tuesday
Glee Club
Sigma Pi Sigma

Wednesday
Glee Club
Phi and Eu Societies

Thursday
Court of Control
D. P. K.
Scabbard and Blade

Friday
G. S. E.

ON ALTERNATE WEEKS

Monday
7:00—Glee Club
7:30—Court of Control
9:00—O. P. A.

Tuesday
Pan Hellenic

Wednesday
Glee Club
Biology Club

Thursday
I. R. C.
Phi and Eu Societies

Friday
Student Council
Sigma Upsilon