“THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 29, 1927

Brown and Grey are favorites this year, and all the approved shades are featured in our “collegiate” model suits.
$35 to $55
TATE-BROWN CO.

CAROLINA Theatre
STARTING THURSDAY FOR THREE DAYS
“ONE HOUR OF LOVE”
and Four Acts Keith Vaudeville

MON., TUES., WED. Oct. 3, 4, 5
THE ROUGH RIDERS
With Wallace Beery, Geo. Bancroft
—News and Comedy—

Come to See Us for Your Shoes, Shirts, Ties, Hats, and Caps. New shipments received weekly. Come in and give us a trial. Your business always appreciated.
THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, Oct. 3 and 4
Loves of Carmen, with Dolores Del Rio
WEDNESDAY, Oct. 5
Lois Wilson and Bert Lytell, alias the Lone Wolf
THURSDAY, Oct. 6
“Rough Riders,” a Paramount Special
FRIDAY, Oct. 7
Richard Dix in Shanghai Bound
SATURDAY, Oct. 8
Buck Jones in Chain Lightning

PROMINENT LAWYER (Continued from page one)
Here Colonel Kirkpatrick took up the question of the progressiveness of the church, the part it takes in the community life, the part it plays in the individual life. He stated that the church should lead in the economic questions of the day; that the church should be the leader in education, in recreation, in government, and administration. At this point, the speaker presented his central plea, namely, that we make our ideal Christianity a practical Christianity. The Son of God came into the world to heal the sick, to make the blind to see, the lame to walk, and to minister to the poor. The last thing which the New Testament says was the purpose of Christ was to preach. The speaker wonders if we haven't put the practical side of the religion in the last and have put preaching to the front. He brought to the attention of the audience many of the conditions existing in North Carolina today. He said there are 33 chaingangs in this state, consisting of 1,521 men, 15 per cent of whom are from 15 to 21 years of age, with a very small per cent of them boasting of any education. He advocates the founding of schools in which the citizenship of these younger men can be conserved rather than making confirmed criminals of them by throwing them into company with hardened men.

The later part of Colonel Kirkpatrick’s speech was concerned with the stability of the Bible. It has stood the test of nearly 3,000 years and is the only book of religion and theology to stand the scrutiny and close study of intellect. The more thoroughly the Bible is studied the more intensely is it appreciated.

DICK GREY LEADS (Continued from page 1)
had possession of the ball on their own 40-yard line when Harrison got loose on a sprint around the right flank for 25 yards. A series of gains largely by Nisbet and Harrison put the ball 16 yards from the Citadel goal and it was then that Dick Grey calmly stepped back and booted squarely between the uprights for the first three points. The remainder of the first half was marked by settled scrimmage near the middle of the field. After the second half had gotten under way the Davidson team started another journey toward the seemingly distant goal of the Bulldogs. After a march of 43 yards the would-be touchdown failed to register as the forward defense of the Blue and White team took a new lease on life and Nisbet bounced off as he drove against the line in an attempt to make a yard on the last down. The ball went over and the Citadel chose to kick out of danger, but Jim Grey seeped through and blocked the punt, McConnell covering it for the remainder of the five-point score. The Citadel showed signs of gaining ground only to lose the ball on an”intercepted pass. Again the Red and Black team started a rush but made a fumble which practically annihilated any further chance to score, and the latter part of the game was a see-saw affair between the two teams, no great gains being executed by either team. In the last part of the game, Jim Grey, who had been playing a great game at center, fell and was carried from the field with what was reported to be a broken arm, but since then the injury was diagnosed to be badly strained ligaments which will keep him out of the line-up for a few games and will prove a great loss to the “Thin Red Line.” Aside from this, there were no injuries. The forward defense of the Davidson team showed up surprisingly strong in the opening game and were able to open creditable holes in the opponents most of the time. Melton, at guard, was one of the fastest men and did fast work on the defense. Arrowood was a stubborn obstacle in the way of the Bulldog end runs. Letwich played a nice game also. In the backfield, Nisbet and Harrison furnished most of the thrills for the 4,000 spectators that filled the Gastonia High School Stadium. Nisbet exhibited a drive through the line that was both spectacular and consistent. Harrison sped through and around the Bulldogs for good gains all through the game. Duvall and Captain Blanding were the most outstanding men on the Citadel team. The line-up and summary:

The Citadel Position Davidson
Ferguson --- LE --- Arrowood
King, B. --- LT --- McConnell
Arnold --- LG --- Laws
Skelton --- Center --- Grey, J.
Wideman --- RG --- McColgan
Figg --- RT --- Melton
King, R. --- RE --- Wearn
Blanding (C) --- QB --- Wilson
Duvall --- LH --- Grey, R. (C)
Hasselmeyer --- RH --- Harrison
Ingram --- FB --- Nisbet

Score by quarters:
Citadel --- 0 0 0 0 - 0
Davidson --- 0 3 2 0 - 5

Substitutions:
For Citadel—Howie for Ingram; Wood for Ferguson; Hunt for Laws; Kell for Flinn; Hewlitt for Kell. Officials: Hartsell (N. C. State), referee; Von Glahn (Maryland), umpire; Norman (Roanoke), headlinesman; Rawson (Georgia), timekeeper.

AN ESSEX Speedabout To SOME COLLEGE ARTIST

An Essex Speedabout with a special paint job, as first prize—a precision Gruen Pentagon Watch, the latest Paladin model, as second prize, and seventy-five other prizes of artists’ supplies by Eugene Dietzgen Company will be awarded by COLLEGE HUMOR to the college artists submitting the best original drawings before January 15, 1928. Drawings may be done in any medium in black and white. Several drawings may be submitted if return postage accompanies each drawing. Three famous artists, James Montgomery Flagg, Gaar Williams, and Arthur William Brown, will judge the drawings. In case of a tie, two Essex cars will be awarded. Other drawings, if accepted, will be paid for at regular rates. See the new Essex Speedabout you may win at For complete details see a copy of COLLEGE HUMOR now on sale on the news-stands. Drawings should be sent immediately to the Art Contest Editor.

IMPERIAL

The First of the Big Six

LILLIAN GISH IN “ANNIE LAURIE”

You'll love this picture as you love the song. A production of breath-taking magnificence, a romance of unforgettable beauty.

The Second of the Big Six

Chester Conklin, George Bancroft in “Tell It To Sweeney”

The laughs are coming. This is the best comedy team in many seasons. Don’t miss it.

Expert advice, Efficient service, Fair adjustments, Prompt Settlement

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY INSURANCE DEPARTMENT CHARLOTTE, N. C.

McALISTER CARSON (13) Mgr. M. B. SPEIR, JR. (26)

Incorporated MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS Mooresville, N. C.

CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS