THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1927

Meet in the park;
Hugs and kisses—
Two days later

Mr. and Mrs. Jim Gallant—“Do you believe in the power of prayer?”
She—“I would have if you had left an hour ago.”

George White Again
but it was evident that her heart was in the right place
She was only a chorus girl

Story in Verse
Now rabbits all have shiny noses,
I’m telling you this like a friend:
And the reason their noses are shiny,
Is their powder puff’s on the wrong end.

Hats off to the Scotchman who wanted to marry in the poultry yard so the rice wouldn’t be wasted.

“Oh, I'm just dying to taste of that track meat I’ve heard so much talk about,” said the fair young Zeta Beta bid, as she sat down to the dinner table.

Bill Gillett says that when he marries his girl will have to be blindly in love — which seems obvious.

The College Spirit
Yonan—“Have you a cigarette, Norwood?”
Norwood—“Yes, plenty thank you.”
Hansel—“I got my education at Davidson.”
Moss Man—“Sue ‘em brother, sue ’em.”

Private Shambors was issued his first pair of hobnails after boarding a vessel for overseas. “Thar’s one thing about it,” he says, “If ah has to go down, ah sho will go down at ’tenshion.”

LOST—A Fountain Pen, Waterman (gold) on March 23. Please hand in to Watkins Drug Store on Main street.

Ellet (at table)—“Slide the cow down this way.”
Harrell—“Yeah, lead the cow down to where the calf is bawling.”

Mother—“Come here Willie, I have something grand to tell you.”
Willie—“Aw, I know. Brother is home from college.”
Mother—“But Willie, who told you?”
Willie—“Nobody. My bank wouldn’t rattle any more.”

Feeenmire—“What is that that smells so funny in the library?”
Sophomore—“It must be the dead silence they keep in there all the time.”

It’s easy enough to be pleasant
When life’s going merrily around,
But the guy worth his chaff
Is the man who can laugh
When his garter’s coming down.

wailed the absent-minded professor as he peeked into the hair brush instead of the hand mirror. “I need a shave,”

Famous Men
The fireman’s daughter may be a red-hot mamma, but it takes the ice man to cool her down.

“Rastus, what’s yo’ gal doin’ now?”
“Man, dat gal’s teaching school. But she ain’t got no principal at all.”

Dick Flinn (in Sunday School class)—“Well, boys, my shot gun gave out a big roar and there in front of us lay a dead wolf.”
Interested Pupil—“How long had it been dead?”

What’s Wrong?
Woman wants day work. Man wants night job. Call Mr. and Mrs. Smith.

Father—“The man that marries my daughter will get a prize.”
Bill Wood—“May I see it please?”

Judge—“Before you are hung do you have a last request to make?”
Barber—“Yes, your honor, I’d like to shave the prosecuting attorney just once.”

TWO RECORDS SHATTERED (Continued from page 1)
places in the meet, as did Brohard, and Whittle, Perkinson, Peterson who composed the relay team. High schools represented and points scored follow: Charlotte, 75 1-5; Greensboro, 31; Wilmington, 25 1-5; High Point, 10 1-5; Concord, 10; Salisbury, 8 1-5; Barium Springs, 8; Raleigh, 8; Statesville, 6 1-5; Gastonia, 5; Cherryville, 2; Thomasville Orphanage, 1; Fayetteville, 0; Dallas, 0; Huntersville, 0.

This meet was sponsored by the Athletic Association and was carried out by the “D” Club in utter exactness.Davidson

All events were carried out with regularity, quite unusual for a track meet. Coach Tex Tilson was in charge of affairs and Coach Younger acted as starter of all the races. A summary of the events follows:

100 yard dash—Farmer, Wilmington; Craver, Charlotte; Miller, Charlotte; Hancock, Wilmington; Grier, Gastonia; time, 10 3-5 seconds.

880 yard run—Carbine, Charlotte; Phoenix, Greensboro; O'Neill, Charlotte; Clarke, High Point; Hodges, Salisbury; time, 2 minutes 8 4-5 seconds.

120 yard high hurdles—Milstead, Charlotte; Reid, Charlotte; Brittain, Wilmington; time, 17 seconds.

220 yard dash—Craver, Charlotte; Grier, Gastonia; Gorham, Raleigh; Carson, Statesville; time, 24 1-5 seconds.

One mile run—Phoenix, Greensboro; Johnson, Raleigh; Fisher, Salisbury; Troutman, Statesville; Ferris, Charlotte; time, 4 minutes 56 2-5 seconds.

220 yard low hurdles—Milstead, Charlotte; Houser, Cherryville; Brittain, Wilmington; Reid, Charlotte; time, 28 1-5 seconds.

440 yard run—Woodside, Charlotte; Bennett, Wilmington; Weaver, Greensboro; G. Charlotte; Moore, Statesville; time, 56 9-10 seconds.

Shot put—Brown, Greensboro; Laslie, Charlotte; Hoover, Concord; Hupplesen, Wilmington; Gray, Thomasville; distance, 43 feet.

Pole vault—Neiman, Charlotte; Hunt, Barium Springs; Brock, Barium Springs; Barker, Salisbury; T. Heuston, Charlotte; height, 10 feet 8 inches (new state record).

Discus throw—Brown, Greensboro; Hoover, Concord; Stone, Greensboro; Davie, High Point; Hutchison, Wilmington; distance, 120 feet (new state record).

High jump—Bagby, Charlotte; Bennett, Wilmington; five men tying for third, fourth, and fifth: Rankin, Wilmington; Neiman, Charlotte; Ellis, Statesville; Davis, High Point; McCall, Salisbury; height, 5 feet 6 inches.

Javelin throw—Brown, Greensboro; Laslie, Charlotte; Davis, High Point; Roper, High Point; Lipscomb, Greensboro; distance, 150 feet 1 inch.

Broad jump—Woodside, Charlotte; Neiman, Charlotte; Littaker, Barium Springs; Paris, Concord; Brock, Raleigh; distance, 20 feet 4 inches.

One mile relay—Davidson School; Charlotte; Wilmington; High Point; time, 3 minutes 45 seconds.

(Group watching sharks at billiard table)

Camel is its own reason for success

THERE is just one reason why Camel is the most popular smoke in all the world—why it leads in favor all cigarettes of all time. It is the one cigarette that will stand up all day and as far into the night as you care to go. You can smoke one or a million in daylight or dark and Camels will never tire your taste or leave a cigaretty after-taste.

©1927 R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

Camels are rolled of such choice tobaccos, are so skillfully blended that there simply can be no better cigarette made. And that stands, regardless of the price you pay. If you want the choice of the world’s experienced smokers, the mellowest mildness that ever came from a cigarette—‘Have a Camel!’

Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N.C.

CREDENZA, $300.00

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
15 E. Trade St.
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see VERNON S. BROYLES
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES

Vogue
THE SHOP FOR MEN
CHARLOTTE
Campus Representative, R. B. MCQUEEN

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
$95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS
Stetson Shoes, Adler Collegian Clothes
Complete line of High-Grade Haberdashery