THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927

DYNAMIC “DROOPY” HUDGINS

Droop, Son of Hudgins, Realizes Ambition Cherished by Him Since Childhood Days

“Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them,” but never before in the history of Davidson College has there been one man listed among the ranks of the students who stood out head and shoulders above the rest, as does Frank Esquidge Hudgins, Jr., who may be said to be the outstanding representative of that fair metropolis, Bluefield, W. Va. Never before has there been one who might be given the title of “great” or even “near-great” until this bright Easter Season. Never before has there been one who was not only born great, but also achieved more greatness and then had some more greatness thrust upon him.

The answer to this problem as to why all this, is not hidden behind a veil of intangible darkness but is evident to the least observant—DROOP HAS “IT!” Droop has been chosen the May King of fair Davidson and rightly so, for never has there been a more magnanimous spirit sent out from the bounds of that land of blue grass, bootleggers, and blacksmiths. Such an honor as has been bestowed upon the delicate brow of that droopy one, comes not as a surprise to those beloved ones of the honored one for ever since his first cry, ever since his very first breath was taken there has been gladness and polity in the land because of the arising of one of the most noble expounders and exemplifiers of “IT” in the history of human progress. To think that Droop has realized a life-long ambition is but to trace the de- (Continued on page 12)

WHY LEAVE TOWN

For anything a well-rounded department store should supply? Our line of dry goods and notions offers a wide choice.

WE HAVE shoes and hosiery that will satisfy a discriminating eye.

OUR LINE of staple and fancy groceries will supply your table, no matter what the occasion.

LOOK over our furniture department before buying elsewhere. Here you will find furniture for the entire home---rugs that charm, simple decorations that reflect good taste are to be found here.

IN THE LINE OF hardware we can satisfy your needs, large or small.

TRY US

M. H. Goodrum & Co.
DAVIDSON

Famous Son of Davidson With Psychic Attributes Tops Other Dapper Dans

Fleming Loses in Last Moment—McSwain Third

McALISTER TRAILS

Feminine Supporters Fail Tiny Heart-breaker at Last Moment—Tucker Comes Last

Sound ye drums! Crash ye cymbals! Blow ye trumpets at the city gates! For “Droopy,” mightiest of “the third floor,” arrow color model, a big button man from the vest, the only fly in any woman's ointment, shall be king of the May. Swaying vast throngs of voters by mysterious psychic power, displaying his irresistible qualities on every billboard and silver screen of the nation, backed by the leading political party of this globe (the Third Floor of East), Hudgins, as a strong man running a race, trailed for days, laughed up his sleeve, and then in a final stupendous finish burst across the finish line polling 61,823 1-2 votes.

“Flaming Youth” Memming, jungle man of the Andes, led until the final moments of play, when it was reported that he was a grass widower. Whereupon the better element deserted him, and he trailed a poor second with 40,601 tallies. “Brute” McSwain, advocate of the Nicaraguan policy, counted next with 31,100 votes. He was followed by McAlister, with 30,800, and Tucker with 30,200. “Flora” Macdonald also ran.

Following the tactics of “Big Bill” Thompson, mud-slinging mayor-elect of Chicago, “Droopy” gathered his cohorts about him, denounced the riff-raff who opposed him, pulled the wool over the eyes of the upper classes and swept on to conquer. Never was a victory more overwhelming.

At the first opportunity Monday morning, for an entire week, students fought desperately to cast ballots for their aspiring candidates. For three hectic days the hopefuls fought neck and neck, first one a favorite and then another, but slowly, surely, the five leaders stepped out to lead the field. Thursday there was a sudden change of tide and Tucker, somber youth from the North, polled a tremendous vote to lead the field strongly for the day. His backers shouted gleefully, victory seemed assured. Others must be reckoned with, however. None lost hope though the odds seemed tremendous against them.

Friday, another climactic day, saw McAlister stock rise. Telegrams poured in from neighboring feminine institutions with tremendous slush funds following in their wake. Salem backed him to the limit. The tidethe candidates dreamed dreams of a dapper little May king among events staged, soared, was turned and had a host of admirers. Alas, N. C. C. W. support failed to materialize. Senator Reed had preceded McAllister. His would-be supporters had nothing left for 231 South Tryon St. Day Telephone 6728 M. P. Crawford, C ART FLOWER SHOP Davis “Bugs” Robinson, ’26, Prop. FLOWERS FOR ALL OCCASIONS Charlotte, N. C. Night—County 3321 Rep ve his help. Another red skin bit the dust. Ambitions were shattered. And then came the final and awful day of reckoning, Saturday. Militia were ordered out to be placed at the poles, that there might be no violence. The throng cast Fleming, stepping from behind, suddenly took the lead after holding fourth place for three days. surged, roared, votes. McSwain climbed to a close second. The armed patrol kept their machine guns in readiness. Four minutes remained until the poles closed. And then came one Womack, from afar, even from the dangers of a meeting of the West Virginia Club, and fought his way desperately through the crowd, who cheered their favorite sons lustily. Up to the ballot box he dashed, cast a greenback to the teller and shouted lustily 50,000 votes for Hudgins. The evening gun roared, the race was o’er. Ten thousand voices were lifted in mighty acclaim. Ten thousand throats cheered the man with “IT.” “IT” won. “IT” That dynamic force that makes babies cry for “IT.” Immediately the news was cabled to (Continued on page 12) overwhelming, nor so dramatic in its climatic ending. The crowds gathered at the poles and, The commands of the motion picture many a search of talent for tomorrow’s screen stars, and collegiates are much in demand. This announces complete details of the First National Pictures—College Humor Screen Tests. During the months of April and May there will be more than baseball, track, and spring vacations to occupy the minds and time of college students who have ambitions for fame and fortune. Camera men and technical experts from First National Pictures will visit the leading colleges and universities to make actual screen tests of the most promising male students. WINS CINEMA TEST WITH “IT” Famous Picture Corporation Seeks New Screen Stars Among University Students Within a few weeks ten lucky collegians will be on their way to Burbank, California, where the world’s finest motion picture studio, First National’s new two million dollar plant, is located. Across the low broken mountain range from Hollywood, where the Dark Canon road gracefully curves to the right and points directly to Burbank in the valley, lies this dream city. There are groups of efficient looking buildings, a profusion of flowers and shrubs, actors in a hundred different costumes. Six of the largest stages in the film world house the interior sets, and the exteriors range from New York City street scenes to Arab huts. The African jungles and huge cathedrals and taverns have transformed what was once a farm into a magic city. Here master craftsmen design and create screen personalities now attending school. (Continued on page 12)

The half-pound vacuum tin is forty-five cents; the foil-pouch package, sealed in glassine, is ten cents.

You can learn far more about tobacco from old Prof. Pipe, than you'll get by studying every treatise ever written on it. For Prof. Pipe is the world’s most eminent authority on the subject. He knows tobacco from plant to pipe! Experiments with every known species have convinced the Prof. that the one perfect pipe tobacco is Granger Rough Cut. He points out reasons for this conclusion: (G) the Granger-grade Burley, the choicest tobacco grown; (R) the Re-discovery of Wellman’s mellowing method; and (C) the Cut of the large slow-burning flakes. Prof. Pipe proves Granger, by practical demonstration—shows how it acts under fire. You never saw tobacco burn so slow, never tasted such cool, mild mellowness! The first pipeful is a liberal education! You'll put your Q.E.D. and capital O.K. on G.R.C. and all your pipe problems will be solved forever!

GRANGER ROUGH CUT
Granger Rough Cut is made by the Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company

Made for pipes only!