4 ae. THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 4, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF 1915
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN .......... Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD ........ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
A. N. BROWN .......... Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT ...... Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY ........ Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE ............. Athletic Editor
B. A. WILSON .......... Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE .......... Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS ......... Associate Editor
T. J. HAY .............. Associate Editor
I. C. ADSWORTH ........ Associate Editor
W. R. GRADY ........... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY ...... Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON .......... Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL .......... Assistant Business Manager
Y. J. GARRISON ......... Subscription Manager
R. W. DICKSON ......... Circulation Manager
W. B. McGUIRE ......... Solicitor
F. H. McCALL .......... Solicitor

CLASS OFFICERS
W. H. STUART .......... President
W. B. NOOR ............ Vice-President
E. T. EDELMAN ......... Secretary-Treasurer

EDITORIAL

A LITTLE RETROSPECTION

Over three hundred years ago a faithful and sturdy band bent their heads and acknowledged their thanks for having been protected and cared for in the wild new country to which they had come from comfortable homes. Surrounded then by a dark and sombre forest, fraught with dangers which they alone could know in their real significance, they were thankful for their mere existence and the few fortunate blessings which seemed to them magnificent. To them, the idea of a Supreme Being caring for their best interests every moment of their lives was indeed distinct. They realized their dangers, they were cognizant of the many difficulties surrounding them in their new station of life; and yet withal they were humble and sincere, realizing their own puny weakness and strength.

To this band of faithful men and women who inaugurated the custom of “Thanksgiving,” it was a sacred event to set apart one day of the year for pure thankfulness and appreciation for the very few fortunate events of the last year. To these people, it seemed that they were merely returning in a small way their acknowledgment of the numerous blessings of a merciful God. They realized the futility of attempting to subdue a wild and uncivilized land with their own pitiful efforts. They knew that in their own strength they would soon be engulfed by a ravenous country eager for fresh blood. But with a dauntless spirit, and with a sincere belief in an almighty God, they fought for their very existence and were successful in peopling a new continent with a foreign race.

From the efforts of this small band has grown the most powerful nation on the earth today, speaking from a material standpoint. From a few score people settling in a few miles of territory has developed a country bound together from coast to coast. It is striking to note today the different attitude, however, of the multitude of people who now inhabit this country,—prosperous, wealthy, well-cared for, successful with uncounted advantages and blessings which the first settlers never dreamed of,—the attitude towards their position as compared with the attitude at the first prayerful Thanksgiving.

This is no sermon, but it is appalling to note how very unappreciative the world in general seems to be today. Children unappreciative to their parents, brother to brother, friend to friend. It is more striking when it is considered in the light of the general attitude of the ones who founded this country. The one day of the year set apart to show our appreciation to our Maker has now been almost forgotten in its full significance. It is given over to sleep late in the morning, a quick lunch, a rush to see a football game, a feast at the evening meal, either a dance or a show—such is Thanksgiving for a number of people in America today.

The influence of the use of such a day is far-reaching. It certainly shows a retrograding of interest and appreciation in the actual meaning of the day. One could argue that the reason for this is that this is the century of speed and efficiency—the business man must have recreation and must spend it in an efficient manner. There are too many fallacies in this argument to attempt to discuss it. But it is true in that it represents seemingly the attitude of the nation today. We are too busy to be appreciative. All of our time must be spent either in business or recreation—these seem to be the chief aims of the average man. It would be wasteful to use time to consider where all material wealth and earthly profit comes from. The average man is self-made. He knows that he has done it all himself.

But in the bustle of this life there are times when it is best to stop and consider things in general. To think of our condition in this life. To remember all of our blessings and fortunate gifts. To retrospect and see if our life has been worthwhile. In that we are rather small atoms in this infinite universe. Eliminating the personal element, there are numerous things that we must be thankful for. To consider life seriously one must realize the influence of those who have passed before us. To be thankful for what they have done, to be thankful for what we have, and to determine to use to the best advantage of all the few small talents which have been bestowed upon us.

A TRIBUTE

When eleven scarred gladiators in dirty scarlet jerseys huddle together on Richardson Field this afternoon to give fifteen for Duke, a pang of sadness will pierce the heart of every senior. For four years they have watched these representatives of their class and college give hours upon hours of earnest labor and precious minutes of actual combat with other institutions,—have seen them perform this service unselfishly and willingly. To each senior, there will be an earnest regret that no more will these gridiron heroes be able to represent the Red and Black.

Few classes have had the privilege of claiming such colorful and famed heroes. Fewer still have claimed such modest wearers of the laurel wreath. Although many classes have had more successful seasons their last year, none have had the real spirit of this institution so in evidence—fighting against odds yet fighting with every ounce of grit until the last whistle blew. The class of '28 is indeed proud of the representatives who today play their last football game for their Alma Mater. These men were an integral part of the machine that won the state championship in '26—these men were a vital factor in an actual portrayal of the old fighting spirit in every game this year.

There are others, however, who deserve as much and possibly more praise. These are the men who have never been able to wear the letter representing their institution. Few of them have even had the privilege of playing in an actual contest for their own school. To the men who have labored faithfully for four years, who have served as foils for their more brilliant classmates, to them also is due much praise. Their work has been unheralded, but not unappreciated. Much credit is due them for the type of team that Davidson is able to put out.

After today, the senior will view football contests with the thought that the men playing are fighting for their comrades, for their friends, and not for him. The men that have fought for him are also on the sidelines. These men will witness encounters with a feeling that they are forgotten. They will probably feel that they are no longer needed. Their term of service has passed and they have retired. Youth must be served and the day of glory and honor has passed to men other than themselves.

Today will be the last game that some Seniors will see the machine of their Alma Mater in actual encounter. Their interest, however, will always be for that fighting Davidson eleven. But the seniors today will be outsiders. It will still be Davidson, but another student body, another group of friends, the representatives of a newer day. But to these men who have served in their time, to the men who have represented us so gloriously, we pay all tribute. To them goes all praise, for win or lose they have been our representatives in a way that will always reflect glory upon us. We regret sincerely that we will never see them again in a Davidson uniform. But for all that they have done for us, we are truly appreciative.

Open Forum

Ollapodrida

The Open Forum column is always open to discussion on any subject. All articles must be signed, however, and handed in to the editor before 7:00 p.m. Monday.

RELIGION AND BEER

In several North Carolina newspapers there appeared...Last Sunday, an article which deserves the very highest praise of intelligent Americans was published. Mr. Charles W. Tillett, Sr., of the Charlotte bar, writing under the caption “Al Smith and Fair Play,” with a vigor and enthusiasm evidencing deepest sincerity, presents a number of facts that should prove of great public interest, particularly to Smith’s North Carolina opponents. Al Smith, the article asserts, has been most unjustly attacked by some of the religious journals of the day, and by many preachers and moral leaders. These unjust attacks would lead one to consider him “one of the most despicable characters that has ever risen in the public life of America.” Contrary to this, Mr. Tillett says that “Smith is the great outstanding Democrat of the whole world,” and upholds his assertion with highly convincing proof.

The two great reasons why many southern Democrats oppose Smith for president are because he is a Catholic and because of his attitude upon the prohibition question. In regard to the first objection, Mr. Tillett points out that it is contrary to one of the fundamental principles of American liberty to place religious qualifications on a man seeking public office. So far as Smith’s being a Catholic is concerned, he denounces in no uncertain terms those who are inclined to question the loyalty of Catholics to our government. His words in part are: “He who avers that American Catholics are less loyal to their government than are the Protestants, is either a willful maligner, an ignoramus, or a blind bigot. The story of the loyalty of American Catholics is written in blood in Argonne forest; and, ‘in Flanders fields where poppies grow,’ row on row of white crosses, precious symbols of our Savior’s death, stand as sentinels watching over the bodies of our heroic Catholic dead, pointing toward heaven where the God of justice reigns in mute protest against the foul slander that Catholics are not every whit as loyal to the American government as any citizen that ever lived under the Stars and Stripes.”

As to Smith’s attitude toward prohibition, we are reminded that Woodrow Wilson, considered by many “the prototype of a Christian President,” was not a prohibitionist but actually vetoed the Volstead Act. Mr. Tillett asks if it is in accord with fair play “to damn Smith to political perdition,” and, at the same time, as one editor apparently did, consider that “opposition to the Volstead Act on President Wilson’s part in no way affected his high position as an outstanding Christian President.” “Please observe carefully,” he adds later, “that I am not anywhere in this essay attempting to minimize the strong and perfectly legitimate argument against Smith and against his candidacy that he is an anti-prohibitionist; but I am only defending him against the outrageously unfair argument that because he is opposed to prohibition he is a law-breaker or a nullifier of the constitution.” He further asserts that it is grossly unjust to suppose that because Smith is an anti-prohibitionist it follows that he is also in favor of intemperance.

The spirit of fair play and tolerance so admirably exemplified in Mr. Tillett’s article is most concisely expressed in a single sentence, which is quoted in the course of the discussion, and it is this thought that every southerner should bear in mind before condemning Al Smith without just cause: “I hate what you say, but I will die for your right to say it.” Thus Smith has a perfect right to his own sincere ideas about temperance; nor should we condemn him for his Catholicism; and, perhaps, as Josephus Daniels is quoted as having said, “The Democrats should let religion and beer alone.”

Everyone around here is hoping that Santa Claus will be good to us on Thanksgiving in order that we may have something to really be thankful for after the football contest. Why is it that just about ten boys sign up for the special train to be run until the last day and then enough are obtained to warrant running the train? For four consecutive years, this has been the case. It does look like it would change once in a while at any rate.

They have been worthy members of the class of ’28 and to them all honor and glory is due. Our weak efforts to praise them are entirely inadequate. To express our real feelings it would be necessary to write volumes. But let this be but one leaf in their crown of laurel, but let it represent our real feelings which we will never be able to express completely.

As annual pictures are being returned for inspection and preparations for the yearbook are being made, ambitious upperclassmen begin to recount their honors and number the times that their likeness shall appear in that publication. One notable senior will grace its pages fourteen times, another twelve. Such are the rewards of an active life on the campus. One sometimes wonders if such a life is not a weakness. The old axiom that no man can do a variety of things well has been proven all too often. The man entering college will best succeed who devotes his interests to a few well-chosen organizations, according to his talents, and gives his best to them. Success in any line will bring student leadership to the laborer. That line of thought calls to mind the recent plaint of a student at the University of Kansas who was an “activity hound.” Said he: “Yes, I am swamped. But there seems no way out. The pace is set for me and I must follow it. If I don’t, the rest of the ‘gang’ will call me a ‘stick’ or a ‘grind,’ according to the part of college life that I neglect. I am always in a hurry. I must not disappoint my parents or my organizations. They, too, seem to believe that I must keep up the pace or else be an utter failure. I want a certain per cent of everything, but I am not satisfied with the taste of the mixture. I haven’t time. The Utopia of my soul, I believe, is a place where I can do as I please, when I please, and take all the time that I please in doing that thing without being rushed by this demon popularly known as ‘college education.’” The “activity hound” is a sort of glamorous figure to the outsider or freshman but often he is labeled the campus clown by those who stand off and smile.

Foremost among college activities which become problematic to college authorities is the athletic question. Now that the football season has run its course, the usual voices of dissent at concentrated, commercialized, college athletics are being raised in protest. Even the students have taken up the cry at the University of Chicago where the daily newspaper recently censored the rushing of high school athletes. It seems that the university has a regular organization which makes it its business to garner the cream of athletes from the best prep and high schools of the country. The students, and the students only, can put an end to such practice. As long as the university football team is its best advertising medium, so long will commercialized athletics flourish. Should the student veto what now seems to be his most cherished possession in college, the whole system will crumble. But should the present football system perish, with its sister parasites, one may be sure that scholarship will not be increased in prominence.

Mr. Eastman, promulgator of the Kodak and originator of the statement that “if it isn’t an Eastman, it isn’t a Kodak,” has a new problem on his mind—the introduction of a new, more easily understood calendar. The proposed yearly measure is composed of thirteen months (a new one, Sol, being introduced between June and July), each month having twenty-eight days. That makes 364 days. The extra day every year would become New Year and the extra day every four years would become Sol 0. The system is very simple; one monthly calendar will serve for years, thus destroying a good part of the yearly Christmas trade. Many organizations have sanctioned the new method, including the League of Nations. No calendar has ever served the world for as much as five centuries. We are now nearing the finish of our allotted time with the present one. Mr. Eastman may have success but every state must approve the plan for its adoption in this country. The celebration of religious ceremonies offers the chief obstacle.

As mentioned in this column last week, the new Holland vehicle tunnel under the Hudson River has been opened to the public at a cost of $48,000,000. Toll for passage is fifty cents and the tunnel has a capacity of 46,000 cars a day. So far it has been worked to only half capacity. Even at this rate, however, it will prove to be very profitable to the investors. The greatest item of expense is the ventilation system by which the air in the tunnel is changed completely 42 times every hour by 54 gigantic fans. The time which it saves for its users will be worth the cost many times over.

Pessimistic investigators of national resources were given a distinct setback last week when a report was made on the recently discovered coal deposits in Gillette, Wyo. Within an area of a few square miles are veins containing 14 billion tons and the total output of the United States since its discovery has been only 18 billion tons. Coal always has been and will continue to be the greatest source of power to our industries. If all our available water power were converted, it could supply only 20 percent of our needs and oil only a fraction of that. Our coal is our wealth. —W. L. L.