THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1927

Thirty-seven Men Selected from More Than One Hundred Glee Club Candidates

Thirty-seven men have been chosen to comprise the Davidson College Glee Club on its tour of North Carolina and Virginia
this fall, according to an announcement made Tuesday afternoon by Edwin L. Douglass, business manager of the club. The final
selection of singers followed a month of keen competition among the fifty-odd students who remained after the first elimination trials.
More than a hundred students were on hand for the original try-outs, which were held during the first week of
college in September, this being the largest number of candidates ever trying for places on the club.

The students who will comprise the club are:

First Tenors: C. C. Clarke, Elizabethtown; J. S. Gray, Richmond, Va.; Frank Pilcher, Charleston, W. Va.; A. J. Ranson, Badin;
J. E. Bradley, China; Hunter, Davidson; E. B. Hammack, Macon, Ga.; Hugh McMillan, Atlanta, Ga.; S. R. Coker, Hartsville, S.
C.

Second Tenors: C. L. Creech, Winston-Salem; E. L. Douglass, Augusta, Ga.; D. H. Howard, Lynchburg, Va.; R. E. Wilson, Charlotte,
N. C.; O. T. Gibson, Pennington, W. Va.; J. A. Cannon, Concord; W. E. Phifer, Port Jervis, N. Y.; J.
A. Wilson, Montreat; R. S. Abernethy, Winter Haven, Fla.

Baritones: W. B. Yancey and C. B. Yancey, Umatilla, Fla.; W. C. Archie, Salisbury; R. S. Lowrance, Atlanta, Ga.; R.
W. McDermid, Charlotte; H. R. Mobley, Reidsville; C. J. Albright, Richmond, Va.; B. H. O. Gear, Charleston, S. C.

Second Bass: J. P. Thompson, Davidson; R. O. Flynn, Atlanta, Ga.; J. R. McCravey, Forest, Miss.; C. H. DuBose, Pocomoke
City, Md.; Knox Poole, Troy; M. M. King, Bristol, Tenn.; R. M. Christian, Birmingham, Ala.; A. R. Byrd, Washington, D.
C.; H. B. Mavel, Falkland; and G. H. Wainwright, Arcadia, Fla.

Edwin L. Douglass, manager of the Davidson College Glee Club, is now working on plans for the two tours that
the gleemen will take this year. The first will be before Christmas and will cover North Carolina and Virginia. This
trip will last for a week. On the second trip, the singers will travel in the opposite direction, going to
South Carolina and Georgia, and staying for one week. The places that the Glee Club will visit on these tours
have not been definitely decided but will be published in a later edition of the paper. Besides the two above
trips, they are to take several short weekend excursions to nearby colleges and cities. Last year the Glee Club made
a fine impression wherever it went and from the material that they have this year an equally good one is
expected. Of the quartet of last year’s songmen, only one is left to start off the new men this year,
John Foster.

FRY AND ANDREW HONORED BY STATE VOLUNTEER BAND

G. A. Fry and J. M. Andrew represented the Davidson Volunteer Band at the fall retreat of the state organization,
which was held at Duke University, in Durham, from October 14th to 16th. This retreat was composed of two delegates
from each of the various groups throughout the state, together with the state executive committee, and a total of seven
colleges and universities were represented. Fry is president of the state union, while Andrew has just been elected editor of
“The Volunteer,” the official bulletin of the state organization. The retreat held its first session on Friday evening and was
concluded on Sunday morning. Among the speakers who addressed the delegation were Dr. Soper and Professor Cannon, of the Duke
School of Religion; J. D. Stott,

Riflemen Appoint Officers

The members of last year’s rifle team met on Wednesday afternoon to elect officers for this season. J. M. Gudger
was elected team captain and W. C. Taylor, team manager. To date, challenges have been received from the North Dakota
State College, Mississippi A. and M. College, and the Culver Military Institute. These matches will be held by competitive scores.
The shoulder-to-shoulder encounters will be arranged later on in the season. No practices have yet been held, for improvements are
being made on the rifle range and it has not been in a condition for active practice. There are many
schemes underway for the improvement of the rifle team, but at the present writing, none have been made public.

DAVIDSON FRESH CONQUER

(Continued from page 2)

Mason .......... Center
Block .......... Left Guard
Breedin ........ Left Tackle
Marrow ........ Left End
King, L. (c) ... Right Guard
Gibson ......... Right Tackle
Peoples ........ Right End
Hall ........... Quarterback
Goodykoontz (c) Right Halfback
McIntyre ...... Left Halfback
Fraley ......... Fullback

Score by quarters:
Davidson Fresh, 0 0 0 12—12
Wofford Fresh, 0 0 0 0—0

Scoring touchdowns: Fraley, Estridge, sub for McCall.

Officials: Brice (Auburn), referee; Crayton (Davidson), headlinesman; Kirkpatrick (N. C. State), umpire and timekeeper.

First downs: Wofford 1, Davidson 10; penalties: Wofford 20 yards, Davidson 25 yards.

Metal furniture manufactured in the United States is finding a ready market in tropical countries, where it furnishes better resistance
to white ants and other insects than the wooden type.a general councilor of the Student Volunteer Movement; and Mr. Chin,
a native Chinese preacher. Mr. Chin’s talk was especially interesting, for he described how he had been won from Confucianism
to Christianity through the efforts of one of his friends. The particular emphasis of the talks of both Mr. Stott
and Mr. Chin was on the practical application of religion. It was the opinion of both speakers that Christianity is
not the gospel according to Matthew, to Luke, or to John, but “the gospel according to you.” The most important
matter along the lines of business to come before the retreat was the discussion of the tenth quadrennial convention to
be held in Detroit during the Christmas holidays. The state unions of Virginia and North Carolina are co-operating in planning
to send their delegations to Detroit by special train. North Carolina will be officially represented by Fry, who was selected
as state representative. The leading social feature of the retreat was a social tendered to the visiting delegates by the
Duke group, which took place on Saturday night.

Lecture Committee Gets Third Speaker

So far the only lecture scheduled for the rest of the year will be a lecture by Ralph Dennis, Dean
of Speech at Northwestern University, located at Evanston, Ill. Dean Dennis is a noted authority on Russia, having spent much
of his time there studying the conditions of the nation. His last trip there was in the summer of 1927.
No definite time has been set for the lecture, but it will probably come sometime during the month of March.
In all probability, the date will not be decided until after the Christmas holidays. In bringing Dr. Dennis to the
college, the lecture committee is continuing its policy of bringing only the most noted specialists to speak to the students,
believing that it is better to have a few lectures by men who are complete masters of their subject rather
than numerous lectures by men who are not so well acquainted with their subject matter. The main reason why so
few lectures have been scheduled is a lack of funds. Only about three hundred dollars are appropriated for lectures and
therefore they must be of quality rather than quantity. According to Dr. Shewmake, chairman of the lecture committee, it is
hoped that some more money will be appropriated for the furtherance of lectures here. Although Dr. Martin has not yet
committed himself, he has expressed himself as being favorable to the idea. So far, the only lectures enjoyed have been
by Dr. Edwin Mims, of Vanderbilt University, who spoke here on Monday night, September 19th, on “Specialization and Culture,” in
which he pictured the ideal modern college. The other lecture was delivered by Mr. M. H. H. Joachim, noted authority
on India, on Monday, October 24th.

The one cigarette in a million

The instant a Camel is lighted, you sense that here is the distinctly better cigarette. And how this superior quality
grows with the smoking! Choice tobaccos tell their fragrant story. Patient, careful blending rewards the smoker with added pleasure. Camel
is the one cigarette in a million for mildness and mellowness. Its decided goodness wins world popularity for Camel. Modern
smokers demand superiority. They find it fulfilled in Camels, and place them overwhelmingly first. You should know the tastes and
fragrances that choice tobaccos really give. Camels will reveal an entirely new pleasure. And the more of them you light,
the more enjoyable. “Have a Camel!” R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C. © 1927

Harvard Professor to Visit Davidson

There’s a reason why more college men come to the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, one of the highest-ranking
in the country, which has recently been very richly endowed. The president of the First National Bank of Harvard, Mr.
Baker, has given five million dollars, and there have been several other smaller endowments. Several Davidson graduates have gone from
Davidson to take this course. Two of last year’s class left here to take the course. Professor Mallott, the assistant
dean of the graduate school of Business Administration at Harvard University, will visit Davidson on Monday, October 24th. Professor Mallott
is coming to Davidson for the purpose of going over certain matters as regards Davidson's courses along business lines in
their relations with those of Harvard. For the past few years, there has been an increasing demand for courses along
more businesslike lines with a view toward specialization work and post-graduate courses. It is for this general purpose that Professor
Mallott is visiting Davidson among many other colleges of the South.

LONGER PERIOD FOR (Continued from page one)

as a result of increasing demands made by the students. This has been the experience of many other like institutions.
Dr. Shewmake pointed out that since the attendance at the lectures had been steadily growing, which indicated an increasing interest
among the students in the lectures, high hopes were held for an increased appropriation.

The New Orthophonic Victrola

The Finest Musical Instrument in the World Prices $95 to $1,000 All Models in Stock---Easy Terms NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N.C. CREDENZA, $300.00
