4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN ---------------- Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES, JR. -------- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
A. N. BROWN -------------------- Managing Editor
W. H. GRIFFITH ----------------- Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARTY ---------------- Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE ---------------------- Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE ------------------- Associate Editor
F. C. WITE ---------------------- Associate Editor
T. T. JONES --------------------- Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH -------------- Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY -------------------- Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS ---------------- Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD ---------------- Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE ------------------- Assistant Business Manager
Subscription Manager
Circulation Manager

Reporters’ Club
W. H. BAILEY
J. P. McBRYDE
TYREE DILLARD
B. F. McQUEEN
J. L. ELY
W. K. PRITCHETT
J. R. GRAHAM
B. WILSON
JOHN GWIN
W. R. WEAVER
R. C. GRADY
L. C. WADSWORTH
R. H. KANE
J. P. McKNIGHT

EDITORIAL

THE INSPECTION

Today marks another epoch in the history of the R. O. T. C. unit here at Davidson. For an inspection will be made today to determine whether or not Davidson College merits another Distinguished Rating such as was given last year. Two officers detailed from the War Department will be here all day to inspect the battalion in every small detail and extra time has been granted by the authorities to aid the officers in making their inspection.

Davidson was given a Distinguished Rating last year for the first time in the history of the unit here. This came after many years of intensive work on the part of the commanding officers and was a just reward for their labors. Davidson occupies a distinct position among the other colleges of Distinguished Rating since it is the only denominational college in the Fourth Corps Area to merit such an honor. It is also interesting to note that the trustees, at their recent meeting, heartily endorsed the unit here and promised their support in maintaining the high standard set in military circles here last year.

In granting the Distinguished Rating to a school which is not essentially military, the officers last year placed Davidson on a plane which has never before been occupied by this institution. And in being awarded the honor, Davidson was placed on the same plane with schools such as V. M. I., The Citadel, Georgia Tech, Georgia, and Auburn — schools which emphasize the military department more than it is emphasized here.

Loud-mouthed agitators and garrulous pacifists have for years insisted that the R. O. T. C. unit is detrimental to a youth, in that it trains him for war when he should be working for peace. This has been answered so decidedly that at present there is very little agitation against the military units. The units in the various institutions are headed by men who have had actual experience in battle, who have seen enough of its atrocities and hardships, who have a burning desire for everlasting peace,—these men teach the students how to be prepared for national defense in case war should ever arise again. They teach war stripped of all its glory and glamour, expose it in all its grossness and sordidness. Students are taught that military training has as its sole end national defense, the protection of our homes and institutions.

During the past year, there have been 19 colleges and universities and 35 high schools which have applied for military units and have of necessity been refused due to the lack of government funds. In view of this fact, it is doubtful whether the move to abolish R. O. T. C. units will have the slightest degree of success.

The development of the student is another factor of military training that cannot be discounted. Strict obedience and loyalty are instilled into the minds of the students and whether or not they ever have a chance to use these qualities in military service, the benefits will be felt throughout their lives. In a recent questionnaire, it was found out that a majority of the students here opposed compulsory exercise. In this way also, the military unit offers a solution to a problem which confronts practically every institution. The faculty and officials of the college support the R. O. T. C. unit where it is doubtful whether they would support a Physical Education department.

Every student should be trained in such a way that he would be of the utmost value to his country and his people in time of peace as well as in time of national defense. Our forefathers have fought that the purity of our independence might be handed down to us. It is the duty of American youth today to so prepare himself that if ever a great crisis comes in our generation, each man will be so equipped that the sanctity and sacredness of the independence of his land and nation will be preserved.

TEN YEARS

Ten years ago today the Congress of the United States declared war against the Imperial German and Austrian governments. Ten years ago today marked the entrance of millions of America’s young manhood into a conflict from which numerous thousands never returned. The one hundred and ten million inhabitants of this country began to contribute with their lives and with their gold in an effort to arrest the blue-green horde which threatened to envelop the world. The richest country in the New World poured a large percentage of its resources, either directly or indirectly, into the maelstrom in which Europe had been whirling for the past three years. Agonies, mental and physical, such as men of the New World had never known before were endured for the sake of the moral principles which lay at stake.

Today the scene is different from that nine or ten years ago. The effects of the war are being eradicated, and here in our own country, the war is gradually growing less and less real — resembling more a hideous nightmare of bloodshed and ruin. But the memories of those brave heroes who sacrificed their all, of those at home who sent their own flesh and blood out to be slaughtered—memories such as these will never leave us. And as yet, real peace has not been secured. The work of the League of Nations is gradually growing more extensive, but there is still much more to be hoped for. In a theater far removed from the World War, internal strife in a large country has become an international problem and every day threatens to bring on some conflict among outside nations. Countries and principalities are still snarling at one another. The few years of peace in the world have not been as sweet as it was once thought they would be.

The noble ideal and purpose to which Woodrow Wilson devoted and finally sacrificed his life is as yet still a dream. Pershing, the noble leader of the American forces, has retired and younger material has taken his place. Byng, Joffre, Petain, Foch, Allenby, and other leaders in the various countries have passed almost into obscurity. And yet the gleaming goal for which they fought has not yet been reached. Ten years have seen many disappointments for them and it seems at present that the next few days will bring further sorrow.

The fact remains, however, that the principles for which these men fought have been instilled in the hearts of many of America’s younger generation. The plea of these leaders for universal peace seems to have been heard by some. Only recently, a questionnaire was sent to students of five of the leading Eastern universities. This questionnaire asked for their opinions on the problem of America taking an active affair in the Chinese situation and landing armed forces in an attempt to establish order. A large majority of the students asked expressed the opinion that America adopt the “hands off” policy save when it was necessary to use force for the protection of American citizens. It is believed by many that the World War was not fought in vain and that the present crisis will establish more firmly the idea of international peace; that this generation will live to see the day when international strife will be a thing practically unknown and that all disagreements can be amicably settled.

CRITICISM

For the past year there has been a deplorable paucity of Open Forum articles. There must be a number of problems existing in the student body; there must be much criticism of the paper or any otherInstitutions among the students,—and constructive criticisms about these numerous evils is solicited. Two or three years ago, there were numerous articles handed in for the Open Forum column and students seemed actively interested in the welfare of the college.

Inquiring Reporter Collegiate Notes

A number of men on the campus were asked the following question: Ever since the World War there has been much agitation against R.O.T.C. units in preparatory schools and colleges, condemning them as organizations which breed militarism. Do you think that they are good or bad factors in the development of young manhood?

The following answers were given by the various men:

H. M. Austin, IL.—I think military training in college is especially beneficial to men who have not had it in high schools or in preparatory schools. I do think, however, that it would be more successful were it more intensive for a short space of time rather than dragging it out over two years.

W. K. Gwin—Although I have never had the military training offered here at Davidson, it seems to me to be very good and adds a great deal to the development of the students both physically and morally.

Bob Platt—It’s a good thing, for men taking R.O.T.C. will never be in favor of war.

George Zimmerman—On one hand, training in elements of modern warfare is like teaching the rules of a game, creating in one the desire to play; while on the other hand, when it shows the damage that war causes, it sets the young man against it and he is likely to avoid it if a crisis arises.

H. B. Arbuckle—I think it is a great organization for young men’s training. Like Teddy Roosevelt, I believe that wars do a country good in creating national spirit and patriotism. R.O.T.C. makes for discipline and unites students as no other organization does.

W. B. Bradford—R.O.T.C. is very beneficial because of the fact that it is one of the most practical courses offered here, and of its development both mentally and physically.

W. K. Pritchett—R.O.T.C. is a good thing in schools because it creates a hatred for wars and causes men to avoid it in later life.

M. C. O'Neal—R.O.T.C. is all right, because through it one learns of the horrors of war, and this realization creates a strong desire for permanent peace.

A. N. Brown—I think that it is a very good factor in the curriculum of the college. It instills in a man the idea of cooperation and discipline, so vital in his later life.

L. D. Kirkland—There are many good points on both sides, for it develops one physically and mentally, but I think it has the effect of inviting war.

Wat Tucker—General Sherman was right, though I do like to see the boys drill.

W. T. Covington—In my opinion, it is a decided advantage for any man to have the mental and physical drill and discipline afforded by military training.

Bill Flowe—Is it good? Profanely, no!

“Major Hoople” Clark—It ain’t no value whatsoever, and I hope everybody sees in the paper just how I feel about it.

Steve Wall—I disagree violently with Hoople. I think it’s a darned good thing.

M. C. McQueen—It’s a mighty good thing. It makes a man think and it gives him a whole lot of practical training.

The above seems to be an average cross-section of the student body, and shows that the majority of the students believe in military training, both in preparatory schools and colleges.

Well—physically, yes; if some of the would-be student body presidents or would-be class officers could secure such competent campaign managers as did some of the May King contestants, there would be no doubt of their success.

At Lafayette College, in Easton, Pa., the students and faculty members are contributing books and money to a Fiction Shelf in the Library, in order that all of the current fiction may be accessible to the students there. The fund was started when the Student Council contributed fifty dollars to be used in the enterprise.

In the Business School at Harvard, a series of lectures on the Motion Picture Industry are being given. Recently Will Hays, czar of Filmdom, discussed problems and policies of the cinema industry. It is understood that a similar series of lectures on the world of filmdom is being planned.

Business students at Texas University, before they can get a degree from the Business School, must complete a certain amount of work in some business office.

Northwestern University has a new mascot. A genuine Alaskan husky has been secured and occupies a prominent place on the campus.

The new $50,000 pipe organ in the auditorium at the University of Florida is the second largest in the United States.

In the recent cane rush at Lafayette College, the sophomores won by having eighteen hands on the cane at the final whistle while the freshmen had only ten. Had the freshmen won, they would have been granted the privilege of having a class banquet.

The cadets at Mississippi will discard their old O.D. uniforms next fall. The entire unit will be outfitted in snappy grey uniforms similar to those of the Military Academy.

A new college song for Duke University has recently been written by the director of the band. The song is a spirited march and words will be written for it some time before the next football season.

A new use for discarded radio poles has been found at Auburn when the old pole was transferred to the Athletic field to be used as a flagpole.

At Lafayette College, there are two main parties in the general elections. Men are nominated from each party to be elected and to serve their party, rather than competing against men from the other party, thus having the offices equally divided between the two groups.

The co-eds at Duke recently debated the co-eds from William and Mary. One team going to Williamsburg, the other team staying at Durham to debate William and Mary there. This is the first time in the history of Duke University that the co-eds have had a forensic contest.

Baseball contests between the aggregation from Auburn and their opponents were broadcasted play by play from the college radio station at Auburn, WAPI.

“The Tiger,” weekly publication of Clemson College, recently sponsored a dance at the college. Shades of all the muses, suppose The Davidsonian should try such a thing!

A new custom was started in collegiate journalism circles last week when the retiring editor and business manager of The Davidsonian went over to Queens College to advise the incoming editor and business manager of the Queens Blues as to their various duties.

At Auburn, an unusual event is held in the spring which corresponds to the Homecoming day in the fall during football season. This is called A Day and is sponsored by the Letter Men’s Club.

It is peculiar to note that Hampden-Sydney had to have a vote in the student body as to the most popular man, when the best athlete had just been chosen the day before. He forgot to say that the most popular man was also the best athlete.

The band at Duke University has recently purchased entirely new uniforms which will be worn for the first time at a big celebration this week. Moral: Have an R.O.T.C. unit band and let Uncle Sam provide the uniforms.

A story in The Guilfordian the past week says that a student in class at 6:45 Saturday morning discovered a fire. If students there are similar to a number here, it must have been right under him and the heat woke him up.

The glee club at the University of North Carolina has completed all of its plans to sail for Europe this summer. A number of concerts will be given in England and on the Continent while the club is there.