THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 13, 1927

The Davidsonian
Member North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.
Business Manager VERNON S. BROYLES

EDITORIAL STAFF
LINGLE Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN Assistant Managing Editor
B. G. WURD Athletic Editor
RUFORD WEBB Associate Editor
H. SHELBY Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN Exchange Editor
Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN Alumni Editor
W. W. G. RON Assignment Editor
PECK ONT Feature Editor
T. T. JONES

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE Assistant Business Manager
Inquiring Reporter
A. McALPINE Subscription Manager
W. ALBRIGHT Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
N. BROWN
H. McWAINE
E. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH
A. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD
B. WILSON
J. R. WEAVER
B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

If you received a loud tie for Christmas, try putting a muffler on.

We are told that Sarret, the great writer, lecturer, and teacher, known as “The Poet of the Wilderness,” who comes to Davidson Monday night for a lecture, is a lover of the backwoods. His acquaintances tell us that each year he slips away from Chicago to spend a few months in the forests and mountains of the northwest. He loves the Wilderness—he’s coming to Davidson.

THE NEW YEAR’S CHALLENGE

The beginning of the New Year has generally been accepted as a time of inventory—not alone by business firms and finance houses, but likewise by individuals. It is a time for taking stock, for ascertaining our shortcomings and making plans to meet them. Too many people start the New Year harassed by thoughts of failure during the preceding twelve months. This is an unprofitable practice. It is well that one should be frank in his survey of himself, but to become discouraged by the failures of the past does not ensure success in the future. It rather points to continued defeat. It is the man, who finding where he has failed in the old year, buckles down to the new with the determination to profit by his shortcomings, who attains the greatest measure of success. No man ever became worthwhile by lamenting failure. Someone has said that it is a mistake to make New Year resolutions—they are too easily and too quickly broken. But, an ideal, regardless of how far short of it one may fall, is always worthwhile. No man ever hit the heaven by aiming at the ground or by not aiming at all. Set up for yourself definite goals, the achievement of which you aspire, and though the closing of the year may find you far short of your original destination, it will find you at least progressing.

To everyone the New Year holds out a challenge, but this challenge is particularly directed at college students, the men and women who are preparing themselves for the great job of making the world fit during the next generation. The New Year offers an extraordinary opportunity for them to add to the stores of knowledge, wisdom, and experience on which they must draw so frequently in the years to come. With this fact in mind, it is well that every college student pause for a few minutes while the New Year is still fresh, and take stock of himself or herself. There are definite questions to be answered. No inventory could be more necessary or more productive of benefits than such a one as this.

Why are you in college? Are you here because your parents had a few dollars that they felt they could afford to spend on you and were anxious to have you known as a “college student?” If so, you are “riding the crips” and dodging work. You would be better at home where you could better spend your parents’ money more profitably and more easily. Are you in college simply because you wanted a college degree and felt that it would stand you in good stead in the lively competition with your fellows later on? If so, you are wasting your time. A college degree of itself is a poor vehicle in which to ride on the rough road that leads upward to success. Are you in college wasting time, simply because you had the means, and felt that you were too young to step out in the world on your own? Such wasteful marking time will make the battle of life seem harder when once you are forced to go into the front line trenches. You are not only wasting your own time, if such is your purpose, but, what is worse, you are keeping some other fellow who seriously desires a college education from enjoying the golden opportunities you are overlooking. The colleges are too full of fellows “wasting four years.”

Or, are you in college to gain an education, to learn how to discipline yourself and others, to develop your intellect along profitable lines, to mold for yourself a sound character and, in short, to fit yourself so as to aid, not only yourself, but your fellow man as well? If this be your purpose, you are properly located. But, your duties and responsibilities are great. Every day offers something of value that must be grasped then or lost forever. Your very purpose demands faithfulness, punctuality, aggressiveness, and hard work. You must be honest with yourself. Take an inventory. Learn where your stores are short and where they need replenishing. Build for success—not alone during the New Year, but for all times.

AESTHETIC PROGRESS

An announcement by officials of the Dramatic Club that the performance by the club in Charlotte this week is not to be the last performance of the club on “foreign soil,” as it were, but that the club this year is planning trips to a number of North Carolina cities has been enthusiastically received by students here, who have watched with interest the efforts of the club and its leaders to “come back” after a period of seeming dramatic decadence. Along with this announcement comes a rumor, which lacking official sanction is nevertheless believed to be true, that a department of music is to be established on the campus next year. Students, hearing this, recall the insistent demand by a former editor of The Davidsonian that a department of musical and dramatic instruction be established here to supply a need for aesthetic development among our students. With the dramatic club widening its range of activity, and the prospect of a musical instructor being added to our faculty, the aesthetes among us are noticeably encouraged.

The Little Theatre Movement, starting back in 1913, has led to a general revival of interest in the dramatic arts throughout the nation, but nowhere had it received such a valuable stimulus as among the colleges. Harvard, first, then Yale, then the University of North Dakota, and more recently the University of North Carolina have all enlisted in the movement which seeks to build up a renewed interest in dramatic activities. There is no reason why Davidson, although considerably smaller than these other colleges and universities, should not likewise take a part in this fine movement. Added appropriations, better facilities, and a full-time director would all help. Prof. G. P. Baker, who first at his famous 47 Workshop at Harvard and now at Yale, has been teaching the fundamentals of playwriting and producing, gets a lot of credit for the beginning of this movement. A. G. Arvold at a North Dakota agricultural college, and F. H. Koch, now director of the North Carolina playmakers, have also been praised for their work in reviving interest among the college men and women in dramatic endeavor. These men deserve all the praise they have received and more. But, their work, though perhaps more conspicuous, is no more praiseworthy than that of our own Professor E. J. Erwin, who in line with his duties in the English department, has continually labored to train his students in the art of playwriting and play producing. Without funds with which to carry on his work, and with little or no encouragement, he has year after year exercised an extraordinary ingenuity in staging plays written by Davidson students. The inadequate equipment with which he has had to work makes his successes all the more laudatory. His devotion to this work has inspired the students with whom he has labored, and has prevented what might have been a complete dramatic decadence on our campus.

Amending Our Constitution

FAVORING THE AMENDMENT

The action of the student council last Thursday morning in recommending the adoption of two amendments to our constitution furnished a surprise to comparatively few students. Following the action of the student body in reversing the decision of the Council in a recent appeal, it was generally agreed among the majority of the students that some revision of our constitution was badly needed. A majority of the students, realizing the need for constitutional reform, anticipated just such changes as the proposed amendments will bring. There can be little objection to the first of the two amendments, which simplyrevises and clarifies the article of the Constitution relating to the use and possession of alcoholic liquors. The general misunderstanding among students as to the intent of this section of our Constitution was clearly demonstrated in a recent appeal to the student body, and there can be no justifiable opposition to an amendment which simply clarifies the section and permits no mistakes in the future. If it is the desire of the students that our college should continue to prohibit the use and possession of intoxicating liquors, and there is no reason to suppose that the majority of students have changed their attitude on this score, then the first of the two amendments will be adopted without noticeable opposition. We must remember that our college has long been known to frown upon the use of intoxicants by members of the student body, and that any change of position in this matter will be damaging to the enviable reputation of the alma mater.

With regard to the second of the two amendments—the one which proposes to place the matter of appeals from decisions of the Council in the hands of the Senior Class—it is frankly admitted that there will be some opposition. This opposition will come largely from the ranks of students, who, misunderstanding the purpose of the amendment, are ready to declare that it will destroy the democratic character of our student government. They fear the amendment will make “underdogs” or “figure-heads” of the underclassmen while veiling the seniors with a toga of despotism. It is well to remind the students that the frequent appeals, in which the opinion of the student council is always reversed, threaten the very foundation of our student government. The student council exists solely through the choice of the student body, every member of the council being chosen in an election at which every other student is offered an opportunity to exercise preference. It is inconceivable that a body, chosen as the Council is, should, upon assuming the duties of office, be so generally accused of intolerance, injustice, and lack of wisdom. Perhaps no such bold accusation has ever been actually made against the council, and yet, a little thought will convince even the most skeptical that the lack of confidence as expressed by the students in their continued decisions against the council, can mean nothing else. Hampered and harassed by an ever-present fear that its decisions will be disregarded by the student body, the council finds itself incompetent to handle such matters as come before it for action. Until the council is made to feel that its judgment, except perhaps in infrequent and extraordinary cases, will be final, students cannot expect that the body will function fairly and wisely.

The granting of appeals to the student body, in spite of the fact that this practice smacks of democracy, presents a dangerous element to our student government. It is generally admitted that justice cannot be secured in a large body, where prejudices and emotionalism obscure truth and fairness. It is also shown that in every instance in the past four years, in which an appeal has been made to the student body—and they are becoming more frequent every year—the decision of the council has been reversed. If figures were available, it could probably be shown that at no time has the decision of the council been upheld by the student body sitting as a court of appeal. This indicates one of two things—and that very clearly. Either the council has proved itself unworthy and incompetent, year in and year out, or the student body has permitted sympathy and prejudice to blind its eyes to the truth. If the council has shown itself incapable, it is time some action were being made to oust the intolerants who compose its membership. If the student body, on the other hand, is at fault, is it not fair to presume that they too must be checked?

Opponents to the proposed amendment will argue that its adoption will result in the destruction of student control, in that it will make the three lower classes incompetent to judge in a case where an appeal is made from a decision of the council. To substantiate their arguments, the opponents will attempt to draw an analogy between our student government and the government of our nation. They will contend that ultimate control must continue to rest with the electorate if democracy is to be preserved. Basically, perhaps their arguments are sound. But, it is absurd to suppose that any court (even in our national government) will permit a referendum of its judgments by the great mass of the people. In so far as the Supreme Court and its subordinate courts are concerned, the people can exercise no control, other than through the election of the men who appoint the judges. If we are to shape our student government after the national model, let us be true to the example. In choosing the members of the council, the students already exercise a maximum degree of control through their rights to vote, and to argue that they must be made a “supreme court” in order to preserve democracy is fallacious.

To go quickly to the other arguments that are being advanced against the amendment, we hear that to place the matter of appeals in the hands of the senior class will amount to class distinction. “Why,” they say, “is the Senior Class any better fitted than the others, or why should they have more control?” The Senior Class is, perhaps, no better class as a whole than the others, but its members have had four years' experience with the Davidson student government. They know its problems, its purposes, and its needs. They are admittedly better versed in the traditions and intentions of the student government than the members of any other class. If student control in the matter of appeals is to be taken from a large and unwieldy group and placed in the hands of a smaller and more competent body (which seems necessary), then is it not reasonable to suppose that the senior class is the logical body to handle this matter. It might be stated here that the seniors have never begged this privilege—that it was proposed by a unanimous vote of the council, in which sophomores and juniors had a voice. If the present senior class was to remain perpetually the court of appeal, there might be room for argument on the class distinction idea. But, in view of the fact that every year one of the lower classes will attain to this position, no idea of permanent privilege is conceivable.

It has been variously rumored that if our campus government is to remain in the hands of students, some step must be taken at once to assure greater consistency in the matter of punishment for violations of the student constitution. The use of a whole day by the student body in hearing an appeal, with “bull” and time flying fast, is becoming too frequent to be permitted by our faculty. It is said that unless some revision in the matter of appeals is effected the faculty will insist on certain changes. Their interference would precipitate a weakening of the student government, and we must act wisely in an effort to avoid it. Our student government is distinct in its operation, its record is enviable, and we must preserve it. Let us not be blinded by arguments that are so attractive and yet so illogical!

“IT SHALL NOT PASS”

Behind the proposed amendment to the constitution, to transfer the final power in appealing cases from the students to the senior class, lies more than one might ordinarily expect. The events leading up to its being placed before the student body are of such character, when fully considered, to warrant its defeat at the hands of the student body, regardless of what the student body might think of the bill itself.

The figure behind the bill is none other than the faculty, and the basis of their support of it is none other than a denial to the student body of its rights implied in the very words “student government.” There is no denial that the faculty or the administration was very much opposed to the recent action of the student body in acquitting two men convicted before the council of drinking. In fact, some members of the council have gone so far as to state that had the four men been acquitted there was little doubt but that the faculty would have intervened in order to send them all home. Seeing that such was hardly advisable, the faculty has announced that the student body shall not be excused from any further classes in order to try an appealed case, regardless of how important that case may be. Yet the faculty has agreed to excuse the senior class from classes should this bill be adopted. Such action indicates their opinion of and regard for what is commonly known as “student government.” When one considers that in the past four years only two days have been lost from studies on account of student body meetings, one of which was not entirely lost, and when one considers that in neither case were the freshmen, representing over 33 percent of the student body, affected, one easily sees that there is more in the matter than the loss of work to the students. As the saying goes, “there is a nigger in the woodpile.”

Student government at Davidson is gradually becoming a misnomer. To yield to this change in the constitution is merely to yield to the march of events that for the past four years have gradually been taking every vestige of power and freedom from the student body.

(Continued on page 6)