4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 29, 1927

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '19
"The Livest Wire on the Hill"
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.99 the Collegiate Year
All articles for publication must be in by 12 noon on Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not
be published.

Editor-in-Chief
BOYCE MARTIN
Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD

EDITORIAL STAFF
A. N. BROWN Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE Associate Editor
B. COWHERD Associate Editor
T. A. JONES Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH Alumni Editor
R. C. DYSART Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. PATTERSON Assistant Business Manager
S. J. AGISON Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL Assistant Business Manager
P. B. ALEXANDER Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE Solicitor
H. H. McCALL Solicitor

Reporters’ Club
W. H. BAILEY President
L. ELY Vice-President
R. GRAHAM Secretary-Treasurer
P. ANDERSON
R. W. McDERMIT
W. H. BEST
W. B. McQUEEN
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D. MILLER
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. PRATT
R. F. JARRELL
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LONG
W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

JUNIOR SPEAKING
The Junior Class has taken a step during the past week which they will probably regret before the year is
over. At a called meeting, it was decided to have Junior Speaking. It was also decided to have speaking sometime
during the spring other than the Easter holidays. The fact that they have decided to have Junior Speaking is bad
enough, but to attempt an experiment which no other class has ever tried makes the whole venture doubtful. Of course,
it is possible that changing the date of the entertainments and performances will add in some measure to their success,
but this is doubtful. For one reason, it will be more expensive since a larger number of the student body
will be here to be present at the various functions. Then the present junior class will attempt to put over
something larger than the junior class of last year, as the junior class of last year attempted to put on
something "bigger and better" than the class of the year before and so on ad infinitum. And the term bigger
and better is used in this sense and interpreted by the various junior classes as bigger expenditures and liabilities. Junior
Week is something added to the social activities of the school but the price which is paid for it far
exceeds its returns. Quite luckily the junior class of last year managed to emerge from the imbroglio with a balance
on the credit side of the ledger, but this rather was unusual since most of the classes have gone rather
heavily in debt. And it must be remembered that this debt is usually incurred after the class has paid an
enormous assessment per capita and strained the class treasury to the limits. The class is to be congratulated in attempting
something new, and despite these pessimistic predictions, it is possible the class will succeed and really make Junior Speaking something
worthwhile and enjoyable rather than an attempt by each class to see which one can spend the most money per
year. Too frequently have the classes forgotten that they must have all their debts paid before they are allowed to
graduate and have awakened in their senior year with a heavy debt hanging over their heads. Some of the upperclassmen
remember specific examples of this, and it is hoped that these reminders will prevent the junior class from attempting anything
beyond their limits merely for the sake of that intangible something "class pride and spirit."

BROTHER SOPHOMORES
Before the freshman class of this year arrived at Chapel Hill to matriculate at the University of North Carolina for
the present session, each member received a letter from the president of the sophomore class there welcoming him to the
university and explaining the brotherly attitude of the entire institution to all new men. The spirit which prompted this message
is to be highly commended. To a new man, this probably meant more than anything which could possibly have been
done for him. The old days of hazing and bull-dozing of freshmen have passed. Naturally, there is still a little
light hazing and friendly horseplay, but the day of meeting freshmen at the train with paddles has passed away with
peg top pants. The spirit of Carolina in forwarding this spirit of friendliness between the upperclassmen and the new men
is a forward step towards the merging of all men at institutions into a friendly and companionable group. It is
the belief of many that such a spirit exists at Davidson—that is of course, among the majority of the students.
Naturally, in any group, there will be some few who disregard the opinions and rulings of many and break away
from the general traditions. But there has never been any outward expression of this from the student body to the
new men. There have always been the hackneyed welcomes and general talks as to how glad everyone is that the
freshmen are finally here, etc., but there has never been a real personal welcome for new men. The Y. M.
C. A. has done much to foster a spirit of friendliness between the upperclassmen and new men and have always
welcomed freshmen upon their arrival at Davidson. But some of the men of the new class rather feel that the
"Y" is a little of an outside agency, a little older than the freshmen, and a little patronizing. This is
in no way a criticism of the work that the Y. M. C. A. has done for the freshmen but
rather an appeal for the entire student body to enter into the spirit which the "Y" has always had for
the men just arriving. Davidson would do well to emulate the spirit of her sister institution in regard to this
treatment of the new men. That is, Davidson should show the new men the real spirit which surrounds the upperclassmen.
It would indeed be a forward step if there were some organization which would undertake this task. Davidson has a
nation-wide reputation for the friendliness of its students, but the new man just arriving does not understand this. He still
feels that he is rather an outsider and not yet within this brotherly spirit. It will be the duty of
the upperclassmen to make the freshman of future years understand that he is really welcomed by the men of the
other classes and that he has a real friend in each student here.

THOUGHTLESSNESS
From certain aspects, it seems that Davidson students are probably the most thoughtless creatures in existence. This is particularly true
of their treatment of the buildings and grounds around the college. Throwing away a cigarette stub, or chewing gum, might
seem trivial as a single action but the effect of the whole is rather imposing. If one were inclined to
be statistical, he could calculate how many cigarettes were thrown on the floors of Chambers per week, how many made
lasting scars, how much wood was burned after these stubs had been thrown down, etc. But anyone can readily see
the evidences of thoughtlessness anywhere in the new building. And it is thoughtless, for any man could be persuaded to
throw away his cigarette or chewing gum before he entered the building, if someone would mention the fact to him.
The average student does not stop to think of the damage to the floor when he throws away a cigarette
which is still burning and will continue to burn for a minute or so. If the student would only stop
to think, he would remember that these buildings are not really his, but belong to the composite student body of
Davidson for several generations. That these buildings are a sacred trust, for the use of the students surely, but not
for them to mar and disfigure. Last year after a certain football contest, signs were painted on the outside of
the buildings and ruined the appearance for several weeks. Some of these marks are still apparent though there have been
numerous efforts to erase them. But there are many students who are disfiguring the buildings every day by their thoughtless
acts. As has been said before, these are trivial things, but these trivial things will sooner or later mar the
beauty of the entire building. A little thoughtfulness will prevent much of this, for it is hardly conceivable that there
are students here who would do such things deliberately and maliciously.

AND ANOTHER THING
The game at Gastonia last Saturday proved among other things that Davidson still puts out a football team every year,
despite the fact that certain sport writers insist that Davidson is nil as far as sports are con-cerned. But another
thing was evident over there also. And this was the fact that Davidson sorely needs another song, a real alma
mater hymn, or some similar type of a college anthem. “O Davidson” is excellent, but it should not be played
throughout the entire game. Another song is needed, which could be played once or twice during the contest to relieve
the monotony of the single piece. Twenty or thirty colleges have words very similar to “College Ties” and fifty or
more have a song to the tune of Glorianna, which some have suggested be a national alma mater song for
all the universities and colleges in the country. So this song is not distinctive in the least, people witnessing the
game hardly know for which school the selection is being played, there being so many who use the tune. There
is a pressing need for someone to write a song, distinctively Davidson in its tone, and played to a tune
which no other college uses. There has been a vast improvement in the yells used this year, and if there
was another song which could be used the entire spirit at games would be greatly improved.

Open Forum Ollapodrida
(This department is conducted by the editor for the benefit of those who wish to express themselves in the columns
of the paper. All articles must be signed and turned in to the editor before 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

WHAT PRICE JUNIOR SPEAKING?
Once more a Junior class, immature in their judgment, ignorant of finances, and excited by their social responsibility has been
swept out by the undertow of tradition and voted in another orgy of sleepless nights and dull entertainment, Junior Speaking.
In a few weeks a chairman will be elected, innumerable committees will be appointed and forty or more men will
wedge one more activity into a college life now too full. How long must we wait until enough sensible men
can be brought into one class to veto the foolish tradition of their predecessors? The affair was voted in by
a small majority and with only a few minutes consideration. In that few minutes the class voted away a thousand
or more dollars, an inestimable amount of time and the goodwill of the remainder of the student body. There is
but one class in school, the seniors, who could call upon the Juniors to sponsor the festivities and after a
similar experience it goes without saying that the seniors would raise little or no objection. To raise funds the Juniors
will have to dig deep into their own pockets and then call upon the remainder of the students to attend
poorly arranged, amateur theatrical performances to which the admission price is but a gift. Even when this has been done
last year’s class was the only one in recent history that has come out on the right side of the
ledger and they still have forty or more assessments uncollected. A number of Juniors have expressed themselves as opposed to
Junior Speaking, but have voted for it when a show of hands was taken because of student opinion or political
aspirations. The Junior class would do well to reconsider and vote by secret ballot. Some have expressed the opinion that
it would be a blot on the class to go on record as opposed to Junior Speaking. Seniors experienced in
the art of Junior Speaking believe otherwise. Juniors might well confer with those who have had experience before taking final
action.
Walter L. Lingle, Jr.

Among other things to wonder about—no one has mentioned the famous Sacco-Vanzetti case in the last two or three weeks—why
no one ever hears of George Young anymore—where Lindbergh is now—and what became of Maitland and Hegenberger? Our government’s less
warlike attitude toward Mexico and its dispatch in bringing peace to Nicaragua should be credited, by all means, to the
granting last June of the honorary degree of doctor of laws to Secretary Kellogg by New York University (wholesale and
retail). American recognition of Russia is expected to follow similar action by Columbia University (wholesale only). —New Student.

An English professor is requiring his class to paraphrase, line for line, Keats’ “Ode to the West Wind.” We look
forward to the time when some class in the appreciation of art will be told to break up the original
Venus De Milo into tiny bits, in order that they may find what kind of stone was used in making
it—From the Pitt Weekly.

Officials of the Big Ten Universities discouraged mass migrations of students to football games last fall. The University of Chicago
was the first to take measures in this direction.

September the 22nd as other days has come and passed, the crowds have disappeared and Chicago has settled down once
more to the humdrum of life with nothing more exciting than Scarface Capone and his machine guns. Like other “I
told you so’s” (the writer picked the winner but in a moment of weakness and indecision failed to name him
in this column before the fight, thus missing an editorial coup). Youth once more has triumphed over age and in
turn will slip out of the picture with the passing years. The age of the successful athlete is hardly half
of “three score and ten.” Chicago’s other leading battler Scarface Al Capone is nearing his age of least resistance by
the gangster’s law of averages. No gang leader in Chicago has held his position for more than two years and
it is now practically two years since Capone’s henchmen sent a rain of bullets through the body of his chief
contender. Since Big Bill Thompson’s inauguration as mayor the illicit liquor traffic has become more and more unhampered and would-be-bootleg
kings are arising on all sides. At present the gang leaders are living under a truce, but a truce which
is enforced only by the fear of a quicker trigger finger. During the last few months Chicago gangsters have acquired
five more Thompson machine guns by illegal methods and they will not be used as toys for the children.

Bulls on the stock market last week stopped in their mad upward drive and gave way to a few days
of short trading. As a result leading industrials and rails tumbled, dropped off from ten to twenty points in some
cases. “A technical reaction” said the bulls. “The bursting point of a bloated market” said the bears. The present bullish
tendency started two years ago and since that time bears have found scant grazing. After two days of decline the
market recovered and started up the ladder once more but not with the same energy as a few days before.
A rapid decline is not likely but leading industrials are near their peak.

A new advertising step was taken by one company that makes a business of prophesying market fluctuations, when they took
a double page in a leading periodical last week to tell the world by conclusive figures that their prophecies were
correct. The sixty-seven inches which they had recommended to their clients six months ago had risen a total of 1,300
points; not a very good test of their mystic prowess in consideration of the rapid advance of the leading stocks.
When the “shorts” regain control some day, they will be sorely tested to pick the winners. Incidentally General Motors was
not among the sixty-seven. As someone has said, “There are few people who will tell you how to lose playing
the market, but there are plenty who will help you for an eighth of one per cent.”

“Revelry,” the latest in scandal plays, has opened its season in Philadelphia and later in New York. Maurine Watkins, the
pretty authoress, expects an even greater success for it than for her first play, “Chicago.” In an extremely thin veiled
way the play depicts the regime of one-time president Warren Harding, with its graft, oil scandals and loose government. Naturally,
an attempted injunction was immediately forthcoming. It failed to materialize, but Miss Watkins might find some better subject to commercialize
than the folly of the American public.
W. L. L.

From all appearances, it seems that the Duke Chronicle is well on its way to gain again the honor which
was accorded it at the last N. C. press convention. Its first issue lives up to its reputation of being
the best collegiate newspaper in the state. The State Technician also has improved greatly in appearance and makeup since last
year. No exchanges have been received from Carolina yet, but from all appearances, as Jake Wade would put it, Davidson
seems slated for the cellar berth. But Mr. Wade’s predictions have failed to materialize in some few instances,—so the outlook
may not be so pessimistic as some would have it.

The college as a whole seems to be rounding into mid-season form already. Class meetings, Junior Speaking announcements, annual notices,
etc., are beginning to fill up the chapel period once more. The loss of such veterans as Don Wharton, McIlwaine,
etc., is very depressing, however.

Under a recent court ruling, cows may walk the highways of Panama devoid of head or tail lights, bells, or
other warning devices. Tuition in Mountain Home College in Arkansas is paid with buckets of sorghum molasses and slabs of
home-cured bacon.

No poisonous reptiles and few wild animals are to be found in Japan.
