THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1927

— Alumni Council Meets Here Tonight For Final Direction of Plans For Work During This Year

First Meeting Held During Month of June

DR. MATHESON HEAD

Extensive Program of Alumni Work Will Be Perfected in Meeting Tonight

Dr. J. P. Matheson, ’99, of Charlotte, president of the Davidson College Alumni Association, and also president of the Alumni Council, has called a meeting of the latter body to be held at Davidson tonight at 7:30 o'clock in the office of the Alumni Secretary. The meeting will be preceded by supper at the Maxwell Chambers hotel.

The Alumni Council—a group of alumni to direct the work of the alumni office—was instituted at commencement last June and is composed of the president and secretary-treasurer of the General Association, and three other members elected by the alumni. In addition to Dr. Matheson, the members are Mr. F. L. Jackson, secretary-treasurer of the association, and Dr. J. C. Rowan, of Concord, president for two years; Dr. Oren Moore, of Charlotte, and Mr. Hugh Query, of Gastonia.

Shortly after commencement the Council met in Charlotte. At that time they re-elected Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, and selected Harllee Branch, Jr., as Assistant Alumni Secretary; they adopted a budget of $5,000, and also adopted the Dix schedule of class reunions, which provides for contemporary classes returning simultaneously.

The Alumni Council also sanctioned the idea of class agents for every class of the past fifty years, who will be a “contact” man between the individual members of each class and the alumni office. These have been appointed and a letter was mailed to each one this week asking them to accept the responsibility. In this manner, strides will be made toward the development of class pride and loyalty, and class affairs will be more intimately discussed. During the year several letters from each class agent will be sent to members of his group.

It has also been planned by the alumni office to send out address sheets to every class of the past fifty years, thus enabling each one to know where his associate is now located. This was done for those classes which had reunions last year, and such favorable comment was received that it was thought advisable to do this for every class. Many new addresses are obtained at the same time that the alumni office is doing a service to the classes.

Another new feature in the alumni work this year is the adoption of the dues plan of financing, in lieu of the Loyalty

IMPERIAL

Only Three More Days to See “The Big Parade” at Popular Prices

NEXT WEEK

Mon., Tues., Wed. Thurs., Fri., Sat.

Florence Vidor in One Woman To Another

Olive Borden in The Joy Girl

A Real Youthful Picture

also News—Comedy

also Fables—Comedy

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Mr. Kenneth Harris, ex-’27, of Brevard, N.C., married Miss Dorothy Closson, of Circleville, Ohio, at Newport, Ky., on last January 8th. The marriage of Mr. Harris and Miss Closson marked the culmination of a romance which began in Cincinnati, Ohio, when both the bride and groom were students at the Cincinnati Art Academy. Following their marriage Mr. and Mrs. Harris returned to Brevard, N.C., where they lived until a few weeks ago, when they moved to Charlotte, where Mr. Harris was called to accept a position in the art department of the Queen City Printing Co. They are now residing at 14 Alberto St., Myers Park, Charlotte.

An announcement has been received at the college of the marriage during the summer months of Mr. J. M. Wells, Jr., ’16, to Miss Rose Seawright, of Winston-Salem, at Winston-Salem. Mr. and Mrs. Wells are residing in Winston-Salem.

Announcement has also been received of the marriage of Mr. E. P. O’Connor, ex-’26, to Miss Corinne Parker, at Rome, Ga., during the summer months. Mr. and Mrs. O'Connor are now residing in Chattanooga, Tenn.

Dr. Frank K. Haynes, ’12, was married to Miss Gertrude Dickinson, at the home of the bride’s parents on North College St., Charlotte, on the evening of September 6th. Rev. Luther Little, pastor of the First Baptist Church officiated. The wedding came as a surprise to the wide circle of friends of both bride and groom, no announcement having been made of the engagement. Immediately after the ceremony the bride and bridegroom left for a honeymoon trip to Washington and New York. They are residing at the home of the bride’s parents until completion of their new residence on Greenwood Cliffe, in Charlotte, where Dr. Haynes is engaged in the practice of dentistry.League idea, which has been in operation for two years. The latter provided for a distribution of funds received into three uses, viz: professors’ travel, athletics, and alumni work, while the new plan states that all funds received will go toward fostering alumni activity. In addition to the blotter announcing the football schedule and the date of the Homecoming Celebration, a small pocket card giving the schedule was also sent to alumni last week.

Three Alumni Meetings in Florida Next Week
S.-G.-N.-F. Association Also Meets Tomorrow Night at Bainbridge, Georgia

The General Alumni Association of Davidson College has planned a program of organization this year which will cover the entire South, and several Northern points at which there are sufficient alumni to perfect an organization. The aim which has been set is forty associations, as compared with the sixteen that were re-organized or met at various times during the past year. The first meeting of this series will be held tomorrow night when the S.-G.-N.-F. (South Georgia-North Florida) Alumni Association will meet at a banquet in Bainbridge, Ga. This territory covers approximately fifteen cities or towns in that immediate section.

Plans at this meeting will be made to attend the football game with the University of Florida at Gainesville on October 1st, and efforts will be made to form a motor cavalcade at Madison, Fla., which is one hundred miles from Gainesville. J. J. J. Love, ’19, of Quincy, Fla., will act as toastmaster. Next Tuesday Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, will leave for Jacksonville, Fla., to begin the organization of three Alumni Associations in Florida. The first one will be held at Jacksonville Wednesday night, September 28th, at which point many former Davidson men reside. The following night an organization will be perfected at Orlando, Fla., which will take care of the Davidson alumni in the central section of the “Sunshine State,” while the Florida West Coast alumni will be organized at St. Petersburg on Friday, which will then be the farthest point south where Davidson has an alumni organization. An insufficient number of alumni will prevent an association on the east coast of Florida. J. D. Baker, Jr., is in charge of the arrangements at Jacksonville; Z. N. Holler, who resides at Sanford, is making arrangements at Orlando, while C. R. Anderson is taking care of the St. Petersburg organization.

Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Charlotte, N. C.
Has stood the test of time
The Commercial National Bank
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

Founded 1847 and stands ready to serve your banking needs.

COLLEGE JEWELRY

ALUMNI DEATHS

DR. J. S. LAFFERTY
Dr. James S. Lafferty, '86, prominently known retired physician, died at his home in Concord, N. C., on the afternoon of September 12th, following an illness of several months. Funeral services were conducted by Dr. J. C. Rowan, '04, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Concord on the following afternoon. Interment was at Oakwood cemetery. Dr. Lafferty graduated from Davidson in the class of 1886 and attended medical college at the University of Maryland. He practiced in China Grove before removing to Concord, where he lived for 20 years prior to his death. He was 74 years of age at the time of his death. He is survived by Rev. J. W. Lafferty, '83, of Rome, Ga., a brother; three sisters; and Dr. Robert H. Lafferty, ’99, of Charlotte, Parks M. Lafferty, ’07, James B. Lafferty, sons; and Mrs. J. L. Ross and Mrs. J. C. Wadsworth, daughters, all of Concord, N. C.

Music in realistic instrument, you.
Music Dept. HAS NEW CHARM

In thousands of homes music means more today than ever before, because Orthophonic music is richer, clearer, more realistic! This wonderful instrument, with its exclusive principle, stands absolutely alone. We'll gladly play it for you.

Braker Gacdaee Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

STATIONERY

We have a complete line of the choicest writing papers, from the highest grade parchment bond to the neatest laid finish. Come in and make your selection. Nothing reveals your good taste more than the stationery you use in your correspondence.

Students Store
“Owned and Operated by the Students”
It’s yours, why not patronize it?