THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 28, 1927

PUBLICATIONS BOARD MAKES ANNOUNCEMENT OF MANAGERS

The Davidson Publications Board last Tuesday night officially appointed the following men to be the business managers of the college
publications: M. P. Crawford, manager of The Davidsonian; C. R. Rowe, manager of Quips and Cranks, and C. C. Trabue,
manager of The Chameleon. These new men will probably take immediate charge of their respective journals.

The Publications Board consists of H. M. Austin, president; Harllee Branch, and Don Wharton, and Professors Fleagle and Jack as
faculty members. The student representatives are elected annually by a popular vote of the student body. The man receiving the
highest number of votes is automatically elected president of the board. No member, of necessity, needs to be on the
staff of any of the publications, though lately it has been the custom to elect the editors of various publications
to the board.

M. P. Crawford was selected from a field of three, consisting of Julian Lake, Ed Douglas, and himself. Crawford is
from Charlotte, N. C. During the three years that he has been here, he has worked hard on the business
end of The Davidsonian and is universally liked on the campus. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

C. R. Rowe, the new business manager of the annual, has his home in Fredericksburg, Va. He is one of
the Junior managers of baseball and was recently elected editor of the 1927 Wildcat Handbook and “Y” Handbook combined. Carter
is a member of the Delta Theta Chi social fraternity.

C. C. Trabue, recently chosen business manager of The Chameleon, has taken an active interest in business managerships all the
time he has been here, working on the business staffs of both the Quips and Cranks and The Chameleon. He
is first sergeant of Company “D”. Charlie’s home is in Nashville, Tenn. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi
fraternity.

Suicide Opponents Found Local Club

The organization of the first suicide club south of the Mason-Dixon line was perfected Monday evening on the Davidson campus,
when eight Davidson students banded themselves together in the Suicide Club. The organization expects to seek national recognition sometime within
the near future. Coming at this time of widespread publicity concerning the subject of suicide, the organization of this club
at Davidson is expected to be received with considerable interest.

The charter members of the organization were very anxious to avoid a misconception of their purpose in the organization. The
principal purpose and aim of the club is to study the question of suicide, weigh carefully the merits and advantages
in each case as far as possible, and lead to tolerance in our attitude toward the subject. Statements that the
members were dogmatically in sympathy with suicide were denied, but it was generally admitted that it was not entirely without
advantages. The club went on record, after consideration of the question, as being in hearty discord with the universal attitude
of instant denunciation of a suicide by the national press.

The charter members of the club are: James Hall, T. T. Jones, T. G. McCutchen, W. G. Ogden, Buford Webb,
Caldwell Withers, J. G. Wharton, and L. D. Wharton, Jr. The membership will be confined to the members of the
student body. Due to the recentness of the organization, the club has not affiliated as yet with the Honorary Fraternity
Council, and so was not able to issue bids for the coming year on the regular “bid day.”

Experienced pipe-smokers from Cape Lisburne to Cape Sable (get out your map of North America!) recommend P. A. to you
as the finest tobacco that ever lined the bowl of a pipe. You'll check-in with their recommendation. Why, the instant
you swing back the hinged lid on the tidy red tin, your olfactory nerve registers a fragrance like that of
a pine-grove on a damp morning. And when you tuck a load of this wonderful tobacco into your pipe —
say, P. A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and always with every bit
of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process. Sweet as the plaudits of a first-night audience. Mild as
morning in Cape Sable. (That’s working-in the old geography!) Mild, yet with a full tobacco body that completely satisfies your
smoke-taste. Buy some Prince Albert today and check-in with their recommendation.

Fresh Choose Two Council Members

The first ballot for the selection of two councilmen from the rising Sophomore class was held Wednesday morning, April 19,
immediately following the holidays. Seven men were nominated from the floor: Alan Frew, T. R. Carson, T. W. Brohard, G.
P. Henderson, Scott Brown, J. D. Hammett, and R. S. Reynolds. Five ballots were necessary to choose the two men.
Alan Frew, the retiring president of the Freshman class, was elected on the first ballot by a decisive margin, the
remainder of the votes being evenly distributed.

Dr. Wm. T. Martin has announced the fact that he has secured two of the speakers who will deliver addresses
at the ninety-first commencement of Davidson College. These men are:Judge W. P. Stacy, of Raleigh, N. C., and Rev. J.
L. MacMillan, of Norfolk, Va. Judge Stacy, chief justice of the Supreme Court of North Carolina, will deliver the literary
address to the graduates, the undergraduates, and their friends, on the night of May 31. He is one of the
leading barristers of the state as indicated by his position, and the college is indeed fortunate to have secured his
services.

Rev. J. L. MacMillan, D.D., is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Norfolk, Va., and will preach the baccalaureate
sermon in the Davidson church, on Sunday morning, May 29. Dr. MacMillan is said to possess an unusual appeal for
young people of college age.

The officials of the local “Y” state that they have not yet secured a speaker who will preach the annual
sermon before that organization, but when he is selected, the roster of speakers will be complete.

As the time was limited and it was necessary to elect a second councilman before the following morning, a special
meeting of the class was called at 7:00 p.m. With a majority of the class present, the second ballot eliminated
Carson and Hammett; Brown was eliminated in the third, Reynolds in the fourth, and Brohard in the fifth, leaving Henderson
and Frew as the councilmen for the Sophomore class for the year ’27-’28. C. R. Pritchett automatically became a member
on being elected to the presidency of the class.

Frew, for the past four months, has proven himself, both to the class and to the student body, as a
well-qualified man to perform the privileged duties of a councilman. The majority he received in the election showed his popularity
with every member of his class. During his administration, he has carried through many original ideas. In looking forward to
the future, he has devised a scheme by which the class of ’30 will not be so heavily taxed during
their Junior and Senior years. The class banquet at Charlotte, with the Chamber of Commerce as their host, was a
great success, with Frew presiding. By gaining the cooperation of the class with the desires of the Court of Control,
he has gained for them the privilege of removing their fresh caps sooner than classes heretofore have been allowed to
remove them.

G. P. Henderson, better known as “Doc,” a three-letter man from the Gastonia High School, entered the class a month
or so late last fall on account of illness. All this year he has been kept from entering the class’
athletics on account of a bad leg. It is hoped, however, that that leg will get better and “Doc” will
get back into his old style next fall and be added strength to the Wildcats.

Man may learn to fly like a bird but he'll never learn to sit on a barbed wire fence.

COUNCIL (Continued from page 1)

The Biology club bid five Juniors. The list of those bid is as follows:

Sigma Upsilon: D. W. Hancock, P. F. Jones, Boyce Martin, H. L. Shelby, Caldwell Withers.

Delta Pi Kappa: A. N. Brown, C. R. Lake, J. B. Moriarity, W. K. Pritchett, H. L. Shelby.

Omega Phi Alpha: J. S. Gray, D. Howard, T. T. Jones, R. R. Kane, Boyce Martin, C. S. McRae, F.
C. Withers, J. G. Wharton.

Alpha Phi Epsilon: F. D. Daniel, W. L. Dumas, Jr., J. R. Graham, R. C. Grady, R. F. Hall, Warren
Ogden, L. K. Pritchett, W. K. Pritchett, Rowland Sims, Buford Webb.

International Relations Club: John Akers, J. R. Covington, M. T. Gilmour, R. C. Grady, J. R. Graham, E. R. McConnell,
J. P. McKnight, W. K. Pritchett, C. C. Trabue.

Scabbard and Blade: H. B. Arbuckle, Jr., W. B. Bradford, P. J. Garrison, Julian Lake, J. C. McNeely, M. C.
O'Neal, P. W. Walton.

Biology Club: M. P. Crawford, Duncan McEachern, G. S. McSwain, C. R. Rowe, D. G. Shaw.

Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see VERNON S. BROYLES
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

S&W Cafeterias
CHARLOTTE GREENVILLE ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
