TH EDAVIDSONIAN © FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. XIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 5, 1927 No. 28

COLLEGE EDITORS HOLD SEMI-ANNUAL CONCLAVE AT N.C. WOMAN’S COLLEGE

Five Davidson Journalists Attend Greensboro Meeting in Interest of Publications—Major Jeffress to Address Convention Friday Afternoon

North Carolina College for Women, at Greensboro, will be the host to the North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association at the semi-annual meeting to be held on May 5, 6, and 7. There will be five men representing the Davidson publications, V. S. Broyles, Martin Crawford and Boyce Martin, for The Davidsonian; D. W. Hancock for the annual and J. G. Wharton for The Chameleon.

The delegates are expected to arrive in Greensboro Thursday afternoon in time for the banquet that night at the O. Henry Hotel. The time for the banquet is 8:00 o'clock, at which time the representatives will have a chance to become acquainted. Friday morning various questions will be discussed by newspaper men and group meetings will be held. Friday afternoon Major Jeffress, who is connected with the Greensboro Daily, will address the assembled delegates. Sometime during the day the Press Association members will be driven over the city by the Civilian Club, and Friday night a buffet supper will be served which will be followed by the annual dance drama at the Peabody Park.

Saturday morning will be devoted to business, principally that of the election of officers for the coming year. The present officers are as follows: Bryan Haworth, of The Guilfordian, president; V. S. Broyles, of The Davidsonian, vice-president; Sally Gordon, of the magazine of Greensboro College for Women, second vice-president; Dorothy Siewens, of The Salemite, secretary.

(Continued on page 3)

New Students’ Store Managers Selected

“Spike” McGee has been elected next year’s manager of the Student Store, and J. R. McCravey has been chosen as assistant manager. The Board of Directors of the Student Store, which is now composed of Dr. J. M. Douglas, Jim Pinkney, Ernest Bohannon, and Heber McIlwaine, selected these two from a rather large number of applicants. It was believed that faithfulness in these two in their work as clerks and their business ability best fitted them for the position.

Under the very capable management of Jim Kuykendall as manager and F. R. Adams, the Student Store has had a very successful year. As is generally known the Student Store has been able not only to deposit a considerable sum for the purpose of building a swimming pool, but to support many student organizations such as sending Davidson's representatives to the Southern Student Conference each year. The Student Store has also actively supported college publications by constant advertising.

A new Board of Directors is to be selected soon. In the past there have been two members of the Faculty on it in addition to three student directors. Two of the three student directors are, as a rule, the president of the student body and the president of the athletic association. The third member is from the student councilors of the rising Senior class. Heber McIlwaine was this man on the present board of directors.

The Student Store has for the last several years filled a great need in the life of the students. Its first term of existence found

(Continued on page 2)

Wildcat Doubles Team Captures Tennis Title Third Successive Year

Trophy Cup Becomes Permanent Possession of Davidson

RODDEY SINGLES FINALIST

McCutchen and Carr Defeat Strong Duke Team in Final Round Playing Five Sets

Davidson and Duke split honors for first place in the recent Intercollegiate tennis tournament at Chapel Hill, Carr and McCutchen, Davidson's champion doubles team, winning the state title for the third year, while Whisnant, of Duke, defeated John Roddey for the singles title.

McCutchen and Carr, defending the doubles title for Davidson, advanced to the finals on Thursday, defeating Powers and Hall, of Wake Forest, in straight sets, 6-1, 6-2. The Wildcats, in the first round of the tournament, won from Duke's second team by an easy 6-1, 6-1 score. Roddey and McAlpine, playing positions three and four for the Wildcats, lost the first round of the doubles to the strong Carolina team. In the finals, the defenders had to go the full five sets before they finally downed the Duke team composed of Whisnant, the present singles winner, and his partner, Rogers, former holder of the singles title. The score for the finals was 6-0, 0-6, 6-3, 1-6, 6-2.

Since Captain McCutchen has played on the Davidson team which has won for three straight years, the Wildcats take the cup home for keeps this time. Last year McCutchen, playing with Carr, won the title at Chapel Hill. In 1925 McCutchen was part

(Continued on page 2)

Office for Stadium to be Given by ’27

The gift which the class of '27 will contribute to the college will be in the form of a handsome and highly useful ticket booth for the new stadium and athletic field. It will be constructed of white stone and red brick and of the same type of architecture as the stadium. Its dimensions are to be six feet by ten and will include the booth proper and a turnstile. Besides adding decidedly to the attractiveness of the lower campus the gift will greatly facilitate the matter of handling the big crowds at the football games. In the appropriateness and cost of the gift of this year’s class they have equaled if not excelled all classes of the past.

Noticeable gifts of past classes scattered around the campus are the large stone gate presented by the class of ’24, the numerous stone benches placed beneath the trees, and the lights placed upon the library steps and in front of the gym. Other classes have carried out the custom by giving books to the library and by numerous other gifts.

The gift will be officially presented to the college with appropriate ceremonies on the class day, which will be held some time during commencement week.

Martin Elected Officer of Southern Students at Recent Kentucky Meeting

At a meeting of the Southern Federation of College Students, held last week at the University of Kentucky, Boyce Martin was elected secretary-treasurer of the conference, succeeding Jim Pinkney, holder of that office during the last year. The election of officers was held at the final meeting of a two-day session, the conference being brought to a close on Saturday afternoon. Martin was elected from a number of nominees, some of them from the leading universities of the South, and his selection is a tribute both to his own recognized ability and to the continued position of influence held by Davidson among the youth of the Southland.

With Martin as Davidson’s representative to the conference went H. M. Arrowood, president of the Davidson student body. Jim Pinkney, former secretary-treasurer of the federation and retiring president of the student body, was unable to attend. Walter James, of Georgia Tech, was elected president of the federation, and John Bullock, of the University of Kentucky, vice-president. Both are leaders on their respective campuses.

Following the election it was decided that the next meeting of the federation, in the late spring of 1928, will be held at the University of Alabama. The conference considered various student problems, Dean Turch, of the School of Law, University of Kentucky, being the principal speaker of the conference. Col. H. B. Hobbs,of the U.S. Army, was another speaker, his subject being “The Relation of R.O.T.C. to the College.” (Continued on page 6)

Arbiters of Frosh Conduct Appointed

Appointments have been made by the Student Council for positions on the Court of Control for 1927-28. F. S. Wearn, of the rising Senior class, is the judge of the new court. The Senior members will be Lynn McLain, W. L. Lingle, and Rod McRae. Of the rising Juniors, M. T. Gilmore and R. E. Kell and J. D. Hammett and A. N. Halverstadt were appointed as Sophomore members of the court. “Piggy” Wearn, the new judge, will take charge of affairs in time to prepare a set of rules and regulations for the class of ’31. The present judge, “Abe” Lincoln, will have completed his work after Soph Day this year. The function of the Court of Control is to boost the freshmen and to enforce certain rules and regulations which have to be set on them. Since the abolishment of hazing, the Court of Control has been active in helping freshmen and also in keeping them in check. Restrictions such as the wearing of fresh caps, keeping off the grass, and keeping their seats in chapel have to be placed on freshmen to keep them from over-running privileges. “Abe” Lincoln and this year’s court have set a precedent for those of future years in allowing the freshmen to remove their caps about the middle of the spring semester. This regulation necessarily places Soph Day earlier in the year. The court for this year was: “Abe” Lincoln (Continued on page 2)

The Court of Control, backed by the Soph class, has set May 14 as Soph Day. The function of the Court of Control is to boost the freshmen and to enforce certain rules and regulations which have to be set on them. Since the abolishment of hazing, the Court of Control has been active in helping freshmen and also in keeping them in check. Restrictions such as the wearing of fresh caps, keeping off the grass, and keeping their seats in chapel have to be placed on freshmen to keep them from over-running privileges. “Abe” Lincoln and this year’s court have set a precedent for those of future years in allowing the freshmen to remove their caps about the middle of the spring semester. This regulation necessarily places Soph Day earlier in the year. The court for this year was: “Abe” Lincoln (Continued on page 2)

Students to Gather at Blue Ridge Conference

Ten Men Compose Quota of Davidson Representatives

Representatives from the various colleges and universities of the South will meet at Blue Ridge, N.C., from June 17th to 26th. The occasion of this meeting is the annual Southern Conference of the Y.M.C.A. and the Y.W.C.A. Hitherto the conferences have been held separate but this year it has been judged best to hold the two conferences in conjunction. One thousand delegates from the different schools of the South are expected to attend this conference. The quota allowed to Davidson is ten men. Last year Davidson had the largest delegation in her history when she sent seven men and it is hoped to better this mark this year.

Sophs Make Plans For Fresh Capers

The annual Soph Day has been definitely set for May 14, on which day the Sophomore class will have entire charge of affairs with the rising Sophomores accepting the administration of events as participants. For the past several years, in fact ever since the inauguration of such an idea, the plan has met with great success, and this year will prove no exception to the rule unless it is that the Soph Day of 1927 will reveal itself as an even greater success than such past days. The activities scheduled for any one day are a complete whole, all business will be finished on the day started and not carried over to the following day. A typical day would work out as follows:

First. Following the morning session the student discussion group leaders will meet with the executive committee to determine what problem or subject will be treated on the following day.

Second. At 7:00 o'clock the conference will meet in small personal and fellowship groups to discuss the problems of the day.

Third. From 7:30 to 8:30 there will be a hillside address by some noted speaker on the attitude of Jesus toward the problems of today.

Fourth. After rising, there will follow a brief devotional period at 8:30.

Fifth. At 9:00 o'clock there will be an open forum in which there will be at least two speakers. The subject will be “Helps From Science and Experience.” Following there will be an open forum discussion of the talk.

A committee from the class of ’29 has been appointed to innovate plans hereto unheard of and to renovate highly touted ones of recent years. This committee, with Raymond Lake as chairman, is composed of Bill Powell, Hub Knox, Dick Parker, Reid Graham, John Moriarty, Monroe Gilmour, Nelson Myers and Bob Grady, and reports from the same indicate a day of surprises for the Freshman and onlookers alike; the surprises to be more pleasant to the latter. No word has escaped the committee as to what Soph Day will bring forth. In fact, all the schemes and different events are being kept secret, not to be given to the general public, student body and the awed and bewildered Freshmen until the eventful day.

As on former occasions, a full day will be given over to the activities of the Freshmen, beginning early in the morning and following a set schedule until late at night. The schedule will be a complete whole, all business will be finished on the day started and not carried over to the following day.

North Carolina Academy of Scientists Holds Annual Meeting Here This Week

CATS OUTHIT GOBBLERS BUT ERRORS CAUSE LOSS OF GAME BY 10-8 SCORE

Numerous Hits and Errors Feature Monday’s Loosely Played Game — V.P.I. Takes Lead in Early Innings Which is Maintained

In a game remarkable only for a superfluity of errors, the Davidson Wildcats went down in defeat to V.P.I. on last Monday afternoon, to the tune of a 10-8 score. Davidson was never ahead after the first inning, but was within one point of the winners at one time, and but for an even dozen miscues should have won with ease. Both Wells and Meadows pitched beautiful ball in the face of a discouraging lack of support by their teammates, and the hits of the Gobblers were for the most part well scattered. Had the Davidsonians’ errors been equally well scattered the outcome might have been different. Ratchford led the Wildcats at the bat, with three hits in five trips to the plate, and did well in the field, with four put-outs in five chances. Hal Johnson had the distinction of being the only member of the Davidson team to play nine innings without an error. Meadows had a clean slate as well, but his stay in the game was for only two innings. Woodham and Dulin each made two hits, but offset this good record by making somewhat more than their share of misplays. Wells struck out four men, Meadows two, and Handy one. The V.P.I. players were not perfect in their play, making five errors, mostly in the fatal fourth inning in which Davidson scored six runs. Their eight hits were divided among as many men. Sexton, who relieved Handy, tightened down on the Wildcats and allowed only one run in five innings. Alexander and Willey were perfect in fielding. Box score and summary: (Continued on page 6)

On Friday and Saturday, May 6 and 7, the North Carolina Academy of Science will hold its twenty-sixth annual meeting and the North Carolina Section of the American Chemical Society will hold its spring meeting at Davidson. The following is a calendar of the events that will take place in the course of the two meetings:

Friday, May 6th
10:30 A.M.—Presentation of papers. Shearer Hall.
2:30 P.M.—Meeting of Executive Committee.
3:00 P.M.—Presentation of papers.
4:45 P.M.—Business meeting and election of officers.
8:00 P.M.—Address of Welcome, President Martin, Davidson College; Presidential Address, President Bert Cunningham, of the Academy of Science.
9:00 P.M.—Informal Social Hour in the Quadranglers Club Rooms, as the guests of the Quadranglers Club.

Saturday, May 7th
9:00 A.M.—Separate meetings: General Section, Shearer Hall; Chemical Section, Martin Chemical Laboratory; Physics and Mathematics Section, Greek Class Room.

Papers will be presented to the Academy by the following college representatives:
State College: E. E. Randolph, G. W. Fant, R. E. Poole, F. E. Rice, Joseph L. Stuckey, G. R. Shelton, Donald B. Anderson, F. B. Meacham, C. H. Brannon, and F. G. Hall.
University of North Carolina: W. C. Coker, E. Y. Kyser, H. V. Wilson, W. F. Prouty, (Continued on page 2)