THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1927

PLAYING THE GAME With Withers

Hurricane Blows This Week’s Games Wrestling Trip High School Meet “Best in South” Spring Practice Begins Following Call Issued by
Coach Tilson Friday Line Instructor to Have Help of Coach Mattox in First Work-Out

Spring football practice at Davidson began. The Purple Hurricane from Furman continued to blow with its usual strength against Davidson
last Saturday night by trouncing the Wildcats 39 to 24. Furman, one of the strongest teams in the South this
season, has twice defeated the University of South Carolina, rated by able critics as one of the best quints in
the Southern Conference, and several other of the leading Palmetto state fives.

Grapplers Go North to Meet Strong Army Team at West Point Saturday Withdrawal of Heavyweight Vance from School Heavy Blow
to Wildcat Hopes

Both teams played erratic ball and clearly demonstrated either lack of practice or fatigue. Davidson had had a holiday of
10 days due to examinations and Furman suffered a breakdown between Greenville and Davidson and were thoroughly tired out when
the campus was gained. Funderburke and Dorman, two substitutes for the South Carolina Baptists, were the outstanding stars of the
contest, with Captain Anderson, of the local five, pushing them closely for honors.

Captain Weems’ grapplers have stuck right on the job all through exams, keeping in training, and will be in good
shape for the West Point meet, which comes this Saturday. This is held to be one of the hardest meets
of the year. The team will leave here next Thursday night. The team may wrestle Baltimore Y. M. C. A.
on the return trip, but no agreement has been made with them as yet.

With the exception of the fact that Vance’s leaving school leaves no strong man in the heavyweight class, the team
will be in fine shape to win the meet. H. L. Laws is out for the heavy position now, and
has been showing up well. The line-up of the Wildcats will probably be slightly different from the one against West
Point: Captain Frierson, Flythe, Davis, Estridge or Garrison, Crinkley, Hill, and a man to be chosen for the heavyweight class
within the next few days.

A meet for the freshmen has been arranged with Barium Springs, and others are pending with the high schools of
Winston-Salem and Salisbury. Captain Weems is very anxious that a number of freshmen continue to turn out regularly. About four
of the regular wrestlers will be lost this year by graduation. The Wildcats have won from Concord “Y” this year
and lost to the State team. The next meet scheduled to be held on the Hill is with Duke on
February 12th. V. P. I. will be met on February 19th.

Starting back in full force after the exam lull, Coach Younger's basketeers have a strenuous week. Tuesday night the fighting
Christians of Elon College were played in the Alumni gym. The contest proved to be a very interesting affair and
was a battle throughout. One of the strongest outfits in the state in the nature of North Carolina State was
met the following night in Raleigh. The next evening saw the Wildcats grappling the Blue Devils of Duke University. The
Nicotines and the Wildcats so far this season are the unknown quantities in the race for the championship of any
sport. Many sports editors have deliberately placed them out of the running and conceding a decided edge to Carolina, Wake
Forest, and State. The contest tonight decides the fate of one team. The eventful week for the basketball team ends
Saturday night with a bout involving Guilford College.

The wrestling team bites off a goodly chew this Saturday when Captain Weems takes his grapplers North to the United
States Military Academy aggregation. A slight shake-up in the line-up for the Wildcats is brewing and one vacancy has been
created by the withdrawal of Vance from school. The absence will be keenly felt and up to publication-hour no man
had been named to fill Vance’s place. T. L. Laws, however, is the most likely candidate.

Coach Mattox has predicted that the freshmen will have a much better court team this season than last year. Stressing
that the yearlings will have a higher scoring quintet than in recent years, he stated that Pritchett and Baker have
displayed exceptionally fine work and that in all probability will earn permanent berths of the five. Johnson, Mauze, and Smith
complete the starting force of the first team.

WILDCAT TEAM DEFEATED

Excellent Material Out for Track as Plans Are Made for Coming Season Captain Goodykoontz to Issue Call for Cinder Path
Stars First Part of Month

Preliminary practice for the track team will be begun during this week. No definite announcement has been made by Coach
Tex Tilson as to the prospects of the team, but from statistics they look fair. The fact that 10 letter
men are back, and a wealth of reserve material to carry on the flying banners, sounds good, but Captain Goodykoontz
states that not all places are cinched and if a man even thinks he has a feeling toward track, he
will be needed. The dashes seem to be by far the strongest department, with Captain Goodykoontz, Currie, Kell, and Flynn,
entered in those events. Pinkney, O'Neal, and Stigler come in for their part in the half-mile, while Sims will tackle
the hurdles. The distances will be taken care of by Treverton, Ely, Martin, and Webb. A few of these men
have already had their work-outs. It is hoped these changes will guard, and Smith, at center. Moore and McGavock are
substitute guards. The Wildcats team should be whipped into pretty fair condition. The following men will probably make the trip
to out.With the cross-country team, which showed up well, Jennings will again enter the pole vault. The weights will be
carried by two veterans in Lincoln and Bohannon, while the high jumps will be contested between D. M. and R.
G. Calhoun. In the broad jump, there arises a vacancy, which must be filled in by some new material. The
prospects for the freshman team remain uncertain. During the cross-country try-out in the fall, quite a few new men showed
up exceedingly well, and many of them have a somewhat enviable record in both high schools and prep schools. The
team, when chosen, will probably have three meets: one with the high schools, a possible preliminary meet, and finally the
annual state meet.

The schedule for the varsity, which has already been made, is as follows:
March 26—V. P. I., Blacksburg, Va.
April 2—N. C. State, Raleigh, N. C.
April 9—Tech Relay, Atlanta, Ga. (pending).
April 16—U. of S. C., Columbia, S. C.
April 23—Wake Forest, Davidson.
April 30—Duke, at Davidson.
May 7—State Meet, Greensboro, N. C.

SOPH CLASS PLANS
(Continued from page 1)
Certain faculty members will appear as invited guests. They will make speeches on appropriate subjects. Short talks will also be
made by the president and several other prominent members of the class. To execute details of the program for the
banquet, several sub-committees will be appointed.

Spring football practice gets under way this week. Coach Tilson issued a call last week for information in regard to
experience, weight, and later posted a list of men who are ordered to report for practice. A number of men
will be graduated this spring who saw experience in the past four years and will be sadly missed next fall.
A wealth of material is in the freshman class and several stars are likely to be uncovered this spring.

In the last 10 minutes of the game, the Purple Hurricane came from behind with a rush, scoring 13 points
to the Wildcats’ 3, allowing them only one foul shot in the last five minutes of play, while the visitors
were ringing up goal after goal. Coach Tilson has announced that the annual invitation high school track meet will be
held this year on March 19th. This meet brings together some of the best prep school stars in the state
and has always excited unusual interest. Last year the crack team from Charlotte jumped into the lead from the start
and were never headed, the stiffest opposition being from the quarter of the Wildkittens, who were not eligible for the
final.

Furman (39) Position Davidson (24)
Dorman (6) ———— Harrison (6)
Davis ———— LF ———— Hudgins
Brabham (2) (c) Center Wilson (3)
Gibson (2) ———— WCF ———— Simpson (2)
Substitutes—Furman: Funderburke, 11; Wood, 16; Wilkins. Davidson: Calhoun, Grastara.
Referee: Lawson (Georgia).

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

Monday when 75 candidates reported for the initial work-out, with several more men scheduled to report during the week. Coach
Tex Tilson, line instructor of the Wildcat team, will be in charge of the training, while Coach Monk Younger, head
tutor, is in charge of the basketball team. Monk Mattox, freshman mentor, is helping in the first work-outs, as well
as several members of the state championship team of last season.

“The prospects look much better for a scoring team this year,” says Coach Mattox. “More pep, more life, and some
good material brighten the possibilities for a good season. Pritchett has done some commendable floor work, and Baker has been
putting in more good work.”

Up till this week, the practices have been irregular. Starting last Monday, Coach Mattox ordered the commencement of regular, daily
work, and the five are getting under condition for the game next Monday at Oak Ridge. Coach Mattox is working
up a strong defense and stressing clever floor work. The line-up at present is Pritchett and Johnston, at forward; Mauze
and Baker, at guard; and Wilson, at center.

The schedule, as follows, may be supplemented by some high school encounters in neighboring cities:
Feb. 2—Wake Forest—Here.
Feb. 7—Oak Ridge—There.
Feb. 8—N. C. State—There.
Feb. 9—Wake Forest—There.
Feb. 10—Duke—There.
Feb. 17—Bingham—Here.
Feb. 18—Oak Ridge—Here.
Feb. 23—N. C. State—Here.
Feb. 28—Catawba—Here.

EAT AT THE ASTOR
LUNCH SERVICE
THE BEST OF COOKING

College. Flake Laird, a Davidson graduate of ’25, is coaching the latter. The game, although fairly peppy, lacked accuracy in
basket shooting and co-operative team work. The game ended with a score of 23 to 15 in Davidson’s favor. The
team leaves on a state-wide trip next Monday, entering on a stiff schedule. Duke, N. C. State, and Wake Forest
loom as the most formidable opponents.

WHEN IN STATESVILLE CALL ON US FOR YOUR BARBER SHOP WANTS
Commercial Barber Shop
Statesville, N. C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

S&W Cafeterias
CHARLOTTE
GREENVILLE
ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N.C.

A picture of Dick Grey, star of the 1926 state football champions, has been featured in many newspapers throughout the
country. Reports show that the scintillating back, punter, drop-kicker, and returner-of-punts extraordinary, has been given publicity by leading papers under
the caption “Best in the South.” All hail to the best, Dick Grey!

Miss Lucita Hardie, of Brazil, will spend the week-end as the guest of Dr. and Mrs. Lingle. Miss Hardie is
at present occupied at Red Springs, N.C.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Introducing to the readers
REV. PATRICK D. MILLER,
Holder of the Hoge Fellowship for 1926-27

Selby Ice Cream Co.
GOOD ICE CREAM
Statesville, N.C.
