THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 13, 1927

Y.M.C.A. Holds National Convention Christmas
Harry Goodykoontz Represents Davidson at Student Conference

The National Students’ Conference was held in Milwaukee, Wis., January 1st, with more than 2,000 delegates present from more than
100 colleges. Every state in the Union, as well as many foreign countries, were represented. Davidson was represented by Harry
Goodykoontz. The conference was from December 28th to January 1st.

The theme of the conference was “What Resources Has Jesus for Life in the World?” Around this theme were built
up four phases of cycles, the main questions to be considered by the conference: The Accessibility of Good, Implications of
Universal Brotherhood, Divine Possibilities in Human Nature, and The Cross. Four lectures were given on each of these subjects, after
which student discussion on the subject was held and questions answered.

The conference was addressed by some of the leading men of the day, such as Studdert Kennedy, chaplain of King
George; Bruce Curry, Reinhold Neibuhr, Charles W. Gilkey, Kirby Page, Henry Sloan Coffin, and Mordecai Johnson. Some of the highlights
of their addresses were as follows:

If we don't believe in God, we must believe in some insignificant aspect of our personality, for bovine serenity is
closed to us. The world is neither flat nor round; it is cruciform. Joy is the wine that God is
ever pouring into those that struggle and suffer with Him. Jesus believed that human nature could be changed, for He
called the vacillating Peter to be a ‘fisher of men.’

The conference, guided by these splendid leaders, voted in favor of supporting wars, but not all wars, of denying no
one any privileges on the campus because of race or color, and of working out a new standard of industrial
relationships. The conclusion reached was that if the Way of the Cross is followed faithfully and well, the great problems
of the age will be brought to a successful solution. The conference at Milwaukee was the biggest of its kind
ever held and was regarded by many as having an exceptionally fine spirit of brotherhood present. The results of this
conference in the future will be watched with interest.

CHRISTIAN AND McCONNELL (Continued from page 1)

the president of the Student body and the president of the Senior Class that he desires to appeal. The president
of the Senior Class shall then at the first opportunity call a meeting of the Senior Class. At this meeting,
the president of the Senior Class shall preside. He shall first explain the object of the meeting and the nature
of the case. The evidence produced in the trial before the Student Council shall be brought forth, being read by
a member of the Council, after which a designated member of the Council shall explain the decision which the Council
has reached, together with the reason which prompted this decision. The student who is appealing shall then be called upon
to explain his position. The matter may now be deemed open to discussion on the part of those interested in
the case. At all times during this trial, order must be preserved and careful attention given to every detail.

These amendments will be voted upon Monday or Tuesday and will lie on the table till then, according to Article
VIII, Section 1, which reads as follows: Amendments to this Constitution shall first be passed upon by the Student Council.
The desired amendment shall then be read before the Student Body, after which it shall lie on the table for
ten days, at the end of which time a vote by the Student Body shall be taken. A two-thirds majority
of all those present and entitled to vote shall be necessary for an amendment to be adopted.

CIS WASTED

Withers, editor-in-chief of Sanity Rare, has issued a call to members of the student body other than staff members of
this publication for cartoons and sketches for this humorous magazine. Due to the fact that some time is required to
have cuts made and material approved, it is necessary that some drawings be submitted before examinations. Up to the Davidsonian’s
time of publication, only a few designs have been turned in to the board of editors. Any member of the
staff will be glad to talk to prospective submitters about their work.

Senior Class Gift Committee Meets

Although the Senior Class gift committee has had several meetings, nothing definite has been decided, and several things are being
considered as gifts to the college. This committee is composed of the following members of the Senior Class: W. A.
Christin, chairman; W. C. Ogden, W. O. Green, C. C. Gordon, W. Murchison, W. H. Bordeaux, Jay Hall, J. C.
Bernhardt, G. A. Zimmerman, and L. D. Wharton. The committee expects to decide definitely on the gift in the near
future, so that it can be purchased and presented to the college before the closing of school in the spring.
It has been the custom for the past several years for each graduating class to present some gift to the
college, and some very appropriate and useful things have been given in the last few years. The gate at the
northern entrance to the campus from Main Street was presented by the class of '24. The class of '25 presented
the fountain and the cover over it, and the class of '26 presented the stone benches which are sitting spots
on the campus. These gifts are not only beneficial and useful to the college, but serve also as memorials to
the classes after they are gone.

COLLEGE FRESHMAN DIES (Continued from page 1)

son, who lives near Davidson. Donaldson was paying his way through college with the money he received from his services
in the post office. Donaldson was knownand loved by the students at large. At the Presbyterian Church of Lenoir, N.
C., on October 21, 1926, Mr. Thomas Henry Wilson, '20, was married to Miss Dell Bernhardt.

An amendment adopted in this way by the Body immediately becomes a part of the Constitution.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see

VERNON S. BROYLES
QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

This Hotel is Yours to use for all FEEDS AND BANQUETS no matter how large or how small. Regular board---reasonable---and
the best your money can buy. Music in the evenings.

MAXWELL-CHAMBERS HOTEL
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Finals of Declamation Contest Thursday Night
White, McGuire, and Neel to Compete for Medal

Three freshman representatives from the Davidson literary societies will compete Thursday night in Phi Hall for the Freshman Declaimer medal,
an annual event sponsored by the Forensic Council. The meeting of these representatives will be at a joint meeting of
the three societies, which will be thrown open to the public, both students and guests. The men who will compete
are: H.W. White, Phi, on the subject, “They Shall Not Pass”; W.B. McGuire, Eu, “Why Am I An American”; and
L. L. Neel, Phi, “All Pyramids Are Not In Egypt.” These three men were selected in preliminary contests held in
their respective societies.

For many years the Forensic Council has been promoting this activity, formerly it being the Fresh-Soph contest. This was changed
last year to include only the members of the freshman class. The meeting will be presided over by Bill Covington,
president of the Phi Society, which is the host of the meeting. It will begin promptly at 7:00 o'clock. Another
interesting item for the entertainment of the assembly is being planned.

GLEE CLUB TO GIVE CONCERTS
(Continued from page 1)

with Queens College for the Glee Club to appear there Saturday, the 12th. Definite arrangements have not been made yet,
but it is certain that the Glee Club will appear at Queens before the year is out.

“The fact is, that civilization requires slaves. The Greeks were quite right there. Unless there are slaves to do the
ugly, horrible, uninteresting work, culture and contemplation become almost impossible. Human slavery is wrong, insecure, and demoralizing. On mechanical slavery,
on the slavery of the machine, the future of the world depends.” —Oscar Wilde

You will find this monogram on all kinds of electrical machinery. To insure quality, ask for it on equipment when
you buy for factory, office, or home. A series of G-E advertisements showing what electricity is doing in many fields
will be sent on request. Ask for booklet GEK-18.

In a quarter-century the General Electric Company has produced electric motors having a total of more than 350,000,000 man-power. Electric
light, heat, and transportation have also contributed their part to the freeing of men. These are America’s slaves. Through their
service American workers do more, earn more, and produce quality goods at lower cost than anywhere else in the world.
The college-trained man is the first to grasp those facts which raise man from a mere source of physical power
to be a director of power, thus realizing the true economic value of the human mind.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.
