4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 10, 1927

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Davidson College

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

Business Manager
VERNON S. BROYLES

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. LINGLE Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHER Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON Assignment Editor
P. F. JONES Feature Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD Assistant Business Manager
A. A. McALPINE Assistant Business Manager
L. L. ALBRIGHT Subscription Manager
S. ABERNETHY Circulation Manager
R. J. LAKE Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
A. N. BROWN
C. R. LAKE
BAILEY
W. H. J. BRYDE
TYREE DILLARD
B. F. McQUEEN
J. L. ELY
W. K. PRITCHETT
J. R. GRAHAM
B. WILSON
W. R. WEAVER
R. C. GRADY
L. C. WADSWORTH
R. H. KANE
JOHN MORIARTY
J. P. MCKNIGHT

EDITORIAL

It’s funny with all the bad weather and flu and everything, how suddenly happy and smiling some of our underclassmen became when the announcement was made last Tuesday morning that spring elections would be held next week. Everybody speaking, everybody flattering everybody else, everybody so accommodating—ain’t it a shame elections can’t come but once a year.

BAD PUBLICITY

Thirty-six Harvard University students were recently hailed into the Cambridge police court to answer charges of disorderly conduct, following a midnight melee and street battle with policemen. A. Lawrence Lowell, dignified president of the University, member of the Harvard Board of Trustees, and prominent alumni of the college gathered in the overcrowded courtroom to hear the nauseating details of a rough-and-tumble set-to between police and students, which led to the arrest of the Harvard rioters.

Newspapers and magazines throughout the country have “played up” the spectacular details of the fracas and the subsequent police-court trial. Editorial writers have varying opinions as to who was to blame for the affair. Some of the editors have even been willing to excuse the Harvard students for what they believe was nothing more or less than a public demonstration of “college spirit.” The recorder who heard the case evidently felt that the rioters had yielded to “natural collegiate impulses,” and dismissed the whole affair with slight fines, for only a few of the more boisterous revelers.

The fact remains, however, that the thirty-six students have reflected considerable discredit upon themselves and their alma mater. In an age of enlightenment, it is regrettable that college men should be permitted to break the laws, disturb the peace, and prove themselves generally unruly, with no more severe punishment than a night in jail—where perhaps they are enabled to sober up a bit before facing a kindhearted judge. When men and women reach college they are no longer children—they are adults. They should be dealt with as such. American colleges cannot justify the vast expenditure of time and money necessary to educate a horde of hoodlums and lawbreakers.

The throwing of eggs and bottles, the overturning of a police patrol, and the breaking of doors and windows no doubt proved an enjoyable outlet for the buoyant spirits of the Harvard collegians, but their vandalism is neither to be overlooked nor excused. Our legal codes provide just punishments for such exhibitions of lawlessness and a law appearing on the statute books should be enforced without fear or favoritism. Laws are not made to be broken by college students, and the sooner college men understand that, the better their training for citizenship will be. It is high time judges and police officials were demanding obedience to the laws by college students as well as by the other subjects of the state and community.

COLLEGE CYNICS

“The prevailing impression, especially among the mentally immature,” says the New Republican, “is that the only means of gaining rank as one of the intelligentsia is to become a chronic knocker.” Nowhere is this assertion more axiomatic than among college students, a large number of whom spend their time and talents in a futile effort to imitate the Menckens and the Nathans. One picks up a college newspaper or a college magazine and finds it full to overflowing with the amateurish criticisms of freshmen and sophomores, who term themselves “Youthful Doubters.” What these amateur cynics overlook is that it takes quite as much mentality to comprehend and appreciate an existing institution, or to fairly appraise the worth of an individual, as it does to parrot denunciations of whatever is and theorize perfection either in institutions or persons. The time has come, too, when it is much more original to say a good word for traditions and institutions which are a part of our social, religious, and political inheritance, than it is to point out their failings.

Despite a new reaction toward conservatism, the campus Mencken sprinkles his conversation with phrases, now become bromidic, about “boobs,” “morons,” and “Babbitts.” He scorns everything and everybody in his own community, hoping to gain a reputation for superiority and originality. Our own campus is not without its proportionate share of these aspiring, but totally ineffective college critics. Lacking a wholesomeness of mind and spirit, they set in to criticize others for the same narrowness of vision and a meagerness of intellect, which they themselves possess.

Existing traditions and institutions are of no value merely because they are old, but the fact that they are old proves that they have grown up in the past and have stood the test of human experience. The world progresses only through innovation, but it was the wise Washington who warned against “entering too lightly upon innovations.” Our youthful doubters should not overlook the fact that if a thing is not worthy of respect merely because it is old, neither is it worthy of respect merely because it is new. The faults of that which exists are quite naturally more apparent, because in operation, than the faults of the untried, which if their operation might be sure to reflect those same imperfections of human nature responsible for most of the imperfections of the existing social order.

There is no excuse for intellectual inertia and mental stagnation among college men. They should always be looking for the really beautiful, really worthwhile values of life and human nature. But, they should guard against an impulsiveness which will lead them to overthrow the tried and true merely for the sake of an adventurous exploration into the realms of the untried. Criticism, of the better sort, is always valuable—chronic cynicism is never useful.

VALUE OF THE VOTE

Announcement that annual spring elections for the choice of student-body officials is to be held during the coming week should remind all students that the privilege of voting in these elections entails a responsibility which cannot be shirked. The student-government system at Davidson will never be stronger than the officers selected for its administration. Efficient leaders will always result in a mediocrity of administration.

The recent vote to select the winner of the Norris Athletic Trophy vividly demonstrated a tendency among a large number of students to ignore the importance of casting their vote in all student body polls. In an election which should have been of universal interest to all the students, less than one-half of the members of the student body voted. As a result, it will be necessary to run an entirely new election at a great cost of time and trouble.

It is to be hoped that the coming student body elections will meet with no such lack of interest. The student who fails to cast a vote is usually quickest to criticize the man who wins the election. He is never satisfied with the way things are going, he never lets an opportunity pass for criticizing the men who are in charge of student affairs—and, yet, when he is given an opportunity of exercising some choice or supervision, he inevitably shirks his responsibility.

This inertia on the part of the great mass of students is capitalized by those candidates who depend upon political bickerings to win them office. Let every student cast his vote for the candidate who most deserves the office, who will perform his duty in the most efficient and faithful manner—and when he is elected, let every man in the student body back him in whatever he attempts to do for the best interest of the college and the students.

No Such Negative Freedom
An Address By Alexander Meiklejohn

EDITOR’S NOTE—The following address will be of particular interest to students and educators in view of the recent permission granted to Dr. Meiklejohn to conduct an experimental college in liberal arts as a subordinate branch of the great University of Wisconsin. In Dr. Meiklejohn’s experimental college, a student will study Greek, Roman, and English civilization each for an entire year during his undergraduate course. The new college will be watched with a great deal of interest by educators all over the world. The Davidsonian reprints Dr. Meikeljohn’s address without changes, and does not necessarily endorse all that the author has to say.

The outstanding problem is this—it may best be stated in the form of a question—Can the average young American be liberally educated? Can it be done? And it doesn’t seem that there is very much doubt about the answer. The answer so far is that he can’t under existing conditions. That question seems to be a rather serious one for this reason: Our whole scheme of life in America is based on the presupposition thatThe young American can be educated. We have supposed that America is to be the home of educated persons, and we have devised a scheme of government and devised a scheme of life based on that presupposition, that young Americans can be liberally educated and that for this purpose the college primarily exists. I think then, really, the task which faces the American college is to answer in one form or another, all colleges are facing this question, and rather desperately. Can the college do the thing which it is expected to do? Can it give a liberal education? Merely for the purpose of getting the subject under discussion, I shall give a definition of what a liberal education is, making up another one today. One means by a liberal education the process of so informing and training and inciting the mind that it will go forward steadily on the road to understanding of the life to which it belongs; so informing, and training, and inciting a mind that you can count on it that that mind will travel, will go a certain way, will keep on going that way as long as it lives. If then we ask, is the average young American being established on the road, so that you can count on it that he will travel the road of attempted understanding as long as he lives, we shall have to admit that the American college today is not in any considerable measure succeeding in the thing it is attempting to do. As Dr. Duggan suggests, it is not true that there are going out from our institutions today in any considerable measure streams of understanding into the life of America. That is not the way in which colleges are known by our community. If you want the prize exhibit, we have our alumni. Are they on the road to understanding? Are they settled in the way of seeking intelligence? I don’t think that you can say this. But there is one thing you can count on, one that you can be pretty sure of, whatever else you may doubt about the alumnus: he does not read books. He may read other things and do other things, but he does not read books. He is not interested in that sort of life. And what is his attitude toward his college? What does he understand the college to be? I think very largely he claims to regard it as a place of sentimental loyalty, of comradeships, of friendships, and fun and pleasure. College loyalty is one of the most unintelligent things that could be imagined in connection with an institution of learning. The belief in each college of the gospel that the college is the very best in the country is a strange thing in an institution of learning. I don’t think that anyone could honestly say of an American college, if one looks at its alumni, that they are established in the way of understanding. I think rather one would say that as soon as they get out into the life beyond the college, they are caught up into something else.

But then, I think we should be fair to ourselves and ask why we are not more successful. We may say that it is because the colleges are in America. For the most part, America is a very hard country in which to teach. As Mr. Duggan suggests, America is very busy about a great many other things. It is pretty hard to teach literature in schools to children who come from homes where a good book is never seen. It is pretty hard to teach philosophy in a country with no taste for meditation in its social life. America is interested in other things. America has a social scheme which has very little recognition of what the way of understanding is. A second difficulty is that our school system is as yet not ready to give the proper preparation for college work. It has been hastily constructed and is as yet in the preliminary stages of its development. Our college teaching must be unsatisfactory until our school preparation can be better given. If then we agree that America is a hard place in which to do good teaching, we must be fair and admit that America intends to support teaching and does so with great enthusiasm. The difficulty is not one of intention, but one of understanding. America has a great belief in education; it has faith in education and wants it, but just what it is that it wants is not very clear. Our typical expression is “Culture or bust.” Here it is “understanding or bust,” and I think that we ought to look at both sides of this situation. America is determined to have education and is willing to pay for it. The money that is poured into the institutions of learning is almost scandalous. One of the greatest difficulties in teaching and administration is that so much of the teachers’ and administrators’ time must be given to deciding what to do with the money we get. If we did not have so much money, we would do better teaching. American people are not withholding money. There is enough money and enough enthusiasm. Yet, the whole situation is rather unfavorable because American people have not yet reached the point of sophistication, nor reached the point of social stress and strain which demands intelligence. It is at present easy to get on, but some day our life is going to get serious, we are going to grow up, and then better college teaching will be done.

If this is our external situation, what from the college point of view can be done about it? There is only one thing that is essential in making a college, and that is the teacher. The great difficulty, which is now present in the American college, and I say this as a teacher, is that of getting proper teachers. America is too busy with other things to allow any considerable part of our talent to go into teaching. It is very hard in this civilization to draw into the teaching profession the talent and the power which is needed for that profession. We must find some way of building up the quality of the teacher in the American college today, and the only radical way of improving it is that of securing better teaching material. There is another difficulty with our teaching too, namely, that our teachers have been trained under a bad system. We are not only bad stuff, but we have bad training. We have been trained under a system which does not give knowledge or understanding; we have been trained under a scheme of education during these last 25 or 35 or 40 years, a scheme of specialized study, from which a large understanding has been slipping away. To put it frankly and flatly, one of the greatest troubles with our teaching is that we are trying to get liberal understanding through the teaching of men who themselves in a very large measure have not been trained in the way of liberal understanding. We have been trained in specialties, in this or that line of work, but our general training has not been one of liberal understanding, it has been one of technical scholarship and one of pursuit of technical subjects. Until this has been overcome, we will not have liberal understanding or liberal teaching.

No Negative Freedom

If I may turn from teaching and go to the side of the student. Presupposing that America were a country which admitted of liberal training, which at present I do not admit, and suppose our teachers were ready and equipped for the giving of a liberal training, which only in a measure do I admit, then the question comes as to what you are to do with the student, in order to give him a liberal training and get him established in the way of liberal studies. From that point of view, it seems to me that the situation can be summed up in one sentence. We must find some way to put him into a community of learning, a community that does not admit other forms of unity as a plan of organization, a community which has learning at its heart, learning at its center, a community that is unified by learning, a community that does not admit other forms of unity as a plan of organization. I am reminded of what Woodrow Wilson tried to do at Princeton. Woodrow Wilson said, these boys are bound together in all their social relationships, but have no intellectual ties. From this point of view I want to attack a notion which is very often advanced by students. Students so often say that what they would like to have in a college is freedom, to be themselves, to do as they choose, each to go his own way, freedom from interests, from requirements, individual freedom. I am as much committed to freedom as anyone, and yet I am quite sure that no college or other institution can be organized on the basis of freedom in this negative sense. There are very definite limitations under which freedom can be given to the membership of a social group. It is possible only where the freedom which each man takes is of such character that it contributes to the freedom of every other member of the community. Freedom is possible in a community only when all the members of the community are so disposed in mind and so equipped in intelligence that the action they will take when free shall be such, not only that it will not interfere with another, but will contribute to the freedom of every other; when every member has the same purpose in his mind. Separate freedom is possible in a group of people only when that group of people has something which dominates every member of the group, when the membership of the community and every member of the community has a sameness of obligation, only when the whole thing is dominated, controlled, obligated, ruled by some central purpose; and that is true of a college as well as (Continued on page 6).