THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1927

News and Views of Wildcat Events
By Raymond Lake

We may be down, but we're never out. That old proverb has always fitted the Wildcats, and this year is no exception to the rule. Most of the sport writers and most football fans who are not directly connected with Davidson have in all probability placed the Wildcats in the cellar for the 1927 season and forgotten them. The Wildcats still have a chance, however, and until there is absolutely no chance to make a comeback, they will be fighting and making somebody else realize that they’re not out of it. The Blue Devils have a mighty good team this year, but when they meet the Wildcats next week, they’re going to meet another good team, a team that will be in better shape, will be fighting harder and will be functioning more efficiently than it has for several weeks. In other words, the game next Thursday is going to be a mighty good one, and some of the dopesters who predict that Duke will win by several touchdowns may be in for quite a surprise and upset. Several of the Wildcats will be playing their last game for Davidson, and our prediction is that they will do some playing that has seldom been equaled. Watch out for Dick Grey next Thursday!

What has been the cause of the Wildcats losing so many games in the last few weeks and by such a large score? It certainly is not the fault of the coaches. Where then is the cause of the trouble? In our opinion, the main trouble is in the student body. The members of the student body have not had near as much pep this year as they had last year. It is true that we haven’t as good a team this year as we had last year, but if the student body had backed the team as well this year as they did last year, we would have won more games. It has long been a known fact that a Davidson team with its student body behind it could often beat a better team without as much spirit. The team this year, though as has been said, not so good as last year’s team, has done its part, and the lack has been on the part of the student body rather than on the part of the team. Every team must have a slump sometimes, and possibly every student body must. Well, the Wildcats have had their slump and it’s time they’re coming back. On the other hand, the Blue Devils have been winning almost continuously this year, and it’s about time for somebody to bring them down again. Watch that game next Thursday. The Wildcats may lose, but if they do, it will not be by a very large score and their opponents will be mighty glad when it’s over.

The score of last week's game would tend to make things look worse than they really were for the Wildcats. The Tar Heels won 27 to 0, but they didn’t have any easy job. The Wildcats fought hard and on two occasions took the ball to within one foot of the Tar Heel goal and then were not able to put it over. The main trouble seemed to be the inability to break up the passing attack of the Carolina team. Most of the gains made by Carolina were made on passes. The Wildcats tried more passes than the Tar Heels did, but were not able to complete them. Again we say, watch those Wildcats next week. They made a good many mistakes in last week’s game, but they will be corrected before next Thursday, and the Blue Devils had better watch out.

The Freshmen also lost their game last week. They fought hard and did their best, but were not able to overcome the strong State Freshman eleven. The Wildkittens have not shown up so well this year, but several members of the team have done good work and deserve much credit. After the game between the Wildkittens and the Blue Imps, the reporter who covered the game stated in his comment on the game that, although the Wildkittens were defeated, nevertheless, three members of their backfield, Goodykoontz, Pope, and McCall, gave some of the best exhibitions of good football that any freshman players had ever shown on that field. These three men, together with several more, have shown unusually good form this year and will no doubt make a name for themselves in football circles before their four years here are gone.

-:- Sport Talk -:-

Sophs Defeat Freshmen For Class Championship
Five Straight Victories Give Sophs Undisputed Title

As a brilliant climax to a successful season of inter-class basketball, came the Sophomores’ hard-fought but decisive defeat of the Freshmen, 48-43, for the honor of class champions. Five successive wins for the Sophs against no losses, cinched the championship for their class before the season actually closed.

For the first quarter, both goals were well guarded and very few points were scored. Each team played carefully, and hard, very few substitutions being made. The end of the first quarter, the Sophs had a small margin lead. The Freshmen came back strong in the first part of the second to run up a lead of eight points. The scores see-sawed back and forth during the half, the Sophs finally coming out on top.

McAllister, of the Freshmen, opened up strong in the last half, scoring once for the Sophs. Before his startled opponents could cover, McAllister more than made up for his mistake by scoring for the Fresh, one, two, three. Throughout the whole game, it was a fight for points, Pritchett leading the Sophs, and Rusk, McAllister, and Shephard doing good work on the other side. A final, well-organized spurt in the last of the game gave the Sophs the game, and the championship. Gardner, Johnson, Baker, and Mauze did the defensive work for the Sophomores. Johnston also was death on shots from around the fifteen-foot line. The regular combination of Pritchett and Moore, though late in starting, was hard for the Fresh to stop.

Runners-up to the Sophomores for inter-class honors, were the Freshmen, coached by Ben Wilson. The Freshmen lost by only two games, both to the Sophs, and were in the race to the last. The Juniors and Seniors were not so fortunate in their games because of lack of men. Pat Crawford was the mainstay of the Juniors, and Kugler and Ohseik for the Seniors. McAulie, coach of the Sophomores, had a mass of material to choose from and was able to run in fresh players with great success. The squad of the winning Sophs, with the respective positions of the men, is as follows:

Forwards—Pritchett (C), Moore, McGavock, Miller, Orr, Anderson.
Centers—Johnson, Gardner, Halverstadt.
Guards—Baker, Mauze, Smith, Heefner.

Georgia and State Remain Undefeated

Since the game of the 12th there are only two teams in the Southern Conference which have neither defeats nor ties against them. The lucky ones are Georgia, who won her fifth Conference game when she beat Clemson 32 to 0, and N. C. State, who played a non-Conference game Friday. Vanderbilt caused Tennessee's fall from grace with a 7 to 7 tie. Virginia’s Cavaliers, who seem to have taken a new lease on life, beat Maryland 21 to 0. Kentucky decisively whipped V. M. I. to the tune of 35 to 0. Florida defeated the Crimson Tide of Alabama 13 to 6 for the first time since ’22.

Standing of Southern Conference teams is as follows:

Team                Wn.  Lst.  Td.  Lst. Wk’s Opnt.
Georgia             5    0     0    Ga. Tech.
N. C. State         3    0     0    Vandy
Tennessee           4    0     1    Tenn.
Vanderbilt          2    0     2    Md.
Virginia            4    3     0    Alabama
Florida             3    5     2    Florida
Alabama             3    3     0    Va.
Maryland            2    2     0    V. M. I.
W. & L.             2    5     0    W. & L.

State College Freshmen Conquer Wildkittens by Margin of Seven Points to Hold Lead

PASSING FEATURED

Davidson Fresh Stage Comeback in Last Quarter, But Lose Ball Before Scoring

An exhibition of passing was shown by the Wildkittens last Friday when they bowed before the N. C. State Freshmen team, which can be well described as sensational. The passing combination of Estridge to Fraley, for Davidson, was the distinct feature of the game. Although the North Carolina Freshmen took the measure of the Davidson Frosh 19 to 12, the game was a good one, exciting and well played.

The Wildkittens scored first after a recovered fumble, then Fraley passed to McCall for 30 yards and a touchdown. State immediately came back, Kerr tossing a 20-yard pass to Furtago, who raced 35 yards for a touchdown, Edmundson kicking the extra point. In the second period State again tallied, recovered a fumble on Davidson’s 32-yard line, and after a long march Wright plunged over the line for a touchdown. Again in the third period State made a sensational march of 57 yards, McLawhorn scoring. The Wildkittens came back fighting in the last quarter and swept the State Freshmen off their feet with an aerial attack. The Kittens marched to State’s yard line, completing three passes for 43 yards, but lost the ball when they passed over the goal line.The ball a few moments later, another series of passes started, netting 45 yards; Farrell plunged over for a touchdown. The total march was for 60 yards. Davidson completed a total of nine out of eleven passes for 118 yards, but State led in first downs, thirteen to seven.

Wildcats Train Hard as Blue Devil Game Nears
Annual Turkey Day Game Promises Many Thrills

One more station and the old Wildcat train will have finished this year’s tour. But my—what a stop this last one is going to be! Of course, everybody knows that Mr. Jimmie Dehart and Company, from Duke University, will vie with the ’Cats for Turkey Day honors, and everybody realizes that this scrap will determine whether or not the ’Cats will occupy the Big Five cellar this year. In spite of the recent reverses, decisive as they may have seemed, the Red and Black is far from the end of her rope, and Monk will give the Blue Devils a fight that will long be remembered. Davidson will be doped to lose by several touchdowns, for her team appeared woefully weak against the other Big Fives, while Duke has shown a wonderful drive, great aggressiveness, and splendid teamwork throughout the season. But fellows, don’t forget this—Davidson is most dangerous when she appears least powerful, and for years, fans have thrilled again and again as admittedly weaker Wildcat teams have swept over the favorites, maybe to a victory, maybe to a tie, but always fighting. Watch out, you dopesters. Strange things happen in this old world, and the dope bucket is likely to go sky high when the Wildcat claws the Blue Devil.

This fall has seen Duke University come into the limelight with one of the Southland’s strongest elevens. Dehart had the material shoved at him, and he has made the most of it. A heavy, fast, hard-charging set of forwards, all experienced men, and a number of smart backs have given the sons of Duke something to shout about. This superman (according to the sportswriters) Jankoskie, with his bullet-like plunges, is a holy terror to opposing lines. Sam Buie has suddenly blossomed forth as a passer par excellence, while Adams, Hatcher, Bolich, and others are backfield men of a high calibre. Warren, Kistler, Jones, Brummit, Thorne, are line stars. Dehart’s charges have played strong teams and the games they have lost were by slim scores. State’s wonderful passing game, engineered by McDowall, was the only thing that saved the Techmen against Duke, and many fans still believe that the Devils have a better club than State. We'll have to hand it to our coming opponents—they have some team.

Now as to the Wildcats. It is probable that by Thanksgiving Day, McColgan, Melton, Wilson, and the other cripples will be in fairly good shape, enough so to play. Dick Grey is due to play a bang-up game, especially because on that day he will play in a Wildcat uniform for the last time. That sterling flankman, Hugh Arrowood; Jim Grey, a fighting ’Cat if there ever was one, and “Fats” Laws, all-around linesman, are outstanding forwards who will close their gridiron careers Thanksgiving Day. Charlie Harrison and “Mutt” Nesbit, two of Younger’s best threats, will ring down their curtain, as will “Piggy” Wearn, scrappy little end. Because most of these boys are playing their last game, we look for them to put out as they never have in the past. Davidson is always a scoring threat and Thanksgiving will be no exception. If the coaches can provide a defense against the passes that have spelled defeat in every one of the recent games, Davidson will stand a fine chance. If the Red and Black line can hold Jankoskie, the battle will be half won. If—well, whatever the outcome, look for eleven scrapping, clawing Wildcats, fighting to the last ditch, and don’t place too much faith in the newspaper dope. It will be a great battle Thanksgiving.

Wildkittens Position State Fresh
Gore (C) RE: Tucker
Pipkins RT: Manushak
McNeill RG: Stout
Mason C: Auburn
Miss. A.&M. 2 2 0
Ga. Tech. L: S.U. 2 2 1
Furman 2 3 0
Tulane Sewanee 1 3
V. M. I. Kentucky 1 4
Ky. VeeMe Tce. 1 4
Sewanee Tulane 1 5
Davidson N. C. 1 5
Miss. A.&M. Auburn 0 5
*Non-Conference teams.

BIG FIVE SCORERS
Janoski, Duke 15 0 93
Warren, State 42
Adams, Duke 36
Goodwin, State 36
Grey, Davidson 36
McDowall, State 26
Cox, W. Forest 25
Childress, State 18
Buie, Duke 18
Adams, State 14
Flynn, Davidson 12
Nisbet, Davidson 12
Young, Carolina
*Capp, Carolina
James, W. Forest
James, W. Forest
Outen, State
Wearn, Davidson
Harrison, Davidson
Ward, Carolina
Farrell, Carolina
Lake, Duke
Lepo, State
Crum, State
Hunsucker, State
Hillingsworth, Duke
Hackney, W. Forest
Foard, Carolina
Lassiter, Carolina
Jackson, Carolina
Connelly, W. Forest
Jordan, State
Kelly, Duke
*McConnell, Davidson
Whisnant, Carolina
Gresham, Carolina
*Scored safety.

Score by periods:
State Fresh 7 6 6 0—19
Davidson Fresh 6 0 0 6—12

Officials: Brice (Auburn), referee; Millan (Davidson), head linesman; Carson (Davidson), umpire. Substitutions—State: Clark, Bethea, Stone, Combs, Sykes, Tucker, Atkinson, Herbst, Hargrove, Rutter. Davidson: Estridge, Gilliam. First downs—State Fresh 13, Davidson Fresh 7. Penalties—State Fresh: 40 yards; Davidson Fresh, 50 yards.

OPPONENTS’ SCORES
N. C. State 20
Duke 18
Florida 13
Alabama 6
Kentucky 7
Wofford 6
Citadel 6
Quantico Marines 36
W. Forest 10

Wrestling Practice Will Start Monday

Jeff Garrison, captain of the Wildcat wrestling team, has announced that wrestling practice for the coming season will begin next Monday. There remain from last year’s team only three men. These men will form the nucleus around which Captain Garrison will build his team. The matmen have a hard schedule before them this year. Their first encounter will be with the team from the University of North Carolina and will be held at Davidson on the 4th of February. After this meet, the Wildcats journey to Lexington, Va., and take on the wrestlers from V. M. I. on the 11th of February. They will remain in Lexington to wrestle Washington and Lee on the 13th. An encounter with the Concord “Y” is pending, and if this meet is arranged, it will be held here on the 18th of February. The grapplers will then go to Durham, where they will meet Duke on the 25th. From there they go to Raleigh and take on N. C. State on the 27th. A great deal of new equipment will be added to that which is on hand at the present time. Among the new equipment is a rub- beroid cover for the mat. This cover will be used only during the meets. The team will use a canvas cover while practicing.

STATE BEATS DUKE (Continued from page one)

point in the struggle with Duke, who presented by far the toughest and closest fight of the season. And with two more teams from out of the state to be met, the Wolfpack has a chance to add more gridiron laurels to those they have already won. With the first place definitely settled, important results hinge on the coming game between Carolina and Duke. If Carolina wins, they take second place, and if Duke triumphs, Carolina goes down to fourth. Wake Forest seems to be therefore definitely placed as the third member of the list, and, unless Davidson upsets all the dope and wins over Duke Thanksgiving, the Wildcats will go to the bottom. State and Duke succeeded in presenting the most outstanding individual stars for the season—Duke with Janoski and State with McDowall, who is presented as a candidate for the All-Southern.

TOM AND MIN (Continued from page one)

Ellet, proved to be a splendid “butcher” of peanuts, sandwiches, and cold drinks. In fact, the whole crew was “ready.” Although their favorites failed to down the Tar Heels, it was far from a gloomy gang that piled into the cars for the return trip, and the dopesters immediately began to make plans to whip Duke on Turkey Day. Dominoes were soon produced, some harmonious souls struck up favorite melodies, and as the saying goes, “everybody killed a big one.” The old ship of Zion pulled into port at eleven fifty-nine plus, and most of its crew managed to reach their rooms in safety.

C. C. W. GLEE CLUB (Continued from page one)

which literally took the students by storm. The class of ’29 hopes to bring several other Glee and Choral Clubs to Davidson this year, among the number being those of Queens and Converse.

COLLEGIATE PRESS

general manager, since he was the originator of the idea. At present no definite action has been taken here at Davidson, but at an early meeting of the staff the correspondent is to be appointed, which will mark the entrance of Davidson into the Collegiate Press.

We congratulate State College on her winning the state title for 1927. State backed the Wildcats last year after their chances for the title were gone, and we are glad to see them get the title this year. They have an unusually good team this year and deserve the 1927 title.