THE DAVIDSONIAN

A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 3, 1927 No. 17

Big High School Track Carnival to be Held at Davidson During March

March 19th Set as Date For Inter-School Meet

THIRD ANNUAL MEET

Invitations Are Sent Out to Leading Secondary Schools—Competition Will Be Keen

March 19th has been set by Coach Tex Tilson as the time for the high school track carnival, which is staged annually at Davidson, at which time the high schools of the state are given an invitation to participate, a cup being awarded to the winner. No announcement has yet been made as to who will donate the trophy this year. The idea of the carnival was instituted at Davidson in the spring of 1925, and the two that have already been staged were a success. Interest in this affair is gradually growing, as seen by the number of high schools which sent representatives last year. The object is to develop a spirit of friendly rivalry between the track squads of the state high schools, and prepare them for the state meet at Chapel Hill each year. Competition is keen between several of the high schools, and the participation of the Davidson freshman track squad lends interest to the affair. The Wildkittens are ineligible to win the cup, this always going to a high school. Charlotte, which has had a crack outfit for the past two years, was outpointed by the Davidson freshmen in the last meet. Special effort is going to be made this year by local officials to get a number of high schools who heretofore have not taken part, to send men. Even if a school can not send but a few men, they will be urged to have them on hand, to make the affair more closely contested.

THE CHAMELEON

The March issue of The Chameleon will go to press within a few weeks. This will be the third issue of the magazine this year. H. M. Austin, editor-in-chief, requests that all material for this issue be in his hands before the 18th of this month. Poems, short stories and humorous articles will be acceptable. These should be placed in the hands of the proper sub-editors to be reviewed. A complete list of these departmental editors may be found in former issues of the magazine this year.

Forester Wheeler Speaks at Chapel

Last Monday morning Mr. Wheeler, State Forester of North Carolina, gave a very interesting lecture to the student body on the general subject of forestry. Mr. Wheeler has been in the forestry service for about 17 years, and during that time has acquired an unusual knowledge and love for the forests. The main thought brought out in the lecture was the preservation of our fast diminishing forests, and the reasons for so much waste by fire and other destroyers. To make his talk more interesting, Mr. Wheeler illustrated the various points brought out, by means of picture slides. Mr. Wheeler condemned very pointedly the careless campers who neglect to put out their campfires, the hunter who kills many times more game than he can use, the fisherman who dynamites fish, and all those who carelessly waste the great forests of the country. He told several instances of how a lighted cigarette or a burning match, carelessly thrown aside, had started fires, which, before they could be stopped, had burned over, and made bare and waste, large areas of forest land.

The Vocational Guidance Institute to Give Lectures to Undecided Men

The College Y. M. C. A., under the direction of Secretary Jim Appleby, has made plans this spring for possibly its greatest piece of work yet undertaken, and one which will undoubtedly be of wonderful benefit and acceptability to the students. This plan calls for a Vocational Guidance Institute, something which has never been tried in the South to any appreciable extent. This institute, sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. but conducted by leading professional men of the State and South, will begin the second week of February and will continue, as is planned at present, for five or six successive weeks. The Y. M. C. A. realizes the fact that every year many men are going out from Davidson without having any preferred vocation in view, and to help decrease, by means of life-work conferences and studies, the percentage of such men causing such a condition, the Y. M. C. A. will initiate this Vocational Guidance Institute. It is somewhat striking and astonishing just what percent of college graduates enter into the world with no definite life work to undertake. Davidson’s graduates and students are no exception to this percent of “undecided.” So to the men here in college, as yet undecided, the Vocational Guidance Institute will be of especial interest and help. It is quite impossible to devote time and talent to every single profession and career chosen by students, and so only those vocations for which the great majority of Davidson students are interested in and are preparing for will be placed in the curriculum of this institute. Every Wednesday night for five or six successive weeks some noted man in some particular vocation will be here to present a vocation in a very informal way. The students will hear first-hand knowledge of some particular vocation at each time. Nothing inspirational will be presented, only the real truth and facts of each vocation. Facts and statistics relative to graduate work, problems met in that vocation, its opportunities, its development, its merits and faults—all will be given. In other words, an absolutely fair and just insight into a vocation given in a practical way by one who knows will be the offering for Davidson students. In addition, during the week which is turned over to a certain vocational study, the Y. M. C. A. will have in its room exhibits of all kinds of books and catalogues as to choosing one’s life work, and especially relative to that one vocation before the students each week. To these lectures all students will be invited, but particularly those who have chosen as their life work the vocation under discussion, and those students as yet undecided. These lectures are only for students, and it is hoped by the Y. M. C. A. that they will be well attended and much benefit gained, thus proving the institute a success. Medicine will be the first vocation in the curriculum. Dr. James M. Northington, of Charlotte, who is editor of the “Southern Medical and Surgical Journal,” will present his profession to the students. Dr. Northington is of great prominence in the medical fraternity, and because of his position and experience, and, incidentally, his interest in and nearness to Davidson boys, the Y. M. C. A. Board could certainly have chosen no more capable man. He will give the whole course of a medical life and its requirements, touching upon the required four years’ post-graduate work and the two years’ intern duty, and then proceeding deeper into the possibilities and scope of its practice. The second week will be devoted to teaching as a profession. Dr. M. C. S. Noble, Jr., last year Professor of Education and (Continued on page 5)

The Glee Club to Make Final Appearance Here in Shearer Monday Eve

Sole Performance Will Be Given Next Monday Night

ADMISSION 50 CENTS

Northern Trip Is Cancelled Because of Date Conflict—Possible South Carolina Tour

On Monday night, the 7th of February, at eight o'clock, the first performance of the Davidson College Glee Club, on the hill, will be given in Shearer Hall. Although the Club aided the Y. M. C. A. in the Christmas Vesper services in December, no regular performance has been given up to this time. Formerly a program has been given during the fall but this was omitted this year, owing to conflicting activities. The student body has had only a taste of the musical talent of its songsters through the performance of its soloists and quartet at various times. At this first performance they will have the opportunity of viewing them en masse. The admission charge has been set at fifty cents and reserved seats will be on sale during the latter part of the week at the Drug Store. This price will apply to Grammar and High School students and to the village people. Vocal and instrumental music will be featured.

Southern Bell to Make Offer to Seniors Soon

Mr. Kendall Weisiger, Employment Agent, Will Come to Davidson to Interview Seniors

The Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, operating in nine southeastern states with headquarters in Atlanta, will offer permanent employment in the telephone business to Davidson seniors again this year, according to an announcement from the company’s bureau of employment and training. Mr. Kendall Weisiger, head ofthe telephone company’s bureau of employment and training, will arrive in Davidson on Thursday afternoon, February 3rd, and will speak to the interested members of the Senior class, outlining for them the opportunities offered by his company. Announcement of the exact time and place of this interview will be made at an early date. Five members of last year’s Senior class, O. L. Brenner, H. Y. Alexander, H. L. Vance, N. R. McLeod, and L. B. Huie, entered the training school operated for college and university graduates by the telephone company last summer, and upon completion of their preliminary training were given assignments in the various fields in which the company operates. Mr. Weisiger’s visit this year is of greater than ordinary significance since he brings with him Col. R. T. Rees, of New York City, who is director of employment and training for the entire Bell Telephone system, insofar as college students are concerned. Colonel Rees was until recently connected with the general staff of the U. S. Army, and during the war he was responsible for all relations between the War Department and the colleges of the nation. He is now a member of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education, and is a member of the committee which has direction of the three-year survey, now being made in this country and abroad with a view to improving engineering education in America. Members of the Senior class, interested in Southern Bell Telephone Company should arrange with Mr. F. L. Jackson for an interview with Mr. Weisiger and Colonel Rees during their visit in Davidson.

DR. ELLIS COMING
W. T. Ellis, of Swarthmore, Penn., prominent lecturer and archeologist, will be at Davidson the latter part of February. Dr. Ellis has traveled extensively and claims to be the only man who has visited all the Bible lands. He has spent a year visiting Bible lands from Ur of the Chaldees to Rome, and from Greece to Egypt. He will conduct services at the church on the 20th and will give an illustrated lecture on archeology Monday evening. Dr. Ellis gave the commencement address here several years ago and received the degree of Doctor of Laws from Davidson.

Soph Class Plans Eventful Banquet
The Sophomore class will probably hold its banquet here this year on the 21st of February, the first of the gala occasions held by each class after its entrance here. At a meeting of the class last week, Bob Kell, as president of the class, appointed a committee to make plans for the banquet. On this committee are: Mac King, chairman; Bob Grady, R. Jack Causey, and Dick Flynn. In the near future, this committee will submit plans to the class for its approval. The banquet will probably be held in the Chamber of Commerce in Charlotte. This is the first of the three major events held by each class, the other two being Junior Speaking and Commencement, in the Junior and Senior years, respectively. The toastmaster has not been named as yet, but will probably be elected sometime this week. A complete program for the event will be worked out at once, and the sub-committees appointed to assist in its execution.

During the past two Sundays, the Y. M. C. A. was especially fortunate in securing speakers to address the students. On January 23rd, Prof. J. C. Bailey, of the Davidson faculty, addressed the students for the first time since he has been on the college faculty; while on January 30th, Dr. John M. Vander Meulen, now of Louisville Seminary, and previously pastor of some of the largest churches in the country, was the speaker. Professor Bailey chose as his text Prov. 4:18, “The path of the just is as the shining light that shineth more and more unto the perfect day.” At the opening of his speech, he illustrated his text by giving an example of a citizen enlisting in the army. “Technically and legally he is a soldier. Yet he is not what we consider as a soldier just as a man that draws a football uniform is not a football player. However, what is the difference between the recruit and the soldier? The soldier has lived the life of the army and has developed the spirit and attitude of the soldier. He is not developed overnight by signing papers. He is the outgrowth of living a certain kind of life.” The speaker then made the Christian life analogous to this illustration. He pointed out that an enlisted man and a man that has just joined the church are both raw material, and both are different from the trained men. The old regular has certain attributes that tell you his mode of life. He has the spirit of obedience and patriotism and will do what he is instructed to at the proper time. These Christian characteristics are the result of a long training in the life of the Christian. Suppose the man after he had enlisted tried to return to his former mode of living? He would possess none of the Christian’s marks. In the conclusion of his speech, Professor Bailey summarized the attributes that are acquired by living the trained life. Such people are not narrow-minded and they have a high type of mind. The growth and process in which we can be imaged after the Master. “Stand up and speak out in God's name.”

Dr. Vander Meulen chose as his subject, “The Christian Race.” His text was taken from the 12th chapter of Hebrews. Paul, having acquired a great interest in the Greek races, speaks of the Christian “laying aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, let us run with patience the race that is set before us.” The speaker pointed out that Paul speaks of three things in connection with the race: the runner, the spectators, and the arbitrator. A runner never runs with a load on him, so similarly the Christian must lay aside some of his activities. They must lay aside their social and economic functions. Moreover, each man has a besetting sin that he must get rid of. It may be lust, pride, cheating, or anything. We must stop it and hurl it out before men and God, and thus get rid of it. The runner must have patience. The Greek race was so long that frequently men died. We must run with patience if we are to be true runners. It is easy to give up. The second class of people that was referred to by Dr. Vander Meulen was the spectators. No contest would be held without them. A wonderful illustration of this point was given when the speaker told of a baseball pitcher pitching for his dead father. Our parents are thinking about us and are closely watching us. The third class is the arbitrator, Jesus Christ. He is the one that the runner obeys. Will we obey His will, or will we do as we please? He who makes Christ's will his can say I have finished my course; I have obeyed.

Wildcat Team Defeated in Listless Encounter With Hurricane Cagers
Substitutes Run Rampant During Last Minutes
ANDERSON SCORES HIGH
Game is Featured by Close Guarding and Long Shots

Furman University won from Davidson in an erratically played but exciting game Saturday night. When the dust and smoke of battle had cleared away and the tumult and the shouting had died, the score stood 39 to 24, with the Wildcats on the wrong end of the score. Each team displayed good form at times, but neither could score consistently except for short periods. There were moments of intense interest, especially during the early part of the second half, but there were also times when the game was slow. Funderburke and Wood, Furman substitutes, were chiefly responsible for the Wildcats’ downfall, scoring 27 of the visitors’ 39 points. Wood, as high scorer, accounted for 16 points, and Funderburke made eight field goals for 11 points. Captain Anderson starred for Davidson, leading his team with eight points, while Harrison scored six and McAuley five. None of the Wildcats showed the form developed in other games. Furman took an early lead of 8 to 2 before Davidson got under way. The home team, once started, advanced until they led by two points, after which the score see-sawed back and forth, being twice tied before the end of the first half. When the whistle blew for the half, the visitors led 14-13. The Wildcats lived up to their name in the beginning of the second half, opening up a lead and playing aggressively.