4 | THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. LINGLE Managing Editor
ROYCE MARTIN Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WEATHERS Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB Associate Editor
H. U. SHELBY Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON Assignment Editor
P. F. JONES Feature Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
F. L. DOUGLASS Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE Assistant Business Manager
A. A. McALPINE Subscription Manager
V. L. ALBRIGHT Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
T. T. JONES President
A. N. BROWN Vice-President
C. R. LAKE Secretary-Treasurer
W. W. BAILEY
J. P. McBRYDE
TYREE DILLARD
R. F. McQUEEN
K. PRITCHETT
WADSWORTH
L. C. KANE
JOHN MORIARTY
J. P. McKNIGHT

EDITORIALS

An American, who has ever tried to convince a Chinaman that there was an error in his laundry ticket, can
easily understand the futility of trying to induce 40 million Chinese to stop a civil war.

George Washington never told a lie, but then he never had a radio and he never played golf.

Ten Johns Hopkins students paid fines of $23.50 several days ago for participating in a freshman-sophomore riot which caused appeals
for aid from the state militia. Nine of the fined students spent the night in jail, and one of them
was so badly injured that he had to plead guilty from his cot in the city hospital.

The failure of Peaches Browning to secure alimony from her multi-millionaire ex-husband convinces us that Will Rogers was right when
he said that this is certainly a bad year for fruit.

Flappers are no rivals for the old-fashioned girls when it comes to scholarship on the Queens College campus, declares a
recent news item in the Charlotte Observer.

Boyce Martin, newly elected editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian, will, in all probability, assume active charge of the publication next week.
His election was a tribute to faithful services and superior ability. That the paper will reach new heights under his
supervision is the firm belief of all who have been associated with Boyce during his three years’ apprenticeship as a
member of the staff. All hail the new chieftain!

If college men really were like some of the so-called “collegians” now in the movies—thirty-year-olds in wide pants and coon-skin
coats, with a passion for racing cars and all-night parties—college days indeed would be happy days. And think of those
glorious dips in sunken pools and then the four-course breakfasts served in true hotel style that we see now and
then in some flashing, sparkling college picture. If folks who never went to college got their ideas of college life
from a few far-fetched college pictures their views would be subject to considerable correction. College men are he-men; wide pants
are on the decline, and breakfasts consist of grapefruit, toast, and coffee, bolted down in order that the student will
not be tardy to morning prayers or an 8:00 o'clock class. We're tired of those absurd delineations of college life
by actors and actresses who have never been inside a college campus except to witness a football game. That’s why
we'd like to see some real honest-to-goodness college men in the movies.

NEEDED UNIFORMITY

A committee of the North-Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools has announced its advocacy of the simplification and standardization
of college entrance requirements in the mid-west. The revision of college requirements among the mid-western colleges has been proposed in
the interest of the puzzled high school graduate, who finds himself bewildered by a patchwork-quilt variety of college admission demands.
In a comprehensive report, that committee points out that the colleges of the mid-west possess no uniformity of entrance requirements,
and that as a result of this there can be no appreciable connection between a student's high school and college
courses. In 15 engineering schools in the neighborhood of Chicago, there are today 15 individual varieties of admission demands, while
the entrance requirements of the several colleges of fine arts, business administration, and agriculture are equally whimsical, according to statistics
gathered by the committee. The same condition prevails in other sections of our country.

It is readily apparent that as long as college courses are shaped with no regard to the student’s high school
training, the barrier between colleges and high schools must remain. Colleges are being advised to take stock of their idiosyncrasies
and to restate their entrance requirements in simple form, insisting on special credits only when necessary for a particular branch
of college work. There is no desire among the educators of the mid-west to make college entrance requirements easier. The
only hope of stemming the tide of students flooding the colleges of America today is to make entrance requirements such
that only the efficient student will be enabled to gain access to the classroom. The startling increase in freshman failures
within the past few years is indicative of a lack of aggressiveness on the part of some college administrators in
the selection of their students.

However, a standardization of entrance requirements does not necessarily mean that admission demands are to be made less difficult. Such
a standardization as proposed for the mid-west will only lead to uniformity of entrance tests among the colleges and to
a resultant standardization and coordination of high school courses to meet the uniform college requirements. The result will be that
students entering colleges and universities in the future will be prepared to successfully carry their college work, irrespective of the
high school from whence they come. There will be no necessity for retarding classroom progress due to the lack of
proper high school preparation by some of the students.

THE FOUR-SQUARE MAN

A thorough survey of the fraternity journals, in an endeavor to find what type of freshman is being most widely
sought for by the various organizations, reveals the fact that the football star, the moneyed youth, the handsome chap, the
“most popular in high school” type, and all the traditional favorites are no longer in the ascendancy. The new favorite
who is taking the place of the old is The Man who will stay Four Years. —Garnet and White, of
Alpha Chi Rho.

THE TEST IS THE THING

We confess to a thrill when we read the paragraph to which we have given prominence above. It looks like
something new on the horizon, and in the clash of standards which is going on today we need something new,
something to reconcile the old and the new, something to introduce restraint into American ideals of what is worthwhile. There
is a slogan which has been on our desk for some months, waiting to be rung into service. It seems
pertinent here: “A winner never quits, and a quitter never wins.” If the slogan be true, there is sound philosophy
in the paragraph above also, and there is something new in the air to which our optimism may respond.

The trouble with the college, and again we say, for the life of us we cannot locate any trouble with
the colleges that is not simultaneously giving growing pains to us all, the trouble with us all is this very
same clash of standards, old and new; or, more technically, this congestion at the moral cross-roads, where youth and age
so often meet and clash. The elders too long have been framing up things in general on the suave assumption
that “nothing succeeds like success,” defining success in materialistic terms of economic significance chiefly, meaning that sort of success which
is circumstanced so largely by things utterly beyond our control, and so generally without significance to those who deserve it
most. To the observing multitude, success has become largely a trick at which anyone may play. But this “keeping up
with the Joneses” is no comedy. It is very grim sport. To many, it has become both philosophy and religion,
this keeping up a modern front unmindful of the hungry specters that still are sneaking in the rear.

New times, new standards, new slogans. Today the test is the thing. What is your native I.Q., and what are
you doing with it? Can you beat the curse that nature and your ancestral germ plasm are supposed to have
put upon you? Or are you scared by the ghost? Your capital may be limited. What is your moral “turnover”?
Are your gains equally so? Are you laying your plans to stay?

The general lack of interest in health and physical well-being among Davidson students, as revealed by answers to a recent
questionnaire, is a source of keen disappointment to those who realize that development of the intellect without a corresponding development
of the physique is valueless.

It was generally understood, even before the questionnaire was circulated, that large numbers of Davidson students were not availing themselves
of the opportunities for bodily development. But, no such percentage as that revealed by the answers to the questionnaire had
been dreamed of. Almost a half of the Davidson students admit that they do not take any regular physical exercise
as often as three times a week, and that they'd beOpposed to any regulation which contemplated compulsory physical drills for
all students! Physicians everywhere agree that inertia and lack of regular exercise result in impaired health, and that impaired health,
in turn, lessens a man’s chances of success in life. A realization of the importance of proper exercise was one
of the prime motives in the establishment of our Y. M. C. A.’s, with their ideal of the “Four-Square Man.”
The expenditure of thousands of dollars each year by colleges and universities for gymnastic equipment is a confession by leading
educators that health is a prime requisite for any success.

Some Davidson students contend that they would take exercise if the college furnished them with more and better equipment. Their
demand for better equipment is justified, and there is little doubt but that the college will supply such equipment as
soon as funds are available. But, students who really want to exercise are not kept from doing so by inadequate
equipment. Two immense athletic fields, a golf course, an indoor and outdoor gymnasium, and a dozen tennis courts can accommodate
practically every man in the student body who cares to utilize them. God's great out-of-doors offers unbounded opportunity for those
who enjoy hiking and running. A large proportion of the students who fail to exercise cannot blame their inertia on
lack of equipment. The need for additional equipment, especially with regard to a swimming pool, tennis courts, and gymnastic facilities,
is great—but the student who is really interested in the matter of health will not wait to take his exercise
until the college furnishes him with newer and better ways in which to build up and preserve his physical well-being.

Four years and see the business through, or are you just dodging until you are found out and fired? Herein
is the chemicalization that raises such a meaningless fizz in current discussion about the colleges. We are trying to enforce
standards after the new style on our undergraduate contingent in general, to whom we so readily assume ourselves to be
superior, and as diligently do we resist the possible bearing of these novel tests on our own too meager stock
of virtues. Up to the present, we have “got by” on the old-style examination. Why not let it be that?
But it is not the undergraduate alone who has got to meet the tests of this new day. The institution,
the alumni (young and old), the trustees (especially if they be plutocratic), the president (as always, it is part of
his job), the faculty, and even the fond parent in the twilight background—they all are to have their day in
court, and they all squirm more or less under the ordeal, for the fact is, these are very squirmy times.

Success of the old sort is comfortable. We all like its results well enough. But when we list the long
line of worthies whom the world remembers most fondly, would the economic future alone have put any single one of
them over the top of the world’s gratitude? We suspect not. The outstanding figure on the tablets of human memory
today is that of the boy who did not succeed, the boy who got lost in the muck and mire
of the fight, lost his identity, lost touch with his comrades, and who yet stayed on the job to the
grim end—the unknown soldier of the war. His memory humbles and ennobles the years. Is this the precious gift of
the war? Is this the new spirit of youth? Then the old standards of success certainly must go; they are
sadly out of date.

What do we go to college for? A good time; the Jones family tradition; four years more of irresponsibility; preparation
for life; nothing else to do—all good reasons enough, provided the boy sees it through. It is to be presumed,
if the doctors are right, that after four years’ association with their program the boy will emerge with a more
refined and purposeful complex than that with which he entered. The faculty are entitled to at least that much chance
to prove their case. As for the boy, how can he do more than do his best with whatever the
elders have bequeathed him of motive and vision as well as of social tradition and personal equipment? The elders are
in no position to complain. Some of them try to dodge from under the situation and relay the blame for
their own shortcomings back to degenerate ancestors. Current theories of inheritance are a very godsend to such. But the mistakes
of the fathers cannot be wholly evaded. They had their chance some years ago to do their dodging, and they
didn’t. Herein is the humor of the situation which develops when the undergraduate reverses the day's frolic and applies present-day
psychology to his elders and instructors. Some of the tested elders do not radiate a spotlight brilliancy in such events.
There are indications that the doctors begin to see the joke. Turnabout is fair play. It might be rather stimulating
(it certainly would help us all to ease up a bit on the juniors) if every one of us could
be made to acquire a registered I. Q. to hang up inside the chamber door where it would look us
in the face each day as we emerged to the routine of our well-oiled complacency.

We scan the moral landscape too rapidly these days. We cannot whiz through present-day follies at forty-five miles an hour
and even see the more intimate beauties of the wayside. A slower pace would be a relief to all of
us. Social pedestrianism should be revived. It is an act which breeds patience and tolerance, perspective and understanding. It is
a dead-sure cure for the fly-by-night cynicism which so discolors current criticism of youth. “We cannot build Utopias with young
people corrupted at every turn by the example of their elders. We must start, so far as we can, with
a clean slate.” (Will Durant, in The Story of Philosophy). And we must all start together. The test is on,
and the test's the thing. Youth accepts the challenge. Why shouldn't the elders do the same?—G.H. M., in What The
Colleges Are Doing.

Ten years ago the freshman was initiated into campus life by one grand brawl. He was treated like a savage
by savages and came to the natural conclusion that a freshman at college was the least desirable of mankind. By
the time the freshman attended his first class he was broken in body and in spirit. This year the freshman
was treated as the most popular person at the university. Mixers, dances, and assemblies were given for his sole benefit.
He was welcomed by the president and the deans. The churches made him feel at home and the fraternities prized
his friendship. What a more receptive mind the new student is in by the gentle and sincere introduction to college
today than by that of ten years ago! Instead of carrying a bruise in his heart, he has thankfulness toward
his newly made home. Instead of being a jackass to perform for the others’ amusement, he is made a prince
in a strange principality—The Daily Iowan.

Aside from the usual blah and bluster anent college spirit and undergraduate traditions, there is a distinctly constructive sentiment of
regard entertained by a student body for its alma mater. Unfortunately, this lies submerged, for the most part, unless it
is aroused by some spectacular train of events or a project of singular popularity. The University of Minnesota has been
recent witness to such revival. Freshman Week was a happy union of sentiment and practicality. Without ostentation, some hundreds of
upperclassmen made it their business to supplement the activities of the administration in relieving the incoming freshmen of the most
severe trials of orientation to the campus. A splendid spirit of cooperation prevailed. In a university, a system of freshman
welcome is an absolute essential if the incoming students are to achieve anything but a jumbled first impression. Measured in
subsequent values, the recent exercises were the equivalent of several weeks of sore experience in the trial-and-error method of adjustment
to campus routine. First impressions are always lasting. —The Minnesota Daily.

Briggs has neglected the opportunity for a cartoon filled with heart interest in his series “When a Feller Needs a
Friend.” The smiling sympathy the youngsters of his cartoons arouse is not nearly as justified as the human feeling a
graduate would have for the portrayal of a freshman during his first few days at the University. Arriving in Ann
Arbor he is greeted in a far less hospitable manner than was Columbus. Through the chasms between the mountains of
trunks come the wild cries of the taxi drivers. He has no place to pitch his tent, no guide to
help him. In a taxi coming from the midnight train in that crowded first week, a Southern freshman asked to
be taken to the “city hotel”; but the impatient taxi driver said that all hotels were filled and that he
would drop the freshman on State Street. Think of it. State Street at midnight. No room. No knowledge of the
town. The process of registration is discouraging. It is nearly impossible to find anyone who will accept the freshman’s tuition
money. The homesick boy signs his name and the name of his hometown nearly fifty times during registration, and he
longs for that hometown each time he writes its name upon the card. As he is shunted from the Gym
to the Recorder's Office, from the Athletic Office to the Classification Committee... (Continued on page 8)
