THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 28, 1927

Sophs Name Class Leaders for Year

In elections held last week, the present Sophomore class elected W. H. Bailey as vice-president for next year and John
Melton, Fred Ratchford, and Bill Powell as their representatives on the new Student Council, which has just been installed into
office. Mac King, who had already been elected president for next year, will, of course, also serve on the Council
as a representative of the class of ’29.

The student council elections were begun before Junior Speaking but not completed until a day or so after school was
in session again. The five men who were nominated by the council were John Melton, Dick Flynn, Bob Kell, Fred
Ratchford, and John T. Roddey. Bill Powell, “Hub” Knox, and Bob Grady were nominated from the floor. After several very
close ballots, Bill Powell was elected and Flinn, Kell, and Knox were eliminated. On the last ballot, Ratchford, Roddey, and
Grady were elected.

The election of the vice-president was held immediately after the student council elections had been run off. Sam Smith, Bill
Bailey, Bob Grady, and Monroe Gilmour were eliminated, and the issue was between Smith and Bailey. On the second ballot,
Bill Bailey was elected by gaining a majority over Smith.

Bailey has been taking an active interest in many activities on the campus since his entrance into Davidson last year.
He is from Rock Hill, S. C. Besides being a track man of no mean ability, he is a member
of the Eumenean Literary Society and a member of the Reporters’ Club. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha
social fraternity.

All of the men who were elected to the Student Council are leaders along various lines on the campus. John
Melton, of Decatur, Ga., among other things, is a varsity football player, a track man, vice-president of the Athletic Association
for next year, and a member of the “Y” Cabinet. He belongs to the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Fred Ratchford
played baseball on the Freshman team last season, and this year is doing well on the varsity. He is an
active member of the Philanthropic Literary Society. Lowell, N. C., is his home. Bill Powell, from Little Rock, Ark., came
into especial prominence in the work that he did this year on the financial end of the Soph Banquet. He
is one of the Sophomore Track managers and has been working on the Business Staff of the Davidsonian. He is
a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

NEW STAFF OF CHAMELEON (Continued from page 1)

R. A. Boggess, the editor of the essay department, is a member of the present Sophomore class. An essay of
his was published in the fall issue of the magazine. He has also been connected with the review department of
this year’s staff. Brown McQueen received the editorship of the department of fiction as a result of his experience in
short story writing. He has also written some very good poetry. One of his poems in the next issue is
considered to be one of the best published this year. Caldwell Withers, editor of the review department, was the editor-in-chief
of Sanity Rare, the Junior class publication. He has contributed to the annual and is closely connected with literary work
on the campus. Among the editors, Malcolm Murchison has a good style of writing which must make up for his
lack of experience along editorial lines. He is also an associate editor of Quips and Cranks. Dick Flinn has found
time to turn out some very good poetry, some of which has been published in recent numbers of the magazine.
Bernard McClaugherty has a very discriminating taste in reading and will be valuable in assisting in editing the magazine.

It is the opinion, prevalent on the campus, that this year’s present staff has edited some of the best and
most well-balanced numbers in the history of the magazine. It has gained national recognition by the Association of College Magazines.

When better books are suppressed, Americans will read them.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs. Trust Department under Government supervision of
the United States.

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Make us your Executor. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
DUNN, President
JOHNSTON, Vice-President
SUMMEY, Vice-President
R. A. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
J. B. DOAR, Assistant Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

CAROLINA THEATRE
“The Finest in the Carolinas”
The Pick of the Pictures and Keith Vaudeville
THE ONLY THEATRE BETWEEN WASHINGTON AND ATLANTA WITH A REFRIGERATED COOLING SYSTEMof Jesus, and it is present in every one
and challenges Davidson, and graduated from Texas A. & M. Benning he stands near the head of the first lieutenants
and will probably receive his captaincy by the time he reaches here. Carolina Religion Head Interprets Christianity Workman Answers Question
of “What Is Christianity?” Last Sunday evening the “Y” vesper service was conducted by Doctor Workman, Dean of the School
of Religion at the University of North Carolina. Dr. Workman is himself a young man and, as such, had a
forceful message to deliver to the student body. Dr. Workman was formerly of Henry’s College in Arkansas, of Emory University,
in Atlanta, Ga., and of the Southern Methodist University at Dallas, Texas. He became noted for his ability in religious
work, and in 1926, he was secured by the University of North Carolina, to be head of their School of
Religion. Dr. Workman took his text from the 16th chapter of Matthew, the 15th and 16th verses. He gave “The
Birth Hour of Christianity” as the subject of this passage, and “What Is Christianity,” as the He stated the fact
that the average man of today has a mistaken conception of Christianity, and all of the Twelve Disciples in Jesus’
day. Therefore the Lord had taken them aside to teach them more about his work and to prepare them to
carry it on after he had surrendered to his enemies. The average man will give one of the following answers
to the question, “What Is Christianity?” He will answer that it is an organization based on the literature of the
New Testament, or an organization of the Church, or a creed of the theology of Christ. All of these are
incorrect, because there was a New Testament before there was a Church, and the theology which Peter advanced was rejected
the very next day. What is Christianity? It is an unreal something which is in every man and is brought
to the surface in his best moments. Every man must serve in his own personal way, for Nature never duplicates,
and we are all different. Any yearning towards goodness is up to each man to discover His presence, and to
act according to his own perception of the Divine Will. We must all be ourselves, and at the same time
be of the men whose whole universe revolves around the Will of Jesus. In this, and in no other way
can we be Christians. Dr. Workman again stated that Jesus is one whose presence each person must find and serve
in his own particular way.

CAPTAIN DAUGHERTY (Continued from page 1) he will go to the school at Fort Leavenworth to continue his studies on
the military line. All the other officers, with the exception of Captain Weems, will be back next year, and in
addition there will be another officer, Lieut. J. A. Otto, now a student at the Infantry School at Fort Benning.
Lieutenant Otto was very highly recommended by Maj. T. C. Hearn, former P. M. S. and T. at Davidson. Lieutenant
Otto is a native of Texas. At Fort Benning he stands near the head of the first lieutenants and will
probably receive his captaincy by the time he reaches here.

Safe-guarding tobacco’s priceless asset

PIPE TOBACCO Tobacco that’s a veritable treasure, a wealth of rich mellowness, worth its weight in gold... deserves every possible
protection to assure its safekeeping. So, the utmost precaution is taken to safeguard Granger’s priceless properties. To prevent the loss
of one bit of its freshness, Granger is first packed in a heavy-foil pouch... Then to be 100% on the
safe-side, this is sealed ‘air-TIGHT’ in an extra outside-wrapper of glassine—keeping the tobacco ‘factory-fresh’ till you break the seal to
load your pipe! Our chemists say it is ‘an almost perfect seal for tobacco condition’—protecting tobacco better than any container
except the vacuum tin. Then, because it is much less expensive than a costly pocket-tin, Granger's pocket-packet sells at just
ten cents—the greatest value ever offered to pipe-smokers! Granger Rough Cut is made by the Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company.
The half-pound vacuum tin is forty-five cents, the foil-pouch package, sealed in glassine, is ten cents, for pipes only!

The personnel of the R. O. T. C. department at Davidson next year will consist of six commissioned and non-commissioned
officers. They are as follows: Captain Daugherty, P. M. S. & T.; Captain Elkins, Lieutenant Beckett, Lieutenant Otto, Sergeant Kirby,
and Sergeant Button.

A Scotch minister was asked to pray for rain, and his prayer was followed by such a downpour that the
crops were injured. During the storm one old farmer said to another: “This comes o’ trustin’ She isn’t a groceryman’s
daughter, but she sure knows the high-priced foods.

FOR THAT TASTE OF Home Cooking On Your Way Home NEW YORK CAFE 29 West Trade St., CHARLOTTE, N.C.

MAYHEW’S Where every effort is made to SATISFY And where $4.00 buys a ticket good for $6 worth of work
J. T. EMBREY, Agent BRIGGS ARRINGTON, TOM ADAMS, Assistants PHONE 240
