THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1927 -- Sport Talk -:- News and Views of Wildcat Events By Raymond Lake

In the game with the V. M. I. Cadets last Saturday, the Wildcats, although they came out on the short end of the score, fought much harder and showed much better form than they did the week before against the Demon Deacons. As we said last week, we can’t win all the time, and it was certainly much better to lose to the Cadets than to one of the teams in the state. We don’t mean to make excuses, but in our opinion, if the Wildcats had gotten the breaks the Cadets got, we would have won the game. In the first quarter, the Wildcats were the superior team and it looked as if they would win without much trouble. The turning point of the game was the fumble of the punt in the second quarter. After this break, the Wildcats seemed not to be able to get together again, while the Cadets kept getting more breaks and continued to improve. Lady Luck seemed to be with the visitors, and this, together with the fact that they had a strong, heavy team, lost the game for the Wildcats. Some say that the Cadets simply had a stronger team and were due to win the game, but if the Wildcats had not had hard luck and had played like they evidently did against the 'Gators, our guess is that they would have again been the victors.

The important game is the one this week with the Wolfpack. This team has defeated Carolina, Wake Forest, Florida, and other strong teams and on the outcome of this encounter depend the Wildcats for the 1927 championship. The defeat last week may do more good than harm. If it puts enough fight and determination into the team for them to defeat State College, we will have been well paid for the humiliation of a defeat. One thing which contributed to the defeat last Saturday was the lack of reserve material on the part of the Wildcats and the abundant supply of it on the part of the Cadets. Even though it was near the last of the game, there was quite a noticeable change in the line when Jim Grey was put in. If he and Johnny Melton could have been in there the whole game, the result would probably have been different.

Wolfpack and Wildcats to Play in Greensboro To Meet Each Other For Nineteenth Time

The Davidson-State game in Greensboro this Saturday will be the feature encounter of the week so far as state championship football for the 1927 season is concerned. When the two teams run out on the field in the World War Memorial Stadium in Greensboro, Saturday, they will be meeting for the nineteenth time in the histories of the two institutions. If Davidson wins, the standing of the Big Five will be a grand mix-up. If State wins, the race will be between the boys in Raleigh and the Duke Blue Devils. According to comparative scores, State holds a slight edge over the Wildcats. As far as comparative scores may be relied upon for dope this year, the underdog is supposed to win. Therefore, either team stands a chance to win or the Wildcats are supposed to come out on top. State has a rather enviable record. They defeated Elon at the very first of the season, 39 to 0. A short time after this game, they journeyed to Florida and licked the Gators 12 to 6. Wrecking the hopes of the state teams, they took Wake Forest on for a 30 to 6 win, and ran over Carolina to the tune of 19 to 6. Davidson, on the other hand, is just beginning her state race to maintain her record of 1926. Beginning early in the season, she took Elon across the goal line for four touchdowns and a 27 to 0 score.

Custom-built clothes to fit you. Tailored under the supervision of Mr. Frank Forrester, who knows the design of College Clothes. Mr. I. Nusbaum, a tailor who is skilled in his trade, will have with him a complete line of the latest and most attractive materials. He will fit you accurately and assist you in your selection. The Students Store Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 7th and 8th.

The Wildcat sprinters were downed by Duke’s Blue Devils, in the cross-country meet, held at Davidson, by a score of 15-44 last Saturday. Tuttle and Woodward, Duke sprinters, were the first to come in, making the course in 19 minutes and 27 seconds. Four more of the Methodists crossed the goal line before Lafferty, the first Davidson man, completed the run, then came Newman. The next in order were: Thrower, Beavers, Sloop, Treverton, and Wilkerson. Bob Sloop is the only man left of Davidson’s last year's cross-country team. He participated in all the meets last year and bids fair to be one of the foremost stars this season. Lafferty holds the record for the best time, having made the course in 20 minutes and 24 seconds. Thrower, Beavers, and Nunan also showed good form in last Saturday’s meet. Tuttle and Woodward, of the Duke University team, are exceptionally good runners. Woodward is the captain of this year’s team, and both won all-state honors last season. Previous to the Davidson meet, the Duke team downed Washington and Lee with a score of 19 to 36. Davidson is to meet State College in a cross-country meet next Saturday, at Greensboro. This meet will be a critical test for both teams, as the course is a very difficult one. Redfern is State’s best man.

STUNT NIGHT (Continued from Page 1)

The next to last presentation was a one-act play put on by the Dramatic Club, under the direction of Professor Erwin and V. J. Guthery. It was a drama of the war and peculiar means were used to reform a drunken captain. The final event on the program was the singing of “O! Davidson,” by the Glee Club. Stunt Night is an annual event on Homecoming Day, put on by the different classes and organizations on the Hill.

The Florida Gators dropped a game to the Wildest Wildcats in Gainesville, on a muddy field, to the tune of 12 to 0. However, Davidson met Wake Forest and played them to a 13 to 13 tie, making it the fourth tie game in as many years. Davidson has yet to play the three strongest teams in the state; State, Carolina, and Duke on November 5th, 12th, and 24th, respectively.

BIG FIVE Player College

Cross Country Runners Blue Devil Team Takes First Five Places

Wildkittens’ Third Game to be Played in Durham Davidson Fresh to Meet Duke Fresh November 4th

The coming game of the D. C. Freshmen with the Duke Rat team bids fair to furnish quite a bit of excitement. The fray, which takes place onNovember 4th, in Durham, tends to be in the Wildkitten’s favor, but there will have to be considerable fighting displayed as evinced by the fact that the Duke Imps played the State Freshmen to a scoreless tie. However, the Duke aggregation was defeated by Oak Ridge by a score of 14-7, which places the Durham team and D. C. on the same level, as it was the Oak Ridge team that gave the Wildkittens a drubbing. No doubt the Duke Rats will be primed and it is up to the D. C. Freshmen to put up a good fight. The D. C. line-up seems to be in good shape for its jaunt up to Durham. Captain Goodykoontz’s leg is coming around in fine shape which is an encouraging note to D. C. backers. The Fresh backfield shows up mighty well, with Estridge, David, and Pope as the mainstays. These players are developing the backfield into a very efficient bunch of ground gainers. The Fresh line is coming along well, too. Brock and Foil are showing splendid form at guard, while Covington at tackle is ranked by many as among the best. Having beaten Wofford in a game which critics say should have yielded at least four touchdowns to the Davidson team, the Wildkitten supporters, while not overconfident, are looking forward to a favorable outcome in the game with the Duke Freshmen.

Big Five Team in Championship Race

Football fans all over the state are eagerly awaiting the outcome of this week’s matches with an eye to seeing to whom the laurels of this season will be given. The Blue Devils of Duke University and State's Wolf Pack both have perfect records thus far as regards the championship for 1927. The Wildcats, champions for the past season of 1926, may be decided by this Saturday's game when they meet State in Greensboro. As yet Davidson has neither won nor lost a game within the State, having tied one, with the Wake Forest Deacons, which team has lost two tilts to date. Carolina, prophesied by “the wise boys” as a strong threat, without winning a single game in the state, has lost two tilts. The following is a list of statistics on the Big Five teams:

SATURDAY’S RESULTS
Davidson 0
Wake Forest 6
State 19
Carolina 6

WHERE THEY PLAY THIS WEEK
Davidson vs. State
Carolina vs. V. M. I.
Wake Forest vs. Furman

STANDING of the Teams
Won Lost Tied Pet.
Duke 2 0 0 1.000
State 2 0 0 1.000
Davidson 0 0 1 .500
Wake Forest 1 2 1 .400
Carolina 0 2 0 .000

(Continued from page 1)

cause there were no young men to take the place of those champions who are losing their skill because of age. “A great athlete,” Paddock says, “is one who at the crisis can add to his natural ability something better than his best, and one who trains rigorously to make this possible.” He cited many famous examples of comebacks made by men who had the will to win and the grit to train for it. At this point, he gave an interesting explanation of the science of running, that branch of sport with which he is so familiar and in which he excels. Paddock, as a last thought, showed how athletics have brought an international spirit of unity and how good sportsmanship is permeating games wherever sport is found. His final admonition was “Whether you win or lose, give the best you have.”

OPPONENTS’ SCORES
Citadel 0
South Carolina 6
Florida 32
Mercer 6
Wofford 0
Clemson 6
Elon 31
Guilford 13
Wake Forest 6
Duke 32
N. C. State 19
U.N.C. 6

Coming State-D. C. Gattis to Tell Much

Whether or not Davidson will remain in the race for state championship honors will be decided Saturday at Greensboro in the game with N. C. State. The game will be called at 2:30 o’clock and it promises to be one of the hardest fought games on the schedule. In reviewing the outcome of games with N. C. State that have already passed into history, it is found that they have met with each other a total of 19 times. Of the 19 games played the scores of three were unavailable; of the others, four were tied, four were won by Davidson, and the remaining eight were decided in favor of State. The following is a schedule of the games:

1899—Davidson 0 State 0
1900—Davidson 17 State 0
1901—Davidson 6 State 27
1902—Davidson 5 State 0
1905—Record unavailable.
1907—Davidson 0 State 6
1908—Davidson 0 State 21
1912—Record unavailable.
1913—Record unavailable.
1916—Davidson 0 State 0
1917—Davidson 3 State 7
1919—Davidson 6 State 36
1920—Davidson 0 State 23
1921—Davidson 3 State 3
1922—Davidson 0 State 15
1923—Davidson 6 State 12
1924—Davidson 10 State 10
1925—Davidson 9 State 0
1926—Davidson 3 State 0

Sophs Forge Ahead in Class Basketball

Wednesday, November 2nd, the Juniors and Freshmen engaged in the last basketball game of the first round of the inter-class tournament. The next game will be between the Seniors and Sophomores on Friday. This will be the initial game of the second round. With their victory over the Seniors last Monday night in an exciting contest the supremacy of the Sophomores in basketball this year seems assured. This encounter was full of thrills from the start to the final whistle. At the end of the last half the score was tied, 31 to 31; but after an extra final period had been played, the Sophs had gained four points and the game went to them, 35 to 31. The Freshmen are showing up unusually well this year and should accomplish something toward helping the varsity next year; they hold second place in the tournament so far. The Juniors and Seniors are tied for third place, the Seniors having a slight edge over the Juniors. Although they now hold first place and are undefeated, the Sophomores are not forgetting that they have the Freshmen with whom to contend, and they are not apt to get overconfident because of their recent victories. The inter-class basketball tournament is held to develop class spirit, to facilitate the choosing of men for the varsity and also the prospects for the varsity and to give men, who cannot make the varsity, a chance to play the game. Charley Carson is the basketball manager, and Ben Wilson, captain of the varsity, is doing most of the class team coaching.

COLLEGE DELEGATES
(Continued from page one)

ranged by the executive committee, which also selects the place for the next meeting. The committee is composed of six men, the three officers for the conference, and three men elected to serve on the committee. The only Davidson faculty member on the committee for the coming year is Dr. T. W. Lingle. The officers for the coming year are, President, President Few, of Duke; Vice-President, President Hilley, of Atlantic Christian College; Secretary, Prof. N. W. Walker, of University of North Carolina. The executive committee is composed of these officers and the following, Professor Brooks of N. C. State; Professor Lingle, of Davidson; and Prof. J. A. Highsmith, of N. C.