THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1927

Hamlin Garland Lectures Tonight On American Authors and Reminiscences

Hamlin Garland, who comes here Thursday, March 31st, gives Davidson one of the foremost writers of the country. Mr. Garland was one of the first to favor and use the short story form and he contributed greatly toward the popularity the short story has today.

Mr. Garland’s life has been a rather unusual one for an author. He was born in Wisconsin and before he was 11 had migrated westward three times. His early life was spent entirely on the farm or on the trail, and he had little chance for educating himself. At the age of 15, he was doing a man’s work on the farm, and continued to do so until he was about 20. By rather hard struggling, he secured some elementary schooling and was able to enter Cedar Valley Seminary, Osage, Iowa. By hard work coupled with natural ability, he graduated in 1881, and began teaching school. He ceased his work along this line in 1883, when he went further west to settle a claim in the Dakota land “boom.”

The following year Mr. Garland went to Boston, as both a teacher and a scholar. There he did a great deal of reading and became very much impressed and under the influence of the French “Veritists.” Then he began to write. First came sketches; pictures of the western life he had lived as a boy. From these he advanced to short stories and wrote two of his best works, “Main Travelled Roads” and “Prairie Folks.”

Mr. Garland found at this time that, after his years in Boston, his homeland, the West, appeared to him very differently—he saw it in an entirely new light. Before, it had seemed to him a wonderful farming country, where the inhabitants lived settled and happy lives. He looked upon it as the happiest and most prosperous section of the nation in that the people were satisfied. But now, he saw it as the section where men worked themselves to death with no actual reward for their grinding toil. There were no hopes and no bright outlook for the future. The grimness and primitive life contented the people there because they had never known the happiness and culture of a higher civilization. The new feeling which now came over him gave rise to many stories, such as “Under the Lion's Paw.” After that, novels began to follow. The influence of Ibsen, Hardy, Tolstoi, and Maupassant are seen in his style and his thoughts. He did not write for pure entertainment but had a deep purpose behind every one of his works.

He became prominent in the social life of the cities where he associated with other contemporaries. He founded the Cliff Dweller’s Club and was its first president. He also became a member of the Arts and Country Clubs of New York. Later, in 1918, he became a member of the American Society of Arts and Letters. Today Mr. Garland is regarded as one of the foremost authors of America, and Davidson is indeed fortunate in having him here. Among his best-known works are: Main Travelled Roads, Other Main Travelled Roads, A Son of the Middle Border, A Daughter of the Middle Border, Trail Makers of the Middle Border, Prairie Songs.

Letter From Cox Gives Vivid Picture of China

Hangchow Christian College, Zakew, Che., China, Feb. 25, 1927.

Dear Fellows:

If you have been keeping up with the happenings in China during the last few weeks you will have seen that history has been made—and made much more rapidly than usual. Here at the college we have watched history in the making, for on the road below us, soldiers have marched and retreated; the retreating ones leaving behind them desolation and destruction; the advancing ones bringing happiness and freedom—for the present.

You will remember how I wrote you about a month ago of the coming of the Northern troops under Sun Chuanfang, and how they drove the Southern troops almost to the boundaries of the province. School had to close at that time in order to allow the students to go home and help their people—but the North was not completely successful. The only soldiers that they drove out were deserters from their own ranks who had joined the South. When the real Southerners came it was a different story.

On the afternoon of February 16th, things began to happen. Crowds of ragged, dirty soldiers passed by, on their way to Zakow, coming away from the front. They were hatless—with towels tied around their heads; walking barefoot in the mud; covered with mud—guns, clothes and all; faces black with months’ unwashed accumulation. On talking to them, we found that underneath their Northern uniform they had on a Southern uniform, and that they had identification tags from both Northern and Southern armies—the latter tag securely fastened.

We had seen a poor old coolie who had been conscripted by the Northerners, dying by the side of the road, because when he got too tired to go on further, they had jabbed him through the temple with a bayonet. Being shot without mercy was “an eye for an eye.” There were ten or more Northern soldiers trying to glean a last penny from the selling of provisions in Zakow, who did not realize the enemy were upon them. Suddenly the populace, farmers and tradesmen, found guns and spears and ancient weapons and turned upon their oppressors. The advance scouts joined in the massacre, and had a wonderful time taking pot shots at fleeing soldiers entrapped in box cars, and between fences. One chap fled to the Standard Oil Company's gate with three soldiers shooting at him, and when he found it closed, tumbled into the creek with a bullet in his vitals. One other, not quite so fortunate, fell with his head over the bridge, wounded, and a youth with a butcher’s knife proceeded to hack his head off—and the knife was dull! It was a regular miniature French Revolution with peasants chasing soldiers; blood in their eyes and yelling at the top of their voices.

(Continued on page 8)“> O- A BS DW The Captain of the Greyhorse Troop, and The Light of the Star, Northern soldiers who had been captured in the fighting around Nanchang last autumn, and demobilized by the South. They remobilized and sent against Chekiang, only to refuse to fight and desert to his cause. Southerners had not paid them for six months—which accounted for their ragged appearance.

Early on the morning of the next day, we found hordes of soldiers passing on the road below, in close formation, also moving towards Zakow. We walked along with them, and found that they were not retreating, but that the 8th division was being sent back for a rest, after fighting the Southerners, and that the 13th division was being transferred. We rather doubted this information, save for the fact that the soldiers didn’t seem to be running, and said they had defeated the South and didn’t know why they were ordered back. On arrival in Zakow, they found that there was no engine, or train to transport them, that all the railroad staff had decamped, and that all their higher officers had left for Shanghai on the preceding day. The soldiers began to sell their flour and provisions to the people for a song, while the rest of them started on walking to Hangchow. They had neither money nor food, and made the Chamber of Commerce come across with the latter. They did only a moderate amount of looting that night, but the following morning, when their request for money was refused, they concealed beneath layers of clothing. We finally solved the mystery, and found that they had originally been Garland.

The regular meeting of the Ministerial Band was held in Shearer Hall last Sunday. The meeting was led by J. H. Murchison. Tom Hill and Carl Pritchett led in prayer. Dr. Richards was the speaker at the meeting and talked on the subject, Requirements of a Preacher. He took up first the requirement of health, both bodily and mentally. In order to succeed, a minister has to have an analytical mind. He has to have personality. The most important requirement, however, is to have personal experience with Jesus.

The Volunteer Band held its meeting in Shearer as usual last Sunday. Glenn Fry led the devotional, taking Faith as his subject. After this part of the meeting, Fry, who has recently been elected president of the State Union for the coming year, told a few of the things which were taken up at the State Convention, held at N. C. C. W. last Saturday. An interesting letter from Dr. Frank Price, missionary to Hangchow, was read. In his letter, Dr. Price told of his personal experience in Hangchow during recent fighting in and around this city. At the meeting Sunday, the officers for the coming term are to be elected, and every member is urged to be present.

The Christian Endeavor Training Class held a very short meeting in Shearer on Sunday. There was some discussion of the deputation to represent the Davidson Class in Charlotte next Sunday, and the subjects on which the various members of the deputation would speak. It has been announced that a similar deputation will be sent to Huntersville on the last Sunday in the month of April.

An organization, which will create much interest on the campus among the members of the student body and the faculty who are interested in the masterpieces of the classical languages, has recently been organized under the name of “The Classical Club of Davidson.” Although this organization is not an honorary fraternity, it will function somewhat in that manner. The purpose of this group is to stimulate and enliven a greater interest in all the famous classics of the ancient world. Literature accomplishments which have stood the tests of hundreds of years and have been unequalled in their way by any writer of modern times, have been handed down to the scholar of today and are his if he is but interested. The members of the club will, from time to time, carefully study selections from Latin and Greek literature and will make reports on their reading. It is hoped that the club will produce a much deeper appreciation of classical literature throughout the student body.

At a meeting of the club to be held soon, new members will be bid. The requirements for membership are three semesters’ work in Latin or Greek and a manifested interest in the work together with a good scholastic standing in them.

The membership of the club as now organized consists of Dr. Grey, Dr. Harding, and Professor Bailey, of the faculty, and J. S. Gray, H. L. Johnson, and W. K. Pritchett, of the student body. The club met Tuesday night, March 22nd, elected officers and accepted a constitution presented by Pritchett. J. S. Gray was elected president and W. K. Pritchett was chosen secretary-treasurer.

J. S. Gray, who through his scholastic endeavors has gained the nickname “Stud,” ranks fourth in the Junior class, having made the honor roll both semesters of his Sophomore year. He is a member of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary fraternity. He is also a member of the “D” Club and plays center field on the baseball team. W. K. Pritchett is a prominent member of the Sophomore class, ranking high in scholastic endeavors and campus activities. He stands near the top of his class in scholarship, having made the honor roll every semester of his attendance here. He is deeply interested in Greek and is taking the advanced course with Dr. Harding. He is Dr. Harding's assistant in Greek, and is very active in campus work, being a member of the varsity debating team, a member of the Beavers Club, and a member of The Davidsonian staff.

H. L. Johnson, a member of the Junior class, is one of the best Latin students who has attended Davidson in quite a while. He is also a member of the Glee Club, a good singer and better violinist. Professor Bailey and Dr. Grey’s assistant in that language.

You can bet your Sunday kilties there’s a wee bit o’ Scotch in every pipe and in every pipe-smoker, too. For while the best tobacco in the world is none too good for us, it does go against our grain to spend good money for fancy packages or costly cans. Get the tobacco RIGHT and, as far as we pipe-smokers go, you can cannily can the can and save us the darby. That’s why bonnie Granger Rough Cut has all the pipes in the country a-doing the Highland-fling. Here’s pipe tobacco as fine as the world affords at a price all the world can afford.

Fine old Burley, mellowed Wellman’s way... worthy of any pipe in the world! And paste this in your old Tam-o-shanter: Because the pocket-package of Granger is a new “glassine-sealed” foil-pouch (instead of costly tin) it sells at a price never equalled on tobacco of such quality. Hoot mon! It’s truly a Scotchman’s bargain!

GRANGER ROUGH CUT

The half-pound vacuum tin is forty-five cents; the foil-pouch, sealed in glassine is ten cents. Made for pipes only! Granger Rough Cut is made by the Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company.”