THE Vol. XIV FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON & Third Year Men Vote to Retain Junior Speaking Program by Large Majority Class Favors Program as a Traditional Event LITTLE OPPOSITION Vote Comes as a Result of Unfavorable Article—Oratorical Preliminaries Postponed The Junior class, at a meeting held last Monday morning, voted practically unanimously to continue Junior Speaking at Davidson. The vote came as a result of agitation against the event stirred up by an article which appeared in The Davidsonian of February 24th. The article denounced the present Junior Speaking policy with its heavy expenditures and called for some action to correct the evil. Members of the Junior Week Committee, not wishing to carry on their plans without the support of the class, immediately requested that a meeting be called to discuss the matter. At the meeting several members of the class spoke in favor of the program, but no one arose to oppose it. The following vote showed that by far the majority of the class wished to retain “Davidson's only significant social event.” With the assurance of the class behind them, the committee is fast pushing a well-rounded program to completion. The Juniors will bring several organizations to Davidson during the remainder of the year to give performances. The proceeds will help defray the expenses of the speaking program. The Converse College Glee Club will appear in Shearer Hall Friday, March 11th, in a program of music and mirth. Further announcement will be made about the performance during the coming weeks. (Continued on page 7)

Quips and Cranks Nears Completion Assurance has been made by the editor of the Annual, Don Wharton, that the Annual will be ready for delivery by May 1st. Reports were also made that indicate that the annual will be much better than last year's. A larger annual, more entertaining write-ups, and more attractive pictures have been intimated by the different editors of the staff. The first noted improvement is the fact that this year’s annual will be much larger. Whereas last year’s annual only had 268 pages, the annual of 1926-27 will have 316 pages, a difference of 48 pages. This will make the “Quips and Cranks” about the largest annual that has been published at Davidson. Proofs for the entire book, as far as pictures are concerned, have gone to the printers. This will enable the printers to make the first printing of the entire book this week. On last Monday, all class pictures, honorary fraternities, group pictures were mounted, and other pictures were turned into the engravers. This will enable the printers to complete the printing of pictures in March. Not only will all the pictures be turned into the engravers, but also it was announced that all copy for the written matter must be in the editor's hands by the end of the week. Business Manager C. W. Williams reported that a great number of advertisements have been secured, and that the “Quips and Cranks” will be a financial success also. Covers have already been ordered for 675 annuals.

Army Officials to Come Here in April to Inspect Battalion for Honor Rating Commission to Decide Whether Davidson Unit Will Receive Distinctive Rating Again The R. O. T. C. Department of Davidson College has again been recommended for the War Department Inspection. This recommendation followed the inspection made before Christmas by the Commander of the Corps Area. The inspection will take place sometime in April, according to information now in the hands of the department here. The inspection is made by three officers of the general staff located at Washington, D. C. There are three boards in Washington to cover the whole United States, which is divided into three sections, called the Western, the Southern, and the New England. All of the colleges that have an R. O. T. C. unit are placed in one of these sections and if recommended for War Department Inspection are reviewed by the board in charge of that area. All of the units are graded upon a basis of 100 percent and are listed according to their rating. The top 25 percent is then taken and given the honor. The inspection proper is divided into three parts. The first part is “Support of R. O. T. C. by institution and student body.” Under this head is grouped the adequacy of facilities for instruction, care of arms, clothing and all equipment, offices and recitation rooms. The percentage of students accepting commissions and the condition of all equipment issued to the college, and the academic credits given by the college to the work. This part of the inspection is rated at 25 percent. The second part of the inspection is called “Efficiency of Theoretical Instruction.” This is allowed 30 percent of the total and is divided into two parts: methods and organization of classes and a test of the students in subject matter of their courses. (Continued on page 6)

Efficiency of teaching Prominent Lawyer Talks to Students “The lawyer of today,” declared Hon. E. R. Preston, Charlotte lawyer, speaking before a group of Davidson College students attending the third address of the Vocational Guidance Institute, “should get all the scientific training that he can possibly obtain, instead of following the old method of majoring in the ancient classics.” He gave as his reason for this assertion the fact that most of the lawsuits nowadays involve some problem of machinery and engineering. Enlarging upon this idea, the Charlotte lawyer said that a man of that profession should have a working knowledge of chemistry and physics, because “we are living in an age of scientific achievement and industrialism.” Mr. Preston gave and defined the three types of lawyers—the corporation, the damage, and the independent. While not disparaging the others, he suggested that students desiring to enter this profession should be independent lawyers in order that they might not be subjected to any man. The visitor described a composite lawyer of today. He maintained that he should not be rich nor aspire to riches, but should be comfortably fixed, with the sole desire of serving his clientele. The composite lawyer should further be highly respected in his community, and a leader in all civic endeavor. “He need not necessarily be a politician,” averred the speaker, “for lawyers are no longer the only politicians.” Politics itself, he declared, is coming to be a specialized profession. High ideals should characterize the lawyer, stated Mr. Preston. “He should be a man of sterling character, for it is untrue that all lawyers are cheats and crooks. He would be (Continued on page 6)

Tom Anderson, one of the most brilliant cagers seen at Davidson in recent years, sang his swan song last Saturday night by handing Duke a thorough trouncing. For three years he has played on the Wildcat team, being captain during the last, his Senior year. As usual, he has set the pace for his teammates, having scored almost twice as many points as any of them.

Peace Institute Solicits Funds From Local Men Presbyterian College Plans to Solicit Funds for Great Program of Expansion Peace Institute of Raleigh is preparing to stage a campaign for the purpose of raising funds for the further development of that institution. The campaign will be conducted by the students themselves and all connected with the movement will be carried on by them. Efforts to raiseMoney for this campaign will be directed to work to be made at Davidson in the near future with the hope that liberal donations will be made. Dr. Beatty, of New York City, a graduate of Westminster College, and a noted speaker for college campaigns, spoke to Davidson students recently and urged that the men take an interest in the affair and contribute to the cause. Peace Institute is under the care and direction of the Presbyterian Church and has rendered years of valuable service. Its products are now the leaders in every circle of women in which they live. Plans for expansion include the construction of Dinwiddie Chapel and the Burwell Memorial Library as wings of the old main building. Two dormitories, with a capacity of 96 students, will be erected on either side of this main group and connected with it by attractively covered arcades. The plant, when completed, will be symmetrical in (Continued on page 6).

Davidson Wildcats Take Final Game of Basketball Season From Duke Quintet

Southern Students Confer in Atlanta

The Southern Student Conference on International Relations has just completed its fourth annual meeting, one of the best since the founding of the organization, in Atlanta, Ga., Emory University and Agnes Scott College being joint hosts of the occasion. The Davidson delegation was composed of the following students: T. W. G. Ogden, Boyce McCutcheon, Tyree Dillard, Martin Arbuckle, and H. B. Miller. The program was very interesting and educational. Problems of world interest were discussed by some of the foremost speakers of the South, and the delegates were given a new insight into some of these great world problems. The officers of the Conference were as follows: President, Dieeay Miller, Emory University; first vice-president, L. H. Griffith, Presbyterian College; second vice-president, Sara Ellen Freeman, Coker College; recording secretary, Edna Mae Langston, Greenville Woman's College; corresponding secretary, W. E. Almand, Emory University; treasurer, W. A. Mabry, Duke University.

The delegates were given an informal reception at the Alumni House at Agnes Scott, at 5:00 o'clock Thursday afternoon, February 24th. At 8:30 that night a very interesting intercollegiate debate took place between Furman University and Emory University, on the subject, Resolved, That the U.S. should cancel her European war debts.

The first half was 28-19 in favor of Davidson. The remarkable shooting of the Wildcats was a feature of this period. They just couldn't miss. Anderson Celebrates Last Game With 19 Points

DAVIDSON HOLDS LEAD

Game Is Featured By Fast Passing and Many Long Shots—Weaver Good

In a fast game Saturday night, February 26th, the Davidson Wildcats downed the Duke quintet by the score 49-42. The Wildcat cagers took the lead at the first of the game and held it throughout the two periods with comparative ease. Captain Anderson, playing brilliant basketball in the last game of his spectacular career, was high-point man with a total of 19 points, one foul and nine field goals. The lead of the Wildcats was never seriously threatened. The score at the end of the first half was 28-19 in favor of Davidson. The remarkable shooting of the Wildcats was a feature of this period. They just couldn't miss. However, in the second half, the Blue Devils tallied a goal for every one that the Wildcats made, and kept the Red and Black squad from piling up a greater lead. Harrison played a good game at running guard. Next to Captain Anderson in scoring came Wilson, with a total of nine points. The remaining members of the regular squad piled up a total of seven points each. A good many of the tallies were beautifully executed field goals shot from long range. Weaver was high scorer for the visitors, with six field goals to his credit. Candler and Bennett tied for second, each with ten points. The Blue Devils outdid the Wildcats when it came to the number of personal (Continued on page 6).

Davidson Glee Club Scores Decisive Hit in Performance at Queens Auditorium

Tennis Tournament Starts Next Week

With the arrival of spring near at hand, preparations for the annual spring tennis tournament are being rapidly pushed forward. The first regular match will be played April 8th, with Furman. This year, because of lack of courts and adequate equipment, the ladder system will be used. In this system, the man who is defeated moves to the rung of the ladder formerly held by his conqueror. The positions are shifted as the matches are played, and all names are to be shifted on the same day of the match by the winner. Any man who refuses to play within two days after he has been challenged automatically changes places with his challenger. The same man cannot be challenged more than once a week, and no challenge can be made within three days of a match. All men who are interested in tennis are requested to sign up with Manager W. R. Carr at once. The names of the entrants will be posted on the bottom of the list. Manager Carr has requested that any man taking part in the matches will please not hold any court more than one hour when there are others desiring to play. An exception to this is made in the case of the varsity court, however, which will be held open to the varsity members at all times. The spring tournament will be conducted in strict accordance with the above rules. The Freshman tournament, which will begin within the next two weeks, will also be conducted on this plan.

An extensive trip is being planned for the tennis team. The schedule will be published in the next issue of The Davidsonian.

Musicians Display Talent Before Enthusiastic Charlotte Audience—Comedy Hit Added to Program

The Davidson Glee Club presented its first program of the year off the “Hill” Saturday night at Queens College. The program Saturday night was somewhat similar to that given here on February 7th. The entire club, with the Jazz and Symphony orchestras, made this trip. The attendance was very good. With this start, the officials have high hopes for a successful season. The reception accorded the club on its initial appearance was good, the Jazz orchestra making perhaps the best hit of the evening. However, Ed Wilson, premier soloist of the club, received much applause with his popular songs. D. G. Wilson, president of the club last year and now in business at Rock Hill, took the place of Bob Lowrance as the other soloist. He proved to be extremely welcome, for he was called to sing several encores. This is the first of several trips now under consideration by Caldwell Withers, advance manager. Friday, the club leaves for a four-day trip through the northern part of the state. They give their first program of the trip at Greensboro under the auspices of the Senior class of the Greensboro College for Women. The following night the same program will be repeated at the North Carolina College for Women under the Senior class. They remain in Greensboro over Sunday and the following day go to Lexington for a concert under the young people of the First Presbyterian Church of this city. From here they go to Winston-Salem to give a concert under the auspices of the Senior class of Salem College. A trip to South Carolina is under consideration for the middle of the month. (Continued on page 5).