THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 1, 1927

Sport Talk -:- News and Views of Wildcat Events
By Raymond Lake...

At the first of the year, we made the statement that, though the Wildcats might not come out on the
top in the race for state honors, they would not come out on the bottom of the list. It seems,
however, that our prediction was not of very much value. Several sport writers at the first of the year placed
the Wildcats on the bottom, and we’ll have to hand it to them on their predictions. In spite of the
fact that they came out on the bottom of the list, however, the Wildcats have not and will not admit
defeat. They’ll be in there next year fighting just as hard and making just as much trouble for their opponents
as they have made in the past. They may not have and probably will not have a wealth of material
next year, but they will have the same old Davidson spirit and the same two unbeatable coaches, and that, if
you don’t already know it, is a combination which would be hard to beat even with no material at all.

In behalf of the team of 1927, be it said that although they did not come out at the head
of the list, they did their best, and what more could we ask of them than this? No one can
ever say of them that they quit. Even when they were up against the most overwhelming odds, they fought to
the finish, and their opponents, though victorious, can never say that they were not up against a fighting team, a
team worthy of Davidson, and one that at all times upheld the traditions of Davidson. We congratulate the members of
this fighting Wildcat team, and as to those who have played their last game for their alma mater, they have
left vacant a place that will be extremely hard to fill.

There are some members of this team who deserve special mention. If the Athletic Editor felt competent to pick an
all-state team, there are two Wildcat players who would certainly be given berths on the team. Johnny Melton would be
given a place at guard, and Hugh Arrowood would be put in his old place at end. As the first
of these, in our opinion, there is not a better guard anywhere in the state, or in many other states,
than that fighting Wildcat, Johnny Melton. If he had not been hurt he would in all probability have made the
all-state team. In every game he has been in, he has been in every play and has put more fight
and pep into the team than probably any other member of the team. As for Arrowood, he has also been
in every play and has played in a manner worthy of a true Wildcat. His playing has been consistent, and
the gains around his end have been few. His playing has not been spectacular, but as has been said, he
has played consistently, and has done his part toward putting the Wildcats on the top again.

Another Wildcat, who, though he has not received any votes for the all-state team, nevertheless deserves all the praise we
can give him, is Captain Grey. In our opinion, Dick is just as good as any man on the all-state
team, and if picks for the all-state team were made on the power and ability of the player rather than
on what he has accomplished during the year, Dick would have been put on the team. He could not show
up as well this year because he did not have as good a team behind him, and no matter how
good a player may be, he has to have a strong team behind him to show what he’s got. Another
probable disadvantage was the worry and responsibility which the captaincy of a team carries with it. Even though he did
not receive any votes for the all-state team, we realize and appreciate what Dick has done for us. His praises
cannot be sung too loudly.

We spoke of the lack of spirit in the student body several weeks ago in this column, but most of
the shortcomings were made up for in the Duke game Thursday. The cheering was continued to the end even in
the face of the overwhelming defeat, and was even continued after the game was over. The cheer leader is to
be commended on his spirit in keeping up the fight and the student body for their continued cheering and the
appreciation they showed by carrying Captain Grey off the field.

Dr. Cumming—“What were Webster's final words?”

Final Games Determine Standing of Big Fivers
Wildcats Lose to Duke and Take Cellar Position

Once again comes the time of year when the worn moleskins and soiled jerseys are stored away in the stock
rooms for a little rest period, and at this time the old “stove league” begins to function. Talk goes back
over the past grid season, all-state teams are picked, and the final standings of the various contenders are determined.

The season of 1927 held no pot of gold for Monk Younker’s Wildcats. The erstwhile state champs, weakened by the
loss of many stars from the championship eleven, floundered in the cellar of the so-called Big Five, and though the
Cats fought hard in every single game, at times playing brilliantly, they were unable to down the heavier and more
experienced state elevens. The Demon Deacons of Wake Forest, also experiencing a tough season, managed to tie Davidson, largely through
the fine individual playing of Johnny Cox, and this tie game, 13-13, was the nearest that Davidson could come to
a win in the Big Five.

N. C. State, with a whole team of stars, and led by the indomitable McDowall, swept through every team in
the state and won their first title in many years. Duke gave State the fight of her life, and there
are a great many folks who still think the Duke eleven is equal to that of State. Duke lost her
great chance when she allowed the Wolfpack to trample her 20-18, and then on the next week allowed a supposedly
weaker Carolina team to overwhelm her by an 18-0 count. This game was the biggest upset of the year in
the Big Five. Carolina grew stronger as the season progressed and drew herself up to a tie for second place.
Wake Forest got off to a flying start by walloping the Tar Heels, but they fell an easy victim to
State and Duke. As has been stated before, Davidson failed to even break into the win column of the Big
Five, something that has not happened in many years. The high spot of the Wildcat’s season was their slashing win
over Florida, early in the season.

Final Standings:
Won Lost Tied Pct.
N. C. State 4 0 1.000
Carolina 2 2 .500
Duke 2 2 .500
Wake Forest 1 2 1 .333
Davidson 0 3 1 .000

Student Golf Team Ties Faculty Stars

In a very close match over the Davidson course recently, the members of the Davidson golf team tied a team
representing the faculty. The match was well played, and the results were in doubt during the entire match. For the
faculty, Professor Blythe and Professor Fulcher played the best game. Professor Blythe turned in a medal score of 39 for
the first nine holes, a very good score considering the condition of the course. Martin, of the college team, led
his teammates by defeating Dr. Watts by 7 up and 6 to go. Dr. Watts played consistent golf, but Martin
played exceptionally well and won by a decisive score.

The complete scores were:
Mills defeated Dr. C. K. Brown, 5 up and 4 to go.
Martin defeated Dr. Watts, 7 up and 6.
Professor Blythe defeated Lingle, 3 up and 2.
Professor Fulcher defeated Myers, 4 and 3.

Foursomes:
Mills and Lingle defeated Brown and Blythe, 1 up.
Watts and Fulcher defeated Martin and Myers, 2 up.
Composite score, 9-9.

ADDRESS FEATURES
(Continued from page 1)

England offered, of light mounted craft, because her possessions are too widely separated to be protected by such vessels. Since
it was decided that the only means of insuring world peace is by means of absolute national self-confidence, no agreement
was reached, therefore this conference was also a failure.

CAPT. DICK GREY
Captain Grey Concludes Spectacular Grid Career
1927 Captain Played Last Game Against Duke

Captain Dick Grey has played his last game for the Davidson Wildcats. Dick, the backbone of the Wildcat football team,
has ended his gridiron career at Davidson College.During the four years he has been at Davidson, Dick has played a
stellar brand of ball in every game in which he has taken part. A football player unexcelled and a real
friend to every student at Davidson, he has won his way into the hearts of every man in the student
body. His teammates hold him in high esteem, as evidenced by the fact that he was elected to captain the
team of 1927. He was always a dangerous runner on the offense, and the opposing team could never tell when
he would start off on one of the amazing end runs for which he is famous. He proved to be
a hard-driving back, never giving up until he was downed. On the defensive, Dick was a hard tackler and seldom
missed his man. Dick’s playing during his three years of varsity football, and his year on the freshman team, has
been nothing short of remarkable. He was a triple threat man that could kick, throw passes that went like a
bullet, and was always a consistent ground gainer. That his prowess has been recognized all over the state and in
the South is proven by his numerous choices as all-state halfback last year. His ability to boot field goals was
nothing short of wonderful as was shown by the fact that he led the state in this department of the
game. In 1926, he kicked six goals, one of them tying a game, two of them winning games, and one
of them clinching a game. With the passing of Dick Grey, Davidson loses one of the finest football players and
a uniform. A football player par excellence, a friend to everyone, and above all, a Christian man. Well might it
have been said as Dick left the gridiron for the last time, “The King is dead. Long live the King.”

‘DAVIDSON NAMES (Continued from page 1)

chosen from this group for their defensive as well as offensive powers. Childress is probably the best on offense with
Arrowood the best seen in these sections on defense. Goodwin, of State, was barely nosed out by Arrowood. Sapp, of
Carolina, and Bennett, also coming in for honorable mention. At tackle, Phelps is possibly the most outstanding man in the
state. Thompson would make an excellent mate for him both on this season’s record and during the past seasons. Morehead,
of Carolina, would be able to fit in Thompson's place were he a bit more aggressive. Culp, of Duke, and
Laws, of Davidson, are also mentioned. Nicholson, all-state choice for guard last year, is again placed on the selection by
this paper. Ferris, of Carolina, is placed with him due to the brilliant game he put up against the Wildcats.
Melton, of Davidson, was handicapped by injuries, or would have made a stronger bid for a berth than he has
done. Schuler, of Carolina, is also worthy of mention. Schwartz, of Carolina, is unquestionably the choice for center. His great
playing in all the games of the season, a veritable tower of strength in the Carolina line, he has made
his mark in North Carolina football. Grey, of Davidson, would have shown up better had he been physically able to
play in more games of the season than he did. Metts, of State, is also worthy of mention. Buie is
chosen over Cox for quarter due to the fact that he played such a brilliant game against Davidson Thanksgiving. However,
Cox showed his ability as pilot in the Wake Forest-Davidson scrap at Greensboro. Wilson, of Davidson, comes in for mention,
but his carrying ability for appreciable gains eliminates him. And here is the problem, with an array of backs such
as Grey, McDowall, Warren, Young, Buie, Nisbet, and Whisnant, any scribe might be forgiven for throwing up his hands in
dismay. McDowall is the outstanding player of the state, his play in the Davidson, Carolina, and Duke games stamping him
as the best offensive player the state has seen in many a day. He would be given the position of
captain on this selection. Someone is certain to yell when Grey is picked as his running mate. It is true
that Grey has not risen to the heights that he reached in last year’s season. But due to the fact
that he was placed on the official all-state last year and has played some excellent games this year it is
believed that he should be the man chosen. Warren, of State, is the next man in line and is probably
on a par with Grey. Young, of Carolina, is very close to the top also. Whisnant, Nisbet and Harrison deserve
honorable mention. Again we have a walkaway in the fullback position. What McDowall is to State, Jankoskie is to Duke.
His ripping line plunges have been a feature of the Duke team the entire season. Few teams have been able
to stop “Jan” for any length of time. He would fit in with the fast backs mentioned above perfectly. For
the halves when several yards are needed, for Jankoskie when a yard or so for first down or touchdown, a
quarter would have a backfield that he would not hesitate to call on any of them. Since Nisbet filled the
position of fullback on the Davidson team, he should probably be mentioned here. With a few more pounds of weight
this man could compare favorably with the Duke star. But lacking that last bit of reserve of weight he cannot
come up to him. He has played some brilliant games this season, however. Poletz, of High Point, should also be
mentioned for this position. It could be said, but with a great deal of questioning, that this team would give
a good account of itself if it was placed to play in California instead of the eleven which is to
be sent from the Southern Conference. It is a well-rounded team, a sturdy line, fast ends, a brainy quarter, a
ripping fullback and triple threat halves. But this will not save it from merciless criticism as to why so-and-so was
placed on the team rather than someone else.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE

Cafeterias are catering to you (ATLANTA Soon)

ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

Charlotte, N. C. banking needs.
Trust Department under Government. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

The Commercial National Bank
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your 4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Make
us your Executor.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
J. B. DOAR, Assistant Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

Founded 1874
supervision of United States
