THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1927

-:- Sport Talk -:- News and Views of Wildcat Events By Raymond Lake

Another tie! We'll just have to hand it to the Deacons. They certainly played a great game of football. The Wildcats were expected to take the game by at least two touchdowns, but when the fight was over, the Davidson backers were mighty glad the score was tied. It looked gloomy for a while, but the old Wildcat couldn’t stand to go off holding the wrong end of the sack, and they staged a great comeback which tied the score.

From one point of view, the result of Saturday’s game will be a great help to the Wildcats. We can’t win all the time and it's better to be tied than to be beaten, especially when being tied means a better chance to win the next game and the one after that. The Wildcats will fight harder and pull together better against the V. M. I. eleven this week after being brought down a peg by the Deacons, and also in the State game a week from Saturday. The Wolfpack trounced the Deacons several weeks ago and came out about four touchdowns ahead, and they’re going to put out all they've got on November 5th in an attempt to get that old championship title. The V. M. I. Cadets will also be fighting hard when they meet the Wildcats, but in our opinion, they won't have near as good a chance to come out ahead as they would have had if Davidson had licked the Deacons as they were expected to do. The Cadets seem to have a pretty hard situation ahead of them. They're playing the Wildcats on their home field just the week after they've been humbled quite a bit, and such a combination is hard to beat. The game this week may result in another tie, but our prediction is that the home team won't be beaten.

Demon Deacons Hold Wildcats to Fourth Tie in Exciting Battle at Greensboro Saturday

Freshmen Conquer Seniors by 1 Point

The second inter-class basketball game of the season was played on last Friday night, October 21st. The encounter was one continual thrill from the start until the final whistle. Both teams played good basketball, although the game could not be won by both teams, the Freshmen were just the lucky ones to drop in the final point. At the close of the half, the Freshmen were leading by the score similar to the final score of 21-20. Rust played outstanding ball for the Fresh squad, scoring 13 points, which was by far the highest individual score. Kugler played exceptionally good basketball for the Seniors. The line-up is as follows:

Seniors Position Freshmen
McAlister R. F. Withers
Sheppard L. F. Rust
Johnson C. Goodson
Hall R. G. Lynch
L. G.

Human hair grows at the rate of eighteen one-thousandths of an inch a day. The life of an individual hair is estimated at about six years.

Easy on the feet, Easy to look at, Easy on the Purse, and you'll keep looking at them a long time before you regret fully giving them up for a new pair.

Demons Fight Hard to Spring Another Upset

Eight Thousand Spectators See Johnny Cox Make Two Touchdowns on Wildcats

WILDCATS PLAY SLOW

The Demon Deacons of Wake Forest, led by a lone man who answers to the name of Johnny Cox, all but put the Davidson Wildcats in a cage Saturday afternoon at the World War Memorial Stadium in Greensboro when a hard-fought game ended in a 13-13 tie. This man romped through the Davidson team upon two occasions in the third quarter, and when Wildcat supporters had time to think things over, it looked like a cause that was lost. Much to the surprise of some eight thousand spectators who were expecting an easy victory for the Presbyterians, the two teams fought hard to the third draw in as many years and furthered the apparently traditional custom. But the game was replete with the usual Deacon-Wildcat spirit, grim and determined.

Wake Forest got off to a good start when they executed a pretty kick-off which was fumbled when received and the Wildcats enjoyed no return. For some time the game was extremely slow and neither team showed the expected form. After some unspirited play and no unusual gains, a quarter had dragged by in which there was nothing but disappointment to the rival rooters.

The second quarter was more lively than the first period and the Wildcats started driving in a way that began to pep up things a bit and it looked as though they were going over the coveted marker with one continuous drive. When the distance had been shortened, the Deacons looked over the congregation as though they owned the world and the anxious 'Cats bounced off their forms four times and the oval changed hands. James took the ball behind his own goal line and with a mighty punt that drifted over the head of Dick Grey, put the Presbyterians back on the offensive on their own 35-yard marker, warding off the first serious attack of the Wildcats. In this period, the Davidson team again got off to some good gains and after having put the ball on the Baptists’ 35-yard line, Grey missed an attempted field goal and again the Deacons punted back to the territory of the opponents. After the ball changed hands, the Deacons started some drive and an attempted field goal from the 35-yard line was wide, and the very draggy half was over.

Dynamite seemed to have been inserted into the shoes of Johnny Cox during the half as he received a kick-off and pulled the first spectacular play of the game as he raced around Davidson's left end and down the sideline to the first touchdown, with no one near him. The kick for extra point was good and eight thousand spectators were marveling at the speed of this little Deacon who last year.

Goodykoontz Chosen to Captain Freshman Team

Freshmen Choose Former High School Star As Captain

Dan Goodykoontz, flashy halfback for the Davidson College Freshmen, has been chosen by his teammates to captain the team during the 1927 season. Goodykoontz, who was a star for the Bluefield, West Virginia, High School, is a cousin of the redoubtable Harry Goodykoontz, former football player, and captain of the track team. He is a consistent ground gainer, beside being a dangerous broken field runner. In the Wofford game last week, he got away for two thrilling runs of 20 yards, and was one of the mainstays of the Wildkitten team throughout the game. In the latter part of the game with Wofford, he received a minor injury to his leg which, although not very serious, forced him to leave the game, and caused him to rest until Tuesday before he was able to get back into uniform. He is back now, and despite his injury, seems to be in the very best of form.condition. He has plenty of support this year on the Freshman team and is expected to lead his teammates through one of the most successful seasons in the history of Freshman football at Davidson College.

Sophomores Down Juniors, 45 to 25

Monday night the Sophomore class basketball team proved their supremacy over the Junior team to the score of 45 to 25. The Sophomores easily outclassed the Juniors. The game was very rough and there were many fouls called, as is indicated by the one-sided score. The outstanding players were Johnson, Moore, and Pritchett for the Sophs, and Gilmour for the Juniors. The second-year men used many substitutes, every man getting an opportunity to play. The line-up and individual scoring of each team follow:

Juniors (25)
Gilmour (10)
Baker (2)
Browne (2)
Warren
Miller
Crawford (9)
Mauze (2)

Sophs (45)
Pritchett (10) R. F.
Marine (4)
Johnson (14) Center
Moore (7)
McGavoch (2)
Orr (2)
Anderson (4)
Halverstalt (2)
Smith
Heefner
Calhoun
Gardner

After a brief consultation, the Wildcats decided to act and immediately went on a rampage led largely by Grey. After two first downs had been made, Dick Grey went around right end for 23 yards only to be called back for an off-side penalty. A long pass was good and the ball was on the 12-yard line of the Deacons, and from here it went over via line plays for Davidson's first score.

After the kick-off and an exchange of punts, Johnny Cox was apparently catapulted again and while fans admired the style he eluded the would-be tacklers as he received the punt he gradually was covering ground and again he went around the scarred left flank of the Wildcats and again he skipped. Grey's kick for the extra point was wide.

OPPONENTS’ SCORES
N. C. State 12
Florida 6
V. M. I. 6
Maryland 10
Navy 0
Duke 6
Wofford 7
Pres. Col. 7
Citadel 26
Newberry 0
Georgia Tech 13
Carolina 0

Davidson and Duke Harriers Run Here

The Duke team will meet the Duke team on October 29, homecoming day. This will be the first meet of the team this year and the outcome is expected to be a close one. The Duke team has been practicing for a five-mile race with Washington and Lee, and they will be in good condition for the meet with Davidson. Duke has a coach who has been devoting his entire time to their cross-country team, and the Duke team will be well trained.

The seven men to run against Duke on homecoming day were selected during the past week by a time trial on the regular three and a half mile course. These men, in the order in which they finished, are: Lafferty, Nunan, Treverton, Sloop, Jeavers, H. E. Russell, and Brownell. Goodwin came in second but will not be able to run on the cross-country team this year. The time of the first time trial was 21 minutes and 3 seconds. The men going out for the team have been working hard since the first part of September. They are keeping rigid training regulations and have been running several miles every afternoon and will be in good condition for Duke on homecoming day.

The cross-country team will meet State on November 5. State recently defeated Clemson. There will probably be other meets this fall, but, as yet, no others have been definitely decided on.

The unbelievable had happened once more. The kick for the extra point was wide, and herein lay the only apparent Davidson hope. After what looked like hopeless efforts to pass through the Baptist team, some of the fans moved toward the gate only to be arrested by the yells which arose as a pass to Kell from Grey was good, putting the ball on the 35-yard marker of the Deacons, and another, Wilson to Grey, was good for five yards and Kell made first down. With the Wake Forest backs covering the territory between Wilson and the goal, he reassumed his line plays which took the Deacons off their feet and the ball was rushed over, while Dick Grey kicked a very large single point after the touchdown.

After Wake Forest had kicked to Davidson, the game was over. Both teams were off form because of injuries and caused the game to be a little slow at times. The story could not end without giving honorable mention to Mr. Johnny Cox, the Deacon. James did some great punting, keeping the kicks well placed, and W. Weir was always down after them. For Davidson, Grey and Harrison were fastest in their gaining, and Ed Wilson's generalship could not be overlooked. Laws played an outstanding game in the line.

Line-up and Summary:
Wake Forest (13) Pos. Davidson (13)
Burroughs E Arrowood
Biel LG Beans
McConnell, T. RG Hunt
Phifer Center McConnell, R.
Denton RG Melton
Zimmerman RT Laws
Weir LG McGeachy
James FB Wilson
Hackney Grey (C)
Cox Harrison
Connelly PB Nesbit

Score by quarters:
Wake Forest 0 0 13 0—13
Davidson 0 0 6 7—13

Substitutions—Wake Forest: Lennon, Persons, and Dorsett. Davidson: Smith, Flynn, Baker, Kell. Officials: Referee, Hartsell (N. C. State); umpire, Gooch (Virginia); headlinesman, McIntosh (Mass. State); linesmen, Hendrix (Davidson), and Stallings (Wake Forest).

Come to See Us for Your Shoes, Ties, Hats, and Caps. New shipments received weekly. Come in and give us a trial. Your business always appreciated.

THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.

Shirts to careful, scientific foot-fitting with our Automatic Foot Measuring Machine. Come in and let us explain.

BIG FIVE SCORERS
Player College Td. Ex.Pt. F.G. T'tl.
Jankoski, Duke 10 0 1 62
Adams, Duke 6 0 0 36
Grey, Davidson 5 1 3 36
Cox, W. Forest 4 0 2 26
Warren, State 4 0 0 24
Goodwin, State 3 0 0 18
McDowall, State 2 0 0 12
Adams, State 2 0 0 12
Childress, State 2 0 0 12
Flynn, Davidson 2 0 0 12
Outen, State 1 0 1 7
Nesbit, Davidson 1 0 0 6
Wearn, Davidson 1 0 0 6
Harrison, Davidson 1 0 0 6
Ward, Carolina 1 0 0 6
Farrell, Carolina 1 0 0 6
Young, Carolina 1 0 0 6
Lee Lake, Duke 1 0 0 6
Lepo, State 1 0 0 6
Crum, State 1 0 0 6
Kelly, Duke 0 0 4 4
James, W. Forest 0 1 1 4
Buie, Duke 0 0 4 4
McConnell, Dav. 0 0 2 2
Sapp, Carolina 0 0 0 2
Whisnant, Carolina 0 0 1 1

*Scored safety.

When You Need Candy See Us
2628 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.