1H EDAVI Vol. XIV — DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 17, 1927 SONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON No. 22

Score of State High Schools Come Here Saturday for Mammoth Track Carnival

Silver Loving Cup to be Awarded Winner

STRONG CONTENDERS

Eastern North Carolina Entries Give Promise of Making Good Records in Meet

Almost a score of high school track teams, from varied sections of the state, will come to Davidson next Saturday afternoon to take part in the third annual track carnival. Schools that have already signified their intention of entering the meet are Gastonia, Dallas, Raleigh, Wilmington, Fayetteville, Statesville, Reidsville, Concord, Barium Springs, Asheville, Greensboro, and Salisbury. Several others are expected to be on hand when the fun begins.

Preparations for the carnival have been in progress for some time. New pits have been dug and prepared for the pole vaults, high jump, and broad jump, in addition to those now in use. Work is also being done on the track. Almost twice as many high schools as last year have already entered the meet, only seven having taken part in the second annual meet. A beautiful loving cup will be presented to the winner by the Davidson College Athletic Association, and medals and ribbons will probably be awarded to the winners of the various events. Professor Carl Wachter was the donor of the cup last year.

(Continued on page 7)

Vocational Institute is Concluded by Glasgow

Charlotte Business Man Speaks to Students Concerning Ethics and Personality in Business

“All the honors attained in scholastic work, on the athletic field, and even your college diploma will not assure you of a place in the business world,” emphatically declared Mr. Tom Glasgow, a business man of Charlotte, in speaking to a large and interested group of Davidson College students in closing the five-week vocational guidance institute here this week. “Business men do not care what you have done in college, nor a recounting of the medals you have won, but are more concerned with what you can do. Furthermore, they care not what you are, nor who you are.”

He talked to the students in terms of the business world. He cautioned against the belief that when a student completed college he could enter big business. He admonished them to consider the high school graduates who are already in business, for they have obtained a four-year start. “They cannot be ‘high-hatted’ or laughed at, since they are real competitors.”

This prominent business man stressed the power of personality and maintained that it was of greater importance than mental ability and social accomplishments. Next in importance to personality was the right attitude toward the “boss,” who is not easily fooled, or else the business will go into bankruptcy. “Business is largely buying and selling, the difference between the buying and selling price being the profit. The employer buys your services and if you sell them in a greater proportion than he paid for them, you will have a bigger chance to succeed.”

“Save money,” advised Mr. Glasgow. “Many opportunities will come to you in business for investment, and those cannot be missed.”

(Continued on page 2)

Team Chosen for Northern Debates

Don Wharton and Harlee Branch, Jr. were selected from a group of seven outstanding debaters last week to represent Davidson on the Northern debating trip. During this trip, William and Mary, Gettysburg, and Rutgers will be met in forensic encounters concerning the question, “Resolved, That the United States should cancel Inter-Allied war debts.” Gordon McCutchen was chosen as alternate for this team. Other men who entered the try-outs were: Clancy Williams, W. A. Christian, Frank Daniels, and John McKnight.

Branch and Wharton are veteran speakers, having had much experience in debating and in other forms of speaking. Both men were members of the team that met Carolina during their freshman year, and they also composed the representation from Davidson when they met Sewanee last year. Wharton won a place on the team that debated with Wake Forest in his sophomore year while Branch was the winner of the Junior Oratoricals last Easter.

These men will meet William and Mary College at Williamsburg, Va. on April 1; Gettysburg College at Gettysburg, Penn., April 4; and Rutgers College on April 7 at New Brunswick, N. J. In each debate, Davidson will uphold the negative side of the question.

Wharton announces that the try-outs for the Sewanee debate will be held on March 22. The query is, “Resolved, That the Volstead Act should be repealed.” Davidson will defend the negative but either side may be chosen for the try-outs. Sewanee will come here sometime after Junior Speaking.

(Continued on page 8)

Meritorious Performance of Converse Glee Club Applauded by Students

Dancing and Singing Combined in Appreciated Program

MISS DUPREE STARS

Delightful Humor Aided by Pulchritude of Members Contributed to Excellent Program

The Converse Glee Club appeared here on the whole. The program presented was one of the outstanding and best received of any performance here at Davidson in months. Excellent chorus work, well-trained dancers, and delightful humor aided by the pulchritude of the members all contributed to the excellent program. Much could be said of the rendering of the various selections by the chorus, since all of the songs presented were much above the average girls’ glee club. The faultless precision exhibited by each member of the club was especially noticeable, as was the unusual knowledge of the technique of the music combined with the ability to render songs most charmingly.

Glenn Crowder, director of the club, was a feature as a soloist. Several familiar ballads were given by him. Exclusive of the chorus work, all of the high spots of the program were included in the second part. Features of this section were the “Bell Hop Chorus,” “The Queen,” and others.

(Continued on page 7)

Gils Scene of Fresh Revelry Tuesday

Entire Class Assembles as Guests of Charlotte Chamber of Commerce — Entertaining Program

Glee Club Leaves On Southern Trip

Continuing its tour from North Carolina, the Davidson Glee Club will appear at Converse College, Spartanburg, on the night of March 19. On their way back, they will give a concert at Gastonia, N. C. under the auspices of the High School. Successful trips have already been made to Charlotte, Greensboro, Winston-Salem, and Lincolnton, in each of which places the audience has been large and well pleased with the performance.

The entire club, consisting of the chorus, quartet, symphony orchestra, and jazz orchestra, will in all probability leave immediately after Chapel in busses as before and will arrive in Spartanburg sometime during the afternoon. The entertainment will be given that night under the auspices of the Sophomore class, which is bringing the club to Converse.

The weekend will be spent in Spartanburg, and on Monday morning the club will start on the return trip, stopping Monday night at Gastonia to give a concert at the Gastonia High School, which has been arranged largely through the endeavors of J. E. Cossell, the superintendent of schools, and Pat Crawford and Fred Smith, old Davidson men. The trip back to Davidson will be made immediately after the concert.

The program will be much the same as those given on previous occasions and is as follows: “College Ties,”glee club symphony or- (Continued on page 3)

Almost two hundred members of the Freshman class gathered at the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce last Tuesday night at a banquet tendered in their honor by the Charlotte organization. A mirthful and delightful program was successfully carried through under the direction of the members of the class. Alan Frew, president of the class, acted as toastmaster and ably did the honors. Mr. Kuester, president of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, played the part of host for that organization. The ceremonies were initiated by a short invocation and address of welcome by Dr. Clarence Luther, at the close of which the banquet was served.

Pinkney, Christian, and Lincoln, as student guests, made short talks intermixed with humor, following which Frew, Long, DeArmond, Reynolds, Christian, and Matthews spoke on behalf of the class. Jim Appleby, “Y” Secretary, and Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, also took the floor for a few moments. Following these talks, Mr. Kuester spoke, urging the members of the class to take advantage of the opportunities which were theirs as Freshmen. Mr. David Ovens, manager of Ivey’s department store, was the chief speaker of the evening. In a humorous but decisive manner, he showed that Davidson was probably not the best college in the world but that it was among the best, and that the class must uphold the standard set by their predecessors. As the closing talks Professor Fore- (Continued on page 3)

in concert last Friday night before a large crowd of interested and enthused students,

WOOD IS ELECTED PRESIDENT OF THE STL

THE CAMELEON

Material for the last edition of the Chameleon must be in by March the twenty-first. Mac Austin urges everyone who has material for this issue to have it in before that date if possible. Essays should be turned over to Don Wharton, fiction to Warren Ogden, verse to Jim Caligan, and reviews to Jimmy Wharton.

McGee is Elected New Cheer Leader

McGee has been selected by the Davidson student body as cheer leader for the coming school year, 1927-1928, winning over Julian Lake for this position. During the past year, each of these men had done a great deal of creditable work as junior assistant to Bill Story, varsity cheer leader for this year. This is a very responsible position and entails a large amount of work on the part of the holder, such as providing a place for the student body when games are played outside Davidson; getting students admission at these games; making satisfactory arrangements for transportation; and above all, keeping the spirit of the whole student body up to the highest pitch. Junior class members will be elected by the student body for the purpose of assisting the senior leader in the cheering, and incidentally to work up to the senior position next year. Any member of the Junior class is eligible to go out for this office. The assistants for next year have not been elected but this will be done at an early date. Spike McGee has taken an active part in the student body activities, being a member of the Court of Control and having a part in the management of the Student Store. He is also a member of the Pyramid Club.

Sophs Victors in Inter-Class Meet

In the annual interclass track meet held Saturday, the Sophomores came winning over the Freshmen by one point. The final scores were as follows: Seniors 27; Juniors 48; Sophomores 59; and Freshmen 58. None of the races were made in unusually short time, but some very good form was shown by several of those taking part in the meet. Kell, of the sophomore class, showed unusual ability, winning three of the thirteen prizes offered for those winning first places. The prizes offered and the various winners with their time follows:

100 yd. dash—Won by Kell, 10 3-5 seconds—Knife for watch chain given by Henderson.
220 yd. dash—Won by Kell, 24 1-2 seconds—Two pound box of candy given by White Drug Co.
440 yd. run—Won by Brehard, 56 1-10 seconds—Two weeks pass to picture show given by Stough Brothers.
880 yd. run—Won by Stigler—Car admission to Charlotte given by Ben Beal.
1 mile run—Won by Treverton, 5 minutes, 9 1-2 seconds—U-drive-it to Charlotte given by Henderson.
220 low hurdles—Won by Frye, 29 4-5 seconds—Manhattan Shirt given by Globe Clothing Co.
120 high hurdles—Won by Brown, 20 7-10 seconds—Knife for watch chain given by Henderson.

(Continued on page 6)

Kell and King Chosen as Two Vice-Presidents

OUTCOME UNCERTAIN

Vote for Secretary and Treasurer Goes to Third Ballot—Two Candidates Eliminated

In one of the most closely contested races in the history of the Davidson student body, Hugh Arrowood, of Shelby, was elected president of that organization last Tuesday morning. Bob Kell and Mac Wing were selected as vice-presidents, while the vote for secretary and treasurer went to a third ballot Wednesday morning. Arrowood won over Olin Nesbit by a small majority after Lynn McLain and Boyce Martin had been eliminated from the race on the initial ballot. Monday morning the preliminaries for the three offices of the student body were run off. In this ballot, Nisbet and Arrowood were the two nominees for the presidency, receiving the highest number of votes, therefore automatically becoming the candidates for the final race. Bob Kell was the only one of the nominees for any of the offices who received a majority of the votes cast in the preliminaries. On the first ballot, he was elected one of the vice-presidents for the ensuing year, the election of the second vice-president being held Tuesday morning, with Bob Covington, Mac King, and Ed Wilson running. For the office of secretary-treasurer, Dick Reynolds, Zeb Long, and Alan Frew were chosen from the list of nominees to run in the final race Tuesday. The nominations made by the student council for the various offices were: for president, Boyce Martin, Mutt Nisbet, Hugh Arrowood, and Lynn McClain; for vice-president, Bob Kell, Ed Wilson, Bob Covington, and Mac Wing; for secretary-treasurer, Alan Frew, Dick Reynolds, and Zeb Long.

(Continued on page 8)

Students and Alumni to Gather Here Thursday for Second Athletic Night

Football Captain and Norris Trophy Winner to be Announced in Exercises After Banquet

Coach Monte Younger, head instructor of athletic teams of Davidson College, announces that the football captain for the 1927 Wildcat team will in all likelihood be announced at the exercises here Thursday night, March 17th, when “Athletic Night” will be observed following a banquet to be given the state gridiron champions by the faculty of Davidson. The captain has not yet been chosen, but it is expected that the letter men will select him at a meeting prior to Thursday night. The banquet will be given at the Maxwell Chambers hotel at 7:30 o'clock, and following its conclusion, the entire body will adjourn to Shearer Hall, where the program is expected to begin promptly at 8:30 o'clock. It is as follows:

Overture by Davidson College Orchestra.
Singing of “College Ties” by the assemblage.
Talk by Major Hames, of Charlotte.
Awarding of gold footballs by Dr. J. M. McConnell.
Selection by orchestra.
Talk (speaker not yet announced)
Award of football, wrestling, basketball, and cheer leader certificates by Prof. A. Currie.
Selection by orchestra.
Award of Schiffman trophy by a rep-

(Continued on page 2)