‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1927

|-- Sport Talk -:- News and Views of Wildcat Events By Raymond Lake

Another defeat! After a long series of victories, it’s pretty hard to come back down to earth again, so to
speak, and suffer two defeats in a row. The Wildcats, however, have proven the saying that they are as great
in defeat as in victory. The two defeats are bound to make them feel discouraged, but instead of letting their
discouragement get the best of them, they’re at it hard again this week determined to make a comeback against the
Tar Heels Saturday.

The game with the Wolfpack last Saturday, of course, ends the Wildcats’ chances for the State Championship, but does not
in any way make the game with Carolina any less important. We still have a chance for third place, and
if the result of the game Saturday is in our favor, we will be sure of either third or fourth
place. The Tar Heels, however, will be fighting with just as much at stake as the Wildcats, and will put
out all they’ve got to win that game.

In the game with State last Saturday, the outstanding players for the Wolfpack were McDowall and Warren. The latter was
one of the best backfield men with whom the Wildcats have come in contact in quite a while. He plowed
through the Davidson line one time after another, and then when he was caught, it would take two or three
to pull him down. McDowall was fast and made several long gains, but the one who gained more through the
line was Warren. McDowall gained more around ends, on passes, punts, etc. Goodwin, end for State, was unusually good on
the passes and scored 19 of the 25 points for State.

For the Wildcats, Harrison was probably the outstanding star. He made probably the prettiest run for the Wildcats, and made
short gains all through the game. Dick Grey made several good gains, but seemed not to be able to get
loose quite as much as he usually does. The State linemen played a good game, and were through and on
the Davidson backs before they could get under way. The loss of Johnny Melton when he hurt his shoulder again
was about the greatest loss the line could have suffered, and was very noticeable when he was taken out of
the game.

The Wildkittens also suffered a defeat last week. The Blue Imps of Duke University were too much for them, and,
although the Wildkittens put up a good fight, they were beaten by a score of 19 to 0. According to
the write-ups, McCall, Pope, and Goodykoontz played an unusually good game. These three men have been working mighty well together
in the first three games on the Wildkittens’ schedule, and look good for varsity material next year. The Freshmen have
only one more game on their schedule, and have been working hard to get in shape for the affair. They
have won one game and lost two so far, and much depends on the outcome of the next game.

The Carolina-V. M. I. game last Saturday was of interest to the Davidson backers as well as to the backers
of the two schools.

Wildcat Harriers Lose to State College Stars

Finding itself pitted against the classiest running outfit in the state, the Davidson cross-country team was decisively defeated last Saturday
over the Greensboro course, by the score of 30-53. By the system of scoring used, low score was the winning
score. A glance at the figures will show just what brand of running the Davidson men were called upon to
face. The winning time for the three and a half mile course was 17 minutes and a few seconds. This
is considerably faster running than the Davidson two-mile record set by Clement Penn in 1925 of 10 minutes and 25
seconds. The Greensboro course is much faster than the one here, although in places it becomes very rough. It has
a fast home stretch, whereas the one at Davidson ends with a long uphill pull before the finish line is
reached.

Although they were beaten, the Davidson runners turned in excellent runs that would have won for them against other competition.
Each man cut from one to two minutes off his fastest time, yet the best Davidson man, “Rut” Nunan, placed
seventh in the race. Anything under 20 minutes is considered good time for this distance, and Davidson had four men
to come in within that time. “Rut” Nunan, Lafferty, Thrower, Beavers, and Wilkinson, finished in the order named. The start
was made from the Memorial Stadium during the second quarter of the Davidson-State football game, and the runners began to
appear just before the whistle blew for the end of the first half. The State runners scored the lowest score
possible by having the first five men join hands and finish in a tie for first place.

This meet closes the cross-country season for this year. All the members of the squad are new men and the
prospects for Davidson to produce a real cross-country team are bright. Most of the members of the squad have three
years ahead, and with good time records in their first attempt to run this race, the additional experience of the
two years’ training should make them predominate in this sport before they graduate.

Three Conference Teams Undefeated

Since Saturday’s games only three teams can boast records which display no conference defeats or ties. They are Georgia, N.
C. State, and Tennessee. Georgia Tech and Vanderbilt each have a tie against them, although neither has been defeated by
a conference team. Virginia, after losing three conference games and winning two, bucked up and furnished the biggest upset of
the week in the conference by defeating W. L., spoiling a perfect record of the latter. Ole Miss slung another
upset into the conference by defeating L. S. U. 12 to 0. After giving Alabama a good scare, Kentucky lost
by the score of 21 to 7.

Standing of Southern Conference teams as

D. C. Freshmen Lose to Blue Devil Freshmen in Hotly Contested Affair

Blue Imps Make 19 Points to Wildkittens 0

GAME HOTLY FOUGHT

McCall, Goodykoontz, and Pope Show Good Form and Lead Wildkittens’ Attack

In a battle waged back and forth but with the advantage going to Duke, the Wildkittens were defeated by the
Blue Imps on Hanes Field, at Durham, Friday, November 4th. The Duke Fresh outfit, scoring in each period except the
last, attained a total of 19 points, while the Davidson Fresh were not able to counterbalance the scoring.

Although the Wildkittens went down to defeat, they presented to the crowd of 2,000 three of the best Fresh backs
that have been seen in action on Hanes Field, in the person of Goodykoontz, Pope and McCall. These three swift
backs sawed, bucked and crisscrossed their way down the field to Duke’s goal, only to be stopped as the Imps
tightened their defense before the goal line. Staton, Haines, Murray and Rosky were the stellar men of Duke’s attack. Staton,
quick quarter, continued his brilliant playing, making several nice runs and crossing the line twice for touchdowns. Murray, all-state prep
fullback of last year, intercepted a pass from McCall and raced 55 yards for a touchdown.

Davidson attempted nine and completed four passes, the Imps completing three out of eight attempted passes. The Davidson team had
the edge on the Duke men in first downs, making six to their opponents’ four.

The line-up:

Davidson Position Duke
Proctor LE Hayes
Marrow LT Taylor
Brock LG Carpenter
Macon Center Rupp
Foil RG Adkins
Covington RT Rosky
Johnson RE Rosky
Goodykoontz QB Staton
Pope LH Haynes
David RH Murray
Fraley FB Gobbel

Another Delt—“I see that you are raising a mustache, Bill.”
Bill—“Who told you so?”—Iowa Frivol.

Most of the girls now have impromptu complexions. They make them up as they go along.—Wesleyan Wasp.

Judge—“How can you prove your innocence?”
Prisoner—“Give me time.”
Judge—“Ten years,” — Pennsylvania Punch Bowl.

Tar Heels and Wildcats to Meet at Chapel Hill

Carolina Has Won Only One Game This Year When theTar Heels and Wildcats meet each other in their annual clash
at Chapel Hill Saturday, it will be with the same spirit of fight that has always characterized this particular game.
Although the Wildcats have been literally eliminated from the race for State Championship honors, they have returned to practice determined
to muddle up things a bit and not be content with a cellar position. If the Wildcats carry out this
determination by winning from Carolina and Duke, then they will have accomplished their purpose. So far this year Carolina has
played seven games, winning only one game by a one-point victory from Maryland. The Tar Heels have lost to Wake
Forest, V. M. I., N. C. State, Ga. Tech, S. C. Univ., and U. of Tenn. A review of her
opponents shows that she has met some of the strongest teams in the Southern Conference, and did well to hold
them to such close scores; the highest score made on them was 26 points by Tenn. Carolina has run up
a total of 26 points as against 45 for her opponents. On the other hand, the Wildcats have played seven
games, won four, tied one, and lost two. The scores show that the highest score made on Davidson was 25
points by State. The Wildcats have scored 75 points as against 60 by opposing teams, though the Wildcats have not
met as many strong teams as Carolina has. Duke and State will battle Friday at Durham for first and second
places in the realm of state honors. It appears that Wake Forest has already cinched third place, so that leaves
Davidson and Carolina to fight it out for fourth place. The following are the scores for the Carolina team this
season:

OPPONENTS’ SCORES
Furman ------- 53
W. Forest ----- 0
V. M. I. ------- 7
Carolina ------ 0
Georgia ------- 28
Florida ------- 0
Clemson ------ 13
Citadel -------- 0

Sophomores Beat Seniors, 25 to 15

In the first game of the second round of the inter-class basketball tournament, the Sophomores continued their triumphal march toward
the title by defeating the Seniors 25 to 15 Monday night. So far, the Sophomores have defeated every class at
least once and have won from the Seniors twice. In view of this fact, it seems as if the Sophomores
have practically cinched the title. In the game Monday night, the final outcome was never in doubt. The Sophomores started
scoring early in the game and were never headed by the Seniors. When it became evident that the Sophomores were
destined to win, they ran in substitute after substitute until a whole new team was on the floor. D. K.
Miller started for the Sophomores. Substituting for Mauze, he ran up a total of eight points, being eclipsed in the
race for high point honors only by Pritchett, who ran up a score of ten points. Kugler played the best
game for the Seniors. He was the third high point man of the game, making a total of seven points.
The line-up was as follows:

Seniors
Johnson, H. (4) ---------- Pritchett (10)
Forward
Withers (4) ------------------ Moore (0)
Forward
Shaw (0) ---------- Johnston, F. W. (4)
Center
Kugler (7) ------------------ Baker (0)
Guard
Halls (0) ------------------ Mauze (2)
Guard

Substitutions: Seniors, Murchison for Johnson; Sophomores, Smith for Pritchett, Orr for Moore, Gardner for Johnson, Halverstadt (2) for Baker, Miller
(8) for Mauze, and Heffner (1) for Pritchett.

Carolina has run up a total of 26 points as against 45 for her opponents. On the other hand, the
Wildcats have played seven games, won four, tied one, and lost two. The scores show that the highest score made
on Davidson was 25 points by State. The Wildcats have scored 75 points as against 60 by opposing teams, though
the Wildcats have not met as many strong teams as Carolina has. Duke and State will battle Friday at Durham
for first and second places in the realm of state honors. It appears that Wake Forest has already cinched third
place, so that leaves Davidson and Carolina to fight it out for fourth place. The following are the scores for
the Carolina team this season:

OPPONENTS’ SCORES
Furman ------- 53
W. Forest ----- 0
V. M. I. ------- 7
Carolina ------ 0
Georgia ------- 28
Florida ------- 0
Clemson ------ 13
Citadel -------- 0

Sophomores Beat Seniors, 25 to 15

In the first game of the second round of the inter-class basketball tournament, the Sophomores continued their triumphal march toward
the title by defeating the Seniors 25 to 15 Monday night. So far, the Sophomores have defeated every class at
least once and have won from the Seniors twice. In view of this fact, it seems as if the Sophomores
have practically cinched the title. In the game Monday night, the final outcome was never in doubt. The Sophomores started
scoring early in the game and were never headed by the Seniors. When it became evident that the Sophomores were
destined to win, they ran in substitute after substitute until a whole new team was on the floor. D. K.
Miller started for the Sophomores. Substituting for Mauze, he ran up a total of eight points, being eclipsed in the
race for high point honors only by Pritchett, who ran up a score of ten points. Kugler played the best
game for the Seniors. He was the third high point man of the game, making a total of seven points.
The line-up was as follows:

Seniors
Johnson, H. (4) ---------- Pritchett (10)
Forward
Withers (4) ------------------ Moore (0)
Forward
Shaw (0) ---------- Johnston, F. W. (4)
Center
Kugler (7) ------------------ Baker (0)
Guard
Halls (0) ------------------ Mauze (2)
Guard

Substitutions: Seniors, Murchison for Johnson; Sophomores, Smith for Pritchett, Orr for Moore, Gardner for Johnson, Halverstadt (2) for Baker, Miller
(8) for Mauze, and Heffner (1) for Pritchett.

As you walk down the Avenue, think of the shoes that pound hard sidewalks all day long! No wonder many
men think first of sturdiness and often neglect the appearance of their feet. Did they but know it—a Bates Eight
would give them all the service and all the sturdiness—and smart style besides. You can be proud of your footwear
if you wear the Bates Eight. Fifth Avenue boasts no models more authentically correct. For use just now—we suggest a
medium weight oxford showing the newest fall styles! And you can be sure of an accurate, careful foot-fitting service with
our new Bates Eight.

Featured exclusively in our Shoe Department

EFIRD'S
