THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1927

NUMBER OF FAMOUS MEN TO SPEAK HERE DURING SPRING

A college president, an ex-Secretary of State of the United States, two prominent men in affairs of the state and
outstanding lawyers, a noted bishop in the Episcopal Church, and several other prominent men are scheduled to appear before the
Davidson College students this spring at “Y” vesper services on Sunday afternoons. This announcement follows in line with the general
program of expansion adopted by the officers of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. this year.

Dr. R. C. Grier, president of Erskine College at Due West, S. C., will speak on March 13. Dr. Grier
has the distinction of being one of the youngest college presidents in the United States, being only 35 years old.
Dr. L. W. Jarman, head of the Mathematics Department of Chicora College, at Columbia, S. C., will come to Davidson
on March 20. Bishop Edwin A. Penick, of the North Carolina diocese of the Episcopal Church, will address the students
on March 26, while Harry Comer, general secretary of the State of North Carolina, and also of the Y. M.
C. A. of the University of North Carolina, will be here April 3.

Hon. Josephus Daniels, Secretary of State during the administration of the late Woodrow Wilson, and present owner and publisher of
the Raleigh News and Observer, will probably be here during Junior Week. Hon. O. Max Gardner, of Shelby, and Hon.
Clyde Hoey, also of Shelby, both eminent lawyers of North Carolina, will speak at Davidson sometime in April and May,
dates remaining unsettled. These last will either speak at “Y” vespers or under the auspices of the Vocational Guidance Institute,
one of them taking up the profession of law as a result in after life, and the other making a
talk at the regular vesper service. Dr. J. R. McCain, president of Agnes Scott College, may be here sometime during
the spring.

I. R. C. HOLDS CONVENTION

(Continued from page 1)

is among the leaders in contributions to The Chameleon. Dillard is a member of the Red and Black Masques and
of the Reporters’ Club. Last year Davidson was represented at this convention by W. A. Christian and R. B. Parker.
Parker was chosen vice-president of the organization.

Alumni Meet to Organize Association

Twelve Classes Represented—Doctor Whaling is Toastmaster

The Louisville Alumni of Davidson College, at a banquet held on February 17th, at the Kentucky Hotel, Louisville, organized themselves
into an Alumni Association. There are 19 alumni in the city, three-fourths of whom were present, some accompanied by home-fires,
and otherwise. The evening was characterized by hilarious memories and inspiring tributes to the beloved Alma Mater.

A half-century of Davidson life was represented in those gathered for the banquet, Dr. Thornton Whaling being of the class
of '77, and Donald Stewart of the class of '24 and '25 having four each. Twelve separate classes were represented,
thus indicative of the wide influence of Davidson in the past. At present, it is the farthest west of any
of the college’s alumni associations and is thus prophetic of and aims to be instrumental in the further extension and
strengthening of the influence of Davidson.

Dr. Thornton Whaling, of the Louisville Seminary, one of Davidson's most illustrious sons, presided over the banquet as toastmaster and
by his ready and versatile wit kept the gathering at a high pitch of merriment and enthusiasm. Stories were in
order from the first, as member after member was called upon to relate his most memorable experience. Dr. Whaling began
with the story of Woodrow Wilson, his classmate, engaged in teaching Watt's Catechism to a class of little negroes. The
question was, “What are you by nature?” and the proper answer, “I am by nature a child of Satan and
an heir of hell.” One little black boy declined to accept this classification for himself and insisted: “No Tain’t: I’se
ole Thuselah’s chile. Dat's who I is.” Thuselah was one of the college janitors and possessed a numerous posterity.

Other stories related to the mysteries of the four columns of old Chambers, the Catawba River, midnight raids, alarm clocks
and electric wires in chapel, and the glorious days of hazing (?). On the other hand, glowing tributes to the
college, its influence, character, and spirit were paid. The old Wildcat spirit was much in evidence itself. Great interest was
shown in the progress of plans for the completion of the new Chambers building.

At the business meeting, the Alumni Association was formed. The officers elected were: President, Dr. Thornton Whaling, '77; vice-president, R.
M. Pegram, '11; secretary and treasurer, Mr. R. Graham White, '25; and executive committee: the officers and Dr. J. Walker
Moore, '06; Rev. J. T. Gillespie, '16; and Staley, '25. Other members of the association were present at the banquet.

“Y” Notes

The next vocation under the Guidance Institute will be that of the ministry, and the leader of the discussion will
be Dr. A. S. theFirst Presbyterian Charlotte. This well-known preacher will handle his subject in a very creditable manner and
will be a great help and source of information to those who are present. Rev. Johnson, pastor of the Church,
will close the round of speeches.

At the close of the speeches, the committee, including Mr. T. F. WRSAIRE, Rev. R. M. Cochrane, and others, will
provide updates from the foreign fields. More details will be shared later.

Capt. C. Hodgin, '24; Rev. C. S. Matthews, '95; W. B. Penick, '88; C. B. Sanders, and others will be
present. Just to keep it in mind—Dr. E. G. Gammon (M.D.), '22, and Rev. L. A. Taylor, '22, will be
here for the spring meetings, starting the first Sunday in April and continuing for four days. It promises to be
a great series of services led by a great man.

The association has started regular services every Sunday night at 7:00 o'clock at the Mill Chapel, and it is hoped
to involve as many students as possible in this new work. Seven alumni who are students in the Presbyterian Seminary
will be in full force and add much to the festivity of the occasion. They are: A. D. McArn, '20;
V. Brown, '25; A. C. Wildman, '24; A. N. Moffett, '25; A. M. Martin, '26; and D. H. Stewart, '26.
A picture of this influential friend of Davidson in Kentucky is shown on another page of this Davidsonian.

FLORIDA ALUMNI PLAN TRIP

The Davidson College Alumni in Florida are greatly interested in the football game between the University of Florida and Davidson
next October, as indicated in reports from one city in the "Land of Sunshine." Although the game is eight months
away, alumni of one city have already started working on the plan of reserving a section. It seems as if
Davidson will have its rooters that day. All that is needed to complete the unique arrangements would be a microphone
on the field and a capable radio-receiving set at Davidson.

LONDON TOWN CLOTHES

The best-looking and most satisfactory clothes made are available at Tate Brown Co. Spring showing at Davidson on March 3.
University men have told us that Burley, the choicest pipe tobacco, is available at popular prices. The half-pound vacuum tin
is forty-five cents, and the foil-pouch package, sealed in glassine, is ten cents. Granger Rough Cut is made by the
Wellman’s way and is breaking all collegiate records for pipe popularity.

Respond promptly if the secretary calls on you to do your part in this important work. Deputations are being arranged
and will be sent out in the next few days. As announced before, the “Y” service on Sunday will be
the last student service of the year, and a fine meeting is being planned. The “Y” wants every Davidson man
to be at this service and take as much part as he can. This is going to be your service,
and the “Y” is depending on you and inviting you to help by attending. By doing so, you will be
benefited and helped, while at the same time advancing the work of the Master. Can we not depend on you?

If you don't regularly attend Morning Watch, you are missing a wonderful opportunity to live and grow closer to the
Master. There is one conducted near you on your floor, so why not take advantage of it? Don't delay in
starting a regular habit of attending these short services that start the day so well.

John Melton has taken over part of the boys’ work and will begin immediately in the various activities of that
phase of work.

Granger Rough Cut is made for pipes only!
