JUNIOR WEEK ISSUE A BETTER DAVIDSON | Vol. XIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 14, 1927 No. 26

GALA FESTIVITIES AND “PULCHRITUDE” FEATURE HOLIDAYS

Eleven Campus Leaders Tapped By Local Circle Of Omicron Delta Kappa

Dr. H. L. Smith to Speak at Initiation April 26th

ALUMNI HONORED

Four Seniors and Seven Juniors Bid by Leadership Fraternity

Eleven students were publicly elected to membership in the Davidson chapter of the Omicron Delta Kappa national leadership fraternity Thursday morning in the semi-annual Tap-Day of the organization on the local campus. Appropriate exercises marked the pledging of the eleven students, all of whom have distinguished themselves in campus activities during the past three years. Of the eleven men tapped, four were members of the present Senior class and seven were members of the present Junior class. The newly elected members include G. Sims, R. L. Lincoln, J. C. Bernhardt, and V. S. Broyles, members of the present Senior class; Hugh Arrowood, W. O. Nisbet, B. F. Martin, Charlie McRae, Caldwell W. L. Lingle, Jr., and Dick Grey, Junior class.

Prof. E. J. Erwin, of the English department, brings the total membership of the local active chapter to twenty. Students who have been previously elected to membership in the local chapter include: J. F. Pinkney, W. A. Christian, Harllee Branch, Jr., J. I. McConnell, E. F. Bohannon, Heber McIlwaine, H. G. Goodykoontz, L. D. Wharton, W. T. Covington, H. M. Arthur, and T. F. Anderson. The Tap-Day exercises, at which announcement was made of the election of the eleven new student-members, and nine alumni members, was held in Shearer Hall following the regular morning prayers. President W. T. Covington presided at the meeting, which was opened with a brief talk by Mr. F. L. Jackson, “Purpose and Ideals of Omicron Delta Kappa.”

(Continued on page 11)

Military Inspection is Gratifying to Officials

R. O. T. C. Officers and Faculty Members Pleased With Results

That the recent Government inspection of the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit was an outstanding success in every way is the opinion expressed by the heads of the local unit and two representative members of the faculty. “The battalion did so much better than it was thought it could do that the Military Department will have to be gratified whether Distinguished Rating is granted or not,” was the exultant remark of Capt. George Weems, P. M. S. and T. of the Davidson department. Speaking for that department, he continued: “Every one of us was very highly pleased with the classroom work and drill work on that day. Of the Freshman class, Captain Daugherity reports that practically every question asked by Colonel Bowen was answered correctly by members of the Freshman sections undergoing the quiz. The Sophomore section did exceptionally well. Captain Gallagher, who inspected this section, was also pleased.”

(Continued on page 6)

Junior Publication

Caldwell Withers, editor of Sanity Rare, announces that it has been completed and will be off the press in time for distribution at the Junior Carnival Saturday night. The magazine is said to include many interesting and unusual features. The cover design this year is particularly striking. It is on golden-rod paper, in two colors besides the conventional black and white. It was drawn by Glenn Fry, and is of the Sophomore class, and is said to be in keeping with the usual high tone of his work. Besides the staff several members of the student body are included among the contributors. James H. Caligan, Davidson's poet laureate, and Warren Ogden, are among the number. Others are Bob Covington, Brown McQueen, Bill McCuen, and “Pine Ellas.” The only outsider is “Miss M. B.,” a fair unknown of Sweetbriar College.

This is the third annual issue of Sanity Rare, the first having been put out by the class of ’26, in the spring of 1925. The editor of that number, Fred Smith, suggested that the humorous magazine printed each year by the Junior class be made permanent, to furnish a basis for the establishment of a regular humorous magazine. The class of ’27 fell in with the idea, and the second number was published last year, the editor being Harllee Branch, and this year’s Junior class is following the example set by its two predecessors. Before 1925 the name and style had been changed each year.

(Continued on page 7)

Board of Control Members Elected

In the election of members of the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control, Prof. J. P. Williams was elected as faculty member, W. L. Lingle as Senior member, and Kell and Gilmore as Junior members. The men nominated for the first election were: Faculty member: F. K. Fleagle, J. P. Williams, and S. C. Lyon; for Senior member: W. L. Lingle, W. R. Grey, and W. L. McColgan; for Junior member: R. E. Kell, Monroe Gilmore, W. H. Bailey, S. Y. Brown, and H. Mauzy. Those who were eliminated by the first ballot were: Professor Lyon, McColgan, Brown, and Mauzy. The first election was held on Thursday and the second and final election was held on Friday of last week.

The faculty members of the Board of Control serve for three years, and the Junior members serve through their Senior year. One member is also elected from the rising Senior class. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and Prof. F. L. Jackson are on the board and will serve through next year. Julian Lake and Camper O'Neal were elected last year and will serve through next year.

The functions of the Board are to supervise and aid in the handling of the treasury, to check the annual budget, to look after the income and expenses of the “Y” in general, to supervise the moving picture shows at the Gym, to consider the problems of the “Y” and give advice to its officers, and to further the progress of the “Y” and serve it in any way possible. The Board has a great deal of responsibility and is a very important part of the Y. M. C. A. government.

(Continued on page 6)

Lengthy Northern Tour

Debaters Defeat William and Mary and Rutgers College

LONGEST DEBATE TRIP

Branch and Wharton Represent Davidson on Most Extensive Tour in History of College

After splitting fifty-fifty on a four-debate schedule, veteran Davidson debaters Harllee Branch and Don Wharton returned to college last Saturday afternoon from one of the most extensive tours in the history of Davidson College. The tour, which carried the two debaters as far north as New Jersey, included debates with William and Mary College, Rutgers College, Gettysburg College, and Moravian College of Bethlehem, Pa.

The first of the four debates was held in the Phi Beta Kappa Hall at Williamsburg on the evening of April 1st, and the Davidson debaters won a two-to-one decision from the William and Mary team, composed of W. H. Elliott, Jr. and M. C. Andrews. The two William and Mary debaters upheld the affirmative side of the query “Resolved: That the United States should cancel its inter-allied war debts.” Both Elliott and Andrewswere experienced debaters and had represented William and Mary in numerous forensic contests, their list of victories including a win against the Oxford debating team last fall. Following Davidson and William, both debaters continued to Williamsburg due to the cancellation of the debate. On Monday evening, Davidson and Wharton lost to A. J. Thomas of Gettysburg, Pa. The debate was held in the Gettysburg Y.M.C.A. auditorium and was attended by a small crowd. The small audience was believed to be due to the fact that the debate had been argued on nine previous occasions, and practically all of the Gettysburg students had attended these former exercises. At Gettysburg, the Davidson debaters changed to the affirmative side of the query and argued the war debts question. On April 5th, Branch G. Wiles and W. J. Wharton lost to A. J. Thomas of Gettysburg College in a two-to-one decision.

JUNIOR WEEK PROGRAM

Friday, April 15th
10:30 A.M.—Junior Oratorical Contest.
8:00 P.M.—Glee Club at Shearer Hall.

Saturday, April 16th
8:00 P.M.—Junior Night at the Gym.

Sunday, April 17th
11:15—Special Sermon at the Church.
6:15—Special “Y” Service.

Monday, April 18th
11:00 A.M.—Charlotte.
3:00 P.M.—Baseball Game, Davidson vs. Carolina, at Salisbury.
10:00 P.M.—Charlotte.

Tuesday, April 19th
2:30 P.M.—Freshman Baseball game.
7:30 P.M.—Picture Show at the Gym.

Issued on Saturday

Two Contests While On

Davidson Debaters Win

Hancock Announces New Annual Staff

D. W. Hancock, editor-elect of the 1928 Quips and Cranks, and C. L. Rowe, business manager, announced the personnel of the new Annual Staff, consisting of the three upper classes. This announcement has been awaited with interest by the student body since the completion of the recent election of the editor by the Junior Class. The staff for the new year is as follows:

Editor-in-Chief: F.C. Withers
Feature Editor: W.L. Lingle
Associate Editor: A.Y. Dillard
Associate Editor: J.M. Murchison
Photograph Editor: R.C. Platt
Art Editor: G.A. Lyles
Contributing Editor: M.C. Gilmore
Contributing Editor: R. Gilmartin
Contributing Editor: R. C. Covington
Contributing Editor: L.C. Wadsworth
Chief Typist: O.S. Garrison
Advertising Manager: V.J. Guthery
Assistant Adv. Mgr.: Nelson Myers
Assistant Adv. Mgr.: Sam Smith
Assistant Adv. Mgr.: W.J. Caldwell
Assistant Adv. Mgr.: W.L. Dumas
Assistant Adv. Mgr.: J.P. McBryde
Subscription Manager: S.G. Granville
Asst. Subscription Mgr.: C.J. Albright

This staff has one advantage over most of those in the past in that nearly every member of it has had practical experience in Annual work, and many have done other types of writing as well. Caldwell Withers, Literary Editor, is the retiring Sports Editor of the Davidsonian, and has been a contributor to the Rare Sanity.

Wharton Selected Chameleon Editor

J.G. Wharton was elected editor of the Chameleon on Monday morning by a vote of 191 to 163. I.C. Withers, the other candidate, was eliminated by a technicality. Wharton has been on the Chameleon staff for two years and has contributed a number of articles to every college publication on the hill. He probably has a more distinctive and original style than any other member of the student body. He has shown himself to be a skillful tennis player by winning a place on the freshmen tennis team his first year in college. He is a member of the Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity, the Reporters Club, and the Delta Theta Chi social fraternity.

Lingle, who is a member of Delta Pi Kappa Journalistic fraternity and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, was managing editor of the Davidsonian during the past year. He was defeated by Boyce Martin in the election for the editorship of the paper next year. Lingle is currently an associate editor of the paper and an outstanding leader on the campus.

Some time within the next two weeks, the fourth and last issue of the Chameleon will be published. The magazine has, this year, under the editorship of H.M. Austin, proven a decided success and it is predicted that it will be the same next year under Wharton. The publication has been accorded recognition by the national association during the past year and has reached new standards in all departments.

Juniors Contrive Many Varied Entertainments of Pleasure and Mirth

Oratorical Contests Open Week of Fun and Frolic

CLIMAX SATURDAY NIGHT

Elaborate Entertainment Planned for Gym to be Highlight of Junior Week Program

With the class of '26 as hosts, Junior week will start off in great style Friday morning at 10:30, when the class “Websters” meet in the Junior Oratorical contest. From then until Tuesday night, the campus will be the scene of many interesting events, all of which will materially contribute to the success of the occasion. Although the Oratorical contest has faded as the salient feature of the season, other events have arisen to make the holidays the most enjoyable of the year.

On Friday evening, following the award of the Junior Orator’s medal, the Davidson Glee Club will entertain in its last appearance of the year in Shearer Hall. The Glee Club has had a most successful season, having been presented in all sections of the Carolinas, and the program for its last appearance bids fair to eclipse its previous appearances.

As the most important feature of the Week, the Juniors will give their Class Night program in the gymnasium on Saturday at eight o'clock. The gym has been undergoing repair, and the surprise the class has in store has led to many conjectures among the members of the student body. This promises to be the treat of the entire occasion.

Both the morning and evening services on Sunday have been turned over to the Class, and at both services, special speakers will appear. This has long been a feature on this day, and an interesting and varied program has been prepared.

On Monday afternoon, the Varsity baseball team will meet the team from the University of North Carolina in its season game, just as the football team meets the same team in the annual Armistice Day football classic. This is an annual baseball classic.

On Tuesday afternoon, the freshman nine will meet the team from Winthrop.

Davidson Baseball Team Wins One Game on Palmetto State Trip

Defeat Furman But Lose to Wofford and Clemson

The Davidson baseball team has just returned from a trip through South Carolina and Georgia, having played five games, including two with Oglethorpe University in Atlanta. The first game of the trip was played in Spartanburg, with Davidson coming out at the small end of a 4-2 score, the Wofford Terriers being the winners. In this first game, Woodham scored both of the two runs made by Davidson. Sparnell, pitching for Wofford, won his own game by a double which gave his team the lead by which they won the game.

Box score:
Davidson: 101 000 000—2
Wofford: 110 020 00x—4

Batteries: Davidson, Wells and McGeachy; Wofford, Sparnell and King.