Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927

Dedication

To those who are directly responsible for whatever glory or for whatever depths of despair a man is prompted to attain or into which he may sink; to those for whom a man will labor six days in the week and then entrust the whole of his earnings to their keeping; to those whom man delights to please, and whose sole ambition it is to be pursued by man, to those whose presence makes Junior Speaking and without whom this week's fun would go painfully lacking; yes, to the fair visitors, our guests, and our sweethearts, is this column affectionately dedicated.

What Others Think of the Women

"It is a girl's business to get married as soon as possible, and a man's to keep unmarried as long as he can." — Shaw.

"Woman reduces us all to the common denominator." — Shaw.

"A slighted woman knows no bounds." — Vanbrugh.

"What smooth tale cannot a knave make believe." — John Webster.

"Woman, that makes Junior Speaking worthwhile." — Peanut Woman.

Judge (to plaintiff) — "And so you are bringing suit against the railroad company for losing your thumb in the wreck. But are you sure your thumb was worth three thousand dollars?"

"Oh, yes," replied the young wife, "You see that was the thumb I kept my husband under."

Dulin — "What do you call her definition of an ideal husband?"

Shaw — "Ah, she's always trying to poke her head into other people's affairs."

Converse — "What would you do if a young man clerk came to wait on you at the lingerie counter?"

First Lady — "Can anyone here give me a definition of an ideal husband?"

Mr. A — "And what would you do if a young man clerk came to wait on you at the lingerie counter?"

Queens — "Oh, I think I would have a fit."

M. B — "Yeah, he married a telephone operator so they say and she gave him the wrong number."

The Candle Light Days

They were seated in the parlor, the bright lights were beaming on every side. Silence prevailed. Finally, he got up the courage to speak. "What would we do," he murmured, "if it were not for Edison?"

"We'd be having a good time right now," replied the sweet young thing at his side.

The swan is a lovely creation, her neck is an interrogation: She loves to philander with some gay old gander, and go off on a vouting flirtation.

We are told that baldness in men is caused by activity of the head. We wonder if the failure of women to grow beards can be allotted to the extensive exercise of their chin.

One Hint Too Many

He — "Gee, but you are a peach."
She — "But I'd rather be a pair."
(And now they are sending out their invitations.)

Mary had a bathing suit, 'Twas pretty without a doubt, For when she climbed inside the thing The most of her stayed out.

The Wrong Gear

"What a smooth gear shift you have on your car, Cora."
"Take your hand off my knee this minute, you fast Junior."

CREDENZA, $300.00

Alf Brand (sporting that baby-tooth brush mustache) — "Darling something has been quivering on my lips for some time."
She — "Well, why don't you go to a barber?"

Arrowood — "Dear you are as fair as a lily."
Guest — "Yes, I'm running true to form."

Second Same — "One who never passes a mail box without feeling in all his pockets for letters."

Fourth Places In Meet With Galaxy of Schools

Kell, Goodykoontz, Currie and Pinkney Compose Varsity Davidson Team — Curry Stars

The Davidson Varsity and Freshman Track teams placed a close fourth in the Tech Relays held in Atlanta, Georgia, on April 9.Pinkney composed the Varsity team. Currie took third place in both the 100 and 200-yard dashes. The Freshman Relay team, composed of Whittle, McGavock, Peterson, and Brohard, also placed fourth. In the Tech Relays, held annually for the leading colleges and universities of the south, the University of Indiana won first place, Vanderbilt University second, Mississippi A. and M. third, with Davidson a close fourth. The time was three twenty-six and six-tenths seconds.

Twelve of the leading schools entered the relays, while thirty-four schools entered the meet. Kell was the first to start the stick rolling for Davidson. He happened to be on one of the outside tracks and had the misfortune to jump the gun, which set him back two yards. Pinkney received the stick next and passed two men, while Goodykoontz passed seven and Currie three. Currie, running against some of the leading sprinters of the south, placed third in both the 100 and 200-yard dashes. It must be noted that Currie ran the 220 after he had entered the 100-yard dash. The time for the first place in the 220 and 100-yard dashes was 22.4 and 10 seconds, respectively.

Six teams entered into the Freshman relays. Whittle, the first runner for Davidson, came in last. McGavock held his ground, Peterson passed one man, and Brohard passed one. This gave Davidson fourth place.

A SHE TOAST

She may be long and lanky and thin,
Or she may be stout with a double chin;
Perhaps she’s a beauty, possibly not,
But we pass this by with scarcely a thought.

Are her locks the hue of the sun as it sets
Or black as the inkiest shade of jet?
Is it shingled, bobbed, or sheiked?
This draws from our heart not the least of a throb.

Does she flash heaven orbs, or roll green eyes?
Is her intellect great or trifling in size?
She may not know what it all is about,
Yet even this gives us no shadow of doubt.

We forget all these things; for what do they rate?
In our picture of “She” they are wiped from the slate.
And the spirit is left, the state of the heart,
Which plays in our speaking the major part.

So we all join and offer to you
This toast as a tribute where honor is due
You who will furnish the pep and the fun,
You, who are queens now of stag Davidson!

By Pine Ellas.

N. C. C. W.—"Have you read 'What Every Girl Should Know?'"
G. W. C.—"Yes, but they left out several chapters."

Bishop, a recognized authority on higher mathematics, tells us that nearly every love triangle turns into a wreck-tangle if left to develop completely.

Foster (1930)—“I’m sorry I ever married you.”
Young Wife—“Well, you did keep some good man from getting a sweet wife.”

UNIVERSITY MEN are showing a decided preference for the three-button coat, but if a two-button coat looks better on you, stick to it by all means. $35, $40, $45

The Tate-Brown Co. Both styles at

NEW PHONIC
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
MUSIC STORE
Charlotte, N. C.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Candy Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N.C.

Smokes