THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1927

AUTHORITY ON INDIA
(Continued from page one)

...highest elements of the East and West in his own training, and is one of the most interesting men Davidson
men will be able to see and hear this year. Just which of his subjects Mr. Joachim will choose for
the Davidson student body is not known, but it will be selected from among the following: East and West in
a New World Renaissance, Gandhi and the Nationalist Movement, Comparative Religions, Hindu Literature, Poetry, and Folk-Lore, The Women of India,
India’s Economic Situation, The Caste System of India, Hindu Philosophical Systems. It is highly possible that he will choose the
subject of Comparative Religions which has pleased other college audiences immensely this year. In it he discusses Christianity, Mohammedanism, Hinduism,
Buddhism, Confucianism, and Zoroastrianism. However, whether he chooses this subject or another, it is certain that time spent in hearing
him will be of great value. The lecture will start promptly at 7:30 in Shearer Hall. Professor Shewmake announces that
arrangements have been made to postpone the regular prayer meeting until the following night in order that no conflict will
occur. All students are urged to take advantage of this lecture and a cordial invitation is extended to townspeople and
others who may wish to attend.

The Truth of It
“And how do you account for your long life?” said the visitor to the village centenarian.
“Ter the fact that I ain’t dead yet,” said the old man.—Montreal Star.

Many a man is doing work day after day that an electric motor can do for less than a cent
an hour.

Student Dramatic Club Offers Varied Program of Plays During Season
Professor Erwin Will Supervise All Productions of Club

PRACTICE SOON
Red and Black Masquers Will Present Numerous One-Act Plays During Year.

The Red and Black Masquers, Davidson’s representatives in the field of dramatics, have organized for the coming year, and all
indications point to a very busy season. Last year, for various reasons, plans of the Dramatic Club failed to materialize,
and the students had to be content with outside entertainers. Under the leadership of Val Guthery, president, and Tyree Dillard,
business manager, the club will strive to fill the need of student dramatics. Most of last year’s members will again
be available, and their ranks will no doubt be augmented by several new additions, since some very promising material is
in evidence among the different classes. Professor Erwin will supervise the productions as usual, and his assistance will, no doubt,
prove invaluable. It is the plan of the managers to present a very diversified program. At least one regular three-act
play will be produced, and also a number of one-act plays, short skits, and novelties. Manager Dillard has written to
a...

College men and women recognize electricity as one of the principal aids to progress in the factory, on the farm,
and in the home.
ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY

Adele Arbuckle is Honored at School
Miss Adele Arbuckle, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle, of Davidson, and a freshman at Agnes Scott, was
elected to the chairmanship of her class. In this capacity, Miss Arbuckle will lead her class in a competition against
the sophomores to get up the best stunt, the reward for which will be the traditional black cat. It has
been the custom at Agnes Scott for the past several years for the two lower classes to write, act, and
promote a stunt, given before the entire student body. The reward is a plaster-paris form of a black cat, which
remains in the possession of the winning class. Both competition and interest are keen in this unique custom, and it
is no little honor to be elected chairman to lead the class in an effort to win the affirmative vote
of the judges. The contest will take place next Saturday, and both classes are working furiously to present the better
stunt and capture the unusual prize. The election of Miss Arbuckle wins for her an additional honor, a more personal
one, in the fact that she has so quickly won the hearts and friendship of her classmates. Although this does
not mean the presidency of her class, yet it puts her well in line for that later honor when the
class organizes. Miss Arbuckle is a graduate of Davidson High School of the class of ’27. During her High School
career she manifested her...qualities of Samuel French, Inc., of New York for a list of suitable plays, and as soon
as one can be chosen that meets all requirements, work will begin in earnest.

Guided by human intelligence, electricity can do almost any job a man can do. From stirring to grinding, from lifting
to pulling, there is a G-E motor specially adapted to any task.

NEW YORK

Church Choir Enlarged Under Prof. E. J. Cullum
Platform Will be Enlarged to Accommodate Six Students

The Presbyterian Church choir has been reorganized under the direction of Prof. E. J. Cullum. With the installation of Dr.
Moffat on Sunday, September 25th, the church became ably supervised in a spiritual way and the music will now be
well directed. A training class will be begun by the director in the near future.

Prof. Cullum plans to enlarge the choir to a certain extent. The platform will be broadened to make room for
another row of male singers. The front row of sopranos and contraltos will be moved forward on the new platform,
making room for six male singers directly in front of the organ. The two chairs on either side of the
organ will be left for two tenors and two basses, on the left and right, respectively. The choir’s training class
will hold its meetings in Shearer Hall every Wednesday night at eight o'clock. It will be in the form of
a rehearsal for the Sunday anthems and special music. The director has not yet decided how to select the members
to use the new choir seats. A group of college boys will contest for these places. The whole idea is
to add a group of male voices and thus get more volume in the voices.

She graduated an honor student, and was the historian of her class. Her recent honors at Agnes Scott are a
continuation of her work here, and a budding of rich future promise.

CHARLIE PADDOCK
(Continued from page one)

in free competition with leading athletes of the Hawaiian Islands, China, Japan, Italy, Germany, France, England, and Australia. Grantland Rice
calls him “the fastest man of all time,” and Harold Dibble, member of the Olympic Games Commission, said of him:
“Paddock can answer the reason for athletics better than any other American.” He discusses a theme that is close to
his heart—clean sportsmanship—in the battle of life, as well as on the athletic field. He is a fluent speaker with
an incisive and thought-inspiring style and with a keen appreciation of humor. He was recently featured in Bebe Daniels’ production,
“The Campus Flirt,” by the Famous Players-Lasky Producers. His lecture at Davidson is sponsored by the Y. M. C. A.,
and not by the College Lecture Committee, therefore it will be necessary to charge a small admission.

DEMONSTRATION AND ADDRESS
(Continued from page one)

in theory. Concentration plus perseverance is an unbeatable combination. Lastly, naturalness in all relations of life is a vital factor
in becoming a successful well-rounded man.

Be natural in your relationships with God and with your fellow man and you have nothing to worry about. To
be religious is the most natural thing in the world for student or savage and the greatest drawing power in
any man’s life is the power of Jesus Christ. Even as the backswing is important in a golfer’s stroke so
a man’s backswing of years spent in college will be important in his later life. Get your eye on God’s
ball; accept Jesus; live for Him, and then you will be able to hit the ball far down the fairway
of life.

The ORTHO CREDENZA, $300.00
VICTROLA ANDREW’S New PHONIC
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
MUSIC STORE
3 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

THERE'S a reason why more college men come to Johnson’s Barber Shop
THREE DOORS BEYOND THE BANK
Charlotte, N. C.

The Commercial National Bank
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.
R. A. DUNN, President
W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
Founded 1847
