8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1927

SEVENTY-FOUR FORMER STUDENTS
(Continued from page 7)

The classes represented, and the names and addresses of all who attended the meetings are as follows:

1883 — John Bratton, Atlanta; J. Douglas, Gainesville, Fla.
1888 — W. H. Baker, Jacksonville.
1891 — William H. Baker, Jacksonville.
1896 — John D. Baker, Sr., and John W. Dodge, both of Jacksonville.
1899 — Rev. J. E. Ward and Dr. G. T. Clark, both of Bainbridge, Ga.
1900 — H. M. Askew, Atlanta.
1901 — Will Watt and Hansell Watt, both of Thomasville, Ga.; J. R. Johnson, Monticello, Fla.; C. H. Murray, Griffin,
Ga.
1903 — Dr. W. M. Dunn and Prof. H. H. Caldwell, both of Atlanta.
1905 — Dr. J. Sam Guy, Atlanta.
1906 — M. B. Ives, Orlando; Dr. J. Frank Cranford, St. Petersburg; Dr. C. H. Watt, Thomasville, Ga.
1907 — Rev. J. E. Purcell and Rev. E. L. Flanagan, both of Atlanta; E. M. Cranford, St. Petersburg.
1908 — Rev. R. M. Stimson, Columbus, Ga.; Prof. S. G. Stukes, Decatur, Ga.; R. M. Wetherell, Orlando.
1910 — Dr. J. B. White and W. F. Milburn, both of Atlanta; Dr. J. H. McDuffie, Jr., Columbus, Ga.;
C. C. Alexander, Orlando.
1911 — Rev. H. M. Shields, Atlanta.
1912 — Dr. E. L. Bishop, and J. L. R. Boyd, both of Atlanta.
1913 — Rev. S. B. Hoyt, Barber, Va.; Z. J. Crawford and D. A. McQueen, both of Jacksonville; C. L.
Ferron, Eustis, Fla.
1915 — Dr. W. M. Shaw, Jacksonville; Rev. J. B. Belk, D.D., Orlando.
1916 — G. B. Hoyt, and J. A. Gloer, both of Atlanta; R. S. Witherington, Eustis, Fla.
1917 — D. W. Lane, Folkston, Ga.; J. E. Willis, Bainbridge, Ga.
1918 — W. L. Douglas, Dunedin, Fla.
1919 — S. M. Gilbert, Jacksonville, Fla.; J. J. Love, Quincy, Fla.
1920 — A. L. Wilson, Quincy, Fla.
1921 — G. D. Green, II, and S. A. Burgess, both of Jacksonville.
1922 — J. M. Richards, Decatur, Ga.; K. R. Warnock, Jacksonville; R. K. Shaw, Jr., and J. S. Curry, both
of Quincy, Fla.
1923 — L. C. Burney, Decatur, Ga.
1924 — Sidney Ives, III, Orlando.
1925 — H. M. Moss, Atlanta; K. S. McAlpin and John D. Baker, Jr., both of Jacksonville.
1926 — L. L. Deck, College Park, Ga.; O. L. Brenner, Atlanta; C. F. Monk and Claude McIntosh, both of
Decatur, Ga.; T. S. Baker, Jacksonville; W. H. Lynch, Jr., Orlando; J. C. Pressley, St. Petersburg.
1927 — L. C. Deck, Atlanta; S. L. Belk, Orlando; J. B. Webb, Clearwater, Fla.; C. R. Anderson and P.
F. Jones, both of St. Petersburg; S. W. Doss, Jr., and Zack Varnedoe, both of Thomasville, Ga.; M. E. O'Neal,
Bainbridge, Ga.
1930 — J. K. Jones, St. Petersburg, Fla. And Joe Ruff, of St. Petersburg, Fla., who enters Davidson as a
freshman next year.

ALUMNI IN FLORIDA
(Continued from page 7)

...of encouragement to the team, assuring them that they were behind them and would be at Gainesville to watch their
performance. Atlanta will make a valiant effort to obtain a football game between Georgia...

MOGADORES are smart this season. We have them in many hues to harmonize with any and all of your apparel.
$1.00 and Up

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
Mary Astor in Rose
A George Fitzmaurice production

WEDNESDAY
Sally O’Neill in “Becky”

THURSDAY
Matinee and Night
Wm. Haines in Spring Time

FRIDAY
Richard Dix in Shanghai Bound

SATURDAY
Tom Mix in Tumbling River

Finis

...and MOIRES in any shades and of the Golden West

“Y” Column
The speaker at Y this week will be the Hon. O. Max Gardner, of Shelby, N. C. Mr. Gardner is
one of the most prominent lawyers in the state, and is particularly mentioned in all political circles as a probable
candidate for the next Governor of North Carolina. He is also one of the leaders of the Baptist Church in
this section, and is well known in all parts of the South. A forceful speaker, a deep thinker, this man
will bring to Davidson men a message that will be excelled by none. At any cost, hear this speaker. Remember
the time and place: Shearer, at 6:15.

The Y cards will be out this week, and anyone who fails to get one, is asked to notify Jim
Appleby as soon as possible, so a card can be issued for him.

It was planned to have Dr. Vander Meulen’s services start on Sunday, October 16th, but the Y has recently been
notified that he has been ill, and it is not known whether he will be able to take charge of
the services at that time. The Fall Life Work Campaign will not be abandoned, however, but will merely be postponed
until a later date. More definite news soon.

The song-leading class sponsored by the Y has started off with a good enrollment, and any others interested may still
join. The Y quartet is also in progress and quite a number are out for it.

DAVIDSON TROUNCES
(Continued from page 1)

...stimulant to the Wildcats, and immediately they began to look much better as Grey followed with a pretty first down,
but they stopped here for a short time. But they had tasted blood and after an exchange of punts they
resumed their task. After a bad kick by Florida the ball was on their 12-yard line, where Harrison failed to
gain and Flinn, substituting for Nisbet, went through the Gators for the remaining distance and touchdown. Grey failed to make
the extra point. In another rush it looked like a certain touchdown as Davidson steadily marched 49 yards to Florida’s
eight-yard line and here Dick Grey did a very unusual thing of missing goal. After these gains the Davidson team
was master of the field and the Gators were forced on the defensive and had to be satisfied with the
gains of the determined Wildcats.

At the kick-off in the second half Davidson received and returned the ball to their own 31-yard line. Harrison got
loose for a 25-yard gain and assisted by a penalty, the ball was 29 yards from the Gator goal, where
Grey's dropkick was wide. Shortly after this time Ed Wilson intercepted a pass and after a series of gains, mostly
by Flinn, the ball was carried over the line by Grey, who failed to make the extra point. Davidson continued
to hold the advantage through the remainder of the game making a total of five chances the Wildcats had. After
the initial spurt of the Sunshine men they were not dangerously close to the goal of the Wildcats, though they
made continued substitutions in an attempt to change the tide.of the battle. These new activities of the Y are being
watched with a great deal of interest, and confidence is felt that they will play a large part in the
work of the Y.

The entire Davidson team played heads-up football, Harrison, Flinn, and Nisbet doing most of the backfield work. Middlekauf, Kirchner, and
Stanley were probably in the limelight over the rest of their teammates. Charlie Paddock will be here soon to speak
on some phase of sportsmanship, and the student body should avail themselves of the opportunity to hear this world-famed athlete.

Line-up and summary follows:
Florida: Position Davidson
Stanley Seeley Arrowood
Carla McConnell
Reeves McColgan
Kirchner Center Hampton
Allen RG Laws
D. Dehoff RG Melton
W. Dehoff RA Wearn
Bowyer Wilson
Goodbread Harrison
Bishop Reese Grey
Cawthorn Nisbet

Score by quarters:
Florida 0 0 0 0
Davidson 0 0 0 38

Substitutions—Florida: Owens, Bryan, Crabtree, Clemons, Costeshouge, Walzet, Smith, Goldstein, Middlekauf, Baldwin, Van. Davidson: Baker, Hunt, Flinn, Kell, Harmon, Smith, Matthews,
McEachern, DeArmon, Hewlette.

The Y rooms have been equipped more completely for the benefit of the students by the addition of a number
of papers and magazines. These added facilities for recreation help greatly in making life on the campus more pleasant.

Among the new books at the Y rooms is found a volume entitled “An Outline of Careers—A Practical Guide to
Achievement.” This is a composite volume, containing a series of articles, written by prominent Americans, all of whom are leaders
in their particular field of work, advising and informing young men as to the requirements, advantages, etc., of the line
of endeavor that they are engaged in. Every imaginable type of work is discussed, and the whole facts and truths
of the situation are clearly outlined. This book can be of invaluable service to anyone who is as yet undecided
as to his life-work. Drop by and look it over. It’s on the Y table at all times.

In the last issue of the Davidsonian, an error in the price was made in the advertisement of Mayhew’s, Master
Cleaners and Dyers. The advertisement gave the price to be $4 for $6 worth of cleaning and pressing. The correct
rate is $4 for $5 worth of work.

Mr. John Clyde Barrington, ’26, was married to Miss Ruby Lee Honeycutt, on Friday, August 12th, in New York City.
Mr. Barrington has been a student at the College of New York City for the past two years, and will
make his home in New York.

Footwear for Davidsonians
We Want to Meet the New Men And Renew Acquaintances With the Old! Visit Us
Gilmer-Moore Co. at Charlotte
SHOES LUGGAGE

Also orders taken for feeds, special entertainments, and home-made candies.

Tech and Davidson, and they are anxious to open negotiations immediately for this fray, since they have not had a
game in their midst since 1923. The group there has also instituted monthly luncheons, where all alumni can gather at
a designated place for lunch.

Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, was present at all of the meetings except the one held in Bainbridge, making a continuous
tour from Atlanta to St. Petersburg. At all points, he made a talk, which covered the progress of Davidson College
within the past few years, and the proposed alumni work for the coming year. He also dealt with local situations
and offered suggestions.

In commenting to a Davidsonian reporter about the trip, he expressed satisfaction over the results, and believes that all of
the meetings were worthwhile to the individual alumnus, and that the association as a whole will profit materially through such
local associations—the basis of alumni activity. He also stated that many new addresses had been obtained, and that approximately thirty
more alumni can be reached today as a result of the tour.

Victor Bieler Casanar Co.
Furniture, Rugs, Draperies, and Interior Decorations
Also Steinway, Ivers & Pond, Geo. Steck, Brambach, and Duo-Art Reproducing Pianos
Orthophonic Victrolas and Brunswick Panatropes and Brunswick Records
