6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1927

Many Applications Received for 1928

Davidson College announced today that over 200 applications have been received from high school students who desire to matriculate as
freshmen here in the fall of 1927. Of this number, 110 have already been accepted. This condition has been true
for the past several years, Davidson turning away more students than it can accept for the freshman class. Generally, the
enrollment for the freshman class reaches its quota within a short time, since the registrar receives additional applications every day.

Money for Office

The Davidsonian staff has recently been delighted recipients of a gift of fifty dollars from the college for the purpose
of further equipping and outfitting its office in Oak Row. This gift comes at a time when it is sorely
needed, already the staff having made plans for the purchase of needed articles. Additional typewriters, copy paper, chairs, and desks
are some of the items on the “wanted list.” The expenditure of these funds will be under the supervision of
the editor-in-chief, Harlee Branch, Jr.

Speaker Presents “Friendship With God” as Life Program

The program of the “Y” vesper service Sunday evening was one of the most inspiring of the year. Dr. R.
Calvin Grier, president of Erskine College at Due West, S. C., delivered a very impressive address. Erskine is a sister
institution of Davidson, being founded in 1839. Dr. Grier, with a sympathetic understanding of the problems of young men, made
his address interesting and helpful. Taking as his subject “Friendship with God,” Dr. Grier said that to be a true
Christian one must know God in his innermost relations. Not only in the outward forms of religion, but in his
personal life one should approach God in the serious things. We must put absolute faith and trust in Him. Atheists
and skeptics do not know God, but when one comes to the Christian viewpoint, he sees Him as the supreme
ruler of the universe and the controller of man’s destiny. Dr. Grier further said that we are often unable to
understand certain things when they happen and are prone to doubt God’s plan. In later life, we realize that it
was all for the best and can understand the purpose of the Divine plan. Giving a beautiful illustration from the
life of a certain elderly gentleman, Dr. Grier said that when in his youth this man had become vexed with
the problems of prep school life and was unable to understand the purpose of many of the hardships to be
endured, in his later years he could look back over the past with a clear insight into the purpose of
these hardships. The elderly gentleman had learned the lesson that when we put our trust in Him, we can understand
the purpose of the Divine plan.

Current Events

Gerville Reache, noted French publicist, writing from Paris, takes the view that Russia is definitely planning an armed effort to
spread socialism throughout the world. He says, after analyzing the situation carefully, that the entire future of humanity rests on
the stand taken by the United States and France in the line-up of nations.

She was only a realtor’s daughter but she loved him a lot.

New Father—“Son, what does this 60 on your paper mean?”
Ellet—“I can’t imagine unless it is the temperature of the room.”

Last year the Davidsonian received from the Student Store fifty dollars to aid in equipping the office when it moved
to its new location. This money was spent on typewriters, chairs, desks, and other small items. A surplus of fourteen
dollars made during the past year by the Davidsonian in sponsoring various entertainments here on the Hill has been recently
received from Conrad Frederick Smith, editor of the Davidsonian during the last year. Smith has also made a large contribution
in the shape of a large amount of copy paper to be used in the makeup of the paper, such
as writing stories, assignments, heads, etc. It is probable that the Davidsonian will sponsor some form of entertainment such as
girls’ glee club and dramatic clubs sometime during the spring or next fall. The proceeds of these programs will be
used to further the equipment of the paper’s quarters. Further announcements of the above plans will be given later.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Sullivan Wires-Home
Dear Pa:
How’s ma? Send money, Rah! Rah!

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

ANOTHER CAR STOLEN
YOURS may be next! A Fire and Theft Insurance Policy will protect you against that hazard. Let us cover your
car.
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr.

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Drinks Candy Austin Candy Statesville, N. C. Smokes Shop

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Founded 1847
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.
OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashierand believe all things are for the best; all things will turn out well. Grier also said
that it is sometimes only in the time of greatest sorrow that we come to know God as the greatest
power. Possibly, one of the three colleges under the A. R. P. Church will be completed before the end of
school in June, if further finances are forthcoming from any other source; filling cabinets and a den were defeated in
doubles tilt. Tilden was defeated by Alonzo, Tilden Fla., Saturday, March 12. Nick George, who has won a string of
laurels on the Southern basketball courts, Atlanta Athletic Club. William (Tiny) Only non-residents of South Carolina who happen to be
passing through can buy gasoline from the filling stations of South Carolina according to the decree of the governor. The
British bar the entry of Shantungese to foreign districts. Japan is being swept by another storm, silent wires show. Indications
that another severe storm is sweeping Japan, following a recent earthquake disaster, were given in the telegraphic advices received in
New York Saturday. France is facing a movement for a cleanup of the stage. Critics are trying to do away
with the most vulgar of these plays. Warning against July 11, 1927, was given by one who makes a practice
of reading the world’s future in the great Egyptian pyramid at Gizeh. He claims that the date forbodes ill. The
Chinese radicals gain control over the Nationalist party. The United States consul in Brazil was stabbed to death recently by
an American who was pressing a claim. The murder took place at the American consulate in Brazil.

More students in the United States are studying outside college walls than within. A student body of over 3,000,000, without
a football team, class colors, registrars, or superintendent of buildings and structures is scattered over the country. Workers who would
strengthen themselves in the “class struggle,” workers who would push up into more leisured classes; wives of the newly rich
getting “culture” tardily; ambitious high school graduates without means for college; middle-aged graduates of grammar schools seeking to gain what
they were deprived of by years of hard work. Farmers, merchants, shoe salesmen, all types of men and women are
pursuing some kind of education after working hours; either by correspondence or under public library guidance or in university extension
classes, workers’ education classes, workers’ summer schools, folk schools, institutes, or museum classes. For this huge adult student body, new
methods of teaching are evolving. In England and the continental countries, adult education is much farther advanced than in America.
But for the past two years, the Carnegie Foundation has been surveying the field. As a result, five volumes are
being prepared on the subject, treating adult education of all types, from university extension to chautauqua. A clearing house for
the adult education movement has been opened at 41 E. 42nd St., New York. It is to be called the
American Association of Adult Education. It will arrange educational meetings and issue publications dealing with adult education problems. The association’s
members will include teachers and students in adult education, as well as institutions. It has already established relations with similar
bodies in Europe. — New Student.

Visitor—“And you say my cousin flunked out? How long did he stay at Davidson?”
McGee—“About 25 trips to Charlotte.”

He told the story of a young girl who learned to love God as a friend at the death of
her little son. So likewise, many Christians are not able to realize God's true friendship until a time of sorrow.

Wildcats’ Success at Last Explained
It has been revealed here that “Lady Luck” played a more important part in Davidson winning the state football championship
last season than was at first thought. When “Doctor” Charlie, a negro, was putting away uniforms, he was observed ripping
open one of the trouser legs of each uniform. It was then disclosed that he had sewn a rabbit's foot
into each uniform of the varsity and was extricating them for further use next season. In the Carolina game, he
buried a horseshoe between the goal posts and brought into play many other forms of superstitious belief. The question has
been asked, “Did he visit Raleigh before the Wake Forest game and put a rabbit’s foot in each N. C.
State uniform?”

SOPHS VICTORS (Continued from page 1)
Shot Put—Won by Melton, 33 ft. 9 1-2 in. —Two rides to Charlotte given by Zero Keever.
Discus—Won by Regen, 95 ft. 10 in. — Two rides to Charlotte by Harvey Worsham.
High jump—Won by Dumas and Smith, 5 ft. 2 in. — One dollar in trade given by Norton Barber Shop.
Broad jump—Won by Kell—One dollar in trade given by Johnson’s Barber Shop, 19 ft. 2 in.
Pole Vault—Won by Bailey, 9 ft. 6 in. — Pocket knife given by Goodrum and Co.
Javelin—Won by Brown—Tie or socks given by Barnett.

The prizes for second place were as follows:
440 yd. run—Won by O’Neal—Tie or socks by A. S. Brown.
880 yd. run—Won by Treverton—Steak dinner given at Wildcat Cafe.
100 yd. dash—Cake given by Misses Schefield—Won by Flynn.
1 mile run—Won by Lafferty — Half dozen oranges given by Fidler Brothers.

She—“My hair is simply a wreck.”
He—“How can you expect anything else when you left the switch open?”

A legless man is now attempting to swim to Catalina islands. The swimmer, Charles Zimmy, started his swim at 3:05,
March 11.

Minister visiting in the home of a member—“What a funny name! Why do you call your daughter ‘Sunflower’?”
Mother—“Well, you watch her next time she sees the miller’s son. She turns her face toward him every time.”

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The new ones are $35 to $50. Smartly styled clothes for college men not only by popular acclaim but recognized
throughout college circles as the authoritative—scholastically speaking. Everything a college man could wish for.
MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
