’ THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1927

“I’ll take a pound of mince meat,” phoned the young housewife, “and please cut it from a nice young mince.”

Two Scotchmen were swimming when an argument arose over which one could stay under water the longest. As a result, each agreed to pay the other six cents if he was forced to come up.

To mark the close of a perfect day, let's tune in on station W. H. O. and hear that new number entitled “I call my girl Daisy because I know she won't tell.”

Grocer’s Advertisement: Apples, oranges, imported nuts, fruit cake for sale. Come early and avoid the rush. The early bird gets the worm.

Prof. in Astronomy class—“Now, we have a model that represents Mars. Is there anyone who wants to ask any questions?”

Billy Rice—“Yes sir, I'd like to know whether Mars is inhabited or not.”

Judge—“How did the detectives ever suspect that the prisoner was a man disguised as a woman?”

Lawyer—“Your honor, he passed a millinery shop without looking in the window.”

Jones—“What did he do, marry?”

McCutcheon—“No, he bought a second-hand Ford.”

Speaker—“I haven't the least respect for a coward. What kind of a man would you call a person who hides behind a woman?”

An American tourist sat in a Paris cafe and wrote to his wife back in America, “I have been in Paris two weeks and haven't taken a drink.” Just then an orchestra began playing, “My Bonnie Lies Over the Ocean.” But he failed to catch the significance and sent the letter anyway.the letter on a lady's skirt?” make the test! 

Voice from audience—“Well, sir, I'd say he was a magician.”

Shaw—“How about paying me that dollar I loaned you last month?”

Thrower—“You can’t get blood from a turnip, can you?”

Shaw—“No, but you can from a beet.”

Thrower—“Well, not a dead beet.”

Phone—no other tobacco is like it!

Man’s Life
seven eleven, thirteen S. Bedford.

1—School tablets
2—Aspirin tablets
3—Stone tablets

’Tis done beneath the mistletoe
’Tis done beneath the rose,
But the proper place to kiss, you know,
Is just below the nose.

Stop your car and let the train go by
It won't take more than a minute,
Your car will start again intact,
And better still you're in it.

Worries of a College Student
“Is this dance formal or can I wear my own clothes?”

Report on Business
Wrecker Service—“Many did picking up.”
“Have your interior painted for Christmas.”
Elevator Company—“Our stock is very unstable. It continues to go up and down.”
Seaboard R. R. Co—“We're off again.”
Town Bakery—“Our investment is rising rapidly.”

Many husbands have dens in their homes; others just howl all over the house.

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS
Selz Shoes, Adler Collegian Clothes
Complete line of High-Grade Haberdashery
Fresh Country Vegetables.
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES

Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N.C.

THE SHOP FOR MEN
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Campus Representative, R. B. MCQUEEN
15 E. Trade St.

Dairy Produce Co.—“Ours is a creamy outlook for the future.”

To Whom Honor Is Due
The local fire department arrived at the scene of the fire after the building was almost consumed, and aided wonderfully toward the further spread of the fire.

Frank Daniels—“Look here at the letters I’ve received since Christmas. Can you beat it?”

McEachern—“I believe it would pay you to get married and live off your stamp money.”

George White?
Stage hand—“Shall I lower the curtain, sir? One of the living models has the hiccoughs.”

McCutcheon—“Yes, I hear that Webb is letting the rest of the world go by.”

Pretty
The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000

You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N.C.

WHOLESALE
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

FOR THAT TASTE OF Home Cooking
On Your Way Home
New York Cafe
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
Charlotte, N.C.
213 N. Tryon St.
CREDENZA, $300.00
29 West Trade St.