THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1927

Faculty Club Room Furnished With Carved Table by Dr. Hood

“Y” Column

The checker tournament is progressing rapidly and will be played off early this week. After a few more matches, the semi-finals will be reached and from then on the tournament will be finished in a short time. The Y is especially pleased over the interest shown in this series of matches and feels well repaid for its efforts.

Realizing the importance of having your life’s work picked out and planned, the Y wants to help every man who is still uncertain as to what vocation he should take up, to make a wise choice in the matter. And that is the purpose of the Vocational Guidance Institute that is to be held soon—to put the facts about certain professions before each man and give him advice that he can get nowhere else. The Y earnestly hopes that the Institute will really help many men to make up their minds as to their chosen work and that their choices will be wise ones.

A new shipment of Y books has come in, and offers a great variety of subjects to choose from. Drop by and look them over.

Bishop Mikel, Bishop of the Atlanta diocese and national officer of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, will speak at vesper services on Sunday, February 13th. Plan now to hear this great speaker and preacher.

A Ping-Pong table is to be installed in the Y room soon. With this new game, the Y can provide a good number of means of amusement and recreation, and everyone can find something that will be to his liking.

On Sunday, February 6th, the speaker at Y will be Dr. Carver, who is a noted negro scientist and one of the most famous chemists in the country. He is well known for his achievements in finding many useful products in the peanut and also in sweet potatoes and will bring a message of a practical nature. Be sure and hear this man, an expert in his chosen work.

Weekly prayer meeting services will be held at the church on Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday afternoons and also

Hollingsworth Elected Former Davidson Student Chosen News Editor of Student Paper at Georgia University

James F. Hollingsworth, for two years a reporter and staff member of The Davidsonian until the time of his withdrawal from Davidson at the end of the spring term, is being furnished. Professor Erwin states that the room has been much improved and decorated inside, and that the furniture will be of wicker. The table of Dr. Hood's is expected to add much to it.

Friends and former classmates of James Hollingsworth, ex-’29, who withdrew from the college one of Davidson’s most promising and prolific journalists. During his freshman year, he achieved pre-eminence in reportorial work, and his subsequent election to membership in the Reporter’s Club, and to the position of assistant managing editor of The Davidsonian, came as tributes to his talent.

Entering the University of Georgia at the end of the spring term and under the supervision of Professor Erwin, he will be glad to learn of his election to the position of news editor of the Red and Black, the student newspaper at the University of Georgia. Announcement of Hollingsworth’s election to this high position was contained in a recent issue of the Georgia paper.

Romantic Movie to be Shown Saturday

Tense dramatic incidents, an incomparable love story, together with an undying strain of comedy and the graphic portrayal of western development join to make Samuel Goldwyn’s presentation of Henry King’s film, “The Winning of Barbara Worth” one of the outstanding photoplays of the year. This picture appears at the gym Saturday, February 5.

The dramatic romance, which features Ronald Colman and Vilma Banky, reunited on the screen for the first time since the production of “The Dark Angel,” preserves all the salient features of the powerful novel by Harold Bell Wright. It is a glowing tale of those pioneers who battled in the desert lands of the West, with the menace of water; first, in its total absence, then in its overflowing presence. With E. J. Ratcliffe, hated eastern capitalist, and Charles Lane as Jefferson Worth, Barbara’s father, the motivation of the story is in capable hands. Clyde Cook, Follies’ comedian, Sam Blum, and Erwin Connely handle the comedy.

The faculty club room, located in the north end of the old Pi Kappa Alpha hall, on Elm Row, will soon be presented with a hand-carved library table by Prof. Fraser Hood. The Quadranglers club, a faculty organization, uses this room for its meetings. Though not finished yet, the table is a piece of furniture, and Professor Reeves is proud of it. Dr. Hood, who has spent several months in making this table, and has been assisted by Dr. Raynall, of Statesville, in some of the hand-carving. It is of very select oak, and will be finished in dark English oak style, using chemicals to produce a natural aging effect. The table is the exact replica of an old table that dates back to the seventeenth century, in the Manchester University of England. Professor Hood, who made quite a study of antique furniture while in Europe, states that this table is the exact replica of an old table that dates back to the seventeenth century, in the Manchester University of England.On Wednesday night.

COUGHS
Every few hours swallow slowly small pieces of Vicks the size of a pea. Melt a little in a spoon and inhale the vapors.

Professor Hood expects to finish the table beginning of the college term last September. Bren Hollingsworth won immediate recognition among the Georgia journalists. His column, entitled “Playing the Game,” became a leading feature of the University of Georgia paper. His other articles were of equally high calibre. His selection to fill the post of news editor of the Red and Black was of more than ordinary significance in view of the brief time in which he had served the paper, and presages further honors in journalistic endeavor for this former Davidson student.

Due to the lack of proper heating facilities, the club room is not being used at present except for the regular monthly meetings of the club. By next fall, however, it is expected to have steam heat, and will then be used as a sort of lounging room for members of the faculty.

Officers Chosen by Quadrangler Club
At the last meeting of the Quadranglers club, a faculty organization, on Friday night, January 21st, officers for the coming year were elected. Prof. K. J. Foreman was elected president, Mr. F. L. Jackson was made vice-president, and Prof. H. T. Lilly was elected secretary and treasurer. On the executive committee were elected Dr. C. M. Richards and Prof. H. E. Fulcher. Prof. W. L. Porter, the first president of the club, was instrumental in its organization in 1922. It was the outgrowth of a long-felt need for some sort of club to get together members of the faculty in some sort of a social organization. During the past year, under the leadership of Professor Erwin, the club made great strides toward making itself a vital factor in the social life of the faculty. Until this fall, the club has had no permanent place for meeting, but now has headquarters in the old Pi Kappa Alpha hall, on Elm Row. It is hoped that by next fall the club room will be steam-heated, so that it can be used as a reading and lounging room. At present it is being furnished, and the regular monthly meetings are held there. Professor Foreman states that during the coming year outside speakers will be invited to address the club at its regular meetings.

Mrs. C. H. Hamilton entertained the “As You Like It” Club on Friday night. Mrs. M. T. Smith had a most interesting paper on the history of Salem.

VICKS VAPORUB
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

The Book Club meets on Friday afternoon with Mrs. J. R. Withers. Dr. Voiles is to make an address before the club at that time.

TUDOR HALL CLOTH
Reflecting the college man’s preference for style. In a quiet manner, Tudor Hall models embody those features of authentic style and fine tailoring that have been adopted at the leading universities. We are now representing the Tudor Hall Ratchet Weave—a worthy candidate for new honors. $35.00 BELK BROTHERS. CO. RATCHET WEAVE EXCLUSIVELY DESIGNED FOR Tudor Hall Clothes are truly designed for the college man who favors the style. 

Current Events
The outstanding reaction of informed Chinese to the pronouncement of Secretary of State, Kellogg, offering to negotiate new treaties between China and the United States is relief over the assurance that America will not follow Great Britain in her policy toward China. It is taken to mean that the United States will not participate in military intervention. On the other hand, the British do not like the attitude taken by Secretary Kellogg and are disappointed in his refusal to abrogate old treaties until new ones are signed and ratified by the Senate.

In Coolidge’s speech at Washington on Saturday, he emphasized the need of adequate preparedness for national protection. He stressed his responsibility and urged adequate military preparedness in all ways. “As a nation we stand for peace, and it can be obtained only through preparedness.”

The unwelcome spectre of immigration rulings has thrust itself between George Young, youthful winner of the $25,000 Catalina channel prize swim, and his fat vaudeville contracts and prospects of native fame. The 17-year-old Toronto boy faces the possibility that he will be deported because he failed to comply with immigration regulations when he entered this country on his way to California at Detroit. As a result, Young may be obliged to return to Toronto and go through the immigration machine in the regular manner in order to satisfy the law.

High tribute to the beauty of the poems composed by the late Frank L. Stanton, poet laureate of Georgia, is paid in a collection of clippings from leading newspapers in the country, assembled by the Literary Digest, one of the foremost magazines of America and appearing on two full pages in the current issue of that publication. He was compared to Burns and Riley as he was more like those two poets than any others. “He planted seeds of sunshine over the whole southland that two rays might burn where only one burned before—and much of his sunshine has so become a habit of heart and mind in the lives of his numerous followers that even in his death they will be warmed by loving memories of his skill, his grace and his modest genius. He was a man of whom Georgia and the whole southland may justly feel proud to have called their own.”

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Buy Your Suit or Overcoat Now!
There is nothing so unusual about a $35 suit or overcoat, but when you buy one that formerly sold for $50, $55 or even $60 for $35 then there is something unusual about it—it’s a value! We're offering values like that right now in suits and overcoats made by Braeburn, Hart, Schaffner & Marx and Hickey-Freeman.
MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.