8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1927

World’s Fastest Human Scheduled to Address Davidson Students Next Fall.

Records of Former Stars Will be Kept

The Athletic Council of Davidson College convened on March ninth and several new measures were discussed and passed. Chief among these was that a record book should be compiled containing the names, positions, and activities of all men who have ever had the privilege of wearing the coveted “D” of this college for participation in some major sport. The purpose of this measure is to form ultimately a club consisting of D Club men. This club will fill a long-felt want among the former athletes of Davidson College who find themselves almost entirely forgotten only a short time after they leave the college for the last time. It is essentially just that the memories of the sterling athletes of former times be preserved as a memoriam of the services which they rendered Davidson on the gridiron, the diamond, on the cinder track, or on the basketball court.

The work of compiling this list will be placed in the hands of Mr. M. W. McGill and Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary of Davidson College. The chief source of their material will be found in the old annuals of the college and as an additional source they will correspond with all former captains of Davidson teams in an effort to ascertain the names of those men who made their letters here.

Professional Notices

Phones: Office, 588-- Residence, 65-3

DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST

“Y” Notes

Paddock will visit Davidson next fall. This much was assured by the officials of the Y. M. C. A. “Charlie” will appear here under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. and will give a talk to the students on “The Meaning of Sportsmanship.” “Charlie” hardly needs any introduction to the readers of the Davidsonian. Everybody has kept up with his splendid record that he has been making since the Olympic school he entered the University of Southern California where he proceeded to break his own records for the hundred-yard dash and two-twenty yard dash. At present he holds eleven world’s records and is the fastest living man, amateur or professional. Recently Charlie took up a call, that of the flickering silversheet. All movie goers remember his splendid performance in the “Campus Flirt” with Bebe Daniels. It has even been rumored that he is to become her next husband.

The Y will be glad to help him in this, and if there are any graduate catalogs not available at present in the Y room, the Secretary will be glad to get them at once. Any one who wishes to call, with law firms, etc., Jim Appleby and he will arrange them for you. And do it at once—don’t lose any time.

Don’t forget Dr. Gammon and the Columbia quartet—they’ll be here the first Sunday in April for the Spring meeting. Keep them in mind.

The officials of the Y. M. C. A. stated that they felt very fortunate in getting Mr. Paddock to speak here at Davidson. The exact date of his talk has not yet been determined but Paddock plans to speak at Clemson, University of N. C., Presbyterian College, and two others. His visit to Davidson will probably be in late October. Paddock is on a tour of six colleges in this immediate section.

The speaker at Y on Sunday, March 20th, will be Dr. Jarman, formerly of Chicora College and recently elected Vice-President of Queens, a fine speaker and an inspired follower of the Master.

According to a preliminary announcement just sent out, there will be a conference in this state soon, the like of which has never before been attempted. The name, Human Relations, implies the subjects to be dealt with, namely: 1. International Relations. 2. Interracial Relations. 3. Industrial Relations. Speakers on these subjects are to be brought in from many parts of the country, among whom will be Dr. W. L. Poteat, Joseph Daniels, Dr. James Myers, James W. Johnson, and many others. The program is being arranged and will be sent out in a few days.

Two main lectures, together with classes conducted by the visiting speakers, will be the general type of program although the speakers for each particular day have not been given as yet. If you are interested in this conference, drop by and talk it over with the Y secretary.

The speaker for Y on Sunday, March 27th, will be Bishop Penick, who delivered the baccalaureate sermon last year. That alone ought to be enough to give you some idea of his ability. You can't afford to miss hearing this man.

The Foreign Mission Institute will be held here, starting the last week in April, under the leadership of E. Darby Fulton, who is the traveling Secretary of our own Foreign Missions Board. More later.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

TEAM CHOSEN FOR DEBATES
(Continued from page 1)

Terms have been submitted to Carolina concerning the debate for the freshmen but

Davidson Theatre
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Monday-Tuesday, March 21 and 22
Corinne Griffith in “Three Hours”

Wednesday-Thursday, March 23, 24
John Gilbert in “The Show”

Friday, March 25
Richard Dix in “Paradise for Two”

Saturday, March 26
Priscilla Dean in “Jewels”of Desire,” episode of “The Silent Flyer” a 2 them. Announcement will be made immediately upon completion of the plans. The debating season will be opened when L. K. Pritchett and Henry Powell meet Johns Hopkins at Queens on the night of March 25 concerning a uniform marriage and divorce law. Then, W. K. Pritchett and R. C. Grady will debate with Emory University, of Atlanta in regard to the recognition of Soviet Russia. This debate will also be held at Queens on March 29. Powell and Pritchett will have the opportunity to defend the same question as with Johns Hopkins when they lock horns with Duke in Greensboro. These aforementioned debates together with the Northern trip, the Sewanee, and the Freshman-Carolina debates will constitute the forensic season for Davidson.

Some Questions in Botany
Do potatoes ever get dirt in their eyes?
Does the end of a squash need collar and ties?
Are flower beds made up with blankets also the second and third pair of feet?
—Anonymous.

Returning from that field of endeavor. If there is anyone, however, who has not made his decision, it is not too late for him to do so. Secure appointments with business concerns. Converse Again This will be the Human Relations Institute, to be held at the University of North Carolina on March 20-25, under the general subject matter the Institute will Specialists and prominent speakers on the Forensic Council has heard nothing from And wee lady’s slippers fit what kind Five Old Davidson Men Local “Y” Stages Now Studying at Oxford The Rhodes Scholarship students from America now claim five Davidson graduates. Probably the best known is Robt. Davidson, who while in college, was editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian. He is now a student of Theology at Christ College, Oxford University. This scholarship was established years ago by Cecil Rhodes of South Africa. The scholarship provides funds to pay the expenses of two men from each state, two from the District of Columbia, and students from colonies of England, the provinces of Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and India. Four hundred pounds sterling are given to each Rhodes Scholar annually for a period of three years. The Rhodes Scholars, when they arrive at Oxford, may pursue any branch of graduate work that they wish. Many of the students merely continue in the field in which they majored in college and take work leading to a higher degree so they can become professors in American universities and colleges. Among the fields of work pursued the leading is History. Law ranks second as the favorite study on the part of American students. Rhodes Scholars who have returned to America are now beginning to occupy important posts in universities and colleges in nearly all states of the union. Perhaps the most conspicuous of these is President Aydelotte, of Swarthmore College, Pennsylvania. President Aydelotte is the representative of the Rhodes Scholarship in America. He is the head of a group of former Rhodes Scholars, who are now professors in American schools, who are leading the way to the establishment of an Honors Course in American universities and colleges for high-grade students. Next year’s catalogue of Davidson College will contain an announcement of such a course. It will consist mostly of a reading course for Juniors and Seniors. A committee was appointed several years ago, independent of the Rhodes Scholarship, with Dr. Lingle as Chairman, for the furtherance of the idea which now becomes the new Honors Course. Dr. Lingle has been asked by President Aydelotte to become the representative of Rhodes Scholarships at Davidson. Several Davidson seniors are now planning to take the examinations next year and endeavor to win more glory for Davidson. The men are graded upon, first, intellectual attainments, second, character, and social leadership, and last, athletic prominence. This last is considered the least of the three, the importance being in the order which they are given.

Rastus—"Don't let dem chickens out, Mirandy.”
Mirandy—“Why not, won't dey come home?”
Rastus—“Deed dey won't; dey'll go home!”

Johnnie—“Mother I just seen—”
Mother (reprovingly) “Where’s your grammar?”
Johnnie—“She’s down at the barber shop getting her hair bobbed.”

Christian spoke on “Clean Scholarship,” while Pinkney’s subject was “Clean Speech.” Both men laid stress on the importance of the development of these traits during the high school period. O'Neal, and the Davidson quartet conducted the Young People’s meeting at the First Presbyterian Church in Concord, and at this meeting Flynn and O'Neal also made talks on the subject of “Clean Living.”

WINS OVER NISBET (Continued from page 1)
All in order, and only one more name was added to the list. Zeb Long was nominated from the floor for the office of secretary-treasurer. In the preliminaries Boyce Martin and Lynn McClain were eliminated in the race for the presidency. Bob Kell was elected as one of the vice-presidents by receiving a majority of the votes in the first ballot; all of the other nominees remained in the race for the other vice-presidency. Murray Christian was eliminated in the first ballot in the selection of the secretary-treasurer, but the number of votes cast for each of the three other nominees was so divided that none of them were eliminated. Bulletin: On the second run-over for the election of secretary-treasurer of the student-body, which was run Wednesday morning between Alan Frew and Zeb Long, the latter was declared victorious by a narrow margin. The exact vote in the run-over election was not made known at the time that the announcement of Long’s election was first given out.

Drip—“Whew! I just took a quiz.”
Drop—“Finnish?”
Drip—“No, Spanish.”

VICTORY THEATRE MOORESVILLE, N.C. WEEK OF MARCH 21-27
Monday, 21. The Monkey Talks, a Fox production.
Tuesday, 22. Corporal Kate, with Vera Reynolds.
Wednesday, 23. Let it Rain, with Douglas McLain.
Thursday, 24. An Affair of the Follies, a First National picture.
Friday and Saturday, 25 and 26. Flaming Frontier, a Universal special.

SPRING SPORTS
A complete stock of equipment for Baseball, Track, Golf and Tennis. Wright and Ditson goods in all sports. Forty-eight hours for Racket repair work.
Students Store