Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1927

Whole Face?

Baby face—“You've got the cutest little baby face,” sang Fresh Hampton as he shaved the scattered hairs from his cheeks.

Environment vs. Heredity

Adams—“My watch has gone wrong.”
Jamie Kuykendall—“Result of environment.”

From the Corn Belt

English Tourist—“Pardon, sir, but what do you do with all this corn?”
Farmer—“Well, we eat what we can and what we can’t we can.”
Englishman’s wife—“What did he say, John?”
Englishman—“He said they ate what they could and what they couldn’t they canned.”

Shaw—“What did you make on Chemistry, Westbrook?”
Westbrook—“I made a hundred. Did you pass?”

“Aren’t they a well-mated couple?”
“Yes, indeed. She snores and he is deaf.”

Straight is the line of duty,
Curved is the line of beauty;
Follow the straight and you shall see,
The curved line ever follows thee.

Willie’s reading lesson was about boats. He came to a word that he couldn’t pronounce.
“Barque,” said the teacher.
Willie looked at his classmates and laughed.
“Barque!” exclaimed the teacher the second time.
Willie looked up at his teacher obediently and said, “Bow-wow.”

Chairman at teachers’ meeting—“Gentlemen, we must have order without any further delay.”
Absentminded Prof.—“I'll take an order of ham and eggs, please.”

Kid Long—“I bet you don’t know the difference between polo and croquet.”
O’Neal—“Horses, horses, horses.”

Story—“Gee whiz! What a pretty girl.”
Lake—“Yeah, and I'll bet she’s truthful too.”
Story—“How’s that?”
Lake—“Well, figures don’t lie.”

The roof of the catacombs is not supported by caterpillars.

President Coolidge was playing solitaire one day when Secretary Hoover called to see him. The servant informed Mr. Hoover that the President was playing cards.
“With whom,” inquired the caller.
“Let’s see,” said the servant thoughtfully, “I think it’s with the Chief Spokesman of the DLS.”

Pritchett—“How must I write this piece about dog that’s attacking Freshman?”
Branch—“Aw, just make it snappy.”

With Apologies to J. V. C.

When you meet a young man scarce yet a boy
Whose face has a glamour about it,
Do you teach him to think you a girl, not a toy?
Well maybe you do but I doubt it.

When you have your first date with your new boy friend
There’s always some romance about it;
Do you make it a point his manners to mend?
Well maybe you do but I doubt it.

When a man gives his heart and his hand both to you
With a loyal devotion about it,
Do you take them on the square and play the game through?
Well maybe you do but I doubt it.

Sims—“There’s a man who got shocked in France and now he can’t say a word but you can understand him. Not much chance for him.”
Woodham—“Oh yes. He might get a job at the station calling trains.”

Hudgins—“Have you heard my new hurdle song?”
Simpson—“No, what is it?”
Hudgins—“I can’t get over a girl like you.”

TRACK PRACTICE

Being led on by Captain Goodykoontz and John Currie, track practice at Davidson is progressing very rapidly. The very spring-like weather of last week brought many new...

---men out to practice and now there are about 50, including freshmen, turning out for the daily training. Coach Tilson has prospects for a great team and is working hard to make it an even better one than that of last year. As soon as warm weather comes permanently, more strenuous practice will ensue, and training will begin more rigidly.

The assistant managers have been doing hard work on the track in preparing runways and jumping pits. The pit is constructed in front of the stadium, on the edge of the track, with runways on each side running parallel to the stadium. These will be used for pole-vaulting and broad-jumping. The high jumpers will come from the football field toward the stadium. Work was begun on these constructions some time ago so as to have them in readiness for the invitation High School meet which is to be held on Richardson Field, March 19. The Davidson Freshmen will also enter this meet.

Freshman track prospects are not very well known as no official practice has begun, but many of the first-year men are out and working hard.

I've got on jimmy-pipe joy and found it better! When you light up—ah!... no other tobacco is like it! P. A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see:

QUICK SERVICE
CHARLOTTE
GREENVILLE
ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

BEST PRICES

Agent for:
VERNON S. BROYLES
Charlotte, N. C.

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA, $300.00
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.