TIED AVA SONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 17, 1927 No. 10

State Beats Duke to Cinch Coveted Championship Flag

In winning the game with Duke University last Friday by a score of 20-18, North Carolina State completed a clear
title to the football championship of the state. State’s sensational come-back after several years of weak football not only gained
the state championship for the team but places it third in the list of Southern Conference teams and gives it
the right to dispute Georgia’s record and place on the list. The clash with Duke was the center of attraction
in the state football circles this year, for two of the most prominent backs in the state met in opposition.
Jack McDowall, halfback for State, and “Jan” Janoski, fullback for Duke, played an intensely thrilling game against each other, although
McDowall is believed to have established a record in the game that will take its place in the most prominent
personal grid records in all Southern football history. McDowall made a total of 190 yards by running and 111 by
forward passes, not including his gains in scrimmage. Janoski piled up 95 yards in scrimmage, and Sam Buie gained 64
yards on passes and 73 in scrimmage.

When Coach Gus Tebell summed up the record of the Wolfpack at the end of the brilliant game last Friday,
he found that the only black mark against State for the entire season was made by Furman, and that the
Pack had triumphed over all the Conference teams played this season, besides winning the championship of the Big Five. Starting
out cautiously at the first of the season, State rapidly worked up in all respects, finally becoming invincible in the
end. Coach Tebell stated that all the games were played in almost a graduated order, coming to a high (Continued
on page 2)

Wildcats Prove Threat But Bow Before Stellar Aerial Offensive of Tar Heels

Tom and Min Accompany Boys on Wildcat Special

Pugcdies to Chapel Hill on Special Enlivened by Various Amusements

No Davidson man’s career is complete without a trip on a “special.” Every year the fellows look forward with much
anticipation to the running of this train, for it signifies a good time for everybody. It also means a good
football game, usually the annual scrap with Carolina. This year, so many men intended to bum over to the game
that a little difficulty was experienced in obtaining the required number to make up the train. However, when the time
rolled around enough men checked in to insure the “special,” and everything was ready for the big jaunt. At seven-thirty
Saturday morning, the old joy ride began.

Two very distinguished and important beings accompanied the boys, these being none other than Tom and Min, the new inhabitants
of the Wildcat fair. Their brightly painted cage was placed on the rear platform of the train, and these actual
embodiments of the ’Cat spirit seemed very well pleased indeed. It was a great piece of work to take the
wildcats to the game, and this will be done whenever possible, for it adds immeasurably to the spirit of the
occasion. Doctor Charlie was present with all the rabbit feet that Mecklenburg County could supply, and he was confident that
his “boys” would tame the Tar Heels in a decisive manner. That little bit of driftwood, “Fat” (Continued on page
2)

Potential Power of Man is Theme of Doctor Vander Meulen’s Vesper Talk

Gaining the attention of the audience by remarking upon the tear drops caused by the running of the thin paint
with which some zealous student, in the spirit of the last football season, painted the words “State Champs” on the
curtain above the platform, Dr. Vander Meulen, President of the Presbyterian Theological Seminary of Kentucky, opened the fall evangelical services
of the Y. M. C. A. Sunday evening. Dr. Vander Meulen, at the request of the pastor, had preached to
the students and congregation earlier in the day, but the talk made in Shearer was the first of the four-day
series. He took his text from the 26th chapter, the 25th verse of Matthew: “And Judas who betrayed Him, answered
and said, ‘Is it I?’”

The central theme in Dr. Vander Meulen’s talk was the potential power that each man possesses, both as regards the
possibility of working good and of working evil. Anything, such as war and politics, which affords a radical change in
either the vocation or avocation of a man, has the ability to bring out his potential power. The Civil War
made Grant, who had rated towards the bottom of his class at West Point, the most comprehensive of Northern generals
and later the President of the Union. The same war developed Stonewall Jackson, in his boyhood a penniless orphan, into
a firm and upright general, admired and feared by the enemy.

But Dr. Vander Meulen states that although radical change in the intellectual side of man may be brought about by
a different vocation or avocation, the change in the moral make-up of man gives us far greater surprises. Conversion of
the man to belief in and service of his Master holds possibilities of bringing about a dynamic change in the
character of the man. This statement is supported by many concrete examples in the lives of such men as Billy
Sunday and Mel Trotter. But there are many men and women on earth going about as common people, who, if
the necessary circumstances occurred, would become persons of profound influence. The lack of stimulus is the cause of many men
not “coming out.” The mother knows not what her baby might do in after life. It might become a great
leader; it might become a traitor to its country or to its faith. History is full of mature men who
have done things which they never thought was in them. Mathew Arnold is one example, Oliver Cromwell another. Judas Iscariot
thought that it was impossible that he should be the one that should betray his Master when he said, “Is
it I?”

At this point Dr. Vander Meulen gave his theme its practical and personal application. He says that no man knows
the potential power that he has—he has no idea of what is in him. It is possible that he has
the capacity for a great leader, or again a failing that would make him a traitor to his trust, despised
by himself and by men. He should put to himself the question, “Is it I?” Bigger men than he himself
have gone down in the clutches of sin. Sin has two accounts—the evolutional and the Biblical. The evolutionist says that
sin is the remnant of the animal that is within us. The Biblical account says that sin is due to
suggestion, a mighty tool in the hands of the master of deceivers—the devil.

Some men are illusioned in thinking that they do not need the help of the Lord. They are badly in
need of it. Other men who have thought the same thing have been unconscious of their gradual slipping as they
sink deeper into sin. God did not intend for man to go unaided by His help.

Game Marks Opening of New Kenan Stadium With Seating Capacity of 24,000

The opening of the new Kenan stadium, football arena of this section, at the University of North Carolina, proved quite
a success from the Tar Heels’ point of view, as they christened it Saturday afternoon with a 27-0 victory over
the fighting Wildcats of Davidson College. Some say that the Wildcats were taken off their feet by the spectacle of
such magnificent surroundings, others opine that the spirit at the University at this opening game as evidenced by the student
body gave new life to the team, and they could not be beaten. But the ultimate conclusion is that the
Tar Heels, scoffed by many supporters, drubbed by many teams, and generally ground into the dirt, pulled their greatest exhibition
of football during the present season to lick the Presbyterian organization, and showed that they still knew what a football
was for as they played a heads-up game, taking advantage of every opportunity.age of all chances to score and many
times thrilled the 9,000 spectators as they made sensational plays. The brand new field, which was so nice and smooth
before the game, was somewhat ruffled after the fracas, marking a more grim struggle than the 27-0 score indicated. Upon
two occasions it looked as though their goal line would be darkened by the shadow of the Wildcat, but upon
those same two occasions the Carolina team held, taking possession of the ball once only a brace of inches from
the final stripe. The team of the Tar Heels forgot that they were heralded as the team that could get
within scoring distance of the opponents and then fail on account of a deficiency of the final punch. It was
necessary for them to expend all their energy to push the ball across the line of the Wildcats, but they
gave that energy without a grudge. After the Presbyterians had gotten off to a bad start, they fought a great
battle, only to fall as they have fallen before, as a result of a passing attack that took them off
their feet. And it was these passes that spelled defeat for the Davidson team as they went through the line
of the Carolina team for sizable gains upon many occasions, only to lose what advantage they had garnered in one
power-

(Continued on page 8)

Medicine Stands as Favorite Profession With Davidsonians

By a review of the records in the office of Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar of the college, interesting figures
concerning the professions chosen by the students are found. It is seen that of the student body of over 600
members here at Davidson, the largest number are to enter the medical practice as a life work. One hundred and
six have made this their choice. Those choosing business careers number 99. The ministry has a following of 81 of
the students, and law will claim 51. Forty-five aspire to be teachers and 25 are looking forward to engineering. Of
the remaining men nine are to be medical missionaries; nine are to be chemists; eight, accountants; seven, journalists; four, farmers;
three, architects; two will enter the lumber business; and dentistry and the navy will each take one. One hundred and
seventy-seven students are yet undecided as to what their life work will be.

DR. J. M. VANDER MEULEN

Fine Art of Sympathy Youth’s Greatest Need, Says Dr. Vander Meulen

During the week-day meetings of the annual life service series sponsored by the Y. M. C. A., Dr. Vander Meulen,
president of Louisville Theological Seminary, gripped the entire student body with the forcefulness of his messages. His words have already
shown an effect upon the college, his straightforward statements making a profound impression. Monday morning, Dr. Vander Meulen spoke to
students on the subject of hypocrisy. He emphasized the fact that a man must be strongly for Christ or strongly
against him; there is no middle ground in the Bible. There are those who name themselves Christians but whose actions
are not consistent with their professions. These people begin to slip, and their moral fibres soften and

(Continued on page 8)

Hengeveld Coaches Basketball Men in Pre-Season Trials

Varsity basketball practice, under the supervision of Dutch Hengeveld, began last Monday afternoon, with four letter men and a large
squad of aspirants. The coaching will be in the hands of Dutch Hengeveld until after football season, when the squad
will be turned over to Coach Monk Younger. Captain Ben Wilson, at center, and Harrison, forwards, are the letter men
from last year’s team. Andy Hewlett, a letter man of 1925, will be back again this year. Pritchett, Moore, Johnson,
McGavock, Miller, Mauzey, and Baker from last year's Fresh team, are among those out for the squad. Pat Crawford, Kugler,
Ohseik and Monroe, who were on the squad last year, will be back. Four letter men have been lost by
graduation. The loss of Captain Anderson, Simpson, Hudgins and Calhoun from the varsity will leave a big gap to be
filled by new material. There will be a hard fight for the coveted positions between those men called out this
year. Those men now out will not necessarily constitute the squad as many men, who are now out for football,
will go out when football season closes and Coach Younger takes charge. In all probability, one cut will be made
before Coach Monk takes over the reins. The main purpose of this pre-season work under the able leadership of Mr.
Hengeveld, is to get a line on the men, cut the number to a smaller group and to prepare the
varsity men. As has been the custom, the men selected for tryouts, were picked from those doing exceptional work in
class basketball. This year, class basketball was coached by mem-

(Continued on page 3)

Collegiate Press Association Formed for Benefit of Student Publications

G. C. W. GLEE CLUB TONIGHT

Greensboro College for Women will be represented on the Davidson College campus tonight by its Glee Club. The evening's entertainment
will begin at 7:30, in Shearer. No definite program has been announced; the past reputation of the G. C. W.
Glee Club is, however, sufficient to ensure a very highly enjoyable evening’s entertainment to all those who attend. Two years
ago this same Glee Club came to Davidson sponsored by the Junior class, the class of ’26. An especial feature
of the presentation given two years ago was the singing of Miss Gwendalyn Mitchell. Miss Mitchell will return with the
Glee Club to fill the present engagement, as the assistant director of the club. Davidson College is the first stop
on an extended tour of the South that the Glee Club has planned for this fall. After the evening’s entertainment
at Davidson the Glee Club intends to go straight South, filling on the way several engagements in this state. There
are about 25 girls, extremely good looking, that go to make up the Greensboro College for Women’s Glee or Choral
Club. Gilman Alexander is the official director of the club and Miss Gwendolyn Mitchell is his assistant. As has been
stated before, Miss Mitchell has been a member of the club for several years. The Junior class is sponsoring the
evening’s entertainment and all thanks for securing the engagement is due them. Reno the Magician, who so ably entertained a
large audience of students a few nights ago, was also brought here under the sponsorship of the class of ’29.
Last year the Junior class was able to secure several engagements with several of the girls’ colleges in this state,
notably that of the Converse Glee Club,

(Continued on page 2)

At the recent convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, held at Raleigh, there was launched an organization which
is to be called the Collegiate Press. This will serve the newspapers of the colleges in the same manner as
the Associated Press serves the large newspapers of the country. The present plan is to have one man on the
staff of each college newspaper serve as correspondent for his paper. This correspondent will accumulate all news of interest and
mail it to other correspondents of papers to whom he thinks it would be of interest. Because there is no
standard date for publication of college newspapers of this state, the correspondent will have a great deal of work to
do in order to mail the news out as fast as it accumulates, otherwise it would fast become useless, especially
since one of the college publications of this state is a tri-weekly paper. Differing from the Associated Press, an organization
which it is modelled after, the Collegiate Press will have no mechanical devices, such as cables, automatic telegraph machines, and
a cross-continental system of wires. Mail service would be used entirely to keep institutions in touch with each other, and
each paper will bear the expense of mailing copy to other papers, receiving in return the same service from them.
The plan is looked upon with a favorable comment from students, because it will furnish news of schools in which
they are interested and possibly of students whom they know and are interested in. It will likewise serve to advertise
the schools that send out the news. The new organization is sponsored by the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, with
A. L. Aydieth, of State College, as its first president, and H. A. Honets as its

(Continued on page 2)
