THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1927

GLEE CLUB ENTERS

From this meeting, the club will enter a larger contest in the spring. This contest, which is to be held in New York, is sponsored by the National organization of Salve Voltuse. In connection with the trip to Durham, the Davidson Glee Club will appear at N. C. C. W. Arrangements are also being made with a view toward engagements between Davidson and Durham, including Salisbury, High Point, and Winston-Salem. It is being planned also that an appearance be made in Lynchburg, Va., if possible. Regarding this, however, nothing has been definitely decided as yet. The club expects to be away from the campus for five to seven days.

At a recent meeting of the State Inter-Collegiate Glee Club Association, Prof. E. J. Cullem, of the Davidson faculty and the director of the college glee club, was elected secretary of that organization. Other officers chosen were: P. W. Price, the director of music at N. C. State, as president; J. F. Barnes, of the Duke musical staff, vice-president; and Max Noah, of Guilford College, treasurer.

Only Grass Infield in State Davidson’s Boast

Manager Link Begins Pre-Season Work on Diamond

For the past two months, the work of improving the baseball diamond has been going on. Under the supervision of Bob Link, manager of baseball, the Junior and Sophomore managers have been carrying on the task. The work of sifting sand, elevating, and leveling the ground is about two-thirds completed and will be finished sometime before the Christmas holidays. This will give the field ample time to settle before the season starts. Davidson has an excellent diamond, it being the only one in the state with a grass infield; and present improvements will put the field in the best possible condition.

Girls’ Club Honors

Miss Sarah Lingle was entertained several days ago by the Girls’ Club at their first meeting of the fall. There were 12 young ladies present. After all had assembled, the guests were invited into the dining room to be served a delightful luncheon. The table was decorated with pink roses and pink candles. Each favor had written upon it the names of Miss Sarah Lingle and Mr. Robert Garth. The hostess chose this method to announce the engagement of Miss Lingle to Mr. Garth. At Miss Lingle’s place lay a beautiful shoulder corsage, which had been provided by her fiancé.

Among the many dishes served were delicious heart-shaped cakes, very appropriate for the occasion. Mr. Garth has been a member of the faculty of Columbia University for four years. He now holds a position on the faculty of Hunter College, which is located in New York City. He is carrying on research work there. Miss Lingle is the daughter of Dr. T. W. Lingle, professor of French at Davidson. Miss Lingle is herself a distinguished linguist. She has studied many languages abroad, specializing in French. She has held a position on the faculty of Converse College as an instructor of French. As yet, no definite date has been set for the marriage, but it is expected to take place sometime during the ensuing winter.

Whosoever attracts into the bonds of marriage any male subject of His Majesty by means of rouge or powder, perfumes, false teeth, false hair, steel corsets, hooped petticoats, high heels, or false hips will be prosecuted for sorcery and the marriage will be declared null and void if the accused is convicted! — Old French statute.

AT THE THEATRES

CARO

THURS.
5 ACTS
Keith Vaudeville
Feature - Comedy - News

FRI. SAT.

MON. TUES. WED.
BEBE DANIELS IN SHE’S A SHEIK
There are two ways to win a man---to be a shy wallflower or a kidnapping kid! What was Bebe? “SHE’S A SHEIK!”
Comedy - News

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
Madge Bellamy in “Very Confidential”

WEDNESDAY
Esther Ralston in “The Spotlight”

THURSDAY
Glenn Tryon in “Painting the Town”

FRIDAY
“The Gay Retreat,” Featuring the two comedians of What Price Glory

SATURDAY
Ken Maynard in “Gun Gospel”

“Y” Column

The annual Fall Life-Campaign of the Y will start this Sunday under the direction of Dr. Vander Meulen, President of Louisville Theological Seminary. These services will start at Vespers Sunday and will continue through Wednesday. The speaker is a man who is very well known throughout the South and one who will bring stirring and inspirational messages to Davidson men. He is a fine speaker and preacher and a deep thinker, but at the same time, he is always ready to advise and help young men with their problems and difficulties. He understands the troubles that are apt to arise in the life of a college man, and he is ably fitted to counsel anyone and aid them greatly in solving some particular thing that might be bothering them.

If you would care to talk to Dr. Vander Meulen and have an interview with him, just tell Bill Hill or Camp O’Neal, and it will be arranged at a time that will be agreeable to both. Dr. Vander Meulen has expressly stated that he is anxious to learn to know as many Davidson men as he can, and he feels that these interviews will be the best way of learning to intimately know a number of students here. So don’t fail to have an appointment made if you care to talk to him.

The Y feels very fortunate in having Dr. Vander Meulen as the leader of this series of services and hopes that the student body will remember the Y and its work in their prayers and lend it hearty support, especially by making the attendance at these meetings large. A great work can be done on the Davidson campus, but it will take the efforts and endeavor of the entire school to make the Master’s work a success. So let’s pitch in and give Dr. Vander Meulen good audiences.

A deputation will be sent to Concord this week to assist the Concord Y in the observance of Prayer Week. This week of prayer keeps the great power of prayer before the people of the community.

The Y has no way to judge the interest that the student body has in the work of the Y. M. C. A., unless it is...by the attendance at the Sunday Vesper services, and the officers feel that the speakers ought to be given a hearing by more than have been attending the services of late. The number that heard Dr. Gammon, an excellent speaker and a great preacher, fell below any so far this year, and represented only a small part of the student body. The Y feels that the men that come here to speak at Y are some of the best speakers and leaders in the South, all of whom have something worth hearing. So let’s try to come out to Y and you'll feel that your time has been well spent. It’s easy to remember Shearer at 6:15 Vespers. Do your part in the work of the Master—be there.

McDOWALL AND WARREN
(Continued from page one)

portune run gaining 25 yards and placing the ball on the 10-yard line of the Wolfpack and consequently in a position to score. As the game opened Davidson kicked to State, who took the ball and on line plays failed to gain and punted to Davidson. After another exchange of punts, the ball was in the hands of the Presbyterians on their own 40-yard marker, and after failing to gain they lost a slight advantage as Grey fluked a punt out of bounds for no gain. State took the ball and hard driving against the Davidson line availed them nothing and punts were exchanged and the ball was in State’s possession with 80 yards between them and the Davidson goal. This distance was lessened by 25 yards as Warren went off tackle on the first play. Hunsucker and Warren made two more first downs, and a pass to Goodwin put the ball 10 yards from the goal. After two plays had failed to gain, another pass from McDowall to Goodwin, who waited over the goal line, was good for the first six points. Adams’ kick for extra point failed. Then came a break that put a fire of hope in the hearts of the Davidson supporters as State fumbled on their 35-yard line and Davidson recovered. But the hopes were short-lived as three plays availed the ’Cats nothing and they were forced to kick.

The most spectacular gain of the day came early in the second quarter. After State had made a first down, McDowall took the ball on an end run and got by the entire Davidson defense. But Harrison and Grey, fast Davidson backs, immediately started in pursuit, the former diving for the fleeting McDowall and slowing him down and Grey downed him only eight yards from the goal line. He had gained 65 yards. Another pass from McDowall to Goodwin went over for the second touchdown. In the third quarter Davidson opened up with line plays that were sensational. After punts had been exchanged Harrison went off tackle for 25 yards, to be followed by a run by Grey that put the ball 10 yards from the goal. A line play failed to gain and a penalty was inflicted on State. The driving Nisbet took the ball on the next play and took it over. The kick for extra point failed and the Davidson scoring for the day was over. In the last quarter State continued their passing which netted them two more touchdowns. McDowall took the ball and raced across the field with tacklers all around him, jumped high in the air and seemed to be able to hit a dime time after time. A long pass to Goodwin was good for the final touchdown and another pass over the goal line garnered the extra point. The rumored weak line of State proved to be rather strong in this game, and the entire team gave their leaders great assistance. McDowall, Warren and Goodwin were a phenomenal trio. Harrison and Grey were the shining lights of the Davidson team. Melton, Jim Grey and McColgan played good games in the line.

The line-up and summary:
N.C. State. Position. Davidson
Goodwin .......... LE .......... Arrowood
T. McConnell .... LT .......... R. McConnell
Nicholson (C) ... RG .......... Melton
McDowall ........ QB .......... Grey (C)
Hunsucker ....... LH .......... Harrison
Wratten .......... FB .......... Nesbit

Score by quarters:
State .............. 6 6 0 13—25
Davidson ........ 0 0 6 0—6

Substitutions: State—None. Davidson—Grey, Baker, Hampton, McGeachy, Hunt, Kell, Black. Officials: Goochy (Virginia), referee; Carrington (Virginia), umpire; Poindexter (Carolina), headlinesman.

RECORD OF PAST
(Continued from page one)

1901—Carolina 6 Davidson 0
1902—Carolina 27 Davidson 0
1904—Carolina 0 Davidson 0
1906—Carolina 0 Davidson 0
1908—Carolina 0 Davidson 0
1910—Carolina 0 Davidson 6
1911—Carolina 5 Davidson 0
1912—Carolina 13 Davidson 0
1913—Carolina 16 Davidson 3
1914—Carolina 7 Davidson 0
1915—Carolina 41 Davidson 6
1916—Carolina 10 Davidson 6
1918—Carolina 7 Davidson 14
1919—Carolina 10 Davidson 0
1920—Carolina 0 Davidson 7
1921—Carolina 0 Davidson 0
1922—Carolina 29 Davidson 6
1923—Carolina 14 Davidson 3
1924—Carolina 6 Davidson 0
1925—Carolina 13 Davidson 0
1926—Carolina 0 Davidson 10

W. P. Lamons, ’26, who has been with Reaves Infirmary at Greensboro for some time, is now at Knoxville, Tenn.; Box 1235. He recently returned from a midwestern trip with his wife and young son. M. S. Beall, ’25, is now at his home at Durham, after working in Washington, D. C., for two years.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.