THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1927

-- Sport Talk -:- News and Views of Wildcat Events By Raymond Lake

Davidson 12, Florida 0! Last week when we began this column with Davidson 5, Citadel 0, we felt like great
things had been done, but now the doings of last week seem like a “mere trifle.” There’s only one thing
that could be greater, and that would be to “down every foe then” in the fashion that the strong ’Gator
eleven was forced to bite the dust last week. That game must have been a wonder. The fighting Wildcats were
outweighed and had the odds against them, overwhelming odds. The old Wildcat spirit just couldn’t be downed, though, and the
Florida ’Gators suffered one of the greatest surprises they've ever suffered.

In our opinion there’s just one thing that goes down to the root of the matter and explains “how the
Wildcats did it,” and that one thing is the fact that the Wildcat coaches; the ones who have trained this
team and made it what it is, are “Monk” and “Tex.” From the reports of those who saw the game,
there were 11 stars on the field during the entire afternoon. There were no individual stars. The whole team was
determined to win that game, and by working together as a team they realized their ambition. With this fact in
view, and realizing that for lack of space we cannot take up every member of the team individually, we mention
a few of the stars as representatives of the whole team.

It looked like they just couldn’t stop Charlie Harrison. He broke loose for long gains several times during the game,
and, although he did not make either of the touchdowns, it was largely through his work that the ball was
brought to within striking distance of the goal. When once he got started, they just couldn’t stop him till he
had clipped off a few yards at least. Two of the most exciting times during the game for those hearing
the returns at the gym were when the reports came in that “Charlie Harrison is on his way down the
field,” and then a few minutes later when the distance he had gained was announced.

Nisbet, as usual, made consistent gains through the line. We've often heard the question of how Nisbet plows through the
line as he does when he appears to be so light for a fullback, brought up. Well, we don’t know
how he does it. All we know is that he does do it and does it consistently. Probably as good
an explanation as any would be that he’s a fighting Wildcat and has that old Wildcat Spirit, and that “Monk”
Younger showed him how.

Flinn’s spectacular work was one of the features of the game. He didn’t play the whole game but while he
was in there he surely showed what he’s got. Almost as soon as he got in he broke loose and
put the ball over the line. As has been said, every man on the team did his part toward making
those two touchdowns, but Flinn carried it across. The other touchdown was made by none other than Captain Grey. We've
heard several persons lamenting the fact that Dick was not able to make his kicks good, but why worry about
that? He made a touchdown.

In our opinion, if the team can keep up the good work and show up during the rest of the
games this season like they did last week, we've got a mighty good chance to put a man on the
all-Southern team, and an even better chance to win the state championship again. There may be some few who will
want to detract from the glory of the Wildcats by saying that the Florida team was not in shape and
that Davidson got all the breaks. As has been said, we didn’t see the game, but from the reports of
those who did see it, it was not a question of breaks, nor of luck of any kind. The Wildcats
simply fought like Wildcat teams fight and the best team won.

The Florida spirit seems to have been as great and fine in defeat as was the Wildcat spirit in victory.
The Florida Freshmen carried the victorious team off the field and the Florida spirit in general seems to have been
mighty fine—Such spirit is to be commended. The Wildcats enjoy playing teams.

Fourteen Runners Begin Cross Country Program Martin and Ely Unable to Come Out

A call was issued last Thursday to candidates for the cross-country team which is beginning its fifth season at Davidson.
Until last year no recognition was given to those on this team, and this fact made it popular only with
those who planned to go out for one of the distances in spring track and used this only as a
means of getting in condition. The Athletic Board saw that if this sport was to develop, if Davidson hoped to
compete on more equal terms with other colleges, something must be done to stimulate the interest of the student body.
To this end they, last year, offered minor letters and at the end of the season awarded them to Penn,
captain, Treveton, Webb, Martin and Ely.

This idea bore fruit Thursday, when in answer to the call of “Dutch” Wearn, track manager, 17 “Wildcats” of assorted
sizes and shapes appeared, clad in sweat-shirts and duck trousers, ready for the work before them, that of conditioning themselves
for a run of three and a half miles over a course which in some cases would constitute a test
for one of “Henry’s single-footers.” For the greater part these men are all new material, although Sloop, Brownell and McGeehee
had some practice and competed in several meets of last season. Martin, who was third ranking member of the team
last year, was out for the first few practices, but was unable to continue, while John Ely, who is also
a letter man in this sport, will be unable to come out because of an operation.

The squad, however, is strengthened by several distance men from last year’s Freshman team who are showing up well, and
they are expected to be in first-class condition by the time of the first meet. These men are Newnan, Treveton,
and Lafferty, who were awarded numerals in the mile, and Goodwin, in the 880. Besides these there are several others
who have a good chance to take the places of Penn, Treveton and Webb, who graduated, and of Martin and
Ely, who will not be able to run this year. The following is a complete list of those out: Sloop,
Brownell, Jarratt, Newnan, Treveton, Lafferty, Beavers, Helms, Russel, E. B., Russel, H. F., McGeehee, Wilkinson, McCall and Goodwin.

The schedule as it now stands will consist of three meets. The first will be held here with Wofford, October
15th, and will probably be run during the halves of the Davidson-Elon football game. Another meet has been scheduled with
Duke for the morning of Home-Coming Day, while the third will be with State at Greensboro.

DR. MARTIN ATTENDS LOG (Continued from page 1)

this anniversary. At this celebration a monument was unveiled commemorating the 200th anniversary. All the schools directly or indirectly descended
from Log College had their names engraved upon this monument. The name of Davidson College was among these.

STATISTICS ON FLORIDA GAME

Gained through line: Florida, 78 yards; Davidson, 115 yards.
Gained end runs: Florida, 38 yards; Davidson, 116 yards.
Gained passes: Florida, 82 yards; Davidson, 15 yards.
Gained returned punts: Florida, 25 yards; Davidson, 70 yards.
Gained on intercepted passes: Flor-Ida, 0 yards; Davidson, 30 yards.
Last from scrimmage: Florida, 9 yards; Davidson, 32 yards.
Net gain in all departments (punts excluded): Florida, 214 yards; Davidson, 314 yards.
Punts: Florida, 300 yards; Average, 43 yards. Davidson, 352 yards; Average, 44 yards.
Penalties: Florida, 20 yards; Davidson, 5 yards.

Report of Davidson-Florida Game Heard Saturday By Many Students and Visitors
Excitement Reigns as Favorable Reports Come in
HARRISON STARS
Reports of Game Wired Back From Side-Lines By Ernest Milton

Startling the entire sporting population of the South, the speedy Davidson team emerged victorious by a goodly margin of two
touchdowns after her invasion of the University of Florida’s stronghold. This win, which took place on Fleming Field, Gainesville, Florida,
October 1st, will make the prowess of Davidson’s scrappy team better known all over the South. The following is the
detailed, play-by-play report of the game:

First Quarter
Stanley, of Florida, kicked off at 3:05 o'clock, to Grey, on Davidson’s 10-yard line, who returned it 18 yards. Grey
punted 10 yards out of bounds. Florida’s ball on Davidson’s 40-yard line. Bowyer hit tackle for 4 yards. Cawthorn made
3 yards at center. Bowyer circled right end for 5 yards. First down, Florida’s ball on Davidson’s 20-yard line. Goodbread
got 2 yards at left guard. Cawthorn failed to gain through the line. Goodbread was thrown for a 3-yard loss
by Arrowood. Pass to Goodbread netted 5 yards, but the ball went over to Davidson on downs. Grey lost 1
yard at right end. Grey kicked to Florida’s 20-yard line, where the ball fell dead. Goodbread got 2 yards around
right end, but the ball was called back as both teams were offside. Cawthorn failed to gain through center, and
then made another unsuccessful effort. Bishop punted 35 yards to Grey, who returned 7 yards. Davidson's ball on their own
48-yard line. Nesbit got 1 yard through center. Harrison circled right end. Grey punted 42 yards out of bounds. Florida’s
ball on their own 18-yard line. Bowyer went around right end for 8 yards. Cawthorn made 2 yards and first
down through the line. Goodbread went around right end for 4 yards. Bowyer got 2 yards at left guard. Goodbread
made 1 yard through the line. Bishop punted 55 yards to Davidson’s 20-yard line, where Dehoff downed the ball. Davidson’s
ball on their own 20-yard line. Harrison got 1 yard at left end. Grey punted 60 yards to Bowyer, who
returned 20 yards to Davidson’s 49-yard line. Goodbread made no gain at right tackle. Bowyer passed to Bishop, but Bishop
caught it out of bounds, and the referee ruled it an incomplete pass. Bowyer tossed a 5-yard pass to Stanley,
who traveled 10 yards before being stopped. Bowyer made 3 yards and went out of bounds. Bowyer hurled a 25-yard
pass to Dehoff, who was downed on Davidson’s 3-yard line. Florida’s ball, first down and goal to go. Cawthorn fumbled
and lost 5 yards, as the quarter ended. Score: Florida, 0; Davidson, 0.

Second Quarter
Florida’s ball on Davidson’s 8-yard line, second down. Cawthorn made 3 yards over right tackle. Bowyer hit the line for
3 yards. Ball on the 2-yard line, fourth down. Bowyer passed over the goal line to Goodbread, but it was
incomplete. Ball goes over to Davidson on their own 20-yard line. Nesbit fumbled and lost 5 yards. Grey punted 25
yards to Bowyer, who returned 5. Florida’s ball on Davidson's 46-yard line. Goodbread (Continued on page 3)

BIG FIVE SCORERS
Player. College. Td. Ex.Pt. F.G. T'l.
1—Janoski, Duke . 5 30
2—Adams, State .. 2 12
3—Warren, State . 2 12
4—Grey, R., Dav.. 1
5—Outen, State .. 1
6—Flynn, Dav. --. 1
7—Goodwin, State.1
8—Cox, W. F.--.. 1
9—Fenell, Car. -.. 1
10—James, W. F... 0
11—M’Connell, Dav.*0
12—Schuler, Car. - 0
13—Buie, Duke ..-..0
14—Kelly, Duke ___"0
*Safety.

Wildcats Meet Terriers in Third Game Saturday
To Play South Carolina Team in Spartanburg

On October 5th the Wildcats make another trip into foreign territory, going to Spartanburg to play the Wofford Terriers. This
will be Wofford’s first game on their home field this season, and also Home-Coming Day for the South Carolina school.
The combination of these two events is expected to bring forth a big crowd for the game. Last year the
Wildcats won from the Terriers by the score of 26 to 0. Joe McConnell featured in this game by intercepting
a forward pass and running 60 yards for a touchdown, the only touchdown that he had scored in his college
career. Wofford has always given Davidson a fight when they have played, and the Davidson coaches are not expecting an
easy victory. Thus far in the season the Terriers have made a fair showing, tying Erskine College, 6 to 6,
who in turn held the University of South Carolina to one touchdown. Against V. M. I., Wofford was not so
successful, losing the game by the score of 35 to 0.

In contrast with the showing of the Wofford team, Davidson’s showing has been fine, starting off the season with a
5 to 0 victory over The Citadel, when the reliable toe of Dick Grey kicked a field goal and “Tut”
McConnell fell on a blocked kick to score two points. Following this victory the Wildcats journeyed down to the University
of Florida to defeat the ’Gators by a score of 12 to 0, upsetting all dope, and surprising all the
followers of the two teams and of football in general.

OPPONENTS’ SCORES
Duke ..22.22.- 25 Boston College 9
Tennessee ----- 26 UNC ---- 0
Wake Forest _. 0 Elon ---- 0
VPI ---- 0 Ga. Tech. ---- 7
Mercer ---- 6 The Citadel ---- 0
Wofford ---- 6 Erskine ---- 6
Furman ---- 20 State ---- 0

Freshmen to Meet Oak Ridge Saturday

The Davidson Wildkittens will open their football season with the strong Oak Ridge team Saturday. The game will be played
on foreign territory for the Davidson boys, and against a team who has been in action once before this season.
Teams from Oak Ridge always put up a formidable defense and it is seldom that their offense falls below that
of their opponents. In their game last Saturday with the Duke University Freshmen, they put up an offense that downed
the little Blue Devils to the tune of 12 to 7. The Oak Ridge boys, led by Captain Goodson and
his teammates, Beaver, Frazier, and Howard, got around and through the Duke line for consistent gains. The Davidson Frosh, although
not experienced as a team, have been running after the legs of the Varsity since the first week of school.
The Wildkittens have a comparatively strong team but little reserve material. The probable Davidson line-up is as follows:
Ends: Proctor and Gilliam
Tackles: Covington and Kuykendall
Guards: Brock and Fosl
Quarterback: McCall
Halfbacks: Goodykoontz and David
Fullback: Fraley

STUDENTS’ PHOTOS (Continued from page one)
the work and confusion that accompanies such work. Last year about 15 pictures were taken to the hour, but this
year there will be only seven to the hour, in order to get better pictures.

The Students Store
Where the gang gathers to enjoy their restful moments after periods of study. Come down and join the bunch. You'll
appreciate their fellowship more. And we have Plenty of Eats, Drinks, and Smokes to make the occasion enjoyable.
Meet the gang at The Students Store. It’s yours, why not patronize it?
