THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 29, 1927

——$——

Alumni Secretary Goes to Georgia and Florida Visiting Associations

Alumni to Attend Davidson-Florida Game

FOUR BANQUETS

Milton to Cover Much Territory During Trip Visiting and Organizing Associations

Ernest Milton, general alumni secretary of Davidson College, left Monday night for an extended tour of Georgia and Florida for
the purpose of meeting with local alumni associations in these states. He will be away from the college until next
Monday evening, the alumni office meanwhile being in charge of Harllee Branch, Jr., assistant alumni secretary.

Mr. Milton first visited Atlanta, Ga., where he was the guest and principal speaker at a Davidson alumni banquet, given
at the Henry Grady Hotel on Tuesday evening. The banquet, which was arranged by Dr. J. Bonar White, ’10, president,
and Mr. H. M. Askew, 1900, secretary of the Atlanta alumni association, was attended by the majority of Davidson alumni
in Atlanta and north Georgia, the total number of Davidson alumni in this section being in excess of 125.

From Atlanta Mr. Milton went to Jacksonville, where he was the guest of honor at an organization banquet of Davidson
alumni, residing in Jacksonville and vicinity Wednesday evening. The Jacksonville banquet was held at the First Presbyterian Church of that
city, and was attended by a large number of former Davidson students. Arrangements for the Jacksonville banquet were in charge
of John B. Baker, Jr., of the class of ’24. Mr. John D. Baker, Sr., '86, was toastmaster.

Mr. Milton on Thursday night will address the Davidson alumni of central Florida at a banquet-meeting in Orlando, at the
Orlando Country Club. Rev. J. B. Belk, D.D., ’15, is in charge of arrangements for this banquet. Friday night Mr.
Milton will speak to the Davidson alumni residing on the West Coast of Florida at a banquet to be given
at the Lakewood Estates Club in St. Petersburg. C. R. Anderson, ex-’27, is in charge of arrangements for this banquet.

From St. Petersburg, Mr. Milton will go to Gainesville, Fla., to attend the Davidson-Florida football game. He will attend the
game for the purpose of wiring back a play-by-play account of the game which will be received by students, alumni,
faculty, and townspeople at the local gymnasium.

Davidson Men Attending New Columbia Seminary

The Columbia Theological Seminary opened its hundredth session at Decatur, Ga., on September 13th, with special exercises at the new
building which has just been thrown open for classes. Nine Davidson alumni were enrolled as students at the Seminary when
it opened at its new quarters. Dr. Richard T. Gillespie, ’04, is president of the Seminary, which is now supported
by the Synods of Alabama, Georgia, and Florida.

Handkerchiefs of Imported Linen Hosiery Silk Lisle and Wool $1 - $5 Shoes $6 to $12

HARMONY

Clothes for men this Fall show decided changes in style and color... New shades of Brown, Tan, and Grey are
foremost... Accessories to match are very much in evidence.

Suits $35 and More FASHION PARK SUITS $45 TO $75 EFIRD’S Derby Hats $5 to $7.50

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Mr. William Barnette Garrison, ’20, is engaged to be married to Miss Rebecca Lee Snyder, of Charlotte, in Charlotte on
October 8th. This marriage will be of interest to the wide circle of friends of both Mr.Garrison and his bride-to-be
in North and South Carolina, and particularly to Davidson alumni who knew Mr. Garrison when he was a student here
prior to 1920. Mr. Dan F. Mallery, ex-'25, and Miss Eileen Witherspoon Johnston were wedded during the summer months at
the home of the bride’s parents, 502 Selwyn Avenue, Charlotte, Dr. A. A. McGeachy, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church
officiating. Mr. and Mrs. Mallery are making their home in Warsaw, S.C., Mr. Mallery being engaged in the tobacco business
as a representative of the Liggett and Myers Tobacco Company in the State of South Carolina.

Another wedding of the summer which will be of particular interest to recent graduates of Davidson College, was the marriage
of Mr. James Erskine Love, ’27, of Huntersville, N.C. to Miss Gladys Keith, of Greenwood, S.C., on August 16th, at
the home of the bride’s parents. Mr. and Mrs. Love spent their honeymoon in the North Carolina mountains, Georgia, Florida,
South Carolina, and Mississippi.

Davidson men attending Columbia Seminary at this time are: Claude McIntosh, '26, J. W. Bracey, '26, L. B. Gibbs, ’24,
L. P. Burney, ’23, J. M. Garrison, ’26, C. F. Monk, '26, T. A. Smith, ’16, R. McCarty, ’26, M.
Richards, ’22.

Returning to Gastonia where they will reside, Mr. Love will be a member of the Gastonia High School faculty this
year. Rev. D. P. McGeachy, Jr., ’22, was married to Miss Elizabeth Lyle McClure at the Montreat Chapel, Montreat, N.C.,
on Wednesday afternoon, June 17th. The ceremony was performed by Dr. D. P. McGeachy, Sr., father of the groom, and
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Decatur, Ga., assisted by Rev. R. E. McClure, of Leakesville, a brother of the
bride. After a short wedding tour, the young couple returned to Tarboro, N.C., where they made their residence for the
summer. They will spend the winter in Scotland, where Mr. McGeachy goes to complete the work on his doctor’s degree.

Mr. William James Pharr, ’20, was married to Miss Katherine Stowe, of Belmont, N.C., at the Belmont Presbyterian Church during
the late summer. Rev. W. W. Pharr, of Mt. Hope, a brother of the bridegroom, officiated. Mr. and Mrs. Pharr
are making their home at Belmont where Mr. Stowe is president of the Belmont Rotary Club and superintendent of the
Linford Mills, Inc.

Rev. John B. Sloan, ’23, was married to Miss Ruby Maxine Fulmer at the First Baptist Church, of Orangeburg, S.C.,
on June 15th.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, DAVIDSON, N.C.

WHOLESALE When You Need Candy See Us 26-28 S. College St. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

THERE’S a reason why more college men come to Johnson’s Barber Shop THREE DOORS BEYOND THE BANK Charlotte, N.C.

The Commercial National Bank Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs. 4% interest
paid on Certificate of Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Government. Make us your Executor. Capital, surplus, profits,
etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS:
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

Founded 1847
