9 6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1927

3. Detailed Picture of Woodrow Wilson’s Life Here Given by Syndicated Article

The following extract from a syndicated article by Ray S. Baker, for the Charlotte Observer about Woodrow Wilson, former student
of Davidson College, will prove of interest to all the patrons and students of the college:

Davidson College is situated about 20 miles north of Charlotte, N. C., in a country of rolling red fields, corn,
wheat, sheep, and some cotton. The town consisted in Wilson’s time, as it does today, of a single straggling street
devoted almost entirely to students and student trade. Those stout old Presbyterians of the middle of the last century liked
to get their colleges well out in the country, away from temptation.

When Tommy Wilson became a student, the whole country was still suffering from the exhaustion caused by the war. The
only railroad serving Davidson, the Atlantic, Tennessee & Ohio, had been destroyed by the war, but the tracks had recently
been relaid. The trains were slow and the service poor. There was, at that time, no express or telegraph service,
and conditions otherwise were primitive. But, if the college lacked material advantages, it had a soul of its own. It
represented the passion of that early Scotch and Scotch-Irish population for an education. They were not too poverty-stricken, even in
those days following the war, to tax themselves for institutions such as this.

It holds the record of being one of the three institutions in the United States sending the largest number of
young men into theological seminaries. In the fall of 1873, when young Wilson entered, there were 107 students, and almost
all the activities of the school were carried on in one huge building with imposing stone pillars in the old
Southern style, standing like sentinels in front. It had been erected at the unheard-of price of $85,000 and was the
feature of the entire countryside. From the cupola, one could see Storm King Mountain, and even, on clear days, the
Blue Ridge.

Here, on the first floor, in the north wing, room 19, young T. W. Wilson went to live. His roommate
was John William Leckie, who died a few years later. There were two other noteworthy buildings on the campus, those
devoted to the debating societies—the Eumenean and Philanthropic—features of which no Southern institution of that day felt it could be
without.

Excellent reasons existed for sending young Wilson to Davidson besides his friendship for Brooke. His father and his uncle, James
Woodrow, were both much interested in the school, and Dr. Wilson was soon to be a trustee. It was, moreover,
a sound Presbyterian institution, sending many students to the Columbia Seminary.

Fellow students of young Wilson describe him as a quiet, superior sort of boy, studious rather than athletic. Dr. Fraser
speaks of him as “witty, genial, superior, but languid.” He did play center field in the baseball games and was
an average batter, but Captain Robert Glenn, captain of the team, afterwards Governor of North Carolina, remarked explosively, “Tommy Wilson
would be a good player if he were not so damned lazy!”

But Tommy Wilson was not lazy. He was somewhat delicate in health, and his interests were intellectual, not physical. He
had been poorly prepared for college and though the requirements were not severe, he was conditioned in ancient geography and
Cicero, and entered his mathematics and Greek classes on probation. He was thus under heavy pressure to make up his
work. The end of the year found him near a physical breakdown.

Here at Davidson, as at other institutions which he attended, Wilson made only an average record in his studies, not
the worst, but not the best. The original records of Davidson of the term ending December 2, 1873, show that
T. W. Wilson had the following standing: Greek, 95; Latin, 87; Mathematics, 74; Composition, 96; Declamation, 92; and Deportment, 100.
For the second term report his standing was as follows: English, 97; Greek, 88; Latin, 94; Mathematics, 88; Composition, 95;
Declamation, 92; Deportment, 100.

It will be seen that here, as at other times in his college work, he was lowest in mathematics and
highest in composition and English. The life at Davidson in those days was decidedly primitive. The boys had to cut
their own wood to keep their fireplaces going, and bring their own water. But expenses were low and the number
of boys paying their own way was large.

At Davidson, and later at Princeton and the University of Virginia, Wilson’s real interest was in debating societies, and in
studying subjects either outside the curriculum, or only remotely connected with it. He was chosen almost immediately as a member
of the Eumenean Society. The brick building where the meetings were held still stands and the dignified old furniture had
a kind of sedate magnificence appropriate to the seriousness with which the youths of those days burned offerings on the
altar of oratory.

It is significant that almost the first thing that the boy Wilson did was to interest himself in the constitution
of the society. He was instrumental in providing a new record book and himself copied out with many flourishes the
entire constitution—a handwriting not yet settled into the copperplate of later years. The motto of the society was “Pulchrum est
Colere Mentem,” and it is declared that “the object of this society shall be the acquirement of literary knowledge, the
promotion of virtue, and the cultivation of social harmony and friendship.” It is significant of the interests which stirred the
minds of the boys of that time that such questions as these should have been debated: Was the Introduction of
Slavery Into the United States Beneficial to the South, and Was the Death of Lincoln Beneficial to the South?

The books of the society show that the first recorded public appearance of the youth was on December 1, 1873,
and the subject which he discussed, taking the negative, was, Resolved, That Republicanism is a better form of government than
a limited monarchy. He delivered an original oration on January 17th and debated the question of compulsory education—in the affirmative—on
February 30th. In May he is excused from several meetings on account of illness.

Wilson remained only a year at Davidson. When it was known he was to leave, Dr. Thornton Whaling, then a
student, said to him: “Wilson, why are you going to leave us? Don’t you like the place?” “Yes, I do,”
he answered, “but I want to get closer to where they are doing things.”

Davidson College always had a warm spot in Mr. Wilson's life. His correspondence of later years shows that he never
lost an opportunity to express his affection or to comply with the requests of students or faculty for friendly services.
At the inauguration of 1913 a delegation of 80 Davidson students marched with the parade down Pennsylvania Avenue, carrying the
Davidson banner. In 1916, President Wilson visited Charlotte to celebrate the centennial of the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence. In spite
of crowding engagements, he determined to drive over to Davidson in the afternoon with Mrs. Wilson to see the old
college. There is extant a beautiful story that the visit was an entire surprise, that when he tapped on his
old room in Chambers Hall the student within called out: “Come in.” When Mr. Wilson shouted: “Who's there?” Mr. Wilson
answered, “This is President Wilson.”The student replied, “This is Christopher Columbus—Come on in.” When the presidential party actually filed into
the room, it is veraciously narrated that the student plunged headfirst out of the window. It is unfortunate that the
matter-of-fact historian has to destroy a tale so perfect. As a matter of fact, Mr. Wilson let it be known
that he was coming, but he wished no demonstration. Professor Lingle went to the point of seeing that the old
room in Chambers Hall was in good order against Mr. Wilson's visit. When the President went into the Eumenean building,
he remarked, “I once tried to make a speech in this building, but couldn't.”

The youth returned home in June, 1874. He was not in good health, nor was he well enough prepared to
enter Princeton that fall. He therefore remained at home for the following 15 months: studious, dreamy months partly spent at
Columbia, mostly at Wilmington, N. C., where the Wilson family went to live in the fall of 1874. Wilson did
not answer.

DAVIDSON-FLORIDA GAME
(Continued from page 2)

Goodbread galloped around left end for 5 yards. Cawthorn made a lone yard at center. A pass from Bowyer to
Goodbread was incomplete. Owens substituted for Goodbread. Bowyer punted 47 yards over the goal line. Davidson’s ball on her own
20-yard line. Baker for McConnell for Davidson. Harrison got 20 yards on a criss-cross play around right end. Grey made
8 yards through center on a fake play. Ball in midfield. Nesbit made 3 yards off tackle. Wilson tossed a
pass for 15 yards to Nesbit. First down. Grey made 1 yard on a long end run. Nesbit ran off
tackle for 5 yards. W. DeHoff threw Wilson for a 12-yard loss on an attempted pass. Hunt substituted for Laws
for Davidson. Bryan in for O. DeHoff for Florida. Flinn substituted for Nesbit for Davidson. Grey punts 47 yards over
the goal. Florida’s ball on their own 20-yard line. Bishop kicks from behind the goal out of bounds on the
12-yard line. Davidson’s ball on Florida’s 12-yard line, first down. Harrison made no gain through the line, stopped by Bishop.
Flinn loped around right end for 12 yards and a touchdown. Grey missed his attempt at a dropkick for the
extra point. Score, Davidson, 6; Florida, 0. Crabtree substituted for Owens. Kell for Harrison. Grey kicked off over the goal
line. Florida’s ball on her own 20-yard line. Harmon in for Melton. Crabtree hit the line for 1 yard. Davidson
recovered the ball after Kirchmer had made a bad pass. Clemons went in for Pless. Kells got 4 yards at
right end, and then made another yard around left end. Smith for McColgan. Wilson's pass to Flinn was incomplete. Grey
failed on an attempted drop kick from the 25-yard line. Florida’s ball on their own 20-yard line. Crabtree twisted around
right end for 7 yards. Mathews for Wilson. Captain Oosterhoudt for Stanley. Crabtree failed to gain on an end run.
A lateral pass from Bowyer to Crabtree netted 3 yards and first down. Crabtree caught Bowyer’s pass for a 12-yard
gain, and first down. Bowyer’s pass to Dehoff was incomplete, and another to Oosterhoudt was unsuccessful. Florida drew a 5-yard
penalty for two consecutive incomplete passes. Bowyer kicked 55 yards out of bounds, to Davidson’s 15-yard line. Hewlett for Kells.
Flinn lost 2 yards at center, and then circled left end for 12 yards, and first down, as the half
ended. Score: Davidson, 6; Florida, 0.

Second Half

Stanley kicked off 55 yards to Nesbit, who returned it 35 yards to his own 43-yard line. On an out
of bounds play Nesbit lost a yard. Grey made 6 yards off tackle. Nesbit hit the line for 3 yards.
Nesbit ploughed through the line again for 7 yards and first down. Bishop was hurt on the play and was
taken out, Goodbread substituting for him. Grey dashed through the line for 6 yards. Nesbit made 3 yards at center,
and then went off tackle for 1 yard and first down. Harrison twisted off left tackle for 7 yards. Grey
was thrown for a 1-yard loss by Middlekauf. Nesbit then made 11 yards and first down on an off tackle
play. Ball on Florida’s 15-yard line. Harrison got 2 yards off tackle. Nesbit made a lone yard at right guard.
Harrison circled right end for 4 yards. Grey's attempted dropkick was blocked by Kirchner and then recovered by Goodbread on
Florida’s 18-yard line. Smith made 5 yards off left tackle. Middlekauf ploughed through the line for 23 yards, carrying three
players with him for the last 10 yards. Smith went 1 yard out of bounds. Middlekauf gained 5 yards through
right guard, and then lost 1 yard around right end. Walker punted 40 yards to Grey, who returned the kick
10 yards. Davidson's ball on their own 32-yard line. Nisbet went 3 yards through line. Nisbet lost 1 yard, stopped
by Kirchner. Grey punted 65 yards over the goal line. Florida’s ball on their own 20-yard line. Walker loped around
right end for 4 yards. Middlekauf plunged through center for 5 yards. Smith made 2 yards and first down through
the line. Walker's pass to Dehoff was incomplete. Middlekauf was stopped with no gain at the line, but Smith went
7 yards through the line. Walker punted 38 yards, and Tucker downed the ball on Davidson’s 31-yard line as the
quarter ended. Score: Florida, 0; Davidson, 6.

Fourth Quarter

Harrison got loose for 25 yards on a criss-cross play around right end. Vansickel and Oosterhoudt substituted for DeHoff and
Stanley. Nisbet went 3 yards over the line, where he was slugged by Oosterhoudt, Florida drawing a 15-yard penalty. Nisbet
then made 8 yards through center. Bowyer substituted for Walker. Grey was stopped without gain through tackle. Nisbet fumbled, but
recovered for a 3-yard loss. Grey attempted a drop kick from the 30-yard line, but it went wide of the
goal. Florida’s ball on their own 20-yard line. Crabtree and Yancey went in for Smith and Goodbread. Flinn went in
for Nisbet. Bowyer got 6 yards off tackle, and then added 4 more for first down over guard. Bowyer's pass
to Vansickle was incomplete. Bowyer gained 3 yards through the line. Wilson intercepted Bowyer’s long pass and was downed by
Vansickle on Florida’s 45-yard line. Grey hit tackle for 1 yard. Harrison plunged 8 yards through the line. DeArmon substituted
for Hampton. Flinn dashed 28 yards around right end to Florida’s 16-yard line, where he was downed by Crabtree. Harrison
failed to gain around left end. Flinn made 4 yards off left tackle. Allyn went in for Goldstein. Flinn hit
center for 3 yards, and then added 3 more at tackle. First down, on Florida’s 7-yard line. Flinn got 5
yards at tackle. Grey added the remaining two off tackle for a touchdown. Grey failed to add extra point from
drop kick. Score: Florida, 0; Davidson, 12. Baker went in for McConnell. Grey kicked off over the goal line. Florida's
ball on her own 20-yard line. Crabtree made 5 yards around left end. McEachern for Wearn. Florida penalized 5 yards
for offsides. Bowyer got 7 yards through tackle. Bowyer’s pass to Crabtree slipped through the latter’s hands. Crabtree then passed
12 yards to Bowyer for first down. Crabtree got 5 yards.

(Continued on page 5)

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Campus of Union Theological Seminary

(THE OTHER TRACT OF NEARLY 40 ACRES DOES NOT APPEAR)

Occupied in 1898 the total enrollment of students has been 2,770. This number 952 enrollments were of men from Davidson
College.

Information on request.
