TicDA VD SONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON = Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 3, 1927 No. 8

MILITARY PARADE AND OUTDOOR PROGRAM WIN FAVOR OF EARLY CROWD

Welcome Extended Visitors by Branch and Dr. Martin—Prominent Alumni Discuss Football from Various Angles

Featuring the Homecoming Day program on the 29th were the exercises held in the Richardson Memorial Stadium, which was officially
presented to the college on last Homecoming Day by the Richardson brothers of Greensboro. This part of the day’s program
was gotten underway immediately after the parade by the R. O. T. C. battalion.

Introduced by Harllee Branch, assistant alumni secretary of the college, Rev. E. D. Brown, of the class of ’93, rendered
the invocation. This was followed by the singing of “O! Davidson,” by the assemblage. Speaking for the college as a
whole, Branch made a short address of welcome to all the visitors and their friends and especially to all the
alumni present. He chose as his subject “Davidson Songs,” and brought out their value in molding college tradition and spirit.
“Especially,” he said, “is the old college song, ‘College Ties’ one that always remains dear to the heart of all
Davidson alumni, making them conscious of the fact, as the years pass, that college ties formed at Old Davidson can,
in reality, never be broken.”

On behalf of the students and faculty of the college, Dr. W. J. Martin, president, heartily welcomed all of the
old men back to Davidson. “Your coming back today,” said Dr. Martin, “means to us what (Continued on page 8)

Dr. Sullivan Talks at Vespers Sunday

Dr. Charles E. Sullivan, the speaker at “Y” Vespers last Sunday, held the complete attention of his audience with the
beautiful expression and sound advice of his talk. Dr. Sullivan, of Ninety-Six, S. C., was introduced by Dr. Hood, as
being one of the most prominent ministers of his section.

Dr. Sullivan stated that he felt highly honored and especially privileged in being asked to speak to “the greatest educational
institution of the Church” and especially to an audience of young college men because it is upon them that a
great responsibility rests at the present. His topic, “The Hermit of the Hills,” was chosen so as to bring into
example the life and works of the great prophet Elijah, who faced a problem in Israel very much the same
as every Christian man is facing today. Interspersing his remarks with bits of pleasing wit, Dr. Sullivan developed his theme
by comparing events and opinions in the days of Elijah with those of the present time. The breaking of the
Sabbath in the reign of Ahab and Jezebel by pleasure-seekers is repeating itself in America now and the peaceful and
holy Sabbath of the past is threatened unless the rising generation will take rapid and forceful action. The desolation of
the Church, the disobedience of the law, the scramble for money, the indulgence in pleasure and high living, the breaking
of the Holy Day, and the drifting of men (Continued on page 8)

Tuesday Night Witnesses Termination Of Rushing As Seventy-one Men Pledge

Seven weeks of intense rushing were brought to a close Monday night as 80 men were given bids to membership
by the eight national and three local fraternities at Davidson. This is the smallest number of Freshmen that have been
pledged on bid day in a number of years. Bids were distributed by representatives of the Pan-Hellenic, at 10:30 Monday
night. From this hour through the following day silence was enjoined upon the members of the various fraternities and the
Freshmen. This day of silence was over at 7:30 Tuesday night, when conferences were arranged between the various fraternities and
the men to whom they had issued bids. After these conferences each man proceeded to the house of his accepted
fraternity, where he was pledged.

The following is a list of the pledges and their home addresses:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: H. S. Monroe, Jr., Charlotte; W. A. Armfield, Asheboro; H. A. McAllister, Jr., Lumberton; G. M. Lupton,
Lynchburg, Va.; S. S. Wiley, Salisbury; T. W. Griffin, Quincy, Fla.; R. C. Gay, Little Rock, Ark.; Harry Mixson, Valdosta,
Ga.; J. A. Jones, Laurinburg; G. L. Weeks, Rocky Mount; J. E. Stoud, Goldsboro; G. W. Williams, Lancaster, S. C.;
A. W. McClain, Lumberton; Hector McClain, Laurinburg.

Beta Theta Pi—R. A. Gillam, Gastonia; P. W. Glidwell, Reidsville; W. C. Knight, Greensboro; W. L. Poe, Rock Hill; H.
F. McMillan, Atlanta; J. A. Cannon, Jr., Concord; W. A. Mason, Kings Mountain; J. M. McNeely, Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha—M. R. McCallum, Dillon, (Continued on page 3)

Press Convention Meets at Raleigh

Over 125 delegates, representing every college publication in North Carolina, met in Raleigh last weekend for the annual convention of
the North Carolina Press Association. The association was entertained by State College and Meredith. The convention was divided into two
main units, the one composed of those interested in annuals, and the other of those interested in weekly and monthly
publications. Each unit opened the convention with a banquet, where introductions were made and delegates welcomed by Raleigh citizens. H.
L. Hester, president of the association, expressed the desire that the convention would materially aid the various delegates to improve
their publications. Immediately after the banquet Thursday night, the members were entertained at the State theater at a theater party.
Friday morning the first business session was held, with H. L. Hester, editor of the Duke Chronicle, presiding. Reports were
given by each of the publications represented. W. L. Bost, Raleigh correspondent of the Greensboro News, was the speaker at
this session. The program Friday afternoon began with a luncheon given by the Raleigh News and Observer and State College,
at the Yarborough Hotel. Dr. Eugene C. Brooks, president of State College, was the speaker. The afternoon business meeting was
held immediately following the luncheon, and this was followed with a tour of Raleigh. Late Fri- (Continued on page 3)

Chas. Paddock Guest of Y.M.C.A. When “Fastest Human” Visits Davidson

Speaks in Shearer Hall Friday Night

INTRODUCTION BY BRANCH

Present Lack of National Athletic Prowess Due to Unwillingness to Train

Charlie Paddock, world-famous athlete, appearing in Shearer Hall Friday night, October 28th, gave a splendid and engaging lecture on “Playing
the Game,” which he made especially interesting by his numerous anecdotes drawn from the personal experience of a varied and
fascinating career. Mr. Paddock was introduced to the audience by Harllee Branch as being a man who, as one of
America’s finest athletes, has lived an exemplary and diversified life. The keynote of Paddock’s talk was the very great need
and benefit of a nation’s direct interest in sports.

At the first of the speech he told of his own interest in all phases of athletics and of the
importance of sports in American life today. By giving the examples of ancient Greece and Rome he showed the important
part that athletics have played in the rise and fall of nations, for he noted that when Greece and Rome
were at the height of their culture and power, their athletics were also at the highest stage of development; and
that when sports and physical culture declined, the downfall of the country resulted. Paddock then gave a specific example of
the benefit derived from sports by discussing football. He told of the 20,000 institutions in America that are putting out
teams and of the good that isderived from the training in teamwork and sacrifice that makes the game worthwhile. He
explained the present lack of the former athletic prowess in America as due to the unwillingness of the youth of
the country to train and sacrifice to make themselves stronger physically. The United States has lost the Davis cup be-
(Continued on page 2)

Two New Wildcats Take Place of Former Mascot
One Cat Purchased and Other Given to College

After many efforts, the lair of the Wildcat mascot, just east of the gym, has been rehabilitated. Two hale and
hearty wildcats have been procured for Davidson by Spike McGee. These two cats, “Tom” and “Min,” are worthy successors to
Faithful “Felix,” who died during the past summer. Spike has tried since the beginning of school to locate a healthy
wildcat who would stand as a worthy symbol of the Davidson spirit. He procured a cat, as the Davidsonian announced
some few weeks ago, but on account of illness, the cat was not shipped, and Spike was forced to turn
to other sources. “Min,” whose native haunts were in western North Carolina, was recently purchased by the student body for
the sum of thirty-five dollars. “Min” is a healthy cat, a yearling, and weighs thirty pounds. Shortly after her arrival
and debut at the Wake Forest game, “Tom” came as a gift from Mr. Hansell Watt, of Monticello, Fla. (Continued
on page 5)

WILDCATS BOW BEFORE V. M. I. CADETS, 20-0, IN HOME-COMING SCRAMBLE

Debate Tryouts to be Staged Dec. 5th

All debate tryouts for places on varsity teams will be held December 5th, according to Henry Powell, head of the
Forensic Council. A new plan for the selection of varsity debaters is being put into operation this year through the
united efforts of the faculty and the Forensic Council. Instead of holding a separate preliminary to determine the participants in
each debate, a squad of fifteen men will be chosen at one time, and from this squad will come the
debaters for the season. The members of last year’s debating teams: Henry Powell, W. K. Pitchett, Robert Grady, Tyree Dillard,
and L. K. Pritchett, by reason of last year’s work, are to be considered on the debating squad. This leaves
ten men to be chosen from the remainder of the student body. Competition is certain to be keen, since there
are quite a number of last year’s freshman team as well as juniors and seniors who will be trying for
a place. The tryout speech is to be limited to five minutes in order to keep the competition within a
reasonable length of time and to encourage a very thorough preparation on the part of those speaking. The question for
the tryouts will be: Resolved, that the United States should enact by national legislation a uniform marriage and divorce law.
This is a question of vital interest in this age of (Continued on page 8)

7,000 See Game as Cats Pile up Fourteen First Downs to Opponent’s Five—Final Punch Lacking

The hitherto unruffled goal line of Richardson field, which has so gloriously been guarded by the Davidson College Wildcats, was
marred Saturday afternoon by three well-defined paths as the Flying Squadron of Virginia Military Institute marched across it for a
20-0 victory, piling up more points than the total of all opponents of the Wildcats in their own lair for
the past decade. The Davidson team fought a bitter battle, but after a fast opening quarter, it was a losing
battle as they played consistent football in the middle of the field only to be held as they neared the
trenches of the soldiers. The sun would shine brightly for them while in no man’s land, but as they neared
the territory of the enemy, the thrusts of four marksmen in the form of the cadet backfield caused them to
wilt away. It was the great defensive work of that backfield that kept the Presbyterians from wrecking devastation in their
ranks as the Cats drove through the first defense consistently for fourteen first downs to five marked up by the
Cadets. But with great strategy did the V. M. I. team strike, and on three occasions, they had possibilities of
scoring, and each time they went over for touchdowns. The game opened with the Wildcats having the edge, and they
went through the line for first downs and seemed to be nearing the opponent’s goal when they (Continued on page
8)

Stunt Night Proves Gala Affair as Program Presents Varied Amusements

College Delegates Go to Conference

The annual meeting of the North Carolina College Conference was held October 25 and 26 at Durham, N. C. The
headquarters of the conference were located at the Washington-Duke Hotel. The conference was attended by two or more delegates from
each college in the state, among which were six Davidson representatives: President Martin, Professors Harding, Lingle, Hood, and Williams, and
Mr. Hengeveld. At the first session, reports were given on the results of “Fresh Week” as it was observed in
the state. Professor Williams, Dean of Freshmen here, was one of the speakers at this occasion. The evening was given
over to President Harper, of Elon, who spoke on the “Training of Teachers.” That afternoon at six-thirty, a banquet was
held at the hotel for the delegates and visitors. There were over one hundred present at the first session. The
University Glee Club entertained the delegates by a twenty-minute program. Wednesday morning was devoted to the hearing of the reports
of the standing and special committees. One of the reports given was “Physiological tests in high schools for the students
who are planning to enter college in the fall.” During this session, Prof. J. A. Highsmith, of N. C. C.
W., spoke on “Correlation of Physiological Tests and High School Certificates.” The program of the conference is ar- (Continued on
page 2)

Under the leadership of Professor Cullum and the Glee Club, twelve acts, put on by as many campus organizations, constituted
the program at Stunt Night last Saturday night. Shearer Hall, the scene of Stunt Night, was crowded to capacity by
eight o’clock, the time of the raising of the curtain. It has been estimated that over six hundred students and
visitors saw the program. The program was started at eight o'clock by the singing of “College Ties” by the Glee
Club. Next on the program were several popular selections by the jazz orchestra. The first class stunt on the program
was given by the seniors. The stunt was originated by Tyree Dillard and carried out by a cast consisting of
Howard Arbuckle, “Mutt” Stigler, John McNeely, and Witt Handcock. The next stunt was put on by the Glee Club, which
sang two selections new to Davidson campus, “The Blind Ploughman” and “Mother's Joy.” Following this came the junior stunt, a
cabaret scene. Next, Mrs. McCullum sang three solos, “Come to the Fair,” the chorus of “Roses of Picardy,” and “La
Coeur de ma Mie.” She was accompanied by Miss Hattie Thompson. After Mrs. Cullum’s solos, the sophomores presented their stunt,
put on by the Beaver Club with a cast from the sophomore class; and the cast were Tom Baker, Bob
McDermid, Jimmy Matthews, and Charley Yancey. The next selection was a piano solo by D. C. Moury. The freshman stunt
was developed by Frank Pilcher and was featured by a (Continued on page 2)
