BAY! FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 10, 1927

No. 18

State and Duke Defeat Wildcats in Fast Games at Raleigh and Durham

Davidson Loses Place in Race For Championship

ANDERSON HIGH SCORER

Both Games Are Fast During First Half But Wildcats Lose in Last Half

At Durham and at Raleigh, the Davidson quintet went down in defeat in two hard-fought games with Duke University and
N. C. State, on the nights of February 2 and 3. The squad, of ten men, with Coach Younger and
manager Mason Carroll, left Davidson at eight o’clock Wednesday morning, February 2, for Raleigh. They reached there Wednesday afternoon, and,
after a rest and a short workout before supper, engaged the basketeers of State in a hard and fast game,
before a large crowd. The outcome was in doubt at the end of the half, for the score was tied,
15-15. In the second half, however, State secured the lead and kept it till the end of the game. It
was in vain that Capt. Anderson tried to rally his men for a comeback in the last period of play,
for they showed signs of fatigue, probably because of their long trip of the morning. The final score was 32
to 20, in favor of State. McDowell was high-point man for State, while Anderson showed up best for Davidson.

The team remained in Raleigh Wednesday night, and entrained for Durham Thursday morning. There, again, before a large crowd, they
tackled a team that, though not as good as the State team, they were unable to overcome. In the first
half Davidson could not get to-

(Continued on page 8)

Fresh Basketball Team Plays Strong Quintets

Four Strong Squads Will be Met by Wildkittens on Five Day Tour

The freshman basketball team left Monday evening on a five-day tour. Oak Ridge, Wake Forest, State, and Duke will be
met. Eight men including Coach Mattox and Manager George Batte are making the trip. Monday night the Kittens play the
first game against the strong Oak Ridge team. On the following night the Fresh team is doped to win over
the Young Deacons as they have already been taken in tow by the Kittens earlier in the season. This leaves
N. C. State and Duke, both of which have good teams. Duke especially seems to be formidable, having beaten the
varsity in the early part of the season. Pritchett was elected captain Thursday after the Wake Forest game and will
play for the first time after being elected. The lineup is Captain Pritchett and Johnston at forward; Moore and McGavock
at guard; and Smith, J. P. at center, Moore being shifted from forward to guard. The other men making the
trip are Smith, E. W. and Heefner. The team will be handicapped by the loss of two regular guards, Mauze
and Baker, who could not make the trip on account of failing to pass the required amount of work. Prevost
is out also. Johnston’s ankle, sprained during the Wake Forest game, is in shape now. The four games played this
week will decide the Fresh state title as far as Davidson is concerned. The Fresh have completed the first part
of the season in fine shape and if the “Young Cats” show up as well as they have so far
we stand a good chance for the state title.

Christian Juniors Announce Holiday Features

Plans for the Junior Speaking are progressing rapidly, according to Bob Link, chairman of the program committee. Plans have almost
been completed for the entertainments. Classes will be suspended Thursday, April 14th at 1:30 o’clock and begin again on Wednesday,
April 20th at 8:30 o’clock. Entertainment for Thursday afternoon has not been fully decided but will probably be a baseball
game. That night the Red and Black Masques, better known as the Dramatic Club, will give several original one-act plays
in Shearer Hall. Full particulars will be announced later. Friday afternoon is yet to be filled but plans are on
foot to bring two strong high school baseball or track teams here for an exhibition. The Davidson Glee Club will
give their last performance of the year on this night. Saturday afternoon will be featured by a freshman baseball game
and that night will be the greatest from the standpoint of the Juniors. This is the night on which the
Juniors have their performance and is called Junior Night. The program for this night will not be announced until the
time of the show. For several years each class has been trying to outshine the preceding one. The members of
the present class will give no inkling as to the nature of the entertainment other than it will surpass that
of last year. This class is well supplied with talent and this night should be the best yet. Special features
have been arranged for both the church and “Y” vesper services on Sunday night. Special music will feature both of
these meetings. Monday, the scene shifts to Charlotte. This will be held in one of the hotels and will be
open to all “Davidson” men.

(Continued on page 5)

Noted German Lecturer Brings Stirring Message on International Europe

That the mutual life insurance scheme of the European powers was the statement made Monday afternoon by Professor Doctor Ernst
Jackh before the student body of Davidson College. Jackh, founder of the German Institute of Political Sciences, Berlin, and president
of the American Insurance Institute, was a member of the German delegations in Versailles, Genoa, Locarno, and Geneva, and is
in America upon the invitation of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. He will address the International Relations Clubs established
by the Carnegie Endowment in the foremost colleges of this country.

“The political basis of the new Germany is the most democratic constitution of the world, the constitution of Weimar, of
this town of Goethe, and Schiller, selected intentionally and symbolically by the new Germany,” said Dr. Jackh. “The decisive constitution
has both an actual connection with the Parliamentarism of Prince Max of 1918 and an intellectual connection with the Parliament
of Frankfort, 1848, of the intellectual mobility of that time when men like Carl Schurz came to America and became
outstanding leaders in this country.

“The Germany of today is the realization of the old Forty-Eighters and of the new fourteen points of Woodrow Wilson.
The equal, direct franchise of every man and woman, married or single over twenty years of age, is the basis
of German democracy and the secret of its success.

“The Prussian example proves most distinctly the decisive efficiency of the new democratic system. Prussia, the largest state in Germany,
containing 61 per cent of the German population, has always been the key-stone of the militaristic monarchy, nothing but a
result of the unequal franchise, and is now the

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson College Glee Club Presents Last Program of Year Monday Night

Debating Tryouts Come Next Month

Subjects and tryout debates have recently been announced by Don Wharton, President of the Forensic Council. Debates will be held
with Rutgers, Gettysburg, Sewanee, and Duke Universities. Tryouts for the debates will be held March the 8th. The query for
the Rutgers-Gettysburg debate will be Resolved: That the policy maintained by the United States in the Central and Latin American
States should be continued. Either the negative or the affirmative may be upheld in the preliminaries. The query for the
Sewanee debate, scheduled for March 4th, is Resolved: That the Volstead Act be amended so as to allow the manufacture
and sale of light wines and beers. All preliminary speeches willbe limited to ten minutes, will be composed of two
men. The schools will be met on a northern trip to be taken sometime in April. One team will meet
Duke at Greensboro during the latter part of the spring, but the date for the preliminaries and the subject have
not yet been chosen. These will be published at an early date. Each of the above teams, including Sewanee, will
be met at Davidson. The other two will meet the University of North Carolina. The Freshman team will meet the
University of North Carolina Freshmen twice during the spring, once at Chapel Hill and once at Davidson. Two different teams
will probably be chosen for these debates. This encounter was formerly held as a triangular meet with Wake Forest Freshmen
included, but the latter have withdrawn during the past year. The tryout date and subject of this meet will also
be announced at an early date. Material for the queries already announced has been put on reference in the library,
and any information concerning it will be available.

Ed Wilson is Outstanding Star of Performance

ORCHESTRA POPULAR

Chorus is Well Trained—Varied and Enjoyable Musical Program is Rendered

The Davidson College Glee Club, for three years hailed as one of the South’s leading collegiate musical organizations, sang its
“swan song” of the present season last Monday evening in Shearer Hall, scoring a distinct hit with the students and
townspeople who attended the concert. According to its managers, this will be the club's last appearance in concert here this
year, plans having been made for an extended tour through the Carolinas early next month. The program included a variety
of vocal and instrumental music, showcasing the entire club's talent. No effort was spared in presenting a program replete with
musical thrills and terpsichorean slapstick. The harmony and volume evident in the choral numbers marked the singers' excellent choice of
melodious numbers, and the enthusiastic rendition of solos and novelty orchestrations indicated a marked improvement over the performances of former
years. Ed Wilson, owner of considerable prestige both at home and abroad, whose voice has won its well-deserved praise, gave
the outstanding individual performance of the evening’s concert. Wilson's two solos, rendered in inimitable style, resulted in prolonged applause.

(Continued on page 5)

Rifle Team Chosen and Ready to Enter Season

The chosen Rifle Team of Davidson College was selected last week after a close competition. More than thirty men were
trying for the team, and those chosen have well earned their places. A splendid spirit has been displayed, and from
present indications, the team is going to be worthy to represent this institution. An unusually extensive schedule has been arranged
for this year. Challenges have been received and accepted from the following institutions: A. & M. of Connecticut during the
week of January 22-26; Western Maryland, Virginia Military Institute, University of Emory, and Clemson, February 1-3; Oklahoma A. & M.
and University of Dayton, February 8-10; University of Alabama, February 14-16; University of Tennessee, February 21-23. The team is also
entering the Fourth Corps Area Competition. The first two stages, prone and sitting, are being fired this week, and consist
of forty rounds each. The results of these firings will be transmitted to Fourth Corps Area headquarters, where the winner
of the competition will be determined. The big event of the year will be the William Randolph Hearst Trophy competition.
In this competition, all colleges and universities in the United States having R.O.T.C. units are included. Those making the team
with their qualifying scores are as follows: Arbuckle, H. B. 331, A. A. 281, Cathey, C. O. 328, Crawford, P.
J. 319, Gibson, B. F. 309, Gudger, J. M. 324, Harrill, H. C. 326, Lennen, E. D. 317, Miller, B.
W. 310, Ramsey, T. L. 331, Short, T. L. 315, Taylor, W. C. 362, Vance, S. W. 319, Webb, J.
R. 360, Westbrook, D. O. Jr. 305.

(Continued on page 6)

Prominent Professional Men Will be Brought to Davidson to Speak at Vocational Meetings

Dr. J. M. Northington, of Charlotte, Delivers Forceful Lecture to Medical Candidates and Many Other Interested Students

With the hope that those men who have not selected their life work will be brought to a definite decision
soon, the college Y. M. C. A. brought the first speaker of the Vocational Guidance Institute to Davidson Wednesday night.
Dr. J. M. Northington, of Charlotte, who is editor of the Southern Medical and Surgical Journal and a pronounced leader
in his profession, spoke upon the profession of medicine. Quite a number of men who are thinking of entering this
profession, as well as those who are undecided, heard Dr. Northington. His remarks were particularly interesting because of his standing
as a physician. Although he is a practitioner in Charlotte, he is giving most of his time to the editorship
of the medical publication. He is considered an authority on graduate work and the requirements of the medical profession. Other
fields of service from which speakers will come to address these groups are law, ministry, teaching, and business. Dr. M.
C. S. Noble, Jr., who is connected with the state department of education at Raleigh and a former professor of
the University of North Carolina, will also be speaking.

(Continued on page 7)

“The Hoodoo” Given February 22nd Set on Thursday Night

The local high school, last Thursday, entertained the townspeople with a very delightful and enjoyable three-act play, titled “The Hoodoo.”
The actors consisted wholly of home talent and deservedly won the commendation of all who attended. Judging the success of
the play on the basis of the receipts, it far excelled any that have been given in former years, although
last year’s play, “Anne Whats-Her-Name,” starring Miss Adele Arbuckle and John McConnell, made a big hit. “The Hoodoo,” under the
direction of Miss Grace James, Civics and History teacher at the High School, was taken from Walter Ben Hare’s play
bearing that title. Miss James selected her characters on a different plan this year in the fact that she asked
for volunteers for the parts, thus ensuring the cooperation and interest of her protégés. The play was presented in three
acts—all taking place in and about the country home of the rich Mrs. Perrington Shine, played by Miss Marion Erwin,
who was giving a wedding party in honor of the bridal couple, Miss Amy Lee, acted by Miss Lucy Currie,
and Brighton Early, played by David McGrew.

(Continued on page 8)

Soph Fete Date

The annual Sophomore banquet is to take place on Tuesday, February 22nd, at the roof garden of the Johnson Building
in Charlotte. The class is working to make this affair even more brilliant than it has ever been; committees have
been appointed, a toastmaster elected, and plans made to facilitate the arrangement of all details that must be taken care
of. The toastmaster in charge of the entertainment of the evening will be Richard Flynn. Flynn was elected in a
close race over the two other candidates, Nelson Myers and Jack Causey. As yet, the toastmaster claims to have nothing
prepared for his part in the event, but it is certain that he will arrange an entertainment that will be
quite unique as well as enjoyable. Four committees have been appointed to take care of all details that will arise.
These committees are Business, Program, Decorating, and Transportation, with Jack Causey, Bob Covington, R. C. Grady, and Mack King, chairmen
of each in the order named. The Business Committee will have charge of all matters along the financial line and
all miscellaneous details.

(Continued on page 8)
