THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1927

Union Library Adds to its Collections

During the last two months, the college library has secured a number of new books which will be placed at
the disposal of the students in the near future. These books cover a wide range of subject matter and will
be valuable additions to the college library.

Most of these works are novels which have been recently written by widely-read authors. “The Mayflower,” by Blasco Ibanez, is
a powerful story of Valencian fisher-folk and is a vivid portrayal of human emotions. Among the new books is also
found “Mexico in Revolution,” written by the same author, a story of the fall and death of Carranza. A volume
of particular interest to students, especially those working with student publications, is Dix Harwood’s “Getting and Writing News.” What news
consists of and the proper form in which to present it, forms the topic of this book.

Charles A. Beard’s new book, “The Rise of American Civilization,” combines with the facts of American history the progress of
the people intellectually and spiritually. It is one of the latest things out on this subject and is already accepted
as an authority on our country’s early life. “Dependent America,” by William C. Redfield, is a discussion of economic America
and will fill a real need in the college library.

Two new novels, “The Road to Xanadu,” by John Livingston Lowes, and “Woman Triumphant,” by Blasco Ibanez, will be ready
for distribution immediately. For the benefit of the students interested in the drama, “Contemporary Plays,” selected and edited by Thomas
H. Dickinson and Jack R. Crawford, has been secured. This volume includes works from several of the greatest contemporary playwrights
and will prove highly entertaining.

For the serious mind, “The Editorials of Henry Watterson,” edited by Anthony Krock, will afford an evening of pleasant occupation.
All of these books are here and will be put in circulation immediately. Each of them has been carefully selected
and it is believed that they will meet with the approval of the student body.

He was so fast he could run out the front door, run around and in the back shake hands with
himself going out. —Clipper

RUINED

A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharge over 1,000 gallons of water in 30 minutes, or about 35 gallons in 60 seconds.
No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our SPRINKLER LEAKAGE POLICY. The cost is a trifle compared with
the protection.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)

WILDCATS PROVE THREAT
(Continued from page one)

...fully hurled pass at the hands of the Carolinians. The game opened with an exchange of punts that put the
ball in the possession of Carolina on their own 40-yard marker, and from here they started a great first quarter
drive that was not stopped until the Tar Heels were perched on top of a 14-0 score. From the 40-yard
line a long pass was completed from Gresham to Young, who received it and was driven out of bounds only
five yards from the Davidson goal line. Three drives against the line put the ball one yard from the goal,
and Foard stretched out on the fourth down, putting it barely over. Gresham’s kick from placement was good for the
extra point.

After the kick-off Carolina made substantial gains and punted to Davidson. After failing to gain, the ball was returned to
Carolina on her 43-yard line. Line plays gained first down, and another pass from Gresham to Young put the ball
on the six-yard marker of the Wildcats. Again the Tar Heels drove the ball over, and again the extra point
was good. Thus ended the scoring for the first quarter.

In the second stanza the Davidson team came back with sensational gains that put a drop of cold sweat upon
the brows of the Tar Heel supporters. Davidson gained on exchange of punts, and Dick Grey attempted to pass, but
was rushed too much; consequently, he assumed other tactics. He dodged, side-stepped, and wiggled his way over 20 yards of
territory. After this gain, Harrison and Nesbit combined their resources for a first down, and a pass to Arrowood followed
by one to Nesbit put the ball nine yards from the goal of Carolina. Nesbit and Grey went over the
line for eight yards, and failed to take it over in two more plays. Carolina kicked back to Davidson, who
took the ball on the Tar Heels’ 34-yard line. Arrowood was interfered with when he was after a pass, and
the pass with the penalty put the ball eight yards from the goal. Nesbit and Harrison put the ball on
the one-yard marker, and again two plays failed to put the ball over. This was the end of the Davidson
threats.

Carolina scored another touchdown when Sapp dropped a pass, and the elusive ball was booted and rolled around until the
same Sapp picked it up, going 20 yards. Taking the ball on Davidson’s 22-yard line, it was pushed across by
line plays. After a pass was completed to Harrison for 35 yards, Davidson tried others, Swartz intercepting one of them.
A pass from Jackson to Furchess was good, and another to Jackson, who was well out in front of the
defense, resulted in the...

Esther Ralston
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
Janet Gaynor in “Seventh Heaven,” the French version of “The Big Parade.”
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY
Virginia Valli in “Ladies Must Dress.”
FRIDAY
Julia Faye in “Turkish Delight.”
SATURDAY
“Wolf Fangs,” a good dog picture.
in “Spotlight.”

The Y feels very much gratified over the response and interest shown during the meetings just passed. The Y also
believes that a great work has been done through these services and hopes that the Y may always be on
the increase in holding an important place in the life of Davidson men. Such is its earnest hope and aim
in the work of the Master.

Have you ever considered the helpfulness of daily communion with your Maker? There is a morning watch on your hall,
where you will be most welcome and where you will enter a few minutes of prayer, that will help start
the day in the right way. Take advantage of this opportunity and line up with one of these groups. You'll
always be glad that you have done so if you only learn the happiness that follows these few moments of
prayer and meditation.

If any fellows feel, after the services just finished, that they would like to get in Y work of some
sort, Jim Appleby will be glad to try to place them in something if they will only drop by to
see him.

The speaker at Y this week will be Bishop Penick, Bishop of the Charlotte diocese. He will be remembered as
the man who delivered the baccalaureate sermon to the class of ’26, and is well known as a most able
speaker and preacher. He is outstanding in his line of life work and will be worth hearing. Plan right now
to hear him.Of the fact that Davidson is no longer supporting Warren Cox, no mention has been made so far
of a missionary campaign; but one will be started later in the year. Details given soon.

DR. J. M. VANDER MEULEN
(Continued from page 1)

It is better to go into eternity a non-believer than a hypocrite, Dr. Vander Meulen stated. God might have reserved
for sinners a reserve of mercy, but not for hypocrites. There are others who have besetting sins which continually defeat
their good intentions. He offered a few words of encouragement and comfort to these, saying that the battle-stained soldiers of
Christ would receive their full reward when the reckoning comes.

Monday night, Dr. Vander Meulen spoke to a large crowd on the subject of losing a talent. He limited his
talk to the talent of religion. Dr. Vander Meulen established the fact that every man is a religious being, and
that man has always been gradually feeling his way toward kinship with the divine. He then pointed out that a
religious faculty is a high faculty; all really great men of the world have been distinctly religious. His listeners were
warned, however, that this faculty could be lost. Just as unused arms, legs, and wings of the lower animals disappear
with disuse, so this religious talent, if unused, shrivels up and dies. Many men have found on their death beds
that they haven't the faculty of believing the great religious truths. If we lose this great religious impulse, we lose
the best part of ourselves.

Tuesday morning Dr. Vander Meulen discussed the duties of Christian disciples: self-denial, cross-bearing, and following. Self-denial involves one of the
great essentials of a happy life regardless of the religious convictions of the individual. The man who can control his
desires and vanities can face the facts of life with a steadier mind. Cross-bearing is every man’s duty to assume
his share of social service. Social service was the keynote of Christ’s ministry on earth, and his last words to
his disciples concerned this. Cross-bearing does not necessarily include suffering and pain, as many believe, but rather comprises daily continuous
service on behalf of our fellow men. Dr. Vander Meulen then said it was hard for many people to follow.
There are many people who never do anything in the capacity of a follower; they are helpless if they are
not leaders. Every Christian will find his Christian life easier if he will make himself become a follower of the
great Leader.

Speaking on the fine art of sympathy Tuesday night, Dr. Vander Meulen emphasized the importance of cultivating a real understanding
of our fellow beings. We need to sympathize with a person in sorrow, in joy and happiness, in triumph, and
in each of his different emotions. We should learn to reach an understanding with our companions on their own intellectual
planes. Lastly, in order to be Christian workers, we must sympathize with a man’s moral problems, his sins and fights
to overcome them, and the difficulties he very often finds himself in. Sympathy can be developed first by unselfishness, and
then by placing ourselves in the place of others. Selfishness blinds us and keeps us from getting another’s viewpoint. Very
often assuming the other viewpoint will make our own more clear to us, and show us how to deal with
that viewpoint. Dr. Vander Meulen’s messages have had the strength of a long experience and strong character behind them, and
will have a lasting influence on the students at Davidson.

“Oh, I thought you were in an accident.” A friend in need is a friend to avoid.

Wildkittens Engage With P. C. Freshmen
Davidson Fresh Meet Blue Sox in Final Game

Tomorrow the Wildkittens will journey to Clinton, S. C., for the purpose of taking the socks off the Junior Blue-Stockings
of Presbyterian College. If they were ever over-confident, the Wildkittens lost that feeling when they went down in defeat before
the Duke rats. On the other hand, a very encouraging hope for Davidson rooters is that McMillans’ Midget Gang may
be over-confident because of their 6-0 win over the Furman fresh. Although the line and backfield of P. C. shows
up well, and has been doing splendid this season, the Davidson freshman line and backfield shows up equally well if
not better. With Goodykoontz, Estridge, David and Pope in the backfield and Brock, Foil and Mason in the line, the
team is expected to show up well in the game to the extent of walking off with the big end
of the score. For the P. C. Fresh, Young, Bennett, and Lynn form a fast working combination. The Davidson eleven
will leave for Clinton some time during Thursday afternoon. The probable line-up is as follows:

Davidson Position P. C.
Procter LE Bennett
Blakely LT Lynn
McQueen LG Ketchin
Mason C Fortson
Covington RG Johnston
McGall QB Young
Goodykoontz RH Dunlap
David LH Green
Brady FB Greene

You knew he was a polished gentleman, he was such a rounder.—Tawney Kat.

Politician’s Note—You can’t fool all of the people all of the time. Concentration on a majority will attain the desired
end.—Carnegie Puppet.

“You're a man after my own heart,” said the watermelon as the dusky darky thumped it affectionately—Scream.

January 15, 1928.
