THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1927: WILDCAT MIRACLE-MEN MONK YOUNGER AND TEX TILSON

Younger and Tilson Given Sobriquets of “Gloomy Boys” and “Miracle Men”

Sporting writers and football fans like to call Monk Younger and Tex Tilson the “gloomy boys” of North Carolina football.
At Davidson College, where they coach, they’re looked upon as miracle men.

Back in the fall of 1923, Monk Younger and Tex Tilson arrived in Davidson, fresh from the Virginia Polytechnic Institute,
where Younger had been a gridiron coach for many seasons, and Tilson had just completed a spectacular gridiron career as
V. P. I. lineman and captain. They found football interest at Davidson at a low ebb, and a scarcity of
gridiron material that appalled them. It had been six years since the Davidson Wildcats had made any sort of showing
in state football circles, and there seemed little chance of improvement with the mediocre material with which Younger and Tilson
were called upon to work.

When sport scribes introduced themselves to Younger and asked what he thought of Davidson’s chances to stage a comeback on
the gridiron, he let up a howl of despondency that was echoed throughout the South. That was in 1923. He
is still “crying” over Davidson’s prospects along with Tilson, who has stuck by him in his remorse. They never smile.
That’s why they’re called the “gloomy boys” among North Carolina coaches.

A glimpse at the records explains why Davidson fans look upon them as miracle performers, and why they’ve made such
a scramble to retain the two coaches. After a dismal showing during the season of 1923, Monk and Tex returned
to the lair of the Wildcats, still gloomy, and set to work building up an eleven that surprised even its
closest friends by the spectacular climb to third place among North Carolina’s “Big Five.” The following season, the Davidson Wildcats,
now accustomed to the Younger-Tilson tactics, went through a highly gratifying season and ended in a tie for second-place honors
among the leading teams in the state.

It was during the fall of 1926 that Monk Younger and Tex Tilson sprang their biggest surprise. The wisest sport
observers in the Old North State, impressed with Younger’s gloom, predicted early in the season that Davidson, with a light
team and no outstanding players, would do well to keep out of the “cellar” position in the standing of North
Carolina elevens, while a majority of sport scribes frankly declared that Davidson was destined to end the season a weak
third or a probable contender.

Thanksgiving Day rolled around and North Carolina fans awoke on Sunday morning to read in their papers that Davidson had
won the 1926 “Big Five” championship, having passed through the entire season without suffering a defeat at the hands of
a single North Carolina eleven. Carolina had been trounced by the Wildcats in one of the most startling gridiron reverses
in several years, and had bowed to the Wildcats in a 10-0 defeat in one of the most interesting games
of the year.

You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, DAVIDSON, N. C.There will be
no speeches or entertainment during the luncheon; it will be an excellent opportunity for the old men to get together
before the game. The high spot of the day’s program will start at 2:30 o'clock, at which time V. M.
I. and Davidson will clash on Richardson Field for the Wildcats’ second encounter on their home ground. This game bids
fair to be one of the best, as both teams have shown up well in the games they have already
played this year. Davidson is anxious for the chance to trounce the Cadets for the defeat at Lynchburg last year,
when the Wildcats took the small end of a 12-7 score. A record crowd is expected for this game, and
ticket sales already promise to surpass any of former years.

“Stunt Night,” a regular feature of Homecoming Day, will be staged in Shearer Hall, at 7:00 o'clock. A most unique
and satisfying program will be presented by the classes and other organizations both in musical and dramatical lines. It will
be remembered that in the past, this has been a night of nights for college talent, and those in charge
of the program have spared no effort to make the numbers as attractive and entertaining as possible.

The returning alumni have been requested to register at the office of the alumni secretary, in Elm Row, immediately upon
arrival at the college, where they will be given tags to be worn in the lapel of the coat throughout
the day. These tags will have on them the name, class, and residence of the alumnus, and will serve to
identify the alumni to each other and to the students. This custom was initiated at the commencement exercises of last
spring, and was so successful it was decided to continue it. All of the old men have been notified of
the exercises prepared for them through circular letters.

The Y quartet has been formed and will make an all-day deputation to Hopewell Church next Sunday. It has been
planned for the quartet to take a large part in Dr. Vander Meulen’s services, and various meetings of that type.
A brass sextette has also been organized by P. J. Cullum, and this is rapidly aiding the work of the
Y in spreading to different fields of endeavor.

Footwear for Davidsonians
We Want to Meet the New And Renew Acquaintances With the Old! Visit Us
Gilmer-Moore Co. at Charlotte
SHOES LUGGAGE
Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Come to HERB’S
There’s a reason why more college men
Johnson’s Barber Shop
THREE DOORS BEYOND THE BANK

With the tides (Chesterfield smokers don’t change) -- but watch how other smokers are changing to Chesterfield!
FOR THE BEST OF GOOD REASONS
BETTER TASTE!
