**THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927**

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN
Editor-in-Chief

VERNON S. BROYLES, JR.
Managing Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
A. N. BROWN
Managing Editor

W. K. PRITCHETT
Managing Editor

J. B. MORIARITY
Athletic Editor

W. GREISUN
Associate Editor

F. C. WITHERS
Associate Editor

L. C. WADSWORTH
Alumni Editor

R. C. GRADY
Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS
Assistant Business Manager

M. P. CRAWFORD
Assistant Business Manager

JULIAN LAKE
Assistant Business Manager

A. M. GALEIN
Subscription Manager

J. L. ALBRIGHT
Circulation Manager

T. T. JONES
Service Manager

OFFICERS
T. T. JONES
President

A. N. BROWN
Vice-President

GORDON LAKE
Secretary-Treasurer

STAFF MEMBERS
W. H. BAILEY
J. P. McBRYDE
TYRER DILLARD
B. F. MCQUEEN
J. L. ELY
W. K. PRITCHETT
J. R. GRAHAM
B. WILSON
JOHN GWIN
W. R. WEAVER
R. C. GRADY
L. C. WADSWORTH
JOHN MORIARTY
H. KANE
J. P. McKNIGHT

EDITORIAL

It seems that “Junior Speaking” is rather fading into insignificance when only four men out of a class of a hundred and fifty compete for the oratorical medal. After all the dirty cracks emanating from male collegiate journals concerning womankind, it is hoped that all of them will give the Junior and Senior classes at N. C. C. W. credit for their move making flowers from male guests “not in order” at their annual banquet. Possibly this is a move from some of the economics class or possibly there are a number of Republicans there.

JUNIOR WEEK

A new gasoline lawn mower has been purchased and can be seen purring merrily over the campus almost any day. There have been several announcements in chapel asking the boys to refrain from playing on the spots newly sown and sprouting tender grass. The golf course is literally covered with students almost any time of the day. Freshmen glance at the long green sweep of the verdant turf on the campus very longingly. There’s a new spirit in the air even though elections are practically over. In other words, spring and Junior Week are here.

From now on through the next few days a few members of the Junior Class will labor unceasingly in an effort to spend as much money as they can for the class, half of which won't be here at all. Seniors will smile pityingly at the working Juniors and remember all the labor they expended last year. Sophomores and Freshmen will long for the days when they will dominate a whole week of social activities on the campus—and the Juniors, they will wonder of the days when all of this blooming mess will end and they will be able to rest for a while. But on the whole, a good time should be had by all. The china-berry tree still has the faithful bench under it, the leaves are out just enough to cut off too much inquisitive moonlight and allow tiny silvery glints to filter through to barely light the campus. The majestic old pillars of Old Chambers will rear their lofty columns silhouetted against the brighter sky. The one girl will be here for most of the adoring students. The white marble benches, so thoughtfully supplied by some of the more ardent swains of the class of 1926, will invite aimlessly wandering couples to rest a few minutes under the spreading oaks and elms.

It seems a shame though that this celebration should come at a time when most of the students would like to be off of the campus. It seems that if the festivities were run some time during the semester, rather than during the holidays, it would be appreciated by more of the boys and be a greater success from the standpoint of the entire student body. When only five days’ vacation are given from January until June, it seems that it is asking quite a bit of a man to stay here where he has been for the preceding months when he has a chance to wander somewhere else without missing any classes. It is doubtful whether fifty per cent of the Junior class, who are hosts at this occasion, will be here. It does not seem that there have been that many present during the last two Junior Weeks, and it is all due to the fact that Junior Week seems to be given at the wrong time. Were it given about the first of April, when no one has any incentive to pull him away from the campus, school is in session, and everyone here, that it would be much more of a success than it has been for the last few years.

AN ANNIVERSARY

With this issue The Davidsonian begins its fourteenth year of service to the college and the student body. In the first part of April, 1914, the class of 1915 founded the “Livest Wire on the Hill,” and it is still functioning. There have been quite a few changes and much advancement since the first timid little sheet of four pages was presented to the student body. At that time there was much opposition to the paper since the literary societies were functioning and proceeding under full steam and also publishing the magazine. Students thought that the paper would be detrimental to this publication. Today the spheres of these two journals are widely separated and the two work harmoniously.

Today the paper has much more influence on the campus than it did thirteen years ago. The sound principles which those noble men who founded the paper enunciated have become inherent in the paper and each year the new staff attempts to more thoroughly instill these principles into the publication.

What the fourteenth year of The Davidsonian holds in store is of course speculation. But the present staff intends to attempt to live up to the standard set by preceding staffs and, if possible, to go further and broaden the interests and outlook of the paper to regions where it has never before penetrated.

ANTHOLOGIES

An anthology of verse written by students at the University of Alabama during the current year is on the press at present. Every year this book is published by the poetry class at the University and forms a valuable volume for a number of students. At Vanderbilt a similar volume is published annually and also at the Southern Methodist University.

There has never been any type of book similar to these ever published at Davidson. There have been a number of good authors or poets at Davidson during the past year, but their recognition has been ephemeral. There has never been any collection of poetry written at Davidson for a span of years, much less for a single year. It seems that there should be some lasting expression of the genius and art of these men and nothing could be better for this than an anthology of some sort. The price of publishing such a volume would be cheap and the book would be most valuable to a number of men on the campus and also to many alumni. In the vein of Arthur Brisbane, “Possibly some day we will have an anthology of some sort.”

Minor Chords

The subtle beams of half-hidden moon
Mellow the satires of worldly day—
The scare of life and the toils of men
In soothing oblivion melt away.

Like gossamer threads of fading smoke
Memories of fleecy clouds pass by—
Vague shadows of lonely, unquiet thoughts
Streaking the cold face of the sky.

In throbbing stillness the tired heart
Makes of empty earth-loves an end—
The reasoning mind, the worshipping soul
In quiet harmony yield and bend.

The best of hope and the worst of despair
Are one, and forgotten under thy spell—
To thee we owe much—our world and its ways—
Thou fairest gem in Night’s coronal.

Tom Jones.

Before the moon
Passes by,
Hear the wildness
Of their cry,

Wandering geese,
Formed in wedge,
Hallo on
Their feathers’ edge.

Into darkness
Then they float
Honking wildly
In weird note.

Fainter, fainter,
Grows the sound
Leaving beauty
Newly found.

Ollapadriaa new-born babe, wrapped in swaddling clothes, may it survive the scorn of critical readers. During the infancy of Junior Speaking, dashing young blades rarely sought farther than the city limits of Davidson for the feminine graces. Charlotte was the limit of exploration. A larger student body and improved highways have been productive of a more cosmopolitan representation. The village belle glimmers in the past. During the early part of the century, one student, hoping to lure at least one girl from the outside world to the gala fete, invited eight. They accepted ensemble. Undaunted, he hitched up the old grey mare to a then up-to-date buckboard and transported girls, baggage, and chaperon from Charlotte and entertained the entire party alone for the three-day festival. His record has never been approached.

Up until a few years ago, an oration was required of every member of the class. The practice was discontinued when speaking was shifted from February to April. The last compulsory speech ever made was halted by a very ripe and defunct cabbage which was hurled from outer darkness into the very face of the speaker, one “Sac” Massey, an ardent alumnus, a resident of Shelby. Hardly fifteen people composed the inner audience. Half the student body watched the performance through the windows.

A Davidson freshman sought a ride to Charlotte, was given one, discovered the donor to be a rum-runner. Constables gave chase. The student climbed to the running board, leaped, rolled down a bank, disappeared into the underbrush. The law pursued, were thwarted. The bootlegger, later captured, exonerated his passenger. However, a freshman cap and overcoat still lay unclaimed at Charlotte police headquarters.

Even the most capable college graduate is “guilty of that damnable crime of being a young man.” A number of long-established fraternities on the hill have mystic skulls which they claim to have found in the columns of old Chambers in the dim and distant past. The tale adds romance to their histories but one must remember that there was once a medical school at Davidson. It occupied Dr. J. M. Douglas’ present home. One fraternity, with a fair amount of truthful evidence to back the story, claims that their records were suspended by wires in one of the columns of Chambers during the Civil War and were reclaimed by the sole surviving member after that struggle.

Who is the richest man in the world? Not Henry Ford, says Ruth St. Denis, famous dancer, just back from the Orient. The Nizam of Hyderabad, she insists, could buy out Ford, Rockefeller, and others and still have an income left. The Nizam owns the diamond mines of Golconda, writes poetry, and dresses like a Greenwich villager.

Marriages by the captain aboard the Leviathan and other United States Line ships have recently become so popular that the shipping board has placed a ban on them. Reason: The captain has no time for such functions; also, couples are married so tight that only the Supreme Court of the United States can separate them.

Winter always brings some craze to the American public, some pastime which is national to the pleasure seeker. They flame up from the unknown, reign supreme for a few months, and pass from a fickle public fancy to be replaced by another. Consider Mah Jong, crossword puzzles, the Charleston, “Ask Me Another” (now in its full power). They bring quick money and wide publicity to their professional backers, but shortly pass into pecuniary worthlessness.

Make thee still better grades, oh my son
As swift semesters run;
Leave thy low-flunking past,
Let each new mark, higher than the last,
Gain thee thy sheepskin secure and fast
Till thou at length are freed
Leaving thine unused texts
For some other fool to read.

Petey: We are glad to see that our co-worker, “Sloppy Lingle,” is recuperating rapidly from his operation. It is hoped that he will soon be able to return to school. His presence has been sorely needed in making up the last two issues of The Davidsonian.

We hope that none of our dear freshies will be hunting for reveille oil and keys to the drill field while the inspectors are here today. Elections still running at full blast. If they don’t hurry and get over with them, we'll have to run school on through Junior Speaking to get them all chosen by April 15th!

College Comment
We are in receipt of an announcement from N. C. C. W. in regard to the coming Junior-Senior banquet. The glad tidings read that flowers sent from male guests will not “be in order” at the aforementioned banquet. The announcer adds, “After all, there is some merit and worthiness in womankind.” We have to agree that due to this one expression of the thoughtfulness of woman, undoubtedly there must be some merit and worthiness in them.

All of the members of the student council at Beloit College, Beloit, Wis., have decided to join the Anti-Suicide Club which has been organized by New York University. The club will gather data concerning student suicides and investigate the causes and possible motives for suicide.

The United States Bureau of Education estimates that there are 1,200,000 college graduates in the United States. And yet they say that there is always room for a college man—possibly they are referring to the spacious room that is ever present at the bottom of the ladder.

In a recent issue of the Ohio State Lantern, the merchants of Columbus, Ohio, expressed a unanimous opinion that college students were honest. Practically their only trouble with college students are checks which are returned; it is said, however, that all of these are usually taken up.

At the Sophomore informal at the University of California, all of the worthy sophs appeared in full beard. They had not shaved for twenty-nine days before this. The entire class had decided to do this at a secret meeting a month or so before.

Photographs of students of the school of Geology at the University of Oklahoma are kept on file in order to establish the identification system for use in making recommendations.

At the University of Texas, the men who are without female partners have to pay a stag tax for failing to bring a guest and showing the proper amount of patriotism. Evidently, there must be a Union of Those Girls Who Are Left Behind. From this procedure though, it would look as if some enterprising youth who brought six or eight could be paid a salary of some sort. (The assistant editor remarks that he would need a salary if he took that many girls anywhere).

An English scientist, Dr. Hull, has invented and perfected an electrical timing apparatus which will function down to a five-hundredth of a second. One will be used on the track at Cornell University in the meets this spring.

Baylor University is to have a journalism library as a memorial to the ten Baylor students who were killed in an automobile accident while on a basketball trip. This makes the third library of this kind in the United States.

The Athletic Association at V. P. I. has purchased a large bus to transport the various athletic representatives of the college when they make short trips throughout the state.

The N. C. State Technician and The Emory Wheel have a contest each week in writing stories for their publications. The announcement of the winner is made in the following issue of the paper.

During their Easter vacation, students in journalism at Northwestern University will be sent out to get practical experience as reporters and makeup men on daily papers.

At McGill University, the entire Senior class is wearing the cap and gown as a regulation garment.

The University of Denver will sponsor a European tour this semester for students in the school. The tour will last two weeks and a number of places of interest will be visited.

Students at Cornell University have adopted the caps of German students. The caps are round-topped, narrow visored, and are evident by their variety of colors.

The dramatic club at Colgate University is planning to produce a moving picture which will represent more truly collegiate life than some of those recently produced by the cinema corporations.

It is the custom in the Yale-Harvard crew races for the winning aggregation to have the privilege of taking the shirts of their opponents. Harvard has recently purchased new shirts. Are they optimistic or merely spendthrifts?

It will be interesting to observe how many students will become active in annual, Davidsonian, and magazine work when it is announced that the Press Convention this spring will be held at N. C. C. W. in Greensboro.