4 ed

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
A. N. IWEIN Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY Managing Editor
C. R. W. Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS Associate Editor
T. T. JONES Associate Editor
L. D. WADSWORTH Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY Assistant Business Manager
S. J. LISON Assistant Business Manager
W. L. Assistant Business Manager
J. H. Subscription Manager
B. DICKSON Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE Solicitor
H. M. Solicitor

Reporters’ Club

POLITICS ET AL

With football victories, championship fights, golf and tennis tournaments filling the limelight, Mr. Vox Populi and the various members of
his family including Johnny College have about forgotten that open season in the political world is just around the corner.
A great schedule has been arranged among the politicians for the coming season and various dopesters are all up in
the air as to the outcome of the various encounters. The withdrawal of McAdoo and Coolidge, the fight of Smith
and anti-Smith, and the contests of various other would-be presidential candidates have been discussed at length. It has been rumored
that various bets have been posted as to the length of the Democratic convention this year. Odds are eleven to
one that it will not approach the record set in 1924 by the best winded men the Democrats could produce.
At present, Coolidge’s appointment of his college mate, Morrow, as ambassador to Mexico has been most under discussion. Many have
argued violently that since Morrow is affiliated with the Morgan interests, his opinions and reports will be biased. But that
is very probably what Coolidge wanted. The Morgan syndicate holds the outstanding debt of Mexico and the progress and prosperity
of Mexico is something in which the Morgan interests are vitally interested. Morrow being affiliated with Morgan will work towards
such a goal, and it is this goal, a stable government in Mexico, that America has wanted for a number
of years. And since Morgan can profit only when Mexico prospers, it is certain that Morrow will contribute all that
he has to see such a condition exist in Mexico.

The big encounter on deck, and the contest which many have forgotten in the excitement of other fights, will be
the attempt of Smith and Vare to be seated in the senate. The Smith case is comparatively the more simple
of the two. In this, the question of expenditures and also the question as to who shall contribute towards the
campaign expenses of candidates is also at stake. The Insull interests have frankly admitted that they have contributed to the
campaign which Smith ran in Illinois. But this does not prove anything. There will be quite a few senators who
will question the right of the senate to rule that the representatives of a state are unworthy of being seated
in the senate. The Vare case runs a little deeper. During his campaign for senator and during the election, his
machine has been charged with certain irregularities at the ballot boxes, both in the primary and in the general elections.
And of course, there is also the charge of enormous expenditures of outside interests. To fully investigate this case would
require months, and it is foolish to think that the senate will conduct an investigation throughout Pennsylvania at each precinct
and county. In the Philadelphia city elections during the past week, the Vare machine ran true to form and their
candidates were elected. Reform elements were at work and the majority of the Vare cohorts was cut down considerably, but
still their candidates were elected. It is a question now as to how the senate will deal with the candidates
for seats, there are a number of ways by which they may be contested and the various ways determine the
number of votes it will take to eject the two from the senate. Whatever way is chosen it is certain
that the Republicans will be present to see that their interests are protected. The Republican majority is rather small and
the loss of these two men might cause the loss of the majority in the senate by the Republicans. And
it is plain that this will not happen as long as the Republicans are in power in the senate. They
would be foolish to lose their majority by ejecting two of their members. So it seems fairly certain that Smith
and Vare will remain in the senate. It does not seem likely that they will ever be ejected in the
first place, and then if they are, they will be reinstated by the people who elected them, so there you
are.

All in all, the schedule of the political season seems to be particularly good. Of course, all the dope may
be upset sooner or later, but no matter which way the wind blows there will still be plenty of room
left for discussion and speculation. From a personal viewpoint, it would seem that the Republicans will win the pennant under
the capable leadership of Captain Coolidge.

A GLORIOUS VICTORY

Enough praise cannot be heaped upon the heads of those fighting Cats who gained such a glorious victory in Gainesville
Saturday. Under adverse weather conditions, on a strange field, and outweighed at every point they put up a wonderful fight
and emerged victorious despite all the dopesters' predictions. It must be admitted that it was quite a surprise to all
Davidson followers, since very few expected victory for the Red and Black. But this adds rather than detracts from the
glory which is due the team that completely turned over the dope bucket. To those famous coaches of ours, Monk
and Tex, must also be given much praise. From exceedingly rough and raw material, they have filled up the ranks
left vacant by graduation last June and have welded a smooth, finished machine. It is foolish to make any predictions
so early in the season as to Davidson’s prospects for the rest of the year, but it is certain that
the team will not be any discredit to the institution. The state championship is still a long, long way off
and Davidson is doped to be a long way from it at the end of the season. And it may
turn out that way, but not without a struggle from Davidson. The student body must remember that it is its
duty to remain behind the team wholeheartedly. It is quite easy now after two victories, the team is fine, the
system is excellent and all that. But every student must remember that all days will not be as balmy and
bright as today. And it is the backing the team receives when outlooks are gloomiest that count in the long
run.

Open Forum

(Note: This department is conducted by the editor for the benefit of those who wish to express themselves in the
column. It is left to the discretion of the editor as to what articles will be printed, due to various
rules and regulations under which The Davidsonian is directed. All articles must be signed and turned over to the editor
before 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

HOW ABOUT VESPERS?

Last Sunday night at the vesper services there were approximately a hundred and fifty people present to hear the speaker.
Of these, twenty-five or thirty were either faculty members or townspeople. There were barely a hundred students there, hardly one-sixth
of the student body. There was no particular attraction away from the Hill this weekend to draw the boys away,
the only reason for the non-attendance being that the students did not want to come to vespers.

It hardly seems possible that the students deliberately ignore the only service which is strictly for the students. There is
all kinds of discussion against compulsory church attendance and yet the boys seem to refuse to come to their own
service of their own free will. The large majority of the student body come from Christian homes and it is
certain that they have not lost all of their values.

Ollapodrida

CHAFF

With the opening of the regular fall session at the University of Chicago, The Phoenix, student humorous publication failed to
make its appearance. Investigation showed that the publication, like its fabled predecessor, was dead. University authorities had banned its output.
In the words of the faculty, The Phoenix had too many references to gin, girls, snappy sketches, and general dissipation.
It was not typical of student life, which it claimed to represent. The Chicago publication is not alone in its
content.It is merely representative of the majority of such magazines and its extinction is a death knell to its prototypes
throughout the collegiate world. Postal authorities have applied their standards to the supposedly conservative wit and found it unfit for
the mails, as the University of Virginia editors discovered last year with one issue of the “Reel.” Last week at
the international air races in Italy, one Lieutenant Webster, of the British forces, arose in his plane and circled the
course at an average speed of 281.5 miles an hour or one mile every thirteen seconds. The former record of
246.0 an hour was held by an Italian. When Mr. Webster reached the ground after his amazing flight, he was
partially paralyzed, the air pressure having driven a good part of the blood from the upper part of his head.
Men will continue to increase the speed of their machines, but speed will continue to be useless to all practical
purposes until some protection from the air pressure can be discovered. Nevertheless, such competition develops powerful motors and aids progress.

Captain Roald Amundsen, Norwegian navigator of aerial parties to the North Pole, recently presented his autobiography to the general public
in book form in a rather unorthodox manner. He spends almost an entire chapter warning the public against giving too
much of the credit for the expedition in the Norge to his mechanic Nobile, who it seems has tried to
share too much of the glory with his egotistical employer. According to the narrative, Nobile secreted a large number of
Fascist flags on the machine and upon reaching the pole unloaded armfuls of them into the icy wastes below, while
the leader of the expedition had to content himself with the dropping of a single small Norwegian flag. Captain Amundsen
should be too great a man to indulge in childish squabbles.

According to official reports, Ford will not be able to place his new car on the market until December, giving
his competitors a few months of grace. In anticipation of its arrival, General Motors stock has dropped off and will
continue to drop. On a recent trial spin across Michigan, four new Fords “disguised” as old ancestors sped across the
state, covering six hundred miles in one day and the last sixty in less than an hour. One wonders that
the population did not suspect the hoax. Ad interim, Ford dealers wait, check over their dwindling funds, and hope for
quick production. Few cars have been sold since April, none since the first of July. Mr. Ford expects them to
maintain support through the sale of parts to the ten million old models now in use, but dealers have found
rough sledding and only slight sustenance.

Rear-Admiral Magruder, commander of the idle navy yard at Philadelphia, openly denounced the internal operations of the Navy Department by
means of the Saturday Evening Post last week. Said Admiral Magruder, “The United States is getting a $200,000,000 navy for
$300,000,000 annually.” Red tape and incomplete demobilization after the war were blamed for the loss. Secretary Wilbur, of the Navy
Department, reprimanded Admiral Magruder for such a publication without his sanction, which is a rule of the service, but offered
to investigate. Egged on by newspaper men, the Admiral defied the powers that be to oust him from his position
because of his truthful accusations. The cauldron has settled to boil again in a few weeks when official action is
taken. One is reminded of former Colonel Mitchell and his airplanes. The question might be raised as to whether it
is honorable for a publication to seek such an article from a subordinate official as “The Post” must have done.

And it hardly seems likely that the men of Davidson would refuse to support their own organization. And yet this
seems to be the case in regard to the “Y” vespers. Next Sunday night a nationally known speaker will be
here, making a special trip from Asheville just for the opportunity to speak to Davidson men. To have him talk
to a half-filled hall would be a deliberate insult. The man’s reputation alone should pack the house—and everyone is certain
besides that they will hear an excellent talk. It would be a tragedy if the Davidson student body should fail
in the one enterprise upon which the very foundation of the school is laid. We'll need six hundred men up
there next Sunday night, how ’bout it?

(Note—The following is a monologue overheard Saturday afternoon.)

Someone around here ought to invent a machine to keep you entertained on a Saturday afternoon. Too hot to play
golf, too much energy to play tennis, no money to go to Charlotte. But they are having a play-by-play report
at the gym. Might as well go down for that—hate to hear about the Wildcats getting beat though. Quite a
crowd down here, ought to be making plenty of money—more coming in every minute. Ought to have a cheerleader to
help things along a bit. No reports coming in yet, might as well be yelling as doing anything else. Platt
ought to print larger, can’t read who is starting for Davidson, and who cares about who is going to play
for Florida. “Davidson team came on the field five minutes ago.” Well, we are about to get started. (Lapse of
ten minutes). Can’t be much longer now. (Lapse of five minutes). Here we go now though,—false alarm, Branch is just
trying to get in communication with the other room. At last, Florida kicks off to Davidson. Things look bad for
the Wildcats. Say, who is that blonde over there? How could the ball have gotten way down there? They must
have skipped something somewhere. Milton arrives, where has he been? Says things will get started now. Five more plays lost.
Say that must have been some punt, ninety-five yards, I think that’s a lie myself. Look at those Wildcats move
down that field—here we go gang—and Flynn carries it over! Davidson six, Florida nothing. Ain’t that fine? How ’bout that
extra point? He should have gotten that. Those Gators are fighting now, suppose that team can’t stop ’em. On the
three-yard line—and the half, hurrah for the half. Never did know before that the half could be so useful. Might
as well go smoke a cigarette now while they are wasting time—Hey, wait, they ain’t even stoppin’. How in the
world did the ball get there? Here we are back in the first half again. Who’s runnin’ this game anyhow?
“Harrison going down the field.” “Passed thirty-yard line,” and Charley breaks through for about thirty yards. What in the world
is the matter with Dick today? He ought not to be missing all of these goals. Must have broken a
toe. Wish this half was over. Say, that quarter Florida has must be dumb—or else this thing is all wrong.
That’s three dumb tricks he’s pulled today. Hold ’em Wildcats. There goes another one of those peculiar punts for two
or three hundred yards. They must be having another hurricane down there today. Ain’t it the fourth quarter yet? If
we could only beat ’em! And Jake Wade said this morning that they had one of the best teams in
the conference. Fourth quarter, boy I hope it don’t last long. Wish Flynn could get loose again. And Nisbet goes
through for ten and first down. Wouldn't it be great if we could make another touchdown? And there they go.
Dick has gone again, measured it for first down—and made it! Here we go—Grey goes over for another score. Twelve
to nothing. How ’bout that? That passing game of Florida’s is supposed to be good and they have started on
it. Four minutes to play. Hold ’em Cats! Somebody has already started ringing the bell. Wish that time would pass.
And the game’s over! If Jake Wade’ll just keep on picking the other team, we'll be state champions yet!

An editor seems to be an unnecessary thing at Richmond University. The Collegian appeared this week without any assistance from
the editor, since he failed to come back to school, and a very excellent issue it was. Maybe editors won’t
feel so important from now on.

“Grandmother Out for Mayor” says a headline in a local paper. We knew that “Get your man” had been the
feminine slogan for some time, but we didn't know that they had started bragging about their prospects before. We hope
that the report that the Tarahumara Indians of the state of Chihuahua, Mexico have staged an uprising is not correct.
Think of the trouble the telegraph operators will have with those names. As bad as the sport writers when Paolino
Uzcudun, or whatever his name was, had his big fight with Delaney. From his name you can see they called
him the “Basque wood-chopper.”

Such a relief. We at last have learned what Coolidge meant by saying “I do not choose.” The national woman's
democratic club at Washington says that he means he is not a candidate for the presidency in 1928. He was
automatically deprived of their support when he issued such a terse statement. They don’t believe in such economy of words,
evidently. Well, the Florida boys can go home in peace now and enjoy themselves fully the entire two weeks for
Christmas.
