THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1927

VIRGINIA AGGREGATION
(Continued from page 1)

In the games this season they have been showing up well and while comparative scores mean absolutely nothing, they may be used here to give an idea of the strength of the two teams. V. M. I. defeated the Wofford College team 37-0 in the opening game and followed with a 22-0 victory over Richmond University. They next suffered defeat at the hands of Georgia Tech by a 7-0 margin, coming back to win from Roanoke 32-0. The past weekend they were downed by Maryland 10-6. From these scores, it looks as though they have been having a very good season.

The Davidson record is well known in this section and has also been good. They have booked four games in the win column and have had one tie. The Wildcat team has been in bad condition during the past week, due to many injuries. Harrison, with a strained leg, and Melton, with a dislocated shoulder, both acquired in the Wake Forest game, are the outstanding new injuries. McColgan, who has been on the bench for the past two weeks, is rounding into shape and will probably take part in the game. Piggy Wearn was out the last game, but it is generally thought that he will be in shape this week. Hampton, varsity center, has been out with a weak ankle. With a week to work into shape, most of these men are hoping to be ready for the game with V. M. I.

The Cadets are reported to be in good shape after the game with Maryland last Saturday, and will be ready for anything that the Wildcats may do to foil them, while the Wildcats will be equally anxious to pull a surprise upon the Cadets and put them on the march. With a crowd on hand that will probably number over ten thousand, and the two teams in fine mettle combined with a great spirit between the two schools proven by the talent game last year, this should be one of the best games to be played in the state this season.

The probable lineup follows:

V.M.I. Position Davidson
Rugh .......... Left End .......... Arrowood
Willard ....... Left Tackle ....... Hunt or McColgan
Monday (C) ... Left Guard ........ Hampton or McConnell
Harrison ...... Center ............ Melton
Hewlett ....... Right Guard ....... Laws
Brown ......... Right Tackle ...... McQueen
Hawkins ....... Right End ......... Wilson

AT THE THEATRES

Davidson

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
Constance Talmadge in Breakfast at Sunrise

WEDNESDAY
Olive Borden

THURSDAY
Wallace Beery and Raymond Hatton in Now We're in the Air

FRIDAY
Mary Astor in No Place to Go

SATURDAY
Shooting Irons

Official Pictures of TUNNEY-DEMPSEY FIGHT
Round by Round, Blow by Blow taken at the Ringside

Mrs. Cullum has sung in many mid-western cities before coming to Davidson this year with Professor Cullum. At the present time, Mrs. Cullum is soloist at the First A. R. P. Church in Charlotte.

The next four acts will be the stunts by the classes. Other social events will no doubt be arranged for the entertainment of the visitors. The president announces that three one-act plays be given from the class. Quite a bit of competition has been aroused among the organizations, and a lot of effort has been exerted on these numbers, each one promising an entertaining and amusing performance. The stunts have been under the charge of one man from each class. The Freshman stunt has been developed by Frank Pilcher, the Sophomore by Jim Matthews, the Junior by Brown McQueen, and the Senior by Tyree Dillard.

A Siamese kitten was recently rescued by President Garfield from the Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.new to the students, eraehee introduced by Professor beset eee teva Eh dar 3 Charlotte, N. C. Barnes --_-- Harrison Cullum. In connection with the Glee Club number, the Sunnyland Serenaders, Davidson’s Jazz Orchestra, will play a number of the latest jazz hits. Under the direction of Charlie Albright they have established a repertoire consisting of the latest and newest selections from the jazz world and promise to render them in best style.

The program will be given tomorrow night, October 29th, in Shearer Hall, as the final event in the Home-coming Day program, beginning promptly at 8:00 o'clock. 

EXTRAORDINARY FEATURES
Foremost in the minds of University men, the play will have a rather large cast and much work has been put into it by the members of the club. It is in charge of J. V. Guthrey and Professor Erwin, and promises to be a very entertaining performance. Following the play, Ed Wilson and Howard Reid Mobley will present a special stunt in which a piano will be used. Further information about this number has been refused by the two performers, with the statement that it will be quite a novelty and that it will be much more pleasing without too much advance information.

The next act will be a number of solos by Mrs. Cullum. Mrs. Cullum is reported to be rather high up in musical circles, having done prominent vocal work in Chicago and other cities.

FRATERNITY BID REGULATIONS
The following statements were made by Howard Arbuckle, president of the Pan Hellenic Fraternity Council, with regard to Bid Day: The day of silence enjoined upon the members of the various fraternity men and freshmen begins at 10:30 Monday night and lasts until 7:30 Tuesday night, November 1, which has been decided upon as Bid Day. Bids will be extended to freshmen by teams of two men each from the Pan-Hellenic Council. Freshmen are urged to remain in their rooms to facilitate extending of bids. On Tuesday night at 7:30 Freshmen receiving one bid may designate their acceptance by going to the house of that fraternity. Those receiving more than one bid will remain in their rooms for conferences with the various fraternities bidding them. Each fraternity may send two men for these interviews which shall not last more than 30 minutes. At the completion of these conferences each Freshman may have one-half hour for decision after which time he is asked to go to the house of his choice. The various local fraternities will be represented at a meeting of the Pan-Hellenic Council where the tendering of bids will be arranged for, as well as interviews in the cases of those Freshmen receiving more than one bid. Freshmen are especially urged to go to the house of their accepted fraternity as soon as possible and to send no one in their places.

EAT AT THE STUDENTS STORE
SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
It’s yours, why not patronize it?

Charlotte, N.C.