THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 13, 1927

Branch Represents Alumni at Conference in Atlanta

More than 20 representatives of the alumni and alumnae associations of leading Southern colleges and universities assembled in Atlanta last Saturday for the annual regional conference of the Third District of the American Alumni Council. Harllee Branch, Jr., assistant alumni secretary, attended the conference as a delegate of the Davidson Alumni Association. The sessions of the conference were held at the Ansley Hotel in Atlanta, and were presided over by Mr. Richard Thigpen, alumni secretary of Duke University. Wilfred B. Shaw, alumni secretary of the University of Michigan, and one of the national officers of the American Alumni Council, attended the convention and spoke on the Objectives and Mechanics of Alumni work. Mr. Shaw was one of the original founders of the movement which culminated last year in the consolidation of the American Alumni Funds Association, the American Publishers of Alumni Magazines, and the American Alumni Secretaries into the present American Alumni Council. It was announced at the meeting that the national convention of the Council would be held in May, at Minneapolis, Minn. The sessions of the conference lasted throughout Saturday morning, and included a conference breakfast and a conference luncheon. Delegates were guests of the Georgia Tech Alumni Association at the Tech-Tulane football game Saturday afternoon.

Interesting phases of alumni work and organization were discussed by the delegates, and various problems in alumni administration were considered. This was the first regional conference to be held in this section.

Rifle Team to Meet and Elect Officers

The first step towards the organization of the Davidson rifle team will be taken the first of next week when all the participants will meet to elect a team captain. The firing squadron is getting an early start so as to be in trim for the eliminations the latter part of October. The team will make a trip to Gastonia, where they will fire against the Gastonia Rifle Club. They will probably compete with a civilian rifle team at Mooresville. The intercollegiate contests will be held later on in the season and on a different basis from the civilian matches. No trips will be made. Each of the colleges will hold a shoot on their respective ranges and a comparison of the scores will be held to pick the winners. Lieutenant Beckett will sponsor the rifle team this year. There are good prospects for a winning team this year, judging from the interest shown in the various contests.

New Book Studied at Weekly Meeting

At their regular meeting last Sunday, the study of a new book called "Progressive Endeavor," by Amos R. Wells, a noted authority on young people's work, was begun. The textbook is very similar to "The School of Experience" in spirit and in fact. The latter is based on actual practice, while the book now in use is more theoretical in its nature. The meeting Sunday was opened by the customary short song service. Introductory remarks about the study book were made, after which the first chapter, entitled "What Is Christian Endeavor?" was discussed. Following this, Tom Hill spoke on "Defining Christian Endeavor," and Bill Moye made a short talk on "Defining Christian Endeavor by Its Motto," and Bill Hill on "A Concise Definition of Christian Endeavor." The meeting was concluded by Bill Milton, who explained "Why Young People Are Attracted to C.E."

Contracts for 1927-28 Quips and Cranks Let

The same firms as last year will do all the work on the yearbook. The contract for the engraving was let to the Charlotte Engraving Company, of Charlotte, N.C. The Queen City Printing Company, also of Charlotte, received the contract for the printing, and the White Studios, of New York City, received the contract for the photography necessary for the annual. These firms did the work on last year’s "Quips and Cranks." The staff is independent.organization, conducted entirely—no other tobacco is like it! of 1927 expressed their utmost satisfaction by members of the student body, and is open to anyone who would care to have a part. © 1927, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C. Announcement was made at the Atlanta record Davidson made last year in the various activities. The very first pipe-load. It is so gentle to Lights Out. Get yourself a tidy tin. The issues were successfully solved. This was to cover a period of five months. Remember, the longest is that wonderful Sumidors with "Quips and Cranks" have already been let. The contract for the Christian Endeavor by its name. E. P. Albert of Charlotte received the contract for the endeavor. PRINCE ALBERT are the same firms that had the contract for this important work. The attendance at the C. E. Training Class is thoroughly retained. It has been decided to continue to have individual photographs of everyone. This custom was started by last year’s staff. Bob Platt announces that the individual photographs will be finished this week. Better pictures are expected this year as more time was given to each picture than heretofore. The annual will be approximately the same size as it was last year. The plans are as yet a secret. However, Witt Hancock, editor-in-chief, says that some historical theme will be used throughout the annual. As yet this theme has not been revealed, but it is known that the man will be one who is closely related to Davidson College. Another point of interest of the 1928 “Quips and Cranks” will be the art work. Before, all the art work has been done by professionals, but this year the staff has decided to let it be done by the students. There seems to be sufficient talent in the college that it ought to be done very efficiently and much more cheaply. Dr. William Joseph Martin, Jr., ’23, will be located at Northeastern Hospital, Allegheny Avenue and Tulip Street, Philadelphia, until January 1st. After that time he will be located at the Episcopal Hospital, Philadelphia. Rev. J. K. Fleming, ’19, was recently elected Stated Clerk of the Winston-Salem Presbytery. James H. Hall, ’27, is studying at Duke University, where he is enjoying a graduate fellowship in English. The largest deputation now being considered for this fall is the one to the Western Division of the Older Boys’ Conference, which will meet in Hickory this year. Davidson men will be in charge of the discussion groups and will play an important part in the conference. 

Josephus Daniels, national trustee of the Near East Relief for the State of North Carolina, highly commended Lex Kluttz, ’23, new director of the Near East Relief for North and South Carolina, while in Charlotte recently en route to Raleigh with Mrs. Daniels. “For three years, since his return to the Carolinas, he has been Director for South Carolina and under his leadership for two years certain cities of that State won the honor of having the most unique and thorough campaigns for this cause in the United States,” Mr. Daniels declared in part. Mr. Kluttz graduated from Davidson in 1923, having been a leading athlete, student, and religious worker. He is a nephew of the late Theo. F. Kluttz, of Salisbury. He is a World War veteran and served overseas for more than two years, having entered Edinburgh University in Scotland shortly after the close of the war, where he did post-graduate work preparatory to going to the Near East. During his service in the Near East, he had some trying experiences, especially in some of the disasters in Turkey, Armenia, and Greece. He was in Japan at the time of the great earthquake several years ago and was successful in getting some valuable pictures of the chaotic conditions on the island following the quake. Shortly after his arrival in America, he visited Davidson where he lectured to students on the Orient, showing the pictures which he had made in Japan.

M. P. Crawford
QUICK SERVICE
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
BEST PRICES
McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr.
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Agent for Charlotte, N. C.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.