THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1927

Prominent Educator to Speak for Phi Beta Kappa Initiation

Local officers of Phi Beta Kappa announce that Dr. David A. Robertson, of Washington, D. C., will be the speaker
at the initiation of the new members recently elected, on December 9th. Dr. Robertson is Associate Director of the National
Council of Education, being in charge of the division of International Relations. Although he is a relatively young man, he
has occupied positions of great importance in the field of education particularly. For several years he was secretary to the
president of the University of Chicago. Dr. Robertson has been Professor of English in the same institution, the editor of
several of its publications, and for a number of years, dean of the College of Liberal Arts. To many educators,
he is best known as the Secretary of the Association of American Universities. In the latter capacity he had more
to do than anyone else, with the preparation of the list of colleges “approved by the Association of American Universities.”
This list is not only used by the various deans in the universities of this country in the matter of
admission of college graduates to their various graduate and professional schools, but is also in constant use at the University
of Oxford in the grouping of Rhodes Scholars. Dr. Robertson is a member of the Cosmos Club of Washington, of
the City Club of New York and of the University and Quadrangle Clubs in Chicago. He is a Presbyterian and
a prominent church man. The initiation at which Dr. Robertson will speak, will take place on December 9th, the public
ceremony being held in Shearer Hall before townspeople and students, as has been the custom for several years.

Davidson Program Given Over Radio

As a prelude to the Home-coming Day celebration here Saturday, the alumni office, under the auspices of Dr. J. P.
Matheson, president of the general alumni council, Thursday evening staged a special radio program, which was broadcast to listeners all
over the southeast from the studio of WBT in Charlotte. By means of the radio, a personal invitation was extended
to Davidson alumni throughout the country, urging them to return to the college for Saturday’s game and festival. Among the
speakers on the radio program were Dr. J. P. Matheson, president of the council; Dr. Oren Moore, member of the
council; Mr. F. L. Jackson, business manager of the college; Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, prominent alumnus of Charlotte; Ernest Milton,
alumni secretary; and Harllee Branch, Jr., assistant alumni secretary. Musical numbers were rendered by the Davidson quartette, the jazz orchestra,
and Ed Wilson, soloist of the glee club. Telegrams from all sections of the southeast indicated that a large number
of Davidson alumni and friends had tuned in for the program and enjoyed it immensely. It is believed that a
number of alumni, who reside in distant cities, were reached by the radio, and learned of the entertainment that is
to be staged for their benefit here Saturday.

Eminent Speakers to Address Y.M.C.A.

According to a statement made by H. B. Arbuckle, who has charge of the weekly meetings of the Y. M.
C. A., Davidson will have at the “Y” vesper services for the next two months, such eminent speakers as Dr.
E. G. Gammon, Dr. Vander Meulen, Bishop E. A. Penick, Dr. J. S. Foster, Rev. Douglas L. Rights, and Morgan
Blake. The speaker for next Sunday night, November 6th, has not yet been definitely decided on, but Dr. E. G.
Gammon will very probably talk. Dr. Gammon is the pastor of Myers Park Presbyterian Church, of Charlotte, N. C., and
is well known to the upper classmen. Dr. Vander Meulen, the president of the Louisville Theological Seminary, will hold a
series of lectures, starting Sunday night, November 13th, and continuing until Wednesday. This will be the annual fall meeting of
the Y. M. C. A. On November 20th, Bishop E. A. Penick, of Charlotte, N. C., who is the head
of the Diocese of North Carolina, will speak. Bishop Penick, who is a polished speaker, has been here a number
of times and has always drawn a big crowd. Dr. J. S. Foster, who is the father of one of
the members of our Senior class, will address the student body on November 27th. Dr. Foster is the pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, N. C. Rev. Douglas L. Rights, also of Winston-Salem, will lecture on the night
of December 4th. At present, it is undecided who will speak on December 11th, but attempts are being made to
have Morgan Blake, the sports writer of the Atlanta Journal, come here to address us. The Glee Club will have
charge of the meeting on December 18th, which will be a special Christmas music service.Vice-President A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

The Commercial National Bank

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve you. 4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Trust
Department under supervision of United States. Make us your Executor. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

CREDENZA, $300.00

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
All Models in Stock--Easy Terms
Prices $95 to $1,000
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Phi Beta Kappa Chapter Represented by Eleven Frats and Ten States
North Carolina Leads Other States in Members

WIDE REPRESENTATION
Pi Kappa Alpha and S. A. E. Lead Fraternities

Since the establishment of the Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa in 1923, 40 men have been elected to membership
in this organization, according to an announcement recently made by Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, president of the local chapter. The
men have come from varied sections as the following representation shows: North Carolina 10, Georgia 6, Virginia 5, South Carolina
4, Alabama 4, China 3, Tennessee 2, Florida 2, Texas 2, and Mississippi 1.

Turning to college social groups, it is shown that 17 of the 40 men belonged to no fraternity, either national
or local. At the date of their election to Phi Beta Kappa, the fraternal connections of the other 23 men
were as follows: Pi Kappa Alpha 5, Sigma Alpha Epsilon 5, Beta Theta Pi 3, Delta Theta Chi 3, Sigma
Delta 2, Phi Gamma Delta 1, Kappa Alpha 1, Pi Kappa Phi 1, Theta Upsilon Omega 1, and the Pyramid
Club 1.

The second election of this organization will probably come in March, when it is the custom to choose several other
Seniors who have distinguished themselves in scholastic affairs particularly.

Leading Officer of Volunteers Speaks

At its regular meeting Sunday, the Volunteer Band departed from its usual custom of programs conducted by student-members, and was
fortunate in hearing Miss Edna Johnson, of Emporia College, Emporia, Kansas. Miss Johnson, a traveling secretary of the Volunteer Movement,
was scheduled to speak in Charlotte Sunday evening. Although it was not on her program, she kindly consented to speak
to the local organization.

Miss Johnson is one of the youngest of the Volunteer Movement’s Secretaries. In her talk to the band, she contrasted
the relative progress of Science and Mechanics with Christianity. She further pointed out that belligerent nations could only be pacified
and wars made to cease by a Christianized world. In closing, Miss Johnson spoke of the coming World Conference which
is to be held at Detroit. About five thousand delegates are expected to attend this conference, the theme of which
will be “How We Can Best Share Christ With Others!”

TWO NEW WILDCATS (Continued from page 1)

the scales at forty-five pounds. He has the true fighting spirit as no means of coaxing could persuade him to
be shut up in his new cage for exhibition at the V. M. I. game Saturday, and only by means
of chloroform was he subdued.

The two Wildcats will be under the personal care of “Doc” Charlie, who for many years has been a faithful
servant and supporter of the Wildcat team.

Faculty Conducts Golf Tournament

Final arrangements have been made by the members of the faculty golf team for the semi-annual tournament and the two
flights are announced as follows:

First flight: Moffatt vs. Wood, Fulcher vs. Brown, Watts vs. Blythe, Hobart vs. Mebane.
Second flight: Cullum vs. Cumming, Schenck vs. Roseberry, H. Elliott vs. Crow, and Branch vs. “Bo” Elliott.

In the preliminaries, Brown won over Fulcher and Blythe defeated Watts, but the other two matches have not been played
as yet. None of the second flight pairings have contested. The winners of the faculty tournament will probably meet a
team composed of students when they have been selected, according to those in charge.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Some call it mellowness... Some say that Camel is the mellowest cigarette ever made. Some say that it’s mild and
smooth. It’s really all good things in one, and that is why it is supreme upon the pinnacle of modern
favor. Camel’s popularity today is the largest that any cigarette ever had. And, it costs something to make this kind
of a smoke. It costs the choicest tobaccos that money can buy, and a blending that spares neither time nor
expense. Each Camel cigarette is as full of value as the world of tobacco can give. You can be sure
of smoking pleasure, serene and full, in these quality cigarettes. Smoke all of them you want; they simply never tire
the taste. “Have a Camel!”

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
