THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 20, 1927

Covington Elected as O.D.K. Delegate
Mack Austin Selected as Alternate — Convention at University of Virginia

The National Convention of the Omicron Delta Kappa Honorary Fraternity will be held at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va. on February 18th and 19th, 1927. The Omicron Circle at this institution will be hosts of the occasion. The National Conventions of Omicron Delta Kappa are held bi-annually. The last several conventions of the fraternity have been held at William and Mary College, Centre College, University of Richmond, University of Pittsburgh, and Washington and Lee University.

Various problems are to come before the delegates, notably that of the extension of Circles to Technical Schools. At the present time, there are no Circles of Omicron Delta Kappa in Agricultural and Mechanical Colleges or institutions of that type. Davidson College Delta Circle will send as its delegate W. T. Covington, with H. M. Austin as alternate. Dr. T. W. Lingle of the Davidson College Faculty will also attend.

W. T. Covington, a member of the Senior class, is one of the most prominent and influential men on the campus. He is a leading figure in local O.D.K. circles, having been taken into this order during the spring term of his Junior year. Both in class and student affairs at large he has taken an active part, having been honored by his classmates and fellow students because of his recognized ability as a leader many times. He was vice-president of his class his Freshman year and was elected to lead it the year following. Last year he served as vice-president of the student body, and has served on the Student Council for the last three years. He also has taken a marked part in the religious life of Davidson, serving his Junior year as vice-president of the Y.M.C.A., is now a member of its Cabinet, and has previously gone out on deputations. He is also a member of Phi Kappa, Omega Phi Alpha, the International Relations Club, the Reporters Club, and a wearer of the Golden Quill. Covington is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

H. M. Austin is likewise a prominent leader in campus affairs, and has devoted much of his time in bringing Davidson recognition in literary fields of college publications. At present, he is Editor-in-Chief of the Chameleon, formerly the Davidson College Magazine; and his talent in the line of poetry and prose is recognized as very pronounced, as evidenced by his holding several positions in literary societies. He is also a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

GOLF COURSE IMPROVED

During the last few weeks, improvements have been made on the golf course. The ninth green has been shifted back towards the tee about 75 yards, at the foot of the hill. This green is not in playing shape yet but will be in a month’s time. The tee on the ninth hole has also been moved back about 20 yards. The second hole will be used as the first hole, the tee being placed near the woods by the Freshman Athletic Field. Under the new order, the golf course will contain two fairly long holes and two others of moderate length. Within a few weeks' time, the greens on the other holes will be improved for the spring season. The sheep are still keeping the grass cropped. New bunkers will probably be installed on several holes.

Golf has proved to be one of the most popular sports among the Davidson students. At least one-third of the students are involved in this activity.

"Since 1868 the Home of Good Shoes"

We Never Hear a Man Ask for “Just Anything” in Footwear Nowadays

O, SIR! Men have decidedly emphatic ideas of what they require of footwear now---and the number of satisfied Gilmer-Moore customers are continually increasing. Have you seen our Fall lines for young men? They’re the best we’ve ever had!

Gilmer-Moore Company
HOSIERY LUGGAGE

Every minute $1104 worth of property is consumed by fire and every day 42 persons burned to death with 46 injured. Be careful and help stop this awful waste.

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr.
Insurance Department
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

WHEN IN STATESVILLE CALL ON US FOR YOUR BARBER SHOP WANTS
Statesville, N.C.
4 Barber Shop

Prof. J. C. Bailey, of the Davidson faculty, connected with the Greek and Bible departments, will be the speaker for “Y” services on Sunday, January 23rd. Prof. Bailey was an honor man of ’22, O.D.K., very prominent in student activities and altogether an outstanding man on the campus. He was a member of the College faculty, known as a very successful teacher and popular instructor, enjoying the respect and admiration of his students.Admiration of the student body. Exhibits from Union and a time head of the Davidson City | Columbia | Seminaries have been | is now being prepared on Louisville Seminary, which will be put up immediately. There is also an exhibit of C. E. T. C. material at the Y room.

The officers take pride in the fact that they have booked four big pictures which are well known and recommended as the finest photo-plays of the year, but at the same time they feel that they have taken quite a risk in engaging these rather expensive productions and unless the whole student body co-operates and helps the Y by attending, a financial loss will be incurred. So the Y takes this means of asking your help in this matter, knowing that both you and they will feel well repaid in the proposition.

A number of prominent men are being lined up for the Vocational Guidance Institute in the Spring. More later.

The checker tournament will begin possibly on Monday, all the games being played in the Y room. As mentioned before, the winner will be given free admissions to the four big shows booked by the Y, while the runner-up will be allowed two free shows, and the other two men in the semi-finals will be given one admission apiece.

The State-wide meeting of the Y. M. C. A. will be held in Greensboro on February 8 and 9. Davidson’s quota is seven men and anyone who is interested and would like to go, is asked to see either Bill Christian or Jim Appleby.

On Sunday, January 30th, Dr. Vander Meulen, president of Louisville Seminary, will preach in the morning at the College Church, and in the evening will have charge of the Y vespers. Dr. Vander Meulen is a distinguished preacher and speaker and will bring an excellent message. All desiring interviews with him are invited to do so, the Y room being available.

Although some of the Y cabinet will be away during exams, the work of the Y will go on just the same, nor will any phase of work be neglected. The Y wishes to become as helpful as possible in the life on the campus, and desires to invite any and all suggestions that would help it in being more efficient. Anyone having a suggestion to make is urged to see Jim Appleby or Bill Christian at once.

PERSONALS
(Continued from page 5)
Dowell has lived a prominent life at Charlotte. He was a former mayor of Charlotte, having served two terms. He is remembered especially at Davidson for his gift of the present college bell.

Selby Ice Cream Co.
GOOD ICE CREAM
Statesville, N. C.

Dr. J. S. Gilmer, class of ’86, died January 5th, at the age of 62 years, after an illness of five days. He lived in the Alamance Church community of Guilford county, where he had practiced medicine for 35 years. He was very much interested in educational improvement and was a member of the County Board of Education.

The Mormon Church renounced polygamy at its general conference held at Salt Lake City in 1890.

Students have played it one time or another during the year. This is especially true during the spring season.

NEW BOOKS IN "A STUDENT IN ARMS"
Here is the best example of good old wartime humor that we could find, published in Quips and Cranks some years back.

To all men who make a hobby of pipes:
Maybe you've spent half your life and fortune on this old hobby—collecting everything from peace-pipes down to the latest “L and Maria” underslung. Maybe you know the pipe encyclopedia from amber Americanus to Zula zuago. But if you're a pipe smoker, you learned long ago that no matter how much a man may know about trick pipes and pipe tricks, what he gets out of any pipe depends on what he puts in it. And if you know your tobaccos, you know that any pipe’s a sweeter smoke when packed with grand and glorious old Granger Rough Cut... The finest Burley that grows, mellowed Wellman’s way and specially cut for pipes... A man may have a hundred pipes but he needs only one tobacco... and that’s Granger. For whether you put it in a meerschaum or a corn-cob, Granger is always the same cool, sweet tobacco... worthy of any pipe in the world.

GRANGER ROUGH CUT
The half-pound vacuum tin is forty-five cents, the foil-pouch package, sealed in glassine, is ten cents.
Granger Rough Cut is made by the Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company.