THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927

ALUMNI NEWS

Alumni Deaths

The following notices of the deaths of two prominent Davidson ministers have been clipped from one of the church papers:

Rev. W. C. Clark, D.D., '71

Rev. W. C. Clark, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Sheffield, Ala., died at his home in Sheffield on
Sunday, March 20, 1927. He was ill only a few days with pneumonia. He was buried the following day from
the church. The services were conducted by Rev. D. W. Hollingsworth of Florence, Ala. and Rev. F. W. Lewis, D.D.,
of Courtland, Ala., assisted by Methodist and Baptist pastors representing the Ministerial Association. Dr. Lewis was a classmate of Dr.
Clark’s in the class that graduated from Union Seminary, Virginia, in 1875. Drs. Chester, Guerrant, Moffett, McConnell, and other faithful
pastors were also members of this class. Dr. Clark made full proof of his ministry, and during his long service
served important charges in Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, and Kentucky. He was a faithful minister and a model presbyter. He was
always deeply interested in Home Missions, and served the Home Mission Work in an executive capacity in the synods of
Alabama, Tennessee, and Kentucky. Rev. W. M. Clark, D.D., has long been a valued missionary in Korea, and one of
his daughters is also in that land. Dr. Clark leaves a wife and three daughters to mourn his loss. He
was for a number of years the efficient stated clerk of North Alabama Presbytery and died in that office.

Rev. H. R. Overcash

The funeral service of Rev. H. R. Overcash was conducted from the St. Mark’s Church in China Grove Monday afternoon,
at 3 o'clock, by Rev. W. C. Brown, of Barium Springs, a classmate of Mr. Overcash in both college and
seminary. He was assisted by Rev. J. S. McBride of the Front Street Presbyterian Church and Dr. E. D. Brown,
of Statesville, and Mr. P. Y. Brown, pastor of St. Marks. Nephews of Mr. and Mrs. Overcash were pallbearers, and
nieces carried the flowers. Rev. Mr. Overcash was born in Statesville, February 25, 1867. He married Miss Lou Kimball, of
China Grove, who survives him, together with a son and two daughters. Mr. Overcash had been a minister in the
Presbyterian Church for the past 30 years, having held pastorates in several southern states, much of his work being done
in the home mission field. Due to declining health he gave up his work two years ago and has been
living in China Grove.

FITHIAN-ROBSON

“Mr. and Mrs. Frank Livingstone Fithian request the honor of your presence at the marriage of their daughter, Naomi Vernam,
to Doctor George McCrea Robson, on Saturday, the thirteenth of April, at half after seven o'clock, at the First Presbyterian
Church, Haddonfield, New Jersey.”

The above announcement has been received by many friends here, and carries with it a great deal of interest by
the prominence of Dr. Robson, who finished at Davidson in 1910, and his mother, who is in charge of the
college infirmary, both of whom are known by hundreds of alumni. After finishing at Davidson, Dr. Robson went to the
University of Maryland for his medical degree, and took first honors in his class. Last year he did interne work,
but his record at the University was of such splendid nature that he was offered a position as instructor, and
is at the same time pursuing his studies in post-graduate courses.

Alumni Executives Will Convene In Chapel Hill On Last of April

Milton and Jackson to Represent Davidson at Convention of Alumni Secretaries

The tentative program for the annual convention of the National Association of Alumni Secretaries, which is to be held at
Chapel Hill at the University of North Carolina, April 27-30, has been announced by Mr. Daniel F. Grant, president of
the Association of North Carolina Alumni Association, who is Carolina's field secretary. A copy has been received by the local
secretary. Between 150 and 200 of the most prominent alumni in the country are expected for the convention, which is
to be held at the Carolina Inn. In addition to executives interested in the work, those nationally known educational leaders
will appear before that body. The Davidson Association will be represented by Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the Davidson
organization, and Ernest Milton, the alumni secretary. Among the outstanding speakers to address the convention will be Dr. Hamilton Holt,
president of Rollins College; Dr. Rollo G. Reynolds, vice-provost of Teachers College, New York City; Robert Sibley, alumni secretary of
the University of California; W. B. Shaw, secretary of the University of Michigan; Levering Tyson, editor of Alumni News, and
former alumni secretary, Columbia University; James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary of Notre Dame; Hawley Tapping, alumni secretary of the University
of Michigan; Okeson, of Lehigh University; Ray Brooks, alumni secretary of Colgate; and John G. Walter Olmstead, alumni secretary of
Oberlin College. The program includes talks on many problems which have faced and are now facing the Alumni Association of
Davidson College, and representatives of this institution are expected to return with a wealth of ideas for work begun at
Davidson this year.

NEW OFFICERS OF Y.M.C.A.

(Continued from page 10)

...representatives to act for them lose all interest ourselves select us and, leaving...The entire burden upon the officers. He stated
that there are two ways in which we can be of definite service to the Y.M.C.A. First, we can promote
the work of the Y.M.C.A. by attendance. Through attendance, we are not only benefited ourselves but we influence others to
come. The second is in our prayers. The officers and the cabinet can do much better work when they know
that there are those who are praying for them.

Lance Quality Products Delivered same day made.
LANCE PACKING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
All Dealers

Myers Hardware and Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Sporting Goods Co.

Personal
Crosland, ex-’28, Charlotte, Bob star champion tennis Bill April 7, and press reports stated that “he carried the rank- United
States a of met the famous Tilden in Asheville on ing tennis shark of the lively pace before the Charlottean
was finally eliminated from the Blue Ridge Tournament. The score of the sets were 6-2, 6-1.”

Dr. R. M. King, 1900, elected a school commissioner at Concord, being incumbent of this office during last year, and
defeating his opponent in the primary at that city last week.

The Louisville Alumni Association has surrendered the lead this week in percentage of contributors to the Davidson College Loyalty League,
the Statesville organization forging ahead when several additional members were sent in. Statesville’s percentage is now 57.5 percent.

Friends will regret to learn that Rev. J. E. Flow, D.D., 1900, has been recuperating at his home in Lewisburg,
W. Va., from a major operation.

W. D. Lawson, ’18, who is now at Gastonia, will soon change his residence to Laurinburg.

Thirtieth Reunion To Be Held By Class of 1897
Plans for Banquet and Meeting Made by Group

Considerable assistance has been rendered to the alumni secretary in correcting the list of alumni in the classes which are
scheduled to have reunions this year. The Davidsonian is printing today the present roll of the class of 1897, in
the hope that alumni and friends of the college will be of further aid. This class will have its thirtieth
reunion this year, and extensive plans are being made by the group to have their own banquet and meeting. The
list follows:

William Banks, Columbia, S.C.
C. L. Barringer, Box 407, Charlotte.
E. H. Bean, Salisbury.
L. C. Burgin, Marion.
Angus Cromartie, Garland.
Prof. A. Currie, Davidson.
Rev. P. A. Drennan, Liberty Hill, S.C.
Rev. R. S. Eskridge, Swannanoa.
W. A. Goodman, Salisbury.
C. L. Hagan, Greensboro.
E. L. Hall, Lenoir.
J. W. Hall, Sr., Statesville.
Eben Hardie, New Orleans, La.
E. H. Harrison, Salisbury.
Hon. P. P. Henderson, Aiken, S.C.
C. L. Hunter, 900 N. Graham St., Charlotte.
Dr. P. M. King, Charlotte.
Rev. R. H. Kirkpatrick, D.D., Anderson, S.C.
R. B. Knox, Newton.
W. F. Lightsey, Crocketville, S.C.
J. R. McQueen, Lakeview.
R. G. Mills, Chester, S.C.
E. B. Pancake, Staunton, Va.
H. C. Reid, Route 2, Charlotte.
B. Sloop, Crossnore.
Rev. T. H. Spence, Harrisburg.
Dr. W. G. Stevens, Rock Hill, S.C.
W. C. Stewart, Charlotte.
W. H. Whyte, Columbia, S.C.
E. M. Williams, Route 2, York, S.C.
Dr. J. M. Williams, Warsaw.
J. D. Williams, New Bern.
J. M. Wolfe, Salisbury.
Dr. H. H. Wyman, Aiken, S.C.

ELEVEN CAMPUS LEADERS TAPPED BY LOCAL CIRCLE
(Continued from page 1)

The actual tapping of new members was carried out in a dignified and impressive manner, with active members of the
local chapter stepping down into the audience and inviting the selected men to follow to the platform. The exercises were
concluded with the singing of the college song, all students joining in this number.

The names of the nine alumni members, who have been elected and who will be initiated at the public initiation
ceremonies next week, have not been revealed by officials of the chapter. These newly elected men will be initiated April
26th. Dr. Smith, Washington and Lee University, will be the speaker of the occasion. A banquet will be held at
the Maxwell Chambers Hotel after the initiation ceremonies and then the public address by Dr. Smith will be given in
Shearer Hall. The complete program will be as follows: 6:30, initiation at the Quadrangle Club; 8:00, public ceremony at Shearer
Hall, address by Dr. Henry Louis Smith; 9:00, banquet at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel.

In the sludgy, squdgy creek,
Where the silence hung that heavy
You was ’arf afraid to speak!”
-Kipling’s “Mandalay”

ELEPHANTS

The elephant is man’s most intelligent helper. But—consider this interesting comparison: An elephant is much larger than the electric “yarder”
or logging machine. The “yarder” has the power of twenty elephants; it handles clusters of logs; it works dependably, twenty-four
hours at a stretch, if necessary. Twenty elephants would eat daily 10,000 pounds of green food, which a corps of
attendants must gather. A motor “eats” nothing but electricity, supplied at the throw of a switch. Two million elephants could
not do the work now being done by General Electric motors. Whatever the work to be done, whether it needs
the power of an elephant or the force of a man’s arm, there is a General Electric motor that will
do it faithfully for a lifetime at a cost of a few cents an hour. Power used in the modern
industrial world is applied through electric motors—tireless “elephants” that are relegating antiquated machines to museums, along with such old-time household
articles as wash-tubs and ordinary irons—and stuffed elephants.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK
