8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 24, 1927

Fraternity Ideals to be Emphasized

Dr. Ralph W. Sockman, pastor of the Madison Avenue Methodist Episcopal Church and a leader in New York's progressive pulpit, will be the principal speaker before the Interfraternity Conference when a two-day session is opened at the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York, November 25. Dr. Sockman’s address will be devoted to a discussion of fraternity ideals.

Dr. John J. Tigert, United States Commissioner of Education, and Dr. Josiah H. Penniman, provost of the University of Pennsylvania, will be the principal speakers at a dinner of delegates to the Interfraternity Conference and visiting college officials tonight. Dr. Francis W. Shepherdson, former Commissioner of Education in Illinois and a leader in national fraternity work, will preside at the dinner. Judge William R. Bayes, prominent in the New York bar, will preside at the Interfraternity Conference, at which 200 fraternity delegates and American college officials will discuss educational and fraternal problems. Robert H. Neilson will act as secretary.

Nearly every college in the country will be represented at the conference, most prominent among them Columbia, Cornell, Illinois, Yale, Penn State, Michigan, Rutgers, Wisconsin, Minnesota, California, and others.

Ballot Refused in Municipal Election

Princeton, N. J—(By New Student News Service).—A long fight on the part of The Daily Princetonian to win for the students the right to vote at municipal elections, a fight begun when the franchise was denied at registration time, has ended with the refusal of the county elections board to reopen the case. Consequently, a bitter fight for the Princeton mayoralty passed without the student electorate’s participation. And so far as the state of New Jersey is concerned, students of voting age have not the same privilege accorded the town half-wit.

Whether the politics of the mayoralty fight had anything to do with a desire to keep the students from voting, is not clear. Presumably, the opposing candidates stood with the collegians. But the election board decided that the residence requirement of five months had not been fulfilled, due to summer absences, and on this ground denied use of the ballot. The Princetonian carried on the fight, and produced a statement from President Hibben giving it as the University’s view that despite holidays, students are regarded as residents for a year at a time. The board remained unconvinced, and the students also. But the board had the final word.

Sophs Are Delayed in Forming Plans

Due to the change in chapel exercises during the fall revival services of the Y. M. C. A., the intended sophomore class meeting was postponed until later in the week instead of Monday morning as planned. The meeting will be one of the most important of the class for the entire fall, according to information given out by the president, Carl Pritchett.

Discussion is already under way concerning the action of the class in carrying on a junior or senior entertainment for the student body and the collection of funds to defray the expenses. This was begun by the class last year and is proving an efficient plan for meeting obligations in the last two years of college life. Also, the sophomores are beginning to plan for their traditional banquet. Committees will probably be appointed at the coming meeting to begin advance work upon the outstanding event of the second-year men. The affair will probably take place sometime after the first semester examinations and an early start on planning for it is being taken to ensure a successful affair, Pritchett said.

Cofty—“Do you think the eyes are an index to the mind?”
Goofty—“No. I know a lot of girls with bright eyes.”—Texas Ranger.

Davidson Delegates at Annual Sharon Meeting

Last Day of Religious Chautauqua Observed as College Day

On Sunday, November 20th, a delegation from Davidson College consisting of Dr. C. M. Richards, Dr. J. L. Douglass, and six students attended the annual Sharon chautauqua held at Sharon Presbyterian Church, near Charlotte. The students attending were: Howard Arbuckle, Alan Frew, Jeff Garrison, E. B. Peterson, C. H. Dubose, and C. B. Yancey.

A religious chautauqua, lasting an entire week, and consisting of programs of instructional and educational value, is held at Sharon Church each year by the pastor, Rev. C. H. Little. The last day of this year’s chautauqua was given over to Davidson College Day. Two services were carried out during the day by the Davidson delegation. At the morning service, Dr. C. M. Richards preached the sermon and a quartet consisting of Jeff Garrison, E. B. Peterson, C. H. Dubose, and C. B. Yancey gave special music. After a picnic lunch was served, the afternoon program was rendered. Dr. Richards presided and three Davidson boys made talks. Jeff Garrison spoke on the “Honor System” at Davidson, while Howard Arbuckle explained how the honor system is carried into athletics. Our religious life was pictured by Alan Frew. The quartet again gave special music. The Davidson delegation reports splendid hospitality at the hands of the Sharon congregation. Dr. Richards feels that the affection for Davidson in the minds of the Sharon people has been very much increased by the creditable program rendered.

The chautauqua continued from November 13th to November 20th. Although it was held primarily for the members of Sharon Church, the general public was invited to attend. The main purpose of the meeting was to bring to the entire congregation something of the subject matter brought out at the summer conferences. Several prominent men of Charlotte delivered addresses on various topics. One day was given over to the Greensboro College girls; the Glee Club, which gave a program at Davidson, furnished special music on one day of the chautauqua. The pastor of Sharon is a Davidson alumnus. The Sharon community has been the home of several prominent students of the college.

James J. Earnhardt, ’28, was married to Miss Elizabeth Robinson, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Wilson Robinson, of Charlotte, on Wednesday, October 10th, at the Sugaw Creek Presbyterian Church, with Rev. J. G. Garth officiating. Harold Burke, ’26, and James Trotter, ’25, were groomsmen, and George B. Sorrells, ’23, was best man. Mr. and Mrs. Earnhardt will make their home in Columbia, S. C., where Mr. Earnhardt is engaged in business.

Pat Crawford, ’23, was chosen as the most valuable player in the Sally League at the close of the past baseball season, and was awarded a gold watch by Greenville baseball fans as a token of their esteem at a banquet arranged in his honor. The title of the “Sally’s Most Valuable Player” was given to Crawford after he had been picked as such by a poll in which all the fans attending the final baseball game in Greenville voted, and after sports editors throughout the Sally League territory had awarded him the same title. Pat is now coaching football at Guilford, and will report to the New York Giants next spring.

On the other hand, the Wildcats have suffered defeats in their last three games, and have had quite a rest during the last few days. They also will be ready for a battle, andwill be putting out all they've got. The outcome of this game means quite a bit to the Wildcats. If they win, their standing in the Big Five will be considerably raised, while if they lose, they will undoubtedly go down into the cellar for the 1927 season. As has been said, we hesitate to make any predictions on the outcome of the game, but we will venture one statement: It’s going to be one of the best games played in these parts in quite a while, and our advice to those who are undecided as to what they want to see is to choose. It’s going to be an affair that will be truly worthy of “Turkey Day.”

“Y” Column
The missionary campaign that the Y will undertake this year will be a fund to be raised in support of the Banner Elk School. This school is under the direction of Edgar Tufts, an old Davidson man who graduated in ’22, and is located in the Blue Ridge mountains, near Boone, N.C. It consists of a hospital, an orphanage, a girls’ and a boys’ school, and has excellent equipment and a very strong faculty. It is doing a great work among the mountain people and enables many boys to get an education who otherwise would have no opportunity whatsoever to improve themselves. This is indeed a fine cause and deserves the hearty support of the Davidson Y student body. This campaign will be started sometime before Christmas, and definite news will be given soon.

The speaker at Y this Sunday will be Dr. John S. Foster, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem. Dr. Foster was formerly the pastor of the First Church of Birmingham and is the father of Johnnie, now in school with us. Dr. Foster has been heard before by Davidson men and is remembered by many as a very interesting speaker and an excellent preacher. He will bring a fine message, so let’s give him a good crowd. Let’s keep up the enthusiasm that we showed while Dr. Vander Meulen was here.

The Glee Club has already started preparing for the annual Christmas service that is under their direction. As in other years, this service will consist mainly of a musical program and will be conducted by the student body alone, no outside speaker being invited as for the other Y services.

The classes in public and personal presentation will be started soon, with Westbrook as leader, while the work as a whole will be supervised by John Foster, who is in charge of community work.

As the time for our annual day of Thanksgiving comes around, it seems that we are too easily forgetting the real and primary purpose of our recognizing this day, and we are devoting our time and attention too much to things that ought to be only secondary to the great reason for this holiday. A spirit of thankfulness ought to enter our lives if we only think for a moment of the great blessings that are continually ours, if we but consider the gifts of life, health, happiness, friends, and so many others that our Father has so freely and graciously given us, asking only that we take time to thank Him for them. Is it not little enough for us to show our gratitude for these great blessings by giving our most sincere thanks, especially on the day of Thanksgiving? Let’s keep ourselves in a thankful and grateful spirit and truly commemorate Thanksgiving as it should be celebrated.

Student Poetry is Honored by Prizes
New York, N.Y.—(By the New Student News Service).—Sterling North, of the University of Chicago, is the winner of the Witter Bynner poetry prize in the annual undergraduate contest. Grace Hazard Conkling, Edgar Lee Masters, and Witter Bynner judged the poetry of the students in all parts of the country. North won $100. Marion Staver, Barnard College, and Lucia E. Jordan, Smith College, each won $25 prizes. Honorable mention, in order of preference, was given to Rhea de Coudres, Brown University; Marshall Schacht, Dartmouth College; Walter Evans Kidd, University of Oregon; Margaret Hebard, Smith College; Karen Dillig, Carnegie Institute of Technology; John Bryon, University of Virginia; Ernest Erskilla, University of Montana; Gladys B. Merrified, University of California; M. Hazel Harris, University of Minnesota; and Donald Wandrei, University of Minnesota. Entries for the 1928 prize must be mailed by May 15, 1928. Only undergraduates may compete, and the poems submitted may be one or a group, but of not more than 200 lines.

Due to the large number of boys being away on account of the Davidson-Carolina football game last Saturday, there was no meeting of the Christian Endeavor Training class in deputation work. On November 6, deputation was led by Tom Preer at the Presbyterian Church of Concord, N.C., where an interesting program was rendered. The topic discussed in this meeting was “How Christian Endeavor Develops Self-Reliance.” Charles Orr, a member of this deputation, rendered a violin solo. The meeting was attended by a combination audience of two Christian Endeavor societies of Concord.

On Sunday, November 20, a deputation was sent to the First Presbyterian Church at Mooresville, where a program on “How Christian Endeavor Develops Initiative” was rendered. Other deputations have been arranged for Huntersville and Statesville, while there are many prospects of sending several others to nearby churches.

Richard Rowden, of Columbus University, claims to have the most novel way of earning one’s way through college. Rowden is the official worm supplier of the zoology department and sells the students angle worms at 20 cents a dozen. That’s one way of wiggling through college.—Citadel Bull Dog.

The University of Kansas is receiving a great deal of adverse criticism because its students maintain rigid restrictions to keep its colored students from entering extensively into the life of the University. The criticism comes from Mrs. Haldeman-Julius, wife of the Girard publisher, who says that she “found a bright side to the question, in that the administration of the university holds no brief against the colored student.” This lady is to be congratulated on finding a bright side to so dark a question.—Citadel Bull Dog.

She was only a taxi-driver’s daughter, but you ought to meter.—The Bulldog.

If in need of any Oxfords, Shoes, Shirts, Neckwear, Suits or a nice Top Coat, come in; we can supply your wants.
THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.
5th Door from Bank

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N.C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

HATS SWEATERS EVENING
Henderson’s
Nov. 25th and 26th.

TIES DRESS
Showing at
James S. Branch, Rep.
SUITS AND TOPCOATS
FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS AND MORE
TAILORED TO MEASURE
FIFTH AVENUE AT FORTY-SIXTH STREET

CAPS HOSIERY ACCESSORIES
Jewelry Store
Friday and Saturday