6. THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1927

Red Cross Drive Launched Here in National Campaign November 1st

The opening of the Red Cross Drive aims for five million members as its goal for 1928. The Red Cross Drive at Davidson College this year will be conducted mainly by the students. The plans of the Red Cross include appointing an outstanding member of the student body to serve as Roll Call Director in the college. This student will, in turn, appoint a committee from the different fraternity houses and dormitories to assist him with his work. The Red Cross will assist the College Roll Call by providing supplies and assistance to the college and will receive the membership returns, which will be handled in exactly the same way as all other roll call funds. Under this arrangement, the membership enrollment will be handled by a group of students working under the direction of a student Roll Call Director.

The American Red Cross has been a great aid in alleviating the suffering and distress caused by several recent disasters in the United States, notable examples being the Mississippi flood, the Florida hurricane, the St. Louis tornado, and the New England flood. Herbert Hoover, who was director of relief work in the Mississippi flood, says the following of the Red Cross work: "We, the American people, have created a great national organization that should be ever ready for great emergencies. The American Red Cross is that organization. And this, your organization, is doing its duty effectively and efficiently. It is your hand carrying out the will of your great heart. It asks that you enlarge your support so that it shall not fail."

Dr. R. C. Harding, who has supervised the campaigns in the local district for the past several years, in an interview early in the week declared that he anticipated a highly successful drive in Davidson and among the students. Plans for conducting the room-to-room canvass in the dormitories have been practically completed, and the entire membership enrollment will be handled by a group of students working under the direction of a student Roll Call Director.

Race Question is Under Discussion in University

Negroes Barred From Athletics at Kansas University

Lawrence, Kansas (By New Student Service)—Of approximately 4,500 students at the University of Kansas, 124 are Negroes. Yet the descendants of “Bleeding Kansas” maintain rigid restrictions to keep the few colored students from entering extensively into the life of the university. Race segregation at Kansas has been brought to light by Mrs. Marcet Haldeman-Julius, wife of the Girard publisher. The investigation grew out of an article in The Crisis, written by a former student at the university, charging discrimination against the Negro. A scathing editorial against such a situation followed in the Haldeman-Julius Weekly, with the result that Chancellor E. H. Lindley invited the editor to investigate the charges, which he thought overdrawn.

Mrs. Haldeman-Julius, while continuing her investigation in other Kansas colleges, professed to find at Kansas University essentially the situation described in the original complaint. She said that seemingly the administration holds no brief against the colored student. To this, though, there is one glaring exception: Negroes are not permitted to take their last two years in the university's medical department. No explanation of this ruling seems to have been made by the chancellor or anyone else. The most glaring discrimination was found in athletics.

She found a bright side, too. She said that the administration holds no brief against the colored student.

Literary Societies Elect New Officers

At the last meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society, two interesting open forum discussions were held. The first discussion was about the abolishment of capital punishment. The federal control of public education was the other topic discussed. After these discussions, an election of officers for the coming term was held. The new officers are as follows: President, F. D. Daniel; vice-president, T. E. Hill; secretary, E. E. Marsh; and critic, H. B. Arbuckle. At its next meeting, the society will have an installation of officers. This society has taken in ten Freshmen this year, each of whom seems to have an active interest in the work of the society, and since they have the ability to work, the future of the society looks bright.

The Phi Society had an important meeting recently, in which there was a new election of officers. TheOfficers are as follows: President, Ralph Glenn; Vice-President, J. P. McBryde; First Critic, F. A. Phillips; Second Critic, Frank Hall; Secretary, D. F. Gaffney; and the supervisors are Bill Ratchford and Randolph. There was no election for Treasurer, as this office was one filled for the entire year, the Treasurer being R. C. Grady.

Awarded the University Athletic Association, for its disbarment of Negroes from its activities. Defense is taken behind a Missouri Valley ruling, but Mrs. Halderman-Julius scoffs at the alibi, wondering why four schools should be permitted to dictate to six. She blames the athletic association for “doing more than any other one force to promote race prejudice with all the ugly consequences that invariably go with it.”

“Quips and Cranks” Will Be Issued First Week in December to Take Remaining Photographs

The 1928 edition of the “Quips and Cranks” will be issued on or about the first of May. Various men of the student body have been doing work on this student publication since the beginning of the college year. The leaders of the publication are striving to get all items and features in hand before December 1st, but a few phases of student activities, such as baseball and track, will necessarily be omitted until later in the year. Witt Hancock, editor-in-chief, announces that the various departments of the work are progressing rapidly and efficiently. The new art work has been begun and gives promise of being among the best in the history of the college. Of course, plans for this work will not be revealed until publication.

About four-fifths of the students in the four respective classes have had their photographs made. The photographer will return at an early date after the spring holidays, at which time the remaining fraction of the four classes will have another chance to have their individual pictures taken. The proofs for photographs taken several weeks ago will come back early in December. The week ending Saturday, November 12th, will be the last chance for Seniors to hand in their write-ups and honors.

The business manager, Carter Rowe, reports that his department of the work is well under way. He is in receipt of advertisements from several business firms of the larger cities in the state. The yearly budget, having been planned for some time, is working out smoothly. The three main sources for annual finances are: Advertisements, a portion of the campus tax, and charges for space given to individuals and to organizations.

The announcement has been made of the 1927 edition of “Quips and Cranks” being awarded first prize among all annuals edited by schools of less than 1,000 enrollment.

“You can’t get naughty magazines in some towns I know of.”
“Won't let ’em sell ’em, eh?”
“No, they’re sold out!”—Goblin.

Among surnames in England the commonest are Smith, Jones, Brown, Taylor, Davies, Wilson, Walker, and Morris.

Men may ride on Texas trains in their stockinged feet with the full sanction of the railroad commission of that state. The decision comes as a result of a petition from a woman who demanded that men be prohibited from removing their shoes, boots, or sandals while riding on trains.

The first municipal public conveyance was used in Nantes, France, in 1825. A few years later the omnibus was introduced into London.

“Does his mind ever wander?”
“Well, not aimlessly. It always goes directly down.”—U. of C. Calif. Wampus.

Footwear for Davidsonians
We Want to Meet the New Men And Renew Acquaintances With the Old! Visit Us
Gilmer-Moore Co. at Charlotte
SHOES LUGGAGE

New Victor Records
TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE! We have at all times a complete stock of Brunswick Panatropes. New Records Every Friday. A Complete Line of RCA Radios from $69.50 to $895. Orthophonic Victrolas and Brunswick Records.

Smokers don’t change with the seasons... but watch how other smokers are changing to Chesterfield!

FOR THE BEST ... but watch how other smokers are changing to Chesterfield!

It is found, however, where “the line between administrative and student control becomes indeterminate.” The cafeteria is frequented by about 25 Negroes and about 400 whites, yet the Negroes are segregated. The bouquet for most obvious and unfair prejudice was Maxwell Chambers Hotel “The best board on the Hill.” A trial is all we ask. Student manager.