6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 24, 1927

Sophs Elect Historian and Hear Report of Treasurer

Y Deputations Hold Services on Sunday

Monday morning at a meeting of the sophomore class in Shearer Hall, several business matters were brought up for approval
and after a short discussion, they were adopted. The first thing to come before the class was consideration of the
ways and means for raising the funds to pay for the senior class gift. It was pointed out that by
assessing each member of the class one dollar, any assessment that would have to be made in the senior year
would be greatly reduced. The treasurer reported that there was about one hundred and forty dollars in the treasury and
that the remainder of the assessment of one dollar made last year on the class would be collected. The new
assessment will not be collected until after Christmas.

Ed Close pointed out that the cheering and support of the sophomore class had been rather disconnected and made a
motion that all the class meet at the stadium at five o'clock every afternoon until Thursday, for a fifteen-minute pep
meeting and that during the game the class endeavor to sit together in a body. The motion was seconded and
after discussion by several members of the class, the question was called for and passed by a large majority.

The last thing to come before the class was the election of the class historian. The nominating committee appointed by
the president of the class nominated three men for this office: Charlie Pratt, Bob Jarratt, and Alex Edelman. The last
named was elected. The committee is composed of Joe Gardner, chairman, Hugh White, and Bob Erckman.

On Sunday, November 20, a “Y” deputation was sent to Sharon Presbyterian Church, near Charlotte, where an interesting meeting was
held. Sunday was the last day of a religious chautauqua, which lasted for a week, and was designated as “Davidson
College Day.” The deputation was accompanied by Dr. J. L. Douglass. The quartet of “Y” singers composed of Jeff Garrison,
E. B. Peterson, Charlie Yancey, and Clyde H. Dubose, sang during the morning service. Dr. Howard Arbuckle, pastor of the
church, preached a very interesting sermon in the morning. The afternoon meeting was conducted by Jeff Garrison and Alan Frew,
and was largely attended. Dinner was served on the grounds.

Another quartet of “Y” singers left Davidson at 3:30 in the afternoon to conduct a service at Thyatira Church, about
ninety miles from Salisbury. This deputation was composed of John Bradley, Bob Kirkpatrick, H. B. Mayo, and Everett Moye. Kirkpatrick
being the only official “Y” singer. A very good service was held for the young people’s league of the church.
An inspiring talk on the “Importance of Young People’s Work” was given by Everett Moye at this meeting. The “Y”
has been planning to send a deputation every Sunday and is arranging some interesting programs.

Proofs for Annual Pictures Given for Student’s Selection

The task of taking the photographs for the Davidson annual, Quips and Cranks, has, in a large measure, been completed
and most of the proofs have been decided upon and are now in the hands of the White Studios, to
which this work has been entrusted.has been entrusted. Almost four hundred photographs of the members of the student body have
been made and of these only a few yet remain to be selected and returned to Miss Rausberg, who has
been sent by the White Studios to manage this division of the work.

According to Bob Platt, photographic editor, and those who have seen the group pictures, they are an improvement over those
of last year in many respects. Those of the R.O.T.C. battalion, with perhaps the exception of the post for calisthenics,
which seems to have been taken at too great an angle, are much more distinct and give an excellent idea
of the company formations. The photographer will return sometime during the next semester to take the pictures of the track,
baseball, and other teams, which, of course, could not be made at this time, and also some group pictures of
various student organizations. The individual pictures of the football men as well as that of the glee club, taken as
a group, have been received and can be obtained from Bob Platt.

THREE-FOLD (Continued from page one)

are: anger, prejudice, and self-interest. The poison of anger deadens our reasoning powers and weakens the value of our conclusions.
Therefore, we must wait till our anger cools before we can rightly consider a question. Prejudice blinds us because a
predetermined mind cannot judge fairly. In order to overcome prejudices, it is our duty to rise above them. Self-interest, perhaps
more than anything else, sidetracks honest thinking, and the only way to overcome this is to make a real effort
to be unselfish.

Rising in importance above the duty of being honest to ourselves and others is the great necessity of being honest
with our God. There are some of us who are scrupulously honest with ourselves and others, but because we have
not dedicated our talents to His use, are not honest with God. We have no right to use selfishly endowments
that God, the giver of all things, has bestowed upon us, and in simple honesty, we cannot fail to dedicate
our lives to Him in whatever work we do.

Before Dr. Walker’s speech, Dr. William Hollister, a Davidson alumnus who has been in medical work in Washington, made a
short talk on the importance of deciding on one’s life work on the basis of “Would God have me do
it?” Dr. Hollister himself has given over his life to medical missionary work in Korea, for which country he will
soon sail.

BLUE DEVILS MEET CATS (Continued from page 1)

tice for the past few days, but hopes to be ready for the game with Duke. McColgan, guard, has a
dangerously weak knee that forces him to go easy with his training. After a rest of ten days, the squad
should be in better condition than at any time for the past few games. No news has been broadcast from
the Blue Devils’ camp since their encounter with the Tar Heels, but it is believed that they will be in
good shape for the Thanksgiving game. The Duke team that lost to the Wildcats last season by a 20-0 margin
has been boosted by many new faces, Bennett and Jones being the only regulars from last year’s team who have
a berth on the present organization. Jankoski, line plunger supreme, is considered one of the best gridders in the state,
and the Buie-Adams passing combination has attracted much attention from the followers of the game. Hunter has been playing a
consistent game at center during the present season. After the game last weekend, the odds have returned to a more
even balance after Duke had been picked an easy winner over the Wildcats. The Davidson team will be fighting one
of their greatest battles and on Richardson Field, where they are known to fight so hard. This will be one
of the hardest games of the season and football enthusiasts will see a good game as a season’s finale. The
probable line-up follows:

Davidson. Position. Duke
Arrowood LE Warren
Lawsireco LT Lee
Thompson LG Jones
McConnell, R. Center Hunter
Grey, J. RG Thorne
McConnell, T. RT Culp
McGeachy RE Bennett (C)
MAC QB Buie
Grey, R. (C) LH Lake
Harrison RH Adams
Nesbit FB Jankoski

Seats on the New York stock exchange are selling for upward of a quarter of a million dollars. This news
probably will break Tex Rickard’s heart. — Seattle Times.
