THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 20, 1927

Four Big Pictures to be Shown Soon

Again, the “Y” has booked some of the best pictures of the year for showing at the college. On the
22nd, this coming Saturday, “A Little Journey” will be here. The next Saturday “The Scarlet Letter” will be shown. On
the following Saturdays will be shown two of the best films that could be booked, namely, “The Winning of Barbara
Worth” and “Tell It To the Marines.”

“A Little Journey,” with Wm. Haines and Claire Windsor, is a very good comedy about a boy and a girl
and their love making on a trans-continental trip. “The Scarlet Letter,” with Lillian Gish in the lead, is one of
the year’s biggest pictures. It was taken from Nathaniel Hawthorne's great novel of the same name and has all the
drama, beauty, and tenderness of the book. In it Lillian Gish achieves her greatest emotional triumph. Victor Seastrom, the director,
has made a film masterpiece, a picture worthy in every sense of the beautiful Lillian Gish. She is ably supported
by Lars Hanson, Henry B. Walthall, and Karl Dane.

Ronald Coleman and Vilma Blanky, in “The Winning of Barbara Worth,” present a great drama taken from the book by
Harold Bell Wright. “Tell It To the Marines,” with Lon Chaney, William Haines, and Eleanor Boardman, is a fine comedy.
In this comedy, Miss Boardman surpasses her fine work in “Bardeleys the Magnificent.”

The “Y” now has a contract with the Davidson Orchestra to play at every show.

Dramatic Club Broadens Plans for Future Work

To Make Trips to Neighboring Cities Soon

Although the Dramatic Club has no definite plans in mind yet, several things are being thought about. Plans for a
program to be given here later, the returns of which are to be split with the “Y,” are being worked
out. The club intends to take a trip later, and to give programs in several nearby cities. A performance will
in all probability be given in Gastonia first, and if the trip works out well, Lynchburg and several other cities
will be visited.

In the past, the Dramatic Club has not functioned very well, or rather it has not functioned very extensively, giving
programs only here on the campus. If present plans are worked out, however, the club will broaden its field of
work and will make several trips to various parts of the state and to neighboring states. This will fill a
great vacancy on the Davidson campus. The need for an organization of this kind has been felt and has been
spoken of by various persons on the campus. If the plans which are being put into effect this year work
out well, the club will be able to expand still more next year, and in a few years the Dramatic
Club will take its place as one of the leading organizations on the campus. There is plenty of talent among
the students, and there will be little trouble in getting a lively interest worked up.

Annual Fresh Declaiming Medal is Won by White

Defeat McGuire and Neel in Finals of Contest

The annual Freshman Declamation contest was won by H. W. White, Thursday night at Phi Hall, before a joint meeting
of the three literary societies. Before Christmas, trials were held in each of the societies to determine the best declaimers.

The Norris Trophy

Here is the Norris trophy of 1925 won by Flake Laird, stellar athlete, who graduated last year. It is the
gift of the Norris Candy Company, of Atlanta, Ga. The cup for this year is on display now.

I.R.C. Donates New Books to Library

The International Relations Club, wishing to promote interest on the campus in international affairs, has recently donated to the library
a number of valuable books treating of the economic and political aspects of various problems facing the world today.

Imperialism and World Politics, by Dr. Parker Thomas Moon, is a comprehensive survey of the causes, the motives, and effects
of contemporary imperialism. The Nation, Mexican by Dr. Herbert Priestly, is a delightfully written history of the development of a
national spirit among our Latin neighbors. The World Court, by Antonio S. de Bustamante, is the first complete story of
the World Court to appear in the English language. In International Relations As Viewed From Geneva, Mr. William E. Rappard,
member of the Permanent Mandates Commission of the League of Nations, gives us the inside dope on the League in
a most interesting manner. The report of the Proceedings of the Academy of Political Science (at its meeting in July,
1926), contains discussions of some of the most interesting subjects of current interest. Besides these, there are a number of
World Peace Foundation pamphlets containing material which should prove valuable in collegiate debates. These books were selected and sent to
the local chapter by national headquarters of the Association of International Relations Clubs.

“Y” Plans Checker Contest This Week

Announcement has been made recently by the Y. M. C. A. here that because of the widespread interest in checker
playing, this sport will receive the attention henceforth that it deserves. New boards and men will be provided and a
grand tournament will be held to select the best players of the campus and to give them the praise and
adulation that they, as well as football players, deserve. All names must be in as soon as possible.

Will Rogers Gives Humorous Lecture

Will Rogers, perhaps the foremost humorist of America today, was the attraction at the Auditorium in Charlotte last night, where
his wit and common sense dealings with current topics were pleasingly presented to one of the most enthusiastic and appreciative
audiences the Queen City has ever turned out. True to his style, he never let a dull minute spoil his
evening’s presentation.

Rogers was raised in Oklahoma, leading the life of a cowboy for many years until his entrance into theatricals some
15 years ago. It may be of interest to know that he was a cadet in his boyhood days in
one of the leading military academies of the southwest. His first start as an actor, which led him soon to
stardom, was with the Ziegfeld Follies of New York City, in which he was a drawing card for several years.
Leaving that, he was in vaudeville with the famous Dollies Sisters, and also with road shows of his own. Of
recent years, he has starred in motion pictures which have justly increased his claim to fame as a portrayer of
the old cowboy of the west and other characterizations. At present, he is occupied with platform lectures of a humorous
nature, delivering off-hand masterpieces of an art he has made popular throughout the country. Will even dabs in politics, for
a few weeks ago he was made Mayor of Berkeley Hills, California, the city he now calls home. His chief
claim to prominence now rests in his lectures and, to a greater degree, to his contributions to different publications. Possibly
his most read wit is found in “Letters of a Self-made Diplomat to the President,” published continually in the Saturday
Evening Post.

Current Events

Hoover to Speak at Goldsboro Commerce

Herbert Hoover has accepted an invitation of the Goldsboro Chamber of Commerce to speak at their annual banquet, which is
to be held during the latter part of March. The Goldsboro Chamber of Commerce feels very fortunate in having Mr.
Hoover address them as he is regarded as one of the strongest men of the administration and is much sought
after as a speaker.

Leopold and Loeb Have Hopes of Freedom

Richard Loeb and Nathan Leopold, Jr., slayers of Bobbie Frank, still have hopes of being released from their life imprisonment
sentence within the next ten years. The boys haven't any particular plan on which to found their hopes of freedom
but Leopold hopes that public sentiment will have subsided in about ten years and then they hope to obtain their
freedom.

President Diaz, of Nicaragua, Offers Peace Proposal

Adolph Diaz, President of Nicaragua, plans the restoration of peace in his country based upon a plan that a conference
be held under the auspices of the American government and new elections be held in 1928. Under this plan, Diaz
would finish his term of office, which still has two years to run. Diaz's peace proposal calls for a truce
of passionate utterances.and legal arguments. It demands a statesmanlike effort by both parties to reach an agreement on the basis
of clear appreciation of the material factors of the situation. Will is also the author of several different books of
humor. Will Rogers is indeed America’s foremost humorist of the present day.

The decision of President Coolidge’s government,” said Diaz, “will spare Nicaragua the horrors of bolshevism, lawlessness, religious persecution, and general
retrogression.”

Queens College Celebrates 155th Anniversary (Continued from page 1)

Queens College students and alumnae celebrated their 155th anniversary Saturday, January 15th. Impressive exercises were held throughout the day, among
the noted speakers being Dr. J. M. McConnell, professor of history of Davidson College, who spoke on the origin and
history of Queens College.

George Young, 17, of Toronto, Canada, recently won the Catalina Channel Derby by out-swimming 95 others, to ever swim the
San Pedro channel, which separates Catalina Island from the mainland of California. The time for his swim is 15 hours,
47 minutes, for a total distance of 22 miles.

Proof Knit Coats. A splendid selection in these fine Heidelberg - Wolfe Weather Proof Coats. Smart, imported fabrics, well tailored
along 1926 lines. For rough weather wear, they are $30.00.

First as Stork State

According to a report issued by the Census Bureau, North Carolina continues to have the highest birth rate. In 1924,
as in 1920, North Carolina has the highest birth rate, 32.2 and 31.6 respectively, per thousand. The rural districts exceed
the cities by a small fraction.

Scopes to Appeal for Rehearing

Thomas H. Malone and Henry F. Colton, attorneys of John T. Scopes, who was convicted of teaching evolution, have announced
that they are going to file a motion for rehearing at once and that another movement was under way to
repeal the famous statute. This petition will point out that the court handed out three opinions, each being contradictory in
their interpretation of the law, and that due to this other instructors might be drawn into court and given unnecessary
notoriety.

PERSONALS

Rev. F. M. Bain, ‘16, has moved from Bunnlevel, N. C. to Hope Mills, N. C.
Rev. F. V. Long, ‘21, is now at Shreveport, La., 112 Wilkinson St.
C. K. Marshall, '26, formerly at Gastonia is now night editor of the Associated Press at Raleigh.
Rev. John R. Hay, ‘10, pastor of Clover, S.C., has accepted the call of the Church at Hickory, N. C.
I. Wildman, ‘23, is this year in Baltimore, Md., at 198 Cedar Ave., Rowland Park.
Rev. Carl B. Craig, ‘11, was presented with a beautiful white gold Waltham watch as a Christmas present by the
men of his Church at Laurinburg, N. C., as a token of their love and esteem.
R. M. McGirt, '23, has his address at Wilson, N. C., Box 402.

Changes of Address

Rev. C. G. Clory, '16, from Murphy, N.C. to Smyrna, Ga.
Rev. W. A. Murray, ‘96, from Lenoir to Black Mountain, N.C.
Rev. L. H. Eikel, ‘17, from Laurel, Md., to Collierstown, Va.
Rev. W. H. Hamilton, ‘07, from Clio to Greer, S.C.
Rev. J. A. McMurray, ‘09, from Mt. Pleasant to Quanah, Texas.
Rev. B. F. Yandell, ‘05, from Hazlewood to Charlotte, N.C.
Rev. E. C. Murray, from Pancinga to Tixtla, Guerrero, Mex.
A. C. Lingly is now with the American Tobacco Company, in Smyrna, Turkey.
F. Brevard McDowell, Jr., ‘14, from Chilhowie, Va., to Charlotte, N.C.

The lecture was closed with the reading of several of his fine poems amid deafening applause.

DAVIDSON PROFESSORS (Continued from page 1)

Other members of the faculty have conducted similar tours in the past, especially Professor Currie with Babcock Tour last year.
Professor Goldiere has taken private groups of students to Europe once or twice, as have other members of the faculty.
Of these, Dr. T. W. Lingle holds the palm, as he has taken students to Europe 16 or 17 times
in years past. It is understood, however, that he is not planning to go this year.

The Peking Gazette has been published without intermission for 1,400 years.

At Efird’s!

One big special group for College Men, $30.00. MEN'S SECTION STREET FLOOR

Exclusive Agents in Charlotte for “Fashion Park” Suits
