THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1927

CAMPUS SHEIKS SEEK
(Continued from page 1)

for the time and place for the tests to be made on the campus of such colleges as show an interest in the movement. It is said that Lloyd Hughes, Larry Kent, Jack Mulhall, Richard Barthelmess, Donald Reed, and other equally famous screen luminaries are former collegians. Ben Turpin and Larry Semon, according to rumors, are former students in the great old School of Experience—while Rudolf Valentino, the man who was but ain’t no more, is now a pupil at the great university, where students can’t commit suicide.

All of which brings us to the point that we started out to make, viz, The Davidsonian is going to conduct a Movie Contest on the local campus, the winner of which is to be given a try at the Hollywood trip, provided the technical directors can be prevailed upon to give him the “acid test.” The contest will open at dawn, Saturday, March 26th, and will continue through sundown Monday, March 29th. Votes will cost a penny each, said funds to be used in defraying the costs of the contest. Ballots will close promptly at sundown, and the winner of the local contest will be announced in an early issue of The Davidsonian. Rally 'round your favorites, fellows. Help them win a place on the silver screen. All students are eligible. There are no rules. The ballot-box can be stuffed as often and as much as one desires, and when it is closed or the votes cast, some handsome son of Jaybirdsville will rise to sudden fame. Life-sized portraits of the contest winners in characteristic poses will appear in The Davidsonian. Watch for a future announcement in chapel.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, DAVIDSON, N.C.

THEATRE MOORESVILLE, N.C.
WEEK OF MAR. 28-APR. 2

Monday, Mar. 28. Love Makes 'Em Wild. A Fox production.
Tuesday, Mar. 29. The Temptress. A Metro-Goldwyn picture.
Wednesday, Mar. 30. God Gave Me 20 Cents. A Paramount picture.
Friday, Apr. 1. Perch of the Devil with Pat O’Malley.
Saturday, Apr. 2. Somewhere in Senora, with Ken Maynard.

Town News

Game With Catawba
Captain Woodham Leads Teammates in First Game of Season and Wins by 7-3 Score

The Booklovers’ Club was entertained at the home of Mrs. Richards last week. Mrs. Hamilton, who was in charge of the program, introduced Rev. and Mrs. Deans to the Club, and they in turn presented a program of music and readings.

Scottish Coach Monk Younger seemed well pleased with his 1927 baseball prospects after their recent victory over Catawba College in a short practice tilt. Captain Woodham led the Wildcat hitters through five innings to win by a score of 7 to 3. The whole Davidson team showed up especially well for so early in the season. Cathey started on the rubber and pitched fine ball for two innings. He was relieved by Wells, and he, in turn, gave way to Meadows. Meadows pitched the last three innings of the game and showed fine form. Judging from the showing made, the ‘Cats will have no trouble with the pitching staff this year. Woodham led at the bat. Woodham, who was at-bat only three times, scored three of the team’s runs. Out of his three times at the plate, he got a home run and a clean three-base hit. Ratchford was safe twice out of as many attempts. Ratchford and Black each connected with one. Both teams made a number of errors, but at this time of year, they are excusable. Six errors were chalked up against Davidson for the five innings. Coach Younger sent in several substitutes in order to get a line on all his men. Joe McConnell relieved Davis in left field; Dulin, MacAulie, and Harrison divided the duties in the hot corner. Grey came in as a pinch hitter for Meadows. The line-up for Davidson was as follows: Woodham, 1st; Davis, rf; Ratchford, lf; Johnson, cf; Black, c; Dulin, 3rd; Kugler, ss; Glenn, 2nd; Cathey, p; Wells, p; Meadows, p. Grey hit for Meadows; McConnell substituted for Davis, MacAulie for Dulin, Harrison for MacAulie.

Mrs. Hunter is convalescing in Dr. Long's Sanatorium, in Statesville, after undergoing an operation for appendicitis. Hunter's condition is good and she will probably be allowed to return home soon.

Miss Mary Black has returned home from Charlotte on recovering from a nose operation performed in that city.

Mrs. Yoder, Mrs. Warner, Mrs. Hall, and Mrs. Gamble, of Hickory, N.C., were guests of Mrs. Lingle last Thursday evening. The guests were attending the last meeting of the Woman's Auxiliary of this year.

The club women are interested in the announcement of the coming of Mr. Garland, who will lecture Thursday evening, March 31st, in Shearer Hall, on the subject, “Memories of the Middle Border.” It was the book bearing this title that first brought Mr. Garland into prominence as a writer.

Mrs. Martin has returned after spending a few weeks with her daughter, Mrs. Currie, at Paducah, Ky. She stopped over, on her return, at Lexington, Ky., to visit her daughter, Miss Jean Martin, who is attending the University of Kentucky.

The Men of the Presbyterian Church held their annual banquet last Monday night at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. At that time, the officers for the ensuing year were elected. The Presbyterian Church has unanimously extended a call to Rev. Harry Moffett, of Birmingham, Ala., to serve as local pastor.

Miss Martha Hamilton spent the weekend in Greensboro with friends.

Members of the Home Economics Department left on Thursday to attend a two-day session of the State Educational Association. The meetings were held at Raleigh.

Dr. Lingle and Mr. Hamilton attended the installation services at Shearer Chapel last Sunday. Rev. Deans, a resident of Mooresville, and a native of Scotland, will assume the duties of pastor. Dr. Lingle preached and Dr. White, of Mooresville, delivered the charge to the people.

BOYCE MARTIN CHOSEN
(Continued from page 1)

members of the Reporters’ Club,his excellent Converse—“Oh! I had the most wonderful date last night. My Wofford said that he’d love me forever and ever!” Queens—“Ah, men!”

work winning him the Golden Quill. He is vice-president of the Junior class, secretary of the Y. M. C. A., member of the Student Council, and a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He belongs to a number of honorary fraternities. Both of the defeated candidates have likewise distinguished themselves in journalistic and literary work at Davidson. W. L. Lingle is just completing one of the most successful terms as managing editor of The Davidsonian in the history of the publication. He was one of the leading reporters on the staff of the paper during his first two years, and like Martin, is a wearer of the coveted Golden Quill. He has served as an assistant manager of football, and as a member of the present staff of Sanity Rare, and the Junior Speaking Program Committee. He is a member of Delta Pi Kappa journalistic fraternity, Sigma Pi Sigma honorary physics fraternity, and the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Caldwell Withers is at present sporting editor of The Davidsonian, editor-in-chief of Sanity Rare, and a member of the Court of Control. He attained a position on the staff after two years of meritorious service as a Davidsonian reporter, and following his selection to wear the Golden Quill. He is a member of Delta Pi Kappa honorary journalistic fraternity, and of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

Davidsonian Reporters

The speaker at the staff meeting of The Davidsonian last Monday night was Mr. J. P. Williams, professor of Accounting and Dean of Freshmen here. While a student at Davidson, he was editor of The Davidsonian. Mr. Williams spoke on the history and purposes of The Davidsonian. The Davidsonian was founded in the spring of 1914, and met with serious opposition on the campus by the members of the Magazine staff, who believed that it would cut down on their circulation. The purposes of the paper were, first, to give the campus news, and second, to give the town news. Mr. Williams complimented the staff on their splendid work during the past year and stated that The Davidsonian had marked a new step, in the fact that it stuck to two mottos: the first, to have as much fun as possible without malice, and second, to give all the news it could get without prejudice. He pointed out several instances of former Davidson men who were succeeding in newspaper work due largely to the training and experience they received while working on The Davidsonian.

CHARLES McRAE WINS (Continued from page 1)

Mour and Hill, resulted in the latter's election, for the other vice-presidency. Two vice-presidents were chosen and no secretary, which latter office, together with the office of one vice-president and the presidency constituted the plan of former years. This change in offices has been deemed advisable by the Board of Control for proper reasons and will undoubtedly prove a success. McRae, of the rising Senior class, is from Maxton, N. C., and one of the leading men on the campus. He is particularly interested and active in the religious life of the student body, being a member of the deputation teams, and holding office in the Ministerial Band. He is also past vice-president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and related in many other ways to campus activities. Dick Flynn and Bill Hill are members of the rising Junior Class, and are from Atlanta, Ga. and Richmond, Va., respectively. Both of these men are actively identified with the religious side of Davidson, being on deputation teams, but are also connected with other forms of campus life. Flynn holds the office of treasurer of the Eumenean Literary Society, is a member of the Glee Club, the track and boxing squads and holds the office of secretary and treasurer of the Student Body for this year. He is affiliated with the Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Hill, besides holding offices in both the Ministerial Band and Christian Endeavor Training Class, is an outstanding member of the Pandemian Society.

WHEN A FRESHMAN NEEDS A FRIEND (Continued from page 4)

Committee, the sophomores turn his coat inside out, fasten his garters around his neck, roll up his trousers, and make him tramp upon the only thing that has made life worth living up to this moment, his “pot.” No wonder the percentage chart on homesickness is top heavy. Dr. Little was a first-year man upon the campus last year, and he felt a bond of sympathy for the youth who comes from a small school to a vast university. That student cannot enter into the spirit of the university and absorb knowledge requiring the undivided attention of a mind free from the realization of the president. With this in mind he then determined that somewhere in the factory routine of enrollment there should be an element of human feeling. —The Michigan Alumnus.

Wildcats are Victorious

Mr. Williams Addresses

Hamlin Garland to Lecture Here Soon

Hamlin Garland, novelist and dramatist of international fame, will visit Davidson on Thursday, March 31st, to address the students on “Memories of the Middle Border.” He will appear at Shearer Hall at 7:30 o'clock, and the nature of his talk will be chapters from his autobiography. He comes here under the auspices of the college. In addition to this public address, he is expected to speak informally at Davidson on the afternoon of the same date, dealing with reminiscences of English authors. He states in a letter to authorities here that he will discuss Shaw, Barry, Kipling, and others with whom he is intimately related.

Mr. Garland is the author of many books, some of them being: Main Traveled Roads, Prairie Folks, A Member of the Third House, Crumbling Idols, Wayside Courtships, Ulysses Grant, Prairie Songs, Her Mountain Lover, Boys’ Life on the Prairie, Jason Edwards, A Son of the Middle Border, The Book of the American Indian, The Trail Makers, A Daughter of the Middle Border, and others.

A New One

Another poor Scotchman’s name was added to that long list of unfortunates who have joined the happy throng in the land that’s free from financial worries. This one died of ptomaine poisoning. After reading an advertisement for Lux, stating its excellent qualities as a non-shrinker, he went home and fried his bacon in it to keep it from shrinking.

Rev. S. T. McCloy, ’18, is doing graduate work at the Union Theological Seminary in New York, his address being 507 W. 121st St.

Apologies to Tennyson

In the spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to—what the girls have been thinking about all winter.

In Playhouse Theatre Statesville, N. C. Most Perfect Theatre in the Carolinas EVERY SATURDAY SHOWS—3 3:00, 5:30 and 8:00 VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY AND PICTURE SHOW PROGRAM Happy to Entertain You

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU

Austin Candy Shop Statesville, N. C.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.