THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 15, 1927 -- Sport Talk -:- News and Views of Wildcat Events By Raymond Lake

Athletic Editor's Note: In changing from the head used for this column during the past year to the above head, the Athletic Editor has attempted to make a forward step and to better in a small way the appearance and quality of the Sport Page and of this column. The new head was modeled after a similar head appearing in one of the leading Southern newspapers, and, we hope, will meet with the approval of the readers of this column.

Once again the Wildcats are back in harness, training and grinding, preparing to continue the fight for the honor and glory of Old Davidson, the honor which has been, and is ours, and which we hope to recapture during the present season, and the glory which has been and ever will be ours in victory or defeat. As usual, at the first of the season, there are quite a few on the campus and elsewhere who are blue over the prospects for the team. But why be despondent? We've got the two best coaches in the state, and two of the best in the South, for that matter. We've got the best spirit in the state. We've got seven of last year’s letter men back and others to take the places of those who are not back. We've got several good men from last year’s freshman team who are able to handle a place on the varsity eleven, so again we ask, Why be despondent?

Mentors of Big Five Are Jubilant Over Prospects
Carolina Has Prospects for Unusually Strong Team

With the football season close at hand and heavy training already under way, the eyes of fans are being turned on those five teams which have been in the past, and will be for some time to come, the most outstanding in this state. Conference and intersectional games have their importance and involve, as a matter of course, local pride and spirit, but for Davidson and the major part of North Carolina the state championship race offers the most interest and color. Contrary to precedent, most of the reports coming from the various camps are optimistic. According to Mr. Jake Wade, the Charlotte Observer authority, and also according to about 99 per cent of fandom, Carolina is to be the big noise this year. In fact, Carolina is scheduled to make such a tremendous disturbance that it seems at first glance as though the biggest fight will be for second place. However, it’s an uncertain as well as a grand old game, and advance dope indicates a whole stable full of dark horses that may be prominent in the running.

The spirit that wins is not the spirit that is overcome by despondency. The spirit that wins is the spirit that fights, and fights till the last whistle has blown, the Wildcat spirit! The showing at the first pep meeting of the year was good. The cheering was good, and the cheer leader and his assistants proved themselves able to lead us on to victory. Let's get started right and back that team on through to the finish! The team can’t quit till it’s all over, and if we quit or slow down a little bit just because the outlook is not quite what it might possibly be, we’re not doing our duty and are not holding up our end of the load.

Several shifts have been made in the lineup during the first few days of practice. “Red” Grey has been shifted to center and seems to be filling the position in great style. “Piggy” Wearn, on right end, though small in stature, is surely not small in fight and pep. The gains around his end will be few and far between. The tackles are being held down by Leftwich, McConnell and Baker. A rumor to the effect that two men will be used at center, one for offensive and one for defensive work, is current on the campus. “Monk” and “Tex” do not run their team according to rumors, however, and only time will tell whether or not there is any truth in the statement.

The freshmen have been out only a few days and at this time it would be hard to make an estimate of their possibilities. A goodly number of would-be players have turned out every afternoon, however, and if numbers mean anything, we have nothing to fear from those quarters. While there are no unusually large candidates out, the group taken as a whole would stand with or above the average.

It is not so very unusual for a good man to decide not to come back to Davidson for one reason or another, but when John Currie decided not to come back, Davidson suffered an unusually heavy loss. Not knowing the reasons for Currie’s decision, we have no right to complain. Let it suffice to say that we are sorry he is not back and hope that by some chance he may decide to return before the track season opens. During the summer he broke one more old record and set one more new record for himself, thus adding another to his list of accomplishments.

Another rumor on the campus to the effect that the track team will hold a fall practice, or workout, a little later in the year, has come to our attention. The members of the track team might not greet this with any great degree of enthusiasm, but it looks like a good idea. It would give the runners more chance to develop and at the same time would not cause them to grow stale, the intermission between the fall and spring workouts allowing them time to rest up and hit the trail hard in the spring.

Moth made from bamboo fiber is being used. Bamboo fiber, it is said, can be as pliable as flax. Let's fight ’em, Wildcats!

There is good reason for Carolina’s high hopes. She has good coaches, plenty of material and a brand new stadium. Just how far they will get with this combination remains to be seen, but they have nearly all of last year’s regulars back, with about three equally good men pushing each for his position. The stadium will bring more pep, more spirit. The coaching staff will be more settled than last year.

Duke reports cheerfully lay claim to the best team to represent that institution. Duke, also, will profit by last year’s experience with a new set of coaches. Over at State there are dark rumors to the effect that the Wolfpack which finished the past season in such a whirlwind fashion, will be the bunch to watch this year. It is probably Coach Tebell’s last chance to produce a winner, and as nobody is foolish enough to underrate Tebell’s ability, it looks as though there would be a genuine return to form on the part of the Pack. Many veterans are back, and here, too, there will be several fine youngsters among the Sophs. Wake Forest is building its hopes around the powerful teams of the state.

Eight Former Letter Men Report for Duty
HARRISON SHOWS FORM
Coaches Monk and Tex Working Hard to Mold Winning Team From Material Captain Grey

The 1926 football champions of North Carolina are now preparing for another season. Though there were only eight varsity letter men who turned out for football this fall, the prospects do not look quite as gloomy as some would make the uninformed believe. At the first real scrimmage on Saturday, September 9th, the team showed up fine. Harrison, one of the Wildcat’s swiftest backs, has improved greatly since spring practice and the showing he has made so far has been showing mid-season form. Speed, however, is not the only strong feature.

Wildcat Gridders Return to Uphold Honor of Alma Mater Under Capt. Grey’s Rule
Fresh Candidates Begin Work in Large Number

A poll of the 55 or more candidates reporting for freshman football practice at Davidson College reveals the fact that of this number only 34 have had any previous football experience and only one has ever won all-state high school honors. This knowledge only serves to increase the anxiety of Coach Monk Maddox, freshman mentor at Davidson.

Coaches Back From Enjoyable Vacation
Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson seek mountain retreat for their vacation. Both coaches have, for the past year or so, gone to Camp Carolina, where they have taken an active part in directing some phase of the camp’s program. Camp Carolina is located in a beautiful spot of our own state, some 60 miles from Asheville, and is maintained by a group of business men of Jacksonville, Fla. This year there were four college coaches engaged, each directing some department of athletics. Coach Monk was in charge of the baseball department, while Tex directed the department in horseback riding. During their two months’ stay they had an opportunity to rest up a bit as well as keep in good condition. In addition to their regular duties they joined the camp in taking a 60-mile canoe trip to Asheville, returning to camp by way of automobile. All in all the coaches spent a pleasant and enjoyable vacation and are back, ready for their part, to turn out another state-championship team.He works his way in an effort to build up a Wildkitten machine capable of making a creditable showing in North Carolina freshman circles. Of the 34 yearlings who have had high school football training, six are former captains. Twenty of the 34 yearlings with previous experience are candidates for positions in the line, and 14 are seeking backfield berths. Three of the six former high school captains are candidates for the position of center, the other three are out for tackle positions. This fact only serves to complicate the task that faces Coach Maddox. It is unfortunate that the few experienced candidates reporting for his practices are all seeking to land the same positions, leaving a large number of other places to be filled on the team from the 30 unseasoned and untrained aspirants with whom he has to work.

The six former high school captains now seeking a place with the Davidson freshman team are: Mason, captain and center of Kings Mountain High School; R. C. Wilson, captain and center of Marion High School; Sisson, captain and center on Winona (Miss.) High School; Foil, captain and tackle of Salisbury High School; Covington, captain and tackle of Red Springs High School; and Page, captain and all-state tackle from Gastonia High School. Page, the all-state star from Gastonia, was injured in a tackling drill Monday afternoon, but his injuries are believed to be of a minor nature.

The first game of the Wildkitten schedule is with the Oak Ridge Military Academy, on October 4th, and promises to be a lively tilt. It is generally rumored that the Oak Ridge cadets will have an unusually strong team this year, and Coach Maddox and his Davidson yearlings are not underestimating the job that lies ahead of them. These candidates hail from several of the Southern States, with North Carolina by far in the lead. Of the cities represented, Barium Springs leads with a total of five representatives, while Gastonia follows with three. Below is a partial list of those out for the team and their respective positions:

John Currie, Davidson’s stellar sprint star and captain of the Wildcat Track Team, competed in the National Inter-Collegiate track meet at Chicago, on June 10th and 11th. Though he took third place in two events, he did not qualify, the first two men being the only ones to qualify. However, after becoming affiliated with the Newark Athletic Club, Currie entered the A. A. U., held on July 4th and 5th, at Lincoln, Nebraska, as a member of the four-forty and eight-eighty yard relay team of the Newark A. C. In the four-forty yard relay, Newark, with Currie running as one of the team, broke the world’s record with the time of 41 seconds. Cummings, of West Virginia, was another man on the Newark relay team. In the eight-eighty yard relay, the Newark club placed second. Another world’s record was broken in this meet. A very singular feature of this meet was that four world’s records were broken in five minutes. In the eight-eighty, Currie ran against Paddock, the world’s fastest man. Currie lost no ground. While nothing definite is known, it is hoped that Currie will be back with the Wildcats in the spring. He is not in school, but hopes, at present, to return in the fall as captain of the track team.

The freshman football team this year has a very heavy schedule for the coming grid season. The team has five games on schedule, the first game being with Oak Ridge Preparatory School, at Oak Ridge. This game is always a hard one, as the Oak Ridge boys generally have a fast, heavy team. Duke, with its large freshman class, should have as good a team as the one they had last year. The remaining three games, those with Wofford, State, and Presbyterian College, should also prove highly interesting. The following is the schedule:

Oct. 8—Oak Ridge, at Oak Ridge.
Oct. 14—Wofford, at Davidson.
Nov. 4—Duke, at Durham.
Nov. 11—State, at Davidson.
Nov. 19—P. C., at Davidson.

Rev. W. M. Hunter, ’93, of Davidson, was recently elected moderator of the Concord Presbytery. L. D. Wharton, Jr., ’27, is on the reportorial staff of the Greensboro Daily News, accepting this position immediately after graduation.

Covington—Red Springs—Tackle
Proctor—Lincoln—End
Watt, Thomasville—Center-Guard
Mason—Kings Mountain—Center
Whitner—Hickory—Guard
Poe—Winthrop
Foil—Salisbury
Wilson—Marion—Center
Sisson—Winona, Miss.—Center
Page—Gastonia—Tackle
Pope—Lumberton
Lafar—Gastonia
Lynch—Easley, S. C.—Center
Hall—Covington
Padgett—Forest City—Guard
Boyle—Wagram—Guard
Farrell—Dunn—Fullback
S. S. Scales—Miss. A. & M.—Halfback
Fraley—Barium Springs—Halfback
Shepherd—Wilson
Hood—Goldsboro
Glenn—Gastonia—Halfback
McCall—Salisbury—Quarterback
Estridge—Barium Springs—Quarterback
Brock—Barium Springs—Tackle
Johnston—Barium Springs—End-Guard
Hunt—Barium Springs—Center-Guard
David—Wilmington—Halfback
Wilson—Abbeville—Halfback
Goodykoontz—Bluefield—Halfback
Knox—Huntersville—Tackle