6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1927

Juniors Decide Upon Davidsonian as Annual Publication

In departing from the custom of previous years of carrying out an elaborate and expensive Junior Speaking program, the class of ’29 voted by a large majority not to follow the precedent of the three preceding classes of issuing a special and separate publication. It was decided Monday morning that the offer of Boyce Martin, editor of The Davidsonian, to the effect that the college weekly would be turned completely over to the Juniors on the week designated by them for the Junior Speaking program. In accepting the offer, the class is procuring a means whereby they might issue an adequate, though not expensive, publication.

The “Sanity Rare,” which for two years has been published by the third-year men, has been gotten out at a great expense in time and money. The class recognized the fact that this special edition of The Davidsonian will be an effective means by which they can continue a special publication at a minimum cost. Last year the Juniors published “Sanity Rare,” of which Caldwell Withers was editor. This publication and the magazine of the year before bearing the same name were both successful but were made at a great sacrifice. The first of the Junior publications was issued by the class of '26, three years ago, under the name of “Saturday Evening Toast.” All of these magazines have featured wit and humor.

Week End Guests

The following is a list of the fraternity house party guests for the weekend of the V. M. I. game:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Lilly Van Luven, Wilmington; Esther Elliot, Wilmington; Ann Osteen, Sumter, S. C.; Frances Shute, Converse College; Ruth Cannon, Concord; Audy Mann, Richmond, Va.; Sara Ashcraft, N. C. C. W.; Julia Marsh, High Point; Edna McCoy, Converse, S. C.; Dorothy Byers, Rock Hill, S. C.; Mary Alderman, Elizabeth Newell, Greensboro; Elizabeth Alcove, S. C.; Priscilla Shaw, Sumter, S. C.; Ethel Glidewell, Reidsville; Helen Shand, Columbia, S. C.; Mesdames Francis Womack, Reidsville; Robert Bland, Sumpter, N. C.; H. O. Smith, Washington, D. C.; and Joe White, Mooresville, N. C.

Special Edition Reporters Elect Three Writers to Membership

Golden Quill Presentations to be Made Soon

Three new men were chosen as members of the Reporters’ Club at a meeting held last Monday night in The Davidsonian office. These new men elected were: Paul Fry, Alan Frew, and Russell Neuman. November 19th was set as the date of the initiation of these new men. A meeting has been called for Monday night, November 19th, at which meeting a reorganization of the membership of the club is planned. It was moreover decided that the Reporters’ Club would purchase immediately the Golden Quills to be given to those men whom it has elected to wear them.

Eligibility to the Reporters’ Club is based upon the ability and perseverance in writing of those men working on The Davidsonian and yet not on the staff. The Reporters’ Club is open to men of all four classes, the Freshmen, however, being chosen in the spring of each year. The three men who were elected are prominent in different phases of college life. Fry, a Junior, is a member of the Glee Club, both orchestras, and figures in general student affairs. Frew was president of the Freshman class and is a consistent worker in Y. M. C. A. work. Neuman is also a “Y” worker, a track man, and a leader in class activities. Frew and Neuman are Sophomores.

Classicists Elect New Club Officers

At the first meeting of the Classical Club, held last Thursday night, an election of the new officers was held. W. K. Pritchett was chosen president, and E. T. Moye made secretary and treasurer. This club was formed last year for the purpose of stimulating interest in the classics on the hill, with a special interest toward those Greek and Latin works which should be of interest to college students. The initial or charter members of the Classical Club were: J. S. Grey, who was elected president; W. K. Pritchett, whom they chose secretary and treasurer; H. Johnson; Dr. Harding, the head of the Greek department; and Dr. Grey, head of the Latin department. E. P. Moye was taken in at a later date. Several other new members have been taken in, among whom are Professor Vowles, professor of German, and Professor Carr, who is a new addition to the faculty and who is a professor of Greek.

Ida Bothwell and Judith Hill, Winthrop College; Sarah Austel and Charlie Hoffman, N. C. C. W.; Elizabeth Henderson, Mary Patterson, and Julia Orr, Charlotte.N. C.; Ruth Arrowood and Olive Singleton, Shelby; Kitty Morris, Greer, S. C.; Louise Ruff, Converse College; Elizabeth Montgomery, York, S. C.; Mary Jane Whinton, Greensboro, N. C.; Martha Shachner, Boone; Elizabeth Cannady, Oxford; Mary Moore Montgomery, Montgomery, W. Va.

Beta Theta Pi: Penelope Cannon and Alice Cannon York, Concord; Tommy Holt and Irene Hough, Winthrop College; Rebie Jones and Rachel Highsmith, Converse College; Rose Morgan and Sally Wallace, Greenville, S. C.; Elizabeth Story and May Boules, Augusta, Ga.; Isabel Dunn and Elizabeth Dewey, Salem; Dee Haskins, Reidsville; Lillian Parker, Gastonia; Winifred Pegram, Charlotte; Eulalee Campbell, Anderson, S. C.; Julie Ritzius, Nashville, Tenn., and Elise Deyerle, Bluefield, W. Va.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Elise Knobelock, Hazel Henkel, Statesville.

Delta Theta Chi: Misses Agnes Rice, Winthrop College; Katherine Chandler, Wesleyan College; Mary McLaurin, Charlotte; Annette Boney, Greensboro; Edla Best, N. C. C. W.; Paul Dillard, Durham; Betty Bryan, Sweet Briar College, Va.; Thelma Johnston, Lexington, N. C.; Townsend and Georgia Townsend, of Winthrop College.

300 Alumni Attend Luncheon Here

A group of alumni, estimated at approximately 300, accompanied by wives, sweethearts, and friends, were entertained at a special luncheon arranged in their honor at the gymnasium on Homecoming Day. The number of alumni attending the luncheon was considerably in excess of the number that had been expected and was taken as an indication of the interest aroused among alumni all over this innovation.

A COMPLETE LINE OF DRUGS AND SUNDRIES
WHITE DRUG CO.

The luncheon was served under the auspices of the alumni council, cooperating with “Spike” McGhee, J. T. Orsby, and J. R. McCravey, who acted as caterers. A number of other students assisted in serving the large number of guests. It was generally believed prior to the luncheon that alumni would prefer to take their lunch on the campus rather than in Charlotte or the other cities through which they would pass en route to Davidson, and for their convenience, the alumni luncheon was arranged. The success of the venture presages the opinion that it will be a regular feature of all Homecoming celebrations of the future.

A young man who had taken his Ford out on a cold, wintry day, was covering the engine with a blanket.
Little Boy (looking on)—“Don’t cover it up, mister, I saw what it was.”

Guard Your Assets

A FIDELITY bond on ALL employees protects a going concern against loss of moneys, securities, merchandise, or property through the dishonesty of any of its employees.
McALISTER-CARSON ('13) Mgr.
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)

Kappa Sigma: Margaret Smith, Charlotte; Isabel Pharr, Charlotte; Charlotte Guy, Charlotte; Margaret Monroe, Charlotte; Edna Carson, Charlotte; Hortense Cobb, Rock Hill, S. C.; Hamilton Dunbar, Rock Hill, S. C.; Hattie Carson, Winthrop College; Edna York, Rock Hill, S. C.; Kalista Hood, Davidson; Alice Caldwell, Winston-Salem; Emma Holiday, Converse College; Frances Stedman, Fayetteville; Mary Evans, Fayetteville; Elizabeth Norfleet, Winston-Salem; Alice Haynesworth, Greenville, S. C.; Mary West, Spartanburg, S. C.

Pyramid Club: Clara David Porter, Charlotte; A. C. Haseldon, Charlotte; Margaret Lesnesne, Winthrop College; Marguerite Buchanan, Asheville; Ellye Hill, Asheville; Frances Thompson, Greensboro, N. C.; Cornelia Vinson, N. C. C. W.

Kappa Alpha: Martha Robinson, Converse College; Margaret Dawson, Converse College; Rose Williams, Converse College; Frances Williams, Converse College; Tecla Matson, Converse College; Virginia Menzies, Converse College; Martha Erkman, Hendersonville; Sylvia Corall, Tampa, Fla.; Miss Corall, Tampa, Fla.; Evelyn Wagner, Charlotte; Emma Cothrone, Charlotte; Miss Calhoun, Davidson; Bobb Metts, Sweet Briar, Va.; Lillian Le Conte, Decatur, Ga.; Lib Thornton, Greensboro; Miss Flowers, Thomasville, Ga.

Phi Gamma Delta: Margaret Bailey, Winston-Salem; Elizabeth Wharton, Charlotte; Ida Allison, Charlotte; Wilma Kuck, Wilmington; Martha Maslin, Winston-Salem; Hazel Hudson, Salisbury; Nannie Withers, Charlotte; Jessie Gamble, Lincolnton; Betsy McCorkle, Salisbury; Frances Fletcher, Winston-Salem; “Bob” Jenkins, Salisbury; Alice Dunklee, Winston-Salem.

Theta Upsilon Omega: Louise Garabaldi, Charlotte; Mildred Biggers, Charlotte; Florence Yarborough, Charlotte; Viola Durant, Charlotte; Ruth Lowrance, Barium Springs; Mildred Lee Gaston, Charlotte; Rebecca McGarity, Charlotte; Sara Withers, Davidson; Julia McKinney, Salisbury; Virginia Hoey, Shelby; Sara Doll, Charlotte; Evelyn Josephs, Charlotte.

Sigma Delta: Agnes Dibble, Agnes Mansfield, Betty Tate, Virginia Wilkinson, and Evelyn Glenn, Converse College; Agnes Steel, Betty Steele, and Martha Alexander, Spartanburg, S. C.; Virginia Williamson and Miss Burlington; Louise Brown and Gordon McIver, Bristol, Va.; Edith Cochran, Charlotte, and Julie Fairy, Greenville, S. C.

Pi Kappa Phi: Carrol Smith, Washington; Weeks, Hendersonville; Ware, High Point; Libby, Salisbury; Sallie Schenck, Charlotte.

FOR THE BEST OF GOOD REASONS
Chesterfield smokers change with pleasure... but watch how other smokers are changing to Chesterfield!