THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1927

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Announcement has been received at the alumni office of the engagement of Frederick William Smith, ’24, to Miss Martha Eleanor
Hill, of Kinston, N. C., the marriage to be solemnized on January 4, 1928, at the home of the bride’s
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Richard Franklin Hill. The prospective bride is one of Kinston’s most attractive and accomplished young women.
She was graduated from the North Carolina College for Women, and for the past two years has been supervisor of
music in the Roanoke Rapids public schools. Mr. Smith, who attended both Davidson and N. C. State Colleges, is now
associated in business with the Smith Brothers Wholesale House at Mt. Airy, N. C. He is a member of the
Sigma Nu fraternity, and is popular with a wide circle of friends and acquaintances.

Mr. William C. D. Kerr, ’15, was married to Miss Catherine Verona Rockwell, at Bridges Hall, Claremont, Calif., on Saturday,
October 1st. Mr. Kerr was formerly a member of the faculty of the University of North Carolina, and the proprietor
of a private school in New York State. Mr. and Mrs. Kerr are at home at 1687 North Michigan Avenue,
Pasadena, Calif.

Mr. Frank Sampson Shaw, ’24, will be married to Miss Mary Maxwell Lowry, one of the most attractive young society
women of Tallahassee, Fla., early in December, it was learned here this week. Miss Lowry attended the Florida State College
for Women and was a member of the Alpha Delta Pi sorority. Mr. Shaw is president of the Tallahassee Motor
Company, and has a host of friends in the business and social world who will be interested to learn of
his approaching marriage.

Rev. William Cooper-Cumming, '18, will be married to Miss Maude Craig Carson, daughter of Mrs. James Edward Carson, on Tuesday
evening, November 22 at 6 o'clock at the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, N. C. The bride-to-be has recently returned
from China where she has been teaching in a mission school for four years. Mr. Cumming, formerly of Wilmington, now
of Henderson, has also returned from mission work in the Orient.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING Charlotte, N. C.

Davidson Alumni At Harvard University are After Graduate Degrees

Graduate Schools at Harvard Attract Davidson Men Seeking New Degrees

Ten former Davidson students are now pursuing graduate studies at Harvard University, according to information recently received at the alumni
office. Two of these students are enrolled in the business school, three in the graduate schools, four in the law
school, and one in the medical college. The Davidson men included in this list recently furnished by Harvard officials include
the names of:

Hudson Leathers, ’27, who is a student of the Harvard school of business.
W. S. Woods, ’27, also enrolled in the Harvard school of business.
H. M. Austin, ’27, who is doing graduate work in English.
D. B. Wheaton, '24, also doing graduate work in English.
Wallace Moore, ’23, who is a first-year student in the Harvard law school.
S. W. Moore, ’25, doing second-year work in the Harvard medical college.
Houston White, ’21, a student in the Harvard school of law.
J. A. Lake, ’25, who is now in his third year as a student in the Harvard school of law.
Willard Keerans, ’27, who is a first-year student in the law school at Harvard.
Alvin Rowe, ’25, who is a student in the graduate school of Harvard.

CAROLINA LIMITED train passed through the larger cities the band played and the students had impromptu Pep meetings. “All students
that go to the game must go on the special train. No one will be allowed to bum up to
the game and then register there. This is done because of the fact that it will be necessary to get
125 men to go on the special, and it is feared that if the student body is given the choice
to bum or pay $5.25 for a ride, that it will be impossible to run the special train,” says “Spike”
McGee. “Spike” also pointed out that if the special was not run that it would be almost impossible for all
of the students to get to the game.

Fireflies inoculated with adrenalin have been kept glowing for twenty-four hours. The adrenalin causes a muscular contraction and a continuous
instead of intermittent supply of oxygen to the light-producing cells.

A COMPLETE LINE OF DRUGS AND SUNDRIES WHITE DRUG CO.

Safeguard Your Assets

Personal

Recent visitors to the alumni office have been W. F. Milburn, ’10, of Atlanta, Ga., and S. Reid Sloan, '23,
of Salisbury. Mr. Milburn was in this section in the interest of the Addressograph Co., being manager of a large
territory, with offices in Atlanta. Mr. Sloan is secretary-treasurer of the Salisbury Alumni Association, and is on his vacation at
the present time. Both attended the State-Davidson game in Greensboro Saturday.

Clifton Murphy, ’13, whose address is 49 Wall St., New York City, is now touring Europe.

J. E. Singletary, ’25, is teaching this year at the Blue Ridge School in Hendersonville, N. C.

F. Pinkney, ’27, who is attending the University of Colorado, studying law, will be a candidate for a Rhodes scholarship
this year, it has been learned at Davidson.

S. H. Askew, ’20, who for the past several years has been a professor in the Darlington School for Boys
at Rome, Ga., is now studying at the University of North Carolina, and at Davidson Homecoming Day.

Rev. R. E. McClure, ’20, of Leaksville, is this week conducting evangelistic services at the Seversville Presbyterian church in Charlotte.

Rev. L. R. Scott, '08,of Valdosta, Ga., recently spent a week at the Westminster Presbyterian Church, being in charge of
services there. Rev. O. M. Anderson, ’08, has recently moved from Lexington, Va., to Water Valley, Miss., having accepted a
pastorate at the latter point. Four Davidson alumni are internes at the Grady Hospital, Atlanta, Ga. They are T. A.
Lacy, ’20; W. L. Pomeroy, ’25; E. S. Faison, ’24; and W. E. Miller, '26. Two 1904 men are now
located in Washington, D. C.: Dr. C. A. Cornelson is at 4701 Connecticut Ave., N. W., doing work in the
Congressional Library, while Capt. F. L. Black is in the Quartermaster’s department of the United States Army, and can be
reached, care Quartermaster General, Washington, D. C. J. S. McRae, ’27, who is with the Alston Tobacco Co., has been
transferred from Serres, Greece, to Smyrna, Turkey. H. K. Aiken, Jr., ’18, who has been living in Chicago, Ill., for
the past several years, has returned to his home at Aiken, S. C., where he is now located in business.

A FIDELITY bond on ALL employees protects a going concern against loss of moneys, securities, merchandise, or property through the
dishonesty of any of its employees.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

Davidson Alumni in New York Gather Friday For Annual Dinner-Meeting

Forty-Eight Alumni Residing in New York and Vicinity Will Attend Meeting

Forty-eight Davidson College alumni, residing in New York City and vicinity, will gather at the New York Advertising Club, 23
Park Avenue, on Friday evening at 8 p.m. for the annual fall meeting of the New York Davidson Alumni Association,
according to a notice received at the alumni office early this week. The New York Alumni Association, which embodies not
only the City of New York but nearby sections of New Jersey as well, was established a number of years
ago and at the present time is the northernmost organization of Davidson alumni. Present officers of the association are W.
P. Anderson, ’07, president; H. A. Johnston, ’02, vice-president; Hadley A. Hill, ’21, secretary and treasurer. In view of the
impossibility of sending a representative of the general alumni office to the fall meeting of the New York association, telegrams
and letters of felicitation have been forwarded from the college to the alumni of that section.

Davidson Safe if Rabbit Feet Last Says ‘Doc’ Charlie

“Doc Charlie,” as he is known to nearly all of the Davidson students and has been for many a year,
says that this year’s football team seems to be better than ever before to him. “I’ve been rubbing down the
Wildcats for about twenty-four years now and I hope to be doing the same thing twenty-four years from now. After
every football season is over I just know that there can’t be another team as good as the last one,
and then the next year they always seem to be better than any of them. Every year before football starts
people all over the state begin saying that Davidson won’t do much this year, and then they come along and
win everything. This rabbit foot of mine may have something to do with it. It’s not everybody that knows how
to treat one, you got to handle them right. And then most of all you’ve got to have a Wildcat
rabbit foot to do any real good.”

“Doc Charlie” came to work for the Davidson Athletic Association when he was about fifteen years old and has been
working for it steadily ever since. He has worked under such men as Captain Bill and Mr. Robert Fetzer, Coaches
Bruin, Graham, Levine, and Gray, and last of all Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson. Coach Younger came to school
at Davidson one year, that of '16. He stayed long enough to win four letters that one year, however. And
according to Doc Charlie, he was one of the best ends Davidson ever had or ever will have. When “Doc
Charlie” came to Davidson, the football field was where the tennis courts are now and the players were rubbed down
in their own rooms in Old Chambers.

Beginning Tuesday, November 8th, and continuing for four Tuesday nights, the re-entry rifle match will be held here. Participants in
this contest will be members of the student body, and anyone from outside desiring to take part in it. Firing
will be held in the indoor gallery in the gymnasium.

The plan under which the competition will be conducted is that each man fire four scores prone, sitting, kneeling, and
standing—each evening during the period of the match. The holder of the highest score at the conclusion of the firing
will be awarded a trophy given by Capt. Reid Morrison, Davidson graduate of 1902, of Mooresville. It is expected that
among those from outside the student body taking part in the competition will be certain marksmen from Statesville and Charlotte.

The new automobiles are coming in a variety of colors, but the pedestrians will still have to be content with
black and blue—Wet Hen.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Colorful as the sunset and gay as the autumn woods after the leaves have turned, this season’s neckwear awaits the
pleasure of your selection here. Dozens of patterns and colors, created especially for the university man by silk makers at
home and abroad to choose from. $1.00 up.

TATE-BROWN CO.

Smartness in patterns and good taste in color combinations are the keynotes of our wool hosiery display this season. We
have looked over thousands of patterns from both American and foreign mills and picked out only the best of them
for you. 75c up.

TATE-BROWN CO.
