THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1927

-- Sport Talk --
News and Views of Wildcat Events
By Raymond Lake

Carolina! Carolina! We wonder sometimes if Mr. Jake Wade realizes that the Davidson Wildcats hold the title of State Champions of North Carolina. According to Mr. Wade, the Tar Heels are the only ones who have a show for the 1927 championship. They may win the title this year, we're not saying they won't, but they've surely got a scrap coming. It would be very reasonable to expect that the State Championship team would be featured at least a few times on the Sport Page of a nearby daily paper, especially when that paper is much nearer to the State Championship team than to any other team in the state. However, Mr. Jake Wade evidently doesn’t think so. The Wildcat team has been mentioned only a very few times in the Charlotte Observer this year, and with one or two exceptions, it has never received any more than a mention. Publicity is not the thing that wins games, however, and it may be that when the results of the games begin to come in, somebody will be forced to change his opinion. It is the custom of the Wildcats to cause a few upsets before the season is over, and unless we miss our guess, this year will be no exception to the rule. It takes more than material to win football games. It takes fight, grit, the Wildcat Spirit, in other words, and good training. There’s not a team in the state that has better spirit, more fight, or better training than the Davidson Wildcats. What the Wildcats lack in weight and material they make up in these three requirements, so it looks like a pretty even bet to us.

In the first scrimmage with the Freshmen last Saturday, the Champions looked mighty good. The backfield showed up especially well and the line did its part in fine style. Grey looks like his old self again, and with the improvement that is bound to come later in the season, there’s no telling what he may do. Wilson, Harrison, Hewlett, Nesbit, Kell, and Black all looked mighty good, and when Monk has had time to work with them a little more, our bet is that it won’t be an easy job to stop any of them. It won’t be long now till the first game. Citadel has a mighty strong team and promises a fight, but, as has been said before, they can’t beat the Wildcats when it comes to fighting. The Citadel team has a reputation for its fighting spirit and with that spirit prevailing on both sides, a great time should be had by all. Practically the whole student body has signified its intention of going to the game. Let’s all get there somehow! There is a highway all the way there and “bumming” should be comparatively easy. Let’s be there and back that team!

In their first scrimmage with the varsity last Saturday afternoon, several of the Wildkittens showed mighty good form. Jim Foil, from Salisbury, at guard, got his share of the tackles and then some. He showed unusual ability to break through the line and smear up a play, and when playing against a team a little better matched to the Wildkittens than the varsity, he should show up even better. Jim was an all-state high school guard last year. Sissons, at center, also showed up good in the line. In the backfield, Warren David, from Wilmington, was probably the outstanding player. He also got a little more than his share of the tackles. Other members of the team will probably show up better later on in the season. The idea of the first scrimmage with the State Champions of North Carolina probably kept some of them from putting out all they had, and the next scrimmage will probably speak a little better for them.

“Felix,” the faithful Wildcat mascot, is dead. The close confinement of his cage seems to have been too much for him, and, though Doc Charlie gave him the best attention possible, he died during the latter part of the summer. Plans are already under way to get another mascot, and in a few days, another emblem of the Wildcat Spirit will be in the cage to take the place of “Felix.”

Growl of Mascot Silenced by Death

“Felix,” the veteran Wildcat of Davidson College, and for several years mascot of the various teams, has gone the way of all flesh. During the summer months, he succumbed to the heat which in the narrow confines of his cage proved to be unbearable. Students returning to the campus were disappointed when, on seeking the growling mascot of other years, they found his cage void of all signs of life. The presence of “Felix” at the football games in which his namesakes took part will long be remembered by the football fans of North Carolina. He seemed to be most at home when Davidson met the University of North Carolina here last year and sent them home defeated, for keeping his eye on the ball, as is the custom of all true Wildcats, he strode up and down in his narrow cage and shrieked challenges to the doughty Tarheels. He was also very much in evidence at the Duke University game, and when it was learned that Davidson had won the state championship, “Felix” growled his congratulations to the tune of “O Davidson.”

“Felix’s” ability to make away with chicken has long been an object of wonder and amazement for many Davidson students. The procedure is as follows: A full-grown hen is thrown into the cage. A lithe figure leaps down on the hen from above. An agonized “squawk,” and the wildcat glares his defiance at the wondering students, as if he “just hopes that one of them will dispute his rightful ownership.” The Davidson Wildcats without a mascot bearing their name would be like a railroad train without an engine, and “Spike” McGee, the cheer leader, has announced that one is being sought at the present time in the wild and wooly jungles of western North Carolina. Whatever may be the case, it is certain that one will be secured in the near future, and it is hoped that “Felix the Second” will be on hand to take part in the cheering when the football team steps on the field in Gastonia next Saturday, formally opening the 1927 season.

Included in a very heavy program of speakers for this year is found the name of Charlie Paddock, the world-famed speed artist of the cinder track. Paddock, well known as the world’s fastest human, will come to address Davidson men during the fall season, and his coming will be looked forward to with a great deal of interest. The Y was able to include Charlie in the list of speakers for this year thanks to the help of the College Committee on Lectures, through whom arrangements were completed.

J. B. Kuykendall, ‘27, was the winner of $25 in an ad writing contest conducted by The Charlotte Observer this summer. He is connected...with the Glasgow-Stewart Auto Accessory Company.

Monk and Tex Perform Wonders With Wildcats
Build Fighting Eleven From Almost No Material

STATE CHAMPIONS
Wildcat Backers Hinge Hopes on Monk and Tex—Known as “Gloomy Boys”

Sporting writers and football fans like to call Monk Younger, shown at the left in the accompanying photograph, and Tex Tilson, on the right, the “gloomy boys” of North Carolina football. At Davidson College, where they coach, they’re looked upon as miracle men.

Back in the fall of 1923, Monk Younger and Tex Tilson arrived in Davidson, fresh from the Virginia Polytechnic Institute, where Younger had been a gridiron coach for many seasons, and Tilson had just completed a spectacular gridiron career as a V. P. I. lineman and captain. They found football interest at Davidson at a low ebb, and a scarcity of gridiron material that appalled them.

It had been six years since the Davidson Wildcats had made any sort of showing in state football circles, and there seemed little chance of improvement with the mediocre material with which Younger and Tilson were called upon to work. When sport scribes introduced themselves to Younger and asked what he thought of Davidson’s chances to stage a comeback on the gridiron, he let up a howl of despondency that was echoed throughout the South. That was in 1923. He is still “crying” over Davidson’s prospects along with Tilson, who has stuck by him in his remorse. They never smile. That's why they’re called the “gloomy boys” among North Carolina coaches.

A glimpse at the records explains why Davidson fans look upon them as miracle performers, and why they’ve made such a scramble to retain the two coaches. After a dismal showing during the season of 1923, Monk and Tex returned to the lair of the Wildcats, still gloomy, and set to work building up an eleven that surprised even its closest friends by the spectacular climb to third place among North Carolina’s “Big Five.” The following season, the Davidson Wildcats, now accustomed to the Younger-Tilson tactics, went through a highly gratifying season and ended in a tie for second-place honors among the leading teams in the state.

It was during the fall of 1926 that Monk Younger and Tex Tilson sprang their biggest surprise. The wisest sport observers in the Old North State, impressed with Younger’s gloom, predicted early in the season that Davidson, with a light team and no outstanding players, would do well to keep out of the “cellar” position in the standing of North Carolina elevens, while a majority of sport scribes frankly declared that Davidson was destined to end the season a weak third or a probable fourth-place contender.

Thanksgiving Day rolled around and North Carolina fans awoke one Sunday morning to read in their papers that Davidson had won the 1926 “Big Five” championship, having passed through the entire season without suffering a defeat at the hands of a single North Carolina eleven. Carolina had been trounced by the Wildcats in one of the most startling gridiron reverses in several years and had bowed to the Wildcats in a 10-0 defeat. The influence of Younger and Tilson was more in evidence in the strategy displayed by the Wildcats in that game than ever before, and the Tar Heels, surprised by a devastating aerial attack in the opening quarter, went down before the light Davidson team for the first time in six years.

VARSITY SCHEDULE
Sept. 24—The Citadel, at Gastonia.
Oct. 1—U. of Fla., at Gainesville, Fla.
Oct. 8—Wofford, at Spartanburg.
Oct. 15—Elon, at Davidson.
Oct. 22—Wake Forest, at Greensboro.
Oct. 29—V. M. I., at Davidson (Home Coming Day).
Nov. 5—N. C. State, at Greensboro.
Nov. 12—U. of N. C., at Chapel Hill.
Nov. 24—Duke, at Davidson (Thanksgiving).

During Four Years Here, “Monk” Younger

Duke University met the Wildcats the following Saturday and came out on the bitter end of a 20-0 score. N. C. State had previously been defeated 3-0. Wake Forest and Davidson battled four quarters to a 3-3 tie. The Wildcats and their coaches had “arrived” at last.

Today Monk Younger and Tex Tilson are gloomier than ever before. They've lost 15 lettermen from last year’s championship squad. They have no reserves. Without a capable receiver, their plans for an aerial attack look hopeless. Sport writers predict that Davidson will close the 1927 season in fifth place. On the Davidson campus, however, the students have confidence in the Younger-Tilson combination and seem little worried by the gloomy reports that emanate from the Wildcat lair.

FLORIDA GAME
A vote will be taken in Chapel either Saturday or Monday morning to determine whether or not the student body wishes to have the returns from the Florida game brought in over a special wire. Because of the longer distance, it will be necessary to charge about 50 cents for admission. Tickets to the game will cost $2.00. Come to the gym and save $1.50.

Dick Carr Returns to Captain Matmen
The prospects for the tennis team for 1927-28 seem rather bright, since two members of last year’s team are back. These men will be materially aided by a wealth of reserve and Freshman material from last year. Dick Carr, playing third man on the team last year, has returned to captain the team. John T. Roddey, who went to the finals in the North Carolina inter-collegiate meet, will manage the team this year. His capable handling of his racquet rates him as number one man on the team last year, a position for which he will be fighting again this year.

All of last year’s Freshman team has returned to school. These men—Frontis Johnson, Al Halverstadt, A. L. DeCamp, and Ham Pettus—will all be fighting for the positions left vacant by McCutchen and McAlpine. The success of the team in the spring of 1927 gives the aspirants to the two vacancies a high goal at which to aim. Beside the fine showing of Roddey in the State singles, Carr and McCutchen captured the State Championship in doubles for the second consecutive time. On their trip to the North, the team was victorious in all but one of the matches. Last year’s season consisted of five matches. The Wildcats lost only one of these, the loss being to the University of Pennsylvania, on the Northern trip. The team played on this trip, the teams of Colgate, Cornell, and Bethlehem. Their only Southern match was won from Furman.

It is planned to have a Southern trip this year through the states of Georgia, Tennessee, Alabama, and Florida. Nothing positive is known on this latter trip, but it seems to be a probability.

The CREDENZA, $300.00
ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY

THURS., FRI., SAT., MON., 23, 24, 26
The Movie and Vaudeville Menu At the CAROLINA THEATRE
Four big Keith Acts with Dorothy Byton and her Revue of beautiful Dancing Girls
On the screen, “That Model from Paris” with Marceline Day, Bert Lytell.

Tues., 27
The underworld starring George Bancroft
ON THE STAGE
A BEAUTIFUL FASHION SHOW

Wed. 28