THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 13, 1927

H. D. Corbett Speaks at Vesper Services Sunday
Bowling Green Pastor Talks to Students on “Square Deals”

He later changed and went to the Law School at the University of Illinois, receiving his degree there in 1916.
He was appointed an instructor in and head of the Department of Public Speaking at this university after his graduation,
but was later induced to go to Northwestern University, at Evanston, IL.

Famous Track Star Returns to School
John Curry, the fastest runner ever at Davidson, has returned to school for the spring term, and expects to go
out for the track team during the coming season. He withdrew from school last year in February. As a freshman,
Curry ran the 100-yard dash in 9.9 seconds, official record. In Greensboro two years ago he ran the hundred against
Jackson Sholtz, Olympic track star and one of the fastest dash men in the world. Sholtz was timed at 9.5
seconds, and Curry was only a step behind him at the tape.

The Y. M. C. A. began their new year services last Sunday with an interesting and inspirational sermon by H.
D. Corbett. The subject of this speech was “A Square Deal.” Mr. Corbett is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at
Bowling Green, S. C., and graduated from Davidson in the class of 1923. Mr. Jackson introduced the speaker and pointed
out that he enjoys the confidence of his people as much as is found in any congregation.

At the start of his speech, Mr. Corbett alluded to the great demands for a square deal in the world
of today. The recent assassins in Chicago, Belgium during the World War, and many groups of strikers have all demanded
it. The demand and exigency of a square deal is required everywhere. “When we talk of a square deal, there
are three parties we must deal with, viz., God, our fellowman, and ourselves.”

When we think of dealing with our God, Mr. Corbett pointed out we must deal squarely with the church. David
of old preferred Zion as his first choice. Furthermore, we must, in dealing squarely with God, deal truly with Christ,
the Word of God, and, finally, the standard that is found within the Bible. These different divisions of the speech
were wonderfully illustrated by examples drawn from the personal experience of the speaker.

“We must deal squarely with our fellowman.” Billy Sunday impressed audiences because he got men to become fiery for Jesus.
Ted Mercer was expelled from a home in Harvard Law School and spent a year there.

Professional Notices
Phones: Office, 588—Residence, 65
DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance
Commercial National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5, Sundays 7 to 9.

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-J

DR. G. A. LAZENBY
DENTIST
Statesville, N. C.
Phone 494

STUDENTS WILL BE ADDRESSED
(Continued from page 1)

chance to be out in the open. He could not be out in the North Woods which he loved so
much, but at least he was not cooped up in the slums of Chicago. It was while living at Benton
Harbor that he rescued a man from drowning, and was recommended for a Carnegie Medal. No witnesses could be produced,
however, and Lew did not receive the medal. He was an excellent student, and graduated from high school at 18.
His father, although himself uneducated, wanted his son to have an education, and helped him to enter the University of
Michigan. Here his ability as a student was even more pronounced. He was chosen by his instructor in English as
one of the twelve best students in the class, and allowed to write on subjects of his own choice. This
inspired him and...made him take more interest in his work. At the end of his first year, however, he changed
from the University of Michigan to Beloit College, in Wisconsin. From this time on, Lew spent at least three or
four months out of each year in the woods. He served for a while as a United States Ranger, and
also as a guide in the North Woods. He recently received an offer which would pay him twice as much
as his present salary, but refused it because it would require all his time and would allow him no time
to spend in the woods.

After graduation from Beloit, Lew entered Georgia, but was befriended by others and is now in “Y” work. In the
speaker's third division, the necessity of dealing squarely with ourselves was emphasized. We must deal truly with our physical bodies,
with our education, and with our professions. We have a wonderful heritage and must train it. Misfits are not wanted
today and the only way we can find ourselves is to talk it over with Christ. In doing so, we
must also pay the price. But in our trials and adversities, He is for us. "They that deal truly are
His delight."

WHEN IN STATESVILLE CALL ON US FOR YOUR BARBER SHOP WANTS
Commercial Barber Shop
Statesville, N.C.

DRASTIC REDUCTIONS ON
Entire Stock of Overcoats and Topcoats

LOOK AT THIS
Regular Price | Sale Price
$39.50 | $29.75
37.50 | 24.75
35.00 | 19.75
29.50 | 14.75
25.00 | 19.95

BELK BROTHERS
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

where he is now full Professor of Speech. Planning to give a feed immediately after examination. This, no doubt, will
bring out those that have not been attending so regularly. It is also planned to get the very best speakers
that can be obtained, those that will give some real live talks and instill more interest in the life-work of
the members of the Band.

On Friday, December 17th, Mr. Alton Bennett Clayton, 26, was married to Miss Mildred Lee Perkins, at Lumberton, N.C.

Prof. in Accounting—"No, Mr. Thompson, a shingle and its upkeep should not be charged under 'Roofing Expense'; simply say, 'Overhead.'"

Davidson is exceedingly fortunate in getting the services of Lew Sarett. His professorship at Northwestern University, and the multitude of
invitations which he receives make it impossible for him to fill them all.

Selects Officers
At the last meeting of the Ministerial Band, after a short lecture, Roland Simms, the retiring president, acted as chairman
while the following officers were elected for the new term: President, C.G. Davis; Vice-President, J.M. Murchison; Secretary, M.C. MacQueen; and
Treasurer, Roland Simms.

The Band has made a New Year's resolution to try to get every ministerial student at the college to attend
and take an interest in its meetings, and to arouse this they are planning to give a feed immediately after
examination. This, no doubt, will bring out those that have not been attending so regularly. It is also planned to
get the very best speakers that can be obtained, those that will give some real live talks and instill more
interest in the life-work of the members of the Band.

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.
Founded 1847
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
I.W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C.W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J.B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
R.A. DUNN, President
C.W. SUMMEY, Vice-President
M.T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

It’s a “hit”—everywhere!
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Right and left, they’re turning to natural tobacco taste!
It’s more than a nation-wide shift from one cigarette to another. Cigarette taste is changing. More and more men are
demanding a cigarette of natural tobacco taste. Men want a cigarette in which the character and goodness of fine tobaccos
are brought out to the full. What they want, they have found in Chesterfield—and this explains why Chesterfield is still,
as for four years past, America’s fastest growing cigarette. Such popularity must be deserved.
