THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1927

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN .......... Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES .... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
AXING BROWN .......... Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT ....... Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY ........ Managing Editor
CORE GAKB ............. Editor
W. L. LINGLE ........... Editor
F. C. WITHERS .......... Editor
T. T. JONES ............. Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH ....... Editor
R. G. GRADY ............ Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS ......... Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD ........ Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE ........... Assistant Business Manager
A. S. McALISTER ......... Subscription Manager
J. L. ALBRIGHT ......... Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY ........ Service Manager

Die Die JONES ........... President
A. N. BROWN ........... Vice-President
C. R. LAKE ............. Secretary-Treasurer

W. H. BAILEY
J. P. McBRYDE
TYREE DILLARD
B. F. McQUEEN
J. L. ELY
W. K. PRITCHETT
J. R. GRAHAM
B. WILSON
W. R. WEAVER
L. C. WADSWORTH
R. JOHN MORIARTY

EDITORIAL

A NEW STAFF

In stepping into an entirely new position in any type of work, there is always a sense of uneasiness and alarm which threatens to overwhelm the neophyte. This is particularly true when the predecessor has raised the standard of the position to such a height that it seems impossible for the beginner to reach it. During the last year, the general tone of The Davidsonian has been raised to a point far above that reached by any staff heretofore. This has been evidenced in a small way throughout the whole of the paper but has been particularly noticeable on the editorial page. The efforts of the retiring editor have borne fruit in practically every department of the paper until it seems almost impossible that the present staff will be able to reach the plane on which the paper has been conducted for the last nine months. But this is an incentive for more intensive work and real concentration on the betterment of the paper. It is this goal for which the incoming staff will strive to reach in its nine months of active work.

The general criticism which is most applicable to the various departments of The Davidsonian is that of lack of ingenuity and individual expression. This is a fault of a number of contemporary collegiate journals and is no less applicable to this paper. An attempt will be made during the coming year to eradicate this fault and to make The Davidsonian adhere more strictly to the ideals of collegiate journalism. In an issue of Scribner's several months ago, E. C. Hopwood made the statement “College newspapers give the impression of lack of inspiration.” This is pitifully true of this publication. The general theme seems to have been, “Well, what were they doing last year?” And the policy set by a staff preceding seems to have been considered as law. An attempt will be made this year to make this paper an actual representation of the student body now in college, their individual ideas and thoughts, rather than to continue in every small detail in the rut made years ago. As time moves on, it is quite necessary that men move with it. This is particularly true in a college or university where the student body is constantly changing and where the individuals are different in a number of ways every year. Unless the student publications advance with the personnel of the student body, enterprising students will organize to publish something akin to the tabloids, radically different and detrimental to all the students. The case of The Iconoclast at the University of Georgia is somewhat similar to this. Students formerly affiliated with the newspaper attempted to publish a more or less radical paper in which various accusations against the administration and the student body were made. Their attempt resulted in expulsion, but it is this surge towards the very radical and unusual which The Davidsonian will attempt to forestall by a small change of policy.

In several college papers, unimportant notices and irrelevant news articles give the whole publication a tone similar to that of a small-town weekly. This has been true to some extent in the columns of The Davidsonian and is necessary at times. The things which portray the real essence of life at Davidson are the articles which should be played up in the paper and the incoming staff will attempt to infuse a definite Davidson tone in every page of the publication.

Doubtless there will be some criticism when it is learned that the incoming staff proposes to discontinue the Peanut Parcher which heretofore has always occupied page three. But it is evident that it is extremely difficult to publish a page full of original jokes and wheezes every week and there will be no man in the student body next year who will be able to do this. There will appear, however, a column of humor written by a member of the staff every week. The page left vacant by the Peanut Parcher will offer more space for news stories and feature articles which should be more interesting to the members of the student body than a page of jokes copied from other collegiate publications or joke books.

It is very doubtful that the present staff will accomplish all which it sets out to do, but working on the ground already so well prepared by the outgoing staff some progress should be made towards the goal which every staff has set before them, an ideal college newspaper.

MANAGING EDITORS

With the present staff, The Davidsonian will change somewhat from the old policy of appointments. This year there will be three managing editors with no assistant managing editors, contrary to the former plan of having one managing editor and two assistants. This year the three managing editors, in cooperation with the athletic editor, will have charge of the makeup of the paper. The managing editors will have different duties to perform every week, differing from the old custom, which was to have the men do the same thing throughout the year. For six weeks, one of the managing editors will act as assignment editor but also assisting the other managing editors in making up the paper. The other two managing editors will alternate, one making up the front page one week while the other works on the inside pages, and the following week they will change positions. The athletic editor, however, will have page two the entire year since this position is slightly different from that of the other three men.

The necessity of making this change seems to the editor to be the fact that no rising junior should be placed under the other rising juniors on the staff. Since the appointment of the staff rests solely in the hands of the editor of the paper and the placing of the men in the various positions is only a personal estimate of their capabilities, it seems best to rate the four men as the same and leave the final choice of editor-in-chief in the hands of the student body, where it should rightfully rest. The four rising juniors mentioned above are the likely candidates for the position of editor-in-chief the following year and it is almost humanly impossible to determine earnestly at this time which of the four is more capable for the position. The hackneyed old quotation relating to the fact that it is human to err is only too true in the judging of the capabilities of a man and it is not at all unlikely that an editor should make a mistake in appointing his staff. And in refusing to place one candidate above another but giving all four an equal position on the staff, it is believed that the student body may be able to judge better the man for the position and the men themselves may reveal their capabilities more plainly.

MINOR CHORDS
(The following poem was written by Kathryn Worth, a former girl of Davidson and later editor of the Converse “Parley Vons.”)

LAD APRIL

April is no lady!
April is a boy,
Wearing torn green trousers
Made of corduroy,
Whistling through the woodland
Cheerily he goes,
Nothing but the brown dust
Covering his toes,
Lad, he cuts a slingshot
Out of tough greenwood,
Shoots at all the squirrels
In the neighborhood.
Clambers in the treetops,
Swings across the air,
Never hurts a robin
Or a bluebird there,
April goes a-fishing
With a small, green rod—
No one else goes with him,
Only, maybe, God.

Inquiring Reporter

Collegiate Notes

One of the finest golf courses in the country is maintained by the University of Iowa. The college time coach under the department of physical education. It was recently decided by the university to offer golf as a course.employs a full Physical Education college to give a full credit for this department. The seniors at William and Mary have revived an ancient custom by appearing at their classes, meetings, and the regular weekly Student Convocation meetings in their full regalia of cap and gown. The “Harvard Lampoon” in a recent issue broke down and confessed to the fact that the “Yale Record” is the oldest collegiate magazine in this country. The Yale publication dates from 1876. Despite the fact that the faculty at Princeton has deprived the students of their use of automobiles, some of them still refuse to walk. Several members of the student body have purchased roller skates and use them regularly. One determined undergraduate appeared with the sign on his back “Is this an automobile?”

Co-eds at the University of St. Lawrence have a club to prevent themselves from dating any member of the club who has two consecutive dates with one man. Such a member will be expelled from the organization. That students at the University of Missouri are equally as superstitious as some students at Davidson was proven recently when final examinations rolled around. One man carried eight aces in his pocket to every quiz. All of the members of a certain fraternity wore black while taking their exams. Various others carried horseshoes and rabbits’ feet. It would seem that if Doctor Charlie would advertise the success of his good luck omens during the last football season, he would have a flourishing business along about examination times.

At the University of Minnesota recently it was announced that an intensive course in embalming would be given under the head of the General Extension Division. The best dressed man at the University of South Dakota was awarded a trip to Chicago and New York to select various articles of clothing. Possibly some such feature for the winner of the Davidson Movie Contest will be announced soon. At the University of Minnesota, the legality of compulsory military training will be tested when thirty-six students expelled from the University for non-attendance at military drill classes will bring their case into court.

The student orchestra at the Mississippi A. and M. College recently gave a concert consisting of jazz numbers at the Methodist and Baptist Sunday School parties. Good dope for H. L. M. The first woman's college comic paper in the South will make its appearance soon in the form of a publication from M. S. C. W., at Columbus, Miss. This is the first attempt of any woman's college in the South to publish such a periodical. The magazine will be a feature in that it will exclude all “drunk” jokes as well as the “Who was the lady I seen you with last night?” and “It seems that there were two Irishmen” type of jokes.

Before the final selection of Washington as a national capital, a motion was introduced into Congress then convening in Philadelphia to the effect that Williamsburg, Va., be chosen as the national capital, says The Flat Hat, student publication of William and Mary College, at Williamsburg, Va. The bill also provided that thirteen hotels be built for the representatives from the various colonies, each colony to have a separate hotel.

More than eighteen thousand of the 26,813 students attending New York University work while attending this institution. Their aggregate earnings for the year is more than $13,000. The following novel was handed in recently by a student in the English department of one of our most famous universities. It is endorsed by Mr. Hugh Walpole on the grounds that it possesses clearness, preciseness, and all of the necessary characteristics of the novel.

One bull—Three toreadors
One bull—Two toreadors
One bull—One toreador
One bull

We note with an overwhelming feeling of sadness that, according to an announcement in chapel, Harry Goodykoontz has lost his “Religious Consciousness”. Some announcement should be made in chapel to the effect that there is a scoreboard on the baseball diamond in order that the question “What's the score?” will be asked only a few hundred times during a game.

(The inquiring reporter is honest in his admission that he took his life in his hands when he solicited answers to the question of the week from the nominees for Davidson’s May King.) To what do you attribute your popularity on this campus, and why do you think you are the most logical candidate for the aforementioned honor?

Bob Mitchell: My ears have given me my widespread notoriety, and I can more than qualify because of my ability as a hoss-back rider. (reporter's note: He has proof enough—just get him ‘tween you and the sun.)

Pee Wee McCracey: Gentlemen of the press, it is with a bit of misgiving that I condescend to place my hat in the ring, and do so with the strict understanding I am to receive a crown in return. I am 99 44-100 percent pure male, and (reporter's note: The other 56-100 percent is voice, and it’s not male.) will repay my supporters with telegraphed autographed photographs upon my entrance into Hollywood.

Bud Guthery: Altho I’m lanky, lean, and thin, I'm after that crown, and I won't give in. My face is fair, my brow is high; my collar’s tight, and so am I. I am the only man to rate, so pick me as your candidate. (There you are—just like that!)

Dave Fleming: My first picture (course I'll win) will be the refilming of “Fleming Youth”, and the second is “Mary’s Lamb”, in which I will feature as the wolf in sheepskin bathrobe. (I said lamb, kid, sheeplet—not motor appendage.) But my third, ah, my third, “The Science of Alimony”—I'll be the twenty-third figure at the top, reading left to front, pulling taffy and teeth in the side-show. Watch for me.

Ed Wilson: I beseech me unlikely, that from an ornithological standpoint, I should suffer as the losing candidate in the race. Not only can I achieve high C, but deep bottom hath for me no terrors. Rather would I die the death of a rag doll, than disappoint my loyal suspenders.

Dave Westbrook: My face is my fortune (thus begins Fortune’s fool), and I predict an overwhelming and devastating defeat to my unlucky opponents. (Reporter's note: I prophesy for thee a campaign exemplified in the immortal story of Descending Discards—Slido, Slippery, Fallee, Bumptum, thou possessor of an unending wealth of useless and erroneous misinformation.)

Harlée Branch: With the invention of the Vitaphone my chances have increased a hundredfold as the dark horse of this election. By whom, I ask you, am I surpassed in the noble art of silver-tongueing? Whom (he also asks us) could the honest, text-fearing students prefer to me, the outstanding light of oratory? (Reporter, noticing a lot, discovers he uses a solution of silver nitrate as a mouth-wash—hence his ability.)

Flora Mcdonald (Alger’s hero in “From Newsboy to Millions”): Although I am but a freshman (timidly), I won the beauty contest back home (modestly), and with the support of my loyal friends (hopefully), I intend to win this election (boastfully). (We suggest—seriously—application of a board—heavily.)

Russell Tucker: By combining the desirable characteristics of my opponents and eliminating their unfavorable ones, you find in me the result. I, and I alone, am the salvation of doomed Hollywood, and it is up to you, O beneficiaries of Men's Suffrage, to uphold the supremacy of Masculinity in supporting me. I'll give ‘em all de works!

Riggs McConnell: I won't be quoted! Yes, I'll admit I have plenty of ‘IT’ in reserve. No, I don't neck. Yes, I can kiss if I have to, but hope they won't expect that of me. And say, don’t publish any of this. (Note: I won't.)

McSwain: The triumphal entry of the greatest Caesar will be but a Gipsy parade when, by virtue of my trombone, I slide into Hollywood. My crowning glory is but remotely expressive of my nature, and, in addition to this, I can blow smoke rings, balance straws on my nose, quote poetry, wiggle my ears, and bray like a donkey. I am the man, vote for me!

Gordon Droopy Hudgins: It has always been my ambition to be a policeman, but I will gladly forego this to satisfy the intense yearning of my admirers to see me on the silver screen. I owe my popularity to my having taken R.O.T.C., rooming on the third floor of East, and not bragging about West Virginia. I am the ladies’ choice, I am underslung with ‘IT’, I am the delectable morsel for which screen vampires have been longing—vote wisely, my friends.

It is extremely unfortunate that some wealthy and enterprising alumnus doesn’t see fit to provide The Davidsonian with large piles of copy paper. It is sad but interesting to note with what rapidity a pile of one’s own paper is depleted when attempting to write stories for the paper. Skit, far-famed soda jerker at the village apothecary shop, reports that there has been an unusual sale of Slia-chum and Shiek Lure since the recent announcement about the movie contest. Who has the most prolific amount of "IT"?

There has been some comment as to whether the umpire of the games last week was really as belligerent as he sounded.