THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1927

—————————

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.99 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Editor by 12 p.m. Articles received after this hour will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
A. N. BROWN Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT Managing Editor
J. B. MORIA Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE Athletic Editor
B. A. WILLIAMS Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE News Editor
F. C. WITHERS Associate Editor
T. T. JONES Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY Assistant Business Manager
G. S. ATKINSON Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL Assistant Business Manager
P. H. HARRISON Subscription Manager
B. W. DILLON Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE Solicitor
B. F. GIBSON Solicitor

Reporters’ Club
W. H. BAILEY President
J. L. ELLIS Vice-President
J. R. GRAHAM Secretary-Treasurer
J. P. ANDERSON
R. W. McDERMOTT
W. H. BEST
W. B. McQUEEN
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D. MILLER
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. PRATT
R. F. JARRETT
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LONG
W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

COLLEGIATE NEWS SERVICE

Not so many moons have passed before all of the critics of would-be collegiate journals complained that the periodicals were writing too much on local happenings and incidents. These articles written in a dull way about uninteresting occurrences could not fail but bore the reader, if he read enough of it to be bored. Numerous articles were written to criticize this tendency in the collegiate newspapers, and now whether due to these articles or not the trend of collegiate periodicals seems to be in the opposite direction. Now news from colleges all over the country is introduced into the pages of every little paper at any institution in the country. And now again the critics arise to say that the college journals have too much of this.

Much good can be derived from an intelligent comparison of situations on various campuses about the country. This is accomplished when important problems are considered carefully. It can do no good whatsoever if random bits of disconnected news be combined from colleges thousands of miles apart. Sometimes news of this sort is used merely for filler, others use it intelligently and directed toward some useful purpose, and then others use it because they feel it is necessary to have news of other colleges within the pages of their paper.

Significant happenings on various campuses have a bearing on the attitude of the students of other colleges, directly and indirectly. This justifies in a way the exchange of news among the various colleges and accounts in a minor way for the preponderance of foreign items in college papers. There is the thing of carrying a custom too far, however, and it seems that some of our esteemed contemporaries are doing this. A college journal should never be completely filled with foreign news items and local news completely swamped by articles from other institutions.

With the above in view, it will be interesting to note the progress of the new collegiate news service in North Carolina which is now in its infancy. Whether this will tend to make the papers in the state worse than they are, or improve their standards will remain to be seen.

DR. GLENN FRANK SPEAKS

When so much criticism is being wafted about on the winds of journalism as to the method of teaching in the institutions a recent article written by Dr. Glenn Frank on this subject will be interesting. The article follows:

The least practical thing about the American university is the practical courses it gives.

I have just talked with the father of a young man who is sending the son to a university for training in its school of commerce. “Why, I've had graduates of schools of commerce come into my business,” he said, “who couldn’t manipulate a comptometer. Their heads were full of a lot of impractical economic bunk, but they had learned nothing practical. Wouldn’t they have been better off if they had plunged immediately into business?”

Here is the great American illusion—that early and exclusive specialization in the mastery of practical technique makes practical men.

I call to the witness stand the distinguished English scientist, Prof. Karl Pearson, whose mind was singularly free from romantic nonsense about education.

“I have been engaged for 16 years in helping to train engineers,” he said, “and those of my old pupils who are now coming to the front in life are not those who stuck to facts and formulae, and sought only for what they thought would be useful to them in their profession.

“On the contrary, the lads who paid attention to method, who thought more of proofs than of formulae, who accepted even the specialized branches of their training as means of developing habits of observation rather than of collecting useful facts, these lads have developed into men who are succeeding in life.

“And the reason of this seems to me, when considering their individual cases, to be that they could adapt themselves to an environment more or less different from that of the existing profession; they could go beyond its procedures, its formulae, and its facts, and develop new ones.

“Their knowledge of method and their powers of observation enabled them to supply new needs, to answer to the call when there was a demand, not for old knowledge, but for trained brains.

“The only sort of technical education the nation ought to trouble about is teaching people to see and think.

“What we want are trained brains, scouts in all fields, and not a knowledge of facts and processes crammed into a wider range of untrained minds.”

If we want our sons to be more effective in practical action after they leave colleges and universities, we must make our liberal education more real, rather than coaching our sons from the start in the manipulation of comptometers.

— Copyright, McClure Newspaper Syndicate.

QUOTH JESTING PILATE

An interesting editorial appeared in the New York World recently illustrating why there are so many misstatements and evident errors in the makeup of the ordinary paper.

“All of the newspapers agreed yesterday that A. K. had been slapped in the face by a young woman on the stage of the Century Theatre. As a matter of news-reporting, illustrative of the difficulty of obtaining agreement even in an eyewitness account of the same incident taking place publicly, it is interesting to note some variance as to details.

“These are descriptions of the manner in which the young woman struck her blow:

World: Slashed him viciously across the cheek with her gloves.
News: Struck him on the left cheek with the bouquet.
American: Dropped her flowers and slapped him in the face with her gloves.
Times: Slapped his face vigorously with her gloves three times.
Herald-Tribune: Beat him on the face and head with a half-dozen blows.
Evening World: Struck him across the face several times.
Vigorously and accurately slapped him.

“And this is what happened next:

American: A. K. reeled back.
Evening World: He stood unmoved.
News: He stepped back, maintaining a calm pose.
World: He stood still, but used his arms to wave back his friends.
Herald-Tribune: He stood still, with his arms thrown back.
Journal: He reeled.
Post: He remained unmoved.
Mirror: He reeled from the blow. His supporters were stemmed by a handful of royalists. Fists flew; noses ran red; shirts and collars were torn.

“These reports come from trained reporters, and no doubt they vary less than the reports which a vast majority of the spectators of this event brought away with them. All psychologists are aware of the fact that different people report the same event differently when they undertake to describe it in detail. The reporting of news is necessarily...

OLLAPODRIDA

Here are a few of the things that have happened in the broad domain of these United States and other countries during the past week. Draw your own conclusions.

For three days the heavens opened and the floods descended upon the New England States. Creeks became torrents, railroads vanished, bridges were swept away like driftwood. Montpelier, Vermont, was submerged under forty feet of water. The Lieutenant-Governor, seeking his home, was stunned and drowned. One hundred and fifty lives and $50,000,000 was the total cost. Once more the country responded. Fellow sufferers in Mississippi gave what little they had left, but secretly were glad that the cause of flood relief was strengthened.

Last July a book bearing...The title of “The President’s Daughter” came from the presses of The Elizabeth Ann Guild, Inc. The author, one Nan Britton, purported to be the childhood lover of former President Warren Harding and in a very bare-faced manner revealed their infatuation and the birth of a child. The press sought to avoid the book, gave it scant notice. Nevertheless, the tale was convincing and the publication ran through edition after edition. Over 300,000 copies have been sold. Harding relatives remained silent. Last week, however, the brother of the former president issued a statement to the press. He neither denied nor admitted the accusation that the child was the president’s and that he had failed to support her. However, he did state that the president was a lover of children and that his family felt certain that such a child would have been provided for in his will, regardless of her legitimacy. At the same time, he asked the Post Office Department to investigate the disposition of funds that have been solicited by the publishing company for the welfare of illegitimate children.

For many centuries, great men have been buried in Westminster Abbey in London. Now the earth beneath has reached its capacity. There is no room for future great men. For that reason, an addition or a new building seems necessary. Plans have been made but the clergy looks upon them with disfavor. Few people know that up until a hundred years ago, anyone could be buried in the abbey for as little as $270.

President Coolidge pressed a button and the new vehicle-tunnel from Manhattan to the mainland was opened. At once ferry stock declined and traffic congestion was relieved. At the same time, plans were being laid for the boring of a tunnel from the Rock of Gibraltar to Africa. The distance is twelve miles and the cost would be $48,000,000. Engineers have pronounced the task simple because of perfect submarine conditions. Spanish, British, and French capitalists are backing the project.

Two kinds of people often commit suicide: those who are dependent upon the world and make it unhappy and those who bring the world happiness but are unhappy themselves. In September, Thomas Allan Dwyer, a cripple, unable to help himself in any way, was admitted to Fordham University. The administration was reluctant but cripples are always good students. Kindly students helped him in all his duties for a month or more, then feeling the nausea too great, asked the administration to have him withdrawn. He returned to his home, spoke to his father and mother, and then at the first opportunity drank poison.

In a cheap New York hotel, a negro maid entered a room and found a man on his knees in prayer. Returning in a few minutes, she noticed that he had not moved. Reluctantly, she touched him, turned him over. Blood trickled from his temple. The man was Marceline Orbes, the most famous comedian ever known to Broadway. Pictures and costumes of his former success littered the room. In 1905, he was the feature attraction of the Hippodrome. In 1912, his fame had dwindled, his partner committed suicide. He left the stage, to return to hollow success in 1920. Sober faces no longer cracked at his witticisms.

In Chicago, a famed surgeon hypnotized his patient and operated. She felt no ill effects. The practice has never become general in the United States but it has been effectively used for years in France.

W. L. L.

Now and then an incident like the A. K. incident serves to remind us of the fact. “If a physical act taking place publicly before an audience in a New York theatre watching the single entrance onto the stage of a famous man cannot be reported without varying versions of the same simple set of facts, what happens when a reporter in Shanghai sits down to cable his newspaper word as to what 300,000,000 Chinese people are thinking about Bolshevism and Buddhism and Christianity this morning.” —The New York World.

Exploding Valve
Random Thoughts and Spontaneous Eruptions on Everything from Goal Posts to Gold Diggers

This practice of bumming... Wonder it is that more of us are not injured or killed while bumming rides. Three weeks ago, two Davidson men “landed” a ride in a car that a few miles further down the road smashed into another automobile and killed an occupant. The college men miraculously were unhurt. One week later, three men coming back from Charlotte were picked up by a very obliging driver. Too late the boys discovered that their kind friend was drunk, absolutely drunk, not pleasantly high. Fortunately, the driver stopped after a few miles to fight with a fellow occupant of the car to decide which would drive. He lost and the collegians reached the campus safely. We could hardly advocate college men becoming too dignified to bum rides, but we do most warmly beg, implore, and entreat them to do so cautiously. By day the danger is considerably lessened; at night the chances of us securing good rides become almost nil. We hope that no accident serious enough to make us refrain from this practice will happen. It might for some, not for us. We have stopped after being scared to death the other night.

“What are you going to do next year?” How many Seniors have definitely made up their minds. True it is, they may have indicated their preference but are they going to stick to it? How many, along about the first of May, will reluctantly accept a position teaching in some small school? Accept, we say, but only through kindness, for in reality they will have no other choice. They will of necessity have to do something. Not only have we a definite profession or trade in view but also have we taken any steps toward securing a position? Taking reliable figures gleaned from the pages of a registrar’s report in a college similar to Davidson, upon which we base our assumption, we would predict a heavy swinging over toward teaching during the spring months. This report to which we are referring showed that at the opening of the Senior year for 125 men, 120 of them had chosen their “life work.” Twenty percent were planning to teach. On May 1st, 44 percent were expecting to become teachers. When comes the time for you to make your decision are you going to be ready to start life’s work? Or will you be among those who switch at the last moment and “accept” anything that offers itself?

This spirit of ours... We have heard so much for years of the wonderful Davidson spirit. That is we used to hear of such a thing. Now to hear some talk it has completely vanished. But there we beg to differ with the powers-that-be, or, probably more accurately, the powers-that-rant-and-rave. The spirit is here with us but it is being manifested in different ways; the entire atmosphere of the college is changing; old institutions are disappearing; the faculty is being augmented each year by the addition of competent instructors; the personnel of the student body is metamorphosed almost completely; the old give way to the new. Because a man does not yell himself hoarse at football games is no indication that he does not possess “spirit;” because we have this year been reticent about attending so-called pep-meetings—we think they might better be termed “spiritualistic seances”—should not cause howls of consternation to be emitted from the throats of these same “powers.” As we say, the spirit is here with us, but it is being manifested in new ways. We are no longer a mad mob of lusty-throated rubes who are endeavoring to hoodwink others into believing that “spirit” is yelling. A man’s heart is the important consideration. We maintain that the hearts of the Davidson students still yearn for the betterment of the school. At this time last year, many were singing the praises of “Monk” and “Tex.” This fall we have been unable to locate a single, solitary note that even sounded like a chirp in the same vein. But then we were headed toward the state championship. Now we are fighting a losing battle to keep out of the cellar. Should we, then, fail to recognize the worth and ability of our coaching staff? They are the identical “miracle men,” the “wizards” of football of last season. Only they have not the material. And why? Because two good classes “athletically” came in succession but no others followed; because no high school stars were brought—not bought—to Davidson. Therein lies our trouble. Rumors are afloat that next year’s fresh class will include many “stars,” but what we are interested in is whether they captained the “miracle eleven of Paw Creek” or played on some reputable first-grade team. None want the scholastic standing so high as we—we might advocate adoption of College Entrance Board Examinations—but if Davidson is to retain her high standing in Southern athletics, we MUST HAVE ATHLETICS.