ONIAN | DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 17, 1927

DEBATING SCHEDULE TO INCLUDE MEETS WITH EIGHT FORENSIC TEAMS

Various Teams to Be Composed of Ten Debaters in all — Subjects For All Debates Announced by Wharton

What is probably the greatest debating schedule that has ever been arranged at Davidson for activities during the spring, has
been announced by Don Wharton, head of the Forensic Council. Two debates are being scheduled for the home platform, one
each for Queens College, and Greensboro, a northern trip, and finally a freshman debate with the University of North Carolina.
Provision has been made for 14 men to represent Davidson in this elaborate speaking program.

The first debate of the spring will be with Johns Hopkins, of Baltimore, March 25th, at Queens College, on the
query, “Resolved, That the United States government should adopt uniform marriage and divorce laws by national legislation.” Davidson will defend
the negative side of this question. Following this, Davidson will meet Emory University, of Atlanta, to debate the question, “Resolved,
That the United States government should recognize Soviet Russia.” This contest will be held at Davidson, March 29th, with the
home team again defending the negative. Next in order will be the northern trip, during which William and Mary, Gettysburg,
and Rutgers, will be met to debate the question, “Resolved, That the United States should cancel inter-allied war debts.” Dates
for this trip are April 1-7 inclusive. Duke University will be met by the team that debates with Johns Hopkins
with the same query being used again. This debate will probably be held April 29th, in Greensboro, and will be
an open forum-split team debate. On May 3rd Sewanee (University of the South) will come to Davidson to debate the
question, “Resolved, That the Volstead Act (Continued on page 3)

O. D. K. to Convene at Virginia Circle

Beginning today, and continuing through Saturday, February 19th, the Seventh National Convention of the Omicron Delta Kappa Honorary Fraternity convenes
at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va. The Omicron Circle of that institution are hosts of the association with convention
headquarters at the Colonnade Club, located on the University campus. All sessions of the convention will be held in Madison
Hall. The National Conventions of Delta Kappa Omicron are held bi-annually, the last several conventions having been held at William
and Mary College, Centre College, University of Richmond, Pittsburgh, and Washington and Lee University. The choice of the University of
Virginia for this year’s convention was an excellent one, the University, founded in 1819 by Thomas Jefferson, having been closely
interwoven, during its century of existence, with the intellectual life of a great section of the country. Also, it has
numbered on its Board of Visitors three Presidents of the United States — Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and James Monroe.
In addition, the City of Charlottesville and its County, Albemarle, contain many places of historical interest, including Monticello, the home
of Jefferson, its founder; which homestead he personally designed and built and which was the scene of his death. Visits
to this and other places of importance are scheduled for those attending.

The Davidson College Circle of the fraternity has sent as its delegate W. T. Covington, senior and prominent member of
the Delta Kappa Omicron circles; H. M. Austin, likewise an outstanding man on the campus and influential in student body
and high in O. D. K. circles, being alternate. (Continued on page 8)

Dr. M. C. S. Noble to Speak to College Students on Teaching as Life Work

“No man is a ‘born doctor,’ but any man who is willing to apply himself can succeed in the medical
profession,” declared Dr. J. N. Northington, prominent practicing physician of Charlotte and editor of The Southern Medical and Surgical Journal,
in the opening address of the Vocational Institute conducted by the Y. M. C. A. In the opening part of
his speech, Dr. Northington compared the medical profession with other professions. In connection with Law, he made the telling statement
that “Death cannot be stayed by argument.” He then enumerated the two classes of physicians. First are those seeking only
personal honor and fame; second, those seeking to help suffering humanity. Dr. Northington clearly revealed how the latter was the
real purpose of the medical profession. He then plunged into a brief survey of the recent history of medical science
and pointed out how many of our forefathers had died unnecessarily, for had their doctor known as much about the
medical science as we do today their useful lives would undoubtedly have been lengthened. He stated that medical science has
made more advances in the last century than in all the previous ages, and yet that the science is still
in its infancy. Much remains in the medical profession to be discovered, and many problems await solution. The need of
the hour is for highly specialized men. “While doctors may be compassionate towards suffering humanity, they are not running institutions
of charity,” and he went on to say that therefore a doctor should have a (Continued on page 8)

Fresh to Banquet in Charlotte Soon

The Freshman class has accepted an invitation from Mr. Clarence Kuester, Vice-president of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, to hold
a banquet at their hall about the middle of March. Various committees have been appointed to make arrangements for the
occasion.

Allan Frew, president of the class, was unanimously chosen to act as toastmaster. A meeting of the class was called
Monday morning by its president, to discuss plans for the banquet. Frew stated that permission had been obtained from the
proper authorities to have it. Several Charlotte men, as well as representatives of the Freshman class, will speak. Special music
will also be a feature of the evening. A committee composed of Dick Reynolds, chairman; Woodson Morris, and Frank Brown,
was appointed to decide upon a convenient date for the occasion. A transportation committee, composed of Brandon Smith, chairman, and
Tom Adams, was appointed. Raymond and Murray Christian were appointed as a program committee. Formerly no class has been allowed
to hold a public gathering of any kind until their Soph year. The three upper classes granted the petition of
Allan Frew, acting for the Freshman class, because the class had received (Continued on page 2)

Third Annual Award Takes Place This Year

FINAL AWARD LATER

Won by Harry Vance Last Year— Many Prominent Candidates For Trophy

Some time this week the Norris Athletic Trophy preliminary election will be held. The Norris Athletic Trophy for 1926-27 will
be awarded at Commencement, 1927, to the student who distinguishes himself in athletics during the present scholastic year. The rules
for the contest are few and simple. To be eligible for the Trophy the student must have attained a passing
grade on at least 70 percent of his scholastic work carried during the year. The winner will be determined by
a popular vote of the student body. The election will be run in two parts, the three men receiving the
highest number of votes in the primary, held this week, will be voted on later during the election of the
officers of the student body in which every student may vote.

The Trophy competition was originated at Davidson three years ago and to be awarded the Norris Athletic Trophy is the
highest honor an athlete can receive. The winners for the two preceding years were Flake Laird for 1924-25, and H.
L. Vance for 1925-26. Both of these men were three-letter men. Laird was captain of the basketball team, and a
very prominent member of the baseball and football teams. Vance was one of the mainstays of the football, baseball, and
wrestling teams, an all-state guard and equally as good on the other two teams. The Norris Athletic Trophy is presented
(Continued on page 6)

Death Visits Relatives of Prominent Students

David Frierson Dies in Cuba — Dr. Justice Accidentally Shot at Hendersonville

Two student families were visited by death. David Frierson, a brother of Jos and Henry Frierson, and Dr. Z. K.
Justice, father of Frank Justice, passed away. Word was received here Friday of the death of David Frierson, a brotherof
Joc last week. Henry Frierson, who are students at Davidson, the seven brothers, serving his country in the Marine Corps
in Cuba. The detachment with which young Frierson, who was 18 years old, and the youngest son, was registered was
returning from a period of service in Nicaragua, having been sent there recently by the United States to assist in
quelling the uprising in that country. They left immediately upon hearing of the death, for their home in Heardmont, Ga.,
but on reaching Chester, S. C., they received a telegram saying that the body would not reach the United States
until February 23rd. On receiving this information they returned to Davidson and will go to their home next week for
the funeral. Dr. Zoro K. Justice, 55 years old, a prominent dentist of Davidson and a former resident of Henderson
County, was killed last Saturday afternoon. While visiting at the home of his mother at Dana, near Hendersonville, Dr. Justice
went squirrel hunting in the woods nearby. When climbing over a fence, his gun became entangled in the wire and
was discharged. The shot entered his right ear, blowing away practically all the right side of his head and face.
He is survived by his father, mother, wife, three children, one brother, and four sisters. Frank Justice, a son, is
a senior in Davidson at the present time.

Davidson Athletes Make New Records

Smashing four college records, last year’s Wildcat cinder path stars set a phenomenal mark on the Davidson oval. Three of
the four college records were broken in a single meet with the University of North Carolina, with Captain-elect Harry Goodykoontz
and Clement Penn taking off the honors. Captain-elect Goodykoontz, one of Davidson's track men, thrilled the great crowd of spectators
when he lowered the college record for both the 100- and the 220-yard dashes. Clement Penn, with characteristic ease and
endurance, clipped several seconds off the record for the two-mile run, the previous record having withstood the ravages of competition
for a number of years. In the spectacular state meet, when a small group of only six Davidson stars triumphantly
carried off the honors of fourth place from a large field of colleges, all of which entered between 20 and
40 contestants, Hamp Jennings soared up to the clouds both literally and figuratively by pole vaulting a half inch higher
than any other Davidson man has ever done before. The great sprinting of Goodykoontz in every meet was the sensation
of a successful season. This flashing speedster never failed to place in a race during the entire season. To him
goes the honor and merit of lowering the 100-yard dash to 10 seconds flat, and the two-twenty dash to 22
seconds. The old records were 12 1-2 seconds for the century, held by Gilchrist, '15, and 22 3-5 seconds for
the two-twenty, held by H. P. Murray, '21. Clement Penn lowered the record held by McBryde, '24, of 10:33 1-5
in the two-mile run to 10 minutes and 25 2-5 seconds. Penn several times lowered his own record in practice,
but this was regarded as unofficial as it was not in a regular meet.

Davidson Battles

Guilford and Lenoir-Rhyne Teams Fall Before Fast Onslaught of Wildcats—Rhyners Prove to be Tough Foe

The Wildcats had their hands full when they met the fast Lenoir-Rhyne quintet last Saturday night, but old Wildcat spirit
did its part, and the local team came out on the long end of the 31 to 27 score. The
game was full of fouls, both teams fought hard, and it was nip and tuck from the first to the
last whistle. The first part of the first half was especially close, but the Wildcats drew themselves together just before
the whistle for the end of the half, and were leading 16 to 9 when this period was over. Lenoir-Rhyne
fought back in the third period and soon tied the Wildcats, the score being 18 to 18 at one time.
The game was so closely contested that the outcome remained in doubt until just before the final whistle when a
fast spurt enabled the Wildcats to come out on top. Harrison's superb floor work was the outstanding piece of work
of the evening. Hodge, Lenoir-Rhyne guard, was high scorer with 11 points, and Kiser and Wilson shared honors with him.
Wilson's excellent guarding was also a high spot in the game. The visitors seemed unable to work around him, and
his exceptional work in breaking up passes and shots saved the local team a great many points. The line-up was
as follows:

Davidson: Position: Lenoir-Rhyne
Calhoun (9) F Hodge (11)
Wilson (6) F Kiser (9)
Hood (2) C Overcash (4)
Harrison (3) RG Simpson (6)
Brown (4) LG Shuford (2)

Substitutes: Davidson: Crawford. Lenoir-Rhyne: McAulay.

The Davidson Wildcat quintet had little trouble...

Student Body Challenged by Bishop Mikell to Renew Religious Allegiance

Sophs to Revel in Charlotte Tuesday

As a date for its banquet, the Sophomore class has selected Tuesday, February 22nd. Instead of being held at the
Chamber of Commerce, as has been the custom of successive classes for many years, this year’s celebration will take place
on the roof of the new Johnson building, in all the magnificence and splendor of one of Charlotte’s newest and
most sophisticated roof gardens. This banquet is the main event of the Sophomore year and is one of the best-remembered
occasions of cheer and good-fellowship of the entire college life. As the principal speaker of the evening, the Sophomores have
been fortunate in securing Dr. Rowan, General President of the Alumni Associations. He will be ably seconded by Dr. McConnell
and Professor Bailey, of the faculty. Other talks of lighter character will be made by prominent men of the campus,
the following of whom will be guests at the banquet: Jim Pinkney, president of the student body; Ernest Bohannon, president
of the Athletic Association; Bill Christian, president of the “Y”; Lynn McClain, president of the Junior class; Jim Appleby, “Y”
secretary; Ernest Milton, alumni secretary; and Allan Frew, Freshman president. Dick Flynn is to be toastmaster and will wield the
whip over the Assembly and have general charge of the merriment. The banquet will begin at 7:00 o'clock and plans
have been made to go in a body to one of the prominent theatres after its conclusion.

“Religion is the giving of one’s self to a noble leader. Who will hear the call and who will follow
it?” questioned Bishop Mikell, of Atlanta, Ga., as he issued a challenge of personal religion to Davidson men at vespers
last Sunday evening. Bishop Mikell is one of the outstanding leaders of the Episcopal Church, having charge of the work
in the state of Georgia. Dr. Arbuckle, who introduced him, told of his work in religious fields and said that
his message would be all the more valuable, as he is in close connection with college men, serving as he
does as president of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity. “Had the apostles not followed Christ we would never have heard
of them, but they would have remained toiling in the purple sea, unhonored and unsung.” Saul was cited as an
example of one who did not want to be called when the Lord sent word to him, but finally asked
what he should do and obeyed the call of Christ. “God has a work which only each one of us
can do, coming to us when He puts the thought of serving Him in our mind; when He opens up
ways of service and when He opens up to us ways of salvation,” the Bishop said. “Salvation is finding out
what our way is and making good. Salvation is service. The best that has ever been offered to man was
when Christ said to come after Him. Salvation is self-committal.” “If one would follow Jesus Christ there must be self-sacrifice.
To follow Christ does not mean to be a weakling but that the man must know where to find strength.
He must labor for the triumph of the Cross over all...
