¢ TieDA VI SONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 6, 1927 No. 4
Davidson Trounces Florida in Decisive Battle

Many Institutions Use Textbooks Edited Recently by Two Davidson Professors

Dr. Shewmake’s English Textbook is Now Being Used at Davidson

NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED

Revised Edition of Dr. Vowel’s Scandinavian Text Published

Davidson professors have not been inactive in the past few years in regard to the editing and writing of textbooks.
Various colleges and universities throughout the country are now using, as accepted texts, certain of those written by members of
the Davidson faculty. Of recent interest we have texts by Dr. E. F. Shewmake, professor of English, and by Dr.
Guy R. Vowles, professor of German language and literature.

Dr. Shewmake, in collaboration with Dr. C. L. Carmer, of the University of Alabama, has just had published a textbook
on English composition, titled “College English Composition.” It is a handbook of writing and speech, and primarily for use in
Freshman English courses.

The authors, realizing the need for a first-year book in English that should be clear, direct and simple, have written
such a book, and one that will give first-year college men confidence to go on with their work and the
desire to master spoken and written English. The aim of “College English Composition” is to put before the student in
clear, concise, practical form what he needs to know concerning the chief units of composition; the general forms of social
and business communications; the effective oral use of English; the technique of verse; the mechanics of writing; certain troublesome points
in grammar; and good usage in detail; with particular reference to the avoidance of common errors of speech and writing.
The student is challenged to think for himself and to take pride in correct and forceful expression.

(Continued on page 8)

“Y” Plans To Bring Reputed Sprinter To Davidson Soon

Davidson is soon to have the rare privilege of hearing a world-famous athlete: Charles William Paddock. Paddock is to be
on the campus one day during the last week in October, the exact date having not yet been definitely settled.
It is possible that he will arrive in time to give a special exhibition of his speed on the track,
before his lecture in Shearer Hall. His lecture subjects are: “The Spirit of Sportsmanship;” “The Man on the Mark;” “The
World At Play,” and “Play the Game.”

Since 1920 Charlie Paddock has established world sprint records 17 different times, his last victory being in July, 1927. He
has been a world champion in one of the most strenuous of all sport branches for seven years. This in
itself is an amazing record and is due mainly to two things: clean living and honorable sportsmanship.

Paddock used to spend his summers as a cowboy on a western ranch; he saw overseas service during the war;
he has taken part in several feature pictures on the Hollywood movie lots; he has had considerable experience in dramatic
work, and for the past several years has been a regular contributor to a string of leading newspapers and magazines.
He made a tour of the world in 1924.

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. Martin Attends Log College Fete

Dr. William J. Martin left here Saturday to attend the 200th anniversary celebration of the founding of Log College, near
Philadelphia. Dr. Martin was one of the principal speakers at the anniversary dinner, and spoke on the subject, “The Common
Aims of the Christian Colleges.”

Log College was founded near Philadelphia in 1727 by Rev. William Tennent, a Presbyterian minister who had just immigrated to
America from Ireland. The college, which was first established in a small log cabin, was the pioneer institution in the
Christian education movement in America, and was the forerunner of Princeton University and the Princeton Theological Seminary. The 200th anniversary
celebration lasted for three days, and was attended by leading Presbyterian educators from all parts of the country.

Before leaving Dr. Martin gave in chapel a brief resume of the history of Log College. He, as the president
of Davidson College, had been asked to attend and to take part in the exercises. This was due to the
fact that when Log College was founded there was only one branch of the Presbyterian Church in America. Therefore Davidson,
as a Presbyterian school, was entitled to help celebrate.

(Continued on page 2)

O.D.K. Will Sponsor Tap Day as Neophytes Are Chosen Next Wednesday

Program Marks Tenth Anniversary of Delta Circle

FALL BID DAY

Campus Leaders From Two Upper Classes Are to be Tendered Bids

The dignified and impressive Tap Day program of the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, will
be solemnized on Wednesday morning, October 12th, in the presence of the entire student body. It has been the custom
of the local chapter for the past few years to hold two bid days each session of college, one in
the fall and the other in the spring. At this time members of the Junior and Senior classes who have
distinguished themselves as leaders in some phase of college activities are invited to membership in O. D. K. The president
of the local organization customarily presides over the exercises. A faculty member of O. D. K. will probably make a
short speech preceding the bidding. The bidding itself is performed in a very ceremonious manner. Some member of the organization
comes from the stage and with a tap upon the shoulder invites the newly bid member to follow him to
the stage, where he is welcomed by the officers. Tap Day has grown to be a time of great interest
and importance at the college. The ceremony used by this circle is not common.

(Continued on page 7)

Students’ Photos Taken for Annual

Work on the 1928 Quips and Cranks has begun in earnest. Mr. Walter G. Neblett, the photographer for White's Studios,
arrived at Davidson several days ago, and immediately began his work. This week, most of the individual pictures of the
student body will be taken, and during the last part of his stay, Mr. Neblett will take the pictures of
the football team, the literary societies and various other groups. The individual pictures will be taken at the same place
they were taken last year, the Ku Hall. Blanks were distributed in chapel recently, and the students were asked to
check the periods they had vacant. Cards have been sent out with the date and the time which each student
is asked to be at Ku Hall, and it is hoped by the Annual staff that the student body will
co-operate with Mr. Neblett by being on time when their sittings are scheduled. Anyone who has not filled out a
schedule may obtain a schedule by turning in 204 Watts, or Witt Hancock, in 32 Georgia.

The Annual is carrying out the policy of the last year Year Book. Last year was the first year that
the two lower classes had their individual photographs in the Quips and Cranks. The addition of these to the upper
classes just double.

(Continued on page 2)

Combined Demonstration and Address Given by Two Speakers at Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service

New Students Examined by Psychological Tests

Idea of Tests at Davidson Originated by Dr. Lingle

The college carried out its usual custom of giving the incoming Freshman class a psychological test last Friday afternoon. The
results of the tests given have not yet been obtained, due to the extreme amount of work in grading the
tests. The idea of psychological tests at DavidsonCollege originated at a meeting of the State Teachers’ Association of North Carolina,
held in Asheville in November of 1919. Dr. T. W. Lingle, on the program of the higher education section, gave
a talk on college entrance requirements. Preparation of this talk led to the study of psychological experiments conducted by Thorndike
at Columbia University, Calvin at Brown University, and several others. At this meeting, Dr. Lingle announced that upon his return
to Davidson he would introduce a motion at the following faculty meeting calling for psychological tests to be given to
all new students within 30 days after entering school. The motion to this effect was readily passed by the faculty,
and the tests were started the following year, 1920. Dr. Frazer Hood was made chairman of the committee to conduct
the tests. We may be proud of the fact that Davidson was the pioneer in this movement among all Southern
schools and colleges. The next college after Davidson to adopt these tests was Agnes Scott. Two years later, the University
of Virginia experimented with these tests.

That the game of golf and the game of life have the same prerequisites to success was the theme of
Dr. L. W. Jarman and Dr. Hamilton McCoy at “Y” vespers Sunday evening. Immediately preceding their combined demonstration and address
was a song service conducted by P. J. Garrison and Scripture reading by C. C. Trabue. Dr. Jarman was fittingly
introduced by Prof. K. J. Foreman. The former in turn introduced Dr. McCoy as the first speaker of the evening.
Dr. McCoy demonstrated the manner of making a correct golf stroke, emphasizing three essentials in any golfer’s success. To hit
the ball squarely, one must have perfect coordination, absolute concentration on the task at hand, and naturalness, and the importance
of the backswing was his concluding statement of explanation.

Dr. Jarman, using Dr. McCoy's outline, related the game of golf to the game of life. The coordinated team, institution,
or individual is the one that wins. The world today is calling for men developed in a proper measure physically,
mentally, spiritually, and socially. A one-sided development will result in defects which will certainly show up in times of testing.
Concentration on life’s task is quite as essential as concentration on hitting the ball. Choose your field of endeavor and
then stick to it—follow it through. Doing the job the best it can be done and keeping on doing it
was Woodrow Wilson’s rule of life. The old but very sound principle of going the second mile applies in business
as well.

Authority on India to Give Lecture Here Soon

Mr. Joachim Comes at Request of Faculty Committee

On Wednesday evening, October 12th, Davidson men will have the privilege of hearing Mr. M. H. H. Joachim, the foremost
living authority on India, its religions, literature, and philosophy. Mr. Joachim comes here at the request of the faculty committee
on Public Lectures, and in securing Mr. Joachim, the committee feels that it is bringing a man who will have
a message of intense interest to those who hear him. Mr. Joachim is a native of Calcutta and a graduate
of the famous University of Calcutta. He is a profound scholar, a constructive thinker, and a writer of exceptional brilliance.
During his lectures in this country this season, he has won for himself an enviable reputation as a man of
great personal charm and is regarded as an accomplished public speaker. Mr. Joachim is a real student of conditions in
India and can present in a very entertaining way the story of his country’s relations with Great Britain, the rise
of the nationalist movement, the advent of Gandhi, and the economic situation. His works on the various Hindu philosophies are
accepted all over the world as the leading authorities on these subjects. Kipling’s “East is East and West is West,
and never the twain shall meet,” is refuted by the life of Mr. Joachim. He combines the caste system, the
women of India, and the various Hindu philosophies in his lectures.

Flinn and Grey Get First Touchdown of Season to Defeat Floridians, 12-0

Visitors Outplay Heavier Team During Entire Game

8,000 See Game

Whole Southland as Well as ’Gators Surprised at Onslaught of Wildcats

The proverbial dope bucket suffered what was probably one of the most humiliating days of its contrary existence when the
Davidson College Wildcats romped away with a 12-0 victory over the University of Florida Gators at Gainesville, Saturday afternoon. Practically
all of the many interested fans had predicted a drubbing for the Wildcats, who were too fast in their tearing,
clawing, ripping tactics for the heavy Florida team, which wilted away when the Davidson team opened up their drive in
the second quarter. This was one of the games added to the Davidson schedule in their process of widening their
field of play, and down in the Sunshine State they are talked about as a team that came from somewhere
up in North Carolina, and a thin red line that seemed to be built of steel, so hard was it
to break.

Florida opened the game with a rush, and the Davidson team immediately assumed a defensive attitude as the 'Gators went
for nice gains through the line, which finally forced them to kick. The Wildcats could do nothing with the line
of Florida, and did very little gaining, and woke up to find the ball on their own five-yard line as
the first quarter ended. As the second period opened, the distance was lessened by two yards, and things had a
very gloomy outlook for the supporters of the Wildcats, but the ’Gators passed over the goal line on the last
down and the ball was Davidson's on her own 20-yard marker. At this crucial period, Harrison broke through for a
17-yard gain which acted as a catalyst for the team.

Seniors to Adopt Duo-Color Blazer as Class Insignia

Red and black blazers will be worn by this year’s Senior class. So it was decided at a recent meeting
of the Senior class, by a very large majority. They will have the college colors and will be in vertical
inch and three-quarter stripes. A committee was appointed to send out bids for prices, and as they have not all
been considered yet, the exact cost of the blazers is not yet known. For the past several years, it has
been the custom for the Senior classes to have some form of distinctive garb, not only that they may be
recognized and differentiated from the rest of the student body in at least one particular, but that they might have
some more tangible reminder of college and campus life. It has never been sought to enforce each Senior’s buying or
procuring whatever the article may be; as a rule, however, most of the students have been glad to comply with
the fashion as decided upon by a majority vote of the class.

Derbys and canes were affected by last year’s class, that of '27. The Senior class before them had blazers as
the present Senior class has decided upon. The difference between the two classes’ blazers is that those of ’26 were
blue and gold colored ones, while those of this year are, as has already been stated, red and black, the
Wildcat colors.
