THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 20, 1927

She—"You are have.”
Soup Campbell—“What, handsome?”
She—"No, always broke.”

A woman's most peculiarly made up,
She's faithful, deceitful, keen-sighted and blind.
She's crazy, simple, she's cruel, she's kind;
She'll lift up a man, she'll cast a man down;
She'll call him her king and then make him her clown.
You fancy she’s this, but you find that she’s that,
For she'll play like a kitten and bite like a cat.

She—"Oh, Roger, I heard you made the football team at Davidson.”
Roger Hall—"Yes, I do the aerial work.”
She—"What's that?”
Hall—"I blow up the footballs.”

Poor Richard Again
Early to bed, and early to rise
Keeps one’s roommate from wearing one’s ties.

Father of Date—"Young man, would you mind calling me when you leave tonight? I’ve got to be up early in
the morning.”

Covington—"Does your new play have a happy ending?”
Wharton—"Yes, everybody was glad when it was over.”

Mrs. X—"How’s your husband getting along with golf?”
Mrs. Y—“Just fine. The children are allowed to watch him now.”

Tramp—"Good lady, can’t you give me a piece of cake?”
Lady—"Cake! For you?”
Tramp—“Ordinarily, but this is my birthday.”
Isn't bread good enough?

No Angler
King (after quarrel with Sweetie)—“Well, there’s just as many fish in the pond as have been caught.”
She—"Maybe so. But you'll never catch any of them with that line you have.”

Professor’s Wife—"Dear, what are you opening that can with?”
Professor—“Why, a can opener. What did you think?”
Professor's Wife—“Well, from what I was able to hear I thought you were opening it with prayer.”

Preston—“Every time I kiss you I’m a better man.”
She—“Oh, you little angel.”

Sims—"Professor, isn’t there some fable just like the doll I used to have?”

Professor in Sociology—"Suppose a man were drowning and yelled for help. His wife hears him and immediately runs toward the
bank. Now, if there is no altruism, why did she run to the bank?”
Crinkley—"To get his insurance, sir.”

Pee-Wee—"Do you keep cigars?”
Skit—"No, we sell them.”
Pee-Wee—"Well, you can keep the one I was going to buy from you.”

The Bible teacher was giving an oral review on the book of Proverbs. “Tell me the word,” he said, “that
fits in here: ‘Cleanliness is next to ’.”
Zeb Vance scratched his head for a moment and then replied: “Impossible, sir.”

A Scotchman’s wife went on an excursion with a crowd of friends. That afternoon a newsboy was heard to cry
out, “Extra! Special Edition! Read all about the big excursion wreck! Forty lives lost!” A friend who was walking with
the Scotchman asked: “Why, McGibbs, why don’t you buy a paper and see if your wife is one of the
victims?”
“Ah, I’ll just wait till the final edition,” replied the Scotchman, “and get the baseball scores, too.”

We are told that Dumb Dora, who thought the Hunchback was a football picture, now has a sister who thinks
the famous Nelson of maritime fame has a grandson they call Half.

Mrs. X—"Your son must be the idol of the family.”
Mrs. Y—"Yes, he’s been idle for twenty-one years.”

Old Maid Teacher—"What tense is, ‘I am beautiful’?”
Little Willie—"Past, ma'am.”

Brown—"Look here, young fellow, this is the third time I've had to ask you for that five dollars I loaned
you.”
Black—"Oh, but just think how many times I had to ask you before you'd let me have it.”

The Bootblack—"Light or dark, sir?”
Absent-minded Prof.—"Oh, it doesn’t matter, but please don't give me the neck.”

Which makes us think of the absent-minded cook who boiled his watch and looked at an egg for two minutes.

Ready for Charity
What could be more foolish than a dumb girl turninga deaf ear on a blind date. Punctuate this sentence: Are
knot holes holes or are they not holes.

[Inspecting and admiring the new car] “Speaking of fine tobaccos — Have a Camel.”

A NICETY of blending, a friendly cordiality of flavor, an inherent goodness that thrills from the first puff to the
last — that’s Camels. The warmth of golden sunlight on autumn fields gleams in their smoke. Camels are an expression
of all that is the finest.

© 1927 Camel quality and Camel excellence are recognized wherever smokers gather. The best of Turkish and Domestic tobaccos are
blended in this famous cigarette. For this reason, Camels have consistent goodness. For this reason, they never tire the taste,
no matter how liberally you smoke them; never leave a cigaretty after-taste. And wherever experienced smokers gather, wherever the conversation
turns to tobacco — to the world’s best — someone is sure to say: “Speaking of fine tobaccos... Have a
Camel!”

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

about an ass disguising himself in a lion's skin?”

Prof.—"Yes, you have the same thing now in the college, except the college uses the sheepskin.”

REPORTERS’ CLUB (Continued from page 1)

The Reporters’ Club first came into existence at Davidson several years ago and has always maintained an enviable reputation on
the campus and in connection with like organizations of other schools because of its steady and almost professional manner of
contributions to a paper such as The Davidsonian, which, it will be recalled, for two recent successive years was voted
the best college paper in North Carolina by student representatives of other state college publications. Again this year that honor
is being worked for, and the Reporters’ Club, as in the past, are due no small part of the credit
if such is attained.

The following are members of the club: W. T. Covington, C. C. Murchison, W. T. Davis, John Moriarty, A. N.
Brown, J. L. Ely, Louis Wadsworth, Tyree Dillard, W. R. Weaver, C. R. Lake, R. R. Kane, John Gwin, T.
T. Jones, R. H. McIlwaine, J. P. McKnight, A. M. Sparrow, B. A. Wilson, and B. F. McQueen.

Beneath these stones repose the bones Of Theodosius Grimm; He took bad beer from year to year And then his
bier took him.

Our present system of punctuation was devised by Aldus Manutius, a Venetian printer, in the latter part of the fifteenth
century.

Evolution
1870—A gig and a gal.
1920—A flivver and a flapper.
1950—A plane and a jane.

THE BEST PLACE
Wildcat Cafe
AND FOOD
GIVE US A TRIAL
15 E. Trade St.

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Campus Representative, R. B. MCQUEEN

FELLOWS! You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford

The New VICTROLA
Selz Shoes, Adler Collegian Clothes
Complete line of High-Grade Haberdashery

ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Prices $95 to $1,000

THE BEST PLACE TO EAT
Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

CREDENZA, $300.00
213 N. Tryon St.
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
Charlotte, N.C.
