4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

Business Manager
VERNON S. BROYLES

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. LINGLE - Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN - Assistant Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS - Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB - Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY - Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN - Exchange Editor
H. L. SHELBY - Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN - Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON - Assignment Editor
Feature Editor
T. T. JONES

BUSINESS STAFF
F. L. DOUGLASS - Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD - Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE - Assistant Business Manager
J. A. McALPINE - Subscription Manager
W. L. ALBRIGHT - Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY - Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KAN
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
A. N. BROWN
R. H. McILWAINE
J. L. ELY
J. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH
A. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD
B. WILSON
J. R. WEAVER
B. F. MCQUEEN

EDITORIAL

A tombstone is the only thing that flatters a man more than a college annual.

To some, college is just a four-year intermission in the dance of life.

Our idea of a total loss is for a young man to write sonnets to his loved one’s eyebrows, while she is at home plucking them.

Most of the shadows of life are caused by standing in our own sunshine.

The greatest enemy to progress is not ignorance and vacuity, it is wrong information.

THEY’RE COMING BACK

A story carried elsewhere in this issue announces the concurrence of athletic authorities and coaches in a contract, which assures Davidson of the valuable services of its two beloved gridiron mentors for another five years. Students, alumni, and faculty rejoice in the peculiar good fortune of the college in retaining the services of two such competent athletic directors. Rumors to the effect that Coaches Tilson and Younger would not return to Davidson after the close of the present college term are thus discredited. After the successful manner in which these two men have handled the athletic destinies of the college for the past three years, their loss would have been keenly felt.

Coaches Younger and Tilson arrived at Davidson in the fall of 1923, when athletics were noticeably at a low ebb. Davidson men had begun to speak of athletic championships only by way of reminiscing. With a meagerness of material that seemed hopelessly inadequate to cope with that of the larger colleges and universities of the section, the two coaches started on a career which was destined to land the Wildcats on the championship pedestal of North Carolina in four brief years. Perhaps it was the enthusiastic manner in which the two mentors took charge of things, perhaps it was their unstinted devotion to the best interest of the college, perhaps it was their willingness to give their all for the team that inspired the Davidson athletes on to better things. It would be hard for an outsider to say just what was responsible for the marked improvement demonstrated by the Wildcats under the direction of Messrs. Younger and Tilson.

Younger and Tilson have won a championship that has brought glory to the college, they have demonstrated to the world that grit and courage can overcome the most discouraging odds, but, what is finer still, they have instilled the principles of true sportsmanship into every man with whom they have worked. Inspiring leadership, unbounded ability, untiring labor—those are the three qualities that have won for Younger, for Tilson, and for Davidson.

AFTER GRADUATION—LIFE!

There is a widespread notion among college men that success in college bears but slight relation to success after graduation. The notion persists in the popular mind that most of the world’s leaders were college loafers, that most of the great geniuses were kicked out of school only to turn the laugh on their teachers by their later achievements. Thus, it happens, that many students drift along in college year after year—skimming through—learning nothing except “how to get by.” They laugh at scholastic failures, whispering to themselves “Why worry. When I’m out of school, I'll show these old fogies what real success is.” This attitude of indifference, of laziness and of procrastination on the part of the great majority of students is directly responsible for many college failures.

In the light of this, it is interesting to summarize (as Dr. Glenn Frank, president of the University of Wisconsin, has done), the results of a study made by Edgar Shuster, of Galton Eugenics Laboratory in London. During the last fifty years, of all the men who have been graduated in law from Oxford University with less than first-class honors, not a single man has become a cabinet member. Of the ninety-two first-class men, four have been called to seats in the cabinet. Besides these four cabinet members, forty-two other men out of the ninety-two first-class honor men have achieved eminence in the political counsel of the British empire. Of the two hundred and seventy-one men who took fourth-class honors, not a single man has achieved national distinction in law or in statesmanship. Two hundred and twenty-six of these fourth-class honor men have remained in the common ranks of the unsung and unhonored. Of the men who took second-class honors, thirty-three per cent have become distinguished, but not one of them has achieved the highest rank in public life. Of the third-class honor men, only twenty per cent have achieved moderate distinction. Of the fourth-class honor men, only twenty per cent have achieved moderate distinction. Of those who barely pulled through, only sixteen per cent have been heard from in public affairs. To put it another way, of the six hundred and thirty-four men who have been graduated in law from Oxford during the fifty-year period studied by Mr. Shuster, nearly one-half of the first-class honor men have become distinguished leaders in the life of England and her empire.

These figures apply beyond the gates of Oxford. By and large, the loafer in college does not become the leader in the commonwealth. The man who makes high marks in college stands the best chance of making his mark in the world. The “skimmer” has learned too well the lesson of “just getting by”—he goes on skimming through life.

So many new types of universities are springing up overnight that a marathon runner is needed to keep up with the projects. Right after a skyscraper university and a floating university comes the announcement of an air university. The lessons will be broadcast by radio and students will study as far away as they can tune in. It will be as free as air, for no tuition can be charged. You can start in the middle of the semester, according to the Los Angeles Times, and quit any time you feel your little cup is full. No entrance examinations bar the doors and nobody can be “fired.” Its campus will be the sun, moon, and stars, and its commencement will be attended by the whole universe. How diplomas are to be distributed is not told in the news dispatch. Possibly they will just “give them the air.” They will use static for a college yell, and we suppose their football will be wholly an aerial game.

Many students at the Texas Agricultural and Mechanical College have been helped by one of the most unique banking businesses in Texas. It is conducted by an Association of Former Students and in 1926 made a total of 902 loans, an increase of 580 over the previous year. Nearly half of the student body were borrowers upon a strictly business basis and at 6 per cent interest. Transactions during the year involved $58,512.33, an audit of the books showed. Most of the loans were for one year.

Two fellowships, one offered by Stanford and one by the University of California, will be assigned each year to two graduate students of German universities, in accord with arrangements completed by a citizens’ committee acting under the direction of the Institute of International Education.uation. Collegiate Chatter (Interesting Bits of News Gleaned from the College Press)

The University of North Carolina has started a movement to encourage its faculty and students to buy and own more books, hoping that by this means the state’s reputation as a book-buyer can be improved. A small general bookstore, known as “The Bull’s Head Bookshop,” has been opened in Murphy Hall under the direction of the English department, and there students and teachers can buy anything from Durant’s “History of Philosophy” to Francis Newman’s “Hard-Boiled Virgin.” A notice on the wall of the shop informs all newcomers that they may read there in comfort and leisure any books found on the shelves without obligation to buy. The shop is not run for profit.

Forty men, nearly all Harvard students, were placed under arrest, and nine men sent to the city hospital in Cambridge, Mass., recently as the aftermath of an early morning riot between more than a thousand Harvard students, their friends, and policemen.

Campus groups at Earlham College, Richmond, Ind., are financing a novel movement. They will send Wilfred Jones, one of their students, to Japan to spend a year—not as a missionary, but as a student. So far as is known, he is the first American student to be sent to Japan to enter a university.

Girls will be barred from the second “college cruise around the world,” it was recently announced by sponsors of the “Floating University,” now on its first tour of the globe, with 500 men and women students aboard. No explanation was given for the barring of girls from the second cruise.

Although they stated a preference for the honor system, three-fourths of the psychology students at the University of Arkansas confessed by secret ballot that they cheat on final examinations.

When automobiles were recently barred from the University of Oklahoma, an enterprising student purchased an airplane, thereby causing a faculty ban on airplanes.

Yale University is planning to build a tunnel under the campus to relieve traffic conditions.

Three students of Princeton University have received Rhodes Scholarships this year.

Football at the University of California earned nearly $300,000 last year. It was the only sport to show a profit, the others costing approximately $75,000 each.

Students at the University of Oregon are skating to classes, to town, and even to dances. Approximately 700 pairs of roller skates were bought by them in a single week.

Fraternities of Stanford University plan to adopt a system of co-operative buying of supplies in order to cut expenses. A manager will be appointed to be responsible for the purchase and delivery of all supplies to all fraternities. If the plan proves successful, the sororities will form a similar organization.

In response to the request for R.O.T.C. men to sign up for military basketball at the University of Minnesota, enough men answered the call to form 38 teams, each squad averaging 8 men and a manager.

Three children in a school district of 400 miles in Harney County, Oregon, would be the only pupils in a school and have their own teacher under a bill recently introduced in the state legislature. Schools are not available under the present system in any district with less than six pupils.

What---No Junior Speaking? (“Cut It Out”---Says One Disgusted Third-Year Man)

A long-suffering class of third-year men once more faces the disgusting spectacle of “Junior Speaking,” with all its tinseled glory and all its useless expenditure of time and money. Of all the unnecessary evils in the student system at Davidson College, “Junior Speaking,” in its revised and up-to-date form, is undoubtedly the most outstanding. Its abolition is not only a desirability but a necessity.

Let it be said that the evil does not lie in the Speaking itself but rather in the social program built up around it, with special emphasis on the Saturday-evening program. Therein lies a total waste of time, money, and effort. Originally, Junior Speaking was primarily an oratorical event to which the social program was added only as a sort of enticing background. That time is past, and now we find oratory playing a second fiddle, and an unmusical one at that. The old program, to which each member added his part with an oration, is impractical under present conditions. The present arrangement with each member of the class contributing only in money and time is undesirable.

Why is Junior Week an evil? First, it entails the expenditure of about six hundred dollars by members of the Junior class. Part of this amount is raised through outside sources, but at least two-thirds of the burden must be borne by the individual members of the class, or is supposed to be borne by them. The fact is, however, that in past years a large part of the class refuses to contribute to the fund. As a result, a class often carries the debts of a happy Junior Speaking to the end of its Senior year, at which time an additional assessment is collected from the students who so thoughtlessly indebted themselves.

This year, for example, the Junior Class finds itself unable to meet cash payments on the decorations and supplies necessary for the Saturday entertainment. Credit is refused them by the merchants of Charlotte, who have learned from past experience with Junior Speakings that payments are slow and uncertain. The present Junior Class has already been halted once this year because of outstanding debts incurred by the preceding class. The situation next year, and the year after that, will probably be identical.

In the second place, the money is uselessly spent. This is not meant as a reflection either on the integrity or the judgment of those who have handled the funds in the past. It merely suggests that by far the largest part of the six hundred dollar quota is used in providing mediocre entertainment for three hundred people for an hour-and-a-half on one Saturday evening. The least wise among us will agree that two dollars per person is an exorbitant price to pay for such entertainment. Likewise, it is to be remembered that the Junior Class bears the expenses, makes all arrangements, and offers the entertainment gratis to other undergraduates and visitors. A very generous gift, but totally unwarranted!

Third, the members of the class spend an inestimable amount of valuable time planning for the Saturday night affair. At present, more than twenty men are meeting at least once every week with the sole object of making Saturday night a “howling success.” Within the month, an increasing number of men will be required to lend their time and efforts in the perfection of plans whereby an hour-and-a-half’s entertainment for the students in general can be provided. The sophomores hold their banquet, the seniors their smokers—at which members of the class gather together and enjoy the pleasures of fellowship and class spirit. Not so with the Juniors. They must spend their time and money providing amusement for a great mass of students and visitors, about whom the class, as a unit, has no earthly reason to be concerned.

In the fourth place, the faculty and student body are not in sympathy with the Junior Class in its efforts to stage a successful Junior Week. (Perhaps experience has shown them the folly of it all.) The class is halted at every turn, either by its lack of permission to solicit ads for the Sanity Rare, or the refusal of the student body to attend its functions. Attention is further called to the fact that by far the greatest number of students do not remain for the Easter festivities. Even members of the Junior Class depart, leaving the entertainment for those who care to be amused. This brings us to the final conclusion that the festivities are carried on primarily by the fraternities, their members and guests, with the Junior Class “footing the bills.”

Other colleges have discovered the utter foolishness of such an event, and they have had the courage to abolish it. In a recent issue of the New Student, there was published the following item: “The Cornell Daily Sun, having found a tradition on its campus costly, cumbersome and silly, proceeded to try knocking it out. Junior Week was its name, and its effect hollow-eyed, and expensive. The duty imposed by this week was that of riotous enjoyment for three full days and nights, so it appears.” Other schools have eliminated similar types of costly entertainment.

The Junior Class at Davidson today has the opportunity of ridding itself and its successors of the most extravagant, useless, and unnecessary evil which any organization or unit on “the hill” is forced to bear. Who Will Make the First Move?