4. THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 1, 1927

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.90 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received after this time will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
A. N. BROWN ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Managing Editor
G. RIGLDATO ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Athletic Editor
R. A. LEE ..........-.-.-.---------.--- News Editor
W. L. LYON ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Literary Editor
F. C. ERS ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Associate Editor
T. T. JONES ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Alumni Editor
R. G. BRADY ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Assistant Business Manager
W. M. WEIR ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Assistant Business Manager
P. J. GARRISON ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Circulation Manager
S. W. MORROW ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Solicitor
B. F. McCAGG ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Solicitor

Reporters’ Club
C. H. BAILEY ..........-.-.-.---------.--- President
W. E. ELY ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Vice-President
R. GRAHAM ..........-.-.-.---------.--- Secretary-Treasurer
J. P. ANDERSON
R. W. McDOWELL
W. H. BEST
W. B. BEVUE
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D. MILLER
E. S. FNER
V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. PRATT
R. F. JARRATT
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

OUR ATHLETIC CYCLE

The last curtain has fallen on the gridiron warriors of Davidson for the 1927 season. Several of the best players Davidson has seen in a number of years have sung their swan songs in the final act of this drama. Though some hit a few false notes and were a trifle flat at times, it was appreciated by all nonetheless. In marking the end of the careers of these members of the team, the dark curtain also marked the end of a rather disastrous season for Davidson,—disastrous in that Davidson has finished last in the only conference of which she is a member, that of the colleges of North Carolina. From the peak of the championship to the dismal abyss of the cellar in one year!

Numerous alumni and others less directly connected with the college will arise on their hind legs and bleat “Why? Why has Davidson fallen to such a depth? It is no disgrace to be defeated but why were they defeated so crushingly? Why?” To these queries, there will be as many answers as there are persons who reply. No doubt there will be many alibis given, some, however, will tell the truth. There will be many excuses given, but they will all revert to two main points. The lack of enough trained athletes to mold a well-rounded team and the fact that their opponents were for the most part representing schools larger than Davidson.

If present conditions prevail, Davidson will put out a winning team once every four, possibly every five years. Five years ago coaches Monk and Tex came to Davidson and had nothing but raw, very raw material, to work with. The first season failed to show much evidence of their training. The second season, things picked up a bit more, as did the third. Finally, in the fourth year, the men who had been under the tutelage of Monk and Tex since they had entered school won the state championship and then were graduated. This year the coaches had to start back where they did at first. Four or possibly three years from now we should have a championship team again if luck is with us. And so it will continue, our athletic cycle, of winning teams every four years. That is if the present indifference to high school athletes continues to prevail among the students and alumni of Davidson.

There are two alternatives out of this situation. One is to have as the opponents of Davidson only those colleges whose student body enrollment is the same as that of Davidson or approximately the same. The other is to have some definite influence from some efficient organization come to bear on high school athletes to persuade them to come to Davidson.

The first solution is rather repugnant to the minds of some—that Davidson must admit the superiority of some schools that it has defeated in the past few years, but yet that we are due to defeat them only as the cycle decrees that it is their time to be defeated. This sounds silly to some people but we offer as proof the result of the past four seasons.

The second solution is the logical one to choose if enough are truly interested in seeing Davidson advance in the realm of athletics. Do not misunderstand and believe that this article is advocating the payment of athletes for services rendered to the college on the athletic field. Every real Davidson man is sincerely opposed to this custom. But there are many who believe that Davidson is attractive enough without any pecuniary influence brought to bear upon the prospective student. But if the alumni and student body work together a number of men could be brought here if they know the school well, know its students, the kind of men it graduates and the situation in general.

In a number of our contemporary institutions, there are clubs formed of men who have attended some prep school or high school together. These men have the athletes and friends from their old school down to their present institution of learning, entertain them, and show them why they have selected this particular school to continue their work in higher education. In this way, influential men in the high schools and prep schools become interested in this particular school, influence is brought to bear upon them, they know that they will have friends at this particular institution and they decide to attend. There is nothing wrong at all in this system and it aids the college materially in maintaining its standard in scholarship as well as athletics. It is merely a matter as to whether or not the undergraduates are enough interested in their Alma Mater to attempt to build up the institution and render it aid for future years by influencing their friends to come there also.

It has come to the point now as to whether Davidson men will be willing to sacrifice something for their school, go out of their way to get good men to come here, or whether they are willing for our athletic cycle of success to recur every five years. With the growth of other schools, it is highly probable that this cycle will be widened with future years and that the successes of Davidson will become less and less frequent. If the men are willing, Davidson will have athletes. If they are indifferent, Davidson will sink lower than she has already plunged.

There is much work that could be done around this vicinity right now. The football team of Charlotte High has been unusually successful this year, and there are a number of good men on the squad who will be entering college next fall. To show that Davidson is interested in these men and rejoice over their success this year, why could not a banquet be given to the squad by the members of the senior class, the junior class, or any definite organization on the hill? No doubt there are a number of men who are undecided now as to what college to attend. Every man in school is certain that no one would make a mistake in coming to Davidson—why not show these men that they believe this and that every man in the student body would be glad to have any of them here with us next year?

Doubtless there are many who are violently opposed to any such action as this. They believe that Davidson in itself is known all over the country and needs no further advertisement to induce any man to come here. They are sincere in this belief and we respect their sincerity, but to be frank wouldn’t they like to have a better football season next year than the one just concluded?

Everyone realizes that we must do something. Davidson has always needed plenty of good athletes, there is not a college in the country that does not need them. Is it logical that Davidson should have less than her share merely because we are indifferent as to her welfare?

THAT GASTONIA CROWD

Whether the Wildcats win or lose, whether they roll up several touchdowns or fail to even make a first down, that loyal crowd of alumni in Gastonia is always behind them cheering them on until the last whistle. They stood nobly behind the team last year when it had a successful season, and they have backed the team this year sincerely when the season has been rather unsuccessful. Last Saturday night they entertained the entire football squad at a testimonial dinner in Gastonia. They proved to these Wildcats that the Gastonia alumni appreciate the Davidson team, rejoiced in its fight, and that they were behind the team every minute of play.

Such loyalty as this cannot fail to be appreciated. It is certain that all of the football team appreciates all that Gastonia has done for them but it should be known to them that the student body as a whole is grateful to this band of alumni who have done so much to perpetuate the spirit of Davidson although they have been graduated from this institution for a number of years. It is such men as these that make us proud ofDavidson and what it can instill in the heart of every man that spends a portion of his life in this institution. They have shown us that college life does not last for a mere four years only but that its associations, its friends, and its spirit will last a lifetime. They have proved to us that the memories of Davidson are not dulled and forgotten a year or so after one has left school but rather that it is kept in the heart for years after. To these men who have been so faithful and loyal we are profoundly grateful. We are grateful for their hospitality and appreciation of our football squad. But we appreciate and feel more their true loyal Davidson spirit. In this cynical age it is far too easy to forget the nobler things of life and believe that college life, college spirit and all that goes with it is nothing but the ravings of a publicity agent or an advertising man. We are glad that we can see definite evidence and proof of college loyalty and college spirit as evidenced by graduates and men much older than us. If it can mean that much to men who have departed from college many years ago, it proves to us what it should mean to those who are now attending the institution.

MORE EXPERIMENTS

A recent bulletin from the University of Michigan announced that next year this institution would adopt the policy of conferring two-year diplomas on those students whom they deemed incapable of carrying further collegiate work. Dr. Little, president of the university, has stated that he expected to meet with no little difficulty in attempting to carry out this plan, questioning particularly the problem of grades and collegiate rank as a definite and honest criterion. Under this system only those who have proven their worth in two years of undergraduate work will be allowed to continue their courses looking forward to a regular bachelor’s degree. This plan would eliminate the hangers-on of a college who spend five and six years working for a diploma and then barely squeeze through. The question as to its efficiency as a working plan arises when the rather dull man who is working hard must be dropped in favor of a more brilliant man who does no work. There is also the question of the slow man who after two years is just beginning to realize and appreciate the workings of the university system of study and its benefits. There are obvious advantages to this plan, however, and we can wait only for the future to disclose its feasibility. The Daily Princetonian comments very favorably on the plan, however, predicting that “better things in the line of education in the course of the next few years” will be evidenced as a result of this and other experiments.

There have been more experiments and changes in the general system of education this year than ever before. Dr. Meiklejohn, head of the Experimental College at the University of Wisconsin, reports favorable progress at his institution which is studying separate cycles of civilization of the world from their economic and moral viewpoints rather than as disconnected historical events. This is probably the most outstanding change in the country and if it succeeds will do more to change the present college system than any other experiment. At Harvard this year they have introduced a two weeks “reading period” before examinations. The success of this venture is also in the doubtful stage at present. In the last issue of the Alumni Bulletin of Harvard there appeared an article by a recent graduate on the present tutorial system at Harvard. This system is two hours recitation per week and one hour quiz on definite outside reading. This alumnus pleads for cumulative quizzes and more lectures, another important point to be considered when one is contemplating changes in the present system. Likewise at Princeton are changes being contemplated and experiments being conducted. The officials of Princeton are now investigating and experimenting with the four-course plan and the preceptorial system. So it seems that some of these experiments will be deemed successful and some regarded as failures. But any one of them introduced into the present university system would call for radical changes. It is very probable that several years from now we will scarcely recognize our Alma Mater. But such changes would develop slowly and we may hope that we will be allowed to graduate without having to go back and start all over again as freshmen under a different system.

The time has come at last for the entire football season to be played over again. Game by game, play by play, the bull-sessions will wax hot and furious from now on as would-be coaches and mentors discover the exact reason why the Wildcats won this game and lost that one. Excerpt from the Georgia Cracker: “Georgia beat Yale, Yale beat the Army, and the Army won the war—now where does Georgia rate?”

Ollapodrida

There is something about music that can stimulate, inspire, depress you or cause almost any emotion except anger in you. Some jazz concoctions can almost do the latter. The finest music is that which inspires longing for something that seems beyond human grasp. Jazz may do that sometimes but it soon loses its spell. Paul Whiteman, Emperor of the dance lyrics, has been trying for years to blend jazz and classical music. His efforts have for the most part met with failure but his most recent piece “When Day is Done” almost brings together the union. If you haven’t heard it, get it. It will be worth your while.

Football, king of collegiate sports, has again fallen before father time and the Thanksgiving turkey. National stars have doffed their hallowed headgears, some for the last time, and sports writers have set themselves to the herculean task of picking the eleven best players in the country. For the first time in history, southern schools offer a wide choice of candidates for these coveted positions and then to upset all tradition Georgia has stepped out upon the horizon with the strongest claim of any team in the country for the national championship. That claim hangs on the outcome of its struggle with Georgia Tech in Atlanta Saturday. Georgia should win. The country’s gridirons having produced no outstanding genius of the game, sport writers have looked to the attendance to count the new records for the season. Notre Dame and Southern California set a record for all time in Chicago last Saturday when 113,000 souls jammed the stadium at three dollars or more a head. Each team raked off something more than $150,000 and the city of Chicago reaped $50,000 rent. All in all it is estimated that throughout the country 25,000,000 people paid $50,000,000 to witness the season’s offerings. The players may be amateur but their backers are not. It is no wonder that a good coach can draw a high salary because a winning team attracts more dollars.

It has been noticeable that since the first intimation of the Fall-Sinclair graft, no outstanding Republican has risen to rebuke them. Last week a Republican senator accomplished that feat and brought himself to the attention of the country. Men who seek political office find it a difficult task to attack members of their own party or to express their unbiased opinion because of their party standing. One fatal slip may ruin a man’s political career and a politician does not care to take a chance on bettering the world at that price.

Cecil de Mille, tsar of motion picture directors, has taken it upon himself to discover the origin of the motion picture. Recent findings reveal that Alexander Black first employed the principle in 1894 when he produced moving pictures by showing stereopticon slides at the rate of five a second as compared with the present rate of sixteen a second. In less than thirty-five years it has become a billion-dollar industry and the chief form of amusement of the world. But Black died in obscurity as other inventors, unaware of material values, have done. There has never been a great inventor who has realized the value of money or of his productions. In some peculiar way material things are obnoxious to them. If Thomas Edison had cashed in on all of his inventions he would be by far the richest man in the world today.

The curiosity of the world will be satisfied Friday by the display of the new Ford. Various prominent and national figures have viewed the machine but to date none have revealed the secret of its appearance and Ford has been successful in keeping that secret safely guarded. One of its reviewers did break down and describe it as a Baby Lincoln. Take that for what you may and look at it tomorrow. With the coming of the car, motor sales will increase rapidly. Experts predict a sale of 5,000,000 cars next year, a new record. If that record is to be established business prosperity must continue because there is no better barometer of business conditions than motor car sales. Big business will hold sway during the remainder of the Coolidge term but the bears will come in for their good times yet.

And then one remembers that Davidson was beaten last week by the second largest score in its athletic history. Georgia Tech did Duke one better with a 66-point margin. Two years from now 48 points will cause as little disconsolation to students as those 66 points now do. Few students knew that Davidson was ever beaten that badly.

W. L. L.

Some kind-hearted scribe did pick a Davidson man for the mythical All-State team. In fact, two Davidson players were mentioned by the athletic editors of the State, each man received one vote. Well, anyway it’s the first year in several that we haven’t had any on the team. That’s a little consolation.