THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 20, 1927

Fraternity Men Looking Forward to Initiations

Approximately Eighty Men to be Taken in

A few weeks after the mid-year exams, the various fraternities on the Hill will initiate their pledges into full membership in the fraternities. This year, the fraternities pledged 64 men on bid day, and since that time they have added at least 15 men to this list. The pledges, in order to be initiated, are required to pass at least three major subjects. This requirement will be enforced during the second semester in order to be initiated.

The initiations this year will be held a few days earlier than last year, the initiations last year having been held about the middle of February. The pledges have had it forcibly impressed upon them that they will be very melancholy during and immediately following the initiations. Thus, the report that the freshmen are looking forward to the initiations with a great deal of pleasure can hardly be verified.

Gustave Eiffel, builder of the Eiffel Tower, built the iron framework of Bartholdi’s Statue of Liberty.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see VERNON S. BROYLES

BEST PRICES Agent for QUICK SERVICE Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

Watches and Clocks Sheaffer Pens and Pencils Seal Stationery Pennants and Pillows Wildcat Belts Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C.

A pledge failing to come up to COLLEGE JEWELRY

Many New Associations

Chapters in Nearby Cities Have Been Visited Recently

In order that the Davidson College alumni may have an idea as to the work that has been done and is being done as regards alumni associations, a list of the officers of the associations that have been visited by the alumni secretary is given below. Some of these associations are new, some have been existing only in work. The list follows:

Greensboro — John McAllister, ‘10, president; Rev. Dwight M. Chalmers, '20, vice-president, and Worth Williams, '26, secretary and treasurer.

Rock Hill — Oran Crawford, '13, president; Harry Ruff, '03, vice-president; Ben Dunlap, ’22, secretary-treasurer.

Rowan County — Barry Taylor, 1900, president; I. P. Graham, ’08, vice-president; Reid Sloan, '23, secretary-treasurer.

Charlotte — H. E. Matthews, '02, president; Judge M. A. Currie, '16, vice-president; George Miley, '21, secretary-treasurer.

Fayetteville — T. W. Rankin, ‘09, president; Dr. J. A. Shaw, ‘10, vice-president; W. B. Jennings, ’26, secretary-treasurer.

Wilmington — Dr. J. E. Evans, ’10, president; E. T. Huggins, ’94, vice-president; J. D. Howell, ’20, secretary-treasurer.

Gaston County — Sam Boggs, '25, president; R. E. Robinson, ’90, vice-president; Hugh Query, '00, secretary-treasurer.

S. G. W. F. Alumni Association (South Georgia, North Florida) — Rev. J. E. Ward, '90, president; Hansel Watt, ’01, of Thomasville, Ga., vice-president; J. J. Love, ’19, of Quincy, Fla., secretary-treasurer.

Atlanta, Ga. — Bonar White, ’10, president; Mayor J. Scott Candler, ’07, of Decatur, vice-president; H. S. Askew, 1900, secretary-treasurer.

Louisville, Ky., was organized January 13th, but the officers are unknown at this time.

Don’t knock the school or its component parts. You may be wrong. If you don’t boost Davidson, people interested in the institution will look at you askance and wonder what manner of place this might be. Talk enthusiastically. People will continue to wonder, but for a different cause.

Don’t let your interest lag because football season has passed. We have other athletics and numerous sides of college life. Don’t fail to attend debates, music performances, and other appearances of Davidson’s representatives. If you don’t, nobody else will. Don’t Don’t! Do Do!

—From a bulletin posted by the Alumni Secretary.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Everything a good Drug Store can supply

WHITE DRUG COMPANY DAVIDSON, N. C. Where Sincere Service is Given

Ralph’s Barber Shop

Raeford — Dr. W. M. Fairley, ’95, president.

Alumni Secretary Visits Plans for New Athletic Conference Formulated

Professor W. W. Wood Elected Head of Committee on Organization

Prof. W. W. Wood, graduate manager of athletics at Davidson, was elected chairman of a committee to foster the organization of a new athletic conference, at a meeting of athletic officials in Charlotte last Friday, January 14th. Acting on a suggestion to form a conference to include many colleges in the Mid-Atlantic states, the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce has taken the initiative in calling together the coaches and athletic officials of this district to take definite steps toward organizing an athletic conference that will be known as the Middle Atlantic Intercollegiate Conference. Davidson College will probably enter this conference if plans for organization mature.

“I think it would be a very good thing,” said Prof. Wood, “and I would like to see Davidson allied with other teams in the proposed conference. If it is limited to include schools within an area that would not be too large, I believe the Athletic Council, composed of alumni and athletic officials here, would sanction the entrance of Davidson College into such an organization.”

Coach Monk Younger is heartily in favor of the new conference and favors our entrance. Since a great many colleges feel that they are isolated because they do not belong to a conference, this would solve the problem of numerous teams of this section.

When this measure is brought up before the student body, it will very likely be passed, since from personal expression, ithas met with approval from many students. At a meeting at Jacksonville, the first week in December, an athletic conference was proposed and discussed. No definite steps toward its formation were taken, however, until the recent meeting in Charlotte.

The number of colleges admitted will be limited to 12 or 15. Among those considered for membership are William and Mary and the University of Virginia, in Virginia; Duke University, Wake Forest, and in North Carolina; Furman, Presbyterian College, and Citadel, in South Carolina; and Oglethorpe, Davidson, and Mercer in Georgia.

Student Council Moves Into Office in Oak Row
Council Obtains Old Beta Hall for Much Needed Office

The south end of Oak Row is the new home of the Student Council. All meetings of this prominent campus organization will be held there from now on. Since the founding of the honor system and the Student Council, as the official head of this system, the latter have been forced to meet in the various Literary Society halls, but since these halls did not belong to the council they could not be regarded as a permanent meeting place. This new arrangement makes it very convenient for the Student Council for they now have what may be called a regular meeting place.

Since the social fraternities moved off the campus two years ago, the rooms in Oak and Elm rows have been vacant until this year. During this year, however, several organizations have made their offices in these rooms. The office of the Alumni Association, the “D” Club, and the Student Council are now in these buildings. Before the fraternities used these buildings as halls they served as dormitories.

The first official act of the Student Council was to swear in the new president of the Class of ’30, Allan Frew, who with his election automatically became a member of this organization.

The work “Dixie” originated from a banknote given out by a New Orleans bank in early days. These notes were printed in French and English, and bore the French word for ten, Dix. They became known as “Dixies,” and the South as Dixieland.

A woman's signature is not valid in Bel-

ATTENTION ALUMNI
new address when you make a change. Drop us a postal card immediately. We have too many of our alumni unloaded today. Don't be content with merely an ordinary meeting in your locality. Institute some workings of your own, and make other associations watch the result of your work. Don't depend upon us entirely for the suggestions. You perhaps have better ones. Send a few of your own ideas in. They may revolutionize our whole organization.

You might prevent a letter being sent to you. Send in names of good men to the registrar, with a sketch of the man who you want to wear the laurels of this institution. You know the type of student we need. Help us in that manner. Don't nurse an individual grudge. Express it. Others might think the same thing. You can’t make an institution better by keeping silent. Don’t depend upon the other alumnus to do all the thinking, contribute all the money, or do all the work.

The Comptroller General and Assistant Comptroller General hold the longest term of office of any government officials. It is for 15 years.

“D” Club Occupies Part of Elm Row

The “D” Club has taken over part of Elm Row and will use it as a Trophy Room, in which will be displayed pictures of teams, captains, and star athletes who have worn a Wildcat uniform in addition to athletic trophies won by Davidson teams. This part of the building was formerly occupied by the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity. The southern portion is now the office of W. E. Milton, Alumni Secretary. Such a place as this has been a long-felt need for this organization. Serving as a central meeting place for the “D” Club as well as a display room for the many cups and medals of former Davidson teams, it will be of interest to students and visitors who come here from time to time. The new cup which was won by the Championship football team is the latest addition to the trophy shelves and others are expected to be added in the near future.

FOR THAT TASTE OF Home Cooking On Your Way Home
New York Cafe
29 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

It requires months of roaming the odd places of Europe to assemble the multitude of original fabric ideas that have made Braeburn Smart Styled Clothes for College Men famous. Know Braeburn Clothes once and swear allegiance forever.
$35 to $50
MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.