THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1927

Enticing List of Movies Booked for Gymnasium Theatre in Next Few Weeks

“The Cat and the Canary” has been booked to be shown by the “Y” at the gym on Saturday, November 5th. This is one of the big shows of the year, the attendance having been doubled in every picture house in which it has been shown. On the stage, “The Cat and the Canary” was conceded to be one of the greatest mystery plays ever written, and according to critics, the film version is even more mysterious than the play. The plot hinges about a murder in an unoccupied country residence where six persons have gone at the hour of midnight to hear the reading of a will. Anyone of the main characters might be the murderer and suspicion falls first on one and then on the other. The logical though unusual ending is one that is impossible for the audience to foretell.

The Cast
Annabelle West .......... Laura La Plante
Paul Jones ............... Creighton Hale
Charles Wilder .......... Forrest Stanley
Tully Marshall .......... Gertrude Astor
Susan .................... Flora Finch
Harry .................... Arthur Edmund Carew
Mammy Pleasant ........ Martha Mattox
Milk Man ................ George Siegmann
Joe Murphy ............. Billie Engle

On November the sixth, the “Chinese Parrot” will be shown. This film is considered a masterpiece, not on account of setting, sensationalism, or feats of daring but on account of excellent acting and better directing. The action of the picture is not rough and vigorous but is of fine quality throughout. The leading characters are: Marion Nixon, Hobart Bosworth, and Edmund Burns.

“Dynamite Dan,” featuring Kenneth McDonald, will be played November 12, while on November 19 “Thumbs Down” will be shown with Creighton Hale and Lois Boyd taking the leading parts. The admission to the “Cat and Canary” will be raised to 35 cents due to the cost of bringing it here.

QUIPS AND CRANKS
(Continued from page one)

showing Marshal Ney in a characteristic situation. The inserts are fitting introductions to each of the five divisions of the book. A tone of high quality is evident throughout the whole of this comprehensive annual. “Quips and Cranks” was published by the Queen City Printing Company, of Charlotte.

HARVARD STUDENT RENOUNCES COVETED “H”

If a cyclone had taken its course through the Harvard campus, it could not have caused more consternation, wonderment, and gasping than the recent resignation of the Harvard football manager. Left to choose between the glory of an “H” in a task that is one of the most cherished in Cambridge, and an “A” in his studies, the student turned to the “A.” Harvard found it hard to believe that a man who had his hand on the glory that is granted but few should renounce his opportunity. Some of the students snickered and muttered something about lack of spirit. But there were others who hailed the act as a much-needed victory for scholarship. The “Harvard Crimson” believes the trend is away from over-emphasis on extra-scholastic activities, and hails the resignation as a victory for the cause of learning. It believes that the manager is free from “any stigma of disloyalty” that would have been charged to him had he cast his lot with scholarship a few years ago.—The New Student.

“BETTER BUMMING OR NONE AT ALL”

“Better bumming or none at all” is the warning Mayor Zeb Council, of Chapel Hill, has issued to the students of the University of North Carolina. Motorists, said the mayor, have complained that students seeking rides have cluttered the highways beyond comfort and safety, and that these collegians, when refused lifts, have thumbed their noses at the motorists and otherwise outrageously insulted them. “The Tar Heel,” loathe to believe such an attack on the university’s students, asked for more convincing details, and got them. So Carolina boys have been asked to bum with courtesy, lest the mayor and council ban them from the auto paths—The New Student.

M. D. Thomasson, ’25, who is with the Aetna Life Insurance Co., and has been at Oklahoma City, Okla., has been transferred to the home office at Hartford, Conn. O. J. Allison, '24, with the same company at Columbia, S. C., is also with the office at Hartford. H. O. Covington, ’23, who was in Hartford for a while, is now located with the company at Louisville, Ky. Dr. W. P. Craven, ’72, continues very ill with bronchial pneumonia at his home in Hopewell, Route 6, Charlotte, N. C.

Charlotte, N. C. banking needs. Government.

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

The Commercial National Bank
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your 4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Make us your Executor. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
Founded 1847
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

The New Red and Black Blazers to be Worn by Seniors Will be Here This Week
Forty Have Been Ordered in First Shipment
DELAYED AT FACTORY
Orders for Second Shipment Being Taken Now by Bob Platt

The class of 1928 has decided to wear as its distinguishing garment, a red and black blazer. These blazers were chosen after much discussion, and meet with the approval of the entire class. It is the custom at Davidson each year for the Senior class to choose some pieceof wearing apparel by which they may be distinguished from the other classes. The Senior class year before last wore purple and gold blazers. Last year the Seniors wore black derbies and carried walking canes. These distinguishing features make it very easy for the Senior to be recognized on the campus. The choice of the red and black blazers is very appropriate and patriotic, and it is hoped that all members of the Senior class will order them. They have already been ordered by some 30 or 40 members of the class, and should arrive in the very near future. They were due last week, but due to a delay at the factory, they were not shipped; however, they are expected sometime during this week. Those Seniors who have not ordered them, and who wish to order them, may do so by seeing Bob Platt, in 204 Watts, as soon as possible.

Y Quartet Rounds Into Shape With Cullum Directing

According to Professor Cullum, the members and officers of the Y. M. C. A. Quartet will be chosen in a very short while. Up to the present time, and until they are chosen, the men who sing in the quartet have to be chosen from the most promising aspirants, who have been coming to the meetings. Those who have been attending these meetings and trying out for the quartet are Jim Bradley, J. C. Fry, R. McDermid, K. Pool, Jeff Garrison, L. Pritchett, C. H. Dubose, Kirkpatrick, W. Archie, and D. O. Westbrook. With Professor Cullum as director, the work with the quartet has been steadily progressing since it started a short while ago. However, according to one of the members, there have not been as many attending the meetings as Professor Cullum had hoped for. A temporary quartet composed of Jim Bradley, K. Pool, Jeff Garrison, and D. O. Westbrook, sang at the Hopewell Church Sunday, November 6th. If the permanent members of the quartet have not been chosen by November 13th, similarly chosen "Y" Quartet will sing at all of the services of the Fall Evangelical Services, from November 13th through November 16th. According to Jim Appleby, the quartet is being started to give the Davidson men who desire it and are good enough, an opportunity to sing in a quartet, and for those who don’t make the quartet, also a chance to sing or learn to sing. Another purpose is to give the men who desire it training in leading church singing.

TRIUMPH OF THE FLIVVER IN MARATHONS

The final word of recognition that the collegiate Ford had heretofore lacked has been added to the rest with Henry Ford’s request that he be sold, for display in his museum, the winning car in the derby from Drake College to Grinnell, which the Drake “Delphic” sponsored on the day of the Drake-Grinnell football game. The race was the first of its sort, but not the last. Another derby, from Oklahoma A. and M. College, Stillwater, to University of Oklahoma stadium, at Norman, is scheduled for November 19th, under the auspices of the “O. Collegian.” The derby is somewhat meant to be an exposition of the spirit that is to defeat Oklahoma, but that is best understood by the promoters of the marathon. In the light of the unsuccessful non-stop flights of women flyers, the sponsors have taken pains to remove all possible “jinxes” and have barred women from competition — The New Student.

PASTOR OF MYERS PARK (Continued from page one)

times, in the classroom and in every part of college life. No one really takes Christ with him everywhere, but the nearer a person puts himself to Him the more he tries to model his own life after His, and closer he will come to the goal of a perfect Christian life. The Christian’s greatest need is to know Christ not as a historic man, but as a living, abiding Saviour whose presence and constant companionship can help him in all the demands of life.

This splendid address recalled to the minds of the students the series of stimulating talks given here last spring by Dr. Gammon.

The longer you smoke Prince Albert, the more convinced you become that it is the most satisfying tobacco that ever nestled in the bowl of a jimmy-pipe. You get a brand-new thrill every time you open the tidy red tin and breathe that wonderful aroma. And when you tuck a load into the business-end of your pipe, light up, and open the drafts—say, Mister! Cool as a letter from home, telling you to cut down your expenses. Sweet as an unexpected check in the next mail. Sweet and mild and long-burning. So mild, in fact, that it never bites your tongue or parches your throat, no matter how swift your pipe-pace. Yet it has that full, rich tobacco-body that lets you know you’re smoking and makes you glad you are. Try Prince Albert, Fellows, and get the joy that’s due you! Buy a tin today and get started! P. A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.

ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA

The Finest Musical Instrument in the World Prices $95 to $1,000 All Models in Stock--Easy Terms NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.