4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an
unknown source will not be noticed.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. - Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. S. DINGELHOEF - Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN - Assistant Managing Editor
B. G. McWILLIAMS - Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB - Associate Editor
H. L. SHELBY - Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN - Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON - Assignment Editor
P. B. JONES - Feature Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS - Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD - Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE - Assistant Business Manager
A. McALISTER - Subscription Manager
J. L. ALBRIGHT - Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY - Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
T. T. ALLEN - President
A. N. BROWN - Secretary-Treasurer
C. R. DAKE
J. W. H. BAILEY
TYREE DILLARD
L. E. ELY
J. R. GRAHAM
B. WILSON
JOHN GWIN
W. R. WEAVER
R. C. GRADY
L. C. WADSWORTH
R. H. KANE
JOHN MORIARTY
J. P. McKNIGHT

EDITORIAL

Southern colleges will never get an even break with Northern schools until coonskin coats go out of style—Arkansas Gazette.

The most discouraging fact is not that prisons are so overcrowded but that they ought to be more so.—Ohio State.

So far, no modern has invented an intelligence test to equal matrimony.—Austin American.

It is a safe bet that the man who sings “How Dry I Am” is a wet.—Norfolk-Virginian-Pilot.

Man and woman can get along nicely as life partners if they can avoid being bridge partners.—Waterbury American.

A scientist is suggesting that man retained his tail sometime after he became intelligent. But then the earliest caves never
had revolving doors.—Punch.

Spring football, at least the variety demonstrated every afternoon on Richardson Field, is as Darwin would say, “A survival of
the fittest.”

These new-fangled collegiate movies, starting with Clara Bow’s classic performance in “The Plastic Age,” and continuing through a nauseating series
of screened atrocities down to the seemingly-popular serial, “The Collegians,” have done much to disgust the public with colleges and
college students in general. Either the producers of these exaggerated celluloid delineations of college life are woefully ignorant of campus
conditions or they are willfully dishonest in their portrayal of the same. College students are neither as wicked nor as
clownish as they are pictured.

COLLEGE MANNERS

We are in hearty accord with a recent suggestion that a course in manners be included in every college curriculum.
The plea for emphasis in this direction is called forth just now not by any special departures from conduct and
behavior of a correct sort, but by the recognition that at such a huge democratic institution as the average American
college or university, there is evident in large numbers of students a lack of both the knowledge and practice of
propriety in dress, speech, and personal conduct, so far as the latter relates itself to the ordinary habits of the
cultured.

Time was when a college or university degree was ipso facto a symbol of the highest there was of culture
and good-breeding. A college graduate, we are told, was known to possess that assemblage of talents which composed the happy
gift of being well-bred. College students prepared themselves for the world as the athlete makes ready for his exercises. They
oiled their minds and their manners to give them the necessary suppleness and flexibility. They developed in themselves the principal
fundamentals of social grace, including grace of action, dignity, good sense, humility, a command over the passions, reservedness, respect, handsome
courtesy, and kindness.

But, with the advent of the modern era of jazz and bobbed hair, there has come a laxity of dress
and manners among college men which threatens to obliterate the former elegance and polish of the college graduates. It is
perfectly proper, in the opinion of most people, for a student to dress as he likes, within the limits of
picturesqueness, but, as The Ohio Lantern points out, “one wants to be sure that picturesqueness does not degenerate into slovenness.
There is something a bit dubious at times about some of these unrenovated corduroys and shaggy sheepskins.”

The modern collegian is too often excused for his slip-shod habits of dress, speech, and conduct. As a result, we
are encouraging a laxity of personal habits that can lead only to boorishness and inelegance among the student class. It
is a rare and pleasant experience in these modern times to meet on the college campus a group of men
who have correct and pleasing manners, who are gentlemen in speech and dress, who know how to meet strangers gracefully,
who eat as well-bred people should, who have the graciousness and charm of the finer sort of folks. There are
many such students, but unfortunately they are obscured in the rustic masses which compose the hodgepodge known as our student
community.

It would seem expedient that we should do our best to increase the number of those who know and practice
the manners of a society which represents culture and fitness. If no other form of appeal to the ill-bred is
of avail, perhaps it might influence them to be told, as one college editor says, “that it will pay better,
after a little while, for them to cultivate good manners instead of bad.”

SELF-FINANCING STUDENTS

Patrick Monkhouse, a member of the Oxford debating team, on a recent tour of the United States, stated that the
most obvious error in American education (at least in the mind of a foreigner) was our practice of encouraging, and
sometimes forcing, a student to work his way through college. This unexpected attack by an English student on the revered
American ideal of self-dependence was widely criticized and denounced.

Now, an American, Dean Hawkes, of Columbia University, announces his concurrence in the British view. “As a matter of fact,”
says Dean Hawkes, “no boy ought to be compelled to earn his entire way through college if it can in
any way be avoided. Not only does he get a mighty poor living by the process, but a mighty poor
education as well.”

Dean Hawkes will be censured for his views, particularly by those colleges which boast perennially of the large percentage of
their students who are “working their way through school.” Critics of Dean Hawkes and of the Oxford debater will contend
that by bearing his own financial burdens a student is taught invaluable lessons of self-dependence and self-discipline. They will argue
that the college idler, who spends freely of his parents’ money, is missing the greatest thing in education after all.

There are most assuredly two sides to the issue. On one side is the typically American ideal of democracy and
self-dependence. On the other is the rather un-American idea of true culture and true education. The conduct of the student
who finances his own education is, to say the least, heroic. But, his heroism is only at the sacrifice of
health or education, or both. A man who spends half the day, or more, earning a living, instead of in
resting or studying cannot learn any more than the college idler. There is no denying that he will be a
more estimable person, but he won’t be, any more than the idler, a scholar. As the English student explains, “one
mustn’t confuse the moral with the educational issue. No man has the time both to earn a living and to
learn all that a college can teach him.”

Too many American students are thrown entirely on their own resources for their college expenses. Some of these are the
sons and daughters of affluent parents, who having earned their own way to wealth, are anxious that their offspring do
likewise. The greater number, however, are sons and daughters from homes of poverty, where money is too scarce to be
spent on the so-called luxury of higher education.

The parent capable of financing the child’s education is to be reprimanded for his unwillingness to do so, regardless of
the motive. The student did not ask his parents to bring him into the world. They are responsible for his
being here, and, consequently, they are responsible for giving him the best equipment possible to meet the world’s problems. If
a boy ought to go to college at all, he ought to be trusted to make good use of it.
There are thousands in our high schools who ought not to be there.

Schooling or Education? (A Challenge to the Youth of Our Land)
BY WOODBRIDGE N. FERRIS
United States Senator, Founder of Ferris Institute

President, and a superintendent of schools, at 31 he turned his back on the already settled middle West. Instead of
following the brilliant educational possibilities date be he -rjacket. In the woods of Michigan to found a school for the
lumberjacks.Wak / his institute where the rich man’s son is not welcome, but where more modest means have gained an
education. Their loyalty to their president contributed considerably, it is felt in Michigan State and later to the United States
Senate. In his early years a principal, a college before him, he struck into the heart of the state. The
disappearance of the pine multiplied Ferris Institute is now in its forty-third year. For nearly a decade the high schools,
the normal schools, the colleges, the universities, and the professional schools have thronged with students. Correspondence schools have multiplied by
the hundreds. There seems to be a cry for schooling echoing and re-echoing. There is a vast difference between schooling
and education. The physical equipment has rivaled in cost some of our great industrial plants. Sometimes it is wise for
us to inquire as to the motives of thousands and tens of thousands who think they must have an education.
If the great student body could be induced to make a confession, we would find that a surprisingly large number
of these students and their parents have concluded that through schooling, a man or woman may be able to get
a living without much work. This motive finds expression in the modern tendency toward shortcuts. Notwithstanding the teaching of American
ideals, work would appear to be something to be avoided, or at least, something to be made easy.

Educators and preachers frequently profess a profound sympathy for Abraham Lincoln in his efforts to realize his best possibilities. It
is my belief that Abraham Lincoln had positive advantages, growing out of his environment. It was the obstacles he overcame
and his method of overcoming them that gave us Lincoln. His life demonstrates that education is not confined to college
walls.

Often Made Too Easy

The tendency in educational institutions is to make the pathway of the student as easy as possible. Of course, there
is no special virtue in poverty or in some of the obstacles which confront human beings in their efforts to
“get on” in the world. This does not signify, however, that worthwhile education involves no obstacles. One of the greatest
experiments attempted in America is now being carried on at Antioch College. Ninety percent of the students do academic work
for five weeks and then do manual labor in neighboring cities in industrial plants for five weeks. This provision enables
the student to provide his own means for paying college expenses and at the same time enjoy an opportunity to
develop certain elements of character which cannot be developed in the academic field. It is true that there is danger
of making the earning of a living the primary end of education. However, we shall await with patience the results
of this great experiment at Antioch College.

Again and again I have suggested to high school graduates that they should give themselves a convincing test before they
go on to college. Parents are often loath to encourage this experiment. They are fearful that if high school graduates
should go out and attempt to earn their food, clothing, and shelter for one year, they might fail, or they
might change their attitude toward a choice of vocation. Beyond a doubt, to pursue a college course. There are thousands
in our universities who are not finding themselves through the training they receive. If our high school graduates could be
induced to make the test, many of the parents and students would discover at the end of the year that
to go on with an academic course would result in a waste of time and money.

An Experiment Advocated

I believe that a very large number of students in our higher institutions of learning should, at the end of
the first semester, or even at the end of the first year, be sent home, and then parents and guardians
should require these failures in academic work to enter upon some business occupation and prove that they have real “backbone.”
Continuing in a university simply for the sake of family honor is a mistake if a year in productive work
might change the mental attitude of the candidate. The higher institutions of learning should make every reasonable effort to persuade
parents and guardians that a college training is not a wise provision for a large number of men and women
who have no taste for books. A vast amount of money could be saved by relieving the higher institutions of
learning from trying to do the impossible.

It is not my purpose to overemphasize manual work. It is not my purpose to advocate a form of education
which would mean the turning out of more human machines for our great industries. Possibly the educational notions entertained by
a vast number of American citizens must undergo modification. The art of living is primary; the art of getting a
living is secondary. It is doubtful whether the art of living can be acquired without coordinating manual work with academic
work. A successful life involves a series of tests. By coordinating manual work with academic work, even in our high
schools, colleges, and universities, the fine art of living can be encouraged. Through this cooperation, thousands of youth could find
a way to secure what is now heralded as an education. It is reported through the newspapers that one-third of
the graduates of Yale in 1926 had worked their way through the university. It is safe to presume that some
of the best students, from an academic standpoint, were among the one-third who won this remarkable victory.

Too much emphasis has been placed upon athletics; altogether too much consideration is given to amusement, and insufficient attention is
given to that tremendous factor in human development called work. It is my humble belief that our so-called system of
education will undergo something akin to a revolution in the next 25 years. There are educators who believe that there
are other sources of education than those which come from the struggle that springs from an attempt to secure academic
degrees. By and by, I believe, people generally will come to a realization of the tremendous value of work as
an educational factor in the home. At present, nearly all of our educational facilities are concentrated in the schools of
the land. Education must find a place of consideration in the everyday affairs of life. Even boys and girls who
lend a hand to father and mother, who on entering college lend a hand to their associates; who lend a
hand in civic affairs; who lend a hand in all inspirational cooperation, are really on the royal road to education.
In a word, I am making a plea for emphasizing education as the art of living, rather than the art
of getting a living. —Christian Science Monitor.

A reasonable contribution toward his expenses from his parents. The question of what is to be done for the student
whose parents lack the wealth necessary to provide him with an education is considerably more difficult. In the first place,
the boy or girl who is ambitious enough to be willing to work for an education, which he could not
otherwise secure, deserves at least the protection and interest of a benevolent society. Philanthropists should build fewer stadiums. They should
contribute their money toward the establishment of student loan funds such as would enable the impoverished but aspiring student to
get an education without impairing his health or his talents. The student who is the recipient of such educational loans
is taught thriftiness and self-discipline without undergoing hardships that may undermine the value of an education. Ours is not a
plea for more college idling. There is too much of that already. Neither is it a plea for more sacrifice
by parents who are already over-indulgent. It is simply a plea for the deserving and trustworthy student, many of whom
today spend four years beside the college grindstone, earning a living, but destroying their chances for happiness and service in
life. “To see boys by the dozen take jobs that last from six o’clock in the evening until two in
the morning, six days a week; to see boys undergoing transfusion of blood to get money for their food and
books, is a heart-rending spectacle,” to Dean Hawkes. Yet, many of our students of the finest character and most excellent
ability are doing just this kind of thing. And, inevitably it is an important reason for apparent failure.

WHY PROFESSORS GET GRAY

These are some of the reasons: The bluffer. The boy with the loud voice and the empty head. The fellow
who took the course before. The sweet little co-ed who doesn’t know what it’s all about, but who needs at
least a B in the course. The silent bird who might have something worthwhile to say, but who keeps this
something hidden. The collegian who hasn’t read that far in the text and attempts to stage a filibuster and throw
the class off the track. The deadly serious young radical who knows only that he is radical. The equally serious
young conservative who believes only what his grandfather believed. And the boy who is taking the course just for the
credit. The sleepers don’t count unless they snore. Four years of class discussions have given us sympathy for the professor.
No wonder he gets gray. —Ohio State Lantern.
