THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1927

Stellar Davidson Half Given National Praise
Eleven New Students Enter College to Resume Second Semester’s Work

TO SELECT MANY NEW BOOKS
LIBRARY COMMITTEE MEETS

On Thursday of the past week, the Library Committee held its regular mid-year meeting for the discussion of books and the selection of those needed by the professors of the various departments, and those suggested by the students. This meeting is one of the three that the committee has each year, and the orders that it sent contain many titles that will be valuable additions to the library. Leading among the novels are: “Bellarion,” by Rafael Sabatini; “Trailmakers of the Middle Border,” by Hamlin Garland, and others by Walpole, Tarkington, and the more popular present-day novelists. In addition to these are reference books of History, Philosophy, Medicine, Psychology, and Biology, making a rather large order for this season of the year.

It would perhaps be of interest to the students to know that it is possible for them to suggest titles of books which they would think helpful, for the consideration of the Library Committee. The library year begins in May, and the largest orders of the year are placed in the hands of the publishers to be filled during the summer. In addition to these regular meetings, others are called when it is necessary to fill emergency orders, both for the professors or the students.

In the past few weeks, there have been a few additions to the library that are worthy of note. The wife of the late Owen Neill Brown, prominent New York attorney, and alumnus of Davidson College, presented the college with a set of Alden Chester’s “Courts and Lawyers of New York,” in memory of her husband. This set is in four volumes and contains the lives and works of the most prominent New York lawyers and judges. In addition to these, the library has been fortunate in securing the “Paton’s Digest,” a new set, and rich in citations of noted cases, and law procedure. A third addition is a book of “Literary Contrasts,” by C. Alphonso Smith. This book is full of masterpieces of literature arranged in such a way as to contrast works that have similarity in thought content. These three latest acquirements serve to increase the importance of the library as a source of invaluable reference material, and should prove of great help to the students.

THE VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE

Jackson Twins are Chosen as Mascots

At a recent meeting of the Senior class, the six-year-old Jackson twins, Edward and Eleanor, were chosen as mascots. They were unanimously elected and will serve as mascots of the class of '27 at all its public functions where mascots are required.

Mark Twain once said, “There are two things that you never expect; they are twins.” This may or may not be so, but as far as can be discovered, the idea of having twins for mascots of a class of Davidson College is a unique idea introduced by the present Senior class.

The most important function at which the mascots will be required to serve will probably be the graduating exercises at the end of the year. But the very prospect of walking down the aisle holding Joe McConnell’s hand, and leading the whole Senior class, is enough of an honor to make up for all the time they have not been serving officially. When last seen, they expressed themselves as willing, even eager, to serve. Mr. Jackson, their father, as well as the Davidson College treasurer, assented to their being the mascots.

Dick Grey Heralded as Great Player by Many Papers of the Country

Dick Grey has been heralded as a great football player in the newspapers of North Carolina in numerous stories during past seasons, but he has recently been spoken of in the papers throughout the entire United States. A cut of this stellar halfback with an appropriate summary of his work during the past season has been sent out to papers who subscribe to membership in the N. E. A. Service.

The article stated that “Dick Grey, of Davidson College, North Carolina, little heralded in the papers, was one of the outstanding players in the South. During the season he kicked six field goals and in four games his ability to boot the ball over the bar kept Davidson from defeat. His punts have averaged 42 yards, and he is a brilliant open-field runner.”

This picture and write-up were noticed by Davidson students in papers received here from distant places, among which were the Columbus (Ga.) “Ledger,” the Richmond (Va.) “Times-Dispatch,” the Mineral Wells (Tex.) “Daily Index,” the Charleston “News and Courier,” Greenwood, Miss., and others. This N. E. A. Service is sent out weekly in the form of mats to be made up by the newspapers using it and boasts of covering a field that is quite large in extent.

Students and faculty are glad to welcome additions to the student body for the spring semester. All except one of these men, J. K. Jones, of St. Petersburg, Fla., are old men who withdrew from school last year. Jones comes from the University of Florida and will take up first-year work. Three other men, E. H. Clarke, of Greensboro, N. C.; H. D. Cashion and T. G. Johnson, of Davidson, N. C., are also entering as freshmen.

The only senior in the number is W. B. Mattison, of Anderson, S. C., who was forced to withdraw last year. Two juniors, J. M. Melton, of Gastonia, N. C., and John M. Currie, of Fayetteville, N. C., have returned to school. Melton will be remembered as a sensational guard on the Wildcat eleven last year, while Currie holds the Davidson record for the hundred-yard dash. Both of these men are members of the class of '28. W. C. Buchanan, of Broadway, N. C., another member of the Junior class, who withdrew during the early part of last year, is also among the number of old men that are returning.

FOSTER WHEELER (Continued from page 1)

... thousands of acres of forests, and of how men in the forestry service had lost their...lives in an attempt to save these forests. Not only is this good publicity for Dick Grey, but it is also fine for the college in that the name of Davidson as producing a winning team is broadcasted throughout distant states, attracting the attention not only of athletes but of people interested in colleges and their activities. Mr. Wheeler also gave some statistics to show what the National Government, and also the various State Governments, are doing to build up and to conserve our forests, and urged the students to take more interest in this important work. He pointed out several facts to show the great amount of good which the forests do, such as returning the moisture to the atmosphere so that it may be sent back again in the form of rain, and holding the soil firm on the banks of streams and on the sides of mountains. This latter fact, Mr. Wheeler said, is of special economic importance. The great Roosevelt Dam and the dam at Muscle Shoals also are both filling up with silt, he said, and if something is not done soon to stop this, all the money which was spent, and which is being spent on these great projects, will have been thrown away. If trees were planted along the shores of these streams to hold the soil and to make it more firm, a great deal of this could be stopped. In conclusion, he quoted a few lines from the poem, “A Tree,” and expressed his appreciation for being allowed to speak to the students.

Mr. Wheeler also gave some statistics to show what the National Government, and also the various State Governments, are doing to build up and to conserve our forests, and urged the students to take more interest in this important work. He pointed out several facts to show the great amount of good which the forests do, such as returning the moisture to the atmosphere so that it may be sent back again in the form of rain, and holding the soil firm on the banks of streams and on the sides of mountains. This latter fact, Mr. Wheeler said, is of special economic importance. The great Roosevelt Dam and the dam at Muscle Shoals also are both filling up with silt, he said, and if something is not done soon to stop this, all the money which was spent, and which is being spent on these great projects, will have been thrown away. If trees were planted along the shores of these streams to hold the soil and to make it more firm, a great deal of this could be stopped. In conclusion, he quoted a few lines from the poem, “A Tree,” and expressed his appreciation for being allowed to speak to the students.

Owing to the fact that it was his first year at Davidson, Meadows played with the freshmen last season. Both of these men have been playing during the summer and are in good shape for work this spring.

INSTITUTE (Continued from page 1)
Psychology at Davidson and now with the State Department of Education, will deliver a lecture covering the various features of this field. There will also be present, aiding in the instruction, some city superintendents of schools from nearby places. The next week a study of the ministry will be undertaken, and although no speaker has as yet been chosen for that Wednesday night, it can be assured that a man with a real knowledge of his professional work will be on hand. This will absolutely not be an inspirational call for anyone, but merely the requirements, seminary work, and actual preaching as a profession will be covered in a purely practical and sound way. The law profession will be given attention the fourth week, while the following week some form of business, either banking, salesmanship, retailing or advertising will be given. For the last week for the institute’s work textile engineering, tentative as yet, will be on the schedule. Announcements as to particulars of subjects and other speakers will be given later, as will also times for meetings and other data be announced at chapel hours.

CALENDAR
Thursday, February 3
6:45—Literary Societies — Eumenean Society; Philanthropic Society.
7:30—Basketball—Duke vs. Davidson.

Friday, February 4
8:15—International Relations Club.
9:00—Alpha Phi Epsilon.

Saturday, February 5
7:30—Movie — Winning of Barbara Worth—Gym.

Sunday, February 6
1:45—Christian Endeavor Class—Shearer Hall.
2:30—Ministerial Band—Shearer Hall.
6:15—Y. M. C. A. Vespers.

Monday, February 7
7:00—Glee Club Performance—Shearer Hall.
7:30—Court of Control—Parlor of West.
9:00—Omicron Delta Kappa.

GLEE CLUB (Continued from page 1)
The entire chorus, the quartet and soloists will render selections supplemented by the jazz and symphony orchestra. Ed Wilson, one of the most gifted singers at Davidson in many years will be featured as a soloist. Ed was out of school last year and the members of the two underclasses will have their first opportunity of hearing him. He was one of the leading attractions on the stunt night program and scored a great hit at that performance. The Northern trip, scheduled to take place next week has been cancelled owing to the inability of the managers to arrange dates with the various colleges. Offers have been received from Lenoir, Spartanburg, and Greenville but as yet none have been accepted. The managers are trying to arrange other South Carolina trips in order that a trip may be taken to the Palmetto State next month. The Junior Class of Converse wished to sponsor a performance last Saturday night but this could not be arranged, because it was impossible for the club to practice during examinations. The Monday night performance promises to offer a variety of musical talent and a large attendance is expected.

On Tuesday evening, January 8th, the Civic Club will give a house warming at its new hall on South Main Street. The club moves from the old hall to the new one on Tuesday, February 1st. The village library in connection with this club will be open in the new hall at the same hours. Dr. W. L. Lingle, of Richmond, chairman of the Board of Trustees, spent Tuesday here on college business.

His courage unconquerable, his passion for work irresistible, his accomplishment not surpassed in the annals of invention, Thomas Alva Edison has achieved far more than mankind can ever appreciate. February eleventh is the eightieth anniversary of his birth. Wherever electricity is used—in homes, in business, in industry—there are hearts that are consciously grateful, that humbly pay him homage.

GENERAL ELECTRIC