8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1927

STATE AND DUKE DEFEAT WILDCATS

(Continued from page 1)

However, though Davidson’s Wildcats rallied and made a desperate effort to get into the lead, they could not overcome the
handicap of the first half. They scored thirteen points to Duke’s 27 points, ending the game with a score of
39 to 24. In this game, Bennett was largely responsible for Duke’s victory by his brilliant defensive work and his
passing, while Kelly and Weaver were the high-point men. Anderson, again, was the mainstay of the Davidson team, with Harrison
and Crawford showing up well. In all, it was a clean, fast, hard-fought game, in which the best team came
out victorious. The squad returned to Davidson Friday afternoon.

The present schedule allows for a game with Guilford on Thursday night, February 10th, and a game pending with the
Monogram Club of Charlotte at Charlotte the following week.

The line-up at the State game is as follows:

State
Ashe (2)
Spence (4)
Brown (9)
McDowell (13)
Wilson (0)
Substitutes for State: Young for Williams, Gresham for Young, Gordon for Brown (2).

Davidson
McAuley (0)
Anderson (8)
Simpson (2)
D. Harrison (5)
Substitutes Davidson: Calhoun (3) for McAuley, Crawford (2) for Harrison, Hudgins for Wilson. Referee: Parks.

The line-up at Duke:

Duke
Candler (2)
Weaver (10)
Kelly (15)
Sitt (4)
Rodger (2) for Bennett, Butler for Candler.

Davidson
McAuley (6)
Anderson (8)
Wilson (6)
Simpson (2)
Substitutes Davidson: Calhoun (1) for Harrison, Hudgins for Wilson, Crawford for Harrison. Referee: Knight.

"THE HOODOO" GIVEN

(Continued from page 1)

The first act opened with a monologue by the maid who gave a resume of preceding events. Soon the guests,
dressed in riding habits, came in, at which time nearly all the characters were introduced. The ladies went to prepare
for dinner, leaving Brighton Early and Billy Jackson, the heart-breaker, in which role J. McConnel starred. A dialogue between Early
and Jackson revealed a former love affair between Early and a Miss Dodo De Graft (Miss Elizabeth Thompson) to whom
Early had made ardent love, saying that his love for her was like an ocean with a kiss on every
wave. In the conversation, Jackson announces the unaccountable loss of his watch and several other items. Early leaves to find
a trace of the loss, leaving Jackson alone.

Doris Ruffles (Miss Susie Jackson) comes on the veranda, with whom Jackson engages in flirtation, and both go off stage.
The arrival of the new guests brings Professor Solomon Spiggot, an authority on Egypt, and cousin to Brighton Early. Hemachus
Spiggot (Billy Potts), an "ultra-educated," shy, slow-speaking lad of seventeen, accompanies his father, and his acting causes a continuous stream
of humor to flow throughout the play. The Professor gives Early a scarab or Egyptian beetle claimed to be four
thousand years old, and, according to tradition, unless it was buried for 24 hours as soon as it was received,
the recipient would be visited by the malice and disfavor of all the gods.

Detectives are called; the burglar discovered; Dodo De Graft turns out to be the wife of the burglar, losing her
claim on Early; Mrs. Spiggot is reconciled to the Professor; Billy Jackson elopes with Miss Doris Ruffles; and Brighton Early,
with an unblighted past and promising future, marries Miss Amy Lee. The performance continued for two hours, and, with a
burst of applause from an appreciative audience, closed a complete success. During the intermission, music was furnished by the Davidson
College Jazz Orchestra. Although everyone performed splendidly, those deserving special mention are: John D. McConnel, Billy Potts, James Caldwell, Elizabeth
Thompson, and Susie Jackson. Both the stage property and hand property committees functioned exceedingly well, being headed by Robert D.
Mooney and Miss Mary Grace Brown respectively.

WHICH HELPED YOU MORE?

(Continued from page 4)

When we learn that, taken together and considered as one, they constitute one of the greatest of all adventures, we
shall get a clearer idea of what college is all about. Let us realize that we play games, not to
produce championship teams, but to quicken the pulse of life and to sense the kingliness of sport in all ages;
let us realize that we work on college committees, not to be "big men," but to rub shoulders with our
fellows and to grasp something of the magic of coordinated effort; let us realize that we take courses, not to
"pass examinations," but to win through the stimulus of intellectual contact rewards that will refresh us for life.

THEATR MOORESVILLE, N.C. WEEK FEB. 14-19

Monday---The Music Master, also Big Business.
Tuesday---John Gilbert in Flesh and the Devil.
Wednesday---The Potters, with W. C. Fields.
Thursday---The Marriage Clause, with Francis X. Bushman.
Friday---Ladies at Play, also Duck Out.
Saturday---Hoot Gibson in The Buckeroo Kid by Peter B. Kyne.

Watches and Clocks
College Jewelry
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

"Since 1808 the Home of Good Shoes"

We Never Hear a Man Ask for "Just Anything" in Footwear Nowadays

Men have decidedly emphatic ideas of what they require of footwear now---and the number of satisfied Gilmer-Moore customers are continually
increasing. Have you seen our Fall lines for young men? They’re the best we’ve ever had!Egyptian gods. Early scoffs at
the statement and pins it on the lapel of his coat. From this point, the plot unravels, bringing ill luck
on all who come into possession of the scarab. Dodo De Sraft comes on the scene intending to nail Early
for $30,000.00, the price she demands for his letters to her. Early, to account for her presence to his fiancée,
says that she is Mrs. Spiggot, and begs the Professor to help him with the deception. The real Mrs. Spiggot
gets the news and comes hurrying with all the little Spiggots to Mrs. Perring- ton Shine’s. All during this time
many tales charge of the matters that their names denote. The program of the evening has not been definitely decided
upon as yet. The chairman has called a meeting and the program will be soon worked out. The only information
available at present is that there will be musical features by members of the class, a quartet, and possibly several
solos by others. The address of the evening will be made by some member of the faculty and several short
talks given by members of the class. There are certain other unique features which the chairman does not at present
care to divulge as he wishes them to be a complete surprise to everyone. The decorating committee has decided to
have the entire place arranged so that the red and black of the school will be blended with the colors
of the class of ’29. The price of the tickets has not yet been announced, pending the meeting of the
Business Committee. A flat rate on buses will probably be the manner in which the transportation is arranged.

Gilmer-Moore Company wedding gifts and personal valuables of the guests are missing which gives rise to the belief a burglar
is in the house. SHOES and sweeten the rest of our days. Then Miss Maud Vincent spent the weekend HOSIERY
LUGGAGE IMPERIAL THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY “BLONDE OR BRUNETTE” WITH ADOLPHE MENJOU GRETA NISSEN ARLETTE MARCHAL Which shall it be, gentlemen?
He couldn’t decide so he tried both. See what happens. Not a travelogue or scenic panorama, but a romance of
a boy of the 7,000,000 and a girl of the 400. with the strength for The leather enough for comfort.
TATE-BROWN CO. —A Collegiate Shoe of Par Excellence! is light necessary heavy duty — we shall perhaps react to the
intoxication arising from a mixture of zestful matters, and glide serenely over the Slough of Despond that stretches out before
those who believe that life is merely the sum of its parts. I don’t want you to think that I
am up in arms against our system of college education, I really haven’t thought very seriously about it until tonight,
and if I had the four years to live over again I should probably slip right back into the same
old grooves. Neither do I want you to think that I expect this letter to produce much of an effect
on you or anybody else. I merely want to forestall any surprise you may have, say ten years hence, when
some undergraduate editor asks you the same question, and you suddenly realize that you have come to very much the
same conclusion.

TALK ON RAILROADS Instead of holding its regular recitation, the class in Economics was addressed in its Tuesday meeting by
Mr. John H. Cobbs, of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company. Since the course in Economics 3 consists of the
study of railroad administration and transportation, an opportunity to listen to someone actually in the railroad business has been an
important need. Through the agency of the Southeastern Advisory Shipping Board, the consent of Mr. Cobbs to speak was secured.
The class was extremely fortunate in that Mr. Cobbs has much experience and knowledge of railroad problems, and was able
to give them much good advice and many pointers from his full insight and grasp of this work.

NATIONAL OFFICERS HERE The members of the local chapter of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity were agreeably surprised on Saturday
afternoon by a social visit made to them by three of the members of the Supreme Council of their fraternity.
This was quite an honor as three of them came at one time, and because a fraternity is usually considered
to be lucky when even one of their officers visits them. The names of the officers who visited the Davidson
chapter are as follows: R. A. Smythe, of Atlanta, Ga. J. L. Francis, of New York, N. Y. J. R.
Perez, of New Orleans, La.

Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 14, 15 Wednesday, Thursday, Feb. 16, 17 Charles Murray and Chester Conklin in McFadden’s Flats Friday,
Feb. 18 Mae Murray in Altars of Desire Saturday, Feb. 19 Fred Thompson in Hands Across the Border Davidson Theatre
DAVIDSON, N. C. in Sorrows of Satan
