THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 20, 1927

PLAYING THE GAME

With Withers Win and Lose Matmen Defeated Spring Football

The Wildcat basketeers took on two opponents during the past week, losing a close decision to Salisbury “Y,” the conqueror
of Carolina, and winning from Union Theological Seminary. The first of these games was hard fought, while the second was
a walk-away. Although the Salisbury “Y” affair was a tough one to lose, consolation is to be had in the
fact that Anderson, of Davidson, tossed what would have been the winning goal just after the final whistle was blown.

There was an element of the unexpected in the defeat of the matmen at the hands of State College. Indications
before the match had pointed to a Davidson victory, as did also the result of the first few matches, but
the State grapplers showed great improvement in the heavier weights and deserved their win. The superb exhibition displayed by Captain
Frierson in the first match of the evening brought to mind his record and that of Bill Cox, of last
year’s mat team. Both of these men went the season through without defeat and were placed on several all-Southern teams.

Coach Mattox led his first-year yearling quintet against Catawba College last Thursday and came from the fray victorious by a
score of 23 to 15. Pritchett and Baker starred for the Wildkittens in this contest, the former registering 8 points
to lead the field, while the latter guarded closely throughout.

Coach Younger has announced that spring football practice will commence about the first of February. “Tex” Tilson, after a somewhat
extended wedding trip, will return to the campus within the week and take charge of the squads. Spring training has
proven popular at Davidson and extremely worthwhile. Last year, several new stars were discovered during this regime and the coaches
are given an opportunity to see who's who in the freshman class.

There is an increasing demand among the leading colleges of the South to organize fencing teams. Some time ago a
group of men on the campus proposed such a squad, but since then we have heard nothing of the subject.
Have those interested become discouraged? Don't let the interest drag!

Appointing Prof. W. W. Wood, of Davidson, chairman, a group of representative men from eight Southern colleges, called together by
the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce for the purpose of forming a new athletic conference, met in the Queen City last
week. This is a forward step in the right direction, and a committee has been named to look into the
advisability of such an organization and to report to those interested.

SEVERAL NEW COURSES (Continued from page 1)

...made by a commission appointed by the Governor of North Carolina to look into county government in North Carolina will
be the main part of the work. It is also probable that new courses will be introduced in the Business,
Philosophy, Geography, and Public Speaking departments.

Although nothing definite has been found concerning the rumor that a new advanced public speaking course was being planned, it
is hoped that such a step will be taken. This course, if worked up right, would be of extreme interest
to those who need such work in preparation for their life calling.

Dr. Lingle states that no new French course will be offered but that an arrangement will be made whereby elementary
French courses will start in the mid-term so that men desiring to take the first semester over or who desire
to start the language may start in the mid-term.

Reports have not been received in the registrar’s office from all of the departments. More definite and comprehensive information can
be obtained in regard to the new courses there.

Fresh Wreck Hopes of Catawba Outfit

The Wildkitten quintet played havoc with Flake Laird’s Catawba College basketball team last Thursday night in Salisbury by a score
of 23-15. In this, the first game of the season for both teams, some loose playing was evident but for
the most part the play was fast. Close guarding featured the contest and kept the score low. Pritchett and Baker
starred for the 'Kittens while the Peeler brothers were the leaders of the Catawba aggregation. Pritchett and E. Peeler divided
high-point honors with 8 points each. Lawrence Smith played a good game at the center position, getting the tip-off almost
every time. Mauze and Moore also played consistently.

When the half ended Davidson had a two-point lead, but came back with a rush in the second period and
were soon out of danger. Dunn, of Salisbury, was the referee.

The line-up follows:
Davidson (23) Position Catawba (15)
Pritchett .......... LF .......... S. Peeler
Moore ............. RF .......... E. Peeler
L. Smith .......... C .......... Fletcher
Baker ............. RG .......... Safrit
Mauze ............. LG .......... Walker

Substitutions — Davidson: McGavock, Johnston, W. Smith. Catawba: White, Corriher, Kennerly.

Coach Mattox states that prospects are bright for a winning Fresh team this year and announces a stiff schedule of
nine games. The following teams will be played:
Wake Forest—Feb. 2—Davidson.
Oak Ridge—Feb. 7—Oak Ridge.
N. C. State—Feb. 8—Raleigh.
Wake Forest—Feb. 9—Wake Forest.
Duke—Feb. 10—Durham.
Oak Ridge—Feb. 16—Davidson.
Bingham—Feb. 17—Davidson.
N. C. State—Feb. 23—Davidson.
Catawba—Feb. 28—Davidson.

JUNIORS PREPARE (Continued from page 1)

...decided to sell the magazine this year for a nominal sum to help defray the expenses of the general program.
Glee Clubs from several neighboring institutions have made bids for performances here under the sponsorship of the Junior class and
at least one of these will appear here next month. The students are being urged to invite girls for this
event as soon as possible in order to insure a gracious feminine appearance during the Easter Week. One of the
leading interior decorators of Charlotte recently visited the campus and recommended lighting fixtures and decorations to be in keeping with
the Saturday night program at the gym. This program will be carried off in high style as in former years.

LARGE NUMBER OUT (Continued from page 1)

...of Alabama, February 14-19; University of Tennessee, February 21-26. The team will also enter the Fourth Corps Area again this
year. To climax the year’s activities, the team will enter the William Hearst Trophy Competition which included all colleges and
universities in the United States having R.O.T.C. The manner of holding these rifle matches is somewhat unusual.Instead of the teams
making long trips, as in other branches of competitive sport, they fire their scores on their home ranges and then
send individual and aggregate scores to their competitors. In this way, the winner of the match or competition is determined.

Wildcat Quintet Plays Two Games With Union Seminary and Salisbury
Drops Exciting Game to Salisbury
Smother Union Theological Seminary Saturday

The Davidson Wildcats won their third basketball contest of the season Saturday afternoon, from the Union Seminary team by the
overwhelming score of 42 to 16. The game was slow and in some parts uninteresting, due largely to looseness in
passing of both teams. The Seminary showed their lack of practice, missing many “snowbirds,” and making several wild passes. For
the Davidson team, McAuley, forward, and Anderson, guard, were the features in looping, McAuley being high-point man with 13 points,
closely followed by Anderson with 12. Calhoun, center for the visitors, was the outstanding player for the Ministers. The line-up
and summary follow:

Seminary (16) Position Davidson (42)
Redhead (5) ------ RF ------ Harrison (4)
Bradley (2) ------ LF ------ McAuley (13)
Calhoun (4) ------ Center ------ Wilson (2)
McIlhaney ------ RG ------ Anderson (12)
Gardner (1) ------ LG ------ Simpson (1)

Substitutions — Seminary: Lynn (4), Ogden. Davidson: Crawford, Calhoun (1), Sturdevant, Hudgins (7), Kugler (2). Referee: Mattox (Washington and Lee).

Myers’ field goal that swished through the nets from a difficult angle in the last few seconds of play gave
the Salisbury “Y” a 34-33 victory over the Davidson College cagers last Thursday night in Salisbury. The game was a
thriller from beginning to end, and neither team accumulated a deciding lead at any time. The half ended 19-17 in
favor of Salisbury, but Davidson came back with renewed strength in the second period and quickly swung into a 22-20
lead. The Salisburians tied the count, took the lead, and the advantage alternated throughout the rest of the game. McAuley
was the high-point scorer of the game with 12 points, while Myers and Dunham were high scorers for the “Y”.
Close guarding was a feature of the tilt, with many exceptionally good shots adding to the interest of the contest.
The line-up and summary follow:

Salisbury (34) Position Davidson (33)
Myers (10) ------ RF ------ Harrison (2)
Dunham (9) ------ LF ------ McAuley (12)
Brown (7) ------ Center ------ Wilson (5)
Schenck (6) ------ RG ------ Anderson (9)
Robertson (2) ------ LG ------ Simpson (5)

Wildcat Grapplers

The Wildcat wrestling team met defeat at the hands of the North Carolina State team last Saturday night by the
close score of 15 to 11. Davidson started out in fine style, winning three out of four of the first
matches, the other being a draw in the 128-pound class, but met disaster in the latter bouts when three straight
falls were registered by State. Superior weight and experience were the telling factors in these last tussles. The matches were
hard-fought throughout, with the result of the meet in doubt until the last fall. Results were as follows:

118 pound class—Smith, State, lost to Captain Frierson, Davidson, by fall in one minute, eight seconds.
128 pound class—Ginn, State, and Flythe, Davidson, draw, in two extra periods.
138 pound class—Leary, State, lost to Davis, Davidson, by four minutes, 52 seconds time.
148 pound class—Kellum, State, lost to Garrison, Davidson, by seven minutes, 45 seconds time.
158 pound class—Day, State, won over Alexander, Davidson, fall, 58 seconds in extra period.
175 pound class—Captain Nicholson, State, won over Crinkley, Davidson, fall, one minute 42 seconds in extra period.
Unlimited—Lamb, State, won over Vance, Davidson, fall, one minute 4 seconds.

FRESHMEN ELECT DEARMON (Continued from page 1)

of the student body, and will have a vote in all matters of student government and in the student body
elections.

INDIVIDUAL SCORING
McAuley ------------------------ 59
Anderson ------------------------ 39
Wilson ------------------------ 22
Simpson ------------------------ 10
Harrison ------------------------ 10
Hudgins ------------------------ 9
Calhoun ------------------------ 1
Opponents’ Scores ---------------- 100

DEPUTATION FROM UNION SEMINARY (Continued from page 1)

“The cross of Jesus,” said Mr. Gardner, “is always level.” The mind of the Saviour was also loving, and we
should love our Father and our neighbor. And lastly, the mind of Jesus was forgiving. He who forgave the adulteress,
saying, “Thy sins be forgiven thee,” is ready to forgive each one of us and we should do likewise to
our fellowmen. The program ended with a song, “Have Thine Own Way, Lord,” and a prayer by Mr. Jack Redhead,
a graduate of Southwestern Presbyterian University.

Dr. C. E. Raynal, of Statesville, gave an interesting lecture at the meeting of the Book Lovers’ Club last Friday.
His subject was: “Ibsen a World Power.”

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

John Macadam, of Scotland, invented the macadam road.

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Drinks Candy Smokes
Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N. C.

Substitutions—Davidson: Hudgins. Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Lance Quality Products
Delivered same day made.
LANCE PACKING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
All dealers

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Introducing to the readers of The Davidsonian
REV. R. F. CAMPBELL,
Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Asheville, N. C. since 1892. Trustee of Union Theological Seminary since 1897. Davidson College 1893.

“LAY ME DOWN TO SLEEP IN CAROLINA”

COME IN—SOON—AND HEAR THESE!
Lay Me Down to Sleep in Carolina Fox Trot With Vocal Refrain
Nat Shilkret and the Victor Orchestra
It Made You Happy When You Made Me Cry Fox Trot Vocal Refrain
Warring’s Pennsylvanians
Sadie Green, Vamp of New Orleans Fox Trot with Vocal Refrain
Coney Island Washboard Fox Trot
Five Harmoniacs
There Ain’t No Maybe in My Baby’s Eyes
No One But You Knows How to Love With Piano (The Whispering Baritone)
Jack Smith
Don’t Sing Aloha When I Go
She’s Still My Baby With String Instruments; Four Aristocrats
For My Sweetheart Piano
Just a Little Longer Piano
Frank Banta
The Sweetest Story Ever Told Violin, Flute and Harp
Simple Confession (Simple Aveu)
Neapolitan Trio
Over the Waves Piano-accordion
Sirens Waltz Piano-accordion
Mario Perry
Sweet Genevieve Peerless Quartet
Where the River Shannon Flows
Franklyn Baur

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Music Dept.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
