THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927

Court of Control Grants Plea of Freshmen to Abandon Caps

Following the precedent set in former years, the Court of Control announced last Friday, the 8th, that the freshmen would
be allowed to take off their fresh- man caps on April 15th, setting a precedent for other Courts to follow
in that it has allowed this change to be permanent. This is the first time in the history of the
“fresh cap” that the freshmen have been permitted to remove the caps this early in the year, although formerly it
has been the custom to let the freshmen take off their caps during the Easter Holidays.

This is the second regulation that has been removed from the freshmen this year. The first was taken off shortly
after the Christmas holidays; it was to allow the freshmen to walk on the path that leads from Chambers Building
to the Post Office. This regulation was not imposed upon the freshmen at the start of the year, but owing
to the failure of the Class of ’30 to comply with the orders of the Court of Control, it was
put upon them early in December.

According to “Abe” Lincoln, Judge of the Court of Control, it is a good thing. He says, “Personally, I believe
that it is a good move, it shows progressiveness and broadmindedness. Also, the cap has outgrown its usefulness; it served
its purpose in the fall which was to help the upper-classmen to recognize the freshmen and to help the freshmen
know each other and to build up a class spirit.”

The reprieve starts on Friday morning, April 15th. On this date, the freshman may legally remove his cap without fear
of getting a yellow cap instead. However, despite the removal of the cap, the freshman is still a freshman and
subject to be turned up for the weekly meeting of the Court, which will still have the power to punish
the offending freshman with a yellow cap and a few hours of walking.

This move came as the result of a petition placed before the Court of Control by the Freshman Class just
before Mid-Term Exams. The petition was held under consideration and was granted largely because the freshman class has tried to
cooperate with the Court by abiding by its regulations and has done so to such an extent that very few
yellow caps have been given since Christmas.

At the meeting of the Court of Control held Monday night, the regulation regarding the removal of the fresh caps
was amended to say that the freshmen must have their caps on “Soph Day” and wear them all day on
that date.

Campus Now Being Given Overhauling

The college authorities have certainly done their share in meeting halfway the successful attempts of Spring to make the Davidson
College campus one of the most beautiful in the South. For the past few weeks, experts and local workers have
been busy on the campus, working on the trees and grass and grading here and there, preparatory for sodding. In
short, everything possible is being done to make the campus more charming and appealing to the sense of beauty. Visualize
New Chambers completed and you will have an institution comparable and even superior in appearance to any of its size
and means.

Experts have been employed by the college to literally overhaul the trees and get them in good shape for the
spring and summer months. These tree surgeons have hollowed out the dead portions of many of the larger trees and
treated them to ensure against further decay and destruction by insects. The dead branches and larger limbs, which were not
only unsightly but dangerous, have been cut down and hauled away. The trees have been fertilized also. Thus their appearance
has been improved directly by pruning and indirectly by the use of the concentrated fertilizer. In this process, holes are
bored in large circles around the trees and the fertilizer fed to them in this manner. The grass has also
been fertilized twice.

(Continued on page 10)

Davidson Journals Originated in 1884

Probably in the minds of us, there is an idea that The Davidsonian is a first attempt at college journalism
here, merely a twelve-year-old idea. This is an error. The Davidsonian is just the fruit of what was conceived when
many of us were just seeing the light of day. The College Library contains college magazines going further back than
the first paper which we have on record. The earliest college publication that we have on record is that of
“The Davidson College Enterprise,” Volume 1, Number 27, of February 1884. There is not a complete file of this and
there is this one number only.

“The Davidson College Enterprise” was edited by R. G. Sparrow. He lived in Davidson, and before he entered college, he
edited this paper independently.

Juniors To Contest For Medal in Shearer Hall During Forenoon Friday

McKnight, Dillard, O’Neill, and Dubose Plan to Take Part in Oratorical Contest

The annual Junior Speaking contest will be held tomorrow morning in Shearer Hall. Last year the contest was won by
Harllee Branch, whose subject was “The Newer South.” Four Juniors have signified their intention of entering, with more to follow.
These men are Tyree Dillard, John McKnight, Clisby Dubose, and Camp O’Neill. A lively contest is expected along forensic lines.Assured,
Tyree Dillard, Chairman of the Oratorical Committee, has made quite a name for himself in forensic circles. During his Freshman
year, he was a member of the Freshman team, debating against Carolina here. He is a member of the Alpha
Phi Epsilon forensic fraternity. His subject is to be "Mind." Camp O'Neill has selected "Caterpillar Communism" as the subject for
his oration. This is to include a brief history of the divisions of Communism illustrated in an analysis of the
life of the International caterpillar.

"Y" Notes
The Y service during Junior Speaking will be held at the regular time on Sunday evening, but will be a
special Easter service, with special music, and held outdoors, probably in the Stadium. This will be a very unusual sort
of meeting and one that will be of interest to everyone. So don’t miss this one, because you'll certainly enjoy
it.

The installation service last Sunday was a very impressive and pretty service. The old officers pledged the incoming officers to
always keep the Y. M. C. A. really a young man’s Christian association. All of these men have had experience,
and the new cabinet and president pledged their allegiance to the Y in all its interests, and declared their intentions
to make the Y a more important part of the life of Davidson men than ever before. So the Y
is ready to start another year of service and inspiration, with the new officers eager to begin their work.

Last year O'Neill held the position of alternate in the debate against the University of Pittsburgh. DuBose and McKnight have
had experience along these lines, and all of the contestants have worked hard on the orations. This part of the
Junior Speaking is sure to be a success, aided by the example of the retiring cabinet, and backed to the
limit by the entire student body.

Professional Notices
Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65-J

DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance
Commercial National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays 12 to 2

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
Rooms 312, 313, 314, and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-3

Dr. J. R. BELL
DENTIST
Knox Bldg.
Hours 8:30-5
DAVIDSON, N. C.

If a freshman is unable to produce his fresh cap, he will be compelled to wear a fresh cap for
the rest of the year. During Junior Week, the freshmen will be allowed to walk on the grass, but this
privilege will be rescinded automatically with the resumption of classes Wednesday morning.

JUNIOR PUBLICATION
(Continued from page 1)

This publication was a four-page, four-column, twelve-inch sheet. It was written sometimes with unfortunate results, and the establishment of the
magazine as a permanent institution gives it a background and a tradition which it would not otherwise have. Printing of
the magazine has been done entirely by Charlotte firms, having been divided between the Queen City Printing Co., the Charlotte
Engraving Co., and the Bierman Engraving Co.

Hitting Features Work of 1924 Team

W. E. PRICE
30 W. 5th St.

WHEN Greek or calculus gets you into a tight corner, tie a tin to trouble—a tidy red tin of Prince
Albert! Tamp a load of this really friendly tobacco into the bowl of your jimmy-pipe and light up. Watch the
sun crash through the clouds with every puff! P. A. can’t bite your tongue or parch your throat, no matter
how fast you feed it, because the Prince Albert process gave Bite and Parch the air at the start. Cool
as a Laplander’s lap. Sweet as apple cider. Fragrant as spring blossoms. That’s Prince Albert! One pipe-load invites another. And...
you can hit P. A. from morning till midnight and it won’t hit back. Don’t put off to tomorrow what
you can smoke today. Get a tidy red tin of P. A. and turn on the sunshine... now!

PRINCE ALBERT —no other tobacco is like it!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

P.A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top.
And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.

W. E. PRICE INSURANCE AGENCY
“PROTECTION PLUS SERVICE”

R. L. PRICE Tre.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
