8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 12, 1927

NEW YORKER WINNER OVER STORY WRITERS

Cornell Woolrich, twenty-one years old and a resident of New York City, has been awarded the first prize of $10,000
for the best story submitted in the competition recently conducted by College Humor and First National Pictures. Both the established
and unknown writer entered work on an equal footing, although the tyro especially was urged to enter. The contest closed
February 1, 1927, and thousands of manuscripts were considered. Either a short story, a novelette, or a novel was eligible
to win the prize. “Children of the Ritz,” by Cornell Woolrich, is a full-length novel. It will appear in College
Humor beginning with the August issue. Following that, Boni & Liveright will issue it in book form, and First National
Pictures will make a feature photoplay of it. Much critical attention will be turned upon it, and it is almost
certain to establish the writing reputation of young Woolrich.

It was particularly gratifying to officials of the magazine and film corporations to know that a young writer had done
the trick. His ironic romance, laid in New York and smart Long Island, is delightfully paced; it is the story
of a wealthy girl who married a poor boy and pulled down on her head an avalanche of newspaper publicity.
The theme is the difficulty of marrying happily out of your own class because of different traditions and backgrounds.

Concerning himself, the author has this to say: “I was twenty-one last December, which means I was born in 1906—for
no good purpose. Most likely I was God’s gift to the Gibson girl, only the Gibson girl didn’t know it.
I was a baby for some time, until finally I began to get ideas of my own. One of these
ideas had to do with my hair; I didn’t like the way it was cut. I wanted a boy’s haircut
or I wouldn’t play. It was my hair and I was going to do what I wanted with it. To
cure me they took me down to Mexico, where haircuts are haircuts (witness the Chihuahua species).

“I was eight when I got there, and I saw bullfights, jumping beans, and the marines in Vera Cruz. When
the Marines went home I forgot my slang I picked up once in a while, and our Fifth Avenue buses
on Prado (with American advertisements still inside the racks). You'd be surprised how slick those buses can look when you’ve
been away for ages.

“When I left Havana I hit the Bahamas, but not too hard—they bruise so easily. I stayed there until I
could look a grapefruit in the face. Finally, I came home (it was about time to get educated, I suppose)
and had to switch languages again.

“I entered Columbia in 1922. The next year I took John Erskine’s course in advanced prose. One night I was
unprepared so I improvised a section of an imaginary novel and sent it in for camouflage. Weeks later when he
read it before the class, I didn’t recognize it as my own. When he had traced it to its source
he gave me one of those where-have-you-been-all-my-life looks and mentioned something about there being more joy in heaven over one
repentant sinner, etc. Before I could go ahead the semester was over. I waited a year without doing anything. The
following spring while I was recovering from an illness that kept me out of school six months I did “Cover
Charge” (Boni & Liveright) and that novel came out a full year after that, when I was twenty.

“There’s absolutely nothing else, except that writing is the most important and wonderful thing in the world.”

She was only an artist’s daughter but she could draw a crowd.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING Charlotte, N.C.

Davidson Theatre DAVIDSON, N. C.

Saturday, May 21 Tom Tyler in A Rip Roaring Western

Monday-Tuesday, May 16-17 Madge Bellamy in The Telephone Girl

Wednesday-Thursday, May 18-19 Clara Bow in Rough House Rosie

Friday, May 20 Jetta Goudal in Vanity

Reid is Chosen to Head Biology Club

At a recent meeting of the Biology Club, the officers for the coming year were elected, and the necessary business
was conducted. Reid was chosen president, Bill Wilkinson, vice-president, and Brownie Bradford, secretary and treasurer.

Several weeks before this meeting, a number of men were extended bids to membership in the Biology Club. These bids
were extended in the same manner as those of the International Relations Club. A paper on some subject, either selected
by the club or left to the discretion of the new members, was required for admission.

Senior Class Holds Successful Smoker

On last Friday night, May 6th, the Seniors entertained themselves with a smoker, which had been looked forward to with
much anticipation and interest. Nor were the seniors disappointed; the evening will be looked back on and remembered with fondness
by the outgoing seniors. Not one went away with a feeling that the evening had been wasted. Joe McConnell, the
president of the class, was the shining light of the evening, acting in the capacity of Toast Master. The courses
were excellent, the speeches were fine, the music was very enjoyable.

Charlotte Transfer Company PHONE 298 BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

RESOLUTION

At the business meeting this afternoon the North Carolina Academy of Science passed the following resolution:

“Resolved, that the North Carolina Academy of Science express its hearty thanks to Davidson College for its generous hospitality; and
especially to the following: Messrs. H. B. Arbuckle, W. L. Porter, J. M. Appleby, S. C. Lyon, and O. J.
Thies, Jr., chairmen of committees, to Mr. Ernest Milton of the Press Bureau of Publicity, to the Beavers Club, the
Quadranglers Club, to the Y. M. C. A. and to all who have opened their homes to the members of
the Academy.”

H. R. Totten, Secretary.

1st Stone—“The boss bawled me out this morning about my lipstick.”

2nd Stone—“I guess I'll have to get some of the kind that doesn’t come off.”

“Sap, poppa.”

“What is it, sonny?”

“Do all dental students look down in the mouth?”The decision of the prospective member was to be written. These papers,
when submitted, were closely graded, and those considered best were chosen. The writers of these papers were extended bids, and
at an appointed meeting, the papers are read before the assembled members of the club.

While this meeting was for the express purpose of electing new officers, several other important matters were discussed. The constitution,
which was indefinite on several statements, was changed, with many improvements being made. Jim Reid was selected as the Biology
Club representative in the Honorary Fraternity Council.

Men who were recently initiated are: M. P. Crawford, Duncan McEachern, G. S. McSwain, C. R. Rowe, and D. G.
Shaw. Another smoker has been arranged for the near future.

Disgusted lady—“Does mother know you smoke?”
Small boy—“Does your husband know you speak to strange men in the street?”

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks

Town News
Mrs. Ernest Beaty has returned from a ten-day visit to her mother, Mrs. Clark, in Elizabethtown, N.C. Misses Mary and
Lizzie Young spent several days last week with their aunt, Mrs. Smith, in Charlotte, N.C. The Auxiliary celebrated its annual
birthday last Thursday at 4:00 p.m., in the basement of the Presbyterian Church. A pageant was given, and the collection
went to the Kwangju, Korea, school for girls.

Prof. and Mrs. G. R. Vowles and their son Richard took a trip to Greenville, S.C. Mrs. Graham, the S.A.E.
house mother, accompanied them as far as Greenville, and then she went on to Laurens, S.C., where she spent a
few days.

Fresh Ball Team Wins from Catawba
On Tuesday, May 3rd, the Davidson Wildkittens defeated the Catawba baseball team by a score of 7 to 2. The
game was played in Salisbury where the Kittens came from Durham after their game with the Duke Freshmen. “Doc” Henderson
and “Chick” Williams comprised the freshman battery in the Catawba-Davidson game. White and Klutz pitched for Catawba and Holshouser caught
them up. White pitched the first eight innings but after allowing eight hits, five of which were given in the
eighth inning, he was taken out and Klutz pitched the remaining inning, allowing four hits. “Doc” Henderson pitched the whole
game for Davidson, allowing eight hits. Cox of Davidson substituted for Kilgore at shortstop. Kilgore was changed to second where
Parish had been playing. Kilgore of Davidson was high-point man, making two runs out of four times at bat. Parish
of Davidson got two runs out of five times at bat. Smith of Catawba led in the hitting with three
first hits out of four times at bat.

“I hear that you lost your valuable little dog.”
“Yes, in a railroad accident. I escaped but the dog was killed.”
“What a pity.”

Professional Notices
Phones: Office, 588—Residence, 65
DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street
Statesville, N.C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays 12 to 2

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314, and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N.C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-3

Dr. J. R. BELL
DENTIST
Knox Bldg.
Hours 8:30-5
Davidson, N.C.

The juniors of the Davidson High School entertained the seniors with a party at the Carolina Theater Thursday night. After
the show, they returned to the home of Miss Daisy Caldwell and enjoyed the rest of the evening on the
lawn. Refreshments were served, and a number of games were played.

The Sorosis Club held their last meeting at Mida Springs Friday afternoon, and a delightful picnic was enjoyed immediately after
the regular meeting. Mrs. Rodgers, the Pi Kappa Phi house mother, was called to Laurens, S.C., on account of the
death of her brother.

Miss Mary Hamilton, of Converse College, is at home for the weekend, visiting her parents. The Civic Club gave a
delightful reception to the graduating class of the high school and the faculty Saturday evening in the Civic Hall. Miss
Lillie Helper, of High Point, N.C., spent last weekend in Davidson visiting her father, Mr. H. P. Helper.

The people of Davidson are glad to hear of the wedding of Miss Ruth Hill to Mr. Maurice Yeargan, who
graduated from Davidson in the class of ’26. They were married at the home of Miss Hill last Friday evening.
The newlywed couple have gone to Texas to live for the summer. They will return to Columbia Seminary next year
where Mr. Yeargan has been for the past year.

Mr. and Mrs. Rogers, of Greenville, S.C., spent the weekend in Davidson with his mother. The grammar grades of the
Davidson high school gave a play Friday night in the high school building, entitled, “America in the Making.” Also, a
play was given by the senior class of the grammar school entitled “New Adventures in Flower Land.” The ones taking
part did exceedingly well, and the teachers are also due a compliment on the way that the plays were coached.

Blue Flannel Coat With White Trousers, $21.50. A feature in this sale: Smart, well-tailored blue flannel coats and white flannel
trousers, excellent quality, specially priced $21.50.
