THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 20, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief: HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.
Business Manager: VERNON S. BROYLES

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor: W. LIN G. WINS
Assistant Managing Editor: BOYCE MARTIN
Associate Editor: ELBY
Alumni Editor: D. M. CALHOUN
Exchange Editor: H. L. SHELBY
Humorous Editor: D. M. CALHOUN
Assignment Editor: W. S. GORDON
Feature Editor: B. F. AON
Inquiring Reporter: T. PONDS

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager: DOUGLASS
Assistant Business Manager: W.
Assistant Business Manager: W.
Subscription Manager: W.
Circulation Manager: W.
Service Manager: W.

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
A. N. BROWN
R. H. McILWAINE
J. L. ELY
J. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH
A. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD
B. WILSON
J. R. WEAVER
B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

It is said that it is more blessed to give than to receive. If so, the donor of the hundred-thousand
dollars to Davidson College must be enjoying a great degree of blessedness. But, with all his blessedness, he can’t be
enjoying any more pleasant sensations than those now being enjoyed by the recipients of his generous gift.

We have just read some editorial comment in the student newspaper at the University of Alabama anent Alabama’s great football
team, which won national pre-eminence by its last-minute comeback in the Rose Bowl game last Christmas day when the red-jerseyed
Alabama players held the Stanford eleven to a draw. We rejoice with the Alabama editor in the fine playing of
Dixie’s most outstanding team, and beg to remark that at last the Crimson Tide.

A TESTED PERIOD

Mid-year examinations, with all the mental tortures that they suggest, are with us again. A small group of seniors, sufficiently
foresighted to have applied themselves during the fall semester, have won the coveted exemption grade, and have departed to distant
places to celebrate their good fortune. But, for the great mass of students—freshmen, sophomores, and juniors—no such privilege is offered.
Theirs is a matter of compulsion, not of choice. To many of them, no doubt, examinations will prove more than
a mere matter of compulsion; to some, they will mean disappointment and remorse.

It seems almost inconceivable that examinations in two short weeks should claim such a great number of student casualties. An
excessively large percentage of underclassmen, who have failed to apply themselves energetically and faithfully to their scholastic duties during the
four months preceding examination, find themselves confronted almost overnight with the prospect of failure and dismissal from college. The grim
prospect of failure to many of these precipitates and leads to the very failures that they fear. Disconcerted by harassing
memories of time wasted, they become despondent and sometimes indifferent. As a consequence, they fail to stage the comeback that
might mean their salvation.

Then, too, there is a smaller group of fellows, whose success during the fall months has resulted in a false
estimate of their ability to get by. To these, examinations hold no scare. They are too apt to rest on
their laurels. Their success or failure will depend, in a large measure, on the degree to which these men trust
to luck. Scholastic conceit, based on the assumption that good grades in the past are sufficient, leads quite often to
laziness during examinations—and ultimately to failure. Failures under such unfortunate circumstances only magnify the student’s disappointment.

Examinations, in spite of statements to the contrary, are valuable in that they present tests of both character and knowledge.
It is said that examination grades are poor indications of what a student knows, or of what he has learned.
Be that as it may. No one can deny that they are true tests of the student’s ability to express
himself clearly and concisely, of the student’s ability to distinguish between the important and the unimportant, of his ability to
understand, of his qualities of mental control, of his willingness to undergo actual inconveniences for the sake of knowledge, of
his energy, and of his honesty.

The man who hopes to make a good grade on his examinations must first learn self-control. He must develop the
ability to contrast the worthwhile and the useless, the important and the unimportant. He must learn to express his thoughts,
his ideas, and his knowledge with clearness and brevity. He must attain such a degree of mental control that he
will be able to concentrate on the task at hand, forgetting for the while all inhibiting thoughts. Finally, he must
be honest. He must neither attempt to fool himself nor his professor; he must not yield to wordiness and other
forms of dishonesty, perhaps worse, in an effort to make it seem that he knows more than is actually the
case.

Industry, ambition, determination, concentration, and honesty. These are the attributes of the good student. An examination reveals the extent to
which they are possessed—and failure awaits the student who neglects these traits. Examinations are tests of character and of knowledge.

SELLING DIPLOMAS

At last someone has challenged the prevailing practice of selling “college education” to students for less than cost and making
up the deficit with million-dollar endowments. Trevor Arnett, authority on college finance, who presented an alternative plan to the American
Association of Colleges at Chicago last week, declares that the failure to apply business-like financing principles to the administration of
American colleges is one of the greatest evils in the whole scheme of our higher educational system.

According to Mr. Arnett, who seems to know what he is talking about, tuition fees should be raised gradually until
they approach the actual cost of college courses. Mr. Arnett, who gave up the vice-presidency of the University of Chicago
to accept his present position with the Rockefeller Foundation, insists that “cost price education” is an emphatic need in America
today. Many students can afford to pay in full, even though the actual cost is about three times the fee
now charged, he declared. No worthy student, he adds by way of explanation, should be excluded simply because he cannot
meet the increased cost of education. To enable the student to pay the proportion of the cost of education chargeable
to him, generous use should be made of scholarships, student aid, and loans. Money now given for endowments would naturally
be attracted to these funds.

This new form of “cost price education” would apply chiefly to undergraduates in the colleges of liberal arts, state-supported as
well as privately endowed, where the greatest influx of students is taking place. The graduate school situation is different and
could well be handled differently, Mr. Arnett indicated.

Student fees in American colleges are only 31 percent of the receipts for current expenses, he estimated. Some colleges have
been forced to appeal to students to pay the difference if they felt they could afford it. According to Mr.
Arnett, “this is just as if a merchant would put a price tag on a garment for $45 and would
say to his customer, ‘This cost me $50. If your conscience bothers you, you can pay the full price.’ Who
would be inclined to pay? On the other hand, if colleges send to these students a bill for the full
cost, they will get no come-back except in money.”

The pay-in-full plan would have a wholesome effect on the colleges. It would make them more efficient in their own
financing since excessive expenditures show up quickly in fairly computed tuition fees. Parents and students, too, would get a clear
understanding of what college education costs, and since they would have to pay more for it, the desire to obtain
an education would more than likely be a serious one. Mr. Arnett indicated these things in his address.

The unhappy result of the present method of financing colleges was summarized by Otis E. Randall, dean of Brown University,
who declared that “we are turning out the most valuable product in the world for one-third the cost. The world
will not appreciate the product until it pays a price comparable to that of the other desired things in life.”

The Changing College
By WALTER R. AGARD, Dean of St. John’s College, Annapolis, Md.

Editor’s Note: This is the first installment of a series of articles now appearing in the Christian Science Monitor, one
of the nation’s most widely read newspapers. Believing that the articles will be of particular interest to college students and
faculty members, The Davidsonian will reprint them. This will be done through the courtesy of the Monitor. Here is the
first of Dean Agard’s articles: WhoShould Go to College?

Americans are just beginning to realize how much the colleges of the United States have been changing in the past
20 years. Rather uncritically, the college, which should be the home of criticism, has grown, like other American institutions, in
size of plant and personnel, in administrative machinery, in complexity. One can picture the consternation of the first faculties of
Harvard or William and Mary, should they return today and see the thousands of students and hundreds of courses in
Cambridge and Williamsburg; one can imagine Thomas Jefferson discussing college policies with an alumni secretary or a graduate manager of
athletics. For aims and methods have changed no less than material equipment.

But the period of uncritical expansion is nearing an end. Sheer increase in numbers of students seeking admission to college
has forced administrators and teachers to analyze more acutely than ever the function and procedure of college training. What is
the essential responsibility of the college in our social scheme? Who should go to college? What should they do there,
and how should they do it? What does the college owe its alumni and other adult learners? These are questions
which are being earnestly reconsidered today in the United States by such gatherings of teachers as the Association of American
Colleges, the Association of American University Professors, and various regional and departmental societies. They are being considered quite as earnestly
by undergraduates, whose interest in the problems of their own education is constantly becoming keener. The culmination of many smaller
conferences was the recent meeting of the National Student Federation at Ann Arbor, with some 200 colleges and universities represented.
There, questions of curriculum and teaching, as well as student activities, were vigorously debated. As a result of these discussions,
what answers are being given? In these articles, I shall review some which seem especially important, and indicate further steps
which may be significant.

Responsibility of the College

What is the responsibility of the college in our social scheme? Here there seems to be a consensus among teachers
and thoughtful students. The college has been for too long regarded as a social, business, and athletic club, and has
tolerated and graduated men who have failed conspicuously to develop intellectual interests and enthusiasms. The college does not exist to
prepare men for country-club membership, business success, or social acceptability. Its purpose is primarily intellectual, and, in a broad sense,
moral; to furnish our civilization with men trained and eager to make living more intelligent, to control rationally all important
social projects and policies, to replace crass satisfactions with sensitive discrimination. I know of no fairer statement than that formulated
in the Dartmouth undergraduate report to President Hopkins:

“It is the purpose of the college to provide a selected group of men with a comprehensive background of information
about the world and its problems, and to stimulate them to develop their capacity for rational thinking, philosophic understanding, creative
imagination, and aesthetic sensitiveness, and to inspire them to use these developed powers in becoming leaders in service to society.”

If this is to be accepted as the function of the college, how shall students be selected? This has become
an acute problem in the past 20 years. Statistics compiled by the Association of American University Professors show that from
1900 to 1910 collegiate enrollment in this country increased 85 percent, while population increased only 21 percent; the corresponding figures
from 1910-1920 were 96 percent and 14.9 percent. The college population in this country doubled within 10 years! Boys who
would never have dreamed of going to college 20 years ago now have the means and the desire to go.
Do they seek the gifts the colleges ought to be offering?

For some time, colleges were only too glad to grow. Size here, as elsewhere, appeared to be an index to
success. But at last, faculties have begun to realize the liabilities of size. Education has become watered down when great
numbers of boys, differing widely in ability and ambition, have been grouped together for mass instruction; incoherence of program and
mechanical standardization of method have supplanted the former values of small communities devoted to well-understood aims and taught by men
who knew their students. So, there has arisen a demand for limiting the size of entering classes, and for imposing
more rigid requirements on those who wish to come. Where formerly colleges would accept all boys certified from secondary schools
in good standing, now in many cases only the upper third or quarter of the graduating class is acceptable. Many
colleges insist upon examining all boys who seek admission. Still others give psychological tests as well. More and more colleges
use personal-rating blanks, in which a boy’s character and capacity for leadership are investigated as well as his scholarship. Boys
who fail to secure admission to the more selective colleges, of course, still find it possible to enter less exacting
ones. There are very few boys eager to go to college who cannot do so.

More Should Have Opportunities

Should we go farther and say that a large proportion of these boys ought never to enter college at all?
Percy Marks voices the view of many teachers when he states that less than half of the undergraduates now in
our colleges are intellectually able to profit from a true college course. With this point of view, I cannot agree.
It is not true that too many of our boys go to college. We need to have more, rather than
less, receive the broadening of mental horizon and the awakening of intellectual interests which colleges should give. The fact is,
not that too many go, but that they stay too long and fail while there to get what their capacity
fits them for. The college has gone on the assumption that the men it admits should stay for four years.
This, it seems to me, is a mistake. A large proportion of the boys admitted to college waste their own
time and that of the institution in remaining more than two years. Every high school graduate of average intelligence and
ambition should receive the general background of knowledge, and the cultivation of intellectual interests and standards, which the college may
be expected to give during the first two years. At the end of that period, most students should go to
professional, business, and trade schools, where specialized work on a relatively low plane is required. Only those who are intellectually
of high caliber should be kept by the college for the higher quality of work which juniors and seniors should
be asked to do, in preparation for the higher professional schools.

Double Advantage

A double advantage would ensue. First, as many boys as possible would profit from the training which such a general
course offers. In an age of narrow specialization, with intolerance and bigotry often in seeming control of social situations, it
is of the first importance that communities should have as many men as possible so trained. Colleges which refuse to
offer this opportunity generously are failing to fulfill their social responsibility. An excellent example of the need for such education
may be seen in the two American service schools, the Military and Naval Academies. There, at the present time, thousands
of high school boys of average intelligence are launched upon a highly specialized career, without having secured the fundamental cultural
background which will enable them properly to appreciate their opportunities of travel, or to represent their country with distinction in
times of peace. They have been made to sacrifice breadth of training for the sake of specialization which is narrow
and excessive, if the opinion of Admiral Sims be accepted. His recommendation of a real college curriculum for men in
the service, with intensive technical instruction chiefly at the end, seems a sound one.

Second, the colleges would gain by graduating at the end of the sophomore year all those men who now impede
the progress of both teachers and able students in the honor work which should be done the final two years.
Our colleges today are full of men just able to “get by,” and satisfy the minimum requirements for graduation. By
all means, give these men a diploma at the end of their sophomore year; and by all means, forbid them
to remain in college any longer.

“Who should go to college?” As many average American boys as the colleges can arrange to teach. “Who should stay
in college?” After the sophomore year, only those who are exceptionally able and ambitious.

We see by the papers where three New York college boys, home for the Christmas holidays, grew despondent over life
and committed suicide. Well, that’s three New Yorkers, at least, who didn’t die of bootleg poisoning during Christmas.

One billion gallons of oil is available in the Deep River mining areas of North Carolina, according to the finding
of a chemistry professor at the University of North Carolina. Judging from that, everything will be oil right.

There is something mighty attractive about Will Rogers, world-renowned humorist and cowboy philosopher. Folks who heard the self-styled diplomat in
Charlotte Wednesday evening agree that his frankness and sincerity add much to the quality of his humor. He is the
only mayor in America who is intentionally funny.
