4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. ................... Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES .................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. LINGLE .................. Managing Editor
BOYCE MARTIN .......... Managing Editor
F. C. WITHERS .......... Athletic Editor
BUFORD WEBB .......... Associate Editor
H. L. DISBROW .......... Alumni Editor
D. M. CALHOUN .......... Exchange Editor
H. S. SHUEY .......... Humorous Editor
D. M. CALHOUN .......... Alumni Editor
W. S. GORDON .......... Assignment Editor
B. B. JONES .......... Feature Editor
T. T. JONES .......... Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF
E. L. DOUGLASS .......... Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD .......... Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN LAKE .......... Assistant Business Manager
J. A. McALPINE .......... Subscription Manager
W. A. SMITH .......... Circulation Manager
ABERNETHY .......... Service Manager

Reporters’ Club
C. C. MURCHISON
C. R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
R. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
A. N. BROWN
R. H. McILWAINE
J. L. ELY
J. P. McKNIGHT
L. WADSWORTH
A. M. SPARROW
TYREE DILLARD
B. WILSON
J. R. WEAVER
B. F. McQUEEN

EDITORIAL

A two weeks’ trip to Central America at the expense of the Costa Rican Government has been refused by the Tulane University Glee Club. A tour of the region including Louisiana and vicinity will be taken next summer.

Miss Jessie H. Wood, of Seymour, Connecticut, has the honor of being the only woman in the College of Technology at the University of Maine. She has received her degree of Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering.

George Laird made a novel deposit in November. He put $25.00 in a savings bank, at interest for one hundred years, with instructions that the money be used at its maturity in the furtherance of education for Cedar Rapids children. The $25.00 will amount to more than $4,000.00 at the end of that period.

A college education does not make a woman unfit for marriage and a home, but makes her more able to create a home through higher learning is the opinion of Dr. Nancy E. Scott, in the Sociological Journal.

Abraham Kalom, a forty-five-year-old Russian immigrant who supports his wife and three children by raising sugar beets, is enrolled as a Freshman at Northwestern.

When Orville Morrow of the University of Tennessee decides to go home to see his family he just flies over. He has his own airplane and is an expert pilot.

MORE SCHOLARS NEEDED

The American colleges’ demand upon promising young scholars for an undue amount of rudimentary teaching is crippling many in their pursuit of higher scholarship and seriously hampering the advancement of learning here, according to Dr. Frederick J. E. Woodbridge, dean of the faculties of Political Science, Philosophy, and Pure Science at Columbia University.

Dean Woodbridge’s annual report, made public yesterday by President Nicholas Murray Butler, contained a plea for more deliberate training of scholars. “An unhappy contrast between a reputation for teaching and a reputation for scholarship exists in all our universities,” the dean declared, “to the detriment of science.” As a result of this, he asserted, young instructors were coming to the age of forty with no greater claim to full professorships than length of service and academic usefulness.

“We have, I fear, fallen into the habit of relying too much on the normal progress of academic promotions, expecting young men to work their way up from instructors of undergraduates, to the position of university professors,” the report says. “There is much to be said for a training of this sort. It is solid and conservative. It has, however, a defect which is serious when there is such an active demand for young men who will give the greater part of their time to teaching the elementary courses in their subjects. It tends to delay consistent scholarly development. Too many young men with ambition aroused by graduate study and with ability clearly demonstrated go into academic positions where they have no real scholarly co-operation with their elders and no real opportunity to show what is in them. Our organization is apt to get in the way of this. They do not become better teachers simply by being expected to teach.

“When we say ‘instructor’ we are apt to think of a teaching job and not a university opportunity. And an instructor is lucky if, by going through the academic routine, he is regarded as professorial material at the age of forty.

“I confess my own obtuseness in yielding to this superstition of age, and may be pardoned for saying that I am abashed by it when I remember that I came to Columbia as professor at the age of thirty-five, but now look upon instructors of that age as doubtful professorial material.”

Some of the Columbia departments, Dean Woodbridge points out, have met the difficulty by providing for their instructors a limited amount of graduate work. He thinks, however, that they have not gone far enough.

Dean Woodbridge asks that the Department of Fine Arts be accorded graduate recognition, saying that “fine arts in our universities have been usually too much of an academic Cinderella, fancifully slippered on occasions.” He also urges more adequate provision for the Department of Chinese, left in need by the death of Professor Thomas F. Carter—New York Times.

COLLEGE OR COUNTRY CLUB?

Recently the college—particularly the eastern ones—have been telling their troubles to the newspapers. Two things, it appears, are worrying them: first, the tendency of athletics to become the chief preoccupation of those youth who are sometimes ironically called “students” and, second, the fact that more people are clamoring for entrance than the colleges can possibly, for their own good, attempt to educate.

Various criteria for selection, ranging all the way from the relative attractiveness of the candidates as revealed by their photographs and family trees to rigidly prepared psychological examinations, have been suggested but all have their defects. And yet the double dilemma is much like that which faced the legendary Pullman porter who discovered one morning that he had two pairs of mismated shoes: one need only put the two problems together to find the solution.

If, for example, Harvard really wishes a small and select group of students who are attracted only by the fame of her professors and the opportunities which she offers for the acquirement of learning and culture, then let her simply abolish intercollegiate athletics for four years by way of an experiment. No one can doubt that the immediate result would be the reduction of the freshman class to a manageable size, and no one can maintain that any hardship would be done. It is highly probable that there are many worthy students of unlovely feature and unimpressive ancestry; it is also highly probable that psychological tests do not furnish a perfect criterion of that complexity of qualities which make the scholar or the genius; but no man who refuses an opportunity to go to college because he is denied the privilege of enjoying the hysterics induced by a cheerleader can maintain that he is being denied his inalienable right to the development of his mind. And as to the sound mind in a sound body, there are other and more efficacious ways of cultivating it than are afforded by intercollegiate football.

The fact is that the colleges have brought their problem upon themselves and that they have no good excuse for complaint. They have themselves elaborated the social aspects of college life, they have deliberately made the universities as attractive as possible to those who have scant interest in things intellectual, and then they bemoan the fact that they are besieged by hordes of not very serious-minded youths. What, we wonder, do they expect, when they pay five times as much for a coach as for a professor and spend ten times as much for a stadium as for a laboratory? The game which one takes is bound to depend upon the bait which one uses, and a man who opened a golf course would not be surprised to find that those who came to play were not particularly interested in metaphysics. Obviously the way to attract a group of students capable of profiting by a college education is to run a college, not a country club, and we are willing to wager that at the present moment the classrooms and the faculties of American institutions are amply sufficient to give such an education to all who really want it—The Nation.

Here and There Among the Colleges
(Interesting Bits of Information Gleaned From Student Journals)

Co-operating with the college Y. M. C. A., the Athletic Board at Lawrence College has organized a “Knothole Club.” The members of the club are boys picked from the Appleton Junior High Schools. Through this new organization its members are permitted to pass “free” into the stadium of Lawrence College to witness all intercollegiateAthletic contests waged upon the Lawrence gridiron and diamond. The club is designed to break up an old practice among high school students of “sneaking” into the games. The three stipulations that accompany the admittance of the boys are that they march to the field in a body; occupy a single reserved section of the stands; and remain in their places throughout the game. The club has its own cheerleader and yells, and at a recent homecoming game, the high school boys are said to have literally drowned out the entire crowd with their yelling.

At Berkeley Divinity School in Middletown, Conn., the entire student body participates at odd moments in manual tasks to earn money. All that is earned is put into a common purse, from which each draws according to his individual needs. The professors also contribute all they can earn aside from their salaries. Each student does that particular manual work to which he is best fitted.

Lawrence Hughes, a student at Evansville (Indiana) College, lays claim to a new sort of collegiate championship. He claims the dishwashing championship of Evansville College, earning the title by washing himself through college. He has washed approximately 36,000 dishes in one college year and in so doing has broken but eight. Added to this accomplishment is the further information that he can clear tables, wash and dry 110 dishes and put them away in forty-five minutes.

Henry Ford has recently received the degree of Doctor of Engineering from the University of Michigan. The degree, the only one ever accepted by a Detroit manufacturer, was “in recognition of his material contribution to social welfare and his constructive imagination in the field of industry.”

Thirty-four types of religious belief are represented among students at the University of Chicago, it was disclosed in a survey made by the Y. M. C. A. A total of 4,045 named their beliefs and 1,069 stated they had no preference. Confucianism, Buddhism, Friends, Latter Day Saints, Nestorianism, the Ethical Culture society, and the Salvation Army were listed as having members in college.

Members of the National Federation of Filipino Students, numbering about five thousand, have signed a pledge to teach at least one illiterate adult every year. The textbooks are in preparation for use in the campaign.

The Changing College
By WALTER R. AGARD, Dean of St. John’s College, Annapolis, Md.

In the old days, the recognized aim of American colleges was to prepare men to enter the Christian ministry, which then meant the intellectual leadership of their communities. That same general aim persisted until well toward the twentieth century. But since 1900 a decided change has taken place, as a result of the accelerated industrial pace in the United States. A large proportion of college students now come from the homes of businessmen, and often as high as 80 percent of the graduates of a class enter business. Relatively a small number go into the professions and the arts.

This change in student personnel is simply one indication of the imposition of business standards upon the college. Modern business methods have been adopted by administrators; the president of a college has the same problems to face as the president of an industrial concern, and has learned to solve them in much the same way. Whatever his previous training may have been, he becomes primarily a businessman when he is made a college president. His chief task is actually the raising of money; in many cases, he has never been a teacher, and knows little of what teaching means. It is an anomaly, indeed, that such men should direct the policies of institutions of learning.

Our teachers, too, are sometimes more successful from a business than a pedagogical standpoint. They prepare neatly arranged courses, which are neatly passed by efficient students; beautifully kept records accumulate in the registrar’s office until there are sufficient to justify the awarding of a neat diploma. Here is all the paraphernalia of industrial efficiency. The traditional academic virtues (and, after all, we sometimes forget that colleges are academic institutions) of scholarly leisure and contemplation, of intellectual curiosity and enthusiasm, have been run out by the efficiency expert. Main Street and Wall Street are extended up the slopes of Parnassus.

Reaction Setting In

The reaction to business domination in our colleges is now fortunately setting in. There is open revolt among the students against business control of faculties, of faculties’ business control of students, of alumni’s business control of undergraduate athletics. Perhaps with such chivalrous support, our teachers will yet insist that the colleges shall be restored to their proper function. What that function is we have already stated: to arouse in students intellectual interests and enthusiasms, to help them forge for themselves a philosophy of life. Students, during their college days, must become, not businessmen, but philosophers.

The attitude of wonder is the basis of philosophy, according to Aristotle. Intellectual humility is the first characteristic of the philosopher, likewise of the saint, and of the child. The attainment of intellectual humility is the first aim of the college. The second characteristic of the philosopher is his eagerness to relate the divergent aspects of life and see them, not as isolated fragments of knowledge, but as an understandable whole. This, too, is an aim of the college. The college must not be content to give students “courses;” it must make them aware of the great tide of human achievement, and of their own relation to it.

How are such aims to be realized? How are our college boys to be made philosophically minded?

Association With Philosophers

There is only one answer: by association with philosophers, with men who themselves possess abounding intellectual curiosity and liberal-mindedness and power of synthesis. We may talk of the ideals of teaching and the methods of teaching until we “tire the sun with talking, and send him down the sky;” only as we have teachers who, in the words of Anatole France, can “set the spark to the spirit,” shall we stimulate undergraduates to real intellectual growth.

There are two types of teachers which colleges should resolutely avoid. First is the specialist of university type, who knows his small field thoroughly, but knows nothing else—certainly not boys! The other is the dilettante, who knows “less and less of more and more,” whose intellectual caliber is such that he cannot be respected by the abler students. The college must have teachers who know their subjects, are keeping abreast of discovery in them, perfectly engaging in a certain amount of research, but who are also vitally interested in the relation of their work to many other aspects of life and especially in the boys who come to them for instruction. To find such teachers is not easy; one reason is that until recently there has not been so great a demand for them. But until we have plenty of them, we shall fail to realize what college education should be.

Comradeship in Learning

How shall college teachers teach? Here, too, there have been changing methods in the past few years. Fifty years ago the recitation was the standard method of instruction, and the teachers were inquisitors; then the lecture was borrowed from the university as dignified deportment for oracular professors. But now teachers and students are cultivating what may be called “comradeship in learning.” Teachers are teaching as painters taught in the great days of the art, as great masters have always taught, by example and companionship. They have ceased being professors to their students; they have become fellow-students. That is proper—for that is what they ought to be. Nothing is more tragic than to entrust the education of our boys to those whose own education has stopped.

So discussion groups and individual conferences are largely supplanting mass instruction in American colleges today. Students are meeting in teachers’ libraries instead of in classrooms. Lectures are still given, and will be given, when information may best be presented in that way, recitations must still be held in some elementary work; but the chief way in which interests are aroused and methods of study mastered and insight developed is by close contacts of thinker with thinker. No one who has followed the experiments which are now being generally tried in the United States (for example, the preceptorial system at Princeton, tutorial work at Harvard, conference sections at scores of colleges in connection with orientation courses, various advisory systems) will deny that they are of value in quickening the curiosity of students and summoning their intellectual self-respect. All derive from the tutorial system of Oxford, which has proved its worth.

The chief difficulty in putting this method of teaching into practice is, of course, the financial one. Many more teachers are required than under the old schemes of instruction, and they deserve good salaries if they are to do successful teaching of this sort. This, the most essential forward policy in the whole program of the changing college, is often sidetracked in favor of new buildings. But some colleges are honestly adopting President Gilman’s priority list: “Brains, books, bricks.” In consequence, they are giving their students the individual attention which they need and are beginning to demand. In such colleges, we may expect to find those masters and apprentices in philosophy, on whom Americans must rely for their future as a cultured people.