THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1927

VESPER SPEAKERS BOOKED FOR SERVICES

Five Men Scheduled for ‘Y’ During Next Month
Atlanta Sports Editor and Pat Crawford Included in Group With Three Ministers

The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet has been able to produce many excellent speakers for the weekly Sunday evening vesper
services, and many more are to appear before the Davidson students prior to the Christmas holidays.

Next Sunday night, Bishop Edwin A. Penick, of Charlotte, will deliver the address. Bishop Penick has visited Davidson a number
of times before and is recognized as one of the best speakers the Y. M. C. A. has yet been
able to obtain. He is at the head of the North Carolina Diocese of the Episcopal Church and holds a
pastorate in Charlotte.

The following Sunday, November 27th, Dr. J. S. Foster, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, will address the
students. Dr. Foster is the father of John Foster, a well-known member of the Senior class, and is an interesting
speaker.

On December 4th the services will be conducted by Rev. Douglas L. Rights, pastor of the Trinity Moravian Church, of
Winston-Salem. Mr. Rights is a former Harvard student and has gained quite an excellent reputation in athletics, especially baseball.

Negotiations have been opened with Morgan Blake, the Atlanta Journal sports editor, to fill the hour on December 11th. However,
no definite plans have been made as yet. Owing to the rush of editorial work during the football season it
has been impossible for him to make any plans to visit Davidson. Mr. Blake is one of the leading sports
writers in the South today.

The next Sunday evening, December 18th, will be given over to the Glee Club, when they will sponsor a musical
program presented entirely by students. This is the annual event.

Wish Expressed That Present Paddling May Join Ranks of Bull Fights of Old

Now that the fraternity rushing season is over and the lists of pledges have been announced, the freshman, for two
months the object of much activity and superficiality, no longer occupies the pinnacle of popularity forced upon him by Greek-letter
men in their mad endeavor to replenish their chapter rolls.

Alas! Many of the first-year men already are beginning to feel the sting of the paddle and are becoming the
objects of abuse and molestation to the great amusement of their so-called “superiors.” For nearly two months they were treated
like kings; they were feted, fed, entertained, and “drugged” until they thought that to refuse the offer of the fraternity
meant the certain ruination of their college career. Today they see the fraternity in reality, not as an ideal place
in which to live or the home of ideal associates, but rather as a literal hell for freshmen. At least
that is the impression which must be created in the mind of the embryonic yearling.

Until a little more than a decade ago and even until more recent times, paddling was a favorite sport in
nearly every fraternity. To engage in a paddling party was one of the chief sources of delight for many upperclassmen.
Today only fraternity men knew the meaning of such a party. University and Pan-Hellenic legislation has banned the “sport” as
a pastime generally. Fraternities are fast abolishing the evil, popular no longer. A glance through the columns of various fraternity
magazines would lead one to believe that every national fraternity of any prominence is decidedly against paddling. As a result,
the obnoxious sport is disappearing rapidly. We hope that, like bull fights and private wars of old, paddling will soon
be a myth; a subject for tales of college days when things weren't just what they should have been. —Syracuse
Daily Orange.

HENGEVELD COACHES (Continued from page 4)

members of the varsity squad. Wilson handled the Fresh, McAuley the Sophomores, Pat Crawford the Juniors, and Johnny Kugler the
Seniors. Seven men from the Sophomore class were called out. Six of these made D. C.’s last year and all
did exceptional work in class basketball, winning the championship for the Sophomore class.

As yet no definite schedule has been completed. A South Carolina trip, similar to that taken last year, which included
games with Citadel, College of Charleston, Furman, Paris Island Marines, and University of South Carolina, is being planned for the
early part of 1928.

“But you see, my dear, I am a married man,”

Spanish Club Holds Interesting Session

Meeting in an interesting and instructive session, the Spanish Club discussed various phases of Spanish literature and plans for the
remainder of the year last Tuesday night. This was the third meeting of the year, and under the direction of
officers, J. P. McKnight, R. A.Glenn and Francis Ghigo, it was manifest that the efforts of the club to create
an interest in Spanish affairs were meeting with success, according to members present. Thus far, discussions have dealt with “Spain
and Spanish Customs,” conducted by Blythe; “The Romantic Drama,” by W. R. Weaver; “The Religious Element in the Romantic Drama,”
by Professor Fleagle; and the consideration of “Calderon’s Place in Literature,” by D. O. Westbrook. Some discussion has taken place
regarding presenting a “Spanish Night” before the student body. Such an entertainment was held two years ago and, consisting of
Spanish songs, a play, and a mock bullfight, was well received by the students. Professor Crowe is negotiating with certain
authorities at the University of North Carolina with respect to arranging an inter-collegiate Spanish debate.

Only one man has been received into the membership of the organization this fall, this one being Enrique Trenzado, a
native of Cuba. Other bids to membership will be distributed sometime in December, according to the officers. Requirements for membership
are: The student shall take Spanish and have good grades on his work; he shall take an interest in Spanish
affairs besides being recommended by his professor.

“So you put a couple of magnates in jail on heavy fines, did you?” asked the investigating reformer.
“Yes,” replied the native. “We fined them the limit; they wouldn't pay and we put them in cells.”
“That’s a good example.”
“Is it? Within two days they organized the prisoners, guards, and jailors into the International Penalty Company, issued $5,000,000 in
bonds, paid the fines of all the prisoners, left us with a mortgage on the jail and the courthouse—and stuck
the surplus money in their pockets.”

When in Charlotte make our store your headquarters
The Vogue
“THE SHOP FOR MEN”
15 EAST TRADE STREET

Christmas service usually draws the largest attendance of the year. Sometime in the near future the “Y” will have as
the speaker a former Wildcat athlete, Pat Crawford, who is well known to all Davidson men. Crawford is a native
of Gastonia, and during his courses here was an all-round athlete, being captain of two major sports, baseball and basketball.
He is now coaching at Guilford College. “Pat” was voted the most valuable baseball player in the South Atlantic League
and holds a contract with the New York Giants for next season.

Special music will be given at each one of these services and it is the object of the “Y” Cabinet
to draw as many men as possible into taking an active part in the meetings, according to expressions by members
of that body.

Cadet Band Aids in Armistice Program

Last Friday being Armistice Day, the date set aside by the Government as a national holiday commemorating the day when
the World War was ended, a martial spirit filled the air. War celebrations were held and things reminiscent of war
were brought out and viewed once more. In Mooresville at 11:30 a parade was held, in the ranks of which
there were: a cavalry unit from Statesville, a band of Civil War veterans, and a large number of the Mooresville
school children. The Davidson College Band led the parade, which consisted of a march through the principal streets of Mooresville.
This band, consisting of 45 members, after having led the parade, was entertained at the American Legion Hut with dinner.
Immediately after the parade, most of the business houses of Mooresville were represented in a parade of gaily covered and
decorated floats. The total length of the parade was estimated as about one-half of a mile.

The band has been present en masse at nearly all of the Wildcat varsity tilts this year with the exception
of the Florida game. It has not only been able to greatly enhance the strength of the cheering as well
as the volume, but it has been able to lead the Wildcats, their fans, and backers in the various college
songs, notably “O! Davidson!” The band has also led the parades that the freshmen have put on between the halves
of the various games.

THREE MONTHS WITHOUT A SMOKE, I'M FED UP ON FOOTBALL, WHAT I'D GIVE FOR A CIGARETTE RIGHT NOW. OH, BOY!
WHEN THIS SEASON'S OVER I'M GOIN’ TO BUY ME A CARTON OF OLD GOLDS AND SMOKE 'EM ALL AT ONE
SITTIN’

OLD GOLD
The Smoother and Better Cigarette
Not a cough in a carload

Co-Ed—“Then have an apple.”
