4. THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an
unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
Ae Ny BROWN

Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT

Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY

Managing Editor
C. R. T.

Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE

Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS

Associate Editor
M. RUS

Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH

Alumni Editor
R. C. DY

Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY

Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON

Assistant Business Manager
W. M. WELL

Subscription Manager
P. J. GARRISON

Circulation Manager
B. W. DICKSON

Solicitor
S. W. MORRIS

Solicitor
W. McGUIRE

Solicitor
W. H. President

Vice-President
L. ELY

Secretary-Treasurer
R. P. ANDERSON

R. W. McDERMIT
W. H. BEST
W. B. McQUEEN
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D. MILLER
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. PRATT
R. F. JARRATT
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LONG
W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

THE ONE BIG DAY

The one big day of the year—such is Homecoming Day. To the alumni and to the student body it means
more possibly than any other day of the year. A day of renewing old acquaintances, a day of memories and
reminiscences, a day of welcome to one’s old home. Such are the thoughts of the alumnus. The student body wishes
to extend its heartiest welcome to all returning graduates and to have them assured that each Davidson man is glad
to have him back on the campus once more. To the Cadets, to the visitors, to the families of our
students, alumni, and friends we also extend a glad hand. The Davidson student body is entirely at the service of
all visitors today and all will be glad to assist any returning grads or friends in any way possible. But
to the alumni do we particularly want to extend our welcome. Any Davidson man is a friend to any other
Davidson man anywhere they may meet. And especially here today, this will be strikingly presented. The student body today is
the same in general as it was in the days of any alumnus. “The cream of Southern manhood” is still
trying to learn how to work integral calculus, translate sophomore Greek, and pass enough work to stay in school. The
same spirit that has manifested itself here for decades is still present. All of us still believe that if the
Davidson team played a composite All-American pick today that they would give them a good fight. All men on the
campus are friends, and each speaks to the other as they pass on the campus. This is still “home” for
the alumni and he will be welcome just as much as he was when he was a student here. Students
here have always looked forward to Homecoming Day also. If one were to be coarse and materialistic, one would say
that it was because the faculty grants the students a holiday on that occasion. But the students also feel that
they have numerous friends returning on Homecoming Day whether they know a graduate coming here or not. That bond of
fellowship which has always existed between each Davidson man is still in evidence, and all want to do something for
the students of former years who have aided in building Davidson and placing her on the plane where she rests
today. There are numerous things planned for the entertainment of the guests. Luncheons, a football game, stunt night, will all
do their share. It is needless to say that the football game will be the center of interest, and it
is with certainty that we promise the alumni that our representatives on the gridiron will give a good account of
themselves when they go out on the field. It is the first time that Davidson has played on Homecoming Day
and possibly the alumni have never seen their team in action. For the benefit of those few, let it be
said that the Flying Squadron always develops excellent teams and will furnish tough opposition to the Wildcats. But whether Davidson
wins or loses, she will always be fighting. That truism is proven in every athletic encounter in which Davidson engages,
and it is certain that it will not be repudiated on Saturday. The alumni should also remember that which the
student body is fully aware of. That the team functions in proportion to the spirit manifested by its supporters. So
get out there and yell for ’em. Yell with the student body and sing “O, Davidson” as lustily as possible.
It would be quite pleasing if the Davidson team could be as successful this Homecoming Day as it was last
year at this time. But win or lose, the team will have done its best and to be thoroughly satisfied
you must be certain that you have done your best in supporting them. We are sincerely sorry that every alumnus
was unable to return on this occasion. To those who were unable to be here, we wish to let them
know that we are thinking of them also and that we trust that they will be able to be with
us next year. Just listen to anyone tell about it after it’s all over and we are certain that you
will be unable to stay away another year.

MONK AND TEX

To these illustrious “pessimists” of football, all Davidson should again pay tribute today. The men who have produced a state
championship team one year, lost practically the entire squad, and then developed a strong contender for the crown the following
year out of raw material. They are proud of Davidson and the men it produces and they have helped spread
the fame of this institution through the entire country. The few who have seen them out working with new material,
developing real football men, striving day after day to make a better team—these men really appreciate what Monk and Tex
are doing for Davidson. Those who have not seen them should realize the great task that confronted these coaches at
the first of this year and marvel at the results they have accomplished. The student body recognizes the value of
these men to Davidson and are certain that too much praise and tribute cannot be poured upon them.

DOES THE COLLEGE “LIT.” FUNCTION?

The college literary magazine is rapidly disappearing, according to Mr. Hopwood of the Cleveland Plain Dealer. A similar view is
found in the Yale Daily, where an editor writes, “We are in danger of losing the force for literary production
by the undergraduate, if we have not already lost it.” But there are numerous indications that the undergraduate “Lit.” is
not yet in the least dead. In fact, a recent reviewer of the Harvard Advocate finds that even from the
point of view of the suspicious “average reader” the stories are good, the articles worthy of professional magazines, and the
poetry creditable. The general attempt among the student-editors of these publications is to keep the standards of worth and originality
high. And this is well, because it is probably true that there are those outsiders who judge a college by
its “Lit.” as others judge it by its football team. Another reviewer believes college publications interpret the undergraduate mind and
touch college life at more points than any other agency. The college news and the college author magazines have their
functions and their reward, but the function of the “Lit.” is a harder one and the reward possibly a greater.
It aims to furnish a workshop where students may learn “the art of writing.”

WELCOME, ALL!

In behalf of the coaching staff of Davidson, I want to extendyou a cordial welcome to the campus today, and
to publicly express to you my appreciation and the appreciation of my colleagues for the loyal support and the great
interest that you have shown from time to time in the department which comes under my direction. We always try
to develop winning athletic teams for Davidson, for we realize that alumni want elevens, nines, fives, or other athletic outfits
that successfully carry the Davidson banner. Although this is important, we are conscious that there is something of far greater
importance—the developing of men who know how to play the game clean, always showing the most gentlemanly type of sportsmanship.
This afternoon you will have the opportunity to see the football team in action. No matter what the outcome, we
hope that when you leave Davidson this afternoon, you will leave here with the realization that our boys have played
a good game, and have done their best. Alumni have already influenced many good men in coming to Davidson, and
we hope that your interest will always be just as keen—in fact, more so than in the past. Once more
I want to say, “Welcome to Davidson,” and to urge you to return here as often as possible. We are
glad to have you here today, and hope that our part in your entertainment will be successful and interesting to
you.

W. L. YOUNGER, Coach.

Although your alumni officers may travel to the north and to the south; to the east and to the west,
meeting Davidson alumni in local association meetings, in the intimacy of their own homes, or at football games, there is
no more genuine gladness than that which is caused by your return to Davidson today. We are happy to greet
you in every nook and corner of the campus, to shake your hand—some of them for the first time since
alumni work had its inception and others for more than that—and to welcome you back to the old college. For
many of you there is a tinge of sadness—sadness over the absence of associates and over the absence of many
familiar buildings which were dear to you during the days that you spent at Davidson. Although we realize that this
may be prevalent to a degree, we hope that it will be offset by the rejoicing in your heart over
the progress that has been made at Davidson in recent years—a progress which well deserves the term, phenomenal. You are
here as guests of the college, as guests of the students and faculty, and as guests of the alumni department.
The latter is at your particular service, and is anxious to aid in any capacity that will lend to your
entertainment. If you go away without having a good time, we will feel that we have failed in our responsibility,
and for this reason, sincerely hope that you will let us do our part toward your comfort and joy today.

ERNEST MILTON, Alumni Secretary.

Ollapodrida

United States hens lay 760 eggs per second, 24 billion per annum. Most hens lay two eggs every three days.
One hen in Kansas has laid 165 eggs in 165 days. On the 166th day her customary egg was placed
in a jeweled box and sent to President Coolidge. Every farmer seeks such a champion layer, yet if all hens
were as productive the farmer would not benefit. A falling price would soon stabilize the market. The laws of economics
are as invariable as those of the universe.

Six months ago certain miners in Pennsylvania entered upon a strike for higher wages. At once the company ordered them
from their homes, company-owned and upon company property. Miners retaliated by paying the rent and refusing to move or be
moved. The company went before Judge Schoonmaker of the Superior Court and sought an injunction upon the grounds that the
miners were interfering with interstate commerce. Non-union miners could not occupy the houses, hence the company could not carry on
its interstate trade. Foolishly Judge Schoonmaker granted the injunction. Whether the miners can be driven from their homes remains to
be seen. In spite of the injunction they are remaining, offering resistance to ejection. According to our present laws the
employer holds his workers' position absolutely in his hands. But to drive a man from his home because he refuses
to work is the height of injustice and is tainted with an attitude of “sour grapes.”

In a recent issue of Time, a condensed newspaper periodical, Duke University is referred to as “tobacco-stained Trinity.” It is
but an echo of the adverse editorial comment that swept the country when that university, according to popular belief, “sold
its name for a sum of money.” Other college authorities have found it easy to criticize Trinity’s action but few
have been confronted with so tempting an offer. One is inclined to believe that even Davidson, with its more ancient
background and traditions, would have been sorely tempted. If the public wishes to find fault with Duke, why not call
them to task instead for investing in the marble pillars of their buildings?

Stock market bears at last penetrated the defense of their bullish opponents last week and prices went tumbling in a
decided degree for the first time in a year or more. Practically every leading industrial issue experienced a rapid decline
while General Motors, whose stock has been divided recently, dropped off ten points and is still on the slide. The
cause: Business is not as good as it was last spring although the last four months of the year usually
bring the peak in sales and production. Motor car sales have fallen off decidedly and investors are trying to unload
at peak prices. Forthcoming quarterly dividends will check the fall in a week.

The new Ford finally made its appearance in Detroit last week when the inventor drove the most recent production from
his Dearborn plant to his museum. There it was placed beside the first and fifteenth million Fords. 375,000 cash orders
have already been received for the new car which will guarantee several months full-time production. Two-thirds of the plant will
be used for the new car and one-third for the manufacture of parts for the old model “T.” Throughout the
country the car-buying populace awaits its arrival with anticipation and also the arrival of keen competition with General Motors. Both
concerns adhere that there will be no price-cutting war. Be that as it may, the financial interests of General Motors
will suffer, their stock will decline and dividends will be smaller. General Motors can afford the loss, however. Ford’s success
is hardly greater than this great concern’s. If an investor had placed $10,000 in this company’s stock when it was
organized in 1908, and had taken every opportunity to buy divided stock, he would have made a total investment of
$99,000, his stock would now be worth a little over $1,000,000 and he would have received cash dividends amounting to
$100,000. And then Ford’s new car may not be successful.

W.L. L.

Several classrooms at Emory University are now provided with rocking chairs. We wonder when they will start furnishing beds and
lounges in order that a student may thoroughly enjoy himself?

An “Executive Board” of students has been recently formed at Southwestern University. The function of this board is to study
student body problems and suggest solutions.

President Max Mason advocates a college where there are no examinations. Is he running for president and putting out propaganda
to obtain the collegiate vote?

Dr. W. M. Lewis was formally inaugurated as the tenth president of Lafayette College last Thursday, October 20.

This younger generation is getting too much liberty. Too bad we can’t be as strict as we were in the
good old days. To top it all, the College Council of Agnes Scott has decided that specials may be delivered
twice a day on Sunday instead of merely once as heretofore.

stages through which the writer who continues to write will pass safely. But we are concerned that, as the Advocate
reviewer puts it, the spirit of the literary magazines is one of “gentlemanly youngsters interested in letters, learning to write
more than passably well.” In such a spirit we believe it is possible for the college “Lit.” to fulfill its
function.

—P. A. D.
