THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1927

PLAYING THE GAME: With Withers

First Baseball Game
Northern Tennis Trip
Freshman Prospects
V. P. I. Track Meet

With two continuous weeks of spring-like weather in which to get into shape, the Davidson baseball team should be approaching good form tomorrow when it enters the first game of the season. Naturally, the collegians are slated to win over the preps, but in the past, Oak Ridge has battled Davidson hard, some years to a tie and one year won the two-game series.

For the past week, the varsity infield has seen Captain Woodham on first, Kugler at second, Littlejohn at short, and Duling bouncing the hot corner. Cathey and Meadows were being used most frequently in the box, while the catcher position was absolutely undecided. Ratchford, Johnson, and Davis were cavorting about the outer gardens. Murray and McConnell were being used in the outfield, while Glenn and McAuley often saw service on the varsity infield.

The announcement by Captain McCutcheon of the tennis team, of the Northern trip to be taken by the racqueteers this spring has been greeted with interest and many praiseworthy remarks. Despite the fact of Carr's injury that may keep him from the courts this spring, the hopes of the members of the squad are high. The annual spring tournament is now in the process of being run off to determine the members of the team who will go North to represent Davidson. With Carr out of the game, it is probable that McCutcheon, Roddey, and McAlpine will land berths on the team, and the fourth position is left undecided. Just who the number four player will be is yet a matter of doubt. Alexander, Christian, Flowe, Bradley, and several others are being groomed for the place, but just who will win remains to be seen.

While the varsity baseballers are bemoaning the fact that there are so few first-class pitchers eligible for the team, Coach Mattox's Freshmen seem to be well supplied with hurlers. Dobbins, Hampton, Kugler, and Henderson all have good high school records behind them and are showing up well in practice. With the addition of Williams at backstop, however, the good bets stop. Hardly any seasoned material is in evidence for the infield or outfield. It may be that Mattox can find seven good men to fill these positions, but at present, the outlook is extremely dark.

With the opening of track season only a matter of a few days away, we expect to hear any moment of some disaster befallen Captain Goodykoontz. For the last four or five years, the track captain here has become incapacitated before the season was out. Stribeck, Gracey, Anderson, all suffered in some way or other from a malady that could not be cured while track season lasted. It is true that “Goody” hurt his ankle last fall in football, but so far no distressing rumors have reached us. Besides the captain, Kell and Currie and perhaps Pinkney will participate in the dashes. Sims, letter man, and Brown are the best bets in the hurdles, and Brown will possibly get a shot at the javelin. The Calhoun brothers can easily take care of the high jumping pit, and Jennings, supported by Baily or Fry, will vault. It is possible that Fry may be run in the low hurdles. Bohannon, Lincoln, and Leftwich are the most likely weight men. In the middle distances, O'Neal, and in the longer races, Treveton and Martin, will probably get the call. Melton is showing excellent form in several events and no doubt will get into the meet in some capacity, more than likely the broad jump.

Don Wharton went to Brown’s restaurant and ordered oysters. “Let me have them raw,” he said, “and not too large nor too small. I want them salty and soft, and they must be cold. Make it snappy, I’m in a hurry.” “Would you like them with or without pearls?” dryly inquired the waiter.

His Reward
“But,” protested the new arrival as St. Peter handed him a golden saxophone, “I can’t play this. I never practiced while I was on earth.” “Of course you didn’t,” chuckled the old Saint, “that’s why you are here.”

“Athletic Night” Proves Overwhelming Success
Letters Are Awarded to Football, Basketball, and Wrestling Men

“Athletic Night” was observed in great fashion Thursday night, March 17th, honoring the letter men of three sports, and being the first public recognition of the playing of the state football champions last fall. The exercises in Shearer Hall followed a banquet which was given the title-holders by the faculty of this institution.

Speakers on the program were Maj. A. L. James, '06, of Charlotte, and Jos. B. Johnston, '01, superintendent of Barium Springs Orphanage. Major James is an alumnus of Davidson and a graduate of West Point. During the World War, he was decorated by General Pershing, the King of Belgium, and the President of France. He is a prominent army man, and his address was colored with interesting incidents of the World War. His speech was very humorous yet carried a sincere and challenging message to the Wildcats and to the rest of his audience. He emphasized that courage, developed on the football field or in any athletic contest during the school years, is beneficial to a large extent only if carried on and used later in the real battle of life.

Mr. Johnston eulogized the performance of the Davidson football team and pointed out to those who are left behind that the heritage, which will be hard to live up to, has been left by the men who are graduating.

Announcement was made that E. F. Bohannon, of Davidson, had been chosen by the student body as the best all-round athlete here, and he was declared winner of a handsome loving cup, given by Norris Candies, Inc., of Atlanta, Ga. Dr. J. M. Douglas made the presentation. Bohannon is a two-letter man and president of the Athletic Association.

Mr. F. I. Jackson presented to Captain Wells a silver football offered by a Greensboro concern to the state champions. In his talk, he asserted that it was richly deserved. Captain Wells accepted it on behalf of the team and presented the trophy to Dr. W. J. Martin, president, who spoke for a few minutes.

Captain Wells also presented to Dr. Martin the real football used in the Carolina game, one of the deciding battles in the struggle for the championship. On this ball is painted the score of the Carolina-Davidson game and the names of all the Davidson players who participated in the game.

It was announced that Lunsford Richardson, Jr., of Greensboro, has been chosen by the team as the mascot of the championship eleven of 1926. Though he was not present at the exercises, he will be presented with a gold football on which is inscribed “A Real Wildcat.”

Prof. A. Currie presented the letter certificates to the men in football, basketball, and wrestling. Those receiving them were:

Football—Capt. L. W. Wells, J. F. Pinkney, E. F. Bohannon, H. M. Arrowood, C. B. Ritchie, R. L. Lincoln, H. L. Laws, E. L. Mitchell, R. E. Boggs, J. W. Grey, J. H. McConnell, R. E. Wilson, N. E. Sappenfield, W. R. Grey, C. W. Harrison, W. O. Nisbet, W. H. Leggette, G. R. Simms, W. A. Christian, W. O. Green, J. M. Farrell, and R. H. McIlwaine, manager.

Basketball—Capt. T. F. Anderson, B. A. Wilson, B. W. McAuley,R. G. Calhoun, C. W. Harrison, J. W. Simpson, F. E. Hudgins, and M. L. Carroll, manager. | Wrestling—Capt. J. C. Frierson, P. J. Garrison, H. L. Estridge, T. E. Hill, J. W. Crinkley, C. G. Davis, and W. H. Flythe. | Cheer leader, W. R. Story.

Wildcats’ Track Season Meet at Blacksburg to Pry Off Lid For Both Teams

Davidson opens its auspicious track schedule for this season next Saturday afternoon at Blacksburg, Va., when the Virginia Polytechnic Institute will be met on the home grounds of the latter institution. This will be the initial meet for both Davidson and V. P. I., and because it is the first contest of the season, neither team will be in par condition. The Wildcats will leave here Friday morning in cars for the seat of the Virginia institution. Eighteen men will make the trip, in addition to Coach Tex Tilson and Manager Jim King. The track coach was unable to name those men who would go to Blacksburg Monday night, since their work on the field the remainder of this week will largely determine who the contestants will be.

It is reported that V. P. I. have exceptionally good men in the 220-yard dash, 440-yard race, mile-run, and discus throw. Since Davidson has some strong men in the dashes, it is expected that these races will be among the best of the affair. Considerable worry has been manifested over the fact that Goodykoontz is not yet in shape, due to the fact that early in the football season of last fall he sprained his ankle. This has been bothering him a great deal lately, and it is feared that his work on the cinder path this spring will be greatly hampered. His loss would be keenly felt, after his brilliant display last year. Davidson's greatest strength lies in her sprint men this season, and Coach Tilson is depending upon these men to offset the showing that will be made by those in the weight and field events. It is in the latter two departments that Davidson has been weak for many years, the showing of these contestants being only fair as compared with other institutions.

This meet will be the first between Davidson and V. P. I. since 1925, no contest being carded last season. It is remembered by many of the present student body that the Virginia Gobblers walked away from the Wildcats that year, and if their strength is anything like it was then, the Davidson outfit will have a difficult time to make an appreciable showing. Davidson's strength has materially increased, however, and the outcome will determine the possibilities of the entire season for the Wildcats.

In order to add variety to the program, the Davidson College orchestra played several selections, and the assemblage sang “College Ties” at the opening and “O! Davidson!” to conclude the exercises.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING - Charlotte, N. C.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Introducing to the readers of MR. GEORGE BRYAN (Davidson 1875-76) | Member of the Board of Trustees and Attorney

Seven Important Meets Furman and Five Northern Schools to be Played on Court

In keeping with the program of expansion followed by athletic teams of Davidson for the past several years is the announcement of the tennis schedule by Manager R. W. Carr. The card includes six contests and the state meet, and all but one of the former are included in a Northern trip on which they will cross racquets with some of the largest institutions in this country. The prospects of an excellent team are good this year. McCutchen and Carr, winners of the state double title last season, will be on the squad, as well as Roddey, winner of many freshman contests last season. The schedule follows:

April 5—Furman at Davidson.
April 21-23—State Meet at Chapel Hill.
April 29—University of Pennsylvania, at Philadelphia, Pa.
April 30—Cornell, at Ithaca, N. Y.
May 2—Colgate, at Hamilton, N. Y.
May 4—Bethlehem Moravian College, at Bethlehem, Pa.
May 5—George Washington, at Washington, D. C. (pending).

JUNIOR WEEK COMMITTEE (Continued from page 1)

At the Easter service at the church and at the “Y” vespers that afternoon there will be a special musical program directed by members of the Junior class and planned especially for the numerous house parties that will be in full blast on the hill at that time. On Monday morning the scene of activities will be shifted to Charlotte. That afternoon Davidson will play Carolina in the annual Easter baseball game, in Salisbury. The next move will be the entertainment in Charlotte, to which everyone will journey Monday night. A tennis match has been scheduled for Tuesday afternoon though the opponent has not been definitely decided upon. The manager of the racketeers is attempting to schedule a college contest, but if this fails, some country club will in all probability be played. On Tuesday night, the class is sponsoring a special picture show at the gym. Proceeds from this show will go towards defraying expenses incurred by the class during Junior Week.

The complete schedule follows:
Thursday, April 14
8:30—Junior Oratorical Contest.
Friday, April 15—
2:30—(Pending).
8:00—Glee Club Concert.
11:00—Mooresville.
Saturday, April 16—
2:30—D. C. Fresh vs. Wingate.
8:00—Junior Night.
Sunday, April 17—
11:15—Easter services.
6:15—Musical Program at “Y”
Monday, April 18
11:30—Charlotte.
2:30—Davidson vs. Carolina (at Salisbury).
10:00—Charlotte.
Tuesday, April 19—
2:30—Tennis match.
7:30—Picture show at gym.

Two stuttering blacksmiths had heated a piece of iron. One placed it upon the anvil with a pair of tongs. “H-h-h-h-hit it,” he stammered to his helper. “Wh-wh-wh-where?” asked the other. “Aw, h-h-h-h-ell. We'll have to h-e-heat it over again now.”

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

The Davidsonian

Every few hours swallow slowly small pieces of Vicks the size of a pea. Melt a little in a spoon and inhale the vapors.

VICKS VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Baseball Season Opens Friday With Cadet Game

Strong Oak Ridge Team to Play Games Here Friday and Saturday

With the coming of the Oak Ridge Preparatory School here Friday, Davidson officially opens the 1927 baseball season. For a number of years it has been the custom for Davidson and Oak Ridge to inaugurate their respective seasons with a series of two games with each other. Oak Ridge has one of the strongest prep school nines in the entire South, and it is the equal, if not the better, of several Southern colleges. In the history of the two schools’ baseball affiliations, it is a matter of rare occurrence for one of the schools to win both games.

The final line-up has not been selected as yet, but it appears that the team will be out on the diamond as follows: Catcher, “Wick” Black; pitchers, Wells, Cathey, and Meadows, with Wells possibly being shifted to the outfield; second base, John Kugler; first base, Kelly Woodham, captain of the team; third base, Johnny Dulin; shortstop, Fritz Littlejohn; left field, Ratchford; center field, Hal Johnson; right field, Davis, McConnell, or Wells. On paper the team looks strong with the battery the weakest. Although the team is not perfect in all its parts, the games Friday and Saturday will probably do much toward determining the real strength of the team and their ability to work together as a unit.

“He done me wrong,” wailed the algebra problem as the freshman handed in his review paper.

Glorifying the American student with smart styled clothes for university men ---“BRAEBURN.” $35 to $50

MELLON’S Charlotte, N. C.