Ti:DAVIMD SONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 10, 1927 4 No.9

‘Quips and Cranks’ of 1927 Adjudged Best Annual Publication of Colleges Having Less Than Thousand Students

West Point “Howitzer” and Missouri “Savitar” Also Win

RECEIVE LOVING CUP

Don Wharton Edits Davidson Annual—Queen City Printing Company of Charlotte Produce Book

Interesting to the student body and alumni is the news recently received that the Davidson College Annual, “Quips and Cranks,”
has been awarded the distinction of being the best college yearbook published by any institution in the United States with
an enrollment of less than one thousand students. The staff was awarded a large silver loving cup as a symbol
of their attainment. Hundreds of colleges and universities throughout the nation competed in this contest conducted by the Tri-State Annual
Service of Canton, Ohio. The institutions were divided into three classes according to enrollment. The winners in each class were,
1-A, the University of Missouri “Savitar;” class 1-B, the West Point “Howitzer;” and class 1-C, the Davidson “Quips and Cranks.”

L. D. Wharton, Jr., now a member of the news staff of the Greensboro Daily News, was editor-in-chief, and Clanton
W. Williams, now attending the University of Alabama, was business manager of the prize-winning yearbook. Among the prominent features of
the annual which were instrumental in its achievement is its distinctive front, composed of a silhouette of the columns of
Old Chambers, with a background of a sky of sunset red and trees of green, with the college seal in
a prominent position. The outstanding feature of the book is that it is skillfully built around the theme of Marshal
Ney’s connection with the college. Each of the book inserts is a drawing (Continued on page 5)

Pastor of Myers Park Church Speaks Sunday

Pleads for Closer Personal Contact With Jesus Christ

Taking as his topic the need of having a “real and abiding Christ” with us always, Dr. E. G. Gammon,
pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, gave at the “Y” vespers Sunday night one of the best
and most helpful talks heard this year, according to members of the student body. Dr. Gammon took as his text
the 16th and 17th verses of the fourth chapter of II Timothy: “At my first defence no one took my
part, but all forsook me; may it not be laid to their account. But the Lord stood by me, and
strengthened me.” These words of Paul, as pointed out by Dr. Gammon, were written shortly before his death, when it
seemed that all his friends had forsaken him, but when Christ was to him still a very real Saviour and
close Friend. Dr. Gammon then went on to show the value of this “abiding Christ” to Paul and therefore to
every Christian: Christ was first a consolation to him, for he wrote that he counted all things to be lost
for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord. Second, Christ gave him confidence, for he said, “I
can do all things in Him that strengtheneth me.” Every life needs the consolation and the confidence that Christ alone
can give, and every believer in Him should strive to live with the living Saviour by his side at all
(Continued on page 5)

Carolina Limited To Take Students To Saturday Game

Although no definite arrangements have been made, it is practically certain that a special train will be run to Chapel
Hill Saturday for the purpose of carrying Davidson students to the annual Davidson-Carolina football game. According to “Spike” McGee, varsity
cheer leader, the train will probably leave between 7:00 and 7:30 Saturday morning. To get the railroad authorities to run
the train it will be necessary to have 125 students signed up to go on the special. The fare for
the round trip will be approximately $5.25. The running of a special to one of the games away from the
Hill is not a new idea; it is merely the continuance of a custom that has been in vogue for
several years. Last year a special was run to Raleigh for the N. C. State game, and the year before
last a special train to Chapel Hill was run for the Davidson-Carolina game. In order that the students may go
on the special, for the past few years it has been the custom of the college authorities to grant a
holiday on one of the days when the team plays away from Davidson. The holiday is given only to those
that attend the game, as those that do not will have to meet classes on Saturday as usual. Last year
when the special went to Raleigh there were about 150 students on board, including the R. O. T. C. Band,
and as the (Continued on page 7)

Marksmen Arrange Meets for Season

With from 10 to 15 matches arranged with colleges and military institutions throughout this section, along with several civilian teams,
the rifle team, under the direction of Captain Julian Lake, has entered on its schedule. Among the teams to be
contested are: The University of Florida; Virginia Military Institute (there), and the Gastonia civilian team (there). The Statesville match, the
re-entry competition, is now in progress, the firing occurring on four consecutive Tuesday nights throughout the month of November. The
winner of this match will receive a handsome silver loving cup, given by Capt. Reid Morrison, of Mooresville, a Davidson
graduate of 1902. Much interest is manifest among the students in competing for places on the team, there being more
than 60 candidates and some 15 others have applied for an opportunity to fill any vacancies that may occur. J.
M. Gudger is captain of the team, and C. W. Taylor, who won a place among the leading riflemen at
Camp McClellan during the past summer, is manager. Direction of rifle firing activity is under the direction of Lake, who
is captain of Company B, and was captain of the rifle team at Camp McClellan during the last camp. According
to those in charge, it was a difficult problem to choose the ten best men among so large a group,
the only practical manner being to take the ten highest scorers in the four positions after preliminary work had been
done. Those who will compose the team, listed in the order of their scores, are as follows: W. M. Long,
S. W. Vance, C. W. Taylor, J. M. Gudger, R. D. Russell, W. G. McGavock, E. D. Lennon, W. G.
Epes, M. L. Milmour, J. E. Bradley, and C. P. Greyer, alternate.

BID CORRECTION

In obtaining the names of those men who received bids for last week’s Davidsonian, a clerical error was made in
which the names of those bid by the Pi Kappa fraternity were omitted and two names were lost from the
Kappa Alpha list. The staff regrets this mistake and prints the additional pledges:

Pi Kappa Alpha: George Everington, Laurinburg; G. W. George, Decatur, Ga.; R. C. Wilson, Marion, N.C.

Kappa Alpha: Dean Rusk, Atlanta, Ga.; H. S. Moffett, Jr., Davidson.

President of Seminary to Conduct Fall Series of Services Next Week

Dr. Vander Meulen of Louisville Chosen as Leader

BEGIN SUNDAY

Purpose of Meetings is to Aid Men in Selecting Life Work—Last Through Wednesday

Every year the Y. M. C. A. secures several speakers and lecturers of note to hold series of lectures and
addresses treating more or less upon each man’s deciding upon his life work. Dr. John M. Vander Meulen, the president
of the Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary, will be the first of these speakers. Dr. Vander Meulen will be in Davidson
next Sunday and will remain through Wednesday. He will first address the student body on Sunday night, and thereafter will
speak twice daily, at the morning chapel and at the vespers, about 45 minutes after supper, each evening. The services
to be conducted by Dr. Vander Meulen will constitute the Y. M. C. A.’s special series of meetings for the
fall term. Before becoming the president of Louisville Theological Seminary, Dr. Vander Meulen held six pastorates in churches in several
of the eastern states. He was also a professor at Hope College, in Michigan, from which college he graduated with
an A.B., and later received an M.A. After that,The degree of Doctor of Divinity was bestowed upon him. At the
termination of his professorship of Psychology and Pedagogy at Hope College, he was ordained as a minister. In 1905, Dr.
Vander Meulen was called to the presidency of the Louisville Seminary to take the place of Dr. Hemphill. It will
be remembered that Dr. Vander Meulen came to Davidson last year but was here for the weekend only. Dr. Ben
Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary, was also at Davidson, acting in the capacity of the “Y” revival leader. Other
speakers for the fall season of services have been Rev. C. F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of
Greensboro, N. C.; Dr. “Tolly” Thompson, a graduate of Davidson and professor in Union Seminary. Dr. Vander Meulen was stricken
seriously ill this past summer while on an extended tour of Europe and the Holy Land, so that it was
feared for a time that he would be unable to fill his engagement at Davidson. He has since recovered to
a large extent his health and strength so that he will be able to be here. Arrangements are now being
made for any students so desiring to have private conferences with him while he is at Davidson. This system of
holding conferences of this private nature has been tried with great success in the past, and it is sincerely believed
that those desiring to gain the most out of these services will take advantage of the opportunity thus afforded. A
request left at the office in Phi Hall will enable anyone to gain these interviews.

Glee Club Enters Contest of State Colleges; Durham

On December 9th, the Glee Club will go to Durham, where it will compete with other college glee clubs of
the state in a contest sponsored by the State Inter-Collegiate Glee Club Association. The Durham Chamber of Commerce has extended
invitations to all the glee clubs of the state to be in Durham for this meet. The state organization, formed
several years ago but not until this year functioning actively, has as its purpose the encouragement of more artistic choral
work, a finer rendition of the folk classics, spirituals, and other music. For this purpose, the state contest is held,
not primarily to determine the best glee club in the state, but as an incentive for the rendition of better
music. There are certain requirements which each glee club participating must fulfill. Each club must be composed of 30 men,
directed by a student. The club must render three numbers: first, a classical song selection chosen by the state association,
the title of which is “The Broken Melody” by Sibelius. The second number to be rendered is the college song
of that particular glee club. The third number is to be chosen by the individual club. The Davidson Club will
sing “Mother’s Boy.” The glee club adjudged as the winner of the state contest will go to Greenville, S. C.,
where it will compete for the Southern championship. The club emerging victorious (Continued on page 8).

Ohio State Alumni Sing ‘Anvil Chorus’

Columbus, Ohio (By New Student Service)—Ohio State University lost a football game to Michigan by a 21 to 0 score.
Almost before the players had reached the locker rooms, the anvil chorus of Ohio State alumni was well underway, and
never was a chorus louder or more indicative of alumni importance in controlling alma mater’s affairs. A. W. Raymond, president
of the Varsity “O” Alumni Association, resigned his office at a meeting of the former athletes, who had just given
the football coach, Dr. John W. Wilce, an ovation. Dr. Wilce insists that the team was as good as ever.
Irreconcilables among the alumni charge that the players knew nothing of fundamentals and have suggested that “two-thirds of the players
who participated in the Michigan game turn in their suits and that Ohio State get a new head coach or
that a decided shake-up of the team be instituted.”

The New York World, discussing the case in an editorial entitled “The Alumni Nuisance,” points to the vicious circle whereby
“the university, to get funds, must have bigger and better football teams; and the alumni, in return for the funds,
demand still bigger and better football teams.” It adds: “If the alumni could get this simple proposition through their heads
and cease to throw the whole university into a turmoil every time a game is dropped, things might ease off
a bit. And if they could get through their heads that football is a very small part of the real
work of their schools, university life might take on a pleasanter tone.”

More than a million pounds of tea is required to supply the people of Great Britain with each day’s beverage.

McDowall and Warren Lead Wolfpack in Smashing Attack on Davidson for First Victory in Past Four Years

'Cats Unable to Break up Brilliant Passing Game

SCORE IS 25-6

Charlie Harrison and Captain Grey Make Substantial Gains Before Large Greensboro Crowd

The football team of N. C. State College was wheeled from its hangar at the Greensboro Memorial Stadium Saturday afternoon,
took to the air in a superb passing game, and left the Davidson Wildcats meekly plodding around gazing at their
antics. The score was 25-6 in what was probably one of the most spectacular exhibitions of football executed in the
state this season. The widely heralded Jack McDowall, initiating end of a great system of passes, was tossing them in
all his glory and preciseness to the waiting arms of Goodwin, elongated Wolfpack end, who towered well above the would-be
interferers of the Wildcat organization. It was largely this combination that put the Davidson team to such a rout as
they suffered. The same Jack was on his toes all the time as he pulled two spectacular runs of 46
and 65 yards before the Davidson backs could break through perfect interference. Warren, running mate of McDowall in the State
backfield, was little less in evidence than the Jack himself. Warren went through the line of the Presbyterians with much
consistency, supplementing the great passing attack.

But State was not all that was on the field, as the Davidson team also lent to the spectacular items
of the game. Harrison, playing in his own back lot, produced for the home folks as he got away for
two beautiful runs of 35 and 27 yards off the flank of the Wolfpack, and later intercepted a pass from
McDowall to return it 25 yards before he could be downed. Captain Dick Grey also came through at times with
nice gains, a very opportune (Continued on page 8).

Record of Past Games Favors Carolina Team

Course Run in Little Less Than Three Minutes

Davidson and Carolina are North Carolina’s most ancient football foes, according to past records, which show that the Wildcats and
the Tar Heels have had an annual clash for almost 30 years.

The first game was in 1897, when Davidson was playing in her first intercollegiate football contest. Notwithstanding the fact that
Carolina added up a long string of victories, a keen rivalry has always existed between the two teams. From the
first game in 1897, Carolina maintained a clean slate over the Wildcats until 1910, when Davidson won for the first
time by a single touchdown. That was the Wildcats’ only victory over Carolina for eight years, when they won with
a score of 14 to 7. Since then, they have scored only two victories, one in 1920 and the other
the spectacular triumph of last season, when they surprised the Tar Heels with their sudden aerial attack and scored 10
points before the Carolinians recovered from their surprise. Records show that Carolina has won 16 times to Davidson’s 4, and
that four of the games have ended in scoreless ties. The Tar Heels have piled up a total of 235
points to Davidson’s 61. The complete record of scores follows:

1897—Carolina 10 Davidson 0
1898—Carolina 11 Davidson 0
1899—Carolina 10 Davidson 0
(Continued on page 8)
