a THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 10, 1927

Exchanges

“Please flunk me,” fifty students asked their instructors. “We humbly petition you professors that we be flunked in all our
courses that we are now taking.” These words were drawn up by a member of the Weekly staff to prove
that Pitt students think less and write more. Of the fifty-two asked, fifty signed the trick petition without questioning or
reading it.

The Mercer Cluster is getting out class editions now. First came the freshman edition in flaming red, followed by the
sophomores in royal purple, and now the juniors. They are all most unique in makeup and subject matter. We wait
for the senior number with much anticipation.

The other day American Marines regulating certain matters in Nicaragua were fired upon from ambush. Nobody was hurt fortunately, but
American forces were told to capture, punish, and, if necessary, shoot those guilty of the attack.

Overalls have been adopted as the official costume of the sophomores at the University of Washington.

A freshman at Mercer University sued his roommate for “divorce” on the grounds of extreme and inhuman cruelty. Among the
accusations were: refusal on the part of the upperclassman to give him a nickel a week for shows, the charge
that his roommate persisted in using the plaintiff's chewing gum, and that on cold nights the defendant went to bed
first but refused the poor freshman to share the benefits of the warm bed.

The University of North Carolina Glee Club announces the completion of plans for a trip through Europe during the coming
summer. The club will leave Chapel Hill immediately upon the close of the first summer session and will give concerts
on the road to New York, and sail on August 1st. A month will be divided between Paris and London,
and trips into the surrounding country.

At George Washington University a class recently waited fifteen minutes for the professor to show up. When he failed to
do so, it unanimously excused itself. The next day the professor claimed that he had been in the class because
he had left his hat on the desk. On the following day when he came to the class he found
hats scattered in profusion over the room, but not a student.

Seven hundred roller skates have been bought by the students at the University of Oregon in a single week. The
students skate to classes, to town, and to dances. Note: And maybe from buggy rides.

“Women are storming co-educational institutions, to the dismay of college authorities. Northwestern University has passed a law providing that there
must be 450 men for 350 women. The action was taken in order to increase the professional atmosphere of Northwestern,
and to protect the men.

Debating societies of Tulane and Newcomb recently discussed “Should College Students be Privileged to Fire their Professors.” The decision rendered
by the judges was in favor of the negative.

It has been estimated that the University of California spends more on wages and salaries than any other university in
the United States.

DAVIDSON BASEBALL SCHEDULE (Continued from page 1)

April 18—University of North Carolina at Salisbury.
April 21—Duke University at Durham.
April 25—Wofford College at Davidson.
April 27—Elon College at Elon.
April 29—University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
May 2—V. P. I. at Davidson.
May 4—N. C. State at Salisbury.
May 5—N. C. State at Davidson.
May 7—Furman University at Davidson.
May 10—The Citadel at Davidson (pending).

Miss Mary Hamilton spent the weekend with her parents.

Converse Dramatic Club to Give Play Here Soon

Junior Class Sponsors Performance Here on March 28th

The Converse Dramatic Club, under the auspices of the Junior Class, will give a performance at Davidson on the night
of March 29th. The Junior Week Committee, acting on behalf of the Junior Class, engaged the performers some time ago.
The profits will be used to defray some of the expenses which the class will have to meet during Junior
Week. Tickets will be put on sale, as usual, about two days before the play. All tickets will be 50
cents. Half of the house will be reserved and the other half will be rush seats. The Juniors hope to
have a large crowd out for the Converse dramatists.

In the past, the work of the Converse Dramatic Club has been appreciated by all. On their coming trip, they
will give one of Barrie’s five-act plays. Eight or nine girls will make the trip from Spartanburg to assist in
the performance. It is fully expected that their coming dramatic exhibitions will be as good or better than those of
the past.

Dr. Gammon to be Here for Services

The Y. M. C. A. has engaged the services of Dr. E. G. Gammon, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
of Selma, Ala., to hold the life-work meeting this spring. Dr. Gammon is a Hampden-Sidney man and was an athlete
while there. He played varsity football, being quarterback, and played shortstop on the baseball team. He is also an O.
D. K. man and is a graduate of Union Theological Seminary. After finishing his work at the Seminary he was
college pastor at Hampden-Sidney. He has done noted work with men and boys and has been used extensively on young
people's conferences and meetings. Dr. Gammon is therefore peculiarly adapted for this work.

The life-work meetings held every year at this time come as a consummation to the series of talks held by
the Vocational Guidance Institute, which stressed the fact that whatever a man may choose as his life-work he should not
leave God out entirely. The services will start at the church Sunday morning, April 13th, and will continue through Wednesday.
Meetings will be held at chapel and after supper. Dr. Gammon will be assisted by the Columbia Quartet. The quartet
is a fine one and will be a great asset to the meeting. The decision meeting held this fall by
Dr. Ben Lacy was a great success and was enjoyed by everyone. With Dr. Gammon and Dr. Lacy setting the
pace the “Y” will have a hard time next year keeping up to the standard set this year.

Dr. Watts Writes Paper for Language Magazine

Professor Tells of Unpublished Works of Racine

The following passage contains the substance of an article published in the March edition of “Modern Language Notes,” written by
Dr. George B. Watts, associate professor of French at Davidson.

Louis Racine’s famous poem, “La Religion,” first published in Paris in 1742, had a very considerable popularity during its day,
appearing in several editions of the eighteenth century and being translated into four languages.

NO SUCH NEGATIVE FREEDOM (Continued from page 4)

thing, for that is what they have to do with the life of today themselves; and I think we shall
have to make this experiment of trying the unification by just doing away with the separation. But whatever we find,
I am sure we have got to bring our course of studies together in some course of this kind.

Responsibility for Students

Then secondly, (this has become a commonplace view), what we must certainly do is to get the young American to
take the responsibility upon himself of getting to his own studies. Somehow or other we have fallen into a situation
where the college must find a purpose, common to all its members, accepted by all its members, before every member
can be set free to further that purpose in his own way. If then we presuppose that an American college
becomes a community of intelligence, it means that all the members of the community accept the same gospel of intellect
as their guide in life.

As to the course of study in an American college, I take it that I have spoken so much on
this and so often that I need to say but little. I am quite sure that as to the course
of study, we have got to discard the elective system, if we are going to have a community of learning,
and have all the members of the community engaged in the same intellectual enterprise. Our system as it is separates
knowledge into parts and sends each member of the community to a collection of some of the scattered parts. We
must bring them back together again, make some unification of preparation which shall bind us together as students. Various devices...have
been tried in recent years to establish unity among courses. We have tried orientation courses for Freshmen. We have been
calling this orientation course an attempt to tell a Freshman what he is going to study before he studies it,
as he goes into the field of social science, so that he will understand it when he takes it, and
I think they have done quite a little in the way of unification. More might be done by a senior
course which would attempt to unify different courses after they had been taken. This was done formerly by the old
senior course in philosophy. I think that there is one method that ought to be tried and that is the
giving up of the division of knowledge altogether. Our elective system is based on the division of the field of
knowledge into subjects, and the student takes five at a time. I hope that we are going to discontinue the
attempt of studying a number of subjects, and study a civilization in all its aspects at the same time. I
should like to get a group of Freshmen and acquaint them with Greek civilization as a whole; not separate subjects,
but get together a group of students who want to know the way of understanding a life and then take
a great episode in human life and see what it looks like as a whole, and see if they can
understand how a great people lived; not getting this or that special phase, but considering life as a single teacher
is responsible for what happens to the mind of the student. Somehow or other we have got to get that
relationship reversed. A student goes to college to learn and somehow he has got to start out learning for himself,
and take the initiative himself, and whatever the teacher does must be by way of guidance and a mere supplement
to that which the student does himself. I think that the teacher can help the student, but cannot do it
for him, and that is what we are trying to do with our lecture system and our scheme of instruction.
We are trying to hand on to the student the work done by the teacher.

The proper relationship is that of master and apprentice, and the first duty of a teacher is to be a
student, and then the teacher relationship comes when the young mind comes into contact with an older mind. It is
very hard to get the young American to do it. You cannot get young Americans to play their own football
games. They won't play it themselves. They have to get somebody else to manage it for them, someone to coach,
for the young American does not care to play his own game; they want to furnish the bulk and they
are run into the machine with someone else in charge. We all know who runs the games, who must be
gotten rid of, if the games are lost. In all college papers we find editorials as to whether a certain
individual should be gotten rid of or retained next year. It is easy to determine where the responsibility lies as
to games, and the same applies to studies. It is terribly hard to get the young American to stand on
his own feet, either in intellectual matters or other matters. All that is what we have to do. We have
got to insist that the students take the lead, and if they want to study, they must do that themselves.

LAST CALL
Any member of the student body who wishes to place cartoons in the "Sanity Rare" must have them in by
Saturday, March 12th. See Bob Platt in 304 Watts. The magazine goes to press on March 19th and all copy
must be edited and censored before this date. All students who have other humorous contributions are requested to hand these
in to Caldwell Withers at the earliest possible moment.

THE BEST PLACE TO EAT
Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WINDSTORMS
Perhaps not today or tomorrow, but Weather Bureau records show that every section of the country has its windstorm sometime.
It pays to carry enough Windstorm Insurance.
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Sharpshooters End Season This Week
The schedule of the Davidson rifle team for the year 1927 is just about over. The Fourth Corps Area match
has been fired and finished. However, at the time of this writing, the results of the match have not come
out. The five high point men of the Davidson team for this match were:
S. W. Vale ........................................ 1456
P. O. Ramsey .................................... 1428
N. G. George ..................................... 1395
B. W. Wood ....................................... 1392
E. D. Milenion .................................. 1355

The reports of the matches between the different colleges have not all come in, so it is impossible at this
time to even attempt to state whether or not Davidson has had a successful year in the rifle team. The
five highest scorers of the Davidson team who will be given their monogram by the R. O. T. C. Department
are:
S. W. Vale ........................................ 2221
W. B. Webb (Gift) .......................... 2147
J. M. Gunter ..................................... 2147
P. O. Ramsey .................................... 2170
E. D. Milenion .................................. 2106

These five are now training for the final match; the William Randolph Hearst trophy match. This is open to all
colleges having a R. O. T. C. unit. The Davidson team should do better in this match than in the
previous ones this year. This is the only one they have had quite enough time in which to practice. Lieutenant
Beckett has coached the team this year and has done some good work at it. The results of the matches
will be posted on the bulletin board in front of the Armory as soon as they come in. Captain Webb
has set the date of March 15th as the date on which all the firing must be finished and sent
to be compared with the others from all over the country.

Greatly enthused over the success of the fall series of meetings, the “Y” has planned a great spring service. The
speaker has been chosen with care, and the “Y” officers are confident that their choice has been a wise one.
The leader for these services will be Dr. E. G. Gammon, of Selma, Ala., a well-known preacher and speaker, a
very capable leader of men. There will be more announced later about these services.

SHOES FOR DAVIDSONIANS
GILMER-MOORE
high quality, of course. And they’re made for college men,---good looking, well made, styles you men like, the sort you
always prefer, by comparison.
Gilmer-Moore Company
CHARLOTTE

M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)
