THEDAVI Vol. XIV FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 24, 1927 SONIAN No. 20

Sophomores Hold Forth Tuesday Night in Queen City for Festive Event

Doctor Rowan, Alumni President Speaks to Class

FIRST CLASS EVENT

Majority of Members Attend — Faculty Members and Student Leaders Also Speak

The class of '29 assembled last Tuesday night in Charlotte on the roof garden of the Johnson building, almost one hundred per cent strong, and enjoyed what proved to be one of the greatest banquets ever given by a Sophomore class. The program was inspiring as well as entertaining, and a great time was had by all. The program was opened by an invocation by Bob Covington, followed by an address of welcome by Bob Kell, president of the class.

Among those outside of the class present were Coaches Younger and Tilson, Dr. Rowan, of Concord, Dr. McConnell, Prof. Bailey, Jim Appleby, Jim Pinkney, Allen Frew, Ernest Bohannon, Bill Christian, Lynn McClain, and Ernest Milton. Short talks of appreciation were given by several of these men. Dick Flynn acting as toastmaster handled things exceptionally well.

The program was interspersed between the various courses of the banquet. A very fitting toast to the visitors was made by Bob Grady, in which those present were welcomed, and, in behalf of the class, urged to enjoy themselves to the utmost. Other toasts were tendered as follows: toast to ’29 by Mac King, and to Davidson by Dick Kane. The main humorous event of the evening was in the form of a talk by “Riggs” (Continued on page 6)

ATTENTION FELLOWS

Greatest Junior Speaking of them all but two short months away. The Junior Class is working to make this the biggest, best, and most mirthful program in the history of the college. The festivities will last from April 14th through 16th and the Junior Class is anxious to have the student body as its guests at that time, and also the friends of each and every member of the students. If you haven't written that girl, write her now so she may help us add to the unprecedented bliss of the occasion. Write her now or somebody else will.

February 21, Glee Club Leaves on State-Wide Trip

The Glee Club will present a concert at Queens College, Charlotte, on Saturday, 20th, this concert being preliminary to a four-day trip in the northern part of the state which is to begin on March 3rd. A tour of South Carolina will be taken near the latter part of March. The program Saturday night will be somewhat similar to that given here on February 7th. The entire club, with the Jazz and Symphony Orchestras, will make the trip to Charlotte. Thirty-five men will make the trip to the northern part of the state, which includes Winston-Salem, Greensboro, and Lexington. The advance manager, Caldwell Withers, left Tuesday, February 22nd, to visit the cities in which concerts are to be given in order to complete all necessary arrangements, such as stage settings, advertising, etc. (Continued on page 6)

Noble, Former Professor at Davidson, Makes Talk on Pedagogy

“The teacher of today is no longer a bookworm or a mere philosopher,” declared Dr. M. C. S. Noble, Jr., connected with the state department of education at Raleigh, in an address given before a group of Davidson students on Wednesday, February 16th. The address was made to the students who were attending the Vocational Guidance Institute conducted by the Y. M. C. A. Dr. Noble was present to discuss “Education” as a profession, and began the second week of this attempt to decide upon their life work.

“The well-trained instructor is fast becoming a person who can expect and demand a respectable salary because he is expected to be a scientifically trained individual. He is also supposed to give from a richness of experience and information likely to stimulate a child's mind,” said the visiting speaker. He stated that there was no more exhilarating sport than to awaken young men to life’s opportunities. The declaration of Dr. Elliott, late president-emeritus of Harvard, was cited as an inducement to enter the teaching profession, for Dr. Elliott has said that he would rather be a school teacher than anything else in the world. “Fame, fortune, and happiness came to him by the highway of school teaching,” asserted Dr. Noble. In closing his address the speaker said that the price of being an instructor of education was laid down in “terms of a sound mind and a sound body, constant and well-organized study, and a desire for mental development.” (Continued on page 2)

Fresh Feast Comes on Ides of March

The Freshman banquet is to be an “Ides of March” affair, falling on Tuesday night, March 15th. This date was submitted by Dick Reynolds, chairman of the committee, at a recent meeting of the class, and was unanimously accepted. On that night the Freshmen will be entertained in Charlotte by the Chamber of Commerce at their hall. The invitation to the banquet was extended by Mr. Clarence Kuester, vice-president of the organization, who stated that in times past the Chamber of Commerce had been host to various Davidson organizations, and at this time wish to meet the Freshman Class.

Anticipating the pleasure and jollity of the occasion, plans for an interesting and amusing program continue to be drafted. The Toastmaster, Allan Frew, is working to make the occasion a jovial, enjoyable, informal get-together dinner in the interest of promoting a deeper Davidson spirit in the hearts of the new men. Under the direction of Charlie Orr, the musicians of the class are organizing to furnish musical entertainment. In addition, there will be music by a Charlotte orchestra. The program will be spiced by various types of talks, and the program committee, headed by Jim Matthews, is planning an after-dinner entertainment in the form of a minstrel. Action has been taken to secure transportation. (Continued on page 6)

Noted Wildcat Mentors Will Return Under New Long-Time Agreement

Rumors Are Squashed by Long Term Agreement

BOTH POPULAR HERE

Coaches Have Brilliant Record Here — Four Year Team Culminates in Championship

Monk Younger and Tex Tilson, noted and popular Wildcat mentors, whose success in developing a state championship gridiron team at Davidson College during the past football season led to clamor among a number of large southern colleges for their services, have signed a five-year contract and will return to Davidson again next fall, according to a recent announcement by Prof. W. W. Woods, graduate manager of athletics at the Presbyterian College. Thus, ends a number of wild rumors to the effect that neither of the two Davidson athletic instructors would return to the Mecklenburg institution again after this year. Joy reigns supreme in the Wildcat lair, as students unite with officials and alumni of the college in celebrating the signing of a contract that will insure Davidson the services of these two famous mentors for another five years, at least.

The two coaches had under consideration for some time the contract offered them by the Davidson athletic officials, their delay in signing leading to widespread speculation throughout the state as to whether they would remain at (Continued on page 5)

Dr. Ellis, Archeologist, Speaks on Bible Lands

Noted Authority on Old World Talks Three Times at Davidson — Illustrated Lecture

That the world waits for laggard Americato take her position as leader for a new realization of justice, democracy, and peace, declared Dr. W. T. Ellis, noted archaeologist and discoverer of Kadesh Barnea, before a packed house in Shearer Hall Monday night. After showing pictures of many parts of Bible lands, the speaker emphasized that America must take her place in world affairs to prevent the exploitation of the East by the imperialistic nations of Europe. Discussing the haziness of the public conception of Bible lands, the speaker declared that Palestine, the religious center of the world and Christian capital of all time, forms only a very small portion of Bible lands which extend from Italy to India and include portions of Greece, Persia, Rome, Asia Minor, and Egypt. The Temple of Vesta, the Parthenon, the Colosseum, and the Catacombs are comparatively few surviving examples of the architecture of bygone ages. The mosques and minarets of the Greek Church attract the eye of travelers entering Salonika. But the Greeks, now decayed to a pitiable condition, are rapidly being replaced by the more practical Bulgarians. Speaking next about the “New Turkey,” Dr. Ellis described the Western innovations in dress and government taking place there. The Koran is no longer the established book. Modern Angora resembles an American city with its bustle and industry. Scenes from the Holy Land were next presented, which depicted places prominent in the life and ministry of Christ. Nazareth, with its modern hospitals and churches, is still ministering to the suffering.

(Continued on page 5)

O. D. K. Delegation Offered

Davidson Board of Trustees Votes by Large Majority to Retain R. O. T. C.

Converse Club to Come to Davidson

Within the next few weeks, the Junior Class will sponsor the Converse College Glee Club in a concert at Davidson. The tentative date of March 11th has been set for the performance, but this date is rather uncertain at present. However, if the concert is not given on this date, it will be held soon after that, probably on March 18th. The concert is for the benefit of the Junior Class, and the money obtained will be used to help defray the expenses of Junior Week. The Junior entertainers have one of the best Glee Clubs in this section and have been much in demand in both the Carolinas and neighboring states. The students here will have to be out in full force to give these singers the audience to which they have become accustomed. The receipts should be quite large, and this will aid the Junior Class treasury a great deal. Plans for Junior Week are fast nearing completion and will soon be in final shape. For the last month, the various committees have been working feverishly on their assignments, and the chairmen are now beginning to settle back with the feeling that their labor is almost over.

(Continued on page 6)

Back from Virginia

At the recent convention of Kappa Delta Pi, honorary fraternity, held at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va., three well-known members of the Davidson circle represented the local chapter. These men were J. M. Covington, W. J. Lingle, and W. M. Austin, alternate. The national officers elected are as follows: President, Dean Prince, University of Richmond; Vice President, Dr. J. C. French, Johns Hopkins; Executive Secretary, W. M. Brown, Washington and Lee. On Friday night, the address of welcome by F. H. Quarles of the University of Virginia circle formally opened the convention. This address was responded to by Prof. A. G. Williams of William and Mary. At this session, the reports of the various circles were heard. An address by the retiring president, A. G. Williams, showed that “The organization is pulsating with life, and rapidly growing in membership and health.” In his address, Prof. Williams told of the

(Continued on page 8)

INTER-CLASS BOXING

An inter-class boxing tournament will be inaugurated at Davidson early in April if plans now proposed by Captain Elkins materialize. Intercollegiate boxing has been barred at Davidson by faculty regulations, but there are enough lovers of the sport to warrant inter-mural activities. A ring has been completed and is now being set up in the gymnasium. All those who would be interested in taking part in the manly art are requested to turn in their names to Captain Elkins, or else report for practice as soon as possible.

Class Dance Petition is Voted Down

PROFESSORS ELECTED

Members Manifest Decided Interest in Completion of New Chambers Building Plan

The Board of Trustees of Davidson College, on Wednesday, February 16th, voted to continue the R. O. T. C. Department at Davidson, refused a petition for a Junior dance to be held in the college gymnasium, conferred five degrees, re-elected all now assistant and associate professors connected with the institution, and manifested a decided interest in the completion of the new Chambers building. Thirty-five of the fifty-seven members of the board were present in a lengthy session, concluding their business at six o'clock. Considerable objection to the presence of the Reserve Officers Training Corps at Davidson has recently been manifested, the grounds for it being that a militaristic unit should not exist in a Church school such as Davidson. The trustees, however, voted 28 to 0 in favor of maintaining it here, thus closing an issue which has been before the Board for several years. The student petitions were considered by the Board, one of them asking permission of the Trustees to hold a dance in the college gymnasium as a feature of the Junior-Speaking program in April. The petition, submitted by the Junior class and endorsed by a large number of student leaders, met with the overwhelming disapproval of the Board, the vote against granting such permission being 23-8. No explanation of the unfavorable action on this petition accompanied the report of the Board's committee. It is generally understood about the campus, however, that the Trustees are almost unanimously opposed to any proposal for a change of attitude on the matter of

(Continued on page 5)

I.R.C. Holds Convention in Atlanta During Week

Dillard and McCutcheon to Represent Davidson Chapter—Many Other Members Attend

T. G. McCutcheon and Tyree Dillard were chosen recently as delegates from the Davidson International Relations Club to the Southern Students Conference of International Relations. This convention will be held in Atlanta, Ga., February 24th through February 26th. Emory University will be the host to the male delegates and Agnes Scott will entertain the delegates from the women’s schools. Only representatives from Southern colleges and schools will be present. At this meeting, problems of world interest will be discussed by some of the foremost speakers of the South. These conventions are held annually and are very helpful in that they give those present the opportunity of hearing fine discussions on important questions. Among the speakers will be Dr. Jackson. Davidson students will recall that this speaker spoke to them recently and that he is recognized as an authority on these matters. The Davidson delegates are men who have distinguished themselves in college activities and especially in the matter of International affairs. Both are leaders in literary society work, being members of the Eu society. McCutcheon is a varsity debater, having debated against P. C. last spring. He is a member of the Sigma Upsilon Honorary Fraternity and

(Continued on page 7)