THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 8, 1927

—————

News and Views of Wildcat Events
By Raymond Lake

For the past three months, this column has been devoted to the king of college sports, namely football. But now we must pass on to some of the lesser sports, which, though not so outstanding and popular, nevertheless come in for their share of popular approval during their respective seasons. Basketball and wrestling have been started, and the candidates for positions on these teams are working hard now and two more Wildcat teams are rounding into shape. Coach Monk has had his basketball squad hard at it for the last few days, and the prospects for the year are encouraging. There are four letter men back from last year’s squad, including Captain Ben Wilson. These four men, McAulay, Harrison, Hewlett, and Wilson, all showed up mighty well last year, and will no doubt form a strong team this year. Several other members of last year’s squad who did not make letters will be fighting for places on the team this year, and with this much material, the Wildcat quintet will furnish some strong opposition in the fight for state honors. The comparatively unsuccessful football season may be made up for by the basketball team. It does no harm to have our hopes at any rate.

Coach Tex, who is taking the place of Captain Weems as coach of the wrestling team, has also been putting his charges through some rather heavy workouts. Quite a few would-be wrestlers have been reporting daily for workouts, and it looks like some good new material may be discovered here also. The men from last year’s team who are back are Captain Garrison, T. E. Hill, Flythe, and Malden. Three of these men made letters last year, and with another year’s experience and growth behind them, will be hard to down this year.

The other post-season game which should be of interest to the Wildcats is the N. C. State-Michigan State game. The Wolfpack upheld the honor of the Old North State by defeating the visitors from Michigan by the score of 19 to 0. We congratulate the Wolfpack on their victory. We were against them when they met the Wildcats this year, and every other year for that matter, but now that they have downed us, we are behind them and are pulling for them as well as for the other teams of the state in their games with teams from other states.

—————

Wildcat Quintet Begins Work For Initial Game
“Dutch” Hengeveld Coaching—Several Letter Men Back

In the past three weeks, varsity basketball practice has been going on, and the team is rapidly being whipped into shape for the approaching season. Every afternoon at 4:00 o’clock practice has been held under the supervision of “Dutch” Hengeveld, formerly coach of basketball here. Workouts so far have been composed mostly of limbering up the squad, but since Coach Monk took over supervision of practice several days ago, the time has been spent on regular scrimmage. Workouts of this nature will be held until Christmas, and the indications are that the team will be in good shape for the first game.

There are several men from last year’s varsity who will be the mainstays of the team this year. Ben Wilson, captain of the Wildcat quintet, is expected to show his usual good form at center. Charlie Harrison, playing guard, is as fast on the basketball court as on the gridiron, and will be one of the most valuable players. McAulay and probably Pritchett will probably play forward. Pritchett, captain of last year’s Freshman team, has been showing up best of all the Sophomores, and bids fair for a berth on the varsity. He is fast and gets about very well on the floor. Andy Hewlett, letter man, but who did not play last year, has been showing good form and will probably play at forward or guard. Johnny Kugler also has been going good with his usual speed. From present indications, the team will not have many reserves. There are several men of the Sophomore class who are making a good appearance and will probably be seen in the games. Jim Moore and Johnston, at forward, and Mauze and Baker, at guards, have been showing up fairly well.

The first game of the season will be with Salisbury “Y” on December 17, and this will be the only game before Christmas. Last year the two games with Salisbury were very close, each team winning one game and only by the margin of one point. The Davidson cagers will be in good condition for the fray, and rearing to go.

—————

Michigan State Bows to Strong N.C. State Team
Wolfpack Emerges Victorious by 19 Point Margin

Rain and mud marked the final game of Jack McDowall and the end of North Carolina football for 1927. The N. C. State champs annexed another victory to their column by defeating the Spartans from Michigan State, 19 to 0, on December 3rd, at Raleigh. Pulling together at the very start, the Wolfpack, with Warren carrying the ball, put the pigskin across the goal line in the first quarter. The recovery of a Michigan fumble by Crum, two runs by McDowall, and a plunge by Warren spelled the first touchdown for State. The other two touchdowns came in the final period. Warren scored the second counter, after the ball had been pushed from midfield to the three-yard line. Albert Crum, the little fellow from Hamlet, N. C., was wide-awake in all the mud, and scooped another Spartan fumble to race 30 yards for the final touchdown of the game. McDowall passed to Jordan to make the extra point good.

In the third quarter, after both teams had filed back on the field in clean, dry uniforms, it looked like there would be a different story to tell. Deacon, a substitute Spartan quarterback, intercepted one of Jack McDowall’s famous passes and raced 25 yards to be downed 15 yards from State’s goal. Passes and bucks failed to work and the ball went over. A penalty moved N. C. State back to her three-yard line, but a short kick, an intercepted pass, and another kick, put the ball well out of the Wolfpack’s territory. The entire game was a muddy affair. A slight drizzling rain kept up throughout the whole game to dampen the spirit of the crowd. It was a clipping and sliding fight all the way.

—————

You will find Christmas Gifts for Men

In our men’s department, a most complete assortment of every description that will please even the most fastidious of men—a most complete assortment of both clothing and haberdashery all moderately priced—come in and see our selection.Through. Michigan State put up a game fight, but they could not stand the North Carolina mud and Jack McDowall. Dickerson, at quarterback, and Captain Smith, at half, were perhaps the Spartan stars. The box score follows: (2), Crum; point after touchdown: State: Jordan (pass). Officials—Carrington (Virginia), referee; Major (Auburn), umpire; Early (Miami), head linesman; Magoffin (Michigan University), field judge.

Wildkitten Matmen Showing Good Form

With the close of the football season, the interest, and some of the members of the Freshman class, now turns to the equally testing sport of wrestling. Practice in this sport has been under way for several weeks, and indications are that a well-coached and well-matched team will represent the Freshmen this year. Many men are now practicing, and several others have signified their intention to try their skill at an early date. Of these men, some have had practice in various prep and high schools, but the majority are now trying for the first time. The instruction this year has been placed in the hands of Coach Tilson and Prof. Paul Patterson, and these instructors have been putting the men in shape with moderate workouts and drill in the fundamentals. Although it is yet too early to predict the strength of the teams, Estridge, Boyle, Coble, Stroud, and Pepper, in assorted weights, are showing up well. A complete list of those out is: Doduck, Umphlett, Norfleet, Moore, Stroud, Preston, Coble, Pepper, Smith, McKeithan, Laurence, Jones, Ellis, Estridge, and Knight.

Michigan State Position N. C. State
Christensen ---- LE ---- Jordan
Moeler ---- LT ---- Vaughn
Ross ---- LG ---- Metts
Hitchings ---- RG ---- Nicholson (c)
Hornbeck ---- RT ---- Childress
Dickeson ---- QB ---- Adams
Drew ---- LH ---- McDowall
Smith (c) ---- RH ---- Crum
Soma ---- FB ---- Warren

Michigan State ---- 0 0 0 0 — 0
North Carolina State ---- 6 0 0 13 — 19

Scoring — Touchdowns: State, Warren

Davidson Grapplers Fast Rounding Into Old Shape To Meet Concord “Y” Here on December 17th

Coaches “Tex” Tilson and Prof. Paul M. Patterson are rounding their wrestling team into shape for their first meet, which is to be held with Concord “Y” at Davidson on the 16th of December. Professor Patterson has, for the past two weeks, been giving the men who answered the call which was given out, their daily workouts in the gymnasium, and as a result of hard work on the part of both instructor and aspirants, the men are all in good shape. Three letter men from last year’s team form the nucleus around which the coaches are building their team. These men are: Flythe, Tom Hill, and Jeff Garrison. Flythe, who wrestled in the 129-pound class last year, is taking strenuous workouts in the endeavor to bring his weight down enough to enable him to wrestle in the 119-pound class. Tom Hill, who wrestled in the heavyweight class and was outweighed in practically every match, will wrestle in his own class, the 169-pound class this year. Jeff Garrison, who is captain of this year’s team, and who also wrestled out of his class, will be back in his own class this year. He wrestles in the 149-pound class. Besides these letter men, there are a good many men from last year’s Freshman team who are out for the team and are showing up exceptionally well, and a wealth of last year’s reserve material who are doing excellent work. Some of these men are: Glenn, Christenbury, Harper, Warren, Pritchett, L. K., Russell, Morris, Frank Brown, Heriot, and Cox. These men are competing for the various weights, and all of them are working hard in an effort to gain a place on the team. Some of the other meets of the season are with Carolina, on February 4th, at Davidson; one with V. M. I., in Lexington, on the 11th of February; one with W. and L., in Lexington, on the 13th. On the 18th of February, a meet is tentative with either High Point or Concord. If High Point is wrestled, the meet will be held in Davidson; if with Concord, there. Other meets are with Duke, at Durham, on the 25th of February, and one with N. C. State, in Raleigh, on the 27th of the same month.

Bleachers Will Be Painted Next Spring

The bleachers will not be removed from their present resting place around Richardson Field until some time in the early spring, according to “Spike” McGee, the slave-driver of the Freshmen. They will be painted at that time, and are to remain in the present position until that time in order that this work may be facilitated. In the past, the Freshmen have set up the bleachers on Richardson Field just before the beginning of each football season, and have stored them in the basement of the gymnasium at the end of the season. In the spring they were again brought out and placed around the baseball field. The cooperation of the various Freshman classes has served to keep the bleachers in excellent repair. Since the stadium has been built, the bleachers have been stored there, and not nearly so much work has been entailed in their storage and removal. Up until last year, the bleachers were arranged around the entire field, but the erection of the stadium has reduced the need for so many sections. Due to the fact that the bleachers will not be removed from the field, immediately after they have been painted and repaired, they will be moved to the sidelines of the baseball diamond where they will remain throughout the spring.

EDUCATOR SPEAKS (Continued from page one)

be entertained with a banquet. Dr. Watts is chairman of the entertainment committee for the occasion. The men who will be initiated are D. H. Howard, C. G. Davidson, J. S. Gray, J. S. McAlister, and H. B. Arbuckle, Jr., of the student body; Professors Archibald Currie and H. T. Lilly, of the faculty; and Dr. H. Stokes Monroe, Mr. Clifton Murphy, Dr. Joseph T. Wearn, Rev. Locke White, Dr. W. H. Rogers, Ph.D., Prof. F. P. Hall, and Dr. F. W. Rankin, of the alumni. 

ington, on the 13th. On the 18th of February, a meet is tentative with either High Point or Concord. If High Point is wrestled, the meet will be held in Davidson; if with Concord, there. Other meets are with Duke, at Durham, on the 25th of February, and one with N. C. State, in Raleigh, on the 27th of the same month.

Let us help you choose your gifts. We have an assortment of goods that express that true Christmas Spirit and the prices are made for you. Do your shopping now.

10% Reduction ON FELT GOODS The Students Store.