THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 10, 1927

Sonian Musical Program to be Given Before Students by Converse Glee Club

Dandy Belles From South Carolina School to Sing

FEATURE ATTRACTIONS

Many Harmonious Choral Numbers Found on Program—Comedy Skit May Be Presented

Coming to Davidson with a stock of songs and skits sure to captivate any college audience, the Converse College Glee Club, composed of the flower of pulchritude, will present a program in Shearer Hall on Friday night, March 11th. This attraction is being brought here through the efforts of the Junior Class in order to swell their coffers for a better and more elaborate Junior Speaking. The Converse musicians have a reputation for putting over glee club performances in splendid style and their appearance at Davidson should prove otherwise.

Beginning the program with chorus presentations of a more or less classical nature, the young ladies will offer numbers of many different varieties capped off, in their own inimitable style, by something indeed unusual. Not only is this glee club noted throughout North and South Carolina for its well-trained chorus, but the individual numbers are of great merit for a college organization also. Vocal and instrumental numbers as well as several readings will be presented. One of the most distinctive features of the entertainment will be the renditions by the glee club orchestra.

The Converse Glee Club will not be the only Converse attraction on the campus during the month, for on March 29th the Dramatic Club from the same institution will be brought here under the auspices of the Junior Class as another feature of their pro-Junior Speaking program. More will be said (Continued on page 5)

HAMPDEN INSTITUTE

A group of Indians and Negroes, representatives of Hampden Normal and Agricultural Institute, Hampden, Va., will be heard by the Davidson students and townspeople in Shearer Hall on the night of March 24th. There will be no charge for admission. As North Carolina leads the South in colored education, these representatives wish to tell what they are doing. In their appearance will be a large number of vocal and instrumental numbers. Short talks will also be given. The time will be 7:30.

Juniors Will Raise Funds for Speaking

Each Junior is being assessed this year in an effort to raise money to help defray expenses of Junior Speaking week. Under the direction of Dick Carr, who is chairman of the finance committee, a three-day campaign was put on for the collection of these fees. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday a canvass was made in each dormitory in an attempt to see every Junior and to collect his fees. All Juniors who were not seen during this canvass or who failed to pay their fees are urged to pay them as soon as possible as the finance committee is making a concerted drive in order to have all the money in before the 14th of April.

In previous years the expenses of Junior week have caused the classes to be in debt at the end of the year and the money to have to be raised during their Senior year with which to pay these debts. The assessment of the present Junior class, and the canvass, were put on in an attempt to have all money in and all debts paid before the end of the year. (Continued on page 5)

Freshmen to be Banqueted Tuesday by Charlotte Chamber of Commerce

Delightful Program is Arranged—Faculty Members and Alumni to be Guests

The Freshman banquet, the one event claiming the interest and attention of all first-year men, has been definitely set for 6:30 o'clock, March 15th. On that evening the Freshmen will be guests of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, having the invitation of Mr. Clarence Kuester, Vice-President of the organization. Preparations have been going on for weeks to make the affair a memorable get-together of the class of ’30, and the occasion is being anticipated with the greatest interest and enthusiasm.

According to a tentative program arranged by the several committees, the banquet is to be an informal dinner for all the new men. The Freshmen will have a chance to get better acquainted with each other around the feast-table and build a real class spirit.

The address of welcome will be given by a member of the Chamber of Commerce, followed by several selections from the quartet. Under the direction of E. B. Peterson, the quartet is composed of the best voices of the Freshman class. Alan Frew, class president and toastmaster of the occasion, will then say a few words. During the course of the dinner there will be numerous toasts and impromptu talks to add pep and spice to the program. Next, the athletes of the class, outstanding in football, basketball, track, and other sports will discuss ath- (Continued on page 5)

High School Meet Comes March 19th

All the high schools of North Carolina have been invited to compete in a track meet, to be held here Saturday, March 19th. A much larger percentage of the schools than before have stated their intention of coming, but all entry blanks must be in by March 17th. The Davidson Freshmen will be allowed to compete, but their points will not be counted in the official scores.

This will be the third year that the Davidson Athletic Association has sponsored this meet, the object of which is to give the high school cinder stars experience in competitions of this nature. This experience has always been particularly valuable to them in their participation at the annual State High School meet held later in the spring. An exceptionally handsome loving cup will be awarded to the winner by the Athletic Association, which is certainly worthy of the highest endeavor of each team.

Last year the meet was easily won by Charlotte High School with a total of 45 1-2 points, barely beating out the Davidson Freshmen, who came next with 44 points. Greensboro High took second place among the high schools with 24 points, and Concord was next with 6 points. Heretofore the interest has been high and the competition keen, and all even this year.

Athletic Night Set for Today to be Postponed to March 18th or 24th

Football Team Will be Banqueted by Faculty

ALUMNI COMING UP

Norris Trophy Will be Awarded—Football Trophy Presented by Schiffner Company

The date for Athletic Night which was set for Thursday night, March 10th, has been postponed as Thursday has been set apart by the Southern Presbyterian Church as a day of fasting and prayer. It was thought unfitting by the faculty to hold on that date any form of entertainment and the banquet which is to be given by the faculty in honor of the football team. The future date for Athletic Night has not been definitely set but an appropriate night within the next week or two will be chosen as soon as possible.

The banquet will be served at the Hotel, with this novel and attractive feature added to the program. At the public exercises in Shearer Hall immediately after the banquet, certificates will be presented to all the men who have (Continued on page 3)

Student Elections Will Begin Monday Morning

Student Body President Will be Chosen Monday Morning—Others Follow During Week

The student body elections will begin next Monday morning with the election of the president of the student body. In former years the president of the Y. M. C. A. has been elected first, but a change in the order of elections has recently been made, and from now on the president of the student body will be elected first.date. No change has been made in the date for elections. For the third year, elections have begun in March and extended over several weeks into spring holidays, at which date all elections must be over. The order of the elections will be as follows: after the election of the president of the student body, the President of the Y. M. C. A., editor of The Davidsonian, president of the Athletic Association, editor of the Magazine, and then the various other elections in order suitable to the ones concerned. The class elections, Student Council elections, and all others will be scattered over the few remaining weeks before the spring holidays begin. The nominations for the various positions will be made as in former years. The Student Council will nominate the president of the student body. Other nominations will, of course, be heard from the floor. The “Y” cabinet and the publication staffs will nominate men for the editorship of their respective papers. The elections for positions on the Student Council will be held at some time decided by the members of the Council. The Council will nominate several men from each class for the positions, and from those nominated, the various classes will select the members, the rising Senior class choosing seven men, the rising Juniors four, and the rising Sophomores three. 

The interest in the elections this year is exceptionally keen, and the outcome of the various ballotings is being anxiously awaited and looked forward to. Several men are outstanding in every line of work, and the votes promise to be close.

Davidson Baseball Schedule to Include Twenty-One Games With Extended Trips

Team to Meet Oglethorpe Squad in Atlanta

PROSPECTS MEDIOCRE

Northern Trip is Eliminated in Favor of Southern Tour—Large Squad Out

The Davidson College baseball schedule for this season, as announced by Manager J. C. Bernhardt, includes 21 games, representing the largest schedule undertaken in the past four years, and perhaps the biggest during the history of baseball at Davidson. Ten of the diamond contests will be staged on the home lot, while 11 of them will be played on foreign territory. It has been customary for the Davidson baseball team to make a Virginia trip, but this has been substituted for one which includes South Carolina teams and extends to a brace of games with Oglethorpe, in Atlanta, Ga. No game is scheduled for Gastonia as in the past several years, but two mix-ups with Salisbury are included. The season will open March 25th with a pair of games with Oak Ridge Institute. This program is in keeping with the custom of many years, and it is seldom that either Davidson or Oak Ridge obtains a unanimous decision in these tilts.

The complete schedule is as follows:
March 25—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
March 26—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
March 29—Elon at Davidson.
April 1—Lenoir-Rhyne at Davidson.
April 4—Duke University at Davidson.
April 7—Wofford at Spartanburg, S.C.
April 8—Furman University at Greenville, S.C.
April 9—Clemson College at Clemson College, S.C.
April 11—Oglethorpe University at Atlanta, Ga.
April 12—Oglethorpe University at Atlanta, Ga.

Forensic Tryouts Result in Selection of Speakers for the Varsity Debates

Interclass Track Meet on Saturday

During the last week, the track team has had to practice in the gym because of the heavy rain. On Wednesday, Coach Tilson brought forth the annual pledge, and 36 men who are eligible for the varsity signed to show, together with 31 freshmen. The first meet is on the 26th of March, with Virginia Polytechnic Institute, at Blacksburg, Va. V. P. I. is reported as having a strong team. The class meet will be held Saturday according to present plans, but on account of the bad weather, it may be postponed. No man is eligible for the meet who has made his letter in varsity track. Each class is concentrating on this meet and endeavoring to win it. All of the classes have elected managers. Any class may enter as many men in each event as it pleases. The chairman of Senior track is Buford Webb, who won his letter in cross country. “Mutt” Stigler has been elected head of Junior track. He is a middle-distance man and ran in several varsity meets last year. Bob Kell was elected to lead the Sophs. He is a quarter-miler from last year’s Freshman team. The Freshmen appointed a committee consisting of King Henderson, Perkinson, and A. H. Whittle, of which Whittle is chairman.

The first track meet on the home track will be the high school meet in which the Frosh team is also entered.

L. K. Pritchett, Henry Powell, W. K. Pritchett, and R. C. Grady to Oppose Emory and Duke

In the two preliminary debating try-outs which have been held thus far, two teams have been selected of the four which will represent Davidson this spring. L. K. Pritchett and Henry Powell compose one of these teams; W. K. Pritchett and R. C. Grady make up the other. In addition to these teams, two others will be selected sometime during this month. The first try-out was held Tuesday night, March 1st. The question which was debated was: Resolved, That the United States should adopt a uniform marriage and divorce law. The decision of the judges, Drs. Vowles, Foreman, Lingle, and Prof. Guy R. Henry, gave L. K. Pritchett first place on this team and Powell second place, with Frank Hall as alternate. On the schedule planned for this team is a debate against Johns Hopkins University, to be held at Queens College, in Charlotte, and also a debate against the team from Duke University, at N. C. C. W., in Greensboro, N. C. The team from Davidson will uphold the negative side of the question in both of these contests. Others who took part in the try-out for the team are: R. C. Grady, J. P. McKnight, J. R. Graham, and J. A. McAlpine. At the second try-out, which was held on the night of March 4th, a team was selected to debate Emory University, at Davidson. Dr. J. M. McConnell, Prof. J. P. Williams, and Prof. Guy R. Henry were the judges.