THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 13, 1927

Sport Talk -:- News and Views of Wildcat Events - By Raymond Lake

Once again the Wildcats are victorious. It just looks like as long as they keep that old fighting spirit they can’t be downed. Some were expecting a larger score to be piled up Saturday, and had the weather not been so unfavorable, it undoubtedly would have been a little more one-sided. We've got no kick coming, however. Due to the inclement weather the game was a little slow, but the Wildcats fought hard and did their bit.

The next problem is Elon College. We can’t afford to slip up and let the Elon eleven do to the Wildcats what it did to the Demon Deacons. After winning the first three games, it would be a very easy thing for the Wildcats to get overconfident and let Elon cause another upset this season like they caused two weeks ago. It would mean quite a bit to Elon to defeat Davidson, and there's no doubt but that they'll be primed for a battle royal Saturday. However, if Monk and Tex can’t keep the team from becoming overconfident, it just can’t be done, so there’s no use wasting any sleep over the matter.

Just as in the first two games, it looked like they couldn’t stop Charlie Harrison last Saturday. He broke loose repeatedly and made long gains for the Wildcats. For those hearing the reports at the gym, just as in the first two games again, those were exciting times when the reports came in that Harrison, Grey, or Nisbet was on his way down the field. And those two times when Harrison and Nisbet got past the safety man seemed to have another touchdown already made! If the field had been dry, there is every reason to believe that we would have had at least two more touchdowns, one each of these times when a touchdown seemed so inevitable, and then the man carrying the ball stumbled.

In the line, Melton, Laws, and McColgan starred. They broke through and threw the Terriers for losses two or three times, and so far as gaining over them was concerned, well, that just wasn’t done. The whole line held and fought fine, but these three seemed to be especially active. Hampton was kept out of the game on account of a slightly injured ankle which he received in the Florida game, but the pivot position was held down in great style by DeArmon and McConnell. A few gains were made over center, but they were few and far between, and we have nothing to fear from this position.

Carolina seems to be throwing off the jinx and starting out on a winning streak. The Old Line of Maryland was no “crip” and the Tar Heels came out on the long end of a 7 to 6 score. Well, we're satisfied for Carolina to win all up to the 12th of November. On that date, however, we'd like for last year’s history to repeat itself. State College also did well last week. They played a comparatively weak team, but they came out 19 points ahead, and there’s no use running the score up any higher than that. Duke, however, did not fare so well. The Blue Devils have a powerful team this year, but the Generals were too much for them and came out with a 7 to 0 victory.

The victory of Georgia over Yale last week was another triumph of the same nature as that of Duke over Boston two weeks ago. It has been a comparatively unusual thing until recently for a Southern College to triumph over the large Eastern Universities, such as Yale and Boston, but Duke and Georgia have led the way and this feat is becoming a little more common.

The Freshmen did not fare so well in their initial game this year, but when we take into consideration the facts that Oak Ridge always has an unusually strong prep school team, and that they had played together before this year, while this was the first attempt for the Wildkittens, we realize that they did not make such a bad showing after all. Oak Ridge beat the Blue Devil Freshmen two weeks ago, and, all things being considered, we think the Wildkittens did well. Reid and Foil seem to have a bright future for the Wildkittens.

Students Hear Reports From Spartanburg Fray

Large Crowd Visits Gym to Hear Returns

Davidson 12, Wofford 2! This was the last and most important message received by those who attended the play-by-play report of the Davidson-Wofford game at the gym last Saturday. The Wildcat-Terrier mix-up took place at Spartanburg, and it was not thought practical to run a special train or busses there, as it was one of the less important games and also because of the limited amount of time which would have been available to make the trip. The cheer leaders hope to have a united migration of the Davidson student body to the State, Carolina, and other games, and wished to reduce the financial strain as far as possible in preparation for these general uprisings. Influenced by these reasons, yet desiring that the students and friends of Davidson might receive some of the same thrills as the more fortunate ones who watched from the stadium, arrangements were made as in the past to have a special wire run into the gym. A large crowd was on hand to hear the returns. The cheer leaders served on the receiving end and announced the various plays. The system used is one in which a miniature football field was laid off. The board, showing the amount of ground gained or lost and the position of the ball, is marked in different colored chalk so that one receives a fair idea of the game. Other information in regard to the game as well as bits of humor served to fill in the intermissions and to keep the large number who attended in a receptive mood. A small admission fee helped to defray the expense of the special wire.

Wildcats to Meet Elon Players Here Saturday

The Wildcats, after playing three games on foreign gridirons, return to Davidson to meet Elon in their first home game Saturday. Elon seems to have a little bit of that fighting spirit that will function after the first trial. North Carolina State's victory over Elon early in the season came before any real spirit and fight could be developed in the little Christian team. Of course, the Wolfpack won. As much could have perhaps been guessed, comparing the sizes of the two schools. After another week’s practice Elon came back and succeeded in holding Wake Forest to a scoreless tie. Regardless of the many alibis on either side, the score remains evident, Wake Forest 0, Elon 0. Davidson, on the other hand, has won their first three games on the card. Their chances to become highly elated and somewhat swell-headed have been tripled. If anything loses the game for Davidson, it will be that, but a loss is not being contemplated by the Wildcats this year. The strength of Elon is not to be belittled. They have a team slightly heavier than the Wildcats, and a rather speedy backfield. There is no team that is always defeated, and it is sure some one will come out the winner in Saturday's game here.

CLUBS TO BE FORMED (Continued from page 1)

...ment the courses in English with modern literature. Also so that there will be no waste time in getting the most recent and best of modern contemporaneous literature. Also Professor Cumming pointed out the advantages of this new club over the Book-of-the-Month Club, in that the members would get the same advantages as the Book-of-the-Month Club but with the added advantage of a cheaper cost and wider selection of books from which to choose. Although no definite steps have been taken, the club is practically a certainty with only a few minor details such as the keeping of the books and the size of the club to be worked out.

Davidson Football Team Not to Play Army Next Year, Says Final Report

Graduate Manager W. W. Wood Issues Final Statement

DATE NOT SUITABLE

Authorities Hope to Be Able to Arrange Games in Future Years

Davidson will not play Army in football next year, according to Graduate Manager W. W. Wood. The Army could offer the Wildcats only one date, November 3rd, and it was impossible to accept this date on account of conflicts with games in North Carolina. The matter was given a great deal of consideration, and correspondence exchanged with the West Point authorities, but it seemed impossible to arrange the contest. For several weeks the campus has been so as to permit the acceptance of Army’s offer. The students were enthusiastic over the prospect of a meeting between the Wildcats and such a noted foe as the Cadets. Davidson has established a splendid record in Southern gridiron circles, and, judging from this year’s victories over The Citadel, Wofford, and the University of Florida, Monk Younger’s warriors are going to kick up a lot of dust before the curtain falls again. The approaching games with Wake Forest, State, Duke, Carolina, and V. M. I., will give a good idea of the real strength of the red-clad eleven which so often has thrown consternation into larger and more experienced opponents. Davidson, in playing the Army, would be forced to withstand a tremendous handicap of weight and reserve material, but the followers of the Wildcats have all confidence in their team to put up a terrific battle against any opposition. The Army would have anything but a set-up, and Davidson...would have a chance to win, or at least hold their famous opponents, and thereby make a name for the college in the North. In the last communication received from West Point, the following statement was made: “We hope that a satisfactory date can be arranged at some other time.” The fact that a game was offered to Davidson should be fully appreciated by everyone interested in the college. It is a distinct compliment to the spirit and fighting ability of the Wildcat, and the day will come when that snarling Cat will carry the battle to Army’s own backyard—for the honor of Old Davidson. It is with great regret that we learn of the inability of the Davidson and Army officials to arrange a game for next year. Such a game would mean much to the Wildcats, and would add much to the prestige of the Wildcats in the North. This would also be one more connection between Northern and Southern colleges, and we hope that the Wildcats and the Cadets will be able to meet in the future.

BIG FIVE SCORERS
Player College Td. Ex.Pt. F.G. T'tl.
Jankoski, Duke
Grey, R., Dav.
Adams, State
Warren, State
Goodwin, State
Outen, State
Flynn, Dav.
Cox, W. F.
Ferrell, Carolina
Childress, State
Lepo, State
Ward, Carolina
Wearn, Davidson
Connally, W. F.
James, W. F.
McConnell, Dav.*
Schuler, Carolina*
Buie, Duke
Kelly, Duke
Whisnant, Car'l’na*
*Safety.

Class Basketball Series to Start Monday Night
Four Teams Practicing Hard for Strenuous Schedule

The class basketball series, which is the leading interclass activity of the college, opens Monday night, October 17th, with an initial contest between the Juniors and Seniors. Every team bids fair to give hard battles and a good fight for first place. The Freshmen, as usual, are the dark horses of the race, and not much can be told about the material they will have until further practices have been held. Under the leadership of Ben Wilson, the varsity basketball captain, they will probably be able to put out a very good team. Last year the Juniors copped the championship, with the Seniors, Freshmen, and Sophomores following in the order named. The two former years it was won by the Sophomores. The Sophomores are being coached by Ben McAuley, the Juniors by Pat Crawford, and the Seniors by Johnnie Kugler. Under the leadership of these experienced players, some foundations will be laid for the 1927-28 varsity. As soon as the students learned of the invitation to play the Army, most of them were heartily in favor of the game, and it was generally hoped that the plans would formulate. It offered a rosy prospect to think of the Wildcats playing the Army. A special blackboard has been arranged on the field to formulate the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was on the field to formu- late the telegrams, while Charles Trabue was