THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 13, 1927

PLAYING THE GAME | With Withers

Ushering in the new year with a series of victories, Davidson athletic teams have entered upon a period that promises
to exceed even the most exultant hopes of many ardent Wildcats. The period of athletic contests is rudely broken by
the ten-day stretch given over to examinations the last of this month.

Two Cage Outfits Lose to Davidson

The sweeping victory of the basketball team last Friday over the Concord Y. M. C. A. aggregation was the initial
battle of 1927. On December 18th, the last Saturday night before the Christmas holidays began, the Davidson quintet triumphantly brought
in the 1926-27 basketball season by defeating Salisbury “Y” by a 33-31 score. The scoring by the two teams was
very close during the whole game, there being no big difference at any time in the number of baskets made
by the opposing teams. However, the Wildcats set the pace during the whole game, keeping in the lead until by
accurate shooting the visiting team tied the score 31-31 in the last minute of play. At this time, when a
basket meant the game, Captain Anderson led the Wildcats to a 33-31 win by shooting a goal from the court
a few seconds before the final whistle.

Following close upon the heels of the Christmas recess when the cagers were out of training for two weeks, this
win is even more heartening than it would be otherwise. This win is the second of the present season, the
strong Salisbury “Y” team falling before the onslaught of the accurate shooting of Captain Anderson and McAuley by a couple
point margin shortly before the holidays.

Coach Weems’ wrestlers opened their season Saturday night in Concord, grappling the “Y” team of that city, by a 35
to 0 victory. The Wildcat men seemed to have had a comparative easy time as the longest time required for
any match was eight minutes. Although no positions of the team have been finally decided, it is highly probable that
the men who face N. C. State here Saturday will be the Davidson “Varsity” this season.

Davidson over Concord ‘Y’ Team

Every Match Won by Fall in Short Time

The Davidson wrestling team opened its season with an easy victory over the grapplers of the Concord “Y”. Every man
on the Davidson team won his match by a fall, the longest time required being eight minutes. Several of the
men were not in the best of condition, due to the holidays, but the decisiveness of the victory means much
to the Davidson team.

Techmen Come for Wrestling Contest

On Saturday night, January 15th, at 8:00 p.m., in the gymnasium, the Wildcat wrestling team, under the leadership of Captain
Frierson, meets its second foe of the season in North Carolina State College. This meet promises to be one of
the best of the season inasmuch as the Davidson wrestlers are fast reaching top form, while State is reputed to
have even a stronger team than last year; and those here remember what a fight State put up last year
against Davidson even though the latter decisively trounced her Raleigh foes. Altogether, the match should be a good one—hard fought;
the Wildcats enter the meet favorite, for Davidson this year is represented by one of the strongest teams she has
ever turned out, being again under the capable training of Capt. Moore.

Only three of the men who wrestled Friday night were letter men and two were freshmen. Two extra matches were
added, Davidson winning one when Frierson, captain and the premier wrestler of the squad, won his second match of the
night. The other one was lost on time when Margon won a time decision over Reynolds, of Davidson.

The Salisbury team showed a strong defense which was hard to break through, and also exhibited accurate shooting at times.
Both of these facts made it hard for the Wildcats to keep in the lead, and made it an exceedingly
interesting game for the spectators. The Salisbury team had several old Davidson men in its line-up. John Schneck, who was
captain of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. team last year, is a Davidson man. McAulay, Davidson forward, was high
point man of both teams with 11 points to his credit in the first half, but was guarded closely the
second half and was not able to tally. Tom Anderson was runner-up with 10 as his total number of points.

The Union Theological Seminary team, Salisbury “Y” and Wofford College will present the opposition for the Wildcat cagers in games
scheduled before exams. Little is known of the Virginia and South Carolina aggregations, but it is known that Salisbury will
give the locals plenty of opposition. Before the Christmas recess, Davidson downed Salisbury on the local court by a single
point.

Davidson (33) vs. Salisbury (31)

Davidson:
Laird (10)
McAulay (14)
Dunham (3)

Salisbury:
Wilson (6)
Brown (6)
Schnecken (2)
Robertson (5)

Substitutions: Harrison for Simpson; Kugler for Anderson. Salisbury: Meyers (5) for Dunham; Moore for Schenck.

Coach Mattoxhas been driving his yearling squad hard since the holidays. A number of promising high school stars are out
for the team and from now on it will be a merry race to see who will be finally selected
for the “first” five. Coach Mattox has cut his squad to about 15 men.

The Wildcat basketeers won an easy victory Thursday night from the Concord “Y”. As this was the first game after
the holidays, the 'Cats were late in getting started, the score at the end of the first half being 12
to 18 in Davidson's favor. Taking the lead at the beginning of the game, the Wildcats were never threatened. Starting
the second half with a rush, the 'Cats rolled up a commanding lead and Coach Younger took the regulars out
and allowed every man on the squad a chance to show his basketball ability.

EX-MAYOR McDOWELL (Continued from page 1)

Mr. McDowell also served in the State Senate, representing Mecklenburg County. Although he seemed of a quiet nature, he was
a force in politics for some time. In 1883 Mr. McDowell married Miss May King, of New Orleans. She died
six years ago. No children were born to the union. Since the death of his wife, he has resided at
the Selwyn Hotel.

The Charlotte News says of the deceased, “Mr. McDowell had been long identified with the life of the city. His
father moved here from Iredell County in the early '70s and Mr. McDowell, then a young man, took an active
interest in affairs. He was widely known and had a large number of friends in business, politics, and social life.”

Funeral services were held Saturday afternoon and interment was made in the Charlotte cemetery. Dr. A. A. McGeachy conducted the
services.

The Wildcats are pointing toward the West Point meet, undoubtedly the hardest of the season. This meet promises to be
of interest in other lights as those men representing Davidson in their respective weights Saturday night will most likely be
the ones to carry on through the remaining season. This does not at all mean that no other men will
have their chance, but it does mean that those on the mat Saturday night will have a decided advantage.

The list of the State contestants and their weights are not available at this printing; but the Davidson line-up with
weights is as follows:

Captain Frierson, 118 pounds; Flythe, 128 pounds; Hansel, 138 pounds; Estridge, 148 pounds; Alexander, 158 pounds; Crinkley, 175 pounds, and
Vance, unlimited.

The remaining schedule for the Davidson team is below:
Concord Y. M. C. A.—Here, January 21.
Army—There, February 5.
V. P. I—Here, February 10.
Duke—Here, February 13.
Carolina—Here, February 26.

Also, on the northern trip when West Point is met, another foe, either the team of East Side New York
Y. M. C. A., or that of the Baltimore Y. M. C. A., will be engaged.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

ICE CREAM
Mooresville, N. C.
Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

Drinks
Candy
Smokes

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N. C.

REV. J. RUSSELL WOODS
Professor of Christian Missions
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Lance Quality Products Delivered same day made.
LANCE PACKING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
All dealers
