THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1927

Civil War Hero Directly Connected with Davidson During Distinguished Life

Married Daughter of First President of College

TRIBUTE TO DAVIDSON

Stonewall Jackson Taught at Davidson for Three Weeks According to Tradition

Thomas Jonathan Jackson, known to readers of history as the immortal “Stonewall” Jackson, and hero of many battles in the
War Between the States, was indirectly connected with Davidson College, and if tradition is considered, he was directly connected with
the Presbyterian institution.

His indirect connection with the college was through his second marriage with Miss Mary Anna Morrison, whose father was Rev.
R. H. Morrison, D.D., first president of Davidson College, which received its inception in 1837. Mrs. Jackson published a history
of the life of her husband many years ago, and this is the source of the authentic information.

In speaking of the life of her father in its relationship to Davidson, Mrs. Jackson says that he, “Rev. Dr.
R. H. Morrison, a Presbyterian minister, had in his earlier days been a pastor in towns, and was the first
president of Davidson College, in North Carolina,” followed by the statement that Dr. Morrison had been a graduate of the
University of North Carolina in 1818 “in a class with President Polk, Bishop Green of Mississippi, and several other men
of eminence in the church and state.”

Before Mrs. Jackson wrote her history, her pastor had paid a tribute to her father and to Davidson, with questions
asked in regard to the future of the institution. Her pastor wrote, “Davidson College, of which he was founder, has
risen to eminence among the institutions of America. Its high standard commands the respect of the whole country, whilst the
moral influences which govern and surround it are unsurpassed. During the 52 years of its existence, it has given to
the church 200 ministers of the gospel! Who is able to measure its influence for good through all coming time?
And who is able to estimate the indebtedness of society, the state, and the church to its noble founder? Davidson
College is his monument, for which generations yet unborn will rise up and bless the name of Dr. Robert Hall
Morrison.”

When “Stonewall” Jackson married Miss Morrison, the latter’s father “could not trust his emotional nature enough to marry any of
his daughters,” said Mrs. Jackson in her history, and so the ceremony “was performed by a favorite old ministerial friend
of mine, Rev. Dr. Drury Lacy,” on July 16, 1857. Dr. Drury Lacy was the president of Davidson College, being
the third one to occupy this position, though Mrs. Jackson did not mention that fact in her history. Dr. Lacy
was president of Davidson from 1855 to 1860.

Dr. Drury Lacy is the father of the present state treasurer of North Carolina, and grandfather of Dr. Ben R.
Lacy, a graduate of Davidson in 1906, and now president of Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va. Mrs. Jackson’s history
reveals the fact that during the War Between the States, Dr. Drury Lacy was chaplain and was a constant companion
of her husband. This recalls the service of Dr. Ben Lacy, who served in the same capacity during the recent
World War, 56 years later. The latter's work was known to the entire American Expeditionary Force, and his valiant work
was similar in many respects to that of his grandfather.

Tradition tells us that “Stonewall” Jackson was a professor at Davidson College for three weeks, but verification of this is
lacking at the present time. The story is told that he was visiting D. H. Hill (later Gen. D. H.
Hill), who was professor of mathematics at Davidson at that time. General Hill and “Stonewall” Jackson married sisters, and it
is believed that the incident occurred during their “courting” days. While Jackson was visiting Mr. Hill, the latter is said
to have become ill. Desiring that his classes continue without interruption, he induced “Stonewall” Jackson to take his position as
professor of mathematics until his recovery. Mr. Hill's illness lasted three weeks. Since Mr. Jackson was a graduate of West
Point and later a professor at Virginia Military Institute, his preparation for the task was admirable, and this belief can
be easily comprehended. History also tells us that Mr. Jackson at one time applied for the chair of mathematics at
the University of Virginia, which certifies the fact that he was qualified.

Personal

W. Banks McClintock, '01, assistant cashier of the Charlotte National Bank, was yesterday selected as a member of the Mecklenburg
County Board of Education.

Arthur N. McCallum, '87, has been superintendent of the city schools in Austin, Texas, for 20 years. Mrs. McCallum was
appointed Secretary ofState of Texas by Gov. Dan Moody, January 11, 1927, George Miley, ’21, of Charlotte, and Lawrence Wilkinson,
'13, were on the campus last Thursday. Mr. Miley visited the office of the Alumni Secretary, Mr. Wilkinson attending a
meeting of the Athletic Council. J. P. Munroe, ’82, was elected president of the Charlotte Sanitorium at the annual meeting
of the stockholders a few days ago. Forest J. Wright, '22, was recently married to Miss Cassandra Penn, of Madison,
N.C. They are living in Winston-Salem. R. W. Woods, '28, and S. B. Woods, '25, have recently opened a branch
office of the Aetna Life Insurance Company in Charlotte. Rev. Daniel W. Roberts, ’21, will be married on Wednesday, February
16th, to Miss Alice Edgett, at the First Presbyterian Church, New Orleans, La. H. L. Shaw, '26, who is taking
graduate work and teaching at the University of South Carolina, was in Davidson several days last week. M. C. Yeargan,
'26, who is attending Columbia Theological Seminary, spent several days on the hill last week. The following Davidson students are
at the University of South Carolina: N. L. Carrol, R. W. Edgerton, W. W. Gregg, T. E. Gregg, and J.
H. Shelton.

FOOTBALL PRACTICE

More than 80 men have answered the call issued by Coach Tex Tilson for spring football practice which started on
the 31st of January. Each man is fighting hard for a place on the squad, which is soon to be
cut down to 60 men. Practice is expected to last until the end of March. This will give two months
of intensive training. For the first three weeks only the fundamentals of the game will be taken up and no
plays will be run. Later real scrimmage will start and the squad will be divided into the Reds and Blacks.
Each side will be taught a number of plays and, as heretofore, several games will be played between the Reds
and the Blacks. The men have already been divided into two big squads. Those making the best showing were placed
in “A” squad and the rest in “B” squad. Three unexcused cuts from practice automatically drop a man from the
squad. As has already been announced, no man will be eligible for the team next fall who does not turn
out for either spring practice or some other spring sport. Although some very intensive work has been done, the only
serious hurts have been sustained by Carson and Robbins. Carson had his leg broken during a practice the first part
of last week and Robbins broke his wrist. Both men will be missed from the squad. A good number of
Freshmen have turned out and “Tex” seemed rather pleased with the prospects. He stated that the squad as a whole
was showing more fight and better spirit than it has ever shown before and that the Freshmen were doing good
work.

PROMINENT PROFESSIONAL

(Continued from page 1)

and Davidson College, is scheduled for the second meeting which will be Wednesday night, February 16. As Dr. Noble is
quite well known among the students as a man well informed along the lines of his chosen profession, he will
be heard with great interest. J. M. Appleby and J. C. Barnhardt, who have charge of this work, have announced
that other men who have shown distinct prominence in their professions will speak to the remaining groups and are hoping
that those men who have not decided upon their life work will take advantage of this splendid opportunity while they
may. Immediately following the conclusion of this institute, the annual life work meetings will be held and opportunity will be
given for the statement of definite decisions. This forward step which has been taken by the “Y” is receiving much
favorable comment and students are cooperating with the movement in order to realize the greatest benefits possible. He was chosen
to be eminently suitable for the task. His preparation was good and he was capable of substituting in this capacity.
Get the natural character of fine tobaccos in your cigarette—and you get everything! Chesterfield Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

The Sorosis club will meet with Mrs. Hobbs on Friday evening.

SPRING CLOTHES

Storrs-Schaefer Co. EU HALL THURSDAY and FRIDAY FEBRUARY 23-24 MURCHISON & COVINGTON

S&W Cafeterias CHARLOTTE GREENVILLE ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

Selby Ice Cream Co. GOOD ICE CREAM. Statesville, N.C.
