8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1927

WILDCAT TRACKERS OUT-POINTED
(Continued from page 1)

Sloop (D). Time 2 minutes 11 seconds.
220 low hurdles: Gorham (S), Sims (D), Rye (D). Time 26 4-5 seconds.
440 yard dash: Sides (S), Melton (S), Pinkey (D). Time 52 seconds.
Pole vault: Bremer (S), Bailey (D), Vincent (S). Height 10 feet 6 inches.
High jump: McDowall (S), Calhoun (D), Young (S). Height 6 feet and 1 inch.
Shot put: Leftwich (D), Rush (S), Vaughn (S). Distance 38 feet 1 1-4 inches.
Javelin: Young (S), Kidd (S), Brown (D). Distance 167 feet.

Playhouse Theatre
Statesville, N. C.
Most Perfect Theatre in the Carolinas
EVERY SATURDAY
3 SHOWS 3
3:00, 5:30 and 8:00
VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY AND PICTURE SHOW PROGRAM
Happy to Entertain You

Town News
Edwin Shewmake, Jr., has been at the Presbyterian Hospital, in Charlotte, because of a severe attack of erysipelas.
Mrs. W. M. Hemler is recovering rapidly from an operation, in Statesville, and is expected home soon.
Miss Mary Hill, a missionary to China, landed at San Francisco a week ago and will spend several months with
her mother, Mrs. John Hill, at Davidson.
Miss Kitty Martin and Charlotte Hunter, of Agnes Scott College, are at home for the spring holidays.
Miss Jane Leighton Richards, of Converse College, is at home for the spring holidays.
Rev. Mr. and Mrs. Deans, of Mooresville, were in Davidson Thursday to hear Hamlin Garland.
Mrs. Mary H. Fulton is the guest of Dr. and Mrs. J. W. McConnell.
Mrs. M. G. Fulton, of Danville, Ky., was the guest of the Misses Young for the weekend.
The Music Club gave a Cantata in the High School Auditorium Tuesday night, for the benefit of the victrola fund.
The Book-Lovers’ Club was entertained by Miss Hattie Thompson, Friday afternoon. Miss Lizzie Thompson read an excellent paper on the
Irish Dramatic School.
Mrs. W. W. Lingle, of Richmond, and Miss Sarah Lingle, of the faculty of Converse College, spent last week with
Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle.
Miss Mary Hamilton, of Converse College, has been at home for the weekend.
Mrs. H. T. Hall, Mrs. Cabell Smith, and Miss Moore, of Charlotte, came to Davidson Thursday to visit friends and
to hear Hamlin Garland.

MOORESVILLE, N. C.
And where $4.00 buys ticket good for $6 worth of work
MAYHEW’S
J. T. EMBREY, Agent
BRIGGS ARRINGTON, TOM ADAMS, Assistants
PHONE 240
Every effort is made to satisfy

Davidson Theatre
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Monday and Tuesday
Madge Bellamy in “Summer Bachelors”
Wednesday and Thursday
Milton Sills in “The Sea Tiger”
Friday
Jetta Goudal in “White Gold”
Saturday
Ken Maynard in “Sonora”
Monday and Tuesday
Gilda Gay in “Cabaret”

Students Answer When Congress Declares War in World Conflict
When war was declared in April, 1917, and the call was sent out to the colleges of the country to
support the country, Davidson answered the call as did every other college in the Union.
The first men to do their part were some 80 students who left the college to help in food production
at their homes. They were soon followed by other men and between April 1, 1917, and September 1, 1918, 152
students of the college enlisted. Fifty-five of these were of the two Senior classes of the period.
In the summer of 1918 the seriousness of the situation led to the establishment of the Student’s Army Training Corps,
which was similar to the R. O. T. C. of today, except that the S. A. T. C. did not
provide any time for classes. As preparation for the establishment of this unit, during the summer of 1918, four professors
and 33 students went to Plattsburg to receive instruction that would fit them for assisting in teaching military science.
All men 18 or over who were registered on September 12, 1918, and who were physically fit and prepared for
college work, took the oath of allegiance on October 1, 1918. They thus became regular soldiers on active duty as
members of the S. A. T. C. These men were quartered in the dormitories, furnished with army cots and blankets
and were under strict discipline. The oath of allegiance was taken just south of Shearer Hall at noon. This scene,
of 223 young Americans taking the oath of fealty to their country, marked the beginning of the S. A. T.
C. and also the beginning of an epidemic of influenza that struck the college on that day.
Nearly one thousand Davidson men entered the service of their country. About five hundred and eighty alumni of the college
enlisted and over one hundred and fifty students joined the active army. In addition to the above there were two
hundred and twenty-three students in the college who were members of the S. A. T. C. There were three hundred
and sixty-six commissioned officers from the Davidson contingent, ranging from a brigadier general to one hundred and forty-four second lieutenants,
with various lower officials in the navy. Also from the teaching staff five men volunteered, of whom two were full
professors. Twenty-one men gave their lives for their country. On this roll of honor the oldest class represented is that
of 1886, and the latest that of 1919.

Engage in Varied Forms of Service

Manager of Paper to be Chosen Soon
In the next few days, the Board of Publications, composed of W. H. Branch, H. M. Austin, L. D. Wharton
and Professors Fleagle and Jackson, will meet for the purpose of selecting the business manager of The Davidsonian for the
coming year. The business manager this year is V. S. Broyles, and he and his staff have taken care of
their end of the paper admirably, having made The Davidsonian of this year the greatest financial success it has ever
been.
Although the Board of Publications meets every year to select the business manager, this year is the first time the
board will de-First time it has become necessary to decide between three men, since it has happened in the past
years that only one Junior has been eligible for the position. The aspirants for this position are as follows: M.
L. Crawford, E. L. Douglass, and Julian Lake. These men have worked hard and faithfully during the years they have
been at Davidson, and have done much for The Davidsonian in the way of securing advertisements and subscriptions. The new
business manager, after he has been appointed, will in turn appoint his staff for the coming year. These appointments will
be published in the issue of The Davidsonian which is to come out during Junior Speaking.

D.C. Debaters Meet Opponents in North

Davidson’s Varsity Debating Team is at present on its Northern trip, which includes contests with several leading schools of the
country. The team is composed of L. D. Wharton and W. H. Branch, who are foremost in all types of
literary activity on the campus, and are well known as excellent debaters and speakers. These two are making their fourth
consecutive trip together as members of the debating team, and in that time, debating together, they have lost only one
debate, that being the one with Sewanee last year. Such a record is proof of their efficiency in that line
of activity. The question that the team will debate on this trip is: “Resolved, That the United States should cancel
the Inter-Allied War Debts due her.” The Davidson men will debate the negative once, and the affirmative three times. The
schools with whom this query will be debated are as follows: William and Mary, on April 1st, at Williamsburg, Va.;
Bethlehem College, at Bethlehem, Pa., on April 5th; Gettysburg University follows on April 6th, at Gettysburg, Pa.; Rutgers University, at
New Brunswick, N. J., is the last school to be visited and will be met on April 8th. The team
is expected to arrive at Davidson on April 12th. As mentioned before, the team will uphold the negative against William
and Mary, while in all the other contests they will debate on the affirmative side of the question. While in
Washington, they will probably try to secure interviews with President Coolidge and Honorable Andrew W. Mellon, Secretary of Treasury, and
discuss the vital subject with these prominent national officials. Referring to their past record, it can reasonably be expected that
the team will be victorious in at least a majority of their debates, and such will no doubt be the
result.

The employer called his secretary. “Here, John, look at this letter. I can't make out whether it’s from my tailor
or my lawyer. They’re both named Smith.” And this is what John read: “I have begun your suit. Ready to
be tried on Thursday. Smith.”

Current Events

The Cantonese authorities have been informed that the British Cabinet has approved the demand for reparation for the outrages at
Nanking. Great Britain also demands that the perpetrators of these outrages be punished, and apologies be offered to the governments
whose consulates were attacked and looted. This demand will be announced at Washington and Tokyo in the hope that the
United States and Japan will join in the protest of such outrages. If these nations will not aid Great Britain,
she will act alone. Orders have been prepared for the dispatch of two more battalions of marines to San Diego.
There are now two regiments less two battalions either in China or on their way. These two battalions will be
held in readiness and used to supplement the forces in China if they are needed.

A windstorm which threatened to become a cyclone struck Winston-Salem and Durham last Friday, causing damage of many thousands of
dollars. Presbyterian College at Clinton, Spartanburg, Laurens, and other South Carolina cities were hit by this storm. Though no deaths
have been reported, the damages will probably amount to several hundred thousand dollars.

X-Ray pictures reveal the fact that injuries received by Henry Ford in an automobile wreck last week are not serious.
In response to his request, the billionaire manufacturer has been removed from the hospital to his home. Doctors say that
he will be confined to his bed for about two weeks. Ford states that the wreck was the result of
carelessness, and was not an attempt to murder him.

PRITCHETT AND GRADY LOSE (Continued from page 1)

were on the Freshman Team which debated against the University of North Carolina last year, Pritchett having debated at Chapel
Hill and Grady at Davidson. The selection of these two men is of special interest in that this is only
the second time in nearly ten years that a team represented Davidson both members of which were Sophomores. That these
men should make the varsity this year indicates a bright future for them in the next two years in this
field of college life.

Professional Notices

Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65
DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance
Commercial National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 6, Evenings 7 to 9, Sundays 12 to 1

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-J

CHIROPRACTOR
DR. LEE E. KISER
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Phones 609 and 706

VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Monday. Rod LaRocque in “Gigola.”
Tuesday. “Faust.” a Metro-Goldwyn picture.
Wednesday and Thursday. Clara Bow in “It.”
Friday. Corrine Griffith in “Three Hours.”
Saturday. Art Accord in “Low Luck.”

IMPERIAL
MON., TUES., WED.
MILDRED DAVIES IN “Too Many Crooks”
---COMING---
“THE DEMI BRIDE”

CAROLINA THEATRE
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
THURS. FRI., SAT.
KEITH VAUDEVILLE
And Fox Special. “WOMAN POWER”
NORMA SHEARER MONDAY---
Norma’s Peppiest Role
