THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 12, 1927

THREE DAVIDSON SCIENTISTS MADE MEMBERS OF N. C. GROUP

At the meeting of the North Carolina Academy of Science last weekend, Professors S. C. Lyon, W. N. Mebane, and J. W. Reid, Jr., were voted to become members of the Academy. Professor Lyon is an instructor in the Department of Biology at Davidson, this being his first year here. Professor Lyon came to Davidson from Tennessee where he held a high position as a biologist in the State Department, and also was an instructor at Southwestern University, of Memphis. He is also a “Who's Who In America” man. Professor Mebane is an instructor in the Department of Mathematics and Physics. J. W. Reid, Jr., a member of the Class of '28, has done notable work in the Department of Biology here.

These men were voted into the Academy at the same meeting in which Dr. Porter was elected vice president of the Academy for the coming year, and Dr. Arbuckle was elected to the executive committee. The Academy was in meeting here on Friday and Saturday, May 6 and 7. Guests were present from fourteen different colleges and a State Department. The institutions which sent representatives are: University of North Carolina, North Carolina State College, North Carolina College for Women, Duke University, Greensboro College for Women, Carson and Newman College, Mars Hill College, High Point College, Lenoir-Rhyne College, Catawba College, Guilford College, Peace Institute, Flora McDonald College, and Davidson College. Representatives were also present from the Forestry Bureau of the North Carolina State Department of Agriculture. There was a large number of delegates present and many visitors were here for the meeting.

GREENSBORO PASTOR SELECTED AS SPEAKER BY “Y” CABINET

Rev. Dwight Chalmers, pastor of the Church-by-the-Side-of-the-Road, Greensboro, has accepted the invitation of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet to deliver the annual sermon before that body on Sunday night, May 29, which will be the second event of the commencement program. Mr. Chalmers is a graduate of Davidson, and recently finished his seminary work at Richmond, Va., taking up his work in Greensboro last fall. This completes the roster of commencement speakers, Dr. W. J. Martin announcing recently that Judge W. P. Stacey, chief justice of the supreme court of North Carolina, had been secured for the literary address, and Rev. J. L. McMillan, D. D., of Norfolk, for the baccalaureate sermon.

INSPIRING MOTHER’S DAY (Continued from page 1)

Self-sacrifice is a very striking characteristic of all true mothers everywhere in all times. Moses’ mother then did not and our mothers now do not complain overbearing burdens but rather rejoice in them. To be worthy of this attitude modern youth must change from its selfishness and cease asphyxiating mothers from lack of appreciation. Courage and pluck are other qualities found in the mothers of the human race. Going into the valley of the shadow requires more courage than that exhibited on any gridiron or battlefield. The speaker here paid his respects to the flapper type of mother who is today crowding the divorce courts. Such women should be allowed to rear nothing but cats and dogs, for the worthwhile qualities of womanhood are lacking in them. As a final tribute, the speaker declared that mothers have more influence in the world than any other factor. The mothers of tomorrow must be protected and safeguarded today if the future happiness and well-being of the race is to be insured.

FORENSIC OFFICIALS (Continued from page 1)

Contrary to the method used this year in selecting the debates for each debate by having try-outs just before the debate, next year the majority of the preliminaries will be held before the Christmas holidays. The debating “season” next year will probably last from the first of March until the 15th of April.

Lady—“Are you the great animal painter?”
Artist—“Yes, did you wish to sit for a portrait?”

Reporters Choose Bailey for Leader

At a meeting of the Reporters Club, held after the initiation last Tuesday night, the officers of the club for the coming year were elected. They were as follows: president, William H. Bailey; vice-president, John L. Ely; secretary and treasurer, Reid Graham. They are all members of the rising Junior Class. The retiring officers of the club are: T. T. Jones, president; A. N. Brown, vice-president, and C. R. Lake, secretary and treasurer. These men have worked long and faithfully, and have done much toward making the Reporters Club.of this year the best in the history of the club. Bill Bailey, the new president, is a member of the track team, vice-president of the rising Junior Class, and is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He was also a member of the freshman track team of last year. John Ely is the contributing editor of the annual, and a member of the “D” Club, having won his letter on the cross country team last fall. He is a member of Delta Theta Chi social fraternity. Reid Graham was a member of the track team this year, but was forced to stop this work due to orders from his doctor. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon honorary fraternity, and is also a member of the International Relations Club.

TRABUE AND BRADFORD TO EDGEWOOD ARSENAL

C. C. Trabue and W. B. Bradford have been signally honored by the War Department, when announcement was received here that they were among 50 men selected in the entire United States to attend a six weeks’ training camp in chemical warfare at Edgewood Arsenal, Edgewood, Md. Over 350 institutions in this country have military units, the men being chosen by virtue of their proficiency in the chemistry departments of their respective schools. All of the Davidson men who attend camp in the summer are required to spend the time at Camp McClellan, otherwise designated, Anniston, Ala.

“If the police had a mind to enforce the law they could close every illegitimate drinking place in the land in fifteen minutes.”—Andrew W. Volstead.

When opened recently a 3,000-year-old jar of perfume found in an Egyptian tomb still retained its fragrance.

If an Englishwoman wears flannel, she is a lawbreaker, ancient laws regulating wearing apparel having never been repealed. Under a decree of Henry VIII, wives who disobey their husbands may be whipped.

An amateur gardener declares that his plants draw energy from his radio aerial. Cucumbers and tomatoes, particularly, he says, are susceptible, growing to enormous size.

One American boy in every ten between the ages of twelve and eighteen is listed as a Boy Scout.

IN ANY group of regular fellows, you'll find Prince Albert. It belongs. It speaks the language. You get what we mean the minute you tamp a load of this wonderful tobacco into the bowl of your jimmy-pipe and make fire with a match. Cool as a northeast bedroom. Fragrant as a woodland trail, Prince Albert never bites your tongue or parches your throat, no matter how fast you feed it. You'll smoke pipe-load on pipe-load with never a regret. Buy a tidy red tin of P. A. today. Throw back the hinged lid and breathe deeply of that real tobacco aroma. Now you have it... that taste! That’s Prince Albert, Fellows! PRINCE ALBERT — no other tobacco is like it! Sweet as a note from the Girl of Girls.

FOR THAT TASTE OF Home Cooking On Your Way Home

NEW YORK CAFE
29 West Trade St., CHARLOTTE, N.C.

It’s Linen Season at Belk’s

Just in, new linen suits, tailored by Schloss Bros., and other standard tailors, $14.95 to $19.95. LINEN KNICKERS $1.95, $2.95 to $4.95. If you want a tailor-made suit, drop down to Charlotte Wednesday, May 18th, in line from Baltimore will be on display.

BELK BROS. CO.
CHARLOTTE
“WHERE COLLEGE MEN TRADE”

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Founded 1847

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs. 4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Government. Make us your Executor. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

Lance Quality Products
All dealers
Delivered same day made.
LANCE PACKING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.