Re Do oa Fae THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1927

Davidson Alumni Take Lead at Medical Meet
Dr. Robert H. Crawford Elected President of Seventh District Society

Davidson alumni played a leading part in the recent annual meeting of the Seventh District Medical Society, held in Rutherfordton, N. C., according to press dispatches appearing in a number of North Carolina papers. Dr. Robert H. Crawford, '10, of the Rutherford hospital staff was elected president of the society at its concluding session on Thursday evening, October 21st, to succeed Dr. E. B. Lattimore, who attended Medical College at Davidson in '98. Dr. J. T. Burrus, 1900, of High Point, president of the North Carolina Medical Society was one of the principal speakers at the meeting in Rutherfordton. Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ’08, Dr. Jas. W. Gibbon, ’14, and Dr. Thomas B. Mitchell, ’20, all of Charlotte, N. C., read papers before the society at its meeting. More than 125 physicians attended.

To pay the penalty for not observing the freshman rules made by an upper-class committee, coed members of the first-year class at Cincinnati were ordered to wash and polish the automobile owned by one of the members of the council. Another coed, who violated the no-date rule at an athletic contest, was required to deliver a speech on "Why I preferred my date to sitting in the freshmen-rooting section."

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Rev. Clarence N. Morrison, '21, pastor of the Springwood and Bethel Presbyterian Churches near Whitsett, N. C., was married Thursday, September 20th, to Miss Ave Merie Clapp, youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Clapp, at the residence of the bride’s parents in Whitsett. The ceremony was performed by Rev. Charles E. Hiatt, of the Brick Reformed Church, assisted by Rev. H. A. Fesperman, of the First Reformed Church of Greensboro. The couple left immediately after the ceremony for a wedding trip to Asheville, returning to make their home in the church manse at Whitsett.

John W. Simpson, Jr., ’24, was married to Miss Jennie Adams at the First Presbyterian Church, of Greensboro, on Saturday, October 8th, with Dr. Charles F. Myers, pastor of the Church, officiating. Charles McCrary, ’24, Robert Mitchell, '27, Watt McCain, ’24, and Talley Elliott, ’23, were groomsmen. George Dupuy, ‘24, acted as best man. Mr. and Mrs. Simpson left after a brief reception for a motor trip through the north, and will be at home at 101 West Fisher Avenue, Greensboro.

John M. Selser, ’25, was married to Miss Lois Moncrief, of Moultrie, Ga., during the summer months, and they are now living at the home of Mrs. J. W. Belvin, in Moultrie. The marriage ceremony was performed by Rev. Neese in the Nashville, Ga. Methodist parsonage. Mr. Selser is associated with the office force of the Georgia Northern Railway Company with headquarters at Moultrie.

TOP COAT TIME

These frosty days call for a top coat, especially mornings and evenings. Rest assured that each and every garment we have to offer represents the utmost in value whether it is a $30 or a $65 Coat.
Tate-Brown Co.

Parker-Gardner Co.
Furniture, Rugs, Draperies and Interior Decorations
Also Steinway, Ivers & Pond, Geo. Steck, Brambach, and Duo-Art Reproducing Pianos
Orthophonic Victrolas and Victor Records
Brunswick Panatropes and Brunswick Records

Alumni Council Gathers to Draft Plans for Big Home-Coming Celebration
Council Holds First Meeting of Year to Review Work of Alumni Office

OTHER MATTERS
Alumni Secretary to Direct Entertainment of Old Grads

Members of the alumni council, governing board of the Davidson College alumni association, met here Friday evening to consider the progress of alumni work and to formulate plans for the future, with Dr. J. P. Matheson, of Charlotte, president of the Davidson alumni association and member of the alumni council, presiding. Plans were perfected for the Homecoming Day celebration for alumni, which has been set for October 29th. Classes will be suspended on that day while students and alumni unite in celebrating the founding of the college, and the return of old graduates to the campus. The proposed celebration, which will be featured by a military review, special exercises at the stadium, and a luncheon for alumni in the college gymnasium, will directly precede the Davidson-V. M. I. football game which is scheduled for the same date. It is planned to have the alumni march to the field for the game in a body, arranged according to classes. A stunt night performance, in which every class and student organization will participate, has been arranged as the closing number on the day’s program. It is generally believed that a large number of alumni from all sections of the southeast will return to Davidson to take part in the Homecoming celebration. Advance seat sale for the Davidson-V. M. I. football game indicates that many former graduates of the college are already making arrangements to be on hand for the exercises.

Personal
Dr. C. C. Orr, ’95, was chosen recently by Governor McLean to succeed Dr. J. H.Way, deceased, as a member of the North Carolina State Board of Health. Dr. Orr is widely known throughout the State and is prominent in the medical profession, having been elected and having served as president of the Buncombe County Medical Society during the year 1925. Lawrence Beall, ex-'27, is now a student in the Richmond Medical College, at Richmond, Va., having entered medical college following his graduation from Duke University. Rev. John McSween, '08, recently preached the initial sermon at the ninth anniversary celebration of the First Presbyterian Church of Anderson, S.C. Mr. McSween is pastor of the Church. W. A. Hafner, '94, of Gaffney, S.C., was elected moderator of the South Carolina Presbyterian at its recent meeting in Sumter, S.C. Dr. D. W. Richardson, ’02, of Nanking, China, was nominated for the same office, and at a later meeting of the Synod delivered a vivid lecture on conditions in China. Rev. H. A. Knox, '03, of Liberty, S.C., Rev. Synod. Other matters discussed at the meeting of the council Friday evening related to the organization of local alumni associations, the assessment and collection of alumni dues, and the proper basis for alumni coordination. Members of the council include: Dr. J. P. Matheson, of Charlotte; Dr. J. C. Rowan, of Concord; Dr. Oren Moore, of Charlotte; F. L. Jackson, of Davidson; and Hugh A. Query, of Gastonia. Ernest Milton, secretary, and Harllee Branch, Jr., assistant secretary, are ex-officio members of the body.

Fifty Davidson Men at Theological Seminaries
Union Leads Seminaries With Thirty-Three Davidson Alumni Enrolled This Year

Forty-one graduates of Davidson College are enrolled as students at Union and Louisville Theological Seminaries, preparing for the Presbyterian ministry. A former list from the Columbia Theological Seminary showed that nine other Davidson men were studying there, which gives Davidson fifty ministerial students in southern theological seminaries.

Union Seminary
The list of students attending Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., in the order of their graduation from Davidson, includes: Class of '12: John W. Foster; Class of '21: Heath P. Taylor, Jr.; Class of '22: R. Bitzer, Marshall W. Doggett, Jr., J. F. Clark, and E. B. McGukin; Class of '23: M. P. Calhoun, W. Hiram Sharp, Frank S. Johnston; Class of '24: D. B. Walthall, Jr.; Class of '25: H. D. Brown, Jr., Simril F. Bryant, James M. Carr, P. B. Freeland, Frederick A. Hopkins, Archie C. Ray, Jr., Willard G. Thomas, Wm. M. Gracey, Jr., and T. A. Guiton; Class of '27: Ira E. Hagar, M. G. Lyerly, W. A. Christian, J. W. Crinkley, L. M. McCutcheon, R. B. McQueen, G. R. Sims, Ronald S. Wilson, Eugene D. Witherspoon, and W. I. Howell. Samuel Hugh Bradley, '23, holds the Larus Fellowship at Union Theological Seminary.

Louisville Seminary
The Davidson men who are now at Louisville Seminary include: Rev. Thornton Whaling, D.D., member of the faculty; C. V. Brown, Jr., '24, J. T. Gillespie, '16, A. M. Martin, '25, A. N. Moffett, '25, E. K. Regen, '26, D. H. Stewart, '27, A. C. Wildman, '24; and Harry Alexander, ex-'25.

McALISTER CARSON (Mgr.)
Foremost in the minds of University men right now - - An Overcoat
Foremost in the minds of University men always -- A Braeburn Overcoat
Sold exclusively in Charlotte by MELL

Breakage, theft, accidents, robbery—you can be protected fully by a Blanket Residence Policy. This policy covers all the ordinary and unusual risks, giving you complete and absolute protection at one stroke. Investigate Now.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

You can get more than one thing at a time. Instead of separate policies for burglary, damage to your property, or holdups, you can be protected fully by a Blanket Residence Policy.

M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26) was unanimously chosen assistant clerk of the Synod. Mrs. Sallie Holt Boyd, wife of Judge James E. Boyd, '66, died after a brief illness at her home on West Washington Street, in Greensboro. Kelly V. Woodham, '27, and William O. Green, '27, were recently declared honor graduates of one of the distinguished colleges by the U.S. War Department. An honor graduate, according to the War Department, is one whose attainments in scholarship have been so marked as to receive the approbation of the head of the college, and whose proficiency in military training has merited the approbation of the professor of military science and tactics. He is, as a consequence, eligible for commission as a second lieutenant in the regular army as soon as a vacancy exists.

Dr. Robert E. Abell, '08, was the principal speaker at the recent monthly meeting of the York, S.C., Business Men’s Association. Dr. R. L. Carr, of Rose Hill, N.C., was a recent visitor to the campus. Dr. Carr was a delegate to Synod in Concord and came to the campus from there to visit his son.

FELLOWS! You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the best price at DAVIDSON, N.C.