THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 13, 1927

Cop (to man blocking traffic) — “How are you getting along, sir?”
Man blocking traffic — “Ah, I’m all right but my engine’s dead.”

Suggested Sign for Classrooms
Seniors will please park derbies on outside. We have racial prejudices.

Dick Flynn (upon meeting Wolfe for the first time) — "Well, you can just prepare to die for I’ve always
said that if I ever met a person uglier than I am I'd kill him.”
Wolfe (Scrutinizing Flynn) — “All right, shoot—I want to die.”

On Ethical Problems
Most fatherly kisses are given by men who are not fathers.

Guthrie — “Why do you say that thirteen is your unlucky number?”
Riggs McConnell — “Well, I went up before twelve jurors and a judge once.”

Don't worry if your job is small
And your rewards are few;
Remember that the mighty oak
Was once a nut like you.

The Biology Professor had taken his class on a stroll to observe nature. After lunch he announced to the class
that he would give an illustrated lecture on the anatomy of the frog. He thereupon began to feel in his
pocket for the frog and finally a sandwich wrapped in tissue paper fell to the ground. “Well, well,” said the
Professor, “I could have sworn that I ate my lunch with the rest of you.”

Prattle down the street and she told me fresh news.

Sign for Country Churches
“Crying room found in basement.”

The very latest addition to music is a beautiful explosive piece of jazz entitled “All the World Is Mine,” by
The Standard Oil Company.

His under lip stuck far, far out,
But gee, he didn’t care,
'Cause every time he whistled he
Could part his bloomin’ hair.

Second Doctor to negro patient — “Did the other doctor take your temperature?”
Negro Patient — “Ah know Ah ain't missed nothin’ yet 'cept watch and mah pocket book.”

Our Definitions
A specialist is a man who knows more and more about less and less.
A dilettante is a man who knows less and less about more and more.

“Yes,” said the lecturer, “I'm glad to see that the dime novel is gone, and the youth of our land
will have to read higher-priced literature.”
“It’s gone, all right,” sneered farmer Jones, “It’s gone up to a dollar and a half.”

And Talk of Secrets
Mrs. McGossip — “I just met Mrs. Rumor and she told me that you told her the news that I
told you not to tell because Mrs. Rumor made me promise not to tell before she would tell it to
me.”

IN ANY group of regular fellows, you'll find Prince Albert. It belongs. It speaks the language. You get what we
mean the minute you tamp a load of this wonderful tobacco into the bowl of your jimmy-pipe and make fire
with a match. Cool as a northeast bedroom. Sweet note from the Girl of Girls. Fragrant as a woodland trail.
Prince Albert never bites your tongue or parches your throat, no matter how fast you feed it. You'll smoke pipe-load
on pipe-load with never a regret. Buy a tidy red tin of P. A. today. Throw back the hinged lid
and breathe deeply of that real tobacco aroma. Then...

And now we hope it won’t be long until some good philanthropist comes along and donates a hall tree to
each classroom.

Law — “What did you do during Christmas?”
Vaughn — “Went to the menagerie.”
Law — “What did you see?”
Vaughn — “Blind tigers, white mules, blind pigs, and then I saw green elephants.”

Not all dumb students wear fresh caps — some of them wear derbies.

She — “Father...”
Did you promise to buy me a Rolls Royce if I wouldn’t kiss Jim before we are married?”

Mrs. Wimple—“Why, Mrs. Prattle told me that she wouldn’t tell a soul that I told her.”

Mrs. McGossip—“Never mind, I told her I wouldn’t tell you she had told me you told her.”

Henry—“I play baseball with my girl every Sunday night.”

Gallant—“How’s that?”

“When the clock strikes three she tries to put me out. If she doesn’t succeed I wait for four bells
and then I take a walk.”

Wad into the business-end of your jimmy-pipe and light up. Now you have it... that taste! That’s Prince Albert, Fellows!
PRINCE ALBERT—no other tobacco is like it! 1927, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N.C. P.A. is sold everywhere in
tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit
of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.

“It won’t be long now,” said Snort Harrall as he shaved off his mustache.

Lesson in Etiquette: Don’t blow your coffee when too hot to drink. Just whistle a casual tune over your coffee
and it will cool without being noticed.

Father—“Yes, my dear. I have already reserved one from the dealers.”

She—“But father, won’t you buy me a Chevrolet instead?”

There’s many a sip from hip to hip.

To the movie world of Charlotte and surrounding towns is presented once again:

Wildcat Cafe
THE BEST PLACE AND FOOD
GIVE US A TRIAL
15 E. Trade St.

Before dismissing our Drummer Boy Harold Lloyd. This announcement is all that is necessary to pack the house for the
entire length of the engagement. It is heralded as his best and for those that have seen him in several
of his past efforts, it will have to be even better than good. The picture will be at the Imperial
for the 17th, thus giving all that so desire the opportunity of sitting under this great master of comedy and
of going through with him all the stunts and escapades that are incorporated in this master comedy of the year,
an unparalleled opportunity to enjoy enough laughs to tide them over until Lloyd again breaks forth within the space of
another year.

Hermit Alexander—“Do they have many wrecks where you live?”

Goodykoontz—“Gosh, yeah. There’s only one car in town that hasn’t been wrecked, and they keep it on exhibition at the
antique shop.”

Joke Editor—“Have you heard my last Scotch joke?”

Jones—“I certainly hope so.”

FELLOWS! You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N.C.

When You Need Candy
See Us
26-28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

For things electrical necessary to your fraternity home in your efforts to make it more modern:
Stevens Electric Co.

CREDENZA, $300.00
THE SHOP FOR MEN
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Campus Representative, R.B. MCQUEEN

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS
Selz Shoes, Adler Collegian Clothes
Complete line of High-Grade Haberdashery
