Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 13, 1927 No. 5

Davidson Wins Over Methodist Terriers for Third Straight Victory
Offensive of Both Teams Strong—Defensive Weak
WIN 12-2
Muddy Field Does Not Check Speed of Grey, Nesbit, and Harrison

The Davidson College Wildcats booked one more game on the right side of the ledger when they defeated the Wofford Terriers on Snyder Field, in Spartanburg, by a 12-2 score, Saturday afternoon. The outcome of the game was largely due to the ability of three Davidson backs to shake off enough mud to sprint their way to the two touchdowns. These men that showed unusual speed were Captain Grey, Harrison, and Nesbit. Between splashes of mud and water when the field became visible, strange things were witnessed by four thousand drenched spectators as the ball changed hands very often due to fumbles. This suspense furnished great interest, as there were many times when a score by Wofford looked almost certain and many other times when the Wildcats would go within scoring distance of the goal, only to have breaks change the style of play. The outcome of the game was never sure until the whistle brought the fracas to a close. The adverse weather conditions caused the game to be rather slow and draggy, but under such conditions, there were many spurts by both teams that could be classed as sensational. After the kickoff, the Davidson team started a drive toward the Terrier goal that fell short as the latter stiffened their defense. Wofford took the ball and got away to some good gains only to lose the ball on a fumble which Davidson recovered on Wofford’s 35-yard line. After three plays had netted 10 yards, Dick Grey executed his best performance of the season when he went around left end for the remaining 25 yards and touchdown. The kick for extra point was wide.

(Continued on page 8)

Harper Scholarship Cup Awarded Betas

The Harper Interfraternity Scholarship cup for 1926-27 has been awarded to the Phi Alpha chapter of Beta Theta Pi. This honor was bestowed upon Beta Theta Pi following an announcement from the registrar’s office that its members had the highest composite average during the past year of the national fraternities having chapters at Davidson. The competition was very keen as the Beta Theta Pi scholastic average was only one-tenth of a point above that of Kappa Alpha, the average of Beta Theta being 86.32 and that of Kappa Alpha being 86.22. Other fraternities finished in the following order: Pi Kappa Alpha, 85.98; Theta Upsilon Omega, 85.60; Phi Gamma Delta, 85.34; Kappa Sigma, 84.31; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 83.85; and Pi Kappa, 82.82. Only national fraternities are included in this list as competition is limited to these groups. The Harper Interfraternity cup was given in 1923 by Mr. James C. Harper, of Lenoir, N. C., in memory of his father and grandfather. The basis of the award is that it shall be given each year to that national fraternity at Davidson whose members achieve the highest scholastic proficiency, and it is to become the permanent possession of the fraternity winning it three times. The Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity won it in 1924, the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity in 1925, and the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity in 1926. Thus far no fraternity has won the cup more than once, so that the competition continues as strong as ever.

The War Dept. Honors Davidson Officers

In a War Department bulletin just received at Fourth Corps Area, 35 men from the distinguished colleges and schools of the corps area were named as honor graduates. These young men were designated as having excelled in military training and their scholastic standing. Davidson College was represented on this list of honor graduates by Kelly Woodham, captain, adjutant of the battalion, and William Green, captain of “C” Company, for the scholastic year of 1926-1927. For the entire United States, but 155 honor graduates were designated. Based only on population, the proportion of the Fourth Corps Area would have been but 17. With the largest number of R. O. T. C. units, and the greatest enrollment therein, of any corps area, Davidson’s representation is significant.

(Continued on page 6)

N. C. Press Association to Convene This Month

Editors of All Publications in Conclave at Raleigh from October 27th to 29th

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will hold its first semi-annual meeting of the year on October 27, 28, and 29, in Raleigh, with N. C. State and Meredith as host and hostess. This is the fourteenth semi-annual meeting that this highly active association has held since its organization. Each publication which is a member is expected to be represented by two men, three going if necessary. The Davidsonian, the Quips and Cranks, and the Chameleon, are all members of the association. The social side of the meeting is emphasized together with the business and instructive sides. State and Meredith plan to entertain the representatives in a royal manner; buffets, banquets, sight-seeing tours, and addresses and lectures being planned. Incidentally, it is also the weekend of the Carolina-State football game. The present officers of the association are Hanselle L. Hester, Duke University, president; David Carroll, University of North Carolina, 1st vice-president; Ann Fayssoux Johnson, Queens, 2nd vice-president; Frances G. Gibson, N. C. C. W., secretary; A. L. Aydlett, State, treasurer. Hester won the presidency in a close race with Boyce Martin, editor of The Davidsonian. These officers were elected at the meeting held at N. C. C. W. last spring. At the spring meeting, it was decided to send the Winston-Salem Journal a copy of each paper of the association each week and at the end of the year this daily will judge the best college paper of the state. Last year the Chronicle, of Duke, was adjudged best.

(Continued on page 8)

From left to right: O'Neal and J. L. Robinson
Garrison, Arbuckle, Robinson, O’Neal, and Hancock Bid COVETED HONOR
Martin, Arrowood, McRae, Nesbit, Grey, Withers, and Lingle Already Student Members

With an impressive ceremony marked by dignity and solemnity, the Delta Circle of the Omicron Delta Kappa “tapped” five leading members of the Senior class on “Tap Day,” Wednesday morning. The chapel period was turned over to the nationally famous leadership fraternity for this purpose. The five men thus honored were: H. B. Arbuckle, J. L. Robinson, P. J. Garrison, M. C. O'Neal, and D. W. Hancock. All five of the honored men are conspicuous and eminent in collegiate activities, each one having taken an outstanding role in one or more lines of campus endeavor. Along with the other members of the Senior class who were initiated into the order of Omicron Delta Kappa last spring, they compose the prominent men on the local campus. H. B. Arbuckle, of Davidson, is a conspicuous leader on the campus. He is major of the Davidson R. O. T. C. battalion and a member of Scabbard and Blade. Since his entrance into college, he has been on the honor roll; last year making the highest average in college. In social activities, he is veryOutstanding, being president of the Pan-Hellenic Council and a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity. He was on the Freshman football team and has played class basketball for three years. His popularity is shown by his elections to the “Y” cabinet, the presidency of the Eumenean Literary Society, and, in addition, several honorary fraternities.

D. W. Hancock, of Bluefield, W. Va., is editor-in-chief of the college annual, the Quips and Cranks, on which staff he has been employed since his entrance here. Besides his outstanding achievement on the annual, he was class historian and has worked on the Sanity Rare and Davidsonian staffs. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and the International Relations Club and Delta Pi Kappa honorary fraternities.

M. C. O'Neal, of Montgomery, Ala., has (Continued on page 8)

ANNUAL PICTURES
All students who have failed to meet their appointments with the annual photographer are requested either to go to the annual office to have their pictures taken or to hand in their names to Bob Platt, at 204 Watts. The photographer will be here for only a few days longer. All boys who have failed to fill in the schedules of their vacant periods are requested to do so at once.

Omicron Delta Kappa Taps Five Prominent Men in Dignified and Impressive Ceremony Wednesday
H. B. Arbuckle, P. J. Garrison, D. W. Hancock, M. C. O'Neal

Two Alumni Make College Anthology
Due to the efforts of R. F. Jones and H. L. Shelby, two members of the class of '27, Davidson College now has an anthology of the best writers that have appeared in her publications since the early history of magazine work here. Jones and Shelby have gone through the files of the Annual, Davidsonian, and Magazine, especially the Magazine, starting with those dating back as far as the eighties, and have made a collection of those poems and prose works which they considered to be of literary merit, and have assembled them into a complete collection of Davidson's best literary accomplishments. The finished manuscript has been turned over to Professor Irwin, who is hoping, under the auspices of Sigma Upsilon or Blue Pencil Club, to see it (Continued on page 7)

O. Max Gardner Speaks at “Y” Vesper Service
Prominent State Lawyer Lauds Davidson College Spirit and Denominational Schools in State

O. Max Gardner, prominent lawyer of Shelby, N.C., and probable candidate for governor, lauded the typical Presbyterian college spirit in his address at “Y” vespers in Shearer Hall last Sunday evening. He made an urgent plea for the support of denominational schools. Mr. Gardner took as the subject of his talk, “A Wise and Understanding Heart.” He showed that the college was founded by men of wise and understanding hearts and men who feared God. He praised this college for having kept that strain pure and unpolluted, thus giving us as fine a spirit and as clean a campus atmosphere as any school of higher learning on the globe. He stated that this was the reason for the fact that a diligent and sincere effort was made here to teach and train young men to incarnate in their lives the principles of the prayer of Solomon when he asked God to give him a “wise and understanding heart,” that he might discern between good and evil. When a man can discern between good and evil, he has learned the analysis of human character. He continued, “This college was planted by good men on favorable ground, and its roots have gone deep into the subsoil of our Christian civilization. They have been watered by the sacrifice and fertilized by the prayers of those devout men and women who have feared God, kept His commandments, and loved His children.” Although Mr. Gardner himself was educated at institutions supported by the state, he declared that he was convinced that the (Continued on page 6)

Honorary Frats Choose Thirty-two Juniors and Seniors to Membership
One Local and Six National Fraternities Elect Neophytes
SEVEN FRATS BID

Invitations to Write Essays Extended to Fifteen Students by International Relations Club

Honorary fraternity interests were revived on the campus Wednesday morning when 32 men were bid by seven fraternities and invitations were extended to 15 more to present discussions from which five will be chosen. All honorary organizations united in issuing the bids with the exception of the Biology Club, which was granted permission by the Honorary Fraternity Council to withhold issuance of bids until a later date. Six bidding fraternities are national, while the remaining two exist only on the local campus. These organizations, covering the fields of forensics, literary, military, journalism, philosophy, chemistry, physics, and international relations, failed to bid as many men as have been bid on previous occasions, but this is probably due to the fact that an exceedingly large number was received last spring, according to a statement by a member of the Honorary Fraternity Council. The Senior class contains a great majority of those who were bid, there being 19 taken from its ranks while Juniors claimed 13 of the bids extended. This does not include the number selected by the International Relations Club to present papers, the five best to be selected, which includes nine Seniors and six Juniors. Each organization consists of those men both among the student body and the faculty who are particularly interested along the lines of its endeavor and extends invitations at a time designated by the Honorary Fraternity Council in the fall and again in the spring. The present season marks the fourth united extending of invitations under the direction of the Council which usually occurs on the (Continued on page 2)

Club to be Formed to Advance Reading
At a recent meeting of Sigma Upsilon, honorary English fraternity, plans were discussed for the formation of a club consisting of students for the purpose of getting recent literature. It was pointed out that the students belonging to the club would have an opportunity to get the latest books, and that at present there is no opportunity for the students to get the latest fiction except in Charlotte. The idea as outlined is very similar to the Book-of-the-Month Club. The purpose is to form a club of from 20 to 25 men, these men to be assessed two dollars to pay for the books. This would provide for a sum large enough to purchase around 30 books during the year. It was proposed to purchase perhaps a dozen books to start with, which would be circulated among the club members and as the year progressed new works of literature would be added. The club will not be restricted to members of Sigma Upsilon, but will be open to any member of the student body having an interest in recent literature. The books are to be selected by a committee composed of faculty members and some members of the student body elected by the club to serve on the committee. The books for consideration are to be chosen from the most recent reviews and publishers’ notices. They will be chosen from all different types of literature, fiction, biographies, and literature of thought. According to Professor Cumming, the main purpose of the club will be to supplement (Continued on page 2)