THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1927

The next vocation that will be taken up in the Vocational Guidance Institute will be that of the Ministry. This most important life-work will be ably handled by one of the leading preachers of God’s Word, and will be explained so as to put the situation clearly before those who have already decided to enter this phase of work and will also help those who are as yet undecided.

Professional Notices

Phones: Office, 588-- Residence, 653
DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance
Commercial National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays 12 to 2

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-J

DR. G. A. LAZENBY
DENTIST
Statesville, N. C.
Phone 494

VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE
WEEK---MARCH 7-12
Monday, 7---“Upstream,” a Fox picture.
Tuesday, 8---Marie Prevost in “For Wives Only.”
Wednesday, 9---“New York” with Ricardo Cortez.
Thursday, 10 and Friday, 11---Reginald Denny in “Take It From Me.”
Saturday, 12---Wallace McDonald in “The Valley of Hell.”

NEW! LeBow Suits for College Men, $40.00
Just arrived---the smartest suits of the spring season, especially designed for college men, including blues, tans and grays, correctly tailored of quality fabrics.
MEN’S SECTION

Town News

The As-You-Like-It-Club met with Mrs. Arbuckle on last Friday evening. An interesting program was furnished by Mrs. Roy Caldwell, Mrs. Watkins, and Mrs. Vowles. The themes discussed were: “The Life of James McNeill Whistler,” “Tahan,” and “Indian Music.”

The Sorosis Club was entertained by Mrs. G. B. Henderson at its Friday evening meeting.

The Thelemite Club met at Dr. J. L. Douglas’s home on Friday evening. Professor Currie had charge of the program and he read a very interesting paper on “Russia Under the Czars.”

Mr. Charles Foreman and two daughters have returned to their home after a visit to Mr. Foreman’s brother, Professor K. J. Foreman.

The Civic Club recently received a gift of fifty dollars worth of shrubbery from the J. Van Lindley Nurseries, with which to beautify their new club house. The Hickory Nurseries have promised a like amount. Mr. Hobart, the College superintendent of grounds, supervised the planting of the shrubbery. Several other gifts are to be delivered to the club from firms in Charlotte and Mooresville. The ladies are using these gifts to make their club house very cozy and attractive.

The Senior Christian Endeavor Society of the Church held a social last Friday evening. The guests enjoyed a very entertaining program, after which delicious refreshments were served.

Mrs. Wooten was hostess to some friends at a delightful dinner party at the Vance Hotel, in Statesville, on last Thursday evening. The party consisted of Mrs. White, Mrs. Withers, Mrs. Arbuckle, and the hostess.

Mrs. W. C. Wright and daughter and Mrs. Cabell Smith and daughter of Winston-Salem and Virginia respectively, spent the weekend with Mrs. N. T. Smith. Mrs. N. T. Smith and guest, Mrs. W. C. Wright, and Professor Davis attended the Schuman-Heinck concert in Charlotte last week.

Mr. and Mrs. Claude Allen and guests

STREET FLOOR

fall; time, fifty-two seconds.

Kittens Defeat Strong Barium Springs Matmen

Y” Notes

Just remember this—Dr. Gammon will be here in about a month now to hold a series of services. These services are to begin on the first Sunday in April and are to continue for four days. The “Y” hopes that every Davidson man will remember Dr. Gammon in his prayers.

Have you read “Life Principles?” If not, don’t delay the reading of this great book. The “Y” has secured ten copies of it and expects to distribute them through the dormitories. Drop into the “Y” reading room and look over the great number of good books that are down there on sale. It will really be worth your while.

Work in the Mill Chapel is steadily progressing, the congregation doubled itself in three meetings. Dewitt Helm is in charge of the work at the Chapel and is being ably assisted by several other members of the student body.

Why not start the day off right by attending a morning watch service? It will only takeabout five minutes and you will, were as follows:

118 Pound Class: Donaldson, of Barium Springs lost to Kilgore of Davidson; time, six minutes, one second.

135 Pound Class: Lee, Barium Springs lost to Reynolds of Davidson; time, six minutes, thirty-one seconds.

135 Pound Class: Potter, of Barium Springs lost to Russell, of Davidson by a fall; time, two minutes, twelve seconds.

138 Pound Class: Brown, of Barium Springs lost to Brown, of Davidson, by a fall.

Davidson men are doing a great work in Cornelius and the neighboring villages, by holding meetings and finding odd jobs to keep the boys of these towns busy.

The Fellowship of Prayer—a wonderful bond that joins Christians of all lands. Do we have a voice in this union by virtue of being participants in that close walk with God?

Get a line on your future by attending the next lecture given by the Vocational Guidance Institute. You'll find it worthwhile.

Men like style. That’s why Walk-Over has produced the Yea-Boi! It’s a Spring model for men who keep up with the newest styles. Clever pattern and corking color. See it now at I. WATTS.

145 Pound Class: Jackins, of Barium Springs won over Gaines, of Davidson, by a fall; time, six minutes, thirteen seconds.

145 Pound Class: Estridge, of Barium Springs won over Russell, of Davidson; time, two minutes, four seconds.

155 Pound Class: Brack, of Barium Springs won over Brohard, of Davidson; time, one minute, nine seconds.

MINISTERIAL BAND

Dr. Moffett, of Vine Street Presbyterian Church, of Birmingham, Ala., addressed the Ministerial Band last Sunday afternoon. Many Presbyterian ministers as well as those of other denominations, have failed miserably, he said, in their chosen field of ministry through not having the fire of faith in Christ, and the conviction of His power and all-healing love, burning in them. Others have conviction but they haven’t the knowledge which is so vital to the successful minister. That is, in itself, a sufficient answer to those who ask if we should go to college since they no longer have the opportunities of learning that they used to have. The man who wills to get good out of college, can learn, and the man who succeeds in after life to any degree will take some advantage of the opportunities around him.

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs. 4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Government. Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

Dr. Lingle filled the pulpit at Mallard Creek Church on last Sunday.

Mrs. Watts, who is at her mother’s side in Middleboro, Mass., writes that she will remain there indefinitely.

Professor Fulcher’s new house has been completed up to the second story. The materials for Professor Mebane’s and Mrs. Buckner’s new houses have been hauled to the lots and the work is expected to begin soon. These new homes are on the Concord Avenue extension.

Miss Jessamine Brown, who has completed her course in nurse’s training at the Charity Hospital, of New Orleans, visited her parents here for a few days before leaving for Winston-Salem. Miss Brown will be located in the City Hospital there.

Dr. J. B. Daffin, ’18, was the guest of the Misses Lafferty last week. Dr. Daffin is head of the department of chemistry at Batesville College, Batesville, Ark.

Davidson Theatre
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Mon. & Tues, Feb. 28, & March 1
Clara Bow in “It”

Wednesday, Thursday, March 2, 3
Charles Ray in “Getting Gertie’s Garter”

Friday, March 4
Billy Dove in “An Affair of the Follies”

Saturday, March 5
Tim McCoy in “Winner of the Wilderness”