THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 10, 1927

PLAYING THE GAME

With Withers Activities Hampered Bull A-Plenty Dull Sport Season Anderson and Wilson | Baseball Again

Although hampered tremendously by the recent mammoth snow, athletic teams might be said to be progressing with the same rapidity as last week and the week before. Only that several branches of sports have disbanded and tucked away uniforms and other paraphernalia until 12 moons have passed away and this journal again heralds the close of a “successful season.” But the writer of this bunkum in 1928 will shy away from all such ideas as the total absence of dope for this space-filler at this time of the year is appalling. Several times this year we have been on the verge of allowing the poor readers of The Davidsonian rest from such vain accusations as dribble from a second-hand typewriter. We realize that everyone knows Captain So and So led his team to a stupendous victory over a vastly superior aggregation and that even the lowly Fresh understand the cinder path artists are performing admirably ad infinitum. Be that as it may!

One item of unusual interest has come to our notice within the week, however. Grier Davis, 138-pound class wrestler, tells the following true story. Davis weighed in for the Duke wrestling match on a Friday and he tipped the scales at 136 1/2. One week later, last Friday, after he had been off training only four days, the same scales, under the same conditions as prescribed before, showed Davis as being exactly 155 pounds light. Some record, we call it, or some scales, maybe!

According to a prominent North Carolina daily, Tom Anderson, retiring basketball captain, is rated on the second team on its all-state fives. He is the only Davidson man mentioned in the write-up. If it is not a mite speaking to a Hercules, we would say that the honored sports editor erred slightly. We consider Wilson, lanky Wildcat center and guard extraordinary, to be at least among the best in Tar Heeldom. Throughout the season, in almost every game, Wilson’s remarkable work under the basket played a part in the success of the local team. Taller than most basketeers, he easily stopped many a drive down the court and equally as easily recovered ball after ball from the backboards. Yes, to Wilson and Anderson must go a large volume of praise uttered in the direction of our Wildcat camp for their powers exhibited on the court this winter. Surely in the “first ten.”

Fifteen Cats Awarded Varsity Letters After Work on Court and Mat | Seven Men Awarded Numerals—Many Good Men Lost by Graduation

Letters have been awarded to members of the two varsity teams in basketball and wrestling, the seasons of these sports having recently been brought to a close. Monograms have been given to members of the Freshman basketball team. Letters in varsity basketball went to: Captain Anderson, McAuley, Calhoun, Wilson, Harrison, Simpson, Hudgins, and Manager Carrol. The forwards, McAuley, Harrison, and Calhoun, made a shifty combination. McAuley, in the opening games, was a flash, and his running up of points was the deciding factor in several hard-fought affairs. Harrison, the fastest, proved to be a demon of speed in getting the jump on his opponents. Droopy Hudgins performed in the role of stellar substitute, and won his letter in this capacity.

The wrestlers who received letters were: Captain Frierson, Hill, Crinkley, Davis, Estridge, Flythe, and Garrison. Captain Frierson continued the splendid record he has set since his first year and experienced a most successful season. Hill, a Sophomore, proved to be the find of the year, showing up well in the heavyweight class. The veterans Crinkley and Estridge worked well in all their matches, as did Flythe, another Sophomore. Davis and Garrison distinguished themselves in grueling matches, with men far above their weight.

FRESHMAN SEASON

The Freshmen have just completed a very successful wrestling season, winning all their meets by a large score in every instance. The first meet of the season was with the Barium Springs team at Barium Springs. The Wildkittens showed good form in this initial meet, and came out on the long end of a 23 to 13 score. The next meet was held here with the strong Concord “Y” team. Again the Wildkittens came out on the long end of the score, downing their opponents by a 30 1/2 to 6 1/2 score. The Freshmen were assisted in this meet by some members of the varsity squad who were not on the team.

Resume of Mat Season Tells of Disastrous Year for Former Champs

Grapplers Win Only One Match During Hectic Year—High Spot Against West Point

The varsity wrestling season, though not so successful as it might have been, contained some excellent matches, and some of the members of the team showed some exceptional form. The team had six matches and lost all but one of these, winning from Concord by the overwhelming score of 40 to 3. The first match of the season was with State here on January 15th. The match was very interesting as is shown by the close score, 15 to 12. The Davidson grapplers showed unusual form, and fought with the true Wildcat spirit, but were not able to overcome the strong State team. The next match was with Concord, the Wildcats coming out on the long end of a 40 to 3 score. The Davidson team met the Concord grapplers several times during the year, and won from them each time, in most instances by a large score. The big match with the Army was the third match of the season. The Wildcats went to West Point, and met the strong Army team on the 5th of February. The local wrestlers showed good form in this match, and held the Army grapplers to a 6 to 15 score. The meet with VMI, interesting, was held and the team again showed good form, losing the local (Continued on page 5).The regular varsity team, namely, Pritchett, Hill, and Herriot. Herriot and Hill both won their matches by a fall, while Pritchett won his on a time decision. The third meet was with the Winston-Salem High School, at Winston-Salem. This was one of the best teams the Freshmen met during the season. Some of the matches were hard fought, but in the end, the Wildkittens again came out in the lead, the score being 18 to 8. 

The last meet of the season was a return match with Barium Springs here. The visiting team showed better form this time than they did in the first match, piling up 11 points to the Wildkittens’ 16. Brown showed exceptionally good form in this meet, throwing his man in 52 seconds. Reynolds and Kilgore also won their matches by falls. These three men are due special credit and praise for their work on the mat. All three of them, Brown, Kilgore, and Reynolds, have won every one of their matches by falls. They have shown good form all during the season and look good for varsity material next year. 

The members of the Freshman team with their respective classes are: Kilgore, 118-pound class; Brown, 128-pound class; Reynolds, 138-pound class; Gaines, 138-pound class; Russell, 148-pound class; Brohard, 158-pound class; and Christenberry, 169-pound class.

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Introducing to the readers of The Davidsonian MR. DUNBAR H. OGDEN, JR. (A. B. Davidson College, 1923) 110th President of the Society of Missionary

GARRISON NAMED

P. J. Garrison, of Covington, Ga., was elected captain of next year’s wrestling team at a meeting of lettermen as the grapplers returned from the closing match of the season against Carolina last week. Garrison has been one of the outstanding men on the wrestling squad during the season just closed and bids fair to make an excellent leader in 1928. He ordinarily wrestles in the 148-pound class, but due to Davidson's shortage of heavy men, he has frequently been placed in the heavyweight class, at times pitted against men 30 pounds heavier.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE — THE BEST OF COOKING Charlotte, N. C.

Charlotte Transfer Company PHONE 298 BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Davidson Wrestlers End Season by Losing Match to Tar Heel Grapplers

Captain Frierson Gains Victory in His Match—No Falls Registered During Evening

The Davidson wrestling team, winning the first bout of the evening when Captain Frierson scored a time decision over Fuzzell, fell easy victims to the University of North Carolina wrestlers in Chapel Hill on February 28th by the one-sided score of 20-3, the Carolina matmen taking each succeeding match. This engagement marked the end of Davidson’s season and the last inter-collegiate game for Frierson, Wildcat leader, who closed his term as captain with no losses, he also bringing to a close three years of service for Davidson, during which time one defeat and one draw were chalked up against his otherwise perfect record. 

The hardest fought match of the encounter was in the 148-pound class, Gardner, of Carolina, getting a time decision on Estridge, of Davidson, after a hard session on the canvas. By winning his match Gardner, like Captain Frierson, finished his collegiate season without a defeat. Garrison, wrestling Carolina's captain, Warren, in the 175-pound class and being outweighed 26 pounds, put up a plucky fight only to lose by a time decision. Montsinger, Carolina, scored the only fall of the evening when Flythe, after stubborn resistance, gave under. Each match was hotly contested and provided the onlookers with plenty of thrills and display of nerve and agility. 

The summary:
115 pound—Captain Frierson (D) from Fuzzell (C) on time decision.
128 pound—Flythe (D) lost to Montsinger (C) by fall.
135 pound—Hansel (D) lost to Clemmons (C) on time decision.
148 pound—Estridge (D) lost to Gardner (C) on time decision.
158 pound—Crinkley (D) lost to Taylor (C) on time decision.
175 pound—Garrison (D) lost to Captain Warren (C) on time decision.
Unlimited—Hill (D) lost to Abbott (C) on time decision.

The Vocational Guidance Institute has come and gone. Only five professions of a nearly unlimited number were presented. Have you considered any of these? Stop now! Face the issue fair and square. Be a thinker now or a drifter later!

Graduate school catalogs are in the Y room for any who desire to make use of them. Additional information can be obtained through the Secretary of the Y.

Junior Speaking is coming! The Y is planning an entertainment and will be glad to help any man make arrangements for the festivities.

How is that Morning Watch running? Did you wind it this morning?

Dr. Grier, President of Erskine College, at Y next Sunday evening at 6:15. Bishop Penick the following Sunday. Two splendid speakers! They deserve our backing.

Professional Notices

Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 653
DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance
Commercial National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays 12 to 2

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence, 1937-J

ASTHMA
There is no “cure,” but the wheezy breathing that prevents sleep may oftentimes be relieved by inhaling the soothing medicated vapors of—

VICKS VAPORUB
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Smartly style speaking. Clothes for college men not only by popular acclaim---but recognized throughout college circles as the authoritative---scholastically. The new ones are everything a college man could wish for.

$30 to $50
BRAEBURN
MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.