THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1927

MILITARY DEPARTMENT WELL FURNISHED

It is known to be true that the alumni, friends, and even the students themselves do not know and fully
realize how well the R.O.T.C. Department at Davidson is equipped and prepared to instruct and train the students in military
science and tactics. Therefore, it is the purpose of the somewhat statistical report which follows to give this information. The
list has been carefully checked by Captain John W. Elkin and Sergeant Kirby, of the R.O.T.C. Department, and contains an
accurate presentation of the facilities of the department.

First, there is an up-to-date and carefully equipped Armory. Contained in the Armory is U.S. Government property amounting to $63,000
worth. It includes:
- 400 Khaki uniforms of seven pieces each, one of which is issued to each student in the Basic Course.
- 429 U.S. Magazine Rifles with accompanying cartridge belts, one of which is issued to each student.
- 300 Sets of Infantry Packs.
- 300 Shelter halves.
- 300 Mess kits.
- 300 Canteens.
- Browning Automatic rifles.
- 4 Browning Machine guns.
- 37MM Gun (one pounder).
- 3-inch Stokes Mortar.
- 26 45-calibre Automatic Pistols.
- 18 U.S. 22-calibre Rifles.
- 20 Complete map drawing outfits.
- 1 Set of Colors.
- 4 Company Flags.
- 1 Complete set of Band instruments for a 45-piece Band.

To be used in connection with the above are: Field telephones, target range equipment, wire-cutters, ammunition, caissons, maps, repair chests,
and harness.

The building contains two regular size classrooms, and two smaller classrooms equipped with blackboards and desks. The offices of the
staff are in two rooms on the first floor. They are equipped with office furniture, typewriters, telephones, mimeographs, and books
for the office work of the department. The entire remainder of the first floor is a combined workroom and storeroom.
A gallery in this department serves as a storeroom. The property of the Government is all housed in this building.

The equipment outside the Armory consists of a small field for outdoor class work, an indoor rifle gallery, an outdoor
rifle range, a spacious parade ground, and a field for machine gun and mortar practice. The terrain surrounding Davidson will
support any kind of practical work such as deploy movements, charges, map work, scouting, and sham battling.

The R.O.T.C. staff is composed of three captains, one lieutenant, and two sergeants. A total of 72 years’ actual military
experience in training and actual warfare and records of the highest are represented in the staff. A majority of the
officers are college men, and all are active church members, which is in keeping with the other members of the
Davidson faculty and the ideals of the college. The officers keep in close personal touch with the students, Captain Weems
being coach of wrestling, Captain Elkin coach of boxing, and Lieutenant Beckett coach of the rifle team.

The U.S. Government has $63,000 worth of equipment in the department, spends $42,000 annually in its upkeep, and $20,000 in
the salaries of the staff. In actual dollars and cents, the facilities total $125,000 each year, not counting the armory
building, fields, and ranges, whose value cannot be accurately estimated.

In summarizing these facts, the R.O.T.C. Department is found complete in every detail for teaching all practical and theoretical work
of military science and tactics, under the guidance of capable officers.

NISBET IS ELECTED HEAD
(Continued from page 1)

first time during the 1926 football season, playing quarterback for the Davidson team. His headwork and general management of the
team being one of the main factors in the winning of the championship for the Wildcats. Wilson is a member
of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

C. R. Pritchett was captain of the freshman basketball team during the 1927 season. Pritchett was high scorer for the
team for the entire season and was a most versatile player. He was also prominent in the class basketball tournament.

FOR INSPECTION

Davidson to Act as Host to Scientists

Davidson College will be host to the annual meeting of the North Carolina Academy of Science, when members of this
scientific body come here for a two-day session, May 6th and 7th. The meeting was held at Raleigh last year,
when approximately 125 of the 274 members attended, and it is expected that a like number will be present this
year.

Officers of the Academy of Science are Prof. Bert Cunningham, Duke University, president; Prof. F. E. Rice, N.C. State, vice-president;
and Prof. H. R. Totten, University of North Carolina, secretary-treasurer. The executive committee is composed of the president and Prof.
J. W. Nowell, Wake Forest; Prof. C. M. Heck, N.C. State; and Prof. H. B. Arbuckle, Davidson College.

It will be some time before the...The program will be announced by the officers, it was stated here, because most
of the discussions are voluntary, and papers must be filed with the secretary before it can be arranged. In addition
to the noted scientists of this state who will appear before this gathering, it is expected that nationally known men
will speak. Four departments are contained in this organization—chemistry, physics, mathematics, and biology. Papers will be read on each one.
Although similar organizations exist in Tennessee, Texas, Alabama, and Virginia, the North Carolina body claims the distinction of being the
oldest in existence, being organized over 30 years ago. It is not confined merely to college professors or students, which
affords opportunity for a wider range of activity and a more comprehensive discussion of the several sciences mentioned.

HAMLIN GARLAND, AUTHOR
(Continued from page 1)

As the word “Hoosier” is in our language. Many of Riley’s idiosyncrasies were related and his manner of speech and
action was impersonated by Mr. Garland. Mark Twain was “a beautiful profanity,” according to the writer, and several experiences, especially
one concerning the “Memoirs of Grant,” were spoken of. In accounting for errors that arise in Mark Twain's stories, the
following was quoted as being a statement which he made late in life: “When I was young, or younger, I
knew a great many things that were so and that were not so, and in these later days, I can
only remember the latter.”

In speaking of that land “between the settlement and the fighters,” that Middle Border land, Mr. Garland told, at night,
of the steady westward movement of civilization, moving in two parallel lines, one, the skirmish line—the far borders of actual
settlements and the line of the home builders and in between these two, the middle ground. The author began his
lecture with the early lives of people and of the moving of his father to the West; he told of
the trials and hardships; of the home building and of the moving on, farther and farther westward. Following the return
of his father from the Civil War, they went from Wisconsin to Iowa, remaining there for a short time, only
to move on to Dakota. Deciding to take the back-trail, they returned to Wisconsin, there to re-establish the home which
they had left many years before. Several of his poems and prose selections were given which the audience greeted with
the greatest enthusiasm of the evening.

WILDCATS LOSE TO ELON
(Continued from page 2)

Meadows ip 2s222sgo2 Se (0) 1) (0) () (1) MMCAU Ay: 225225 feos es ee 10,0 0.0 eta lsc eine,
ee 627 3.6.27, 14) xBatted for Glenn in ninth,

Score by innings: R H E
Elon 120 010 030— 7 12 4
Davidson 102 000 000— 3 6 1

Errors: Braxton, Hoyle, Glenn. Summary—Three-base hit: Harrington; sacrifice hit: Crutchfield, Murray 2, Johnson; double play: Glenn to Black to Crawford
to Kugler; stolen bases: Crutchfield, Harrington, Woodham; base on balls: off Cathey 2; hits: off Cathey 11 with 7 runs
in 8 innings, off Meadows 1 with no runs in 1 inning; left on bases: Elon 10, Davidson 5; wild
throw: Meadows; losing pitcher: Cathey; umpire: Brandon.

Modern smoking pleasure that never fails.

The smokers of this age are the most independent ever known. Accepting no hearsay, they have smoked out the facts.
They have learned that the choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos grown are rolled into Camels, that here is the incomparable
blending for goodness, that Camels simply never tire the taste. Camel is the cigarette that never fails to please the
modern age. Regardless of how often you want the comfort of a smoke, of how steadily you light one after
another, Camel will never fail you, never give you any but the finest thrill of smoking pleasure. This is why
Camel’s popularity, by far the largest in the modern world, keeps overwhelmingly in the lead. As modern taste becomes more
insistent upon choice tobaccos, increasing millions discover Camel’s incomparable mildness, smoothness, and mellowness. If you want the cigarette that’s good
to live with from morn to midnight, the one that is the choice of the modern age, “Have a Camel!”

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C. © 1927

Everything a good Drug Store can supply
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument

And they’re made for college men,---good looking, well made, styles you men like, the sort you always prefer, by comparison.

Gilmer-Moore Company
CHARLOTTE

CREDENZA, $300.00
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
