2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1927

For Wake Forest, Weir was the leading player and was especially adept at the guard position, while Laning and Mitchell played consistently.

PLAYING THE GAME With Withers

A No-Fall Match Several Defeats Freshmen Start Boxing Inaugurated

The line-up: Davidson: Johnson, rf; Pritchett, lf; L. Smith, c; Mauze, lg; Baker, rg. Substitutions: Moore, McGavock, Prevost, E. W. Smith, and Christian.

Spring Practice

A notable showing against the United States Military Academy wrestling team was able to gain a decision in the seven matches, and the first contest between the Army and Davidson ended with the future generals holding the long end of a 15 to 6 score. This recent go with the Pointers is a real advance for the Wildcats in the athletic world. The locals have always ranked high in the mat game, and this match only serves to advance that standing. Captain Frierson and Estridge won their matches in a rather easy fashion although no falls were gained by either side. Much credit is due Garrison, who wrestled thirty pounds out of his weight class to enter the grapple with Meacham. Another man, Hill, went on the mat Saturday to take the heavyweight match.

Baker was prominent throughout the game with his close guarding that kept Wake Forest from the goal. Lawrence Smith also played a good defensive game the first half, only four field goals being scored by Elon. Their offensive was good in the first half also, 29 of their 35 points being scored during that period. As soon as a good lead was assumed, the Wildcats seemed to lose their pep and drive, speaking in football terms. This fact was sadly shown in the second half, when the Elon quintet almost doubled the points scored by the Davidson team.

Davidson Downs Elon in Sweeping Victory, 43-29

Christians Overcome by Scintillating Play Staged During First Half of Contest

Tuesday night, February 1, the Davidson Wildcats defeated the Elon quintet 35 to 20. The first half Davidson looked as if it had a real basketball team and heaped up an unsurmountable lead. The second half clearly went to the Elon team, which outplayed and outpointed the Wildcats. Simpson was high point man of the Davidson team with a total of ten points. All of his five well-timed field goals were shot beyond the fifteen-foot line. Anderson and Wilson were second in points scored, each with a total of three baskets.

Cadet Wrestlers Win in Exciting Fall-less Go Against Wildcats, 15-6

Captain Frierson and Estridge Win Decisions from Army Grapplers at West Point

Although failing to gain a single fall over the Wildcat grapplers, West Point managed to garner enough time decisions to give them a 15 to 6 victory last Saturday night at West Point. It is a well-established fact that the Army is a leader in wrestling activities, being one of the foremost in the country, and as they were favored to win in the meet with Davidson, the excellent showing made by the Wildcats is indeed encouraging. Captain Frierson, although unable to win his match by a fall, gained a substantial time advantage over Hunter, of West Point. Garrison, who wrestles regularly in the 145-pound class, locked horns with Meacham, of the 175-pound class, and although he lost by a time advantage, he was able to keep his much heavier opponent from gaining a fall. Tom Hill, who wrestled in his first intercollegiate match in the unlimited class, was defeated by a time decision in the extra period. Blythe, Davis, and Crinkley also lost their matches by small time advantages. Captain Weems, wrestling coach, is greatly encouraged by this excellent showing made on this trip.

Freshmen Take Initial Game From Deacons in Sweeping Victory, 43-29

Pritchett Runs Wild to Make 18 Points

Opening their first game of the season, the Davidson Wildkittens won a sweeping victory from the Wake Forest Frosh last Wednesday night by a score of 43-29. Starting the game with a rush led by Pritchett, star-captain of the Davidson Fresh, the 'Kittens were never in danger throughout the game, but left their opponents trailing by several strides. Accounting for 18 of the points, Pritchett was easily the star of the game. Darting through the opposition, he was able to ring goals with uncanny accuracy. Baker and Smith also played a good game, looping five field goals during the game. Prevost and McGavock also played well.

TRACK PRACTICE

Track practice has been unofficially hard at work for some time. The managers have already started work on the track, getting it into shape for the coming season, and are working on the excavation and preparation of the jumping pits at present.

Professional Notices

Dr. Vance Hasty, Dentist
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance
Commercial National Bank Building
Statesville, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays by appointment.
Phones: Office 588. Residence 65-J.

Dr. John S. Hoffman, Dentist
811, 812, 813, 814, and 815 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5050. Residence 1937-J.The match summarized follows:

The Guilford Wildcats are looking forward to shaking their jinx and winning by a wide margin. Gagers piled up a total of 12 possible points from fouls, while the Davidson team scored only three, while Elon made two out of three tries good. All of the Wildcats’ three points by free shots were made by the same man, R. Calhoun.

The lineup was as follows:

115-pound class—Frierson, Davidson, defeated Hunter, Army, decision; time advantage, 3:30.
125-pound class—Daly, Army, defeated Flyth, Davidson, decision; time advantage, 7:00.
135-pound class—Morrow, Army, defeated Davis, Davidson, decision; time advantage, 5:30.
145-pound class—Estridge, Davidson, defeated Crinkley, decision; time advantage, 4:00.
175-pound class—Meacham, Army, defeated Garrison, Davidson, decision; time advantage, 8:00.
Heavyweight class—Greene, Army, defeated Hill, Davidson, by decision in extra period.

Score—Army, 15; Davidson, 6.

The Davidsonian Varsity enjoyed the way in which they defeated Wake Forest. In electing Pritchett captain, they are looking forward to better luck. The strongest freshman teams in the state should come from this year's team. The Wildcats’ honors were enjoyed by the Davidson team, which showed up well in the first games, working well together and showing ear-marks of stellar players.

The inauguration of boxing at Davidson, a sport prohibited with other colleges, is a great step forward. Although this is new, the men who turn out enjoy slugging each other. Last year several exhibition matches were held among the members of the team and were enjoyed by the students. There are several men in school who would make a creditable showing against other college teams if this was permitted. Too much cannot be given to Captain Elkins for the interest and time he is giving this sport, for it is through his efforts that the interest in boxing does not die.

Much good material has been turning out for spring practice and prospects are good for next year’s team. John Melton, who was a star lineman year before last, is back and looks good for next fall. Coach Tex is making good use of those freshmen who made up the first-year team. A number of them are being used and will undoubtedly find a place on the squad. Several men have been injured slightly in the scrimmages but are almost over their knocks and bruises and are getting in trim once more.

Word has come to our ears that the tennis team is negotiating with several teams in the North for matches on their spring trip. Victories over Colgate, the University of Pittsburgh, and others would sound mighty good to Davidsonians, and with the abundant supply of good material, such is not improbable. This schedule is not complete nor are any contracts signed as yet, but when all these colleges are fishing for engagements with Davidsonian, some will certainly be closed.

Captain McCutchen, Carr, Roddey, and McAlpine will oppose some time in April.

For the past week, some twenty-five or thirty men, interested in boxing, have been working out daily under the direction of Captain Elkins. “At present there are no definite plans,” announced Captain Elkins. “All arrangements and plans that have been made so far are only tentative, depending on the progress of the team and the interest shown by the student body.” The Athletic Association has offered to furnish a ring and all necessary equipment.

Due to faculty ruling, there will be no intercollegiate matches. The sport is new at Davidson and has not enough support at present to demand an intercollegiate ranking. In lieu of matches with other colleges, an inter-class tournament has been arranged to take place some time in April. Quite a bit of interest has already been shown in the sport and the coming tournament, but before a successful match could be held, there should be at least twenty or more men out. As the sport grows and the interest reaches the proper height, the faculty will give permission for matches with other schools. There is plenty of good material here at Davidson for a fine boxing team, and Captain Elkins urges all men who have any talent or interest in boxing to come out for the team if possible.

Both Carolina and State have good boxing teams, and it is only natural that the sport should grow at Davidson. They would furnish opposition for the team and provide an amusement not formerly found here at Davidson. Nearly every sport recognized in the southern college world is represented by a team at Davidson, and there is no reason why the sport should not grow and flourish here.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE—THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

At Efird’s! WEATHER PROOF COATS $30.00
A splendid selection in these fine Heidelberg-Wolfe Weather Proof Knit Coats. Smart, imported fabrics, well-tailored along 1926 lines. For rough weather wear, they are unsurpassed. One big special group for College Men, $30.00.

MEN’S SECTION STREET FLOOR
Exclusive Agents in Charlotte for “Fashion Park” Suits