THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1927

Senior Class Holds Smoker at New Maxwell-Chambers Hotel

On Wednesday night, September 14th, the Senior class held a smoker in the banquet room of the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel. Speakers
for the night were chosen from prominent men connected with Davidson. Professor Currie and Professor Foreman, of the faculty, were
two of the speakers. Coaches “Tex” Tilson and “Monk” Mattox, members of the Wildcat coaching staff, also spoke. Coach Monk
Younger was unavoidably detained and could not reach the meeting in time to speak.

Caldwell Withers, president of the class, announced the class committees as follows:

Commencement Program and Speakers
W. L. Lingle, Chairman; F. S. Wearn, C. F. McRae, John Akers, and Boyce Martin.

Finance
Rod McRae, Class Treasurer, Chairman; R. W. Carr, H. F. Peterson, J. L. McGee, J. R. McCravery, J. C. Montgomery.

Entertainment
V. J. Guthery, Chairman; J. S. Foster, R. S. Lowrance, Gordon McSwain, E. L. Douglas, S. M. Withers, Tom Lothery,
J. S. Gray.

Gift
Bob Platt, Chairman; H. B. Arbuckle, Mutt Stigler, J. S. McAlister, A. H. McPhaul, R. S. Link.

Insignia
Jeff Garrison, Chairman; Chalmers Carr, Charlie Baskerville, Frank McCravry, Duncan McEachern.

TWO PEP MEETINGS (Continued from page one)

The out-door pep meetings and the bonfires should prove a great success. So far, the Freshmen have entered into the
fun and have caught that fighting Wildcat tradition in good spirit. The use of megaphones and the addition of new
and better yells have been a big improvement over last year and along with the older yells, which now are
almost traditional, should have a big effect on the pep.

Arrangements are being made to take the band to as many out-of-town games as possible. Special trains and buses will
be used to transport the band and the student body to many of the games, four buses having already been
filled for the Citadel game in Gastonia Saturday. Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, will accompany the team to the Florida game
at Jacksonville, and will send back the results play by play. This method will also be used to hear results
from other games, too far away to reach either by bus or train. Special leased wires to the gym, as
were had last year for the N. C. State, V. M. I. and other games.

The United States annually expends $4,700,000 in looking up misdirected mail.

If you select your hat here --- at Hat Headquarters --- you may choose from smart shapes and new colors
as sponsored by Dabbs, a recognized style leader. $8 AND UP TATE-BROWN Co.

R.O.T.C. Cadets Are Speedily Organized

Two weeks of regular college work being completed, the R.O.T.C. unit has held the scheduled drills: two hours on Wednesdays
and one hour on Fridays. During these drills the battalion, companies, and platoons have been organized with remarkable speed and
instruction begun, the upperclassmen instructing the freshmen in the fundamentals of the course. The freshmen showed ability in picking up
the old Army style. For the coming month, the battalion will do intensive work in the close order drill and
hope to have the new men in shape for the first parade, which is scheduled for the afternoon of October
5th. The Sophomores are getting back into shape rapidly after a furlough of three months. In the advanced course this
year there are 65 men, 27 Seniors and 38 Juniors, while the basic course has about the same number as
usual. There are 140 Sophomores and 206 Freshmen. Captain Daugherty states that the rifle team will be started earlier this
fall than heretofore. Captain Elkins and Professor Cullum are attempting to reorganize and renovate the R.O.T.C. Band. There is a
necessity of a larger number of men who can play some instrument well. They want to make it a college
band as well as an R.O.T.C. Band. A plea is made not to play in the band merely for the
purpose of “getting by” in the R.O.T.C., but to put forth effort to make a real “Davidson College Band” which
will help the football team in its fight to retain the championship.

The band has obtained transportation for about 15 men to go to the game with Citadel at Gastonia. There are
20 other members who should go if they can obtain a way. A request is made to the town people
to try to provide a way to get the band to Gastonia to support the Wildcats. Notice is given that
the rifle assignments are posted on the bulletin in front of the Armory.

RHODES SCHOLARS

Recent alumni and upperclassmen are hereby reminded that Rhodes Scholars will be appointed this fall in the states of Kentucky,
Alabama, Arkansas, Colorado, Georgia, Mississippi, and Texas. A Davidson man resident of any of these states will apply for appointment
in his own state. Men are eligible who were born between the first of October, 1903, and the first of
October, 1909. The Committee on Selection in each state is expected to give greatest stress on scholarship with due consideration
being given to character, leadership, public spirit, athletic interests, etc. The appointment is for a period of three years, the
appointee to receive four hundred pounds sterling each year.

There will be no appointments this year in the states of North Carolina, South Carolina, West Virginia, Florida, or Louisiana.
All Davidson men who are interested should communicate before the 13th of September with Professor Thos. W. Lingle, who represents
Rhodes Scholarships at Davidson College.

New Schedule Promises Interesting Season for Wildcat Debating Team

Five Varsity Debaters Will Compose Nucleus for Northern and Southern Trips

When school opened this fall, eyes were turned to every phase of student activities. Many eyes are now turned to
see what the prospects are for the coming debating season. The outlook for the Wildcats is very bright, despite the
fact that they have a very hard schedule this year. With the combination of those men who were on the
team last year, and those men who were on the Freshman team, the debating question seems settled. The men who
were on the varsity last year, and who will probably compose a nucleus around which the team will be built
this year, are H. T. Powell, L. K. Pritchett, Tyree Dillard, W. K. Pritchett, and Bob Grady. Beside these experienced
debaters, there comes a quintet from the Freshman team of last year. These are: Alex Eddleman, Murray Christian, Miller, and
Carl Pritchett. These men together with the men who were on the team last year, will be the backbone of
the team.

The debating schedule for the Wildcats this year is a very hard one. A trip will be made to the
North where the Davidson team will argue against George Washington University and two other colleges, which have not been settled
on as yet. Another team will makea trip to the South, meeting Emory, Sewanee, and one other school. Both these
teams will meet with strong opposition, but they will of course be expected to bring back victories, as is the
custom of any Davidson team. Beside these two trips, the debating teams from Rutgers, William and Mary, and Duke will
invade the Wildcat lair, and will attempt to beard the Wildcat on home grounds, a thing which is well nigh
impossible to do. A different team will represent Davidson on each of the two trips, and at home. With the
members of the varsity and the five new men from the Freshman team of last year, Davidson should be well
protected from the opposing teams and will come out well in the lead, as they have done in past years.
Two debates with the Freshman team of the University of North Carolina have been arranged for the Fresh debaters. Two
men will represent each team, one team debating at Davidson with one team and another at Chapel Hill at the
same time. Try-outs for the coveted positions will be held some time in the early spring.

WILDCAT-CADET SCRAMBLE
(Continued from page one)
Reeder—169 ---------------- Wearn—144 | End
King—178 ----------------- Hampton—185 | Tackle
Hig—189 ------------------ Laws—207 | Tackle
Howard—155 -------------- McColgan—165 | Guard
Thompson—187 ------------ Melton—163 | Guard
Skelton—186 -------------- Red Grey—155 | Center
Capt. Blanding—153 ------- Wilson—160 | Quarterback
Armstrong—147 ----------- Capt. Dick Grey—155 | Halfback
Harris—132 ---------------- Harrison—144 | Halfback
Ingram—177 --------------- Nisbet—160 | Fullback

A cordial welcome is extended to the new men as well as the old by WHITE DRUG COMPANY DAVIDSON, N.
C.

Come to HERP’S for a reason why more college men come to Johnson’s Barber Shop THREE DOORS BEYOND THE BANK.

MUSICAL DEPARTMENT PLANS LARGE AND VARIED PROGRAM

Ministerial Band is Addressed by Prof. Dr. C. M. Richards was the chief speaker at the second meeting of the
Ministerial Band Sunday afternoon. Arrangements for a banquet at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel were also formulated. A very interesting talk
was given by Dr. Richards on the subject, “As Thy Servant was busy here and there, He was gone.” He
spoke of the trust and responsibilities resting upon the members of the band not only when they are practicing their
life-work, but when present in college. As candidates for the ministry you are leaders in the spiritual life of the
college, said the speaker. He continued in saying that the main responsibility upon the ministerial student at college was to
learn the Word of God in order that they may be aided thereby in bringing the lost to Christ. They
should not be busy “here and there” with other things and let the unsaved be “gone” without the saving grace
of Christ. Only a few Freshmen were present at the second meeting of the band. Out of the 26 ministerial
students of the Fresh class, only seven were present. It is hoped that the whole number will join the band
as active members. A committee consisting of Allan Frew, McQueen, and Gus Cox was appointed to draw up plans for
the banquet to be held tomorrow night at 9:00 o'clock.

Heat Delays Class Basketball Tryouts

Just as soon as the weather gets a little cooler, class basketball will begin. It has been so hot that
Coach “Monk” thought it inadvisable to start practice at once. However, within the next month, the class basketball season will
be well under way. According to Charlie Carson, varsity basketball manager, the games and practices will be conducted as they
were last year. Each class will elect a manager who will have charge of his team. Then certain nights of
the week will be set aside for the practices of the various teams. Much interest has been displayed in the
class teams heretofore, and good material is sometimes discovered during the games. Manager Carson plans to arrange the schedule soon,
so the games can be played as soon as the teams are in shape.

For some time, especially during the past few years, a large number of students and others interested in the college
and its progress as a literary institution have been looking forward to a course or series of courses in the
fine arts. With the addition of a professorship of musical instruction the first step towards this goal has been realized.
This step has not been taken thoughtlessly or carelessly, but is the result of years of consideration and then, being
inevitable, had to come. One of the evidences of the step is the addition to the college curriculum of a
course dealing with the subject. Another of the evidences is the addition to the college of a course in the
“History and Appreciation of Music.” It will be taught again next year in connection with another course, “An Appreciation of
Art.” The college has been fortunate in securing the services of Professor Cullum and has furnished for his use the
rooms on the bottom floor of the historic Eumenean Literary Society Hall. One is to be used as a classroom.
It faces on the front side towards Phi Hall and contains a small piano and victrola for use in instruction.
The other room is to be fitted as a studio and will contain a piano for practice and other fittings
as necessary. Professor Cullum comes to us from Hartford, Conn., where he has been director of music at Trinity College.
His career is a colorful one. He was reared under the influence of English Church Choirs and studied extensively abroad.
For a time he was in London, England, with the Tonic Solfa College. Mrs. Cullum is no mean musician herself.
She comes to the college community as a leading oratorio and church singer in Chicago and the Middle West. Together
with his capacity as a teacher in the college, Professor Cullum will have charge of the musical organizations of the
campus. He is also interested in other things. In a discussion he said he would like very much to find
as many as possible of the traditional songs of the Alma Mater, songs sung by Davidson College students dating back
to the time the college began to function. With the help and interest of the alumni of the college he
hopes to make a collection of songs that were dear to the hearts of some Davidson men and sacred to
the history of the college. At present there are only two college songs, “College Ties,” and “O Davidson.” Another subject
he wishes to develop is (Continued on page 8)

Come to See Us for Your Shoes, Shirts, Ties, Hats, and Caps. New shipments received weekly. Give us a trial.
Your business always appreciated.

THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.

Come in and see what is new and proper for campus wear. Upper Class Men Know Their BRAEBURNS. To you
men who are just entering the halls of learning for the first time, we extend an invitation to drop in
and see. To upper classmen we merely say, the Braeburns are here. $35 to $50

MELLON’S CHARLOTTE, N. C.
