4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

DEDICATED BY CLASS OF ‘15

"The Livest Wire on the Hill"

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN ........................................ Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD ........................................ Business Manager
A. N. BROWN ........................................ Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT ........................................ Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARITY ........................................ Managing Editor
C. R. E. ........................................ Athletic Editor
W. SLING ........................................ Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS ........................................ Associate Editor
T. T. JONES ........................................ Associate Editor
C. WADSWORTH ........................................ Alumni Editor
K. E. ........................................ Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY ........................................ Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON ........................................ Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL ........................................ Assistant Business Manager
B. K. CARR ........................................ Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON ........................................ Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS ........................................ Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE ........................................ Solicitor
B. H. McCALL ........................................ Solicitor

Reporters’ Club
H. H. BAILEY ........................................ President
W. J. BYRD ........................................ Vice-President
R. G. GRAHAM ........................................ Secretary, Treasurer
J. P. ANDERSON
R. W. McDERMIT
W. H. BEST
W. B. McQUEEN
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D. MILLER
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. PRATT
R. F. JARRARD
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. KING
W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. ILSON

EDITORIAL

COLLEGE CRITICS

Two or three times a year some disillusioned would-be genius raises his erudite head and brays that all American colleges and universities are worthless and ruin every man that enters into any one of them. These extremely intellectual people insist that colleges are defeating their own purpose by being merely a gathering place for some set, a glorified country club or something of that sort. To date, there has been no one particularly who has declared this collegiate year that colleges will be the downfall of the entire race. But if these pessimists run true to form, there should be some syndicated article or magazine discussion proclaiming this remarkable discovery sometime within the near future.

At least one man has already started the attack against these men who insist that the present college is useless. He managed to get his assault over before the enemy had fired his first shot. The man who believes that colleges are useful and accomplish their purpose is Dr. W. M. Lewis, recently inaugurated president of Lafayette College. In his inaugural address, he stated that the allegation that colleges were taking on the atmosphere of country clubs was false, and that for the most part colleges stuck to the academic groove in which they were supposed to run. He also repudiated the argument that colleges were producing too many “uniform” men. He insists that the men which colleges of the present day produce are men capable of meeting problems, men who face life unafraid because they understand the world in which they live.

Dr. Lewis also brought out the idea that Lafayette College was being true to the ideals of the man for which the institution was named. This is relative to the process of culture, about which Lafayette said, “I read, I study, I listen, I reflect, and out of all this I try to form an ideal into which I can put as much common sense as I can.” It is this idea of culture and education for which many institutions were founded, and it is the belief of numerous educators that the present-day college is fulfilling this mission and task. Naturally, there are a few who fail, and it is these possibly which are subjected to such severe criticism. But on the whole, it seems that the college of today is not deserving of the waves of criticism which sweep over it.

It is on this general theory that Dr. Meiklejohn has founded his new college at the University of Wisconsin. This college, in experimenting with a new theory and system in regard to higher education, may possibly prove faults of the college of today. But its proof will be in mechanical terms, the best system of instruction, etc., and will in no way repudiate the principles for which institutions were founded. In this new experimental school, they are attempting to have very much smaller classes, in an attempt to be of more value to the student. This is probably one criticism which is justified, that students are not able to obtain enough individual instruction and aid in attempting to solve various problems. “Human teaching calls for an expense of spirit on each individual,” says C. H. Cooley in Life and the Student, “possibly only when there are a few of them. The teacher is the dividend, the student the divisor, and where there are many, the quotient is routine.” With many students, it is only natural that a class sinks to formalism, and there is little contact with the professor. It is always possible for the students to know the professor in a way, but with large classes, it is almost impossible for the instructor to know each individual. “The function of a college teacher divides itself into two not unequal parts,” Mr. Cooley continues, “to help half his students educate themselves and to hinder the other half from getting easy credits.”

In this one point, the college critic has a notation in his favor,—to be trite, one could quote him the motto of our illustrious nation however. There is one place where the critic loves to concentrate his attack however. This point is that colleges are the hotbed of revolt and radicalism. But he must consider that one individual does not reflect the spirit of an institution. It would be impossible to collect a group of men who thought exactly alike, and it is evident that the outburst of one man does not represent the thoughts of an entire body. The critic also insists that men of genius are held under at a college and not able to develop properly. But institutions and genius are by nature antithetical. It is possible that they may exist together, if they do, both are to be congratulated. Usually, however, these radicals are miscalled genius and others in the neighborhood object strenuously when these are forcibly ejected from college.

Another favorite point of criticism is that college education is not practical enough. Some insist that students studying problems theoretically are unable to face the situations of life sanely and clearly. It is also said that what is taught in the classroom is never brought head-on with some problem in the outside world. This is possibly true in part, and Dr. Meiklejohn’s experiment should clear up this situation in part. Considered wholly, however, one should see that in most cases it would be impossible to attempt to teach a student how to face each particular problem which he may face in after life. It can be readily seen how this would be foolish for the most part, each student preparing to live a life distinct from any other student and an institution attempting to teach them all their own particular life. This point is one criticism which Dr. Glenn Hoover, of Mills College, makes. He says, however, that it is due to the general attitude of the entire country rather than institutions of learning. He bewails the “intellectual tepidity and lack of zip.” He offers the solution, however, saying that “intellectual turbulency and zest is what the American college needs—what the whole country needs... . There is in fact, a mild sort of warfare in the intellectual world, between the forces of truth and the forces of error, and it should be the prime function of college men to introduce some pyrotechnics into that struggle.”

So all in all, it seems that there are a few points of criticism about colleges in general, but none to justify some of the attacks which have been made upon them. All that we can ask these critics to do is to know the situation thoroughly, know the students in general rather than one or two particular examples, understand the principles for which all of these institutions were founded, then possibly they may not want to make as many critical remarks as they have been in the habit of doing.

CONGRATULATIONS

To the freshmen who pledged to the various fraternities on the Hill last Tuesday night, and to the fraternities that pledged them, we offer our heartiest congratulations. To some men, it will be the beginning of a new life, others will take it as they take everything at the school, merely an organization out of which they will get something and into which they will put nothing. Some men will be sadly disillusioned, those who place fraternities among perfect things will find that they are sadly mistaken. There are as many faults in organizations such as these as there are in anything of which man is a component part. There will be lasting friendships formed, however, close companionship with a certain group of men is to be desired, with other groups it is not so necessary or valuable. To some freshmen, last Tuesday night will be a turning point in their lives. In most fraternities, there are two groups.

In Ollapodrida

Two weeks ago Mustafa Kemal Pasha, Turkish leader, started speaking to assembled delegates. A week later, after thirty-six and a half hours of speaking...Intermittently, he concluded his address on the history of his country. Meantime, listeners wept and shouted praises. It was an epic of a saga. But one is reminded that in a year, his oration will be but a forgotten document. Lincoln summarized our history in four minutes at Gettysburg, and his words have lived through half a century.

Fraternity pledge buttons dot the Davidson campus as proud freshmen proclaim their social prestige to the world. From the outside, they have looked upon the secret orders as inseparable units bound in brotherhood. The real secret of every fraternity is that only a member can know of the battling factions within. The fraternity man values his membership but is fully aware of the brotherhood’s shortcomings. Freshmen with ennobled ideas have yet to find that out, but will.

One leading designer of airships has produced planes as thick as flivers in ten years. The same designer has perfected a plane which holds its keel when traveling 15 miles an hour, takes off in 60 feet, and descends in 75 feet with safety. A special wing attached eliminates the possibility of a tail-spin. One cannot deny the possibilities of such a plane.

Freshmen are left to decide with which group they will align themselves. As in all organizations, there will be men who will do a new man good, while usually there will also be men who are apt to do him harm. In considering this, the freshmen should be particularly careful and see that he lines up with the right group, for much will depend on it. And to the men who did not receive bids—better men than you have gone through college life as non-fraternity men. Many of these have done this of their own volition. There are a few advantages in being a member of some social group, but there are many evident disadvantages. This is in no way sour grapes, but an actual fact. Particularly here at Davidson, the line between fraternity man and an independent is scarcely visible. There are any number of excellent men here at Davidson who are not members of fraternities. But above all, there is very little friction and no distinction whatsoever between a man who is a member of a social group and one who is not. And there are some possibly who are not fraternity men because they refused to accept the invitation extended to them. You are no hero, for many other men have done the same thing. If in your own mind you believe that it is best not to become a fraternity man, you should be satisfied. One can readily see why you refused a bid, and there will be no hard feelings from anyone. At Davidson, a man is a man for his own qualities and abilities, not for the fraternity of which he is a member.

AND THE DAY HAS PASSED

Again, Davidson students have proven that they are worthy of being called gentlemen by their conduct during the last few days. The student body as a whole is to be congratulated on refraining from any vulgar outburst on Halloween night and also for its courteous conduct on Homecoming Day. There have been many comments on the thoughtful treatment of the visitors on the campus last Saturday. Any man will be polite if he thinks about it, but the main trouble lies in the fact that too many are thoughtlessly rude. But last Saturday, every Davidson man was thinking of the visitors on the campus and helped them in every way possible. It was this treatment that called for so much favorable comment. There is no easier way for a school to earn an enviable reputation than by every student remembering his position as host and doing as much as he can for the various visitors. On last Homecoming Day, there were a few thoughtless actions which cost the reputation of Davidson no little bit. But this year, there were no such actions and each man was sincerely anxious to aid all those that he could as much as possible.

On Halloween night also, the students were very thoughtful of others in refraining from “decorating” the campus or showing vulgarity in any other similar way. Several times in the past, this regrettable action has occurred and it has hurt many who were in no way connected with the case. But this year, there was none of this whatsoever. True, there was some trash scattered over the campus, but it was discovered that this was done by people not affiliated with the college in any way and that the students were not responsible.

A BIT OF THIS AND THAT
By HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

I have just read a highly interesting generalization upon the psychology of Americans by a young British engineer, who was evidently astonished to find that so many intelligent Americans had bowed in homage before John W. Keely, the perpetrator of one of the greatest scientific hoaxes in the history of the world—the Keely perpetual-motion motor, which was anything but a perpetual-motion machine. The young Englishman declared: “It is a peculiar psychological fact that among a people so energetic and hard-headed as the Americans, every imposture, depending for its success upon mystery, should find multitudes of believers—it may be because of ignorance and impudence, or it may be that much learning maketh mad, but at least all Americans agree in being mystics of the very first water—American geese are always swans, and really Keely gets a good deal of attention.”

It is hard for one to get the full effect of the biting sarcasm contained in the above quotation unless one knows something of the Keely hoax. John Keely was a good carpenter, a talented mechanic, but a better talker. He was not highly educated. With a claim to have discovered a new force in mechanics which was to work wonders, he succeeded in inducing a dozen engineers and hard-headed American capitalists to organize a Keely motor company in New York in 1872, and to subscribe ten thousand dollars to begin construction of his machine. In 1874, he demonstrated the finished motor before a small crowd of Americans in his home city, Philadelphia. Among the expedients resorted to in exploiting a scientific fraud, mystifying lingo is one of the commonest, and in this Keely was an adept. Instead of calling his machine a “motor,” he called it a “vibratory-generator;” in a later demonstration, it became a “hydro-pneumatic-pulsating-vacu-engine” and changes in nomenclature were being rung continually—always vague, delightfully general, and suggesting unlimited possibilities. When his stockholders became wary, Keely declared that he was at last at that crucial stage, lacking just the one slight adjustment which, in all such cases, proves the insurmountable bar to final achievement. His “generator” now became a “liberator” which would disintegrate air and release an “etheric force of cyclonic strength.” Spectators saw a pint of water poured into a cylinder work wonders. A gauge showed a pressure of more than fifty thousand pounds to the square inch—great ropes were torn apart, iron bars broken in two or twisted out of shape, bullets discharged through twelve-inch planks, by a force that could not be explained—but, all the time, Keely continued his ballyhoo. In his exuberance, Keely declared that with one quart of water he could send a string of cars from Philadelphia to San Francisco, and propel a steamship from New York to Liverpool and return on a single gallon. His technical terms were baffling and bewildering, and intentionally so. “Molecular vibration,” “sympathetic equilibrium,” “oscillation of the atom,” “etheric disintegration”—they came glibly from the lips of the carpenter to build up credence among the growing band of American believers. It was not until after Keely’s death that the fraudulent nature of his scheme was exposed. Complicated machinery, hidden away in a cellar, was discovered to have kept the machine running—apparently by compressed air—but, certainly, the pint of water had done nothing more than keep the machine washed. This remarkable trickster for twenty-five years had duped the experts and the great mass of American people, who never stopped to think that his pretensions might be impostures.

One is reminded of the Cardiff Giant, excavated in Onondaga County, New York, by a party of workmen digging a well for one Mr. Newell. This giant figure of a man—lying on his side and distorted in limbs as if in pain—was carefully exhumed and placed on exhibition at the Newell place. By charging a small admission fee, Mr. Newell became wealthy enough to take his “giant” on a tour of the nation, exhibiting it in New York, Boston, Chicago, and other places. A circular declared that “distinguished men in all departments of science have journeyed from far and near to examine, wonder, and theorize over it, among them such names as—(Here followed a list of eminent scholars including the name of President White of Cornell University). All America marveled, but believed that the giant was the figure of a huge prehistoric man. Newell prospered until it was discovered that the figure had been made at Fort Dodge, Iowa, of a great block of gypsum, so large that it could not be transported to the railway station forty-five miles away and as a result, part of the stone was cut away giving the distorted appearance to the figure—that it was carried to Chicago where a German stone-cutter gave it final shape, that it was then dotted and pitted all over with minute pores, that it was then shipped to a place near Binghamton, N.Y., and finally brought to Cardiff and buried in 1868—to be exhumed a year later and put on exhibition throughout a credulous America.