5 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1927

Friendship Constitutes Theme of Last Student Service at “Y” Vespers Sunday

The loving way through the program which was planned a little differently from the usual form of vesper services. Instead of having a main speaker, the meeting was led by several of the “Y” officials. Mimeographed copies of the program were given out at the door. These contained several very fine responsive readings, one of the most impressive of which was:

Leader: If Christ the Lord should come today, as erst to Peter by the sea. And low and tenderly should say, “Oh, my disciple, lovest thou me?” To thee and me—What would our answer be?

Response: If Jesus Christ is a man, and only a man, I say that of all mankind, I cleave to Him, and to Him will I cleave alway. If Jesus Christ is a God, the only God, I swear I will follow Him through heaven and hell, the earth, the sea and the air.

The program was interspersed with several songs. The special music was furnished by T. C. Evans and P. B. Frye, who rendered a xylophone and piano duet. The quartet sang a very beautiful song, “Talk It Over With Jesus.”

Another very impressive responsive reading was:

If you have a friend worth loving, love him, yes, and let him know that you love him, ‘ere life’s evening fringe his brow with sunset glow. Why should good words ne’er be said of a friend—till he is dead?

The vesper closed with the singing of “Blest Be the Tie That Binds,” which left the idea of friendship in the hearts and minds of all.

Five New Men Recently Taken Into Spanish Club

Moriarty, Wall, Ghigo, Burgess and Leathers Initiated Last Wednesday Night

The Spanish Club held its regular initiation ceremony Wednesday night at the Eumenean Literary Society Hall. Besides holding the initiation, a feed was given for the members. Five new men were taken in, John Moriarty, Steve Wall, Francis Ghigo, A. F. Burgess, and L. H. Leathers. Representing the faculty were Professors Fleagle, Blythe, and Goldiere. In all, there were about 20 members present for the meeting.

Prior to this, only one meeting has been held this year as the club has been practically disbanded. A few weeks ago a meeting was held to arrange the order of procedure and plans for the meeting held last week. It was there decided to attempt to make the club take an active interest in affairs pertaining to it and to have a meeting every two weeks.

As the one last week was really the first regular meeting, the success with which it was carried out was very pleasing to the club members. Each initiate was required to read a paper written in Spanish to the regular members. The subjects were “An Autobiography,” “Character of the Spanish People,” “Spain’s Former Greatness,” and “Spain of Today.” In addition to this, the fifth neophyte learned and recited a Spanish poem. These subjects indicate the interest that is being taken in everything concerning Spain, its people, art, and literature.

It has been decided upon by the club to take up in each meeting articles of interest which pertain to anything Spanish. A comprehensive study will be made of the great Spanish authors, their work and lives. Spanish music and art will come under observation sometime during the spring. This is proof of the interest that the members are taking and they will soon have their club as a model for all of this sort to pattern after. The members in the faculty are

Spring Sports Hold Center of Student Stage at Davidson

Baseball and track are well under way, while spring football will continue for several weeks longer. The minor sports, represented by tennis, boxing, and rifle team, are also coming in for a large share of student interest, and it seems that much good work will be done in these lines as well as in the major activities of baseball and track.

A goodly number of men have reported for track, and preliminary exercises, with the view of obtaining tip-top form, are being practiced daily. Captain Goodykoontz is conducting practice until “Tex” Tilson is able to leave his spring-gridders. The return of John Currie, speed-demon, has added immeasurably to the chances for a winner in track. The dashes will

REPORTERS ATTENTION!

Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, professor of English at Davidson, will speak to members of the editorial staff and Reporter’s Club next Monday night at 7 o'clock in the Davidsonian office on the subject of “Good English in News Articles.” This will be the first of a series of addresses that will be made to aspiring journalists of this campus and all members of the two organizations named are urged to be present.

Selz Shoes, Adler Collegian Clothes

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS

Complete line of High-Grade Haberdashery

THE VOGUE - THE SHOP FOR MEN

Campus Representative, R. B. MCQUEEN

15 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Delivered same day

Lance Quality Products

LANCE PACKING COMPANY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WHOLESALE

All dealers

When You Need Candy See Us

26-28 S. College St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A FIVE BILLION DOLLAR LOSS IS NO JOKE!

Accidents are costing the United States five billions each year with 85,000 killed and 7,000,000 injured. An Accident Policy is a vital need to every wage-earner. It costs little to have this protection, nothing to ask about it.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

McALISTER CARSON (’13) Mgr.

Drinks Candy Smokes

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU

Austin Candy Shop Statesville, N. C.taking a great deal of time in working with them, arousing interest, and aiding in all the details. To obtain membership it is necessary to be recommended by the faculty members, and these latter are taking care to elect only those students who really show an active interest in the Spanish course. It is an added honor to the initiates that they have been recommended just as the requirements have become more strict than ever before.

PROMINENT LAWYER TALKS
(Continued from page 1)

a man to whom many opportunities would come, and a person whom people would love.” In preparing himself for this profession, the visitor advised each student to spend a summer in a lawyer’s office. In addition, he suggested that they take courses in bookkeeping, typewriting, and shorthand, in order that they might be more skillfully prepared and ready for all emergencies.

C. E. T. C. Holds Weekly Meeting

The Christian Endeavor Training Class met last Sunday to discuss the topic, “Christian Endeavor in Foreign Lands.” Moye was the leader of the meeting. An attempt was made to show how Christian Endeavor does stretch all over the world. R. C. Butler discussed the topic, Christian Endeavor in Egypt. R. I. Cromartie spoke on Christian Endeavor in the Virgin forests of Brazil. These countries are not very much discussed in missionary groups, and it was with pleasure that these talks were heard. Then G. T. Preer spoke on International and Interdenominational Christian Endeavor, giving a very interesting talk. During the meeting several other countries were touched on, the leader, Moye, several times mentioning various ones. The meeting was by all means a success. Those who came got something very well worth their time spent in attending, and those who stayed away missed a very good meeting. There was also the added enjoyment of special music by Albright, Orr, and Fry.

Most of the positions are open to all comers, however, and keen competition will take place for varsity berths. Baseball will be in full swing now with Coach Monk at the helm, and every effort will be put forth to give the Red and Black supporters a winning combination. Good infield and outfield material is at hand, but the batteries will supply a problem. Wells, Poole, Meadows, Hampton, and Oden are the prospects for the hurling corps while a varsity catcher has yet to be discovered. Ramsey, of last year’s fresh nine, Lacy Hunt, and Black, appear to be the best bets so far. The diamond is in fine shape, as a result of extensive scraping and reconditioning. The ideal spring weather of recent days has caused nearly every man on the hill to turn out for some sort of exercise, and Davidson is fortunate in being able to offer such a wide variety of sports. Golf, tennis, track, baseball, boxing, and football are all under way, and it seems that this spring will witness a great period of Davidson athletics.

ARMY OFFICIALS HERE
(Continued from page 1)

The third part of the inspection is called “Efficiency of Practical” and is rated at 43 per cent, and like the other two is again divided into several heads. They are organization instruction so as to obtain the maximum benefit from the R. O. T. C., the appearance, discipline, courtesy and formal ceremonies, the practical test in command and leadership, the physical training and the physical condition, and a test of the students in subjects prescribed for their respective courses. Last year Davidson won the honor of a distinguished rating and consequently this year has the right to wear the small blue stars just above the insignia on the sleeve.

SOUTHERN STUDENTS CONFER
(Continued from page 1)

At 10:30 a round table discussion on the subject, “The Secretariat of the League of Nations,” was held, under the direction of Dr. P. S. Flippin, Dean of the Graduate School and Professor of History at Mercer University. After dinner, another address on the subject, “Foreign Relations of the U. S.,” was given by Prof. E. H. Henderson, of Furman University. The rest of the afternoon was taken up by a joint meeting of all the delegates with Miss Heminway Jones, National Secretary of the International Relations Club. Many things of interest to the club were brought up and fully discussed. At 7:00 o'clock that evening, the delegates and speakers were given an informal dinner by Emory University, at the Emory dining hall. After dinner, another speech, “Prospects for Further Consolidation in Europe for 1927,” was made by Mr. Huntington Gilchrist, at the Theology Chapel. Saturday morning the program consisted of an address, “The English Speaking People—Will They Fail in Their Mission to the World?”, by Bishop Wilbur P. Thurkield, at Agnes Scott Chapel, a round table discussion, and a business meeting and summary of the Conference by Prof. E. H. Henderson. The Conference was adjourned after the summary by Professor Henderson, at noon Saturday.

PEACE INSTITUTE SOLICITS FUNDS HERE
(Continued from page 1)

It has been asked that certain ones be appointed at Davidson, in the different classes, to look after the raising of money on this campus and the men are being asked to respond to this cause, not only because of its worth, but also because of the splendid way in which Peace students contributed to the building fund of Davidson following the burning of Old Chambers.

FOR THAT TASTE OF Home Cooking On Your Way Home

New York Cafe
29 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A SHOWING complete range of Spring Shoes, Hats and Accessories

Tues., March 8 AT HENDERSON’S JEWELRY STORE

SEE THE NEW BRAEBURNS

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.