THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1927

Volunteer Meeting Proves Interesting

A discussion of the Volunteer movement, together with talks on the general topic of “The Lives of Missionary Heroes” was
taken up at the meeting of the Volunteer Band Sunday afternoon. The local Volunteer Band is working to the point
where their members may be able to solicit membership in the national organization. In order to be a member of
the national band, each member must read a definite amount of material that has been read in either of two
series of reading matter discussed in an open discussion group every other Sunday. One half of the local organization are
already members of the National Band.

The lives of missionary heroes discussed at the last meeting were those of Hudson Taylor, given by John Bradley, and
Robert Morrison, by Shelby Vance. Mr. Bradley spoke of the most outstanding work of Hudson Taylor. The most important work
of Taylor’s life, as brought out by Mr. Bradley, was the founding of the China Inland Mission. Robert Morrison, the
second of the two great missionaries discussed, was the first pioneer missionary in China. Mr. Vance said that this man
has done much to further the work of all missionaries in China.

VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Monday, Feb. 7---Stage Madness, also comedy.
Tuesday, Feb. 8---The Little Journey, also comedy.
Wednesday, Feb. 9---Bebe Daniels in Stranded in Paris.
Thursday, Feb. 10---Sunny Side Up, also comedy.
Friday, Feb. 11---The Old Soak, also comedy.
Saturday, Feb. 12---Pals in Paradise, also comedy.

‘Y’ Secures Three Fine Speakers for February

The Y has secured three exceptionally fine men for the last three meetings of this month. The speaker for Sunday,
February 6th, has not been chosen yet. Bishop Mikell of Atlanta will speak on the thirteenth. Besides being a fluent
speaker, he is active in all forms of young people’s work and with young men. Except for the fact that
Bishop Mikell is coming here in connection with some fraternity work, it is doubtful if the Y could have gotten
him.

The speaker for the twentieth has not yet been fully decided upon, but it is probable that Mr. W. F.
Stevens, of Gastonia, will have charge. This will be one of the best meetings of the month, for Mr. Stevens
has a personal story to tell and is not slow in winning his way to the hearts of his hearers.
While at Washington and Lee he made the football and basketball teams. He is at present assisting his brother in
the Charlotte Y. M. C. A.

The speaker for the twenty-seventh is pending. Judge T. B. Finley, of North Wilkesboro, will probably have charge. Judge Finley
is an elder in the Presbyterian Church and is a prominent man in North Wilkesboro. The spring evangelistic meetings will
be held the first or second weekend in March. Immediately following the spring meetings, Dr. R. C. Greer, President of
Erskine College at Due West, South Carolina, will speak. As many old men have desired to hear Bishop Penick of
Charlotte, who has often spoken at services before, the Y has obtained him for the twenty-ninth of March.

Warner’s Broadway Theatre
WHERE QUALITY MEETS

Announcing the Opening of VITAPHONE IN CONNECTION WITH JOHN BARRYMORE’S LATEST PRODUCTION --- DON JUAN --- Thursday, Friday, Saturday FEBRUARY
3, 4, 5 2:30 and 8:15 P. M. ALL SEATS RESERVED

Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 7, 8 Corrine Griffith in “Paradise for Two”
Wednesday, Thursday, Feb. 9, 10 Richard Dix in “Paradise for Two”
Friday, W. C. Fields in “The Potters”
Saturday, Feb. 12

Davidson Theatre
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“Lady in Ermine” Feb. 11

Sunday Eve. Meetings

WARREN COX WRITES

We have been saying that the safest place to be when they start shooting is where they are shooting AT.
One of the jokers of the campus says he is going to put a white circle over his left breast
as a target, and then he knows that he will be safe.

DAVIDSON TEN YEARS AGO

The Wildcat basketball team made it three straight in their series with the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. when they
defeated that team at Charlotte Friday night by a score of 49 to 34. King and

When the soldiers come, the people leave. All the houses in the villages are destitute save for soldiers. They come,
take what they wish, do what they please with the inhabitants, destroy what pleases them, and move on. We have
quite a number of refugees here at the college, and all that they have left is a bit of bedding
that they were able to run away with. There are many hills around here and the other day Frank Price
got the permission of the military, and went out to the hills and rounded up thirty-eight women and children and
brought them in to the dormitories. (Needless to say, the students have all found that they were needed at home,
and school is dismissed).

The method of transportation in this modern war is all on the shoulders of men, and for that purpose they
must have coolies. It is the gentle art of conscription applied in the Chinese way—force. A soldier sallies forth and
rounds up all the men that he can find—and they do get a bunch of poor-looking specimens. This morning the
college car that I was escorting to the city (foreigners being the only exempt persons) was held up for two
hours by a stream of soldiers and followers. Hundreds of poor coolies, old and young, halt and lame, ragged and
dirty, were carrying ammunition, and rice, and guns up to the front. Each batch of coolies had their guards (coolies
themselves), and the latter are none too gentle.One soldier, about 22 years old, beating one carrier (about 50) with a
huge bamboo carrying pole. They don’t take any back-talk when they’ve got the whip hand, but as soon as the
tide turns against them they are all “Kamerad.” Tomorrow we are evacuating all the women and children, and refugees, and
sending them into the city. The men will stay on and look after the place. Luckily, we have a proclamation
from the general as to our neutrality, and that our grounds are not to be molested, but with bullets flying
over so promiscuously it is best that the women be in safer quarters. There is really not much danger here
unless these troops are defeated and start fleeing, in which case everything in their path will be in danger. All
they will think of is loot, and in that case the fewer the women and children around, the better. As
yet, these troops have not taken Fuyang. If they do take it, we will probably be secure for some time.
If they do not, there is no telling what may happen. Fuyang is a very important point, commanding the Chien
Dang River, and the Northerners will be very hard to dislodge if they take it.

School was dismissed on Christmas Day, and we are not scheduled to start again till February 16th. At that time
we have to make up the work of the incomplete term, examinations, and get in a full Spring semester's work.
Which means more hours per week in each class, and fewer classes for the students. I hope that we can
close the Spring term on time (if we open at all) for I am planning to come back to the
States this summer, and want to come via Europe. If school runs on later than the middle of June I
won’t be able to make the trip in time to get back for any work in the Fall. Anyway, when
I get back to the States I am surely planning to come to Davidson for a visit. Congratulations on the
Championship Team! Three Davidson men here at Hangchow (Frank Price, Guy Craig, and myself) say “Repeat it next year.”

Sincerely,
W. M. Cox, Jr.

An engineer was here last week from the Southeastern Underwriters Association looking over the city water works and fire-fighting apparatus
of the town so that a recommendation for lower insurance rates may be made. Mrs. Dugald Monroe, of Red Springs,
N.C., was the guest of Mrs. J. M. Douglas during January. The Davidson Music Club is meeting Monday. Murray starred
for Davidson. Stetson University, of Florida, was defeated the following Wednesday on the local floor, the final score being 47
to 14. King again starred with 18 points to his credit.

The preliminary contests for the intercollegiate debating teams were held Monday night in the Philanthropic and Eumenean Society Halls. The
query discussed was “Resolved, That the employers and employees of public service corporations should be compelled to settle their disputes
by arbitration.” The faculty selected four men from each society who will compete in the finals on February 12th, when
two teams of two men each will be selected from the eight contestants. Winners in the Phi Society were Neal,
Ratchford, Thames, and Webber, with Fowle as alternate; in the Eu, Bellingrath, Cousar, Eikel, and Patterson were selected, with Woods
as alternate.

Films, furnished through the courtesy of the Bureau of Commercial Economics of Washington, were shown in Shearer Hall on Friday
evening, February 2nd, at 6:45. These films were entitled “From Cloth to Suit,” and “Trails in the Canadian Rockies.” Similar
pictures will be shown during the rest of the season.

On last Saturday night the members of the Winston-Salem Club met and enjoyed a delightful “feed” in 68 Chambers. Plans
were also discussed for boosting the interests of the “Twin City” at Davidson. Seven members were present. The new officers
for the Y.M.C.A. were elected at the close of the meeting last Thursday night. J. L. Fowle was elected to
the office of president, W. C. Cumming was vice-president, while C. W. Worth and J. L. Maddrey were elected secretary
and treasurer respectively.

The inter-class football season opened Saturday, when the Junior and Sophomore teams battled to a scoreless tie. The game was
hard fought throughout, and proved interesting in many parts. Both teams threatened to score at several stages, but neither developed
enough to make the threat good. Billy Sayad, all-state football guard, was elected to the presidency of the Eumenean Society
at its last meeting. H. M. Grey, manager of the track team, has arranged a strong schedule for the Wildcat
track men. Clemson, N.C. State, Carolina, Trinity, and Wake Forest have signed contracts for meets during the coming spring.

The annual Soph banquet was held on Monday night, February 5, at the Selwyn Hotel in Charlotte. Dr. J. M.
McConnell made a splendid talk on “Loyalty and Patriotism.” R. O. Harris was toastmaster for the occasion. The campus was
shocked to hear of the death of “Jack” Black’s father on Sunday, February 4th. Dr. Black was a practicing physician
in Cabarrus County, but had a host of friends and admirers here in Davidson.

IMPERIAL
Charlotte, N.C.
NOW PLAYING
RICHARD DIX
in “Paradise for Two”
WITH BETTY BRONSON
NEXT MONDAY
“HOTEL IMPERIAL”
A Big Story of the World War, with Pola Negri and a big cast.
