THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 1, 1927

Alumni Secretaries Leave to Organize Local Associations in Carolina Cities

First Step in Program to Establish Local Groups

EXTENDED TOUR

Meetings at Greensboro, Asheville, and Greenville, S.C.—Visit in Winston-Salem

Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, and Harllee Branch, Jr., assistant alumni secretary, left Davidson Tuesday morning on an extended tour of
North and South Carolina for the purpose of organizing Davidson alumni in the leading cities of these two states into
local associations. With the exception of a meeting of the Gaston County alumni, held early in the fall, the present
tour marks the first step in the proposed organization of numerous local groups of Davidson alumni throughout the Carolinas. A
tour of Georgia and Florida by Mr. Milton shortly after the opening of college in September resulted in the organization
of three new local associations in Florida.

The first stop on the tour of the Carolinas was made at Greensboro, Tuesday evening, when the alumni secretaries were
guests of honor and principal speakers at a banquet arranged by Mr. John McAllister, president of the Greensboro association. Alumni
from High Point, Pomona, and other nearby points attended the meeting in addition to a large number of the Greensboro
residents.

On Wednesday, Milton and Branch were in Winston-Salem, where they interviewed alumni who reside in that city. In view of
the impossibility of arranging a meeting of the Winston-Salem alumni, officials of the alumni office have chosen this means of
reaching the former Davidson students who reside in that city.

Thursday evening, the alumni of Asheville will meet at the George Vanderbilt Hotel, where a banquet has been arranged for
them under the direction of J. H. McConnell, Jr., of the class of ’25. This will be the first meeting
of Asheville alumni and will be in the nature of an organization meeting. Alumni from Brevard, Black Mountain, Montreat, and
Hendersonville have been invited to attend the meeting and to affiliate with the Asheville association.

Friday evening will be spent at Greenville, S.C., where the alumni association will assist in a re-organization of the Greenville
association. A banquet at Woodside Grill has been arranged by Mr. F. K. Spratt, of the class of ’04, former
president of the Greenville Association.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Mr. John D. Baker, Jr., ’24, will be married to Miss Alice Bernice Yorke, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Alexander
Robinson Howard, of Concord, N.C., early in January, according to announcements received at the college early this week. The marriage
of Mr. Baker and Miss York marks the culmination of a romance begun when he was a student at Davidson
College and which has been continued since his graduation, notwithstanding the distance separating the prospective bride and groom. Miss York
is one of the state’s most charming and popular girls. Mr. Baker, who is a member of the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon fraternity and one of the most popular young business men of Tampa, Florida, is associated with his father in
the lumber business, having been recently placed in charge.Charge of the Tampa office of the firm. Mr. Marvin LeGrand Rozelle,
’04, was unexpectedly married to Miss Rachel Summerow, Tuesday morning, November 22nd, at 11 o’clock. The marriage ceremony was performed
by Dr. A. A. McGeachy, ’99, from his bed—to which he has been confined for several weeks with illness. Only
members of the two families were present. Mrs. Rozelle is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. B. J. Summerow, and
one of Charlotte’s most gifted singers. She studied at Queens College, Greensboro College for Women, and at Eastman School of
Music. Mr. Rozelle is a resident of Salisbury, where he is engaged in the real estate, lumber, and finance businesses.
Mr. and Mrs. Rozelle will make their home at Salisbury.

“Doc” Lafar is Chosen to Head Gaston Alumni
W. R. Sparrow is Elected Secretary-Treasurer at Lively Banquet in Gastonia

D. R. Lafar, ’22, was elected president, and W. R. Sparrow, '27, was chosen secretary-treasurer of the Gaston County Alumni
Association last Saturday night, when the Davidson alumni in Gastonia and adjoining cities entertained the 1927 football team. They succeeded
Coit M. Robinson, ‘10, and H. A. Query, ’00, respectively.

The Gaston County association continued the precedent set several years ago by being the first local organization to entertain Davidson’s
gridiron warriors. In addition to the football team and coaches, other guests included Dr. J. P. Matheson, ’99, president of
the General Alumni Association; F. L. Jackson, '06, treasurer of the college; W. W. Wood, graduate manager of athletics; Harllee
Branch, Jr., ’27, assistant alumni secretary, and Earnest Milton, ’26, alumni secretary.

Many of the alumni present made remarks during the evening, the trend of the discussions being along the line of
athletics. Most noticeable was the commendation of the two Davidson coaches, not a single word being offered in criticism, though
the state schedule was unsuccessful.

WINSTON-SALEM (Continued from page 1)

With the majesty of self-renunciation and self-dedication to the cause of God, Jesus laid Himself on the altar of service
for the welfare of humanity. We must seek to make our life one of sacrifice rather than of mere ease
and enjoyment. In the service of God through the church, we can help to solve some of the great problems
now confronting the world. He is counting on us; we must not fail Him.

Jeff Garrison—“Say, fresh, cut that out.”
Fresh David—“Aw, be yourself—but don’t crawl.”

No use trying to put a definition around Camel. It is as diverse and fugitive as the delicate tastes and
fragrances that Nature puts in her choicest tobaccos, of which Camel is rolled. Science aids Nature to be sure by
blending the tobaccos for subtle smoothness and mildness. One way to describe Camels is just to say, “They are good!”
Somehow, news of Camel has got around. At any rate, it’s first—in popularity as well as quality. It has beaten
every record ever made by a smoke. Modern smokers have lifted it to a new world leadership. Camels request a
place in your appreciation. Try them upon every test known. You'll find them always loyal to your highest standard. “Have
a Camel!”

REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C. © 1927
