THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1927

Old Friend of Davidson

ATTENTION SUBSCRIBERS

Mixed in with the freshmen and the faculty of Davidson at the freshman reception given by the Y. M. C.
A. Monday

Interesting Facts Concerning Freshman Class Comes From Office of Registrar

Complete reports coming from the office of F. W. Hengeveld, registrar of the college, reveal the fact that 211 Freshmen
have been matriculated for the 1926-27 session. Of this number, the science courses claim the larger part. There are 124
men seeking Bachelor of Science degrees, while 82 will work for Bachelor of Arts degrees. It is found that of
the 211 Freshmen, 110 are supporting themselves either entirely or partially, and that at least a score more plan to
find employment at the earliest possible time. This class, then, is shown to have a greater percentage of self-supporting students
than any other class that has enrolled for some years past. A great many of the remaining members of the
body are being aided by loans from various student loan funds, to be repaid when the students have been graduated
from college. These sums are included in the group of 110 self-supporting students, which also includes the class's lone co-ed,
who is entirely independent of help.

Three men were nominated: Frank Brown Wins Sophomore Office

Last Monday morning at a meeting of the Sophomore class, Frank R. Brown was elected to the office of Secretary-Treasurer.
E. F. Heifner, Frontis Johnston, and Frank R. Brown were nominated, with the ballot resulting in Brown’s election. At the
election of the rising Sophomore class last spring, W. O. Dobbins was elected Secretary-Treasurer. Because of the failure of Dobbins
to return to Davidson this year, another election was necessary to fill the vacant office. The Sophomore class officers are:
Carl Pritchett, president; Tom Brohard, vice-president; and Frank Brown, secretary-treasurer. This being the first class meeting of the year, no
other business was taken up other than the election of the secretary-treasurer, but the class has many things planned which
will be taken up and acted upon at a meeting in the near future. Class banquet and the completion of
a few matters carried over from last year are some of the things to be discussed by the class. In
connection with the “Quips and Cranks,” a class historian will have to be elected, but this will probably not be
done until late in the fall of the year.

Colonel Rowell Transferred to Vancouver, Wash., for Service

Colonel Rowell, of the Fourth Corps Area, has been transferred to Vancouver, Washington, to command the Seventh Infantry. Colonel Rowell
during the past has been a great friend of Davidson. At the summer camps, he would point out the Davidson
men as examples to the others and a fine example of how the men should support the R. O. T.
C. unit. Only the last two years, Colonel Rowell has been largely responsible for the “D. C.” award that this
unit won. He first recommended that Davidson College’s R. O. T. C. unit be inspected by the War Department inspectors
and secondly gave the officers in charge here constructive criticism and much information concerning the nature of the inspection. Colonel
Rowell was probably the greatest friend to the R. O. T. C. unit here and about this distinguished officer the
students should know something. At the age of 18, he was...

A review of the vocations chosen by the Freshmen shows that the largest number wish to be doctors or surgeons.
This profession will claim 38 of the class. The ministry and business have the next largest following, with 26 each;
three others have chosen lives as foreign missionaries. Fifteen members are training for the bar. Eleven are expecting to teach
when they are graduated. Nine of the class are planning to be engineers; two will be architects, and each of
the following professions has at least one or more aspirants: Forestry, chemical research, accounting, journalism, navigation, farming, dentistry, banking, and
bookkeeping. One wishes to enter into a career as a naturalist and another as an author. The remaining 65 Freshmen
have made no definite choice as to life work, but past experience shows that a greater part of these will
enter business.

Although Davidson is primarily a Presbyterian institution, the new Freshman class has, together with 159 Presbyterians, representatives of virtually all
Protestant denominations. The Methodists lead among the other denominations with 25 adherents, while the Baptists have 12. There are also
members of the Episcopal, Hebrew, Christian, Friends, and Associate Reformed Churches. Only six students out of 211 are not affiliated
with any church.

Davidson has within her doors this year Freshmen from 18 states and two foreign countries. North Carolina has 133 men
enrolled. South Carolina and Georgia each have 15 sons here. The following is the tabulation for the other states: Virginia,
8; West Virginia, 7; Tennessee, 6; Florida, 5; Kentucky and Alabama, 4 each. The remaining states represented are: Mississippi, Missouri,
Louisiana, Pennsylvania, Texas, Arkansas, Ohio, Connecticut, and the District of Columbia. The two foreign students are from Korea and Cuba.

The average age of the Davidson Freshmen this year is 17, but one is 27 years of age; two others
are 25, but three have just passed their 15th birthdays. The solitary co-ed, with typical womanliness, declined to divulge her
age.

CHARLOTTE PASTOR (Continued from page 1)

moral earnestness. Whatever a man might be, if there is a lack of moral earnestness, there is a lack of
character. A man might not succeed in all of his attempts, but if he has moral earnestness behind the undertaking,
the man will be the more respected for it. The last thing is the lack of spiritual power. No doubt,
the speaker said, every man on the campus was a member of some...

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE — THE BEST OF COOKING Charlotte, N.C.

Town News

W. A. Christian, one of the outstanding men of the class of 1927, spent the weekend in Davidson. During the
past four years, “Bill” has participated in many student activities, one of his many honors having been the presidency of
the Y. M.C. A. also a member of Phi Beta Kappa Fraternity, having received this honor last year. It is
with great regret that we see “Bill” leave, but we wish him all success in his work at Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond. Quite a few of the young ladies of Davidson will be leaving for school in the next
few days, some of them in this state, others farther afield. Among these are: The Misses Charlotte Hunter and Adele
Arbuckle, who will attend Agnes Scott; Misses Letitia and Lucy Martin Currie, leaving for Salem College; Misses Jean and Kitty
Martin, students at the University of Kentucky; Misses Catherine Porter and Sara Barnette, taking up their work at the North
Carolina College for Women; Misses Mary Hamilton, Jane Richards, and Sara Withers, who will attend Converse; and Miss Elizabeth Fry,
who will attend Mitchell College this year. Those who have missed Miss Jessie Averill, who is connected with the administration
offices of Davidson College, will be interested to know that she is spending a few days in Columbia, S. C.
Many of the older students of Davidson were agreeably surprised by a visit from their friend and former professor, J.
C. Bailey, who was passing through Davidson on his way to Johns Hopkins University, where he will continue his study
of Greek. Mr. McDowell Richards, who has just completed his first year at Columbia Theological Seminary, left this week to
continue his course at that institution. Before entering the Seminary, Mr. Richards spent three years at Oxford University, where he
was a Rhodes Scholar. Dr. Watts entertained at his home last Sunday night several members of the Freshman class. Refreshments
were served, and an enjoyable evening was spent.

To many it was only the outward conformity to certain rules, but what was the feeling at heart? Until a
man exhibits a real spirituality, he does not mean much to the enrichment of his own life and that of
others. These things are what face the college man of today. The man that says he does not have temptations
is fooling himself. The man who can throw off the lighter temptations can throw off the heavier ones, too, when
Satan increases the pressure. Dr. Johnson continued by saying that those temptations that came from without were bad, but those
that come from within were worse. No man has to seek temptation. And in conclusion, Dr. Johnson said that man
cannot fight these temptations by means of resolutions made within himself. He then cited the tragic instance of a young
man who tried to do it. We must have assistance from above. God and Jesus Christ are the ones to
aid us in the battle of life and without them we can do nothing.

To smoke wisely and well, choose Camels. The man that says he does not have temptations is fooling himself. But
the man who can throw off the lighter temptations can throw off the heavier ones, too, when Satan increases the
pressure. By a special act of Congress, he was appointed second lieutenant in the U. S. Army. The regulations are
that one must be 21 years old before becoming a commissioned officer, but he was appointed because of his ability
to efficiently perform his duties then. His R.O.T.C. work has been as extensive as any other officer in the Army.
He was one of the first to be connected with such work actively and was the first P.M.S. & T.
at Alabama Polytechnic Institute (Auburn). The effects of his work are still there in that they have held the War
Department's distinguished rating since 1920. When he left there he was closely connected with the R.O.T.C. while on duty with
the War Department and later was assigned to the Fourth Corps Area as R.O.T.C. officer. He filled this office splendidly
and now goes to Vancouver. The best wishes and friendly feeling of the Davidson College R.O.T.C. unit go with him
to his new post.

In last week’s copy of The Davidsonian, an announcement was made that all persons desiring to subscribe to The Davidsonian
should send their names and addresses together with 25 cents to P. J. Garrison, Davidson, N. C. This should have
read, "Send your name and address together with $2.50." This error was due to a mistake of the printers, and
all subscribers are asked to take notice and when they send in their subscriptions to please remit $2.50, so that
there will be no delay in getting their subscription started at once. All alumni and subscribers are urged to send
in their subscriptions at once so as to be able to keep up with campus news from the very start.

Among those attending were Rev. W. C. Brown, '93, of Barium Springs; J. B. Johnston, '01, of Barium Springs; W.
H. Moore, '23, who has just returned from a four years’ sojourn in Japan, and was en route to Harvard;
Willard Keerans, ex '27, of Charlotte; Johnny Adams, '23, who is attending Jefferson Medical School at Philadelphia; Bob Stowe, '24,
of Belmont; J. R. Schenck, '22, of Salisbury; and D. R. LaFar, '22, of Gastonia.

FELLOWS! You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, Davidson, N. C.

A cordial invitation is extended to all Davidson men to visit us for prompt, efficient, and courteous work.

THAD L. TATE BARBER SHOP
S. College St.
Charlotte, N.C.

There’s an irresistible reason for choosing this famous cigarette. Not for its popularity alone, but for that superior quality that
produces it. Camel wins its prestige with modern smokers by forthright value. It is rolled of the choicest tobaccos that
money can buy, and its blending is the taste and fragrance triumph of tobacco science. The Camel smoker is tobacco
fit. He has the best, with no scrimping or denial of cost. Select Camel for smoking pleasure, and you'll join
distinguished company. Particular, modern smokers have elected it on the principle of superiority. “Have a Camel!”

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C. © 1927
