: THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 15, 1927

Assorted List of Books

New Freshman Regulations Made by Court of Control

In addition to the freshman regulations which were in effect last year, the Court of Control this year has added
several rules. These rules have been added for the good of the freshmen and the upper-classmen. The new rules are
as follows:

1. Freshmen shall carry matches at all times.
2. Freshmen must be in attendance 15 minutes early at all major athletic events, and remain throughout the entire contest.
3. Freshmen are required to wear the Y. M. C. A. name-plate until Thanksgiving.
4. Freshmen must carry to all athletic contests the megaphone prescribed by the Court of Control.

The rule concerning the carrying of matches is in effect in many colleges throughout the country and is a helpful
one in that an upper-classman will generally give the freshman whom he stops the “once over,” and will very likely
know him the next time he passes him on the campus. It also produces a friendly feeling between the upper-classman
and the freshman. When the fateful lucifer is being searched for, the “fresh” will grin sheepishly as he goes from
pocket to pocket, the grin fading to a look of alarm as he vainly chases the elusive match; this in
turn changing to a happy smile as he produces one from his left back pocket, where he had put it
in order not to forget where he had put it.

The rule concerning attendance at athletic contests is of utmost importance. When a team starts off a game to a
burst of thunderous applause, the fellows feel mighty good. They know that every man in the student body is behind
them lending their moral support, and more; they know that every man will be there at the end of the
game. Megaphones are a supplement to this rule and are a material aid in the important matter of cheering.

The name-plates serve to identify the first-year man, both to his own classmates and to the upper-classmen as well. Names
which are read do not pass so quickly from the mind as do those which are heard. When you are
introduced to “Mr. (meaningless jumble)” you do not know any more than you did when you started. But when you
read the name “Jones, H. A.,” you are at once very sure that his name is neither Brown nor Smith.

The Court of Control wants the freshmen to understand from the very beginning that they are here to help the
freshmen in any way it is possible, but that they are also here to punish a freshman who has broken
a rule. The miscreant will be given some task by which he will be made to see his mistake. Any
upper-classman having a complaint against a freshman will be required to write out his complaint and hand it in so
that the Court of Control will have something definite to work on. Everything will be handled in a businesslike way,
and it is hoped that equal justice will be meted out to both freshmen and upperclassmen.

College Property Greatly Improved

As old Davidson opened its doors for another year, the campus, famous and full of traditional lore, also began a
new era of growth and improvement. All summer long the grounds have been under preparation for the school year. Spots
that were bare before are now covered with a fine carpet of grass, the trees, as a result of their
pruning last spring, are in excellent condition, and a drive around the historic old “D” reveals a beautiful sight. Richardson
Field is looking better than ever. It is doubtful if any school in the country has a finer stand of
grass for its athletic field. The “freshman practice field,” too, is covered with grass which will be the foundation for
a splendid turf in a few years.

As Dr. Martin said in chapel on the opening day, hundreds of dollars have been spent during the past summer
in an effort to enhance the beauty of the college grounds, and the prospect is that the coming months will
see many more improvements of a varied nature.

The campus, however, has not been the only place of progress. The dormitories, notably East and West, have been thoroughly
renovated on the inside, and it is needless to say how much this step has done to create and strengthen
a good impression for the college.

Twenty-five new tennis courts are under construction at the rear of the campus. The completion of this work is eagerly
awaited by all, since a crying need of the college has been more space for tennis, a sport that is
becoming more popular every day. The old courts on the south side of Chambers will be leveled off to make
way for the grass terrace which will soon be sloping away on that side of the magnificent building.

TUDOR HALL FALL SUITS $29.50 and $35

Styled from a young man’s point of view, Tudor Hall designing and fabrics introduce you to the higher standards of
College style. The prices never lead you into the realms of higher mathematics. At a modest price, Tudor Hall offers
excellent models for young men on and off the campus. Many exclusive weaves---the kind you admire at first glance and
keep admiring as the days go by.

Belk Bros. Co.
Where College Men Trade
Charlotte, N.C.

New Books Procured by Library

New Books Purchased to Supplement Departments

During the past vacation season, the Davidson College library has added several new and very interesting volumes to its store
of books. Such men as Roy Chapman Andrews, Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick, Carl Snyder, and other writers known the world
over are some of the authors of the new books. There was very little fiction bought by the library this
past summer, most of the books being bought with the idea of filling out various departments of the library. Books
on the various branches and different lines of business were predominant. There were, however, quite a few volumes concerning philosophy,
and several works on chemistry and other branches of science were bought, due perhaps to the rising interest in things
scientific.

“Twelve Tests of Character,” by Dr. Fosdick, the man who has been characterized as one of the spiritual leaders of
America, is written with the same clear vision and compelling sincerity that won millions of readers for his earlier books,
and the topic is as broad as humanity itself.

Among the other worthwhile books stands “On the Trail of Ancient Man,” by Chapman Andrews. His description of a sojourn
in the Gobi desert of Mongolia, that remote land of painted deserts, nameless sun-capped peaks, untracked forests, and tempestuous streams,
is one that every student would do well to read.

“Integrity in Education and Other Papers,” by George Morlin, the president of the University of Colorado, is another book of
interest. Other such works and other such topics as “The Great Works of Art, and What Makes Them Great,” “The
Jesus of History,” by Glover, and “The Public Mind,” by Norman Angell, are found on the list of new books.

For the benefit of the few who may not know, the Davidson College library was first formed in 1841, when
it had 231 books. In 1860 the library was given a room in Chambers, at which time it had about
2,000 volumes. When Chambers burned in 1921, over 10,000 library volumes were lost. Andrew Carnegie then gave the college its
present excellent plant, and at present the library has over 22,000 books and receives 117 periodicals.

Ticket Booth Given

In making its parting gift to Davidson, the class of 1927 accomplished a noble deed and established a memorial that
will stand for many years as an emblem of love and respect from Davidson's sons to their Alma Mater. The
new ticket booth which was erected outside the new Richardson Stadium is a well-nigh perfect gift, filling a need that
the erection of the Stadium revealed. The little brick structure is located halfway between the entrance to the stadium itself
and the bleacher entrance, thus providing a central point for the distribution of tickets and being at a convenient point
for everyone to enter the stadium.new edifice. Davidson men should be proud of their campus, its natural advantages, and material
fixtures. The coming year will witness a still greater and more beautiful Davidson, provided that the student body shows its
traditional spirit and enters into college life with the idea of building up rather than destroying the things that are
here for its use and enjoyment. This is a very vivid book that all red-blooded people would do well to
read. It has attracted the keen interest of the thinkers of this country and is a worthy and enduring gift
from a class of '27 as Memorial. This hand

R. O. T. C. UNIT SHOWS BRIGHT PROSPECTS FOR THIS YEAR

Civil War Veteran Graduated in 1865

Gen. William A. Smith, hero of the War Between the States, and a graduate of Davidson in the class of
1865, was the honor-guest last April at the fourth of a series of annual picnics, inaugurated several years ago by
members of the Mecklenburg Camp, United Confederate Veterans, in honor of the aged Confederate leader. The picnic was staged at
General Smith’s beautiful plantation home at Ansonville, N. C., known as “The Oaks,” and was the fourth of a series
of picnics which will continue as long as General Smith is alive to receive the homage of his former comrades
in gray. The picnics, according to newspaper accounts, are much after the fashion of a reunion, except for the fact
that the guest lists are more restricted. General Smith’s home, the scene of these intimate and enjoyable feasts, is set
back in a spacious grove, being in size and magnificence of trees a rare survival of colonial times. The home
itself is a survivor of the finer types of ancestral homes, now so seldom encountered. General and Mrs. Smith met
the guests at the large front door of their home and turned both house and grounds over to them. Long
tables, set on the terraces of the front lawn, were set and around these the guests spent more than two
hours in feast and oratory. General Smith was seated at the head of the table and Gen. A. H. Boyden,
of the 1st Brigade, C. S. A., was toastmaster. Among the speakers who eulogized the war-time record of General Smith
and other Confederate leaders was the editor of the Charlotte Observer, Wade H. Harris; Maj. W. C. Heath, of Monroe;
Chaplain Conrad, of Charlotte; Shakespeare Harris, of Concord, an old Confederate; Capt. John Gormley, of Charlotte; and Miss Irwin Paylor,
of Thomasville, assistant to the adjutant general of the Mecklenburg Camp. Approximately 15 veterans of the Civil War, their wives,
and daughters were included among the guests.

Smith was born in Ansonville, N. C., in 1843, and entered Davidson College in 1860. He withdrew to enter the
army of the Confederacy and was wounded in the service. He returned to the college in 1863 and was graduated
in the class of 1865. He was a member of the Phi Literary Society during his college days.

C. E. T. C. Interests Several New Men from School

The Christian Endeavor Training Class held its first meeting of the year in Shearer Hall, Sunday afternoon at 1:45. The
attendance was unusually large and included a good number of new men. A short introductory and devotional program was led
by its president, Bob Covington, and was followed by a short talk of welcome and explanation of the history and
aims of the society. The Training Class is one of the smaller of the religious organizations on the Hill, but
has a very definite program of service. The objects of the class are twofold: to study Christian Endeavor methods and
problems, and to serve the young people’s societies in the church nearby by a series of deputations. The class offers
a cordial invitation to all men who are interested in this work and feels that it offers ample opportunity for
definite religious services on the campus.

Built in approved style, harmonizing perfectly with the nearby stadium and adding a finishing touch to the outside appearance of
Richardson Field. As thousands of spectators crowd their way past the booth and on into the field to watch our
Wildcats in their drive for another championship, they cannot help but notice the beauty and efficiency of the ticket booth,
true Davidson men. A cordial welcome is extended to the new men as well as the old by WHITE DRUG
COMPANY DAVIDSON, N. C.

This year promises to be the best that the R. O. T. C. unit has ever known. The competent staff
of instructors, a capable body of cadet officers, and the fine spirit which characterizes the unit as a whole should
again enable us to win the distinguished rating which Davidson has won for the past two years. The staff of
instructors are: Captain Daugherty, who will have charge of the Sophomores; Captain Elkins, the Seniors; Lieutenant Otto, the Juniors; and
Lieutenant Beckett, the Freshmen. John A. Otto has just finished the officers’ training course at Fort Benning. He is a
graduate of Texas A. & M. College. Lieutenant Beckett is still in the hospital in Washington, D. C., recovering from
an operation, but he is expected back on September 20th. Captain Weems, who so admirably brought the Davidson battalion to
its present standing, is at the Command and Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Texas.

There will be an unusually large R. O. T. C. unit this year as there will be 27 Seniors, 40
Juniors (the largest group of Juniors ever electing the advanced course), 155 Sophomores, and 190 Freshmen. The band will be
larger than last year, with 27 old men and 24 freshmen. The instruments will be issued the latter part of
this week. Mr. Callum, the new music professor, will take a special interest in the band. Due to his instruction,
the band will not devote its time entirely to marches, but will probably play a greater variety of concert music.
Under the able direction of Captain Elkins and Mr. Cullum, the band will be one of the foremost organizations of
its kind in this section.

Last year the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit was again awarded the distinguished rating. Davidson was 92.43 percent efficient
against 89 percent for the preceding year. The states which comprise the fourth corps area are: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana,
Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee. In this area, there are 15 schools of this type, only six were
awarded the distinguished rating. There were 21 Davidson men at camp last summer. The Davidson men at Camp McClellan took
first place in rifle firing and third place in general rating for the entire camp. Six men were chosen for
the all-camp rifle team. Two of the men selected were Davidson men—Lake and Taylor. Wednesday, the organized four-company recruit drill
started, with the Sophomores and Juniors acting as drill masters. The parades and other ceremonies will start by October 15th
at the latest. Davidson's military unit has a record to be proud of and according to the outlook for the
coming year, the battalion will eclipse the enviable record of previous years.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS HONORED (Continued from page one)

Flora Macdonald College; Miss Katherine Tighe, of Asheville, N. C. C. W.; and Miss Hattie Rodwell, of Macon, N. C.,
N. C. C. W. Among the other institutions receiving honorable mention were Smith College, University of Indiana, Yale, College of
the City of New York, Wellesley College, University of Virginia, Randolph-Macon College, Harvard, Hampden-Sydney, University of Buffalo, Cornell, Colgate, University
of Wisconsin, Stanford University, University of California, University of Oklahoma, Mercer University, Agnes Scott, and Northwestern University.

THREE SENIORS ELECTED (Continued from page one)

The men who are elected to the board this year need no introduction to the student body, for all are
Seniors and well known on the campus. Boyce Martin is editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian, poetry editor of the Chameleon, was
vice-president of the Junior class of '27, and was Junior Week chairman last year. He is a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. D. W. Hancock is the editor-in-chief of the Quips and Cranks. He was historian of the
present Senior class in its Junior year and was prominent in the work of his class at Junior Speaking last
year. He is also a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. W. L. Lingle has been engaged in literary work
on The Davidsonian and the Chameleon ever since his entry at Davidson. He was Freshman football manager last year and
was chairman of the Committee on General Arrangements for Junior Week last year. He is a member of Beta Theta
Pi social fraternity. All of these men are members of Delta Pi Kappa, the honorary journalistic fraternity.
