THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1927

Dr. Martin Suffers Attack of Neuritis

Dr. W. J. Martin has been confined to his home for the past week following a rather severe attack of neuritis. His condition is much improved now, however, and he will soon be able to resume his regular duties. His condition was enough improved last Sunday so that he was able to attend church.

State Volunteer Praise Accorded Writer

The annual state convention of the Student Volunteer Bands of the leading colleges of North Carolina will be held on the 18th and 19th of this month. Elon College, Elon, N.C., will be the host on this occasion. This convention is held each year and is of especial interest to students who have devoted themselves to volunteer work. Last year Greensboro College for Women was the place of the convention. Several Davidson men attended and reported much benefit. Among the schools that will send delegates are: Duke University, Greensboro College for Women, Queens College, and Davidson.

NOTED GERMAN LECTURER (Continued from page 1)

Samuel Pepys—that grand old diary man who cranked out in the course of nine eventful years a tragi-comic drama of life—deserves more attention among college men than he is usually given. To judge from the minor place accorded him in our high falutin’ anthologies of English literature, a person would think poor Pepys’ well-known but little-known collection of daily life-slices is still lying around the Pepys Library at Magdalene College. Magdalene College is pronounced Mauldin College and is a part of jolly old Cambridge. Mr. Pepys bequeathed the Pepys Library to his alma mater.

The Vocational Guidance Institute is underway and is arousing a great deal of interest in the student body. The next professional man to come here will be Dr. M. C. S. Noble, former Professor of Psychology at Davidson, and also at U.N.C., now connected with the State Department of Education, who will speak on Education and Teaching in general. All those who intend to take up teaching as their life work or even expect to teach for only a year or two are urged to attend and hear Dr. Noble. Take advantage of this expert advice and hear this teacher.

Have you read “The Meaning of Faith,” or perhaps “The Dynamic of Manhood?” If you haven't read these excellent books, drop by the “Y” room and look them over. They are only good samples of the great variety of good books on sale there.

The political revolution of the new Germany took place in October 1918. The common danger of Russian Communism was the common interest which from the very day of the November revolution united the two personalities who saved Germany and Europe from Bolshevism disorder, Ebert—at that time labor leader and Hindenburg—at that time army leader. It was Ebert's historical mission to win over the laboring classes to the new state of a democratic republic, and it is Hindenburg’s historical mission to win over the bourgeoisie.

Hindenburg is like the American General Wake Forest, alone. As a matter of fact, the actual diary is well preserved in six leather-bound octavo volumes which stand on the shelves of the Pepys Library at Magdalene College, in the finely written shorthand manuscript.

Many brilliant and noted men will speak during this meeting. These talks will be upon the problems of the Student Volunteer Movement throughout the country. Missionary work will be particularly stressed.

Among the Davidson students who have signified their intention of attending are: Kenneth Forbes, J. M. Andrews, and W. B. Rice. Koontz will make a report before the cabinet of the Milwaukee Conference, which he attended.tended recently. All who are interested in the work of the “Y” or would like to know something of the activities of such a national conference as this, are invited to remain at this public meeting of the cabinet.

A Thought for the Week: “The highest type of Christian faith is not the open vision, not some hour of rapt contemplation, but the recognition of the presence of Christ in daily work, the consciousness that as a man goes on and tries to do his work Christ is with him, and that the rewards of his labor come from Him.” Can we not hold a thought such as this before us as we go about our assigned tasks?

GRID STARS OUT

Two of the mainstays of this year’s Freshman football squad are on the sick and injured list instead of the list of those who are turning out daily for spring practice. Allan DeCamp is in the Charlotte Sanatorium recovering from an operation for appendicitis and T. R. Carson is out of the game with a broken leg. Carson was a member of the Gastonia High championship team and was a regular tackle on the Freshman team. He was the first casualty of the regular spring practice and suffered the ill fortune of breaking his leg early in the practice last week. The small bone is broken just above the ankle. DeCamp’s operation was rather serious and certain complications were feared. He is recovering swiftly, however, and will soon be able to return to school.

Miss Sarah Lingle visited her parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle, for several days during the past week. Miss Lingle is teaching at Converse College, in Spartanburg.

After “Y” Sunday night, neighboring and adjoining states.

“And the Treaty of Versailles has divided Europe into more so-called national states than ever existed, thirty-seven instead of twenty-five.

“Not one of these states was built on economic efficiency, but political urgency. Not one of these new states is a homogeneous state of one nation; each one is composed of various nationalities and minorities.

“Germany is the most internationally located nation of the world. This situation has created the political philosophy of the new Germany and of ‘Europeanism,’ of inter-European interdependence and mutual co-operation. These are the underlying tendencies of the American Dawes scheme (the life insurance of Germany), the Locarno system (the mutual life insurance of the European powers), the League of Nations at Geneva (the new international machinery), and the meeting of Thoiry (the French-German rapprochement). So the hard way of Germany became a European headway and may become an international highway.”

VERNON S. BROYLES

QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES

Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see

There will now be a show of hands of those who have always held Pepys in their mind’s eye as an old man, decrepit to a certain extent but despite his feebleness inclined toward gaiety—a gay old codger, to use plain college English. Correct! There is, you will notice, almost a 100 percent elevation of five digited apo-terra appendages.

We of the negative side shall sweep away this befuddling cobweb. For Samuel Pepys wrote his famous diary between, and including, the years 1660 and 1669. He was born in 1633. Therefore, he wrote the diary between his 27th and 36th years. Not so old, was he? Now go to the “young Pepys’” diary and enjoy Pepys’ escapades. This is the record of a young college graduate’s eventful life—not a dry, pitiful account of middle-aged misbehavior.

In paragraph one, Most Gentle Reader, perhaps you went astray on account of the apparent lack of logic. The point is that although the original manuscript in Pepys’ own system of shorthand does exist today, yet there have been several excellent Queens’ English editions published. A certain John Smith, an undergrad of St. John’s College, devoted three years of his life, working 12 hours a day, on the complete transcription of the diary. He complained that the job was “very trying and injurious to the visual organs.”

Everything a good Drug Store can supply

WHITE DRUG COMPANY DAVIDSON, N. C.

And now, having prefaced the diary itself with a few cursory remarks regarding the youthfulness and youthful enthusiasm of Mr. Samuel Pepys, this prefacer will ask the Gentle Reader to read some more in “Everybody's Pepys” or some other good edition of the diary. He shall leave you resting in peace while he also continues to become acquainted with the life of Samuel Pepys from 1660 through 1669.

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU

Drinks Candy Austin Candy Shop Statesville, N. C.

Dr. McConnell, as secretary of the State Board of Medical Examiners, along with other members of that body, protested strenuously and were successful in preventing the passage of this amendment.

DR. McCONNELL SPEAKS

Dr. J. W. McConnell made an address last week before the State Legislature at Raleigh opposing an amendment to the Medical Practices Act. The proposed amendment would have permitted revoked licenses to be renewed.

Smokes

WHEN IN STATESVILLE CALL ON US FOR YOUR BARBER SHOP WANTS

DEBATING TRYOUTS (Continued from page 1)

them may be obtained from Miss Shaw, the librarian. A meet with Emory University, of Atlanta, is pending and will probably be arranged within a few days. This debate has been held during the fall season during the past few years.

Commercial Barber Shop Statesville, N. C.

Buy Your Suit or Overcoat Now! There is nothing so unusual about a $35 suit or overcoat, but when you buy one that formerly sold for $50, $55 or even $60 for $35 then there is something unusual about it---it’s a value! We’re offering values like that right now in suits and overcoats made by Braeburn, Hart, Schaffner & Marx and Hickey-Freeman.

MELLON’S CHARLOTTE, N. C.