eevee mr ee o yy HE. PAVIDSONIAM, MAY, 5, 197.. Ot ene Pere ee Coe arene PN HG Ne NRA OS Mee:

Freshmen Respond to Call for Two Teams to Debate Carolina

The Freshmen responded voluminously to a call for debaters to meet the University of North Carolina. The men of the group of twenty-two, to make the team, were A. T. Edelman, J. C. Williams, F. D. Miller, and Murray Christian, with W. J. Beavers and C. R. Pritchett, alternates. The subject of the debates is, Resolved: that the United States should cancel the Interallied war debts. The debate will probably be held the first of next week, the exact time to be announced later.

The affirmative will be upheld in Shearer Hall by F. D. Miller, who won first place, and by J. C. Williams, who placed third. At the same time, Murray Christian, second place, and A. T. Edelman, fourth place, will make the trip to Chapel Hill and debate the negative side of the question with the affirmative team of Carolina.

The twenty-two Freshmen to try out were Gaffney, Russell, Pritchett, Mathews, Boag, Harrison, McGuire, Beavers, Williams, Hunter, Felmet, Perkerson, Best, Edelman, Christian, Pratt, Marsh, Millican. In this group of men, there is much promising material for future debaters and none of them are to be discouraged from trying for the varsity teams of the coming years. The popular side of the question with this representative group of men was the negative, only five men speaking on the affirmative.

The purpose of the fresh debating teams is to prepare prospective varsity debaters for the task they will have in the following three years of upholding Davidson as a forensic college. The men who have made the teams are being assisted in their preparation by Don Wharton and Harllee Branch, both of whom are well acquainted with the subject, having debated it four times this year. It has been the custom for several years for the Davidson and Carolina Fresh to clash. In the past three years, 18 votes have been cast between the two schools and 16 of these have gone to Davidson. The Freshmen have, therefore, quite a record to maintain. Carolina has the two state champion men of last year and the decision will be closely contested, so it is desired that as many students as possibly can will come out to the Fresh debate and support the team with their presence.

Murray Christian is from Mobile, Ala. He reports no previous experience, but if he has any of that Christian blood in him, he is bound to come out on the right end. “Alex” Edelman is from Goldsboro, N. C. Last year he won over the Columbia High School in debate. J. C. Williams comes from Hinden, N. C. He has debated quite extensively in high school. F. D. Miller, of Rogersville, Tenn., has had no previous experience in debating but reports a few victories in the field of oratory.

Secretary Chosen by Rising Juniors

Election of officers for the rising Junior class was completed recently when Nelson Myers was elected as secretary-treasurer for 1928. Myers won his position over a field of three. The final ballot found the position contested between Dick Kane and Nelson Myers. Dave Fleming was eliminated on a former ballot. The other officers for next year’s Juniors will be Mac King, president of the class, and Bill Bailey, vice-president. Both of these men are prominent in campus life. King is also vice-president-elect of the student body. He is a Kappa Alpha fraternity man and is noted for his athletic abilities. Bailey is a member of the Wildcat track team for this year. He is also a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Nelson Myers, secretary-treasurer-elect, is also a leader on the campus. Myers, who is a Sigma Alpha Epsilon, holds many honors. He is a member of the Beaver’s club, Sophomore honor society. Myers is a wearer of the D. C. monogram, having won it in football. Until he was laid up with a bad ankle, Myers was bidding strong for a position on the varsity track team. He is a pole vaulter and half-miler.

Business Staff of Chameleon Named

The business staff of the Chameleon was announced Tuesday, April 26, by Charlie Trabue, the business manager. His selection is as follows: H. A. Knox, Jr., and C. H. Mauzy, assistant managers on the Annual, and Gil McManaway.business managers, and M. T. Gilmour, circulation manager. These men should be of great assistance to him since all have had experience in literary work, Knox and Gilmour having served as editors, and Gilmour having worked on the Chameleon during the past year. Besides the work with which they are now connected, all three are interested in various campus activities. Gilmour will serve as a member of the “Y” cabinet and of the Court of Control for the coming year, while Mauzy is one of the assistant managers of football.

Wildkittens Lose to Tarheel Fresh

Last Thursday, April 28, the Davidson Fresh were defeated in the ninth inning by the Carolina Fresh by the score of 10 to 7, in the second game of their trip. In the eighth inning, the score was 7 to 6 in favor of Davidson, but in the ninth, the Tar Babies made a sensational rally, bringing in a three-run lead which the Wildkittens were unable to overcome.

The otherwise fast game was shot through with countless errors by both teams, and the score zig-zagged back and forth through the first eight innings of the game, neither team being able to gain a substantial lead over the other. But in the fatal ninth, Carolina made four runs, due to errors on the part of the visitors and heavy hitting on the part of the home team.

Miller and Kilgore were the outstanding players of the Davidson warriors, both lads chalking up two hits apiece, while the star of the Tar Baby nine was Sinclair, who clouted out three one-base hits. The box score:

Carolina
AB R H PO A
Adkins, 1b 5 2 2 5 0
Bunch, 2b 5 2 2 2 0
Maus, c 5 2 2 2 0
Stewart, cf 5 2 2 2 0
Edwards, p 5 2 2 2 0
Totals 25 10 10 25 0

Davidson
Parrish, 2b 4 1 1 1 0
Williams, c 4 0 0 0 0
McConnell, lf 4 1 1 1 0
McInnis, rf 4 0 0 0 0
Hampton, p 4 0 0 0 0
Miller, ss 4 2 2 2 0
Prevost, 3b 4 0 0 0 0
Gladstone, 1b 4 1 1 1 0
Corron, cf 4 0 0 0 0
Totals 36 7 5 5 0

Summary—Sacrifice hit: McManaway; stolen bases: McManaway, Wall, Jackson.

Myers won from Kane by a close vote.

COLLEGE EDITORS
(Continued from page 1)

John Edgerton of the State treasurer, annual. The North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association was founded about six or seven years ago to foster friendship among the different college publications of the state. All college publications of the state members of the association send delegates to the semi-annual meetings. This semi-annual meeting has been held since the founding of the Association, the delegates assembling at one of the colleges to discuss financial matters, vote for the best paper of the year, and to choose officers. Last year, The Technician of N. C. State was adjudged the best college newspaper, and in 1924 and 1925, The Davidsonian was awarded this honor.

MODERN smokers are the most critical ever known, and Camel is their favorite. Why? Camel is the one cigarette that will stand up all day and as far into the night as you care to go. Modern, experienced smokers know that they can smoke one or a million Camels with never a tired taste or a cigaretty aftertaste. Present-day smokers demand goodness, and find it in Camels—the choicest tobaccos grown and matchless blending. That is why Camel is the favorite in the modern world. If you want the choice of the hardest-to-please smokers of all time, if you yearn for the mellowest mildness that ever came from a cigarette—“Have a Camel!”

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.

These moderns demand Camels.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI
TO SERVE YOU
Statesville, N. C.
In Statesville We Are Located
Austin Candy Shop
SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

CREDENZA, The New in the World
$300.00
213 N. Tryon St.

ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
Charlotte, N. C.