8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 13, 1927

New Invention to Accompany “Don Juan”

And then to sit there, as one of the audience, and feel the theatre vibrate to the thrill of a Vitaphone performance at the Broadway—well, it was something I'll never forget. “To me, Vitaphone is more than a mechanical invention. It is an expression, a materialization, of the things in this life. Here is something—I don't know what it is; it mystifies me—that will ultimately bring within the reach of everyone the world’s best music, the world’s best histrionic effort, the world’s greatest minds voicing their views.

“Imagine what this will do for music, not to mention acting! Frankly, I admit it would give a tremendous thrill to know that Paul Ash's and his 'merry-mad gang' were going throughout the world via the Vitaphone. True, I make phonograph records and play for the radio. But how much more personal, how much more direct would be a Paul Ash concert or accompaniment on the Vitaphone, showing in big and little cities, at cross-roads—everywhere. Composers and musicians, sensing this vast outlet for their efforts—seeing this opportunity for quick, worldwide recognition of their work—are going to be inspired to greater things.

“Vitaphone is the forerunner of a new era in bringing to the public—to the humble as well as the great—a new happiness, a new contract with the best things of this world. What more could be said for anything of the theatre? Happiness is the goal of life and anything that brings it to the multitude is a marvelous, heaven-sent thing. I place Vitaphone in that class.

“It is difficult for me to describe my feelings as I heard and saw this new marvel, Vitaphone.” Continuing, Ash said, “Only a short time ago, I, myself, was on that stage (McVickers Theatre, Chicago) with my orchestra and players. By Secretary Christmas

Milton Organizes Associations at Atlanta and Thomasville

During the holidays, two Davidson College alumni associations were organized. On the night of January 28th, the South Georgia-North Florida Alumni Association was perfected at an elaborate luncheon at Thomasville, Ga. At this meeting, J. E. Ward, ‘09, of Bainbridge, Ga., was elected president. Mr. Hansell Watt, ‘01, was elected vice-president, and Mr. J. J. Love, ‘19, of Quincy, Fla., secretary and treasurer. Remarks were made by most of the alumni present and interspersed with suggestions for the future of Davidson. Judge H. H. Merry, president of the Rotary Club of Thomasville, told of what the Davidson alumni were doing in his town. Hon. Louis Moore also made a short talk in which he gave praise to Davidson. Mr. J. J. Love brought up the matter of the football game next fall between Davidson and Florida. Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, made the closing remarks in which he told of changes at Davidson and how alumni could help. The association will meet semi-annually. Next time it will meet at Bainbridge, probably just before the opening of the college.

On January 3rd, an association including Decatur was formed in Atlanta. Dr. Bonar White, ‘10, was elected president; Mayor J. Scott Candler, ‘07, of Decatur, vice-president; and H. I. Askew, 1900, secretary and treasurer. The outstanding item discussed at this meeting was an objection to professors getting money from the Loyalty League fund with which to travel.

Alumni Chapters Formed

Mr. Wharton's book reviews surpass the representations of his writing found in the regular contributor’s section of the magazine. In the review section, there is ample leeway for the introduction of quotations and paraphrases from modern, ultra-modern, and older authors. “The Romantic Comedians” is especially good. And now to consider what are regarded by the reviewer as the most notable contributions in poetry and in prose. “Was It For Me,” by Mr. Martin, is the most worthwhile poem in the December issue. Small details add vividness to the seashore romance of Vannard, and the irony of the daughter's almost stock confession of love is well brought to the attention of Mr. Caligan’s audience. Mr. Caligan’s weakness in “Galba’s Daughter” is a leading toward the catalogue style of progression. And, too, there is danger of confusion in the extended and continuous use of the personal and possessive pronoun. The poetry from Mr. Caligan’s pen may be ticketed “up to par.” That par is high. Effective alliteration stands out in the last several lines of “Sea Isle.” “Far Past the Moon” is more of a Platonic dialogue than a modern one-act play form. It gives another twist to the widely discussed subject of time, space, and mortality. Well done, Mr. Austin. There is too much of the prosaic in Mr. Austin’s poetry. His field seems to lie in prose, where he shows marked skill. Mention of the contributors in the editorial portion of “The Chameleon” is a laudable addition to the magazine’s features. Certainly, the readers deserve to know all the writers—and the writers more than deserve a bit of personal notice. Mr. Matthews, a new contributor, has prospects of becoming THE Davidson poet of future years.Forth in by Caligan, in its outcome. Word selection the sentiment evident. Save it. Mr. Ogden’s is the only piece of atmosphere writing in “The Chameleon” that shows a genuinely credible knowledge of the subject and a satisfactory development of it. Such selections as “Five” make us proud of the Davidson magazine. One phrase from the impression will no doubt remind you of Mr. Ogden’s mastery of diction: “Five lines of solid, unreasoning stones.” When a man is as skillful in verse as Mr. Brittain, he merits publication even though he has transferred to another school. Such inclusions as “A Wilted Pansy” offer us something more than promise that “The Chameleon” is reaching for quality in an unbiased manner. Before closing, attention must be called to a book review by Mr. L. D. Wharton, Jr. Such men as Mr. Wharton are essential to a college publication. For few reviewers could present to fellow students an account of so novel a book as Lewis Browne's “Believing World.”

MOORESVILLE WEEK JAN. 17-22
Mon.-Tues., 17-18---One Increasing Purpose, with Edmund Lowe and Alma Rubens.
Wed., 19---“London,” with Dorothy Gish, (a Paramount picture.)
Thurs., 20---Her Man O’War, with Jetta Goudal and William Boyd.
Fri., 21st---The Blond Saint, with Lewis Stone and Doris Kenyon.
Sat., 22---Zane Grey’s “Man of the Forest,” with Jack Holt.

“The scope of Vitaphone is limitless. I can see the day when the best spoken dramas will be filmed and ‘vitaphoned’ and sent into the villages where the good things of the stage are unknown. The town hall will present the great actors and actresses and musicians before the eyes and ears of the astounded villagers. And they’ll be happier for it. Vitaphone multiplies the things that lead to rosier lives. I strongly urge everybody to give himself the experience of a Vitaphone performance. It is marvelous!”

DAVIDSON THEATRE DAVIDSON, N.C.
Mon. and Tues., 17th and 18th
The Blond Saint, a First National Picture
Wed. and Thurs., 19th and 20th
Mae Murray in Valencia, a Metro-Goldwyn Picture
Friday, 21st
Florence Vidor in The Popular Sin
Saturday, 22nd
Ken Maynard in The Overland Stage, a First National Special

Announcing the Opening of VITAPHONE IN CONNECTION WITH JOHN BARRYMORE’S LATEST PRODUCTION --- DON JUAN ---
Thursday, January 20th
2:30 and 8:15 P. M.
ALL SEATS RESERVED

Baker was a “Fighting Wildcat” in Atlanta. Although the Atlanta and S. G.-N. F. both have wide-awake and enthusiastic alumni. It was learned at the S. G.-N. F. Association meeting that T. S. Baker, '26, was planning to reserve seats at the Davidson-Florida game for Davidson while at Davidson and he is making intense efforts with others to have a big crowd at the game. On January 2, 1927, Mr. James I. Groover, ex-'27, was married to Miss Jane Adams, at Thomasville, Ga.

P. F. JONES AGAIN
(Continued from page 1)

As materials for a story, essay, play, or poem. A few have unmistakable genius along this cultural or bookish line. Others would do better if they should confine themselves to familiar, ordinary life and devote their efforts to an original expression of humbler themes. What genuine realism such theory would be! Perhaps, however, it is beyond the power of amateur writers to depict scenes and characters of a familiar yet masterful character. But realism would be preferable to strained naturalism. Miss Martin’s “Three Ladies” is a novelty in that each is representative of a familiar type. The first, “Portrait of a Lady With Red Hair,” is best; although it contains some weak spots in sentence structure which would strengthen the sketch if corrected. Miss Martin is guilty of the feminine superlative, as “with the biggest, most interrogative gray eyes I have ever seen.” The quotation given ends a sentence. One in “The Model Matron” is, “Leaning against the edge of the crumbling porch, with a heavy wooden pail resting on the lower step, was the dirtiest little specimen of childhood I have ever seen.” There are several deceptive dangling participles. There is too much of the feminine rhetoric evident in Miss Martin’s work—although, on the whole, the portrayals are delightful.

Undoubtedly Mr. J. Gilmer Wharton is the possessor of a capable style. Yet that style would hold more appeal if he should stick to one medium of personal expression. In one portion of an essay he employs a free and easy manner of continuing such charmingly pedantic “me.” Then, instead of “one,” wouldn’t “we” or “you” be preferable? As it is, he taxes the eye with the more Fresh Country Vegetables. STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders.

BARNETT AND COMPANY

WANTED---AN ASSISTANT MANAGER
Wanted---A wide-awake man to help us, in our College Department, on the Campus in his spare time. Will pay about $80 in the next two months. Additional work later will amount to approximately $250. No selling for this man. Prefer man at least twenty, one year college work and not afraid of HARD work. Tell us about yourself.
F. E. ANDERSON, General Delivery, DAVIDSON, N.C.

KEEP THOSE GOLDEN MEMORIES
A Glorious Grid Season
Over-Enjoyed Holidays
Never-Forgotten Week-Ends
Enviable Records
Autographs of Classmates

“When the mystic haze of years transmutes the rollicking pleasure of school days into golden memories, every memento connected with that life will become a priceless nugget in the hands of those who prize them.”

National Memory Books $5.00
STUDENTS SUPPLY STORE
DAVIDSON, N.C.