DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 28, 1927

SONIAN: No. 27

Held Thursday by Pinkney, Retiring Pres. New Councilmen Will Take Charge of Student Affairs

FOURTEEN INSTALLED

H. M. Arrowood Newly Elected President, Asks Co-operation of Entire Student Body

Thursday morning, April 21st, the newly elected Student Council of Davidson College was formally installed and took entire charge of
all student affairs. The installation exercises were conducted by the retiring and incoming student body presidents, and followed the regular
college chapel exercises. Immediately at the close of chapel, Jean Pinkney, retiring president, announced that the new council was to
be installed at that time and requested the members to take their places on the platform. Pinkney administered the oath
of office to the incoming student councilmen and delivered to them a brief charge. He then spoke to the student
body, thanking them on behalf of the outgoing council for support and co-operation given during the past year and urging
them to continue to support the council during the year to come. H. M. Arrowood, newly-elected student body president, then
took charge of the ceremonies. He spoke briefly to the student body for himself and the new council, thanking them
for the confidence shown in placing them in positions of such honor and responsibility, and to the retiring council, congratulating
them on the completion of a successful year as the governing body of the Davidson student body.

The members thus installed are:
Rising Seniors: H. M. Arrowood, B. F. Martin, W. O. Nesbit, W. R. Grey, Jr., J. L. Robinson, Caldwell Withers,
and P. J. Garrison.
Rising Juniors: M. M. King, W. M. Powell, F. A. Ratchford, and John Melton.
Rising Sophomores: Allan Frew, G. P. Henderson, and C. R. Pritchett.

The members of the retiring student council were:
Seniors: J. F. Pinkney, J. H. Mc- (Continued on page 2)

New Business Staff of Davidsonian Announced

Arrowood, Martin Crawford Elected Business Manager of Paper

Martin Crawford, the newly elected business manager of the 1927-28 Davidsonian, has recently announced his staff, which will work with
him in the business department of the school paper during the coming year. Crawford was recently elected to the business
managership over Julian Lake and Ed Douglas. He was elected by the Publications Board, which is composed of five members.

Crawford is a prominent and popular leader on the campus. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.
He has been connected with The Davidsonian work since early in his Freshman year, and last year he served as
one of the assistant business managers on the staff. His faithful work in this capacity placed him in a position
for election to the position which he now holds.

According to Crawford, the assistant business managers for next year will be R. S. Abernathy, Jr., S. J. Allison, and
Bill Powell. All of these men have made a very creditable showing in the work during the past year. Abernathy,
besides his position with The Davidsonian, is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, Sophomore track manager, member of
the Glee Club, and has served as secretary of the Florida Club. Allison is a member of the Pyramid Club,
a local social fraternity. Bill Powell is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. (Continued on page 2)

ONLY SEVEN MORE GAMES

There are seven more baseball games to be played by the Varsity this season. Three of these will be played
here at Davidson and the remaining games will be away from the home field. The remaining schedule is as follows:
April 27—Elon, at Elon.
April 28—N. C. State, at Raleigh.
April 29—U. of N. C., at Chapel Hill.
May 2—V. P. I., at Davidson.
May 4—N. C. State, at Salisbury.
May 5—N. C. State, at Davidson.
May 7—Furman, at Davidson.

Revolution of Junior Speaking is Won by McKnight

Using as his subject, “In Defense of Youth,” John McKnight, of Shelby, was winner in the Junior Oratorical Contest held
in Shearer Hall at 8:00 p.m., April 14. Clisby Dubose, who had as his subject “The Dragon Turns,” and Camper
O'Neal, whose subject was “Caterpillar Communism.”

McKnight in his speech defended the mistakes and the frivolous acts of the youth of today. He admitted the wisdom
and foresight of age, but showed that the unwise acts of youth were the most enjoyable ones. He brought out
clearly that youth was a stage through which all must pass, and that youth, in a sense, must have its
fling. The thoughtless and impulsive acts of youth, he said, are the means through which one learns, and becomes capable
of judging things for himself.

In “The Dragon Turns” Dubose pictured the conditions of the people of China today. Having lived there for a time
himself, he was able to give first-hand information on the subject. He showed how the North and the South were
divided against each other, and drew a comparison between this internal China and the Civil War in America. Dubose brought
out China’s need of America—not forceful intervention, but a (Continued on page 2)

Gamecocks, Deacons Downed in Meets With Wildcat Track Artists

John Curry Sets New Mark in Century Clash Daniels Stars

South Carolina and Wake Forest Conquered by Overwhelming Scores—Dashes Interesting

The Davidson track team has covered itself with glory in recent weeks, winning two meets on successive Saturdays by safe
margins and one of them by a top-heavy score. South Carolina was met and defeated in Columbia on April 16,
and Wake Forest was trimmed at Richardson Field on April 23. In the South Carolina meet the Gamecocks took eight
first places, but the Wildcats took more than one place in a number of events, and enough first places to
win the meet. John Currie showed his usual form to win the 100 and 220-yard dashes, and Captain Goodykoontz won
the 440. Creech threw the javelin 146 feet 3 inches, to win his initial first place of the season. The
final score was 72-53.

The outstanding event of the Wake Forest meet was John Currie’s stellar performance in the hundred-yard dash. Not only did
he win first place, but he lowered the college record by three-tenths of a second, establishing a new low mark
of 9 7-10 seconds. Second only to Currie’s record were those of Daniels, Wake Forest star, who was high point
man with 18 points to his credit, and of Spurlock, Lenoir-Rhyne one-man team, who, entered unofficially, bettered first place (Continued
on page 2)

Golden Quill Won by Seven Writers

Last Friday evening, April 22, the Golden Quill selected seven new members. The men chosen are: A. N. Brown, W.
K. Pritchett, T. T. Jones, J. B. Moriarity, Cy Grady, L. C. Wadsworth, and R. C. Greer.

The Golden Quill is one of the honors at Davidson for journalistic men. It stands not only as a high
honor, but as a reward for achievement and whole-hearted endeavor. The members are usually chosen from the editorial staff of
The Davidsonian. The men chosen are all on The Davidsonian staff and are prominent in journalistic work at Davidson.

T. T. Jones is the retiring president of the Reporters’ Club, associate editor of The Davidsonian, and a contributor to
The Chameleon. He is prominent in English work and is well known by the students and popular with the faculty.
He is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

A. N. Brown, managing editor of The Davidsonian, retiring vice-president of the Reporters’ Club, is prominent in scholastic work and
is popular with the students.

W. K. Pritchett is a member of the Reporters’ Club and managing editor of The Davidsonian. He is well known
because of his scholastic achievements and participation in campus activities. He is also a candidate for assistant cheer leader for
next year.

J. B. Moriarity, managing editor of The Davidsonian, member of the Reporters’ Club,| . . ° in three events. “Captain
Goodykoontz was | and Junior assistant manager of basketball, second high point scorer with 79 points to his credit. The
score of this meet was 88 to 38. Davidson won 11 first places to Wake Forest's three, winning many of
the second places as well. Summary of the South Carolina meet: 100 yard dash—Currie (D); Rubenstein (C); Kell (D). Time:
10 2-10. Mile run—O'Neal (D); Boyce (C); (Continued on page 6) has achieved popularity among the students, and good records
in his courses of study. He is also a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. C. R. Lake is
athletic editor of The Davidsonian and the retiring secretary of the Reporters’ Club. He is noted because of his remarkable
knowledge of athletics from his progress in his studies, and his popularity with both students (Continued on page 6).

Honorary Fraternity Council Sponsors Second General Bid-Day as Seven Fraternities Elect Nineteen

Elections to Reporters Club

On last Monday night, April 25th, the Reporters’ Club met to choose the new members for the year. 16 Freshmen
were chosen, making a total of 19 new men selected for membership. The Sophomores are: M. T. Gilmour, R. W.
Kirkpatrick, and A. F. Lapsley. The Freshmen are: R. F. Jarratt, R. W. McDermid, C. M. Pratt, V. A. Milton,
A. T. Edelman, M. K. Henderson, D. P. Anderson, E. S. Heifner, F. W. Johnston, D. K. Miller, A. N.
Haverstadt, Z. V. Long, D. T. Stokes, W. A. Mitchell, W. R. Treverton, and W. H. Best. Membership in the
Reporters’ Club is limited to five per cent of the student body. The large Freshman class this year accounts for
the rather large number of Freshmen taken into the club. Practically all of these men have been connected with The
Davidsonian work all the year, and the Sophomores worked with the publication last year as well. These men have put
forth their best efforts and used their time and talent unstintingly to uphold the slogan of the school paper: “To
make The Davidsonian the best college publication in the state,” and have worked (Continued on page 3).

On Tuesday seven of the honorary fraternities extended their spring bids to members of the student body. Forty-nine bids were
given to members of the three upper classes; seven Seniors, 26 Juniors, and 16 Sophomores. The bids for Omicron Delta
Kappa and Gamma Sigma Epsilon have previously been announced. Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity elected four members of the Junior class
and one of the Seniors who have shown interest or unusual talents in the literary arts. Sigma Upsilon is one
of the oldest and largest national fraternities in the honorary council. Delta Pi Kappa, local journalistic organization, extended invitations to
one Senior and four Sophomores who have rendered noteworthy service for The Davidsonian. Seven Juniors were elected to Scabbard and
Blade, leading national military fraternity. These men have demonstrated conspicuous ability in the R. O. T. C. unit. The International
Relations Club extended bids to nine who have demonstrated their prowess and interest in world problems by winning over several
opponents in an essay contest. Alpha Phi Epsilon, national forensic fraternity, chose ten members, the largest number chosen by any
fraternity. Omega Phi Alpha chose seven men who have shown (Continued on page 5).

New Staff of 1928 Chameleon Chosen

J. G. Wharton, editor-in-chief of the 1927-28 Chameleon, has recently announced his staff. The business staff has not yet been
announced by C. C. Trabue, however, it is expected to be made public at an early date. The literary staff
is as follows: Boyce Martin, editor of the department of poetry; Browne McQueen, editor of the fiction department; R. A.
Boggess, editor of the essay department; and Caldwell Withers, editor of the review department. The associate editors are: Malcolm Murchison,
Bernard McClaugherty, and Dick Flinn. Wharton, the editor-in-chief of the magazine, has done some very good work along literary lines,
and was the reviewer for this year. His election to the editor-in-chief of The Chameleon, the only strictly literary publication
at Davidson, did not come as such a surprise on account of the amount of his work published heretofore. Boyce
Martin, the new editor of the poetry department, has been the only other man in his class except Wharton to
have any amount of his work published in the Chameleon. He is the new editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian (Continued on
page 8).

Dr. Henry Lewis Smith Speaks at O.D.K. Initiation Ceremonies on Tuesday Night

Private Initiation Held Preceding Public Address

TWENTY INITIATED

Robert E. Lee is Portrayed as Ideal Omicron Delta Kappa Man

The Davidson Delta Circle, Omicron Delta Kappa, held its public initiation ceremonies in Shearer Hall on Tuesday night, April 26,
the feature of the evening being an address by Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president of Washington and Lee University. The
evening’s program was begun by a private initiation of the 11 alumni and nine students recently elected to membership, followed
by the address of Dr. Smith, and concluded by a banquet at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. Students initiated were those
selected at the recent “tap-day” exercises. They are: B. F. Martin, H. M. Arrowood, C. F. McCrae, W. O. Nesbit,
F. C. Withers, W. L. Lingle, W. R. Sims, R. I. Lincoln, and J. S. Broyles. All these men are
leaders of the student body in their respective lines, and are taken from both the present and rising Senior classes.
Many alumni were present for the occasion. Graduates of Davidson who were selected for membership and who were present are:
L. E. Matthews, Charlotte, N.C.; J. J. Barnhardt, Concord, N. C.; Hinton James, Laurinburg, N. C.; Dr. W. M. Dunn,
Atlanta, Ga.; Dr. Reid Morrison, Mooresville, N. C.; Edgar Tufts, Banner Elk, N. C.; J. O. Cobb, Durham, N. C.;
T. D. Dupuy, Greensboro, N. C.; Prof. Reed Smith, Columbia, S.C. Dr. Smith chose as his subject, “R. E. Lee,
the Ideal O. D. K. Man.” He declared that “The Omicron Delta Kappa ideal is the all-round expert, the high-grade
specialist who is also broad-visioned and broad-minded.” Enlarging this theme, he said, “He is also the practical American who is
educated and trained, who does one thing best but other things well, who can not only argue but organize and
perform, who can think and (Continued on page 6).

Captain Daugherty to Succeed Captain Weems by War Department

Captain R. D. Daugherty, it has been officially announced by the War Department, will be the P. M. S. and
T. next year, taking the place of Capt. G. H. Weems, who has been ordered to take command of the
General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Captain Daugherty was born in New Mexico, and is a graduate of the
New Mexico Military Institute and the Infantry School at Fort Benning, Georgia, where he stood high in his class. During
the World War he saw service in Germany. In the three years he has been here most of his work
has been in connection with the instruction of the Freshman class. Captain Weems came to Davidson in the fall of
1923, from Fort Benning, Georgia. During his term of service at Davidson, the R. O. T. C. unit has received
the Distinguished Service rating, the first time that it has been awarded to the college. Not only through military lines
has Captain Weems rendered service to the college, but through athletic lines also. He has acted as wrestling coach of
the Davidson team. Captain Weems is a well-recognized authority on military matters. He reviewed the R. O. T. C. manual
now in official use at all colleges having a unit of the R. O. T. C. He also wrote the
section on machine gunnery to be found in the manual. Next year (Continued on page 8).
