Unusual praise and credit for their work. "Who are handling the work over to them."

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1927

AS THE ATHLETIC EDITOR SEES IT
BY RAYMOND LAKE

The game with Lenoir-Rhyne last Friday just shows again what a Davidson team can do. They hadn't learned to work together as a unit. Well, they've learned the trick now, and they've put it into practice to perfection. Teamwork was the outstanding thing in the game Friday; and the whole team deserves unusual praise and credit for their work.

Golf Team Defeated by Salisbury Players Under Disagreeable Conditions

Winds and Wet Links Make Playing Difficult—McGill and Wilson Win

Under favorable weather conditions, the Davidson golf team met defeat at the hands of the strong Salisbury country club team Saturday afternoon on the Salisbury links, McGill and Wilson being the only Davidson men to win their matches.

The golf team is composed of S. W. McGill, Billy Wolfe, A. L. Mills, J. I. Love, B. A. Wilson, and R. M. Menzies. McGill and Wolfe were conceded the first two positions, while Mills, Wilson, and Menzies were elected through the tournament played off last week in which the best golfers in school participated. Love and Mills will play in the finals for third position.

It is expected that a return match with the Salisbury team will be played on the Davidson course in the near future. The team is working hard in view of the fact that on Saturday, April 9th, they will encounter the strong Georgia Tech team on the Charlotte links. This team has several outstanding players, and a very interesting match is assured. The members of the student body are invited to attend the match, and thus to support the team and urge them on to do their best!

Rains Delay Fresh Tennis Tournament

In spite of a good deal of rain and other intervening complications, the tennis tournament for the Freshmen is coming along in good shape. All first-round matches, with the exception of one, have been played off, with those who were expected to win coming through in fine shape. Several second-round matches have been completed, and it is in this round that two upsets have already occurred. The entrants as a whole display a much better form of play than those who entered the fall tournament. As the list narrows down by each round, hotter, closer, and more interesting matches are expected. The tournament was to have been completed this Saturday, but on account of rain and inability to play off matches, it has been very much delayed.

The Freshman track squad overwhelmingly defeated the Catawba squad in a meet at Catawba last Saturday by a score of 75 to 25. The Wildkittens took every first place and didn’t give their opponents a show. If they can just keep up the good work and do as well in proportion when they meet stronger teams, their season should be a very successful one, to say the least.

Two out of three sets are necessary by the rules of the tournament to decide all matches until the semi-finals are reached. Then three sets out of five will determine the winner. The team will consist of the four men reaching the semi-finals, who will be subject to challenges from other applicants who have been eliminated in the earlier rounds of the tournament. The men who are still in the tournament are as follows: Halverstadt, Coker, Gardner, Brown, DeCamp, Apple, Anderson, Mathews, White, Pratt, Johnston, Pettus, McNair, and Whittle. These men have been showing exceptionally good form in their past matches and with the chances of a position on the team resting on their respective matches, it is certain that they will do their best in the matches which are to come.

CABINET OF Y. M. C. A. CHOSEN
(Continued from page 1)

It has been one of the most active cabinets that the “Y” has had in a good many years and the new staff will have to do their utmost to live up to the pace set by these men.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

Introducing to the readers of MR. GEORGE BRYAN (Davidson 1875-76), Member of the Board of Trustees and Attorney

Wildcats Lose to Elon Sluggers by 7-3 Score in Third Game of Year

Wildcats Field Well, But Unable to Hit as Well as Visitors

Lenoir-Rhyne Defeated in One-Sided Encounter With Fighting Wildcats

Members of Team Show Improvement in Hitting

Last Tuesday, the 29th, the Davidson Wildcats went downin defeat before the Elon Christians by a score of 7 to 3. The game was fairly well played for this early in the season, and was hard fought the whole way through. The pitching of Briggs, for the visitors, featured the game. Allowing five hits in the first, sixth, and eighth innings, he tightened up and allowed the Wildcat sluggers only one hit in the last six innings. 

The Lenoir-Rhyne team here Friday afternoon lost by the score of 11 to 3. The team from Hickory used four pitchers in their attempt to tame the Wildcats, but all proved of little avail. Opening the first inning with a triple and a pair of infield hits, the Wildcats pushed across three runs. Later in the game, the Wildcats found their batting eyes for the second time and knocked out three consecutive doubles to score another three runs in the sixth. In the eighth inning, they put four more runs to their credit. 

The fielding of both teams was fine, especially that of the Wildcats, who made only one error, while the Christians were not so lucky, having four chalked up against them. Both teams played heads-up ball and fielded the ball fast and snappy. 

Wells pitched his second successful game, and aided by himself and his teammates, accumulated 11 hits from the four Lenoir-Rhyne hurlers.

WELLS STARS
Good Fielding an Outstanding Feature—Team Works Well Together—Dulin Stars

The Wildcat baseball team grouped their hits, this line blow coming in the ninth inning. The score was tied in both the first and third innings, but Elon drew away in the fifth when they scored one run and later in the eighth when they scored three more. The hitting honors of the day went to Elon, who garnered 12 hits, twice as many as Davidson. Sims, of the Elonites, led the sluggers, getting three hits out of five times at bat, a fourth of the hits gotten by his team. Captain Woodham, of the Wildcats, secured two of the six safeties allowed his team and also scored two of the three runs. This makes the second defeat for the Wildcats in three games, the other defeat being that of Oak Ridge. 

The box score and summary: Frick was the only man on the Hickory team to hit the ball hard enough for it to count for extra bases. His extra base hit came in the seventh when he smashed out a triple. Dulin, Johnson, and Captain Woodham sent the ball out for three-baggers. Captain Woodham also got a swat that took him to the middle station. 

Box score and summary:

Tournament Now On for Varsity Tennis

The present tennis season has introduced a novel and effective method for selecting the members of the varsity team. A schedule known as the “Ladder” has been drawn up, and on this “Ladder” have been placed the names of all men desiring to try for a place on the team. Any man is at liberty to challenge any man above him on the list to a match. If the challenger is victorious, he displaces the loser, thereby bettering his own position and drawing nearer to one of the first four places, which, of course, constitute the varsity positions. In direct contrast to the old method, a man is not dropped from the squad if he loses his first match, but is always free to challenge again in an effort to regain his standing. The “Ladder” has been a great success so far, keeping interest at its highest pitch and promoting vigorous competition at all stages. In order to enable the four ranking players to work together and to develop teamwork as much as possible before scheduled meets with other schools, a rule has been made stating that no challenge shall be issued, within three days of a meet, to any of the first four men. This is known as the three-day rule. The four men who are leading at present will compose the team that meets Furman University here on April 5th. These men are Captain McCutcheon, Roddey, Carr, and Alexander. McAlpine, letter man from last year, is pushing Alexander hard and may move into the elect circle very soon. Daniels, Bradley, and Christian are all showing up well. None of the positions are cinched, and it is entirely possible for a lower man to win his spurs by consistent playing. Immediately after the holidays, the team leaves for Chapel Hill, where the state meet will be in progress for three days, beginning with April 21st. Davidson must play in top form in order to maintain her past records at state tournaments, and judging from the interest and enthusiasm being shown now, the Wildcats will do that very thing.

Elon. BRHOA
Lenoir-Rhyne ABRHOA
Cie, oh Dara eee lec Cee Sera 4 0 2 4 1 1
WiIHISHANt Of eaten sce Leek ae 3 0 0 4 0
Gilliam, 1b 5 0 0 11 0
HOW tose 40 1 0 2 0
EAT AT THE
on eat Ah oA Braxtony: Cl cacsssussese ss Silo 2 0 1 2 0
Riser int sinh oe 4 6 0 4 1 0
Simmsyett ces sseccs ease ee 0 6 3 0 4 0
Cc (Ay SD py year payne key ayers
Eile (gop ede ee 15 OUNDN) TE <-on-secomnnnn- ye Ol aie 4: i sae aaa 3 1 0
ASTOR LUNCH
Glémmervic 2eeszece is see 40 0 3 2
Ho le ve Bo i ag cL Clay eee eee GAP 0 O OW
Caen ee eae, IRN VNePieno ee cece ee cee 000 0 1
Sd DY ici eeateectaee ee ie
SERVICE
IBTOWN Desc ssaesaea aoe Oo lek alk 3
Morale 8 38 7 12 27 12
Reith ah -eree ane pocatakate ebehes bape aacna a at ne lean PuCu tale a RA ‘4 5
Al Davidson ABRHOA
ee BE Se epeean neers ft etherO ol Nyercnaty 10 eet Ae [cs ldo aaa
PMUrfayy tt oo oo22252 eee 20 0.4 0
MotlWicesc cao 33 3 24 16
Ratchford, If -—----..___. 4 0.1 2 01
THE BEST OF COOK-
xBatted for Coulton in ninth
Johnson, cf ------+-------- i es fee fe ayes Bia Gle Gaeta as eee 4-0
e2 1
ING
Davidian Poe ee Geers 00 ee
AWiorordboyeten), tlh) Re 2 1S TY reunler a Abe fe eal oo
Davis, 1h eveecoseenecoaa ee a ae
Charlotte, N.C.
atGhtOndGelit seamen ers Bh ye bee iP es
x WTONNEOHRe tor. o8 ac uce 4 21 1-0
Cathey, Pp ---------------- AU
oa Bint he ee eu eae Wie ©
(Continued on page 3)
Crawford, 2b. ----------.- 30 0 2 il
~G=
) < pros ?
~~
.
Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach
INVGlN ap ee cae ee ake Wao
and Goldsmith
a UN a ce ee
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
eotals: aveee ees ee 35 11 11 26 13
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Score by innings: R
——
000 030 000— 3.
Lenoir-Rhyne
Davidson
s222 825 es 300 103 04x—11,
(oz
Errors: Frick, Wordham, Davis, Crawford; three-base hits: Frick, Woodham, Dulin, Johnson; two-base hits: Wells, Woodham; sacrifice hits: Whisnant, Johnson, Crawford; stolen bases: Davis, Johnson; left on bases: Lenoir-Rhyne 4, Davidson 6; base on balls: off Ryan 1, Brown 2, Mooney 1; struck out: by Brown 1, Spurlock 1, Wells 6; hits: off Rhyne 1 with 2 runs in 1-3 innings, off Brown 8 hits with 5 runs in 6 2-3 innings, off Mooney 2 hits with 3 runs in 2-3 inning, off Spurlock 1 run with no hits in 1-3 inning; umpire: Mattox.

STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

FELLOWS!
You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

rrrrrrr irri tri rt r~rI rrr irirrt Cy Cerro rrr rrr
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
The Davidsonian
15E. Trade St.
EXCLUSIVE AGENTS
Selz Shoes, Adler Collegian Clothes
Complete line of High-Grade Haberdashery
The Vogue
THE SHOP FOR MEN
Campus Representative, R. B. MCQUEEN
CHARLOTTE, N. C.