THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1927

Graduates of Davidson Publish Two New Books
“God’s World and Word” and “King John” Gain Much Favorable Comment

Personal
W. M. Gracey, '25, is now at his home at Covington, Tenn., being located for several months at Rock Hill, S. C. Gracey is planning to enter Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va., next fall.

Two Davidson alumni have recently written books that have gained considerable comment. Rev. Neal L. Anderson, D.D., ’85, of Savannah, Ga., has combined a series of addresses into a book entitled, “God’s World and Word,” which has brought forth an avalanche of favorable comment. The first address is entitled, “God and His Wonder World,” which is the same one he delivered before the Y. M. C. A. during the commencement of 1925.

Rev. George F. Robertson, D.D., '78, who has been supplying the pastorate at Hickory, N. C., but is now at his home at Lowell, N. C., has written “King John, a Tale of the South,” which is a portrayal of a negro character, containing many quaint sayings. Prior to that he published “The Only Nancy,” a novel, which had a wide circulation.

Dr. Anderson’s book consists of twelve “Addresses for Today” in which he speaks to earnest-minded men and women on the contemporary problems of the religious life—problems that confront the intellect, the heart, and the conduct of everyday life. “In this book, he is not questioning the infallibility of the Scriptures, but seeking to make clear their function in pointing not to themselves but to Christ as the Object and basis of faith. The author shows himself to be a conservative without being a reactionary. He is modern without being a ‘modernist.’”

Dr. Robertson’s story “is bright, attractive, and holds the interests of the reader from beginning to end. But the greatest value of the book lies along two other lines. It is a splendid delineation of negro character, as many of us have seen and know it here in the South. In portraying the negro he has presented a wealth of the quaint and striking expressions of the race. He gives a sketch of the church that is big enough in soul to be willing to give its members toward the organization of other churches and the growth of the Kingdom is most refreshing.”

Davidson Alumni in Insurance Business
Davidson College graduates, particularly of the classes of the last few years, are going into the insurance business in large numbers, as revealed by the fact that 11 students are with the Aetna Life Insurance Company. These eleven men represent six different classes and at present are scattered over a territory that includes six states. The men, classes, and location at the present time follow:

Columbia, S. C.—G. B. Sorrells, ’23; J. Allison, ’25; E. M. Hines, ’24, and H. Covington, ’24.
Charlotte, N. C.—S. B. Woods, ’14; R. U. Woods, ’23, and A. C. McIntyre, ’25.
Pittsburgh, Pa.—W. B. Thomas, ’10.
Baltimore, Md.—P. O. Bethea, ’22.
Oklahoma City, Okla.—M. D. Thomasson, ’25.
Little Rock, Ark.—C. M. Streibich, '23.

W. H. Fitts, '26, is with the United Fruit Company in South America. His address is care United Fruit Co., Rio Frio District, Santa Marta, Republic of Colombia, South America. This makes two members of the class of 1926 who are in foreign countries, A. C. Lindley being in Smyrna, Turkey, with the American Tobacco Company of the Orient.

C. Murray, Jr., ’14, who has been in Mexico for some time is now located at Zitacuaro, Michoacan, Mexico.

Rev. E. C. Murray, Jr., ’14, who has been in Mexico for some time is now located at Zitacuaro, Michoacan, Mexico.

Rev. A. R. Hassell, '06, who is at Tokushima, Japan. Rev. C. R. Jenkins, '17, is also at that point. “Jenkins and I are the only Davidson alumni in Tokushima, so you see the ‘Tokushima D. C. Alumni Association is 100 percent strong,” wrote Mr. Hassell.

K. E. Boushee, '24, was married recently to Miss Margaret Beale, at Wilmington, N. C.

Alumni of New York to Convene on March 11th
Associations Scattered Over Twelve Hundred Miles of Country

News was received at Davidson Monday afternoon that the New York Alumni Association of Davidson College has scheduled a meeting for that organization, to be held March 11th, inviting any officials of the college in that section on that date to attend. There are approximately 35 Davidson men in New York at the present time, according to the Alumni Secretary's files. Others are located there and are not listed, so he has asked The Davidsonian to request members of the student body to furnish him the names of Davidson men in New York within the next day or two in order that all of them will have an invitation to attend.

The New York association has been in existence for some time. According to the last information received Dr. William Mack, ’82, was president, but an election has been held since that time. The Alumni Secretary wrote several days ago in regard to a meeting and for a new list of the officers, but had not obtained them Monday night.

WILDCATS TAKE FINAL GAME
(Continued from page 1)

successfully, making the number of won and lost ten and nine respectively. The line-up was as follows:

The Wildcats made eight of their tries good, while the visitors made only four of their free tries count. This game marked the closing of the season for both teams. Up to this game, the Wildcat quintet had broken even in the number of games won and lost this season. This win put the team over the half-way mark.

RE-EXAMS
During the spring holidays, re-examinations will be held for those who failed on subjects in the fall term. They will begin on Friday, April 15th, and only those who made within ten points of the passing grade will be allowed to stand the re-exams. Not more than one may be taken at this time; others may be stood either the first week of June or the first week of September. The fee for each subject is $2.50.

JUNIOR ORATORICALS
After a vote taken by the entrants in the Junior Oratorical Contest, Chairman Tyree Dillard has announced that it has been decided to postpone the date for this event from February 22 to a day in the middle of March. No definite date has been announced for the event, but it is sure to be held in the middle of March. There are only six men entered in the meet so far, and the chairman is very anxious to have more participants. The men who have entered are very able speakers, and since many of them have had experience on various debating teams, a good program is assured.At Wilmington, N.C. They will be located in that city, the home of Mr. Boushee. The Baltimore, Md., Philadelphia, Pa., and Richmond, Va. Alumni in Washington, D.C., will be included in the Baltimore meeting.

R. M. Calhoun, ’20, is now at Laurel Hill, N.C.

Friends will regret to learn that the father of C. M. Clarke, ’24, and R. R. Clarke, '19, died suddenly recently. The father of Rev. R. S. Eskridge, ’07, also died recently after a long and useful life.

Rev. Dwight Chalmers, pastor at Greensboro, has recently been ill with influenza, but has recovered and is now filling his pulpit regularly.

Rev. W. A. McIlwaine, ’15, who spent several months in Davidson on his leave of absence from the foreign field, is now at Princeton University, his address being Apartment A-3, 38 Alexander St.

W. T. Elliott, '23, is now practicing law in Columbia, S.C., and teaching at the University there.

Davidson College has two alumni teaching in Chicora College at Columbia, S.C.: S. D. Smith, ’12, and F. C. Thames, ’23. Kimbrough, ’26, is attending the University of Kentucky, at Lexington.

The fifth and last of the series of vocational talks, which have been made each Wednesday night for the past four weeks, will be delivered, according to custom, Wednesday night at 7:30 in Shearer Hall. The subject of the talk will be on the general field of business, but as this topic covers such a large scope, the Y.M.C.A. is trying to get a professor of the business college of some large university, or some successful big businessman to present the profession, and to give the main principles of business in an inspiring address.

Of the plan of the Vocational Guidance Institute will be made by the “Y” during the meeting to be held on the first of April, and to be conducted by Rev. E. G. Gammon, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, of Selma, Ala.

The talks which have been made so far under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A. are as follows: Medicine, Dr. J. M. Northington; Teaching, Dr. M. C. S. Noble; Law, Hon. E. R. Preston; and Ministry, Dr. A. S. Johnson. These talks were all very interesting and have helped quite a few of the students in deciding upon their vocations.

The Y.M.C.A. has procured catalogues from almost every college, university, and business college throughout the country for the benefit of those students who are considering going to some advanced school. Everybody is welcomed to come to the “Y” at any time and look over these catalogues.

The meeting of the Davidson Student Volunteer Movement of North Carolina was held at Elon College. Five Davidson delegates, W. B. Rice, W. K. Forbes, J. M. Andrews, G. F. Houck, R. C. Butler, and G. A. Fry, attended this meeting. Problems of the present day which it is felt that we, the younger generation, must deal with, were discussed. There were several girl delegations present, adding life to the whole convention. The speakers at this convention were largely officers in the Student Volunteer Movement, that nation-wide band of boys and girls who have devoted their lives to Christ on the foreign field. Dr. Soper, a leading educator of Duke University, Mrs. Turner, of the Georgia Synodical, and Mr. J. R. Wilson, the associate secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement, were some of the speakers.

The Junior Speaking preliminaries which were to have been held on February 22nd have been postponed until the middle of this month in order that the entrants may have more time to prepare their orations. The definite date has not yet been set, but will be announced by Tyree Dillard, chairman of the oratorical committee, during the coming week.

The Converse College Dramatic Club may also come to Davidson during the latter part of March in a series of one-act plays. This organization has won wide applause throughout South Carolina this year, and will bring a well-rounded act to Davidson.

Professor Pipe’s popular illustrated lecture... Davidson. Position. Duke. Anderson: (19) - Butler RF Fresh Country Vegetables Calhoun (9) - Rowe (3) Kelly (10) STABLE AND FANCY GROCERIES Bennett (7) Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders Harrison (7) - Weaver (12) LG BARNETT AND COMPANY Davidson, N.C.

You can learn far more about tobacco from old Prof. Pipe than you'll get by studying every treatise ever written on it. For Prof. Pipe is the world’s most eminent authority on the subject. He knows tobacco from plant to pipe! Experiments with every known species have convinced the Prof. that the one perfect pipe tobacco is Granger Rough Cut. He points out reasons for this conclusion: (G) the Granger-grade Burley, the choicest tobacco grown; (R) the rediscovery of Wellman’s mellowing method; and (C) the cut of the large slow-burning Prof. Pipe proves Granger, by practical demonstration—shows how it acts under fire. You never saw tobacco burn so slow, never tasted such cool, mild mellowness! The first pipeful is a liberal education! You'll put your q.e.d. and capital o.k. on G.R.C. and all your pipe problems will be solved forever!

GRANGER ROUGH CUT

The half-pound vacuum tin is forty-five cents. Granger Rough Cut is made by the Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company.

The meeting of the Davidson Student Volunteer Movement last Sunday was in charge of the president, J. A. McAlpine. The program was largely a report of the delegates to the convention. All of them reported having had a fine meeting and all five gave very good reports on the convention.