THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1927

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

HARLLEE BRANCH, JR. ............ Editor-in-Chief
VERNON S. BROYLES ............ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. L. SEABROOK ............ Managing Editor
F. R. JONES ............ Assistant Managing Editor
J. L. JONES ............ Athletic Editor
R. H. McILWAINE ............ Associate Editor
J. L. ELY ............ Alumni Editor
J. McKNIGHT ............ Exchange Editor
L. WADSWORTH ............ Humorous Editor
A. M. SMITH ............ Alumni Editor
TYREE DILLARD ............ Assignment Editor
B. WILSON ............ Feature Editor
J. R. WEAVER ............ Inquiring Reporter

BUSINESS STAFF
BY AK DOUGLASS ............ Assistant Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD ............ Assistant Business Manager
JULIAN JAKE ............ Assistant Business Manager
A. S. MOAIRUN ............ Subscription Manager
J. L. ALBRIGHT ............ Circulation Manager
R. S. ABERNETHY ............ Service Manager
C. C. MURCHISON
R. LAKE
W. T. COVINGTON
K. R. KANE
W. T. DAVIS
JOHN GWIN
JOHN MORIARTY
T. T. JONES
A. N. BROWN

EDITORIAL

The student who jokingly placed a “bankruptcy” sign on the door of our Student Store is the type of practical
joker who should be tied to the whipping post and physically punished for his thoughtlessness. His prank has caused the
managers of the store considerable worry and inconvenience in regaining the fine credit with wholesale dealers that his joke almost
destroyed.

The petition of the student-body urging the construction of adequate tennis-court facilities recalls the ancient adage “Dripping water will wear
away the hardest stone.” (Maybe).

“A thousand pardons” was once believed to be an extravagant phrase of politeness, but “Ma” Ferguson has made it look
like a piker, with more than 3,000 — Arizona Record.

For the first time in the history of collegiate failures, the “flunker” has proved himself of benefit—at least as an
advertising medium. A New York business college uses the “flunker” to illustrate the disadvantages of not knowing shorthand.

For every man who doesn’t smoke, there’s a flivver or a woman who does.—The O’Collegian.

COMMENDABLE JOURNALISM

The refusal by a large number of influential newspapers to print details of the recent “Peaches” Browning divorce trial has
brought a considerable measure of praise to American journalism. After so many years of vulgarity and obscenity in the contents
of most of our papers, it is a pleasant surprise to find American journalists waking up to the realization that
sensationalism is not the best policy after all.

The Christian Science Monitor, as a result of its rejection of all stories dealing with crime, was undoubtedly the leader
in a movement that is continually elevating the tone of American journalism. The Boston Traveler, the Washington Evening Star, the
St. Petersburg Times, The Atlanta Constitution, and the Lynn Item are among the publications that have more recently enlisted in
the war against the satisfaction of vulgar appetites, habits, or passions through the news columns.

College editors will do well to notice the new trend of morality in journalism. Obscenity and vileness have too often
been the characteristics of college writings. The recent decision by the editor of the Red and Black, to print the
police court records of University of Georgia students, despite the fact that it was perhaps prompted by high motives, was,
nonetheless, an example of the sort of “stuff” college editors should guard against. The powerful influence of journalism in the
molding of student, as well as public opinion and morals, should place a perpetual check on the vile tendencies that
have characterized some of our writings in the past.

“OLD MAN” DARE

“College students are not to be blamed for what they do, but for the insufferable number of essential things they
fail to do.” So says Old Man Dare, philosopher, oracle of wisdom, and author of a book of short talks
recently distributed among certain Davidson freshmen by the Y. M. C. A. secretary. The book is entitled “Old Man Dare’s
Talks to College Men.” The author is in reality Howard Bement, head of the Department of English at the Hill
School and nationally known for his four-minute, common-sense talks to college students.

“Four minutes,” says Mr. Bement, “is the divinely appointed interval within which all the sacred revelations have been imparted to
man. Moses must have been on Sinai about that length of time; and God’s talk to Paul on the Damascus
road was a four-minute speech.”

In a concise, unique, and racy manner, Mr. Bement considers five of the main problems confronting the average college student.
With quick wit, forcible aphorisms, and unusual similes, he brings his lesson of experience to the hearts of his readers
in a way not yet touched upon by the average “student reformer.”

The book is written primarily to fraternity men, but the truths which it brings are applicable to all Davidson students.

“What are you here for?” asks Mr. Bement. “You are here to become a three-story man. Most of you have
loaded your basement with stamina and are playing high jinx with the second floor of scholarship. The second floor with
most of you is only a rough-hewn attic, stored with useless lumber and junk which you have lugged in from
a lot of college courses into which you put neither the stamina of persistent effort nor the heart of sympathetic
understanding. You don’t live there at all, and the place is cold, bleak, and uninviting.”

The second talk on “How to Study” is given through the medium of a negro servant and compares the methods
of study of most students to the action of certain barnyard animals. “Don’t be tight-muscled, muley, and obstinate,” says Old
Man Dare, “the good learning wants to lead you somewhere, but you’re too tied up with stubbornness to move.”

In his talk on “Why Study,” Old Man Dare shows conclusively that there is a law as strict as that
of the Medes and Persians that those who achieve most before graduation are likely to achieve most after graduation. In
his closing talk, he shows the “Causes and Effects” of misdirected college effort.

“Man reads,” he says, “at twenty from a book that ‘whatsoever a man sows, that shall he also reap;’ but
he discounts his reading and believes that he is the great exception to all rules. At forty, he reads from
the scroll of life the same grim truth, and then rejects the law of chance on which he formerly built
his exception. He once hoped, he now knows. Cause is merciless, effect is inevitable.”

So in a simple straightforward way, Old Man Dare dictates a tried and true philosophy to the college student. Of
the book, Marion Le Roy Burton, national educator, has said, “Every fraternity man in America ought to read this little
book. He ought to read it as a freshman because it tells in plain words just the choices he must
make. He ought to read it as an upperclassman because it will give perspective to a joyous life, the serious
duties of which he may neglect. He ought to read it as an alumnus because, with ‘Old Man Dare,’ he
has messages in his soul which this book should prompt him to deliver.”

—W. I.

What is happening in the college world? Six students commit suicide because they cannot bear the futility of life. A
co-ed student in Kansas robs a bank to secure funds with which to complete her education. Is education doing this
for our young people? Is the development of the intellect resulting in a weakening of the will? Are we educating
cowards and criminals in our modern colleges?

“Live,” advises a contemporary journal, “so that you can write a five-dollar check without worrying.” Why not finish the sentence
by adding “Other people?”

Why So Many Student Suicides? (Is Education Demonstrating Only the Futility of Life?)

One cannot read of the suicides of ten American college students in a single month without wondering what is happening
to our colleges that students should be finding life so futile and death so alluring. Newspapers, editors, overemphasizing the significance
of student suicides, have sought in vain, it seems, for an explanation of this current wave of youthful despondency. An
editorial writer for the New York World inquires whether it is possible “that the American nation, in its desire to
bring itself to a high educational standard, has driven its school mach-inery at too high a speed?” Jumpers-at-conclusions declare excitedly:
“That’s what comes of reading pessimistic philosophers. Education is being overdone.” Scare-mongers whisper: “It’s a wave, sweeping the colleges—a club—the
members make a solemn compact.” Learned psychologists, as is pointed out in a recent issue of Time, have offered numerous
explanations, none of which “hold water beyond the obvious likelihood that one man’s suicide might arrest the attention of another
man who had contemplated suicide for himself.”

Of all these explanations, the most inclined to accept that of the jumpers-at-conclusions, although we cannot agree in toto with
all that this explanation embodies. We cannot convince ourselves that education is being overdone—rather, we are of the opinion that
true education has been neglected in those curriculums which induce students to give up in despair and lead them to
prefer the mysteries of death to the beautiful promises of life. In America’s headlong rush for educational supremacy, in which
we have adopted the typically American slogan of “Education or Bust,” we have sacrificed the idealistic symbolisms of a true
culture. We hear with increasing emphasis that we are living in an age of materialism, and yet we are too
adventurous to heed the warnings against the chaos that will follow such materialistic tendencies. We have lost sight of the
great vision of true education. We hurry along in the quest of facts and theories which will only add to
the hopelessness of life, and when we have found them, we are despondent.

Education is not education if it fails to teach the proper perspective of life. True education should be inspiring, not
disparaging. When our colleges, with all their hypothetical instruction, turn their backs on the world’s call for leadership, and stuff
the minds of youth with deadening philosophical theories and blinding psychological pessimism, they encourage such catastrophes as those of which
we write. We do not advocate a system of instruction for our colleges in which the beauties of life are
exaggerated and the weaknesses of human nature excused. That is another extreme, and, although less precarious, it would be fully
as misleading. Neither do we believe in a system of instruction which blinds the eyes of students to the beauties
of life, to the opportunities for service among the less fortunate, and to the joy that a full life inevitably
brings. To hide the beauties of life beneath an avalanche of pessimism can only result in despondency for our college
students. A college education should teach a man how to live. When it demonstrates only the futility of life, it
is a failure.

College students, in their sophomoric attempts at satisfying an intellectual ego, have begun to demand what they term “the truth
about life.” An instructor who teaches them only those things of life which are exemplifications of true beauty finds himself
criticized and scorned by the undergraduate body. Some students want only the darker side of life. They are seeking after
a God of Materialistic Truth. Pessimism rewards their efforts. An instructor, if he has the courage, keeps on stressing the
hopefulness of life, not neglecting to point out human frailties but always offering a suggested remedy for their alleviation. The
less courageous instructor yields either to the student demand for materialism or to his own tendencies in that direction, and
teaches that life is a drab thing, offering only suffering and anguish—and he quickly finds himself a popular man. He
stops at nothing. Newfangled philosophy and psychology are his fads—and the development of cynicism, skepticism, and agnosticism among the students
is the inevitable result of his pedagogy.

Of the ten student suicides, seven occurred in state universities, and all of them in the overcrowded areas of the
East and Middle West, where a wave of modernism has left life stripped bare of much of its former promise.
All of which leads us to the further conclusion that there is too little consideration of God and man’s relation
to Him in our modern scheme of college instruction. When we lose sight of God, when we sacrifice our idealism
on the altar of a distorted education, when we turn our backs on the finer sort of culture in our
headlong rush after facts, and, finally, when we lose the true perspective of life in the scramble for knowledge, we
invite and encourage unhappiness and despondency. Indulgent readers will pardon us for paraphrasing an old adage so as to make
it read: “Too much knowledge is a dangerous thing.”

Activities and Studies: They Can Be Correlated

DR. MARY YOST (Dean of Women—Stanford University)

The day when curricular work in colleges was irreconcilably separate and distinct from student activities, with the implication (often too
well-founded) that students are “active” only outside the classroom, is fast receding into the limbo of forgotten things, according to
Dr. Mary Yost, dean of women at Stanford University. Miss Yost points out that curriculum making is now claiming the
interests and serious thought of college students, thus becoming in itself a “student activity.” The fact that the 3,000 college
students at the second annual congress of the National Students’ Federation of America at its meeting last month at the
University of Michigan devoted an entire session to the problem of curriculum making bears out her point. In a number
of universities, the students already have committees on curriculum making. “And since the students are taking such an interest in
the problems of the faculty,” says Miss Yost, “the faculty must work on the student problems, and this will really
make us co-workers, which, it seems to me, students and faculty ought to be.”

It is not as if the faculty have not been interested in the student activities in the past. They have
often been too much interested, Miss Yost says, but the interest has been in trying to censor and check student
initiative. With the new point of view which she hopes for, the faculty will cease trying arbitrarily to control student
activities and will work toward connecting these activities with curricular work. This connection will help students to formulate intelligently their
own inner convictions, which, after all, are the only real guides to their actions.

Present Examples

There are numerous examples of this kind of cooperation which are already operating successfully. College newspapers are used as laboratories
for the journalism students and school cafeterias are run by domestic science classes. It has been shown that curricular and
extracurricular activities need not be antagonistic and Miss Yost believes they should be supplementary—that they should enrich and vivify one
another. The already noticeable tendency toward cooperation of the two can go much farther, she says, so as to take
place between practically all student enterprises and the corresponding academic study. For instance, the experiment in student body government in
universities would have a much deeper significance if it were taken seriously as a laboratory problem lasting over an indefinite
period in place of looking ahead not more than the four years of one college generation as it does now.
Such an experiment would use the departments of economics and political science as laboratories for working out the most useful
and efficient form of government. Students would be inclined to base their governmental acts on sound political theory rather than
opportunism. Those who had anarchistic theories might advance their argument and decide whether they were wise or not.

“Now,” says Miss Yost, “students go to class and hear the most up-to-date and scientific theories of government and then
turn right around and run their own class and student body meetings in an undemocratic way, subordinating the good of
the whole to the interests of a few.” And with a twinkle she adds, “There are regular ward politicians in
the student body elections!” She feels that a close tying up of academic theory with extracurricular practice would modify and
improve the present state of affairs under which students subscribe to intelligent theories while in the classroom and then run
their own affairs on theories exactly opposite.

Two Tendencies

In the present trend of education which points to this kind of cooperation, Miss Yost sees two distinct tendencies: one,
an emphasis on the individual as opposed to the one-time consideration of children as a mass, and the other, a
widening of the conceptions of education beyond the classroom—a realization that it is not only the classroom that educates but
the whole environment, including the social and the physical, that determines what a child will be when he grows up.
This broadened conception gives increasing importance to students’ activities, since they give the college man and woman practical experience in
dealing with real-life problems.
