THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1927

ALUMNI NEWS

Work of Alumnus Used as Textbook

It is perhaps unknown to Davidson students who are taking the course in Chemistry IV, as well as to alumni
of Davidson, that the textbook, “Inorganic Physical Chemistry,” which is used in that course, was written by a Davidson graduate,
Dr. G. H. Cartledge. Dr. Cartledge graduated from Davidson in 1911, obtaining his Master of Arts degree the following year.
He then went to the University of Chicago, where he was granted a Ph.D. degree, and became professor of Chemistry
at Presbyterian College of South Carolina immediately thereafter. When Dr. Martin was elected president of Davidson in 1912, much of
the work in the Chemistry department was turned over to him as a Senior. But in 1917, he returned to
Davidson in a greater capacity, coming here as assistant professor in Chemistry and Physics. He was an expert chemist in
government service in Washington and in New Jersey during the World War, and since 1920 he has been associate professor
of Chemistry at Johns Hopkins University. His work was copyrighted in 1924, and according to Prof. O. J. Thies, of
the Chemistry department here, it is an excellent textbook—“one of the best that I have read,” said Mr. Thies, who
is in charge of this particular course.

Louisville Association Steps Ahead of Others

Statistical Report Shows Leaders in “Loyalty League” Drive

The following extracts from a letter mailed to local association officers by the alumni secretary last Saturday is largely self-explanatory.
He has prepared a statistical report on the number of contributors from each association, the total amount, the number of
alumni in each organization, and the percentage of their giving toward this work. The statistics below show only the percentage
on March 11th, and the latest report, which shows that two association presidents have been active.

To Officers of Local Associations:

The Louisville Alumni Association stepped into the lead the last few days of this month, and the Greensboro Association advanced
two notches on the scale. Statesville slipped into second when Louisville advanced from 17.7 percent to 55 percent, while Atlanta
and Gaston County were left behind when Greensboro spurted forward. The percentage of eight associations did not change last month.

Presidents of the Louisville and Greensboro organizations sent out letters to their members. You see the results. Nine new contributors
came in from Greensboro, while eight were noted from Louisville. Procrastination on the part of Davidson alumni is proving a
deterrent to this work. All that many of them need is a reminder from their officers. On April 15th another
report will be mailed to you.

A New Convenience For University Students

This introduces to University students a new way of getting around that has met with instant favor because of its
convenience and economy. You can now rent a fine private automobile that you drive yourself—take where you like—in fact use
exactly as you would a car of your own. Whether you’re going for a trip of a few miles, a
weekend trip or need a car for the evening occasion—you'll find this service mighty convenient. You come to our station—select
the car you want—and you’re on the way. It takes about two minutes. No red tape—no annoying questions. The only
requirement is that you be qualified and competent to drive a car. That is all. The cost is much lower
than you would expect. Next time you want to go somewhere—we invite you to go in one of our cars.

Ride in Groups and Split the Cost

It costs no more for five to ride in one of our cars. Plan a trip with three or four
others—divide the bill—and the cost to each is so small you'll never miss it.

Alumni Said to Be Safe in War Area

Direct and indirect information has been received concerning the safety of six Davidson College alumni, who are in China in
various capacities, and who were forced to leave their posts to avoid annihilation at the hands of the revolutionary Chinese.
Associated Press dispatches of March 28th carried the following: “The arrival of the class of 1903. Davidson College students were
particularly concerned over the safety of Warren W. P. Mills, Y. M. C. A. Secretary of Nanking, whose safety was
in doubt, was announced today by the national council of the Y. M. C. A. The council received a message.”
Mr. Mills is a member at Shanghai. Personal friends will regret to learn that the little daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. J. B. Gallent, of Gastonia, recently died from the disease of meningitis. Mr. Gallent finished at Davidson in 1925,
taught in Charlotte last year, and is now connected with the Gastonia schools. He is planning to go to Vanderbilt
next year, where he hopes to obtain his Master of Arts degree. The Asheville Times has appeared with a full-page
advertisement announcing the fact that it will publish next fall one of three volumes on the life of the late
President Woodrow Wilson '77. The advertisement stated that Mrs. Wilson turned over more than 200,000 letters which had been denied
all writers, to Ray Stannard Baker, who is writing the autobiography. Cox, '24, whom they have been supporting as a
chemistry instructor in Hangchow Mission College. Ala., that he was safe in Shanghai, which information was forwarded to his brother,
a student here now, and conveyed to the student body. Dr. Egbert Smith, '82, Secretary of Foreign Missions, has received
a cable that all missionaries of the Southern Presbyterian Church were safe. He reported a number of them safe in
Peking and Tientsin, among whom were Dr. A. A. McFadyen, '99; Rev. Locke White, '13, and Rev. E. H. Hamilton,
'17. The wives of all these missionaries were with them.McFadyen is from Raeford, Mr. White from Charlotte, and Mr. Hamilton
from Atlanta, Ga. Friends of the four Price brothers who attended Davidson have been gratified that Dr. Frank Price, their
serious student at Davidson, cabled his parents at Mobile, stating he was safe in Shanghai after two harrowing experiences, where
he was twice ordered to kneel to be shot. Intervention of friends prevented the carrying out of orders. Dr. Price
is planning to visit this country next summer, according to a letter from Price, '25, who is in Columbia, Mo.

Harry Goes to Publishers. All copy for the current edition of Sanity Rare is in the hands of the Queen
City Printing Company, publishers of the magazine. With this announcement, the work and planning of the feature Junior publication are
at an end. Caldwell Withers states that all material has been compiled, all engravings have been made, and that distribution
will take place on schedule time on Saturday night of Junior Speaking. The cover design selected was submitted by Glenn
Fry and will appear in four colors. Material for this issue has been the work of the staff, composed of
Witt Hancock, Boyce Martin, W. L. Lingle, J. G. Wharton, and Malcolm Murchison. Contributors who are not on the staff
are J. H. Caligan, J. R. Covington, “Pine Ellis” and several feminine writers. Assurance is made by the business staff
that a sufficiency of funds has been secured through the sale of advertising and that more revenue will be derived
through the sale of the magazine. Bud Gutrey is business manager and is assisted by Carter Rowe, Ed Douglas, Martin
Crawford, and Julian Lake. Sanity Rare is sponsored and published by the Junior class and is one of the essential
parts of the Junior Week program. This number will consist of 32 pages full of jokes, humorous sketches, and clever
cartoons, and all indications point to one of the most successful ventures in recent years.

Association
Pet. Apr.1 Mar 11
Louisville 55.0 17.7
Statesville 50.0 47.5
Davidson-Cornelius 40.0 35.0
Greensboro 29.0 12.7
Atlanta 18.2 18.2
Gaston County 15.5 13.3
INC WIN OTC 15.0 12.5
SGNF (S. Ga-N. Fla.) 12.5 12.5
Charlotte 12.3 11.8
Fayetteville 11.5 11.5
Rowan County 10.0 10.0
Wilmington 7.5 7.5
Raeford 5.0 5.0
Columbia 1.8 1.8

Mr. Baker was at Davidson last fall. He further stated, “Something like ten years of Woodrow Wilson's boyhood was spent
in North Carolina—at Wilmington. Later, for more than a year, he was a student at Davidson College. The first complete
revelation of the little boy Thomas Woodrow Wilson and of the sometimes rollicking and sometimes dead serious times was given
by Mr. Baker.”

W. S. Sells, ex-’28, is in the department of physical training at the United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. The
address of Lieut. A. M. Miller, '12, is Co. A, 51st Signal Battalion, Fort Monmouth, Oceanport, N. J. Walter Anderson,
ex-'28, whose home is at St. Petersburg, Fla., has started on a trip around the world in company with a
friend, and when last heard from was in Galveston, Texas. He attended the University of Florida after leaving Davidson.

Military Company Organized in 1853
Of interest to those connected with the college is the fact that the first military unit to be organized at
Davidson was instigated by the students themselves, in November 1853. The following, taken from the petition, was unanimously endorsed by
the trustees:

"The students of Davidson College, having formed a military company for the purpose of exercising themselves in military tactics, and
for their own benefits in other respects, we, the officers of the said company, do petition the faculty for permission
to use arms and drill three times a week, namely, on Tuesday and Thursday mornings a half hour after breakfast
and on Saturday evening. The arms to be placed under their care; we submitting to their direction as required by
the laws of the college. (Signed) Capt. J. A. Allison, 1st Lieut. C. Caldwell, 3rd Lieut. T. P. Stirling."

It is not known how long this company existed. In 1877 a similar petition was presented to the board and
again endorsed. The faculty arranged the regular college duties so as to encourage the organization as far as possible without
interfering with the college work. The government granted them a few ancient guns which were utilized as well as possible.
The captain and the driving force of the company was D. H. Hill, class of '80. Their need of uniforms
and lack of any natural inducement gradually lessened the enthusiasm until the company died a natural death. So ended the
second attempt at soldiery at Davidson.

THE BEST PLACE TO EAT
Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

CATARRH of nose or throat is made more endurable, sometimes greatly benefited by applying Vicks up nostrils. Also melt some
and inhale the vapors.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see
VERNON S. BROYLES
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

In Statesville We Are Located TO SERVE YOU
Drinks Candy Smokes
Austin Candy Shop
Statesville, N. C.

ANOTHER CAR STOLEN
YOURS may be next! A Fire and Theft Insurance Policy will protect you against that hazard. Let us cover your
car.
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)
