THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1927

Davidson Boys Don’t Want Compulsory Physical Drill

Questionnaire Reveals “We Don’t Want to Exercise,” Students Declare—“Just Leave Us Alone!”

NO GAMBLING

Inadequate Equipment Causes Lack of Interest

Only 468 members of the Davidson student body take regular physical exercises as much as three times a week in addition to the compulsory R.O.T.C. drill, if figures from a questionnaire circulated among more than 382 members of the student body are to be accepted as true. The questionnaire reveals further that students are opposed to any form of compulsory daily gymnastic exercises for all students.

These and other interesting facts were revealed by answers to a questionnaire recently distributed among the Davidson students by a sub-committee of the general fact-finding committee of students and faculty members appointed by the president of the college last fall to investigate social conditions on the local campus. Only 331 students responded to the inquiries contained in the questionnaire, but, believing this number to be a fair cross-section of the entire student body, the committee arrives at the above compilations.

Of the 331 students answering the questionnaire, 182 declared that inadequate equipment kept them from exercising; 142 students expressed an opinion that equipment was fully adequate, and that their failure to exercise regularly was due to other causes. Suggestions for improvement in gymnastic equipment varied widely, few students agreeing as to what additions should be made in order to encourage a more general interest in physical drills among the undergraduates.

In answer to the question, “How much money—aside from blanket fee—do you spend attending athletic contests?” the students gave various estimates. Members of the Freshman class are the most thrifty in this respect, the average expenditure for the first-year men aggregating only $8.58. The Juniors proved the most extravagant, with an average expenditure per student of $14.70 per year for athletic contests. The average expenditure for the entire student body was only $11.84. These amounts seem insignificant unless one keeps in mind the fact that few students spend money on athletic contests except during the football season, when special trains to distant cities are called into service in order to transport the Davidson boys to the scene of other colleges.

An overwhelming majority of students expressed a belief that participation in athletics did not interfere with their scholarship. Only 35 members of the student body admitted that athletic interests were damaging to their scholastic standing, with 295 declaring emphatically that athletics played no part in their classroom failures. A corresponding majority stated that attending games and pep meetings did not interfere with their studies, although a number of lower classmen were apparently opposed to compulsory attendance at pep meetings and athletic contests as a result of the time lost from their studies.

The answers which were received in response to the inquiry, “In your opinion, is gambling among students prevalent in connection with athletic contests?” were highly encouraging. Indications were that only a very small minority of Davidson students participated in any form of gambling, with more than 250 of the 331 replies declaring that there was positively no form of gambling at Davidson in connection with the athletic contests.

At the request of the Fact-Finding Committee, none of the suggested remedies for the lack of interest in physical exercises at Davidson have been divulged. It is generally understood, however, that the forms suggested by the students will receive the serious and immediate consideration of the faculty and administrators.

PAIR OF PEPPY CONCERTS (Continued from page 1)

school students and people of the town. The auditorium of the high school was well filled, and the entertainment much enjoyed by all. Immediately after the concert, the club returned to Davidson. According to Withers, advance manager, programs will probably be given, in the near future, at Mooresville, Statesville, Lenoir, and Denver.

Some men are born profane; some acquire profanity; others play golf.

Vice-President-Elect of Queen’s College Speaks to Students at Vespers

Dr. L. W. Jarman Talks to Students on “The Abundant Tomorrows”

“You will be successful tomorrow just in so far as you understand the truth of two great laws,” declared Dr. L. W. Jarman, head of the Department of Mathematics in Chicora College, at Columbia, S.C., and vice-president-elect of Queens College, as he spoke at the “Y” vespers last Sunday evening. The subject of Dr. Jarman’s talk was “The Abundant Tomorrows,” the Scripture reading being taken from John 10:1-10, laying especial emphasis on the last verse, “I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly.”

By way of introduction, Dr. Jarman compared colleges to dams. Just as water, although stopped in its onward course for a time, grows and increases in power and usefulness when held back by a dam, so a student’s chances of expression in the world are checked for a time by his college training only to grow mightily in power and usefulness.

"The first great law which you must understand in order to be successful is the Law of Growth. A thing that grows, grows not from what it was yesterday or the day before, but from what it is today. When a man steps out into the world, one determining factor of his success is: Will he continue to grow? Short cuts, while expedient, do not pay, for there are no shortcuts in God’s great law of growth.

"The second great law which you must understand in order to be successful is the Law of Faith. The Law of Faith is the exercise of the soul by which a man’s soul reaches out and grasps its ultimate in the unseen. Every department of human endeavor finds its end in the postulate of human faith. Every achievement of human knowledge and every department of human endeavor is acquired in educational lines on faith that the law of averages will continue to operate in the future. In mathematics, for instance, faith is required.

"Faith is required in athletic lines. Don’t you know that each man on a football team has infinite faith that each of his teammates will do his dead-level best, and knows that they have the same faith in him?

"The greatest tragedy of all the ages is for a man highIn his special line of endeavor, and who has limitless faith in his own line, he is the most inconsistent and practically every other, to disclaim faith in religion. of the inconsistent. “Men, this is the challenge, to strengthen your faith and to prepare your life to grow into a more abundant life, which the Saviour has said he came to bring.”

RICH HONORED WITH BID
(Continued from page 1)

scholastically but in other phases of campus life. Phi Beta Kappa, the oldest continuous fraternity, was founded at William and Mary's College, Virginia, in 1776. Phi Beta Kappa was founded as a purely social fraternity, but at the time of its founding, it had only five members and one chapter. Now, its members number many of the prominent intellectual men of the country, and there are more than 100 chapters.

According to a ruling of the fraternity, only one-eighth of the graduating class is eligible for membership, and since only four men were taken in last fall, it was thought that more than one man would be honored this spring. He is better known to his many friends on campus as “Billy.” He is the leader on the campus and has been during his life at Davidson College. He is the fifth man of the present Senior class to be voted into Phi Beta Kappa, which indicates his scholastic ability. “Billy” takes an active interest in the Volunteer Band and is a former president of that band and still takes a leading part in its councils. He is also a member of the International Relations Club and is a pianist of no mean ability. Billy also takes a real interest in the Y. M. C. A. work and has helped to build and keep up the interest and work of the “Mill Chapel” started by the “Y” for the mill people.

The time of the secret and public initiation has not yet been announced, nor has the speaker for the occasion been selected. Both will be announced later.

Capt. Weems to Aid Men Wishing to Attend Camp

Capt. Geo. H. Weems, who is in charge of military training at Davidson College, has been placed in charge of assisting young men from the following counties who desire to attend the Citizens’ Military Training Camps: Alleghany, Iredell, Davidson, Stokes, Surry, Wilkes, and Yadkin. Enrollment in the camps for this summer was formally opened at District Headquarters on March 1st. These camps, which will be the largest in the history of the country, will be held throughout the Corps Area from June 15 to July 14, and will be open to young men of moral character, between 17 and 24. Captain Weems will supply application blanks to any who may wish to attend the camps this summer.

The object of the Citizens’ Military Training Camps is to bring together young men of high type from all sections of the country on a common basis of equality and under the most favorable conditions of outdoor life; to stimulate and promote citizenship, patriotism, and Americanism; and through expert physical direction, athletic coaching, and military training, to benefit the young men individually, and bring them to realize their obligation to their country.

At the time the United States entered the World War, it was found that practically no officers had training and experience to lead the men into battle. The result of this was that many American soldiers lost their lives needlessly, for they were led by officers who had had only a smattering of military science and no practical experience. Realizing this to be the case, in 1920 Congress established the Citizens’ Military Training Camps, so that men all over the country might be trained in the sciences of military tactics and strategic fighting, in case this country became involved in another war.

The C. M. T. C. offers four courses: the Red, White, and Blue. Each of these, in the order named, takes up the art of scientific warfare in further detail, and the prize offered as a reward for the completion of the four courses is a commission in the army of the United States. Courses may be taken in cavalry, infantry, or field or coast artillery. All students will be assigned to the camp nearest their home except graduates of the White course who have been recommended for the Blue course and will be sent to the camp last attended. Applicants under 21 years of age must have the consent of their parents. All applicants must be protected against smallpox and typhoid. Attendance at any of the courses does not constitute a present or future contract of enlistment in the army of the United States. As stated, however, a graduate of a Blue course is eligible for appointment as an officer in the Officers’ Reserve Corps.

If the parent is looking for a camp to send his son or if the young man is looking for a place to have a good time this summer, and incidentally learn something that will be beneficial to him and to his country, there is no better place than the Citizens’ Military Training Camp. Each day's activities are so planned as to present a well-balanced program. There will be just enough physical exercise, drills, and games to keep the strong young bodies fit, and young brains alert so that they can grasp the instruction more readily and with greater enthusiasm. The moral side of the young man’s instruction will also receive due attention. Each camp will have its chaplains of practically every denomination, who will serve just as the pastor of the churches, visiting students in their tents, lecturing upon inspiring topics, and holding religious services in the camp chapels on the Sabbath.

Natural tobacco taste, what a world of meaning in each word! The natural purity of fine tobaccos made to yield character. That’s how good the “natural” is! Chesterfield—and yet, they’re MILD of taste and you can’t stop it! Sales figures for 1926 are proof enough—what men want in a cigarette is natural tobacco taste.