THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 15, 1927

Military and Athletic Honors

Dr. A. A. McGeachy Stricken Aboard Homeric During Return From Europe

The many friends of Dr. A. A. McGeachy, '91, will be grieved to learn of his serious illness at his
home in Charlotte to which he was brought last week after being stricken on the liner Homeric. Dr. McGeachy, in
company with his wife, was returning from Europe, where he had been touring since early in the spring, and was
to have taken up active work at the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, of which he is pastor, upon his
return to North Carolina.

A cablegram from Mrs. McGeachy to friends in Charlotte told of Dr. McGeachy's serious illness, and two Charlotte physicians went
at once to New York to meet the steamer and to minister to him. He was taken from the boat
to a New York hospital, where he remained until last Friday, being permitted by hospital officials to accompany his physicians
to Charlotte at that time.

He arrived in Charlotte on Saturday morning, and his condition was believed to be much improved. A sudden turn for
the worse Saturday evening, however, led attending physicians to state that it would probably be six weeks before he is
able to sit up again, and that he is not likely to be able to resume active pastoral work before
the first of the new year.

Dr. McGeachy was graduated from Davidson in the spring of 1891. He was later a student at Union Theological Seminary.
The degree of Doctor of Divinity was bestowed upon him by Davidson some years after the completion of his theological
training. Since his return to Charlotte to assume the pastorate of the Second Presbyterian Church, Dr. McGeachy has been in
close touch with the college and has been numbered among its most loyal alumni. Last fall he delivered the principal
address at the home-coming celebration for alumni and the dedication of the new Richardson stadium just prior to the Davidson-Carolina
football game.

The many friends of Dr. McGeachy among the students, faculty, and alumni of the college are wishing him a speedy
and complete recovery.

Small Sum Needed to Finish Chambers

Dean J. P. Williams, who arranged the orientation week program, and other faculty members are gratified over the results of
the program.

"Forty thousand dollars is needed to start construction of the new Chambers building," said Dr. W. J. Martin, president of
Davidson College. The board of trustees in a recent meeting authorized college officials to let the contract when a total
of $300,000 is available, and since that time small sums amounting to $10,000 have been received. The plans are ready
for final criticism and will be ready for use very quickly after the money is received.

Asked when he thought the actual work would begin on the building, Dr. Martin replied that "I sincerely hope it
will be begun this fall." "It all depends, of course," he added, "upon the receipt of the money, but we
hope that some friend of Davidson or some friend of education in general will give the balance needed so that
work can begin immediately."

Chambers building, when finally completed, will entail an expenditure of $600,000, and will be used solely for administrative and classroom
purposes. The structure was ravaged by fire in 1921, and since that time Davidson College officials have been endeavoring to
raise sufficient money to replace it on a modern scale. One wing was completed in 1924 at a cost of
$200,000, while the other two sections will cost $400,000. It was originally planned to use only $400,000 to replace Chambers,
but college authorities recognized the need of having a larger and more substantial building, and are thus putting $200,000 more
into the structure.

McRae and Appleby Speak

From his own experience, McRae pointed out the great trial one has to go through in order to build up
the real Christian. At home, boys are under the guidance of parents, friends, and loved ones, while at school the
boys are "on their own" and the man depends entirely upon the individual. Thus begins the struggle—to learn the great
lesson of choosing for oneself, making up one's own mind, and following the dictates of one's own conscience regardless of
any obstacles that might present themselves.

Often the idea is formed that when one is at a school like our own Davidson that God is pleased
with the school itself and that anything one might desire to do there would be perfectly all right. But this
is entirely the wrong conception. It causes the shipping of more than one boy every year who might have been
a success for himself, his school, and his God. The responsibility of the student should at all times be remembered:
the duty to the folks at home, who in many cases are making great sacrifices for the boy, the duty
to one's fellow man, and the duty to oneself. The student was urged to ever keep the future in mind
and build steadily toward it.

In closing, McRae urged all Davidson men to do good.

Military and Athletic Honors

Davidson College won many honors at Camp McClellan this past summer. Among the individual championships, Bob Lowrance was first in
boxing and wrestling in his weight. Julian Lake took second place in boxing in his division. Alf Brand in the
track and field sports took third place in the hundred-yard dash.

In the team championships, Davidson captured second place in wrestling with 19 points. In boxing, Davidson took fourth place. In
the track and field events, Davidson did not place very high due to the small number of men representing the
school. In baseball, the Davidson team was eliminated by the University of Georgia.

The Davidson College Rifle Team won the 8th Infantry Shooting Cup which is given each year by the 8th Infantry
to the college that has the highest average. The average is determined by taking the total score and dividing by
the number of men on the team, with the college then with the highest number of points getting the cup.
Davidson's average was two points higher than any other college which participated. In the five-man team shooting championship, the University
of Georgia was second, only five points behind.

Davidson College also won third in the rating for the general efficiency cup. This cup is given to the college
that has the highest score in efficiency, the rating of each college being made according to every phase of the
work, which includes athletics, shooting, discipline, and sportsmanship. Out of a possible one thousand points, Davidson had approximately eight hundred
and fifty points. Only five points separated Davidson from the winner of the cup.

Davidson's showing is particularly very fine by the officers of the R. O. T. C. here, and also by the
officers of the camp.

LET US TAKE CARE OF YOUR INSURANCE NEEDS!
Expert advice
Efficient service
Fair adjustments
Prompt Settlement

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.Davidson had only a contingent of 22 men, Clemson had 170, and Louisiana State had 85. Davidson made
a better showing than many colleges with more men at the camp. Practically all of the Senior colleges in the
4th Corps Area were represented at Camp McClellan, also many of the Junior R.O.T.C. colleges were represented. Among the colleges
that sent men to the camp were: Clemson, Louisiana State, U. of Georgia, Georgia Tech, U. of Alabama, Mississippi A.
& M., Citadel, Wofford, North Georgia Agricultural College, U. of Tennessee, and U. of Florida.

The camp lasted for six weeks from the 8th of June to the 21st of July. Camp McClellan is located
near Anniston, Ala. According to Lieutenant Otto, of the R.O.T.C. staff of Davidson, the Davidson men made a better impression
than any other college, the men by their general conduct, sportsmanship, and willingness to get out and work, and get
behind anything with a spirit of fight hard, win or lose, made a fine record for Davidson College.

Jim Appleby, the Y.M.C.A. Secretary, after a few opening words of welcome, gave the theme of his talk as “Living
it as Well as Believing it.” He took as a text the 14th verse of the 2nd chapter of James,
“What does it profit, my brethren, if a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save
him?” Jim then brought out that religion must be lived as well as believed. Often religion is regarded as a
series of “Thou shalt nots” and not as applying to many little things as well as to the big ones.
Often one thinks to avoid evil by saying “I won't,” but the true way to avoid it is to do
some good somewhere, for in serving others one serves man, God, and himself. That is the purpose of the “Y”—to
enable boys to have a field in which to serve and to aid them in their religious life. There are
many ways in which one can help someone else and if one will only look for them, they can be
found everywhere. As a closing illustration, Jim pictured a car going up a hill. It cannot gain the top or
keep from slipping unless it keeps moving. Thus a person cannot keep going upward toward a higher goal or keep
from slipping downward unless one keeps moving.

On Wednesday morning at 8:30 the program was continued, being opened by devotional exercises and a talk on “The Place
of Religion in College Life,” by Dr. Moffett. He used as his subject the text, “Seek ye first the kingdom
of God.” Dr. Moffett strongly urged his listeners to make a place in their lives for God. Following Dr. Moffett's
talk, Boyce Martin told the new men of the Davidson Honor System, and the traditions behind it. The Wednesday morning
program was concluded with a very timely talk by Jim Appleby, “Y” secretary, on “Fraternities and Outside Activities.”

Dean M. E. Sentelle opened the afternoon program at 2:15 with a talk on “College Regulations.” He brought out strongly
the importance of prompt and regular attendance on college duties. Professor Fleagle, speaking on “The Use of Time,” developed the
theme of systematic studying in college. He declared that a great many college students fail when they think they don’t
have enough time, but in reality, it is a misuse of their time. The last meeting was held at 7:30
Wednesday night. Timely advice was given the new men by Mr. F. L. Jackson, on “Handling Money and the Care
of College Property.” He brought out how the college had advanced and improved in the past years, and how its
continued improvement rested largely in the hands of the students. Dr. Fraser Hood, Professor of Psychology, speaking on “How to
Study,” gave many helpful suggestions to the students.

In closing the orientation program for the new men, Dr. W. J. Martin, President of Davidson, delivered a very clear-cut
and forceful address on “What Davidson Can Mean to a Student.” “The greatest thing that Davidson College offers a student,”
he declared, “is opportunity, and the use of this opportunity depends almost entirely upon the individual.” Dr. Martin told his
listeners that a teacher “cannot teach you to think, but they can, by certain offerings and efforts, induce you to
develop an inclination toward thought. What you obtain in Davidson, surrounded by opportunity,” he continued, “depends on your desire to
profit, and your determination to make the most of it.”

Professor A. C. Gorr, having done both graduate and post-graduate work at the University of Pennsylvania, finished in 1925 and
has since then been teaching in Nazareth High School, of Nazareth, Pennsylvania. At Davidson, he will teach Greek and German.
Professor J. P. Moore, who will teach French, is a graduate of Washington and Lee, and has, during the past
summer, been studying in Sorbonne, France. Professor Lewis B. Schenck, a Davidson man who has attended Union and Princeton Theological
Seminaries, will teach Bible. Professor J. A. Crow, University of North Carolina and Mexico, will teach Spanish. Dr. W. P.
Cumming, also a Davidson man, has attended Princeton and Oxford and taught at Williams College, Williamstown, Mass., and returns to
us as professor in English. Professor P. M. Patterson, of Davidson and the University of North Carolina, will teach Biology.
Three instructors in the sciences have been added, eliminating student assistance in the laboratories. They are L. A. Wooten, Chemistry,
Davidson and the University of North Carolina; H. H. Roseberry, Physics, Davidson and the University of Virginia; W. O. Puckett,
Biology, Davidson and the University of North Carolina.
