THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1927

Harllee Branch Speaks To Charlotte Luncheon Group About Athletics

Civitan Club Hears of Davidson’s Football Progress

LAUDS COACHES

Coaches, Players, Students and Tradition Necessary for Production of Winning College Teams

“Davidson Athletics” was the subject of a speech delivered before the Civitan Club of Charlotte last Friday noon by Harllee
Branch, Assistant Alumni Secretary at Davidson College. This speech was a part of the program of the regular weekly meeting
of the Civitans and was made at the request of Mr. A. L. Foul, manager of the Carolina Sporting Goods
Co., and program chairman of the Civitan Club.

In his speech, which dealt mainly with football, Mr. Branch spoke of Davidson’s first football team in 1897, when the
University of South Carolina was defeated 6-0, but when Davidson was humbled by the University of North Carolina by a
10-0 score. He then came up through the years to 1918, relating Davidson’s victories and defeats. In 1918, however, the
material was poor and inexperienced, and the team began to slump. Enthusiasm waned, and teams that had been literally swamped
in the past began to defeat Davidson.

Mr. Branch then spoke of the coming of a new era with the arrival of Coaches Younger and Tilson. With
their coming, the Davidson team seemed to take a new lease on life, and although the first year was a
period of transition, the football fans throughout the state began to realize that Davidson was coming out of her slump.
Since 1923, the teams have been fighting hard, winning some games, losing others, until last year with a mighty burst
of speed, the Wildcats clambered to the top of the ladder, and crouched growling over a State Championship.

Mr. Branch talked of the spirit of the team and the student body, concluding with these words: “You ask me
what worked to the success of Davidson, and I answer quickly: Two coaches with a clean ideal of sportsmanship, a
great deal of clever psychology, an uncanny understanding of human nature and gridiron technique—coaches who have threatened to resign if
they once heard of a student betting for or against his team, men who know the power of bought athletes
but look with displeasure on such tactics—men who like victory, but sportsmanship more. Two coaches, yes—and then a team of
hard-working, devoted, clean-living players. Davidson’s raw material is mediocre—her finished product is individually nothing to boast of in comparison with
the great North Carolina grid warriors. Collectively, however, her team is as good as the rest—demonstrating an earnestness of purpose,
a devotion to college, and a tenacity of will that really is more desirable than individual experts and stars. Two
coaches, a team, and a student body—that backs their team in victory and defeat, and think it has the best
team in the world regardless of its success. But there is another factor, coaches, players, students—then, tradition. You can fight
harder and longer and more gloriously when you've got a background, and Davidson has that. Her team may not win
the state championship, it may finish a bad third or fourth—but, you can bet your last dollar that it has
lived up to its traditions, and it’s done its best. That’s enough—after all.”

TUESDAY NIGHT—TERMINATION (Continued from page 1)

Davidson; R. C. King, Nashville, Tenn.; J. S. Meacham, Birmingham; R. Z. Johnson, Barium Springs; W. B. Hancock, Bluefield, W.
Va.

Phi Gamma Delta—R. L. Sutliff, Shippensburg, Penn.; C. A. Sisson, Winona, Miss.; F. G. Jenkins, Winston-Salem; J. D. McCall, Salisbury;
A. R. Bird, Jr., Washington, D.C.

Kappa Sigma—A. H. Shepard, Wilmington; D. S. LaFar, Gastonia; R. S. Overman, Guilford, N. C.; A. D. Bethea, Dillon, S.
C.; J. K. Pepper, Jr., Winston-Salem; Charles Glenn, Gastonia; Laurinburg; G. W. George, Decatur, Ga.; R. C. Wilson, Marion, N.
C.

Pi Kappa Phi—M. P. Gilmour, Wilmington; J. M. Baird, Jr., Oxford, N. C.; A. F. Carr, Jr., Savannah, Ga.; P.
R. Alderman, Jr., Alcolu, S. C.; R. S. Hall, Covington, Tenn.; J. V. Middleton, Mobile, Ala.

Reno The Magician Mystifies Audience

Edward Reno, the magician, appeared in Shearer Hall, Wednesday night, giving a clever exhibition of legerdemain. His tricks were of
many types and his skill in the execution of them kept his audience in eager expectation during the entire performance.
This attraction was brought to the college through the efforts of the Junior class in an effort to raise funds
to assist in the defraying of expenses attached to the festivities which are planned for the spring months.

Reno travels under the direction of the Redpath organization and has an assortment of tricks, up-to-date illusions and sleight-of-hand magic
that places him in the forefront of his profession. Not the least enjoyable feature of his performance was the running
fire of comment with which he enlivened his working. These fragmentary remarks were full of fun and wit, with flash
after flash of good-tempered satire aimed at himself or his work. Reno is a man of fine personality and engaging
stage presence, with a keen mentality and an artistic appreciation of the success he has achieved in his profession.

Cartersville, Ga.; J. C. Berry, Griffin, Ga.; E. M. Carroll, Louisville, Ky.; J. H. Foil, Salisbury; S. C. Scales, Starkville,
Miss.

Delta Theta Chi—G. E. McClenaghan, Florence, S. C.; W. B. Goodson, Lincolnton; R. E. Witt, Eldorado, Ark.; C. H. Goodykoontz,
Bluefield, W. Va.; C. W. Wharton, Smithfield, N. C.; F. H. Salters, Florence, S. C.

Pyramid Club—Frank Pilcher, Jr., Charleston, W. Va.; G. W. Pay, DeLand, Fla.; J. E. Weeks, Hertford, N. C.; James Humphreys,
Moultrie, Ga.; C. W. Kuykendall, Charleston, W. Va.

Sigma Delta—R. C. Lynn, Jr., Chattanooga, Tenn.; J. L. Hall, Burlington; W. L. Burke, Burlington; J. H. Henderlite, Gastonia; C.
H. Farrell, Jr., Dunn, N. C.H. F. Michael, Gastonia, PRESS CONVENTION (Continued from page 1)

Friday afternoon the delegates attended the first of the State College pledge dances. Friday night the association held its annual
formal banquet, after which the press representatives were entertained at the fraternity dance at Frank Thompson Gym, State College. Saturday
morning the convention was divided into groups for specialized study of the various phases of college newspaper work. This was
the most helpful part of the convention for in these conferences the various problems confronting the various publications were discussed.
The Saturday morning session was closed with an address by J. L. Horne, Jr., president of the North Carolina Associated
Press Club. The convention officially adjourned Saturday at noon, but the delegates were once more entertained by the college, this
time in the way of the State-Carolina football game. The royal entertainment furnished by State College and the people of
Raleigh, the discussions regarding every phase of a successful publication, and the valuable suggestions given the delegates by speakers who
are old-timers in the news world, all contributed to the greatest convention the association has held.

Davidson was represented by Walter Lingle, Jr. He is associate editor of The Davidsonian and feature editor of Quips and
Cranks, and has been outstanding in his interest and work in publications at Davidson.

He—"I'll be late tonight. I’ve got to write a persuasive letter home before I come.”
Hisn—“I thought you'd already written home once this week. Why the sudden interest this week?”
He—“Dough, dough, dough, de, oh, dough.”

COLLEGE POEM

Matriculation Examination Elimination, Cinema Specialization Suggested as Course for Colleges

Utilitarians who have been spending a few happy years berating the universities for their failure to deal in the practical,
may now be of good cheer. The inevitable has come to be, and the University of Southern California, keeping step
with the march of civilization, has introduced a four-year course of training for the motion-picture industry. The specified course of
study includes architecture and fine arts, technique of cinematography, and composition, literature and criticism. As outlined, the study will deal
with the technical phases of the motion picture industry. Hollywood has not yet been mentioned in connection with the cultural
innovation.

The New York World gives proof of its interest in Southern California’s venture by submitting a proposed curriculum. This, in
part, follows:

“Cinema 2b. Osculation. While some instruction is given in theory, this is primarily a laboratory course. During the first semester
the student will work under the direction of the instructor; during the second he will be required to perform one
original experiment, to be not less than 100-film feet in length. Eight hours a week, to count as 4. Prof.
Richard Barthelmes.

“Cinema 3a. Understudying. How to substitute for Rin Tin Tin without running foul of the dog-catcher. 1 hour a week.
Prof. Lon Chaney.”

In the meantime, registrants in the new course might begin their work by studying “The Drop Kick,” with Richard Barthelmes
and the ten college men who were selected last spring in a nation-wide search for cinema talent. They may begin
a reform movement right at home.—The New Student.

“Aspasia, may I print a kiss on thy lips?”
“Yes, dearest Aristol. When do we go to press?”

Matches Arranged For Sharpshooters

Plans for the rifle team for the present year were recently announced by Capt. Julian Lake, of Company B, director
of rifle firing. Several matches with other institutions have been arranged and an open contest for students will also be
conducted. Some 50 men are now practicing rifle firing and others would probably be taking part but for the limited
space in the gallery. Lake states that 10 or 15 matches will be held with other colleges and institutions, among
which are Florida, V. M. I., Citadel and the civilian team from Gastonia. The open match for members of the
student body will be held at an early date, exact time to be announced later. Members of the R. O.
T. C. unit and also other marksmen from the students will compete for a silver loving cup which will be
awarded to the winner of this match. Lake, who was captain of the rifle team at Camp McClellan, has other
plans for the year along these same lines, but withholds further plans until complete arrangements are made.

He—“My life is an open book.”
She—“I know, but it’s not good reading for a girl.”

“Where yo’ all goin’, niggah?”
“Ah’s been rushed by Tri Kappa.”
“What yo’ all mean, Tri Kappa?”
“K, K. K.,” niggah.

Smith—“I don’t know whether it was your wife or not. I don’t know her very well.”
Jones—“Did she have a short dress?”
Smith—“I didn’t notice the dress.”
Jones—“Then it wasn’t my wife.”

Professor—“This lecture is apt to be somewhat embarrassing. If any men or women care to leave they may.”
“Stewd” in back of room—“Professor, may I invite some of my friends?”

Ain't It a Grand and Glorious Feelin’?
By BRIGGS

MO: WHEN THE BOSS OFFERS TO DROP YOU AT YOUR HOME ON HIS WAY TO THE COUNTRY CLUB AND WHEN
HE GETS TO YOUR HUMBLE SHACK ASKS TO USE YOUR TELEPHONE AND HE FINDS HIS CIGARETTE CASE IS EMPTY WHILE
WAITING ON A BUSY LINE AND YOU OFFER HIM ONE OF YOUR CIGARETTES WITH SOME HESITANCY, KNOWING THAT HE SMOKES
AN IMPORTED BRAND AND THEN HE PRAISES YOUR TASTE IN CIGARETTES TO THE SKIES

OLD GOLD

THIS IS A GREAT CIGARETTE, MR. SLAKER, AND NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD

WHAT BRAND IS IT, OH—BOY! AIN'T IT A GR-R-RAND AND GLOR-R-R-RIOUS FEELIN’?

The Smoother and Better Cigarette not a cough in a carload ©1927, P. Lorillard Co., Inc.
