THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1927

Davidsonian Reporters and Members Prominent Citizen of Davidson Dead

Funeral services for Mr. W. H. Cranford, who died here Monday about noon, were held in the Presbyterian church at
Davidson Tuesday afternoon at 3 o'clock, being conducted jointly by Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean of Davidson College, and Dr.
C. M. Richards, former pastor of the church here. Interment followed immediately in the cemetery at Davidson.

The death of Mr. Cranford occurred following an intermittent illness that has extended since Christmas. He recently underwent two operations,
and his condition was greatly improved, but then pneumonia and neuritis set in, and his weakened condition could not stand
the ravages of the diseases. Sunday he appeared better, but a relapse occurred Monday from which he did not revive.

He is survived by his wife and eight children, Misses Minnie Cranford and Charlotte Cranford, both of Charlotte; Mrs. C.
E. Herrick, of Providence, R. I.; Mrs. Claudius Dockery, Jr., of Charlotte; E. M. Cranford, of St. Petersburg, Fla.; Spencer
R. Cranford, of Charlotte; Wilson H. Cranford, of Rockingham, and Dr. J. F. Cranford, of St. Petersburg, Fla. All were
at his bedside when death occurred.

Manly Wilson Cranford was born Sept. 6, 1860, in Catawba County. He came to Davidson when he was 20 years
of age and has remained here since that time. For thirty years he was a merchant, and for nine years
acted as postmaster. Lately he has been in the insurance business.

He was connected with the Masonic fraternity and was a deacon in the Presbyterian church here. Active pallbearers at the
funeral were G. S. Brooks, Prof. A. V. Goldiere, H. Y. Harper, P. R. Maulden, R. M. Menzies, W. E.
Phifer, J. W. Reid, and L. C. Wadsworth, all members of Theta Upsilon Omega fraternity, which organization is using Mr.
Cranford's home as a fraternity house. Other members acted as an escort. Honorary pallbearers were Messrs. Tom Shelton and C.
W. Johnson, of Charlotte; Rev. C. W. Maxwell, of South Boston, Va.; Avery Hobbs, McConnell, Archie Brown, Frank Knox, and
Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson; Dr. W. R. Grey, Dr. C. R. Harding, Dr. E. F. Reid, and
Jesse J. Withers, all of Davidson.

DAVIDSON RIFLE TEAM FAILS TO PLACE IN RECENT MATCH

The schedule for the Davidson Rifle Team has almost been completed. The Fourth Corps Area match is over, some of
the leading colleges and universities of the South having taken part. The following table shows the results of the Intercollegiate
Gallery Match just completed.

Institution Score
Georgia Tech 7071
University of Georgia 7581
Wofford College 7581
University of Tennessee 7545
Mississippi A&M 7528
University of Florida 7494
North Carolina State 7464
Davidson College 7416
University of Alabama 7414
Tulane University 7306
North Georgia Agricultural College 7257
Clemson 7203

Although Davidson did not come first, we by no means came in last. The team composed of five letter men
for this year, Vance S. W., Ramsey, Webb, Gudger, and Lennon, will represent Davidson in a National Intercollegiate competition for
a trophy given by William Randolph Hearst. This trophy is open to all colleges having an R. O. T. C.
Unit. The firing will take place Monday and Tuesday, March the 14th and 15th. The Gastonia Rifle Club has invited
the team to come to Gastonia and fire a match with them on Wednesday night. Five men are making the
trip. The representatives of the Club were here last week and were very much interested in the rifles of the
R. O. T. C. Department. The freshmen started firing on the two hundred yard range Monday afternoon. The results have
so far been satisfactory and a good record is expected of the class. After the first few shots, one catches
the spirit of the thing and hates to stop. Of course, the pits are different and Dr. McConnell has had
an unusual number with sunburned tonsils this week, but he thinks they will all live. Everyone that has fired so
far has caught the spirit of the slogan, “Let’s make America a nation of Riflemen.”

Glee Club Performance Staged in Nearby Town

Hurried Visit to Lincolnton for One Night Performance

The Davidson College Glee Club made a trip to Lincolnton Tuesday night, making a one-night stand and continuing the plans
made for their trips throughout the northern part of the state. The trip was made in cars, leaving Davidson about
2:30 Tuesday and arriving in Lincolnton in time for the performance that night. The club was met by an enthusiastic
group of local people who received them very cordially.

Staff Addressed by Prof. Erwin

In the absence of a regular course in journalism, the faculty have been giving short lectures to the Davidsonian staff
and reporters. Professor Erwin gave the second of these talks Monday night with the special subject of Feature Writing. Professor
Erwin stated as one of his salient points that in this special phase of newspaper writing, the ability of the
reporter made the article, no matter what his subject happens to be. To bring out some of the points in
his lecture, Professor Erwin took an article written by a former Davidson student, Mr. Fred Smith, editor of the Davidsonian
last year and now connected with one of the prominent Gastonia papers. Following this article, it was pointed out that
in a feature article certain characteristics predominate. First, a feature article is not intended primarily as news to the general
public. However, it should be timely, should bring out unusual circumstances, must have human interest, and above all, it must
be well written. It reflects quite an honor upon Davidson in general, and the Davidsonian in particular, that the article
of a former student of the Davidsonian should be taken as a model for feature writers among the undergraduates. Professor
Erwin brought out the most interesting fact that here alone, of all newspaper writing, the style was in no way
stereotyped. In fact, he said that the success of the article depended upon the unique matters of style and personality
with which the author wrote the story. Feature articles may have for their source any number of unique events. Matters
of personal interest, “bright little stories,” special matters, friendly council, and almost any investigation of any number of other things
may give origin to a feature story. The fact that the unique story is now most in demand among all
journalism was well brought out.Performance was given under the auspices of the High School Annual and the profit accruing went
toward paying the cost of this publication. A packed but small house greeted the troupers and each number was very
favorably received. One of the best receptions of the season was accorded to the amateur merrymakers from the lair of
the Wildcat; the Jazz Orchestra especially was much appreciated. Many encores were received by various members of the Club and
this proved very encouraging to the players.

Week-End Guests

Shewmake, Rev. W. M. Hunter, Dr. J. W. McConnell, Dr. Saturday afternoon every bus, motor car, and train that came
to, or through, Davidson, stopped to let out a bevy of girls (both blonde and brunette) who had come to
attend one of the house parties which the various fraternities were staging. The girls who were the guests of the
different fraternities were:

Beta Pi—Misses Rebe Converse, Greenville; “Mutt” Robinson, “Dee” Haskins, Reidsville; Winnie Craver, Charlotte; Isabelle Bunn, Salem; Phillis Albright, Katherine Carsgrave,
Raleigh.

Kappa Alpha—Alice Littlejohn, Rising Perrine, Martha Ereckman, Converse; “Kat” Redfern, Sarah Asherait, Celeste Armfield, N.C. C. W.; Melba McMahon, Billie
McMahon, Emma Cothran, Jeter, Charlotte; Miss Williams, Rice; Winthrop; Mary Spence Love, Salem.

Kappa—Misses Kalista Hood, Davidson; Elna Carson, Betty Dunlop, Winthrop; Elizabeth Wharton, Queens; Horn, Mocksville.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Misses “Pep” Theta Anderson, Jones, Pegues, Gastonia; Evelyn Agnes Sigma—Regina Misses Lois Dobson, Marion Shaw, Greensboro; “Lib” Transue,
Salem; “Lib” Simpson, Mary Jones, Converse; Eleanor McKinnon, Hartsville; Alice Barbee, High Point; Annie Laurie Macey, Thomasville, Ga.; Rosalie Wylie,
Nancy Little, N. C. C. W.; Withers, Northrup, Louise Morris, Concord.

Phi Gamma Delta—Misses Anne Cannon, Jennie Brown, Salem; “Joe” Klutz, Hazel Hudson, Emilie Ridoute, N.C. C. W.; Craigie Pegram, Ida
Allison, Queens; Alice Dunklee, Winston Salem; Zora Foy, Reidsville, N.C.; Peg Witherspoon, Salisbury; Mildred Thompson, Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Misses Florence Burton, Elizabeth Van Leer, Converse; Melba Johnson, Greenville; Lillian Montgomery, Winthrop; Carrie Vernon Renfrow, Queens; Elizabeth
Hayden, High Point; Louise Thompson, Salem; Alice Poole, Gastonia.

Pi Kappa Phi—Misses Windham Ashe, Raleigh; Wilma Kuck, Ethel Perkins, Maxine Ferran, N.C. C. W.; “Piggy” Newell, Greensboro; Elizabeth Glidewell,
Reidsville; Elizabeth Fowler, Isla Rust, “Scottie” Johnston, Charlotte; “Kat” Parrish, Lib Magee, Winston Salem; Polly Moore, York, S.C.; Lucy Powell,
Converse.

Sigma Delta—Misses Tempie McCurdy, Phylis Rogers, N.C. C. W.; Elinor Cathcart, Queens; Ha Hoover, Queens; Alice Jane Fleagle, Davidson.

Delta Theta Chi—Misses Sarah Austell, Louise Lever, Viola Scurlock, N.C. C. W.; Margaret Lilly, Mary Lilly, Greensboro; Gene Craig, Mary
Anderson, Mary Oates, Charlotte; Evelyn Schieder, Shelby; Bobbie Strain, Athens; “Sis” Lonon, Marion, N.C., Greensboro.

This bunch of concerted house parties is probably the last that will be had on the “Hill” until Junior Speaking
at which time all the fraternities are planning to have the best house parties ever had at Davidson in an
effort to help the juniors put this Speaking over better than ever before.

Student assent has been given to the proposal to do away with lectures at Rollins College. The innovation was proposed
by President Hamilton Holt, former editor of The Independent. Instead of coming to classes for lectures, the students will attend
to study. The usual 60-minute period will be lengthened to two hours. The students will study in classes under the
guidance of the professor and in constant consultation with him, the purpose being to place academic life on a more
practical basis by placing class attendance on a par with the hours and duties of a business office.

A majority of the students were favorably impressed with the idea; some objections, however, were raised. The principal doubts were
as follows: Professors who have not adapted themselves to the changed condition and make use of the two-hour period to
deliver an extended lecture, outside work continuing as before; the problem of the working student and that of the athlete
who suffers from overstuffed schedules; the necessarily doubled number of conflicts, with their attendant inconveniences, as well as the uncomfortable
and impractical conditions of some recitation rooms. A more serious point raised was the question of whether or not so
radical a change in college procedure would affect the standing of Rollins in academic circles. Assurance was given by the
faculty that these difficulties would be smoothed out as the plan operates—New Student.

Let old Squire Pipe be the judge... His Honor, old Squire Pipe is unquestionably the world’s ablest judge of pipe
tobaccos. Who else is by nature, training, and experience so well-qualified to try a tobacco and hand down a decision
on it? So, in the case of Granger Rough Cut, the plea is that Judge Pipe’s verdict be accepted as
FINAL! To make a long brief brief: Character witnesses the country over have sworn to the sterling quality of Granger.
Experts have vouched for the superiority of its rough cut. Chemists have testified that the new “glassine-sealed” foil-pouch keeps the
tobacco in perfect condition. Finally, it has been shown that by using this foil-pouch (instead of a costly tin) it
is possible to sell Granger at just ten cents. On these arguments Granger rests its case! A couple of pipefuls
will convince Squire Pipe that it is the world’s greatest pipe tobacco, and any good judge of tobaccos will confirm
the decision!

GRANGER ROUGH CUT

The half-pound vacuum tin is forty-five cents; the foil-pouch, sealed in glassine is ten cents... for pipes only! Granger Rough
Cut is made by the Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company.

Spring Opening

EU HALL

Tuesday, March 22nd

Everything for the College Man

Suits, Tuxedos, extra Trousers, Knickers, Golf Hose, Socks, Ties, Hats, Underwear, Belts, Shirts, Slickers, and Shoes.

BELK BROTHERS CO.

AT CHARLOTTE, N.C.
