THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1927 — Dillard and Christian Win Places On Collegiate Team to Debate Sewanee

In the debate try-outs held last Tuesday night in Shearer Hall, William A. Christian and Tyree Dillard were selected as the varsity debaters against Sewanee. W. C. Ogden was selected as alternate debater. These men will hold forth when the Sewanee team comes here on the 29th. Henry Powell presided over the try-outs and preserved order. The judges were Professor Daniel McGrew, Professor Henry Lilly, and Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood. These were selected as judges because of their ability in this line and their fair-mindedness. The try-outs were held at 8:00 o'clock, or rather were scheduled for 8:00 but they did not start until about 8:30. They were held in Shearer Hall, the scene of many of the historic events of Davidson College. Christian was picked as the first speaker, Dillard as the second, and Ogden as the alternate. The men who tried out for the debate in addition to the above were Monroe Gilmour, Lawrence Dumas, Camp O'Neal, and Raymond Walters. All of the above have had some experience in the debating line, some on the varsity of former years and some on the Freshman teams. The question under discussion was, “Resolved, That the Volstead Act be repealed.” All of the men spoke for the negative, as Davidson will represent that side of the question. Sewanee usually has a strong team and endeavors to send its best against Davidson, as evidenced by their team last year which defeated the strong combination of Branch and Wharton. The debate will be held on the 29th of March in Shearer Hall at 8:00 o'clock. The judges have not been selected yet but will be announced in the near future.

Moffet is Called for Local Church

Rev. H. M. Moffett, D. D., at present the pastor of Vine Street Presbyterian Church, in Birmingham, Ala., is seriously considering the call which has been tendered him by the Presbyterian Church here at Davidson. Dr. Moffett filled the pulpit of the Davidson Church a few weeks ago, preaching one of the clearest and most forceful sermons of the year. He is greatly liked by the students and the congregation. He is a graduate of Southwestern University, having previously attended Centre College, where he was a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. For several years after his graduation from the University he was a traveling salesman and then went into Union Seminary for his theological course. In a letter, part of which was read in church last Sunday, by the request of Dr. Moffett, he thanked the church for the call and expressed the thought that he felt himself unequal to such a task. He said, however, he would make the matter one of much prayer and would earnestly seek guidance from above in making his decision. Before giving a definite answer, he intends to make a short trip to Davidson to look into the conditions with more care, so that he might be aided in making his answer.

Branch Brings Colorful Career

(Continued from page 1)

Harllee Branch has brought the editorial page to a wide-readable, and interesting page of present-day affairs that have an appeal to college men. He has instituted classes for the instruction of the reporters and staff at which men who have had actual experience in the lines of journalism have brought suggestions of great value. Harllee Branch has not distinguished himself in newspaper work alone, for he has been prominent in all affairs on the campus. He is an inter-collegiate debater, winning recognition in his second year and then when he debated against Sewanee last year. He has been chosen as a member of the team to meet four colleges, William and Mary, Gettysburg, Bethlehem, and Rutgers, on an extended Northern trip next week. He has been advance manager of the glee club, holding this position during his junior year; chairman of one of the most successful Junior Speakings ever held at Davidson; editor of Sanity Rare; winner of the Junior eateries; assistant manager of basketball; Student Councilman; member of Alpha Phi Epsilon and of Delta-Pi Kappa; member of Omicron Delta Kappa; president of the "Krazy Kats," student cheering organization; a leader in all forms of endeavor and a true Davidson man. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Branch is from Atlanta, Ga., and even while in high school there distinguished himself as an editor and debater. At one time he assisted in editing one of the leading Atlanta newspapers. In retiring from the editorship of The Davidsonian, he is leaving new standards to be striven for and new goals to be reached, and The Davidsonian loses a faithful, efficient and untiring worker and friend.

LOCAL TRACK TEAM SUFFERS DEFEAT

(Continued from page 2)

220 yard low hurdles—Keck, Tech, first; Frye, Davidson, second; Sims, Davidson, third; distance, 126 feet 11 1-2 inches.

After the efforts of firemen to rescue a cat which had been on a house roof at Folkstone, England, for two days, the animal dived down the chimney, landing unhurt in the sitting room fireplace, soot-covered and frightened.

Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch is a small town in Wales. Literally translated it means Church of St. Mary in a hollow of white hazel near a rapid whirlpool and near St. Tysillie’s Church which is near a red cave.

The last census gave New York City 887,000 bachelors between the ages of twenty-four and thirty-four and now the New York Y. M. C. A. has given two thousand bachelors quartered in its buildings a year in which to find a wife and home.

EAT AT THE SERVICE

THE BEST OF COOKING

Charlotte, N. C.

ASTOR LUNCH

Scotch mixtures that have just the right prewar kick. Braeburn is a master at the art of creating unusual clothing for college men - the subtle punch that pleases.

Freshman Debate Proposition Given

The Forensic Council announces that the query for the Freshman debate has recently been agreed upon by Davidson and the University.a; Pee Ris A; s 4 Ff ‘: ‘floor of East, was exceedingly pessimistic | third; time, 259 seconds. University of North Carolina, with which latter | school two teams of the Davidson Freshmen | 440 yard run—Goodykoontz, first. Hutcheson, Tech., second; Woolwine | will debate. | know I deserve it, but I feel that I am doing | And the prices won’t make | The query, as given out, | cancel the inter-allied war debts.” This is | Javelin throw—Grey, Tech., first; Mc- | After listening to the urgings of my many | the same question which will be used by the | varsity team, consisting of Harllee Branch and Don Wharton, on its Northern trip. The two teams of three men each will be produced from the try-outs which are to be held on April 12th. It is expected that a large number of contestants will enter the preliminaries. Several men have already signified their willingness to come out. The Freshman class has many able debaters in its ranks, and it is certain that strong teams will result. The judges for the preliminaries have not yet been selected. As is the usual plan, the negative team will journey to Carolina at the same time the Carolina negative team will come here to debate the affirmative of the Freshmen. The date when these debates will be staged will be announced at a later date.

This is the fourth year of Freshman debating at Davidson, the first two years resulting in split victories for Carolina and Davidson; last year being the only one in which Davidson won victories in both debates. friends, however, I've finally consented to run. Don't publish anything I say, but you may tell your readers that now my Senior derby is in the ring, it will stay there until the contest closes, and that I am going after the honor with all I’ve got, as has been my custom in the past. You may tell them also that my platform has an ‘equal rights for men’ plank in it, and that if the voters see fit to give me their support, I will devote all my energy towards placing men on a footing with women, as regards their right to powder their noses in public and so forth.” Other candidates, despite Hudgins’ assertion, expressed themselves as far from satisfied that the West Virginia candidate had an easy fight on his hands. D. O. Westbrook, late of Wilmington, announced that McDonald refused to give any opinion as to their chances, preferring to reserve their predictions until the campaign was further advanced. Fleming, however, formally thanked his supporters Monday night for their encouraging aid, which, one may presume, means a hot fight in the offing.

VARSITY NINE VICTORIOUS

Score by innings: R H E
Oak Ridge: 222 000 231 00I—7 9 7
Davidson: 201 511 00x—10 7 2

Summary: Errors: Shaw, Rand, Black, Kugler; home runs, Ferrell, Pierce; three-base hits, Ratchford, Johnson; two-base hits, Ratchford, Johnson; sacrifice hits, Rand, Howard, Johnson, McAuley; stolen bases, Johnson, Kugler; base on balls, off Ferrell 5, off Wells 3; struck out, by Ferrell 3, by Wells 3; hits, off Pierce 6 with 8 runs in 4 innings, off Bowman 1 with 2 runs in 4 innings; losing pitcher, Ferrell; left on bases, Oak Ridge 6, Davidson 5; umpire, Brandon.

FIRST TERM HONOR ROLL

(Continued from page 2)
Class Averages—Seniors, 90.14; Juniors, 88.66; Sophomores, 82.92; Freshmen, 80.12. Student Body average, 84.05. Fraternities—Kappa Alpha, 85.62; Beta Theta Pi, 85.33; Phi Gamma Delta, 85.27; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 85.16; Pi Kappa Alpha, 84.48; Theta Upsilon Omega, 84.25; Kappa Sigma, 83.42; Pi Kappa Phi, 82.62. Team Averages—Varsity Basketball, 87.38; Varsity Baseball, 86.94; Varsity Football, 86.65; Freshman Basketball, 80.75; Freshman Football, 79.85.

Passing under Mount Blanc, the highest mountain in the Alps, an underground river has recently been discovered.