6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 29, 1927

Jim Gray Out of Game With Injured Arm for Better Part of Season
Hampton or DeArmond to Replace Him in Line

The Wildcat’s brilliant victory over the Citadel Bulldogs last week was won at a rather expensive price. Mingled with the joy of winning the game was keen regret at the injury of Jim Grey, dependable center of the Wildcat eleven. The injury, resulting from an offensive play with Davidson in possession of the ball, was a dislocation of the elbow, with a small piece of bone chipped off. Grey was taken from the field to the Gastonia City Hospital where Drs. Moore, Klutz, Abel, MacConnell, and Glenn attended him. Although very painful at first, the injury is fast healing and Grey hopes to be back in the game after a period of several weeks. Doctors believe that it will be at least three weeks before the regular center can be back in the line-up, but Coach Younger expresses belief that it may be even longer. However, if the elbow continues to heal rapidly, Grey will be back at his position by the middle of the season.

Grey, who is from Hendersonville, is a Senior this year, and is regarded as one of the mainstays of the team. He is one of the eight letter men back this year, although this is his first year as a regular on the Varsity. It is hoped that his injury will rapidly improve, and turn out less severe than was at first feared. There are two men of last year’s Freshmen team, who will temporarily play at center. One is Ben DeArmond, of Charlotte, who made an excellent showing at center last year. DeArmond was sent in for the remainder of the Citadel game, and played a dependable, steady game. Another prospect for center is K. D. Hampton, of Raeford, who has been shifted from tackle. With these two men filling Grey’s position, the Wildcats are hopeful of making out until he is back in the line-up.

Dr. Martin Leaves for Philadelphia in October to Speak at Log College
C.E.T.C. Will Send Deputations Soon

The weekly meeting of the Christian Endeavor Training Class was held last Sunday afternoon at 1:45 p.m. in Shearer Hall. The leader of the class was Everette Moye, and the subject discussed was “How Christian Endeavor Serves.” A very good number were present. The program was opened by a song service in which a number of new songs were tried. After this, Fred Poag and James Jones led in prayer. Robert Kirkpatrick then gave a talk on “The Christian Endeavor and Church Activities,” and James Jones spoke on “Devotional Service.” Jones also gave an echo of the International Christian Endeavor Convention which had been held at Cleveland, Ohio. After a song, the meeting was closed with sentence prayers. The Christian Endeavor Training Class expects to start with deputations to surrounding areas soon.

The president of Davidson College will leave here early in October for Philadelphia, in order to attend the 200th anniversary of the founding of the old Log College near that city. Log College was founded by a band of Christian workers back in the year 1727, in October of that year, and it may be of interest to know that it was the first Presbyterian college in America. Chief among its founders was Rev. William Tennent, a Presbyterian minister, and pioneer of the Christian Educational movement in the United States. The college was intended to train men for the Presbyterian ministry, and has well fulfilled its mission in producing splendid Christian leaders throughout the land. Log College, itself, has long since passed out of existence, but this institution was really the beginning of Princeton University and Princeton Theological Seminary, which partly explains why these latter are under Presbyterian auspices. The celebration of the 200th anniversary...The anniversary will last three days, from October 2nd to October 5th. Dr. Martin will speak at a dinner on the subject, “The Common Aims of the Christian College.” 

The surrounding churches will be informed very soon. It also intends to take up a systematic study of Christian Endeavor problems at the weekly meetings.

OPEN a tidy red come-and-get-it tin of Prince Albert and give your olfactory nerve a treat. Never have you met an aroma that had so much get-it. Some fragrance, and that’s just a starter. Load up and light up... Cool as final exams. Sweet as passing. Mild as café au lait—mild, but with that rich, full-bodied flavor that bangs your smoke-gong right on the nose on every fire-up. You'll like this long-burning Prince Albert in the bowl of a pipe. And how!

PRINCE ALBERT the national joy smoke. One of the first things you notice about P. A. is that it never bites your tongue or parches your throat, no matter how open the smoke-throttle. It’s one tobacco that never wears out its welcome. You can stoke and smoke to your heart’s content, with P. A. for packing. Get some Prince Albert now and get going!

Davidson Men Take Marksmanship Prize

Marksmanship honors at Camp McClellan, Anniston, Ala., were divided between two Davidson shooters, Taylor and Julian Lake. These two men were sent as representatives of the Fourth Corps Area to the national meet at Camp Perry, and both made fine showings against the best shots of the army. Each year at the R.O.T.C. camp of the Fourth Corps Area, held at McClellan, competition is held for the honor of representing the camp at a national meet, this year held at Camp Perry. The two Davidson advance course students who won this honor were among ten of the best shots of the R.O.T.C. At the meet at Camp Perry, Taylor and Lake were matched with the best of the regular army, the R.O.T.C., and the marines. Regular range firing at various yardages and rapid fire were among the events. Lake placed in one of these events, winning a prize for his work. Taylor came within one point of winning his sharpshooter’s medal.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
Maxwell Chambers Hotel

“The best board on the Hill?” A trial is all we ask.
Student managers: D. A. CURRIE, J. W. MELTON

Tailored At Rochester

CONSTRUCTION WORK (Continued from page one)

Two club rooms. In this part will also be a reception and banquet hall with kitchen and pantries. The northern wing of the building will, like the southern part, contain classrooms and offices, there being 11 of the former and 15 of the latter, together with three departmental rooms and nine laboratories with necessary storage space. The entire length of the building when completed will be 312 feet, 30 feet more than that of the old structure. This imposing and beautiful structure will replace the Old Chambers which was entirely destroyed by fire in 1921, and the loss of which was a great blow to the college. The four columns of the Old Chambers will be left standing as memorials and as representatives of the old historic and traditional Davidson.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see VERNON S. BROYLES
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.