THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 28, 1927

Homecoming Day Will Long Be Remembered

Last year Homecoming Day was one of the gala events of the year. In the custom of the former years,
all classes were suspended on that day and the student body asked to assist in making the day as pleasant
as possible for all the returning graduates. The feature of Homecoming Day was the Carolina-Davidson annual football game, won by
Davidson 10-0, when the Wildcats uncased a surprise air attack. Following this, they went over the Carolina goal line for
a touchdown in the first ten minutes of play. Then in the third quarter, Dick Grey cinched the score with
a field goal from the thirty-yard line.

The program for the day started at 10:45 a.m. with a dress parade by the R.O.T.C. battalion; immediately following this,
the formal presentation of the Richardson Stadium and athletic field was made. The presentation program was opened by music by
the R.O.T.C. band. The invocation was led by Rev. J. G. Rowan, D.D., President of the Alumni Association. Following the
invocation was the introduction of Mr. J. Max Hendrix, '14, of Greensboro, who represented Messrs. H. S. and L. Richardson,
donors of the field and stadium, who were unable to attend the exercises. Mr. Hendrix read a letter from the
Richardson brothers in which they expressed their regret not to be present and their realization of Davidson’s need for a
permanent stadium. Dr. Martin then accepted the field and stadium on behalf of the college, faculty, and student body. The
prayer of dedication was delivered by Dr. C. M. Richards, of the faculty. The crowd then sang “O Davidson,” which
was followed by a speech on the “Leadership of Davidson College,” by Rev. A. A. McGeachy, D.D. After the benediction,
the meeting adjourned for lunch.

The game between Carolina and Davidson is already history. At eight fifteen, the Glee Club made its first appearance of
the year, the occasion being “Stunt Night” when each class and many of the organizations present a short act. The
place was Shearer Hall.

Chameleon to Increase Number of Publications During Present Session

Material Should be Submitted to Department Heads

FOUR ISSUES

First Issue Before Christmas Will be Published in the Middle of November

Readers of the Chameleon will be glad to know that there will be four editions of the magazine this year
instead of the three as has been the regular number of issues in the past. The first issue will appear
during the middle of November, and this will be the only one before the Christmas holidays. Old students will remember
that the time of publication of the Chameleon is not exactly in accordance with that of past years. However, the
staff this year feels that the spring is a more fitting time for the publication of the magazine than is
the fall, due in part to the fact that the students are more occupied with college activities in the spring.
It has also been felt that the present system will more evenly divide the college year than has the former
plan.

As usual, there will be the four principal constituents, namely, Poetry, Fiction, Essays, and Book Reviews. New plans and improvements
are now being worked on and will soon be made public. The Chameleon, as the college magazine has been called
for the past three years, will be, it is felt sure, as good this year as it has been in
the past. The present staff with J. G. Wisston as the editor-in-chief, and Val Guthery as the business manager, has
had a great deal of experience and has shown no mean talent in the past. Anyone wishing to submit anything
for publication in the magazine this year should turn his material in to Brown McQueen, who is editor of the
Short Story Department, Bayce Martin, the editor of the Poetry department, Caldwell Withers, the editor of the Book Review department.

Davidson and V.M.I. Meet in Tenth Tilt

Football elevens of Davidson College and V.M.I., which clash on Richardson Field Homecoming Day, have met upon a football field
nine times in the last 23 years. The Davidson Wildcats have emerged victorious in five of these battles, scoring 69
points for an average of over 7 points a game, while the Cadets have won four.games, with a total of
56 points, an average of over 6 points a game. The next Saturday will be the second time the Wildcats
have played V. M. I. The game at Lynchburg last year resulted in a 12 to 7 defeat for the
Cats. V. M. I. is a strong aggregation again this year and Davidson's undefeated team will meet stiff opposition Saturday.

Davidson has always had a great deal of talent along more or less literary lines in its student body, and
it is with no little anticipation that the first edition of the 1927-28 Chameleon is looked forward to.

If willingness to work, spunk, and grit are heeded, the game bids fair to be hard fought from start to
finish. Results of games since 1904 follow:

1904—V. M. I. 0; Davidson 0.
1905—V. M. I. 6; Davidson 8.
1906—V. M. I. 0; Davidson 10.
1907—V. M. I. 6; Davidson 10.
1908—V. M. I. 0; Davidson 8.
1911—V. M. I. 5; Davidson 0.
1917—V. M. I. 7; Davidson 23.
1919—V. M. I. 14; Davidson 7.
1920—V. M. I. 12; Davidson 7.

Total—V. M. I. 56; Davidson 60.
Games won—V. M. I. 4; Davidson 5.

GLASGOW LECTURES
(Continued from page one)

have is a firm belief in the Bible. The man who believes in the Bible is to be relied upon;
he has the right fundamentals in truth and a man who hides his religion; he must face the world square.
Furthering this discussion he gave some of the characteristics of this ideal man. He should, in the first place, be
courageous, the possessor of physical courage, and a man who can stand for what he thinks is right. Thousands fail
in business because they will not set themselves earnestly to the task before them. If this is true in the
business world it will apply in the spiritual world. It takes brains and character to stand square. We respect the
man with moral stamina. Stand with the few, if necessary, but be with the right; uphold a principle. The thing
most needed today, the characteristic most sadly lacking is that which will make a man an out and out Christian.
Do the fellows around you know that you are a Christian? Are you on the defensive or the offensive? The
Church needs men who will valiantly uphold their religion, going forth on the offensive. In closing, Mr. Glasgow made a
challenge: “What standard are you raising to the world? Be a man here at your school and you must take
a stand.”

Tate-Brown Co.
SUITS AND TOPCOATS

Not in several years has $40 bought so much in fabric and tailoring. As for the style—the models are designed
especially to please the university man. $40 buys a splendid suit or overcoat. Others $35 up.

Ain’t It a Grand and Glorious Feelin’?
By BRIGGS

WHEN YOU'VE BOUGHT A NEW CAR THAT THE SALESMAN SAYS WILL DO 70 MILES AN HOUR AND YOU TAKE THE
RIG OUT TO SEE JUST WHAT SHE WILL DO. "I'M GOIN’ TO SEE HOW MUCH SPEED IT REALLY HAS AND
WHAT SHE WILL DO."

AND YOU PULL UP TO THE SIDE OF THE ROAD TREMBLING WITH FEAR AND EXCITEMENT, AND YOU GET OUT OF
THIS FOR TWENTY-FIVE BUCKS. "I'M LUCKY."

AND YOU SEE A COP TAILING YOU. "OH-H-H-1 BOY! AIN’T IT A GRAND AND GLORIOUS FEELIN’?"

AND WHEN YOU'RE SAILING ALONG AT 55 YOU SEE A COP TAILING YOU. "GR-R-R-RAND."

Boy! AIN’T IT GLOR-R-R-RIOUS? "I'VE COUGHED MY HEAD OFF EATING EXHAUST SMOKE, AND I'VE GOTTA BIG YEN FOR AN OLD
GOLD."

Smoother and Better Cigarette—Not a cough in a carload.

© 1927, P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760
