12 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927

OLD CHAMBERS BELL MELTED
(Continued from page 10)

Davidson men killed in the war, was presented at an impressive ceremony on the morning of September 14, 1922. At
this ceremony, Dr. J. W. MacConnell introduced the donor, Mr. McDowell, one-time mayor of Charlotte. The Hon. Mr. McDowell responded
to the applause which greeted his introduction and expressed his gladness in making the gift. Dr. Martin accepted the donation
on behalf of the administration of the college and Sam Davis on behalf of the student body. The honor of
the first ringing of the bell was reserved for the donor. At the last note of the bell, cheer after
cheer rang from the students for Mr. McDowell.

This ceremony will never be forgotten by those classes to whom the honor of attending was bestowed by fate. The
new bell now hangs in a temporary tower behind the armory. When the second wing of New Chambers is completed,
the bell will be moved to its permanent place in the belfry of the building.

VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
WEEK OF APRIL 18-23

Monday: Meet the Prince, a Metropolitan production.
Tuesday: Tin Hats, with Conrad Nagle.
Wednesday: Hotel Imperial, with Pola Negri.
Thursday and Friday: The Midnight Sun, with Laura LaPlante.
Saturday: Silent Rider starring Hoot Gibson.

FAMOUS PICTURE CORPORATION SEEKS NEW SCREEN STARS AMONG UNIVERSITY GRADUATES

As may readily be guessed, young Hudgins was the leader of this infamous crew, reeking vengeance upon those who would
two-time any one of their body (in an underhanded manner). Who has not heard of the irreproachable (?) demeanor of
these uncontrollables?

John McCormack is general manager of the corporation, which happens to be one of the foremost producing and distributing organizations.
He is the one to whom credit must be given for this starting innovation. He is from the University of
Washington himself and has always been in close touch with college men.

Advance men and a crew of assistants will arrive at the schools to be visited about a month before the
actual shooting date. Any man enrolled may submit himself, and at least ten men will be selected from each school.
These men will be given an opportunity to show their ability, and directly following each series of tests, the negatives
will be sent directly to the studio in California. From those sent in, ten men will be selected to make
the trip to Hollywood at the expense of the First National Corporation. The company guarantees these men eight weeks of
work at fifty dollars a week, with an opportunity for advancement if they prove themselves capable. The purpose of this
contest is to supply the increasing demand for new talent for screen plays. The only requirements for those to be
chosen are that they have personality, distinction, wholesomeness, character born of good breeding, and intelligence.

Two advance parties will be sent out, one on an eastern circuit and the other on a western circuit. The
various clubs, eating houses, fraternities, and dormitories at each college will be visited, and as many men as possible will
be interviewed. The parties will be at each school one day. About thirty-three colleges will be visited, including Harvard, Yale,
Syracuse, Princeton, Georgia Tech, University of Alabama, Tulane, Vanderbilt, Notre Dame, University of Illinois, University of California, and Stanford University.

“DROOPY” WINS
(Continued from page 9)

Congratulations came at once from the editor of College Humor, the originator of the campaign. Camera men were dispatched to
Davidson at once and will arrive by airplane on May the first when a giant celebration and carnival will be
held, wherein the victorious “Droopy” will hold sway for a day, as Rex at Mardi Gras. The entire celebration will
be filmed and flashed on every cinema sheet of the nation. Following his graduation on June the first, “Droopy” will
leave at once for Hollywood, jeweled city, where amongst other notable talent he will take up his life work for
a year. After that, he hopes to have made enough to endow “The Third Floor” for life and retire to
nothing more arduous than golf and indoor sports.

The Y Handbook for the coming year will be edited by Carter Rowe, and anybody who has any material to
go in this publication is asked to see him. Those, too, who wish to work in that way are also
asked to see Carter sometime soon.

Davidson Theatre
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Monday and Tuesday, April 18th and 19th: Gilda Gray in “Cabaret”
Wednesday and Thursday, April 20th and 21st: Jack Mulhall in “See You in Jail”
Friday, April 22nd: Esther Ralston in “Fashions for Women”
Saturday, April 23rd: Fred Thompson in “The Two-Gun Man”
Monday and Tuesday, April 25th and 26th: Richard Dix in “Two-Gun Riley”
Wednesday and Thursday, April 27th and 28th: Milton Sills in “The Sea Tiger”
Friday, April 29th: Mildred Davis in “Too Many Crooks”
Saturday, April 30th: “Pals in Paradise”

“DROOP” SON OF HUDGINS
(Continued from page 9)

As a youngster, Little Droopy used to sit in his cradle and gaze for hours through the awe-inspiring and ever-fascinating
stereoscope—looking at the “pretty pictures,” as he would call them. After his 16-months-old birthday, when he won the Tri-County Better
Babies Contest in the 15-pound class, nothing was to be considered but that “our little Droopy must be an artist,
at least, and make his own pictures, doing...The sketching as he surveys himself in the mirror and recording each newly-formed
dimple and beauty spot with exquisite exactitude.” But things did not continue in the same light when Droop got into
West End High School of Bluefield, for there he became known as the leader of his boy-friends and the unchallengeable
hero of the “ladies.” As most all good men do, our prodigy soon was carried off by the wiles of
some sly virgin, and during the remainder of his days at old West End, he was lost to his former
admirers, as his thoughts, actions, and whole manner of living were molded by this fair damsel. Droop was no longer
the Big Man at West End, but little did he care for that. He had “her,” and that was all.
When the West Virginia flash hit Davidson, he began to leave those old sentimental qualities that used to control his
being back in the olden days, and new life was gleaming through the bright blue—sky-blue—eyes of this “little man who
bids fair to wake up old Davidson,” as the Bluefield semi-weekly Tabloid Gazette said in an editorial column. No one
other than a true prophet could have written those lines, for hardly had a week elapsed after his arrival when
there was some real waking-up. Droop’s room was just off the third landing of East Dor- mitory, bearing tidings, as
we think, from that one who had been THE one back in old West End High. Droop settled down then,
but to some, it might not have been noticeable, and he was the stern, austere, He-Man, unadorned and unabridged as
he had been once before. His thoughts turned toward the bright lights of the silver screen, and in dress and
gait and all activity, he strove to emulate those heroes of the “pitty pictures” until success was his at last
through the supreme efforts of his many friends and untiring supporters. Just when he leaves for Hollywood has not yet
been revealed, but whenever it may be, it will be too soon, for Bluefield will have lost a noble son
and Davidson’s Third Floor East, an insuperable leader.

INTERESTING RELIC

(Continued from page 10)

thorities of the college decided to abolish the post-graduate work in medicine. All of its bricks have been removed so
that no trace of it remains, but the vat seems not to have been touched. Years from now, all memory
of the Medical College will probably have been erased from the minds of even the oldest inhabitants, and this small
mound of brick will be all that is left of the time when surgery rivaled theology here. It has been
several years since the medical school was done away with, but while it was here, it was ranked as one
of the best in the country. As has been said, many distinguished doctors graduated from this school, and the medical
professors were the best. In one sense, it seems a shame that the medical school had to be given up,
but the authorities thought the best plan was to do away with it in order that Davidson College could specialize
in one line, namely, that of theology, and to lead in that department for years to come.

DAVIDSON DEBATERS WIN

(Continued from page 1)

remainder of the lengthy tour. On April 5th, the Davidson team lost to Moravian College of Bethlehem, Pa. The judges’
decision was two-to-one for the negative as upheld by the Moravian debaters. A large audience attended this debate, which was
one of the first intercollegiate contests in which the Moravian orators had participated during the year. Following the debate, a
vote was taken from the audience as to the merits of the debt question, and it was significant that the
audience was unanimously opposed to cancellation. From Bethlehem, Branch and Wharton journeyed to New Brunswick, N. J., where they won
from Rutgers College again by a two-to-one vote of the judges. The debate with Rutgers was the most lively contest
of the tour and was heard by an audience of more than five hundred town people and students. Charles Mason
and Harry P. Folger, who composed the Rutgers team, were debaters of four years’ experience and demonstrated a familiarity with
their subject matter which was unusual.

Fresh Range Firing is Near Completion

The season for the Freshman Range Firing is just about to be completed. The system in which this work has
been carried on during this year is very different and much better than any way in which it has been
done before. Every Freshman is required to make at least two trips to the range, and on one of these
occasions, he must make a score of 43. On the first trip, each man fires five rounds from a prone
position with the aid of the sandbag. Then, on the same afternoon, he fires ten rounds from the prone position
without the aid of the rest. On the next trial, he fires 20 rounds without any rest, and if he
obtains his required score on any one of these trials, he has completed his work. A score of 43 gives
the student a passing grade of 70. For each point over this required score, he gets credit for 5 points
on his grade. The best score of the three is taken as his final grade. A good deal of interest
has been taken in the work this year as the competition is keen for the medal that is promised to
the one with the highest score. Also, a rifle team will be composed, and some of the Freshmen with the
highest scores will undoubtedly be members of the team. This is the first year during which Freshmen have been allowed
to be included as members of the team. Possible candidates for this activity are E. B. Lennon, H. C. Harrel,
and Murray Christian. Another incentive which makes a man strive to do his best is that making this score is
a prerequisite for the standing of examinations. As a whole, much better scores have been made this year than those
made by last year’s Freshman class.

More Advice to Men

Beware of the girl with the pug nose. You never know what may turn up.

Get a Ringside Seat

MONDAY

PRESENTED BY ADOLPH ZUKOR JESSE L. LASKY

RICHARD DIX in "Night Out Reilly."

A Paramount Picture

Also Dorothy Kamdin and her Jazz Band. A big headline act Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.

CAROLINA

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
