THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 5, 1927

EX-CONGRESSMAN C. R. HOEY ADDRESSES

Mr. C. R. Hoey, distinguished lawyer and ex-congressman, delivered the evening vesper address at Shearer Hall last Sunday night. Mr.
Hoey is a noted lawyer and one of the best speakers in the South. He was born in this neighborhood
and because of his fine qualities and wonderful personality, he was called to serve as congressman. In this office, he
served with great efficiency, always showing himself eager to better the conditions and improve the laws of our country.

“There’s an inspiration,” declared Mr. Hoey, “in talking to you men. I am a man just like you. We as
men of today, with all its opportunities and evil temptations confronting us, need defense. The Bible has inspiration, and all
its readers and the people who study it will admit that it needs no defense. Just the mere reading of
it gives us inspiration. We as young men of today need assistance to overcome the many evils that beset our
nation as a whole. As we go on through college, we are impressed day by day, more and more, that
we cannot afford to fail. We must not, for the sake of those that are sacrificing for us. And then
there is that sweet and wonderful consolation—take Jesus into your life and you will never fail. No matter how strong
a man is or how many temptations he can overcome, he is powerless without Jesus at his side. We all
study about the theology of the past, of Adam and other characters, but all this matters not if we know
that Jesus dwells with man. I am glad that in this twentieth century we have a religion which reveals to
us the goodness of God and ideals by which we should live. Aren’t you glad that you absolutely know that
there is a living God that is watching over us and loving us? We all look back over the past
events and see how Christianity has developed and modeled us as Christians. It is wonderful! Look at India, China, and
Turkey—over 90 percent can neither read nor write. It is Christianity which has caused us to progress as a nation,
and why can’t we, as those who make up the nations, see that that is all we need to progress?
When Jesus came into this world to set down new and wonderful principles, the people’s vision was broader. He came
to challenge the selfishness of this world. We are only moved by the calamities which occur in this world now.
The entire world is finding new inspiration. We need to progress in this day with its wonderful opportunities. We are
following Jesus too far away; we need to get closer to the hem of his beautiful garments to follow him.
We see the development and transformation of Peter. If this wonderful religion can transform Peter, we know that it can
transform us. It can give us the great power of overcoming temptations. The religion which is only shown on dress
parade occasions is not what we want, but the kind we want is the religion of Jesus. If we could
think of Jesus as being just a nice gentleman, then it must have been wonderful to talk to him and
associate with one of such great ability. We should always be trying to be like him.”

There were many other important and inspiring thoughts that could be found in Mr. Hoey’s speech. All who attended the
service were very much impressed and helped by Mr. Hoey’s splendid talk.

MARTIN ELECTED (Continued from page 1)

In connection with the last-named speech, the federation went on record as being in favor of R. O. T. C.
in American colleges and universities. Though the question of affiliation with the F. C. S. A. was brought up, the
decision was postponed until next year.

The meet with Wake Forest last Saturday was interesting in more ways than one. In the first place, the Wildcats
came out on the long end of an 88 to 38 score, taking 11 of the 14 first places. Currie’s
lowering the college record by .3 of a point was, of course, the outstanding thing in the meet. A man
who can run the 100 in ten flat is considered mighty good, but when a man pulls it down to
9 and 7-10ths seconds, we're ready to take notice.

VESPER SERVICE

Young People Plan Annual Conference

The ninth annual Presbyterian Young People’s League Conference will open at Davidson on June 10th and continue through June 17th.
The general curriculum will include Bible Study, Missions, Stewardship, a Study of the Church, Sunday School, and Methods for Young
People’s Societies.

For the past eight years, the League Conference has met at Davidson; the first three sessions were open to all
the states in the Southern Presbyterian Church, but when North Carolina began to have such a large delegation, it was
decided to make the Davidson Conference a North Carolina assembly of young people. Under the new policy, the conference has
thrived for five years and each year the enrollment has grown larger so that it is expected that the 1927
conference will reach the 350 mark.

A Board of Directors composed of Synod’s Committee and Synodical Auxiliary Committee on Young People’s Work has entire charge of
the Young People’s Presbyterian Conference. The board has secured some of the ablest speakers in the Presbyterian Church to teach,
speak, and counsel the young people for this year. The program which the board has planned provides for a complete
threefold instruction, being equally balanced with spiritual, mental, and physical features. Each college in North Carolina which is under the
direction of the Presbyterian Church will be allowed five delegates at the conference, but these delegates must represent some organization
or some church which shall provide for their conference fee; otherwise, the students will have to obtain work which will
enable them to pay off this fee.

Forensic Officers Elected for Year

Last week, the Forensic Council elected Henry Powell, president; Chalmers Davidson, vice-president; and Jeff Garrison, secretary-treasurer, as its officers for
the coming year. The old council was composed of L. D. Wharton, C. W. Williams, Henry Powell, Chalmers Davidson, C.
G. Davis, and Jeff Garrison.

Henry Powell, of the rising Senior class, has been prominent in debating and oratorical work ever since his first year
at Davidson. He was on the Freshman debating team and has been on the Varsity debating team for the past
two years. He served as secretary-treasurer of the Forensic Council this year and is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon
honorary fraternity. He is also a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

Chalmers Davidson and Jeff Garrison are also prominent men on the campus and are very well known.

The function of the Forensic Council is to arrange the schedule of the debaters for both the Varsity and Freshman
Debating teams. This year, a more extensive schedule was arranged than ever before. It included the northern trip, the V.
P. I. trip, and several trips of smaller importance and less distance. The council is to be complimented on having
done such good work this year in arranging a larger schedule and in planning the work.of the debating teams so
well. The secretaries of the council will be announced later.

She—"Am I your father?”
He—"No, why?”
She—"Then quit pawin’ me.”

Prof. (on the street)—"Do you know who I am?”
Stude—"No, sir, but if you can remember your address, I’ll take you home.”

A Short Love Story
Couple - Candy - Cupid - Car - Congratulations - Contentment - Curtain.
She lay in his arms and snuggled her head against his neck—A rush of emotion surged over her and she
closed her eyes in delight, “Poor kitty, did I step on your tail?”

Henry Powell, president, Chalmers Daw Forensic council last year and is a member of the council.

CATS OUTFIT GOBBLES (Continued from page 1)
*Hit for Davis in ninth.

Score by innings: R H E
V. P. I. 024 200 200—10 8 5
Davidson 100 600 010— 2 11 12

Summary—Sacrifice hits: Davis, Harrison, McGeachy; stolen bases: Alexander, Tomko, Mattox, Willey, Woodham, Dulin, Harrison; left on base: V. P. I.
2, Davidson 14; base on balls: off Handy 4, off Sexton 3; struck out: by Handy 1, by Wells 4,
by Meadows 2; hits: off Handy 6 with 7 runs in 4 innings, off Sexton 5 with 1 run in
5 innings, off Wells 8 with 10 runs in 7 innings, off Meadows 0 with 0 runs in 2 innings;
winning pitcher: Handy; losing pitcher: Wells; umpire: Simmons, N. C.

ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (Continued from page 1)
J. H. Swartz, W. C. Coker, W. T. Alexander, H. H. Braxton, A. B. Couch, Paul M. Paterson, Velma Matthews,
S. G. Collins, Otto Stuhlman, Jr., J. W. Lasley, A. W. Hobbs, and Collier Cobb.

Duke: A. S. Pearce, F. J. Holl, F. G. Hall, Walter M. Nielson, and C. W. Edwards.
Carson and Newman: J. D. Ives.
N. C. C. W.: Archie D. Shaftsbury.
Greensboro College: Ella M. Martin.
Davidson: John H. Davis, Jr.
Guilford: G. Herbert Cole.

R. W. Leiby, of the Agricultural Experiment Station; Frederick A. Wolf, of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and J.
O. Halverson, of the State Department of Agriculture, will also present papers to the Academy.

The men who will present papers to the Chemical Society are: L. F. Williams, J. O. Brooks, O. B. Hager,
Jr., P. M. Ginnings, L. A. Bass, F. C. Vilbrandt, A. R. Green, Johannes S. Buck, C. L. M. Thomas,
Paul Gross, Henry K. Miller, J. T. Dobbins, J. B. Bullitt, Jr., H. A. Ljung, H. B. Arbuckle, and O.
J. Theis, Jr.

The paper read by Dr. Arbuckle and Professor Theis will be of especial interest to the students because it concerns
a rather amazing discovery which Dr. Arbuckle and Professor Theis made recently. The classes in Chemistry were acquainted with the
work at the beginning and kept in touch with it daily through Dr. Arbuckle’s explanations and were very much interested
in the outcome, and will probably be very much interested in the opinion of the Academy about the matter. The
title of the paper will be “A Zinc Spot in Cole’s Test for Arsenic.”

The officers of the Academy are: President, Bert Cunningham; vice-president, F. E. Rice; secretary and treasurer, H. R. Totten.

The executive of the Chemical Society are: L. B. Rhodes.

Energy
A man entered a railroad yard and applied for a job.
“What can you do?” asked the foreman.
“Anything,” was the reply.
“Here,” said the foreman, “take this oil can and oil the points and crossings up the line.”
“All right, boss,” replied the workman, as he started up the line.

Three days later the foreman received a telegram which read: “Arrived Detroit. Forward more oil.”

AB R H PO A E
Alexander, 2b 5 2 1 2 0 0
Deal, ss 5 1 2 0 2 0
Tomko, 3b 5 1 1 2 1 0
Mattox, lf 4 2 1 2 0 0
Gallup, cf 4 2 1 2 0 0
Willey, 1b 4 1 1 11 0 0
Arrington, rf 4 1 1 3 0 0
Smith, c 4 0 0 2 0 0
Handy, p 2 1 1 0 3 1
Sexton, p 2 0 0 0 1 1
Totals 39 10 8 27 10 5

Davidson AB R H PO A E
Woodham, 1b 4 2 2 10 0 2
Davis, rf 3 0 0 1 0 1
Ratchford, lf 5 0 1 3 0 1
Johnson, cf 5 0 1 2 0 0
Dulin, 3b 5 0 2 1 1 0
Lakes, 2b 4 0 1 2 2 0
Littlejohn, ss 4 0 1 1 2 1
McGeachy, c 4 1 2 7 0 0
Wells, p 4 1 0 0 2 2
Meadows, p 1 0 0 0 1 0
Crawford 1 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 38 4 11 27 10 12

SOPHS MAKE PLANS (Continued from page 1)
A schedule of happenings will be published in due time on the bulletin boards of the different dormitories so that
the individual Freshmen and the class as a whole will thoroughly understand its duty. This step taken will enable the
program of the day to be run off with the least possible delay and the fullest co-operation of the Fresh
with those sponsoring the affair. All Freshmen will be compelled to remain on the Hill the 14th and devote their
best in every way in making this present Soph Day one long to be remembered. The only plans announced are
the conventional burning of the caps and the resultant climax, after which the Fresh can again raise their heads to
the skies and be proud to bear the name of Freshmen. An added attraction to the day will be house
parties, something the actors of the day will certainly look forward to, as it is well known the effect to
be gained from having one’s girl see her Freshman Johnny parade before her eyes in all his pristine glory, will
lend sympathy and inspiration to her friend—one indeed in need.

SENIORS SELECTED (Continued from page 5)
The Club was followed on Tuesday night by more secret and more awe-inspiring rites, held, in accordance with custom, in
the gymnasium, when the men were formally installed as members.

Personal
Concord Presbyterial met Wednesday and Thursday of last week for their annual meeting. Some of the principal speakers were: Mrs.
S. H. Askew, Rev. R. S. Arrowood, Dr. McLaughlin, and Dr. Darby Fulton.

Miss Sarah Withers, winner in a statewide French contest conducted throughout the state in schools, went to Chapel Hill to
receive her award, a beautiful loving cup.

Mr. K. J. Foreman conducted a mission class for teachers at Durham during the past week. The classes were held
in the First Presbyterian Church of that city.

Mr. J. P. Williams and Dr. Darby Fulton attended the lecture of Judge Lindsay in Charlotte last week.

The townspeople responded quickly and liberally to the call of the Red Cross in their fund for Mississippi relief work.

Mrs. A. B. Robson left Wednesday night for Haddonfield, N. J., accompanied by her son, Mr. Charles Robson, an instructor
at the University of North Carolina, to attend the wedding of her other son, Dr. George Robson.

Striped Shirts that will make the tiger jealous and the zebra wild—yet—these shirts are the height of style. Socks and
ties complete the story.

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WHITE DRUG CO.
Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
