‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 13, 1927

WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy
See Us.

26-28 S. College St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

THERE’S a reason why more college men
come to

Johnson’s Barber Shop

THREE DOORS BEYOND THE BANK

The Commercial National Bank

Charlotte, N.C. Founded 1847

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your
banking needs.

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.

Trust Department under supervision of United States
Government. Make us your Executor.

Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R.A. DUNN, President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

...but watch how other smokers
are changing to Chesterfield!

Rev. J. McGregor, ‘14, of Lexington, N.C., is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of that city, which recently celebrated
its centennial year of service. Participating in the centennial celebration were Dr. W. T. Thompson, ’05, of Union Theological Seminary;
and Dr. L. T. Wilds, ‘06, both former pastors of the Church.

WHAT’S NEW IN
SWEATERS
EVENING CLOTHES
SHOES CAPS
TIES HOSIERY
DRESS ACCESSORIES

Exhibition Showing at
Henderson’s Jewelry Store
October 14th and 15th, Friday and Saturday
James W. Branch, Rep.

SUITS AND TOPCOATS
FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS AND MORE
TAILORED TO MEASURE

November First Chosen
as Social Frat Bid Day
by Pan-Hellenic Council

Bids Will Be Delivered by Pan-Hellenic Representatives
SLIGHT INNOVATIONS

Date Set in Middle of Week for First Time in History

Tuesday, November 1st, has been set aside by the Pan-Hellenic Council as general fraternity bid day. On this day the
bids will be given to the Freshmen by the fraternities desiring them. This will be the first time in the
history of fraternities at Davidson that the bids will be given in the middle of the week. This was done
in order that all fraternity men would be on the Hill. It was found in the past that many men
were away on football trips.

Monday night, October 31st, all Freshmen are to be out of the fraternity houses by 10:30 p.m. The day of
silence starts at this time. From then until 7:30 on the following night, no fraternity man is to speak to
any Freshman that has been bid by his fraternity, except to speak in passing him on the campus.

In contrast to last year, the bids will be carried around by the representatives of the Pan-Hellenic Council. The bids
last year were mailed out. After 7:30 Tuesday, all Freshmen that have no conflicting bids will go to the house
of their choice. Those that have more than one bid will remain in their rooms, and each of the fraternities
bidding them will be allowed half an hour in conference with the Freshman. Not more than two fraternity men will
be allowed to talk to one Freshman. After the conferences, the Freshmen will be given a half hour in which
to make up their minds, after which they will go to the house of their choice.

It will be noticed that the only differences from last year lie in the fact that the bids will be
issued in the middle of the week, and that the bids will be carried around instead of being mailed.

Although no definite penalty has been set for an infraction of these rules, any person disregarding them will be treated
severely by the Pan-Hellenic Council.

Dr. Hood Speaks to Ministerial Group

Sunday, October 9th, the Ministerial Band met at 2:30 in Shearer Hall. Dr. Hood was the speaker. He gave some
practical hints to prospective ministers as laymen and psychologists. The program was a simple one, consisting of a few hymns,
and prayers by Estridge and Brown.

Dr. Hood took his first text from 1 Corinthians 16:13, “Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, quit you like
men, be strong,” and II Timothy 2:5, “And if also a man contend in the games, he is not crowned,
except he have contended lawfully.” He said that to be a successful preacher one must obey the laws connected with
preaching. Psychological laws, which are God's laws in the field of psychology, are vitally connected with preaching. The two epistles
of Paul to Timothy form one of the best manuals a young man preparing for the ministry could read. They
contain much practical advice. One piece of advice that Paul gives to young Timothy is to give attendance to reading.
Proper reading is a very important part of the service.

Dr. Hood gave three mechanics of service to help in the mastery of the pulpit: selection of hymns, reading, dress
of pulpit. Our hymns are one of the church’s richest heritages from an ancient and honorable past. There is a
tendency to neglect them for the modern songs. This ought not to be done, as the hymns have a more
spiritual music. Some preachers pay as much attention to the choice of their hymns as to the preparation of their
sermons. Reading properly is really the most important mechanic. The reading of hymns should be metrical as to read otherwise
destroys the beauty of the original. Besides, it is important that the congregation remember the hymns, and they are better
remembered if read metrically.

Reading of scripture should be intelligent and careful, making the thought grip the minds of the hearers. The dress while
in the pulpit should be such as to attract attention neither by its flashiness nor by its sombreness.
