THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 8, 1927

Davidson Glee Club Will Take Part in State Contest at Durham Next Week

On December 12th, the Davidson College Glee Club will journey to Durham to participate in the State Glee Club contest.
The contest is to be held in the Duke auditorium. The clubs to be represented are: Davidson, Guilford, Duke, State,
and possibly the University of North Carolina. John Foster, president of the club, stated that 30 of the members of
the Glee Club will make the trip to Durham. Foster will direct the club during the contest.

Each club must sing three songs in the contest. “The Broken Melody,” the contest song, is by Sibelius. “College Ties,”
and “Mother’s Boy,” by Towner, are the other songs to be sung by the Davidson club. On account of conflicting
dates, it is in doubt as to whether the University of North Carolina will sing in the contest. “The Broken
Melody” is to be used by all glee clubs in the United States who are to compete in state, district,
and national events.

The winner of the North Carolina State Glee Club contest will go to Greenville, S. C., for the Southern contest
on February 10th. All expenses of visiting clubs will be paid in both the state and southern contests by chambers
of commerce of both Durham and Greenville. The winner of the Southern contest will be presented with a loving cup.
The director of the winning club also receives a loving cup as a permanent gift. The winner of the Southern
contest will receive a cash bonus of $1,000 to be applied on expenses for attending the National contest in New
York.

The judges in the Durham contest will be: Lee C. MacCauley, director of music in the public schools of Asheville,
N. C.; Prof. Gillman Alexander, Greensboro College for Women, Greensboro, N. C.; Mr. E. L. Stookey, director of music at
High Point, N. C.

The capable direction of “Mother’s Boy,” by John Foster, was a significant feature at the concert given by the club
in Concord last Friday night, and it is an indication of the successful guidance that he will give the club
at the state contest in Durham. The chamber of commerce of Durham is inviting all of the visiting club members
to a banquet to be held preceding the contest.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE - NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE - THE BEST OF COOKING

Alumni After Fame and Fortune in 40 States Davidson Men Are Also Leaders in Seventeen Foreign Countries According to Survey

Davidson College, with its 3,500 alumni, is represented by business and professional leaders in forty states and seventeen foreign countries,
a recent survey of alumni records revealed. Of this number, more than 1,500 reside in the state of North Carolina.
South Carolina is second among the states with 575 Davidson alumni. There are 226 in Georgia, 149 in Florida, 185
in Virginia, 100 in Tennessee, and 73 in Alabama. New York leads the eastern states with 58, followed closely by
Pennsylvania with 27, Massachusetts with 15, and New Jersey with 12. Illinois leads the mid-west with 9, trailed by Minnesota
and Ohio with 5 each. Texas tops the western states with 49, and Arkansas is second with 28, Oklahoma with
14, and California with 10. Only eight states including Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Idaho, Oregon, Iowa, Nevada, and Arizona are
without Davidson alumni.

Davidson is represented across the seas in seventeen foreign nations as follows: China, Japan, Korea, Africa, Brazil, Hawaii, England, Greece,
Canada, Cuba, Mexico, Scotland, Turkey, Romania, Central America, Switzerland, and Persia. The complete list of states with the number of
Davidson alumni in each follows: North Carolina 1,583, South Carolina 575, Georgia 226, Florida 149, Virginia 185, Tennessee 100, Alabama
73, Texas 49, New York 58, Mississippi 45, Kentucky 43, West Virginia 37, Maryland 30, Arkansas 28, Pennsylvania 27, Louisiana
18, District of Columbia 16, Massachusetts 15, Missouri 14, Oklahoma 14, New Jersey 12, California 10, Illinois 9, Indiana 5,
Minnesota 5, Colorado 5, Connecticut 5, Ohio 5, Kansas 4, Arizona 3, New Mexico 3, Washington 3, Nebraska 2, Rhode
Island 2, Delaware 1, Michigan 1, Montana 1, South Dakota 1, Wisconsin 1, Utah 1.

In the foreign countries, the count is as follows: China 7, Japan 7, Korea 11, Africa 6, Brazil 5, Hawaii
4, England 3, Scotland 3, Turkey 3, Romania 3, Central America 3, Switzerland 3, Persia 3, Greece 2, Canada 2,
Cuba 2, Mexico 2.

Concerts will be given at Winston-Salem, Greensboro, and Salisbury, while on this trip.

Football Team to Have Banquet Saturday Night Second Feed of Season to be at Salisbury

The members of the football team are anxiously awaiting the second of their numerous post-season banquets, that is to be
held in Salisbury, Saturday night. The banquet will be served in the Dutch Lunch Dining Hall. Coach Monk Younger and
Tex Tilson will escort the team over to Salisbury, some time during the afternoon, in a private bus. Since the
College Glee Club is giving a concert in Salisbury Saturday night, the Glee Club quartet will render several selections at
the banquet. The Rowan County Athletic Association has been fortunate enough to have Mr. S. C. Williams, of Winston-Salem, to
give the address of the evening.

MINISTERIAL BAND

Jim Appleby was the speaker at the weekly meeting of the Ministerial Band, held in Shearer Hall Sunday afternoon at
2:30 o'clock. The talk centered about a demonstration and an explanation of how to conduct a Daily Vacation Bible School.
As a text, Jim took the eighth verse of the first chapter of Acts: “And ye shall be my witnesses
both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth.” He said that
the fact must not be forgotten that it is necessary to serve Christ in one’s home town as well as
in foreign countries, and then he showed how in the Vacation Bible School college students may have an opportunity to
serve Him. He gave as advantages of the school the facts that in the first place it keeps occupied during
the summer months young children who would otherwise be idle and that in the second place it can in six
weeks, with an hour a day, teach the children much more than could be taught in the Sunday School during
an entire year. Jim’s knowledge of the subject comes as a result of practical experience last summer in Florence, Ala.,
as an instructor and leader in such a school.

We simply must tell another Scotch story. It seems that there was a...Scotchman walking down Main Street the other day
looking for a cheap post office—Boston Beaiipot. Greece 2, Canada 2, Cuba 2, Mexico 2, Scotland 2, Turkey 2, Roumania
1, Central America 1, Switzerland 1, and Persia 1. THE ORTHO CREDENZA, $300.00 VICTROLA ANDREW’S 213 N. Tryon St. New
PHONIC The Finest Musical Instrument in the World Prices $95 to $1,000 All Models in Stock---Easy Terms NEW RECORDS EVERY
FRIDAY “MUSIC STORE Charlotte, N. C New | Victor Radi TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE! We have at all times a
complete stock of Brunswick Panatropes New Records Every Friday A Complete Line of RCA Parker-Gardner Co. Orthophonic Victrolas and Also
and Brunswick Records from $69.50 to $895. VOLUNTEER BAND The Volunteer Band has started making “Y” deputations. It has decided
on several different programs with three speeches in each. In this way, all the men in the band will have
places on the deputations. Sunday, December 4th, Glenn Fry and Ben Drake went on a deputation to Flora Macdonald College,
Red Springs, N. C. Drake led the devotional service and Fry spoke on the motives of missions. The object of
this trip was to arouse interest in the coming convention at Detroit to discuss missions and to promote the general
interests of the Volunteer movement. Though they spoke before the Volunteer Band there, the meeting was well-attended by other students
and faculty members. Sunday, November 27th, the Band was represented on a deputation to Blacksburg by Glenn Fry, John Bradley,
and John Preston, speaking on Japan, China, and Korea. They held three meetings in the vicinity. The Tenth Quadrennial Convention
of the Student Volunteer Movement is to be held in Detroit, Michigan, during the Christmas holidays, between December 28th and
January 2nd. Davidson will be represented by Glenn Fry and Allan Frew. Other colleges in North Carolina will be represented
also. Delegates from all over the world will attend to discuss the present-day missionary problem, especially to solve and discuss
the perplexity among students of this generation who claim that missions are proselytism among peoples of different heritage, culture, and
religion. There will be some noted speakers to present the facts. Only a limited number of delegates can go from
each section. The Southern Railway Company is running a special train over the Baltimore and Ohio and Pere Marquette Railways
for delegates from the South. C. E. T. C. The Christian Endeavor Training class held its regular meeting on last
Sunday, but due to the rather small number present, the meeting was conducted by Long in the nature of a
short devotional service. Plans for various deputations are being arranged for the class, and a group of seven boys are
to be sent to Huntersville next Sunday evening to conduct a service there. This deputation will be under the leadership
of Everett Moye. The Huntersville deputation will be the last made before the Christmas holidays commence, but several others are
being planned to be held afterwards. These latter deputations will include several nearby towns, among which are Charlotte and Statesville.
The class has already held several deputations, including one to the First Church at Mooresville and another to Harrisburg. Word
has just reached Davidson of the marriage of L. Phillip Cox, ’25, to Miss Louise Robbs, on Thanksgiving morning, November
24th. The marriage was performed at Philadelphia, Mrs. Cox having journeyed from her home at Mobile, Ala., to that city
for the ceremony. Phil Cox is Latest Shows Will Soon Come to Gym Three good shows have been booked for
the remaining show nights before the holidays. This weekend “Fast and Furious” will be played, featuring Reginald Denny. The picture
is the screen story of an original story written by the well-known star. As the story from which the story
was made is the child of his own brain, it can be said that he enters into the spirit of
the story in an artistic manner. Laure La Plante, John Harron, and Otis Harlan will appear as leading lights in
“Silk Stockings” which is to be shown December 10. This picture is a comedy whose theme is centered around the
celebration of Sam and Molly Thornhill’s wedding anniversary. Sam is forced by his boss to take some buyers to dinner.
One of the women puts a pair of silk stockings in Sam’s pocket. When Sam gets home, the wife discovers
the stocking and sues for divorce. She tells a frightful story in court and is shocked when the divorce is
granted. The rest of the picture deals with how they are able to avoid the fulfillment of the judge’s decision.
Two of the four pictures shown in November centered around robberies, “Cat and Canary” and the “Chinese Parrot.” On December
17, “Cheating Cheaters,” another picture of this nature, will be shown. This picture has an all-star cast featuring Betty Tompson
and Kenneth Harlan. It is the story of one notorious band of society crooks meeting their match when they run
foul of another society of crooks, each believing the other honest. The suspense holds through, and when you say that
about a picture and mean it, you have the last word in entertainment. Music will be furnished by the Jazz
Orchestra. The campaign in support of Banner Elk School, conducted by Edgar Tufts, will be started within a short while
and Davidson men are asked to be thinking about the splendid work that has been started there, and give it
their hearty support. Beside this, there will be a collection of old clothes taken up, to be given to the
Crossnore School, another most commendable institution. Crossnore School is under the direction of Mrs. Mary Martin Sloop, who is a
sister of Dr. Martin, president of Davidson. This school is doing a great work in the mountain section of the
state, and deserves the support and interest of Davidson men. This collection of clothes will be made in the near
future, and definite announcement will be made soon. “When Bill was haled into court for speeding he offered the judge
a five cent cigar.” “Well what about it?” “In passing sentence, the judge took both crimes into consideration.” — Wet
Hen. a student of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, and a brother of Warren the idea of ‘giving like
better than this custom ... Perhaps It Isn’t Customary But if you should be possessed with a Christmas gift. we
know of nothing you’d TUX. —If you’re skeptical about $40 MELLON’S Charlotte, N. C. Counterfeiter—“I said the dollar was Cox,
’24, whose marriage was recently good and I mint it.”—Ollapod. yourself a Christmas gift, we know of nothing you’d like
better than a BRAEBURN TUX. —If you’re skeptical about the idea, pass the idea to dad.
