THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1927

"Shining Lights of Wildcat Line"

LAWS RIGGS McCONNELL ARROWOOD

Fats Laws is holding down the position of guard in such a style that opposing backs often find themselves thrown
for losses. Riggs McConnell, stepping into the center position following the injuries incurred by two regulars, has been able to
keep pace with the best of linesmen in this state. Arrowood, last of the famous trio of ends consisting of
himself, Bohannon, and Pinkney, is playing the same consistent game as in past years and figures in breaking up many
end runs attempted by opponents.

Davidson Golfers Meets at Gastonia

The Davidson golf team will go to Gastonia Saturday afternoon to compete with a team representing the Gastonia Country Club.
This match, which will be over an 18-hole course, will be the first of a series of meets at the
country clubs of several surrounding towns. The team, which has already been selected, will be composed of Lingle, Martin, Mills,
and Wilson. These men have been practicing daily and at present are engaged in a Round Robin to determine the
standing of each member of the team. The golf team, under the management of “Sloppy” Lingle, has been invited to
enter a tournament at the Sedgefield Country Club of Greensboro on December 3, and although no definite plans have been
made, it is probable that the Davidson team will enter.

After eloping, a couple stood at the front door of the preacher’s house. “I’m going to church services now,” he
told them. “Come on and I'll marry you there.” After delivering a short sermon at the church, the preacher said,
“If there is anyone who would like to be married, please come forward.” Fifteen women and four men responded to
the call.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see M. P. Crawford. QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES

Star Senior Players to Play Selected

Nineteen Players from Ten Colleges Are Called

V. M. I. STAR PICKED

Tennessee, Georgia, and Vandy Head List With Largest Number—No N. C. Players

Nineteen players have been nominated by southern conference coaches to play on an all-star team that is to represent the
south in an intersectional game with a picked Pacific coast team. The game will be played in Los Angeles on
Christmas. The above information comes from the Knoxville Journal, but that paper does not give the source of information, saying
that it is not privileged to disclose the sources. Among the nineteen men are two that have played against Davidson,
Middlekauf of Florida and Barnes of V. M. I. Both of these men are backs. The men nominated are all
southern conference stars and are as follows: Batcher of Tennessee and Sharp of Vanderbilt, centers. Bowdoin of Alabama; Smith of
Georgia; Smith of Ole Miss; and Barnwell of Tennessee, linesmen. Hood of Georgia; Nash of Georgia; Cowley of Georgia Tech;
Browne of Tulane; and Creson of Vanderbilt, ends. Dodson of Tennessee; Brown of Alabama; Spears of Vanderbilt; Middlekauf of Florida;
Cohen of Ole Miss; Barnes of V. M. I.; Godfrey of Louisiana State; and Menville of Tulane, backs. The above
nineteen men represent ten colleges and universities. They, with the number of men nominated, are as follows: Tennessee, three; Vanderbilt,
three; Georgia, three; Alabama, two; Ole Miss, two; Tulane, two; and the following had one each, Georgia Tech, Florida, V.
M. I., and Louisiana State. The men nominated are all seniors and were chosen for that reason, the purpose being
to have an all-senior team to represent the southern conference. Although the team to be played has not been selected
yet, it is practically a certainty that the team will be composed of star players that play in the Pacific
coast conference.

Freshman is being questioned at September physical examination:

Doctor—"Calf?”
Fresh—“Fourteen inches.”
Dr—“Thigh?”
Fresh—“Twenty-two inches.”
Dr—“Neck?”
Fresh—“Yes, sir?”

Fraternity Conference to Meet

Students, College Presidents, Deans, and Professors to Discuss Problems at Annual Conclave

Scholarship Question, Economy in Education, and Development of Freshmen to be ForemostThe Interfraternity Conference, annually representing every men’s fraternity at
American colleges and universities, will meet at the Hotel Pennsylvania, New York City, November 25 and 26. More than 200
delegates, representing 60 different fraternities and coming from a hundred institutions of learning, will be present when the conference is
called to order by Judge William H. Bayes, chairman of the interfraternity organization. A number of college presidents and a
score of deans and professors from all sections of the country will meet with the fraternity delegates for a mutual
discussion of collegiate problems. Among the colleges to be represented will be Illinois, Yale, Cornell, Columbia, Penn State, Rutgers, Wisconsin,
Minnesota, Michigan, and many others.

First among the subjects for general discussion will be the question of scholarship, for the Interfraternity Conference has been actively
cooperating with college officials in an attempt to better the scholastic standing of students. Other problems to come before the
meeting will be the movement for economy in education, the fraternity’s relation to the parents of its members, and the
proper development of freshmen.

One Man Killed and Five Hurt in Wreck

One man was killed and five others were seriously injured in an automobile accident near Davidson last Friday night. Fred
Mayhew, 33, pressing club owner and operator of Davidson, was fatally injured and died at the Mooresville hospital with a
fractured skull. The injured were Willie Walley, of Iredell County, with severe bruises and lacerations; Lewis Sherrill, also of Iredell
County, with painful cuts and bruises; Mrs. Lewis Sherrill, reported in a serious condition resulting from lacerations and shock; and
Will Sherrill, with a broken collarbone, severe bruises, and possible internal injuries.

Witnesses say that the accident, which occurred at a point on the old Rock Road, about two miles from Davidson,
came when the car driven by Mr. Mayhew collided with the one driven by Walley, with whom the Sherrills were
riding. The Walley car was turned over with the force of the impact and severely injured the occupants. Mr. Mayhew’s
car skidded along the road for a distance and, leaving the road, turned over three times and landed on its
wheels. The jolt hurled Mr. Mayhew free of the wreckage, but his skull was fractured in the collision. The survivors
were unable to summon assistance for some time. Passing motorists finally brought word of the wreck to Davidson, from which
point aid was sent to the victims. Mayhew was taken by automobile to Mooresville, unconscious, and died without regaining consciousness.

Mr. Mayhew was well known at Davidson among the student body. He handled dry cleaning work for a large number
of the students, being represented on the campus by John T. Emby. He was always an enthusiastic supporter of everything
that was of interest to Davidson and helped whenever he could to promote student projects. He is survived by his
widow and three small children.

Harvard’s Tutorial System Discussed

Cambridge, Mass.—(By the New Student Service).—Harvard’s tutorial system, recognized generally as the American counterpart of the Oxford and Cambridge plans,
and the goal toward which many universities in this country are working, is not only different from the British plans,
but is not meant to approximate them. This was explained in the Crimson by Professor R. M. Eaton, chairman of
the board of tutors in philosophy, who believes that the lecture system “must continue to bear the load of imparting
information, while the tutor integrates this diverse material and aids the student in gaining an intelligent grasp of the whole
field.”

In contrast to the function of the Oxford tutor who prepares his student for examinations, the Harvard plan assumes that
his course gives the student sufficient information for that, leaving the tutor free to unify the knowledge and humanize it.
For this reason, Prof. Eaton believes the lecture and tutorial systems are interdependent, and regards as bad the possibility of
weakening either. The lecture system resulted in “written exposition” whereas the tutorial system permits “verbal discussion of the field.”

Professor Eaton defines the function of the tutor as that of discovering the “individuality of the student, finding his main
interests, and then arousing an expression of those ideas by which knowledge becomes a living part of the student’s mental
fiber.”

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The CREDENZA, $300.00
ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
All Models in Stock--Easy Terms
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
New York

The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
