THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1927

McKnight—“Have a smoke.”
Arrowood—“I don’t smoke.”
McKnight—“Do you drink, or chew?”
Arrowood—“No.”
McKnight—“Then what do you do to smell like a man?”

Hail Georgia! Who said legislators were dumb? Down in Georgia they passed a law that if a man serving a term in the penitentiary should die before his term expired, his brother would finish serving his sentence.

Summer Work! Men who are interested in work for the summer might be so fortunate as to secure a position in the new “Mooresville Vinegar Works.” See Fritz Littlejohn, agent.

A French-Canadian lumberman heard sniffs behind him. He looked back and discovered a huge bear smelling his tracks in the snow. “Ah ha,” he said, “You likee me tracks—me makee some more,”

Converse, Eh? Some men hope to receive their reward in heaven. Others are directors of girls’ glee clubs here on this earth.

Grey—“Who knows why a woman puts her hand to her chin when she thinks?”
Black—“Maybe it’s because she’s afraid she'll interrupt herself with conversation.”

Could He See It?
Rastus—“What you all been doin’ dis week, Sambo?”
Sambo—“Ise been wieldin’ a wicked hoe dis week, Rastus. What yo ben doin’?”
Rastus—“Boy, Ise been lookin’ at the southeast end of a mule goin’ northwest.”

He lent her his pen—“It writes beautifully,” said she. “I’m in love with its holder,” he said, and she saw the point.

A magazine writer says that a dog fills an empty place in a man’s life. We agree, especially the hot dog.

McDaniel—“And so you went to the dance at Mooresville. I didn’t think you could dance.”
Daniel—“Yeah, but boy! How I can intermission.”

Brown—“How often does the Gastonia Gazette pay you off, Fred?”
Fred Smith—“Once a month, if they don’t forget it.”

“A circus is a great leveler of humanity,” remarked the head stake driver as a tent pole fell upon a crowd of sightseers.

Captain—“Fix bayonet!”
Voice from the ranks—“There’s nothing wrong with mine, sir.”

“This is the place for me,” said the humorist at the store, “For here whene’er I tell a joke, the breakers simply roar.”

Prof. in Psych. I—“What do you associate with the word mutton?”
Freshman—“Jeff.”

Visitor (at funeral)—“Is that her coffin?”
Widower—“No, that’s my daughter. She has the croup.”—Technician.

Kid—“Father, I passed Cicero today.”
Father—“Did he speak?”

English Teacher—“I am beautiful. What tense is that?”
Bright Pupil—“Past.”

I'm glad I made you cry, little girl. Your face is cleaner now.

Evolution
My mother’s brother’s father’s cow’s brother was an ox.

Withers—“Snort Harrall ought to call his mustache, Faith.”
Story—“Howzat?”
Withers—“Well, it’s the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things unseen.”

“Now, I’ll drive the car,” said the old lady as she took her place on the back seat.

Prof. in Biology class—“What animal produces the most valuable fur?”
Vance—“The skunk. The more fur you are from it the better it is fur you.”

Prof. on Street—“Do you know who I am?”
Stude—“No, sir; but if you can remember your address I’ll take you home.”

“That is the stadium,”
Stude—“This is the stadium.”
Stude (beginning)—“Fine, now take us to the curriculum.”

Adviser—They say they have a good one here.—Punch Bowl.

It is easy enough to be happy when life is a bright, rosy wreath, but the man worth while is the man who can smile when theHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The dentist is filling his teeth. Mary asked, "Does she know much about motors?" "Heavens, no; she asked me if I cooled my car by stripping the gears." "I hear you've given up singing to the prisoners." "Yes, they complained that it wasn't in the penal code."

Wigg—"Give me a sentence with nautical in it." Wagg—"Why sure, that's easy. My gal's a naughty girl."

The stenographer’s oath, "By Gum!"

QUEEN CITY SCENE OF FRESH REVELRY (Continued from page 1)

The man chose his subject "Don't Park Here" while Professor Williams spoke on "Opportunities." Both were received with great applause. Music was furnished by an eight-piece freshman orchestra which proved to be excellent. Charlie Orr also rendered a violin solo accompanied by Mobley. A reading from Kipling was given by Hugh White. To cap the climax, a half-hour minstrel show was staged, which met with howling approval of all the guests. Following the regular program, the class went en masse to a theater party at the Broadway.

GLEE CLUB LEAVES (Continued from page 1)

The musical part of the program was dramatic. The orchestra, T. H. Hamilton, Director. Baritone solo, R. S. Lawrence; "Swinging Along" and "Dreamers," glee club; quartet, Green, Foster, McRae, and McGill; Wildcat Serenaders, C. J. Albright, director; "Keep on Hopin'." Second part: "Morning," glee club; quartet, selected; Wildcat Serenaders, selected; "Vesper Hymns," and "Oh! Davidson," glee club. Caldwell Withers, advance manager of the club, announces that there will probably be several more trips made to Mooresville, Statesville, Lenoir, and Denver before the season closes.

When my father was in college, "Put that in your pipe and smoke it!" was considered snappy conversation. I'm ready to take this old line literally when the talk centers around Prince Albert. All wise-cracking aside, P. A. is the money smoke. Cool as the trail of the ice-man across the kitchen. Sweet as vacation. Fragrant as a pine forest. Think up your own similes. You'll write them all in the column headed "Superlative Degree" when you learn the joys of a jimmy-pipe and Prince Albert. Come around to my room and I'll give you a load. 1927, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

PRINCE ALBERT—no other tobacco is like it!

QUICK SERVICE Agent for Charlotte, N. C. PRINTING When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see VERNON S. BROYLES BEST PRICES Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

WHOLESALE When You Need Candy See Us CAROLINA CIGAR & CANDY CO. 26-28 S. College St. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA The Finest Musical Instrument in the World Prices $95 to $1,000 All Models in Stock---Easy Terms NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY ANDREW'S MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.

Watches and Clocks Seal Stationery Pennants and Pillows Wildcat Belts Athletic Supplies W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C. COLLEGE JEWELRY Sheaffer Pens and Pencils

---