THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1927

STUDENT BODY DIRECTORY
(Continued from page 6)

Rollins, F. H., 301 Watts.
Ross, N. M., 106 Watts.
Rusk, Dean, 10 Georgia.
Rummage, H. T., Home.
Russell, R. D., 307 East.
*Salters, F. H., 212 Watts.
Saunders, Harold, 204 East.
Scales, Sidney, 9 Georgia.
Scroggs, F. M., 304 East.
Saverance, J. L., 7 Rumple.
Shepherd, A. H., 20 Georgia.
Sissons, C. A., 3 Georgia.
Smith, A. G., 411 West.
Smith, R. L., Home.
Stroud, E., 207 East.
Suggs, W. G., Jr., 16 North.
Sutliff, R. L., 414 East.
Taylor, A. C., 409 West.
Taylor, J. H., 113 West.
Thomas, J. R., Home.
Thompson, E. F., 15 North.
Thompson, W. C., E East.
Trenzado, E., 3 Rumple.
Turner, H. R., 15 Georgia.
Umphlett, L., 313 West.
Verreault, F. J., 4 East.
Walton, R. H., Williams’.
Ward, J. A., 9 Rumple.
Watt, J., 206 Watts.
Weeks, G. L., 401 West.
Weeks, J. E., B West.
Wharton, C. W., 401 Watts.
White, C. E., 402 East.
Whitener, H. R., 414 East.
Wiley, S. S., 104 Watts.
Williams, G. W., Jr., 26 Georgia.
Williams, L., 401 East.
Wilson, F. L., 305 Watts.
Wilson, R. G., 15 Georgia.
Wilson, W. H., Home.
Wilson, W. J., 18 Georgia.
Witt, R. E., 407 West.
Wolf, Wm., E West.
Wood, F., Jr., 208 East.
Worrall, F. J., 208 East.

MUSICAL DEPARTMENT
(Continued from page 3)

Campus singing. By using traditional Davidson songs, fraternity songs, and popular college melodies, he hopes to make it one of
the most popular pastimes on the campus. How about on Home-Coming Day when the battle is over a “college song”
around the columns of Old Chambers. The practice will not be confined to Home-Coming Day but will be encouraged all
during the year.

If you are careless of your influences, you are careless of your character.

“Y” Column

Having gotten off to a good start this year, the Y will continue to bring the best available speakers to
Davidson, and following this idea will have for the leader next Sunday Col. Kirkpatrick, President of the Charlotte Chamber of
Commerce. This prominent lawyer has always been a very loyal supporter of the college and is a man who will
bring a practical message. He is one of Charlotte’s leading business men and will have a talk that ought to
be of great interest to all the student body. Remember the time and place—6:15, Shearer.

The Y is enlarging its field of work constantly, and most especially in Sunday School activity around Davidson and nearby
vicinities. Those who are interested in work of that sort are asked to see Leo Pritchett, Cabinet member who is
in charge of Sunday Schools. In a like manner, another phase of work has steadily grown, and anyone who would
like to get into Boys’ Work of any sort is asked to see John Melton, in charge of that particular
activity.

The Y feels fortunate in being able to announce that during the fall both O. Max Gardner, of Shelby, and
Bishop Penick, of Charlotte, will be here as speakers. These men are both very well-known and are leaders in their
chosen work. More specific notice will be made later.

A part of the Y. M. C. A. that is given very little thought by students in general is that
of World Evangelism. We have a living example of the great work that is being done in that direction in
the case of the Hangchow Fund, which is used in the advancement of the Master’s work far across the world.
It is a credit to Davidson that we are doing our part in world evangelism, but there still is a
great field left for valuable work along that line.

The Y is starting a class, to be conducted by Prof. Cullum, for all those who are interested in leading
singing in any sort of welfare clubs or organizations, such as boys’ clubs, evangelistic meetings, etc. In connection with this,
the Y is sponsoring a Y quartet, which will be used for special music at Vesper services, and will also
be sent on various deputations. This is just one of the new features the Y has added to better perform
its work.

CLEANING AND PRESSING
(Successors to the U-Name-It)

Submitted by R. O. Flynn. The second-best name was the WILDCAT PRESSING CLUB submitted by M. C. McQueen. The prizes
can be gotten from W. K. Gwin or M. P. Crawford. Quick and efficient service.

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, Sept. 26 and 27.
The Big Parade. Admission 50c

WEDNESDAY, Sept. 28
Lewis Stone in Prince of Headwaiters

THURSDAY, Sept. 29
Richard Dix in Shanghai Bound

FRIDAY, Sept. 30
Chas. Murray in Life of Riley

SATURDAY, Oct. 1
Tom Mix in a good Western

PROFESSOR CULLUM
(Continued from page one)

Lean, Laurinburg; Frank Pilcher, Charleston, W. Va.; A. J. Thompson, Badin; E. B. Hammack, Atlanta, Ga.

Second Tenors: C. L. Creech, Winston-Salem; E. L. Douglas, Augusta, Ga.; Robert Horton, Grenada, Miss.; D. H. Howard, W. F.
Kopp, Louisville, Ky.

First Bass: R. S. Abernethy, Winter Haven, Fla.; C. B. Yancey, Umatilla, Fla.; W. C. Archie, Salisbury; J. R. McCravey,
Forest, Miss.; R. S. Lowrance, Atlanta, Ga.; H. R. Whitener, Hickory; W. L. Lingle, Richmond, Va.; R. W. McDermid, Charleston,
S. C.; Murphy McKinnon, Maxton; W. B. Yancey, Umatilla, Fla.; J. A. Wilson, Montreat.

Second Basses: J. P. Thompson, Davidson; J. L. McNair, Laurinburg; M. M. King, Bristol, Va.; R. O. Flynn, Atlanta, Ga.;
C. K. Poole, Troy; A. R. Bird, Washington, D. C.; W. C. Knight, Greensboro; J. A. Jones, Laurinburg; D. H.
Leeper, Hiddenite; J. W. McCutcheon, Warm Springs; W. A. Nicholson, Garland; C. V. Wildman, Parmele.

An extensive trip is being planned for the Glee Club to take later in the year. As last year, this
trip will include stops at many of the North Carolina schools and cities, as well as several Virginia cities. Professor
Cullum plans to introduce several new numbers this year and to train the club on slightly different lines from those
which have formerly been followed. Some of the numbers he plans for the club to work on are: Some Twelfth
and Seventeenth Century Hymns. They include the “Crucifix” of Alotti, taken from the famous Nicene Creed (A. D. 225), an
arrangement of the Twenty-Third Psalm by Schubert, “Ave Maria,” as taken from the Repertoire Chanteurs de Saint Gervais, “The Brownies,”
by Leoni, “The Sheriff of Nottingham Song,” by DeKoven (taken from the famous DeKoven opera “Robin Hood”). These and others
will form the large number of compositions upon which the club will direct their work and study. Professor Cullum has
already formed a practice schedule and hopes to have the Glee Club in shape for a public appearance during the
fall. This is the first year in which Davidson has had a director who has been here at Davidson.and devoted
all of his time to the work of the Glee Club. In addition to this work, the R.O.T.C. is also
under the direction of Professor Cullum. Professor Cullum is well known in North Carolina and has been invited to speak
before the North Carolina State Teachers’ Association at the annual meeting on the 15th of October, in Asheville, N.C. The
whole student body, more especially the old men, were glad to see for a few days Bill Covington and Bill
Christian. These two were very prominent on the campus and were actively engaged in Y work. Covington was for two
years a Cabinet member in charge of personnel, and also vice-president of the Y. Christian was a Cabinet member for
one year in charge of attendance, and his last year was president of the Y. The Y was very glad
to see these men again, for they did a great work while here, and were faithful workers for the Y.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N.C.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE
MORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Lynchburg, Va.; R.E. Wilson, Charlotte;

IDEAL MODERN COLLEGE
(Continued from page one)

leges and the college man as formed in modern novels and newspapers. He then stated that he does not wish
to criticize the average college but to analyze it to see what it offers the individual for future enjoyment of
life. Dr. Mims sounded a warning against extreme specialization, that it might not take the place of a training of
an appreciation of all phases of life while one is preparing himself for the future. Among men who are considered
eminently successful by the world such as Henry Ford, Rockefeller, Darwin, Charles Spurgeon, Wm. J. Bryan, and others who have
devoted every ounce of their energy to the development of one phase of their life, there is a distinct loss
of the appreciation of things that make life more interesting, invigorating, and livable. On the other hand, men like Pasteur,
Martin Luther, John Wesley, Thomas Jefferson, Roosevelt, and Woodrow Wilson, who have been intensely interested in their business but who
have learned to enjoy the artistic in life, always find new thrills and pleasures in their associations with fine things,
and stay spiritually young until their death. An ideal education in a college of liberal arts has two fundamental results,
he said. The first, the power to think rightly, is the primary end of all culture. Independent thinking is the
glory and power of the collegiate world, however, there are dangers in the failure to discriminate between the extremes in
lines of thought. To learn to swing from one extreme without going to the other is a fair test of
whether or not a man’s education has given him the power to think rightly. Specialization hinders somewhat proper thinking in
that it destroys our perspective, making us see all things in the light of one, rather than one thing in
the light of all. The second result of an ideal education is the development of a love of beauty. Love
of beauty is not an aesthetic glow, but it must be developed, and to fail to do this is to
signally fail in life. It is a man’s religious duty to develop his sense of the beautiful. Life is more
than body, raiment, and food. It is the proper use and enjoyment of all those things with which God has
endowed the human spirit. In conclusion, Dr. Mims quoted Wilson again as he said that English literature is the birthright
of every man and woman who speaks the language of Shakespeare, and he who fails to use it, and enjoy
it, is missing one of his richest heritages. Dr. E.F. Shewmake, chairman of the faculty committee on public lectures, announced
that the next lecture will be offered on October 12th. The speaker will be Dr. M.H.H. Joachim, an eminent authority
of India, who will deliver one of his many interesting lectures on that great unknown country. Dr. Joachim has been
studying conditions there for many years and his lecture should prove profitable to all those who wish to take advantage
of his coming.

Expert advice
INDEPENDENCE
McALISTER CARSON (13) Mgr.

LET US TAKE CARE OF YOUR INSURANCE NEEDS!
Efficient service
Fair adjustments
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

MAYHEW’S SATISFY
And where $4.00 buys ticket good for $6 worth of work
J.T. EMBREY, Agent
BRIGGS ARRINGTON, Assistants

CONGLOMERATE VIEW
(Continued from page one)

prayer meeting on the top floor of one of the austere dormitories, which was conducted, the prayer meeting and not
the dormitory, by the Privy Council of the Royal Order of High’n’mity Oatfeeling Sophomores. From this meeting he emerged much
sadder and very much wiser, with an enlarged group of acquaintances. Among the latter were those whose names were strangely
familiar, yet forbidden because of their unusual motivation to paddle-provoking activities. He located his habitat, and purchased his laundry ticket
and chapel seat. He refused to buy radiator privileges because, as he said to the salesman, he had been used
to rising and attiring himself in the most rigorous temperature without discomfort. Under the patronizing guidance of Only-a-mere Junior, he
was conducted about the quadrangle, familiarizing himself with the locations of the important class buildings, laboratories, drinking fountains and avenues
of escape. He showed great interest in the tiled swimming pool in the basement of Watts dormitory, and inspected with
genuine admiration the quaintly designed individual boxes at the local mail distribution depot. When the stately trees began to cast
their shadows eastward, and the deepening twilight spread a mantle of oblivion over the familiar landmarks of the grounds, he
followed the example of the domestic fowls, and betook himself to his lofty roost, and there, on the downy bosom
of the magnificent old four-poster, he sank into a tranquil slumber, while the subtle beams of a waning moon cast
grotesque shadows over his recumbent form. Mr. Average Frosh was acclimated, thoroughly orientated, and at home.

PERSONALS
Mr. L.D. Wharton, Jr., ’27, reporter for the Greensboro Daily News was a visitor to the campus during the past
weekend. He was in Davidson reporting football prospects for his newspaper. C.H. Pierce, ’05, is now residing in Smithfield, N.C.,
where he is employed by the Holt Oil Company. L.L. Deck, ’26, is now teaching at the Georgia Military Academy,
College Park, Georgia. J.M. Rumple, ’13, who has been located in South America, has recently returned to the United States,
and is now living at 3611 Windsor Mill Road, Baltimore, Maryland.

KODAK WORK
For best work and quick service see
PAUL THROWER
7 South Barnett, Agent

Prompt Settlement
TRUST COMPANY
M.B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)
PHONE 240
