8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 5, 1927

“Y” Plans Mother’s Day Vesper Service

A special Mother’s Day service has been planned for “Y” Vespers, Sunday night, May 8th. This program will be the third service of the year conducted by the students, the Christmas program and one of the first services of the year being conducted by them. Bill Christian, the retiring president, will be in charge and the principal speaker of the hour will be Harllee Branch. It suffices to say that with these men leading, the meeting will be well worth while. Special music is being planned by the quartet and it is possible that others will aid them. That it will be held in the open air, weather permitting, will be another attraction of the meeting. Chairs will be provided at the rear of the “Y” Hall to accommodate the students and townspeople.

This is the second open meeting held this year. The first was an Easter song service held during the holidays. This meeting was nicely attended in spite of the fact that many of the students were off the campus. As the weather grows warmer, our religious fervor is inclined to become cooled but, fellows, there are just two or three more meetings to be held this year and let’s come out and make them the best ever. Especially let’s come to this meeting in remembrance of those mothers whom we have left behind.

Two New Men Bid by Sigma Upsilon

A special election was held by the Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity to supplement that of Tuesday, April 26. Two new members were bid, Chalmers Davidson and Malcolm Murchison. Both of these new members have shown unusual interest in literature and English.

Davidson is a student of unusual ability, having a high standing in his class. During his Sophomore year, he was a member of the Beaver Club. He is an English Assistant, and a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Murchison has shown much interest in the work of the English department, and in the literary affairs of the college. He is associate editor of Quips and Cranks, and also of the Chameleon.

The Sigma Upsilon fraternity enjoys the distinction of being the oldest and largest honorary fraternity on the campus.

Feminine Ages

Six—“Nice Mans,”
Nine—“Carry my books.”
Sixteen—“I’ll ask mother.”
Twenty—“Drive faster.”
Twenty-five—“Do call me up.”
Forty—“Nice Mans.”

Everything comes to him who orders

Dorothy Gish HATS | NEW STETSON | $8.00

Davidson Theatre DAVIDSON, N. C.

Monday-Tuesday, May 9-10
Bebe Daniels in “Tiptoes”

Wednesday, May 11
Lois Moran in “Whirlwind of Youth”

Thursday, May 12
Raymond Griffith in “Wedding Bells”

Friday, May 13
Bettie Bronson in “Ritzy”

Saturday, May 14
Bob Custer in “Out of the West”

FASHION PARK CLOTHES Exclusive With Efird’s in Charlotte

New Collegiate Styles for Spring, $50.00

Just arrived, scores of smart suits for spring. Correctly tailored of fine materials in blues, grays, tans, and mixtures. Loose sack coat, two or three buttons, single or double-breasted. Suits of quality in distinctive styles, exclusive with Efird’s in Charlotte.

FANCY SILK SOCKS 75c. PR. MEN'S DEPT., STREET FLOOR

Funeral Services Held for Prof. Brown’s Wife

College Activities Suspended During Hour of Funeral

Mrs. C. K. Brown, wife of Professor C. K. Brown, of Davidson, died on Saturday afternoon, April 30th, at a Salisbury hospital. Her death was due to complications following an operation for appendicitis. Mrs. Brown was taken to the hospital earlier in the week and, as her condition was not thought to be serious, her death came as a shock to her many friends and acquaintances. The funeral services were held Monday morning, May 2nd.

The funeral services were conducted by Dr. James Taylor, of Washington, D. C., pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church, who was Mrs. Brown’s pastor for many years. He was assisted by Rev. Edgar Woods, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, of Salisbury, who was Mr. Brown’s pastor before he came to Davidson. The service was held at the home and the interment followed at the Davidson cemetery. All college activities were suspended at eleven o'clock, the hour of the funeral.

The pallbearers were Professors A. V. Goldiere, H. T. Lilly, J. P. Williams, and O. J. Thies; Captain George H. Weems, Lieutenant R. C. Beckett, F. W. Hengeveld, and H. M. Arrowood, the president of the student body of Davidson. The entire faculty, many students, and numerous friends attended the services.

Besides her husband, Mrs. Brown is survived by her father, mother, three sisters, and one brother, all residents of Washington, D. C. Her brother, Jim, is a student at Davidson at the present time. This is his first year here. Relatives from Washington were unable to arrive before her death.

Mrs. Brown came to Davidson several years ago and filled a position as a teacher in the public schools of the town. She met Mr. Brown here and they were married only seventeen months ago. She was twenty-five years old at the time of her death. Mrs. Brown was well known to all the citizens of Davidson and to a great many of the students here. She was also known in other parts of the state, having spent part of last year in Chapel Hill at the University. Due to the short illness before her death, her friends, the townspeople, and the students were greatly shocked by the news of her death. All extend to Mr. Brown their deepest regrets and sympathy in his bereavement.

Davidson Freshmen Lose to Duke Imps

Duke Fresh baseball team frocked the Wildkittens Friday in a one-sided slugging match, winning by the score of 21 to 5. The Duke team, playing on their own grounds, outclassed the Davidson Fresh in both fielding and batting. Errors in the infield featured the ragged playing of the Wildkitten nine. A total of ten errors was amassed by both the infield and outfield. All these were well distributed between the whole team.

Hampton started in the box for Davidson and remained for only a short stay. In the second inning of the game, the Duke batters ran wild, hitting timely to make eight runs out of three hits. Men on base from errors were easily scored by these hits, one of which was a three-base hit, another a two-base, and the other a single. Kugler and Henderson were also placed on the mound for the Davidson Fresh.

Keeping up the steady pace they started in the second inning, the Duke teamTotaled a score of twenty runs. Five runs in the fifth was the second “high score” for the Blue Stockings. Parish led the hitting for the Davidson nine with a double and a single out of three trips to the bat. Williams, Miller, Gladstone, and Prevost each hit one apiece. Several Duke men featured the day with long, extra-base hits. One home run, a triple, six two-base hits, and many singles were hit off the Wildkitten pitchers. Hawkins, an outfielder, was the most consistent hitter for Duke, connecting with four hits out of five times at bat.

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Eumenean Eu Society opened their meeting last Thursday night with a debate, the subject of which was, Resolved, that the present method of holding Junior Speaking should be abolished. The members of the affirmative were Murray Christian and Dick Flinn. They were opposed by Bill Dobbins and Tom Preer on the negative. After the debate, a reading was rendered by Mac King. Hugh White entertained the society with a recitation of Gunga Din by Kipling. At this meeting, a joint committee composed of members of the Phi and Eu societies was named to petition the faculty that credits be given for the work in literary societies. In years past, the societies held an enviable place of influence and importance on the campus. Of late years, this position has gradually declined until the interest in the work of the societies has not been sufficient. The cause of this decrease cannot be definitely determined. It is possible that the increase in intercollegiate debating and in athletics has drawn the interest of the student body. It is hoped, however, that if credit is given by the college for the work done in the societies, an increase will take place in the results obtained. It was also agreed at this meeting that a joint “feed” of the two societies will be held in the near future.

Philanthropic Phi Society installed the officers elected for the following year at their meeting Thursday night. Henry Powell received the office of President; Frank Hall, Vice-President; Boyd, Secretary; Charley McCrae, First Critic; and R. C. Grady, Treasurer. A debate was heard between Hamilton and Phillips, and current events were read by John Crinkly.

The summary of runs by innings follows:
Davidson Duke Fresh
082 10 I 200 O12— 5
315 20x—21

Davidson Men Are Stars in Tourney

In the second annual South Carolina State Tennis Tournament held recently in Charleston, L. M. McCutchen and Dick Carr, Davidson stars, were finalists, opposing Jack Mooney and Col. Waite Johnston of Fort Benning. Mooney is the holder of the singles championship in the state and Colonel Johnston is an old hand at the game, and the Davidson team rushed them through four strenuous sets to lose 6-8, 6-2, 7-5, 6-2. Playing on even terms with Mooney and Johnston, the Davidson pair broke through from six all in games to win the first set. Both were lobbing wonderfully well, and their tactics were a match for the two veteran netmen. McCutchen’s frequent overhead was roaring through his opponent’s defense for frequent points, and Carr contributed invaluable steadiness and good service. The Davidson team came from behind a 0-3 disadvantage to win the first set at 8-6, but the experience and accuracy of the veterans were always present, and the older pair soon got going. Despite the speed and extraordinary power of McCutchen and Carr, the more experienced pair won the second set at 6-2. The Davidson pair came back and made a strong bid for the third set but lost this set at 7-5. The score for the last set was 6-2. McCutchen and Carr played a fast game throughout and furnished many thrilling moments for the gallery. The drive and force of the collegians were overcome only by the experience of the veteran tennis stars.

He had just arrived from the country and was not familiar with the use of the telephone, so he took the receiver and demanded: “I want to talk to my wife.” The operator’s voice came back sweetly: “Number please.” “Oh,” he replied, “She’s my second one.”

He put his arm around her, and the color left her cheek; but it showed upon his overcoat, for just about a week.

“Y” Notes

The speaker at “Y” on Sunday, May 1, will be the Hon. Clyde R. Honey of Shelby, N. C., a well-known lawyer and speaker, a former Congressman, and the famous teacher of a very large Bible class. This man will bring a wonderful message to Davidson College. Don’t fail to hear him at any cost—6:15—Sunday—Shearer.

The “Y” Handbook for next year is rapidly being prepared for publication under the direction of its editor, Carter Rowe. The business part of this organization has also begun to function, as Bill Caldwell, business manager, has started his work. More news later.

The “Y” is to have a Mission Week, during which time all sorts of missionary literature, charts, and pictures will be on display at the “Y” rooms. This week will follow the institute so excellently led by Rev. E. Darby Fulton. This will be very interesting to any who may be interested in mission work of any sort.

The Quadwranglers met at their hall last Friday, at which time Dr. Daynal of Statesville spoke on forests. Miss Anna Howard has returned to her home in Charlottesville, Va., accompanied by her niece, Mrs. J. M. McConnell.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Professional Notices

Phones: Office, 588-- Residence, 65.J
DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance
Commercial National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays 12 to 2

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
812, 313, 314, and 315 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 6050. Residence, 1937-J

Dr. J. R. BELL
DENTIST
Knox Bldg.
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Hours 8:30-5

PRINTING
VERNON S. BROYLES
QUICK SERVICE
Agent for Charlotte, N. C.
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see
BEST PRICES
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.