THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 1, 1927

WILDCATS BOW
(Continued from page 1)

point that could be termed as brilliant. This was in their trick plays. They were worked out to perfection and three of them went for a total of 70 yards. Lateral passes were used and executed by Grey and Harrison that took the Duke team by surprise and resulted in the longest gains of the day. Two of these plays in succession resulted in the lone touchdown scored by Davidson.

The game opened as Duke kicked to Davidson. After three plays had failed to gain the required distance, Grey was rushed as he punted and a short kick netted only 15 yards. Duke took the ball on their 40-yard marker and from there went over for the opening score a few minutes after play had begun.

In the second quarter, after punts had been exchanged, the Blue Devils found themselves deep in their own territory, and here they pulled a play that pulled them back from any disadvantage they might have suffered. A low punt was gotten off from close formation, and soared over the heads of the entire Davidson team. The Wildcats were on the offensive 20 yards from their own goal line. After failing to gain, they punted to Duke, and shortly after this the score was 14-0 to the credit of Duke.

Duke had possession of the ball on their own 45-yard marker, and only a few inches to make on the last down, but the Davidson team held them and it was then that two lateral passes, with Grey carrying the ball, netted 44 yards and a pass from Grey to McGeachy was over the line for Davidson’s only touchdown. Grey dropkicked the extra point. The half ended with the Davidson team trailing 14-7.

If such a game could have a determining break in it, it came early in the second half. Davidson kicked off to Duke and held them in their tracks for three downs. Buie attempted to punt, but was rushed too much, and wildly heaved the ball in a northeasterly direction. Harrison, playing for a return, cut the end out and the ball came down near the two. The pass was ruled completed because of interference, and it was then that the Duke team started on a rampage that was to continue until the Wildcats were snowed under.

The story of the remaining touchdowns is a story of Buie, Hollingsworth and Jankoski plowing through the Davidson line and of passes completed from the fingers of Buie. Late in the third quarter Davidson had possession of the ball near mid-field and a triple pass ending in Harrison’s arms netted 35 yards, and another score seemed possible, but a bad pass from center resulted in a recovery for the Blue Devils, and a threat was wiped out. Again near the end of the game, Arrowood blocked a punt on Buie’s toe, but fingering the ball as he attempted to pick it up with an open field before him, cost too much time and he was downed 30 yards from the goal line. Again the Davidson team could not gain through the strong Duke defense.

Culp, Kelly, Thompson and Hunter played great games in the Duke line, opening up holes for their backs to twist and plunge their way through. Hunt, Melton and Arrowood bore the brunt of the Davidson defense.

The line-up and summary:
Duke Position Davidson
Warren .......... LE .......... Arrowood
Thompson ...... LT .......... Baker
Jones ............ LG .......... McColgan
Brummitt ....... Center ...... McConnell, R.
Munroe .......... RG .......... Laws
Culp .............. RT .......... Grey, J.
Kelly ............. RE .......... McGeachy
Biles ............. QB .......... Harrison
Hatchet .......... LH .......... Grey, D.
Hollingsworth .. RH .......... Black
Jankoski ......... FB .......... Nesbit

Score by periods:
Duke ............ 7 7 20 14—48
Davidson ....... 0 7 0 0—7

Substitutions—For Duke: Bennett for Kelly; Hunter for Brummitt; Adams for Hollingsworth; Weaver for Adams; Weatherby for Culp; Peeler for Bennett; Bolich for Jankoski. For Davidson: Melton for Grey, J.; Hunt for McColgan; Matthews for Black; McConnell, T., for Moulden; Kell for Matthews; Baker for Laws; Hampton for McConnell, R.; Parrish for Harrison; Smith for Leftwich.

Officials: Majors (Auburn), referee; Case (Lehigh), umpire; Rawson (Georgia), headlinesman.

DAVIDSON TEAM
(Continued from page one)

Then came the games with Wofford and Elon, which were won without a great deal of trouble, although it was necessary to keep the first string men in these games all the time.

The turning point of the season came when Wake Forest, whom early-season dope rated very low, fought Davidson to a standstill and a 13-13 tie in the Memorial stadium at Greensboro. It was a surprisingly hard game, and the tie was snatched from the bag just as the crowd was beginning to leave in the final quarter.

From then on the Wildcats found the traveling very rough until the end of the season. Fighting all the time, giving their best, they still found themselves matched against superior teams and wereforced to admit three defeats in a row at the hands of the Big Five and a 19-0 defeat from V. M. I. The game on Homecoming day was played before a large gathering of old Davidson men, and the team gave the Cadets a very lively afternoon but were unable to push over a score. Greensboro again saw Davidson in action against the state champions of North Carolina State. The great McDowall turned in one of his greatest games and was too much for our boys to handle. His work was almost completely responsible for Davidson’s defeat. The following week, at Chapel Hill, Carolina rose up and in one of the two best games she played, avenged the stinging defeat of last year by a 27-0 count. This was the largest score by which Carolina has beaten Davidson in many seasons. Something evidently happened to Carolina just before the game that lasted them for the last two weeks, because within seven days they had tucked Duke away by 18-0. The Thanksgiving game with Duke was lost 48-7. A brilliant triple pass play with Charley Harrison ending up the play with a 25-yard run was Davidson’s feature play. Duke opened up with the most powerful backfield drive of any team seen in action against Davidson in many seasons and were able to gain consistently, Jankoski, all-state fullback, and Buie, mentioned by many as all-state quarter, leading the attack. In games won and lost, Davidson broke exactly even, losing 4, tying 1, and winning 4. The points scored were, Davidson 81, Opponents 134. To pick out individual stars from the team for the past season is difficult. Thanksgiving is always a time of sadness when men who have been fighting it out for Old Davidson pass from the field for the last time. Tears were in the eyes of many Davidson students and friends as Captain Dick Grey was carried off the field on the shoulders of his classmates. Dick’s fighting heart and remarkable ability on the field have made him one of Davidson’s most valuable players. His toe saved many games for the school during his three years on the squad, and his loss will be felt very heavily by the team and the school alike. He is typically a Davidson man, hard-fighting, clean-playing, a friendly gentleman. The other Seniors who finished their careers this year, among them, in the line, are “Fats” Laws and Lewis McColgan. These men have seen plenty of service regularly and have been two mainstays in the forward wall. “Fats” was the most consistent player on the team, while Lewis was hard to beat, receiving mention as all-state. On the ends, the squad will lose three varsity men. Hugh Arrowood, the old reliable, closes out his football with a season of hard-playing, consistent action. He is one of the team’s pillars, being a member of the championship team of last season. Wearn and McGeachy, other Seniors who are leaving, have alternated at the other end positions and have both played very excellent games. Wearn was injured in the Carolina game and was out of the Duke game with a sprained ankle. Both men have been valuable and will be missed next year. In the backfield, Mutt Nisbet, with the exception of Captain Grey, has seen most service, and will be greatly needed when the next team is built. He has battered forward walls all season with a drive that has gained plenty of yards this year. His defensive work has been good, even more valuable than his offensive play. Charlie Harrison, the thrill-furnisher and ball-toter de luxe, has also done his last bit for Davidson. Charlie’s sudden dashes in gloomy moments have brought back the fighting spirit to the team on several occasions. Ed Wilson, at quarter, has acted as field-general for nearly the entire season. His accurate passing has been responsible for many large gains, particularly near the first of the season, and he was a big factor in Davidson’s flying start. Other men on the squad have played excellent games all season, but space will not permit reference to them. Fresh Murphy is so honest he won't own any other car except a straight eight.

CREDENZA, $300.00
The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
ANDREW’S
213 N. Tryon St.
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
MUSIC STORE
Charlotte, N. C

ALLAN FREW

By EFIRD’S—
Will Show at Eu. Hall on
Also
Tues. and Wed. Dec. 6 and 7
A Full Line of Men’s Clothing, Top
Coats, Suits and Haberdashery —
An Excellent Line of Appropriate Gift Suggestions
Campus Representative