TieDA VID SONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 15, 1927 No. 14

Dr. D. A. Robertson Delivers Annual Phi Beta Kappa Address in Shearer Hall

‘D’ Club Neophytes

Several Hundred Attend Public Initiation Ceremonies

FOURTEEN INITIATED

Methods of Measuring Ideal of Scholarship attacked by Member of Education Council

Several hundred people who attended the public initiation ceremonies of the Phi Beta Kappa national scholastic fraternity last night with the expectation of hearing scholarship extolled as the infallible measure of man, were surprised when Dr. David A. Robertson, of Washington, D. C., member of the American Council on Education and former dean of the University of Chicago, threw a bombshell into the ranks of bookworms, grade-grubbers and pedants by branding such a measure as deceptive. Dr. Robertson, recognized as a pioneer in the movement to bring education to the masses in America and to lift American colleges and universities to a plane on which they can compare favorably with leading foreign institutions, scored in no uncertain terms the old idea that scholarship was the most accurate measure of a man’s chances for success.

Publicly Initiated

According to the latest copies of the “Daily Helper,” so generously distributed by newsboy Pat Harmon on last Thursday, the first public “D” Club initiation of the year was a complete success. This periodical, which was brilliantly illustrated throughout, gave a very satisfactory survey of the afternoon's demonstration, and the news it contained was “good to the last drop.” Prepared for the worst, the colored band, led by Drum Major McConnell, appeared on the scene in triumphal march promptly at 3:00 o'clock to present the most prolific entertainment that has ever been witnessed on the campus. Mlle Shoeman Shrink accompanied the troupe as Madame Fifi, and though she appeared in a much abbreviated costume, she was able to garner a good bit of interest from the innocent bystanders by the sale of discarded ducks, selling at a penny apiece. Council laws were flouted when Mandy and Grappler Robinson went the rounds of the audience boldly dispensing red shellac, which bore the guarantee of curing angina pectoris, raising hair and taking the lining from pockets, chillblains, fever, dropsy, and also removing stains from clothing.

Fifteen Games Listed on Basketball Schedule

Seven Teams Play Here

University of North Carolina Will Come Here

TWO TRIPS

First Game of Season Will be Played Saturday Night Against Salisbury “Y”

Manager Carson, of the basketball team, has announced a tentative basketball schedule that consists of 15 games, seven of which are to be played at Davidson and the remaining eight with schools off the hill. The games played away from Davidson will be reached with two trips, the team being away from Davidson seven days the first trip and four days the second, during which time they will meet eight teams, five with South Carolina schools and the remaining three with Tar Heel teams. The first game of the season is to be played Saturday night at Salisbury "Y". The next game does not follow until January 11th, which is the first college team the Wildcats meet. This game is with Duke, and is to be played at Davidson. Following this, the Wildcats meet both Furman and Guilford on the home ground, the games to be played January 13th and 16th, respectively.

“When the Phi Beta Kappa fraternity was founded in 1776 by a group of Sophomores at William and Mary College, they made no measuring rod of scholarship. I have a hunch that those Sophomores were fair representatives of the ‘flaming youth of their day,’ and that they chose their rather high-flown Greek motto with a boldness not unlike that resorted to by modern-day youth,” Dr. Robertson averred. “There was certainly no (Continued on page 8)

Students Make Response to Banner Elk Campaign

Returns From Dormitory Canvass Are Very Satisfactory

According to a statement made from the office of the local “Y”, the recent mission campaign for funds to aid in work at Banner Elk, N. C., has greatly exceeded expectations. The “Y” cabinet had set as its goal $1,000 to be used in the behalf of the mountain boys of that section of North Carolina and also in the mountain districts of surrounding states. It is said that the returns from the canvassing were very satisfactory and that the Davidson boys made a quick response to this call for funds. The report is as yet incomplete, but it is thought by officials that when all pledge cards are collected and a count is made, the amount will go somewhat over $1,000. It is the intention of the “Y” to send a check for $500 to the Plumtree School for Boys before Christmas. It is in this way that the “Y” wishes to make a Christmas present of $50 to each of ten boys in order that they may go to school. The work of this campaign was done by a committee composed of three men from each class and one man from each fraternity house. This committee selected as many other men as they wished to help them in the work and last week they canvassed the entire school for funds. Every student was given an opportunity to give something by immediate donation or by pledging some amount that may be paid off from time to time, it not being necessary to pay it all until next March. It will be remembered that the cabinet of the Y. M. C. A. decided after a thorough investigation of the project at Banner Elk that the proceeds from the mission campaign this year should go for that work. It is the plan of the cabinet that the money shall be (Continued on page 5)

and the most obstreperous stomach. Col. Missing Link entertained with a brief stein on the advantages and disadvantages of love, using in support of his arguments many absorbing and enlightening illustrations that were of local interest. The remainder of the group rendered some songs and dialogue, and were finally so mixed up that, were it not for the timely designation of the peanut race, a physician would have had to be called to straighten out the confusion. The peanut race served as a climax to the program, and the troupe left with faces filled with foreboding, for what was to happen that night was nobody's business.

Exams furnish the second break of the season. The first game after the holidays is the one with Wofford at Davidson. The last home game to be played is with Lenoir-Rhyne, on February 7th. Following the last home game the team leaves on their first trip which lasts seven days. This is rapidly followed with the shorter trip, which ends with the last game of the season, with Duke, in Durham, N. C. More games are pending, but the tentative schedule as it now stands is as follows:

December 17th—Salisbury “Y”, Davidson.
January 11th—Duke (Continued on page 5)

Glee Club Completes Successful Road Trip

Junior Speaking to Feature Dramatics

The outstanding phase of the Junior program next spring will be the dramatic presentation given by members of the class on the second night of the three-day program. Bob Covington, chairman of the Dramatic Committee, states that plans for the night are well under way, and that final arrangements will soon be completed. The committee has decided tentatively on a threefold problem, calling for selections by the Glee Club, a presentation by the Red and Black Masquers, and the presentation of a one-act play or comedy skit by members of the Junior class only which is to be written by some member of the class of ’29. A rather unique plan has been decided upon by the dramatic committee for the selection of the play to be presented. A ten-dollar prize is to be awarded the member of the class whose work is chosen by a set of judges appointed by the committee. Members of the committee felt that the offering of this prize would stimulate keen competition among those interested and bring out much previously unknown talent. The prize is being given by the finance committee of the class.The rules for the contest as drawn up by the committee are: (1) The production (Continued on page 5)

Last Thursday the Davidson Glee Club left on a three-day trip to as many different cities to give concerts, the first concert being given in Winston-Salem, at Salem College for Women. Following the program at Salem, the Glee Club went to Greensboro and presented a program at Greensboro College for Women. Saturday night the club came back to Salisbury and gave a concert at Catawba College; after this program the members returned to the campus to spend Sunday, before leaving Monday morning for Durham to enter the State Glee Club contest. According to comments from the press of the state, the Glee Club was warmly received at the three cities where it presented programs, and was welcomed by large audiences. One man following the concert at Catawba is reported to have stated that he had heard the Glee Club for over six years, and that they were better then than at any concert he had heard before. The club was transported in two large buses, the full club of 41 members being taken on the trip, and in two of the cities were taken care of in private homes during their stay in the city. John Foster, president of the club, stated that although they did not expect the organization to make any money on the trip, he at least expected to break even. The program presented by the Davidson (Continued on page 5)

Choose Teams for Chambers Fund is Nearly Completed

Ten thousand more dollars and New Chambers will be under way to completion. It is necessary to raise three hundred thousand dollars before further work on the building can be started, and the administration has on hand pledges for two hundred and ninety thousand dollars. The lacking ten thousand dollars must be supplied by the first of January or ten thousand will be lost to the cause, for one subscription for ten thousand dollars was pledged with the stipulation that the necessary fund would be raised by the first of the year. A statement from Dr. W. J. Martin says that the needed ten thousand will be raised by Christmas, if not before, or he will be very disappointed. The architect, Mr. H. C. Hibbs, of Nashville, Tenn., well known as a designer of college buildings, having drawn the plans for Vanderbilt, Peabody, and Southwestern, has the final drafts for the Chambers almost ready to submit. Contractors’ bids will soon be called, and 60 days should see material on the ground if not actual excavation started. The plan is to first complete the north wing of Chambers, and then complete the center, which will house the auditorium. It is estimated that four hundred thousand dollars will be necessary to finish and equip the New Chambers building entirely. With only ten thousand more dollars to raise, and that in sight, it appears that the long-dreamed-for New Chambers will soon be a reality. This building will greatly alleviate the present crowded condition and inadequate facilities under which the college is running. The new construction will provide new science rooms and laboratories, other classrooms and offices, and the much-needed auditorium. According to the present outlook, the building should be under construction not later than March, if not before, and will in all probability be available for use by the opening of the next school session. The completion of New Chambers is and has been a sore need at Davidson, and the encouraging prospects for its taking form will be hailed alike by students and faculty.

Dr. Nisbet Urges Higher Ideals for College Students

“Let us lift up our eyes unto the high places where we may behold God and the other worth-while things of life, and thus get out of the low grovelling level of the average man,” exhorted Dr. C. R. Nisbet, pastor of the Caldwell Memorial Church of Charlotte. The speaker went on to show how the “high places” of Sinai, Golgotha, Hermon, and Olivet, furnished the setting for events fundamental to the building of Christian character. “I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills whence cometh my help,” a part of the first verse of the 121st Psalm, served as the central theme of the address. This was written by the Psalmist in commemoration of the (Continued on page 8)

GLEE CLUB SECOND

In the first Intercollegiate Glee Club contest conducted, Monday night, December 12th, by the North Carolina Association of Glee Clubs, Duke University won, defeating Davidson by six-tenths of a point. Guilford and State Colleges were the other entrants to the contest, which was held in Durham, at the Duke auditorium.

Forensic Council and Faculty Committee Choose Teams for 1928 Debating Season

Ten Men Win Places on Five Teams

SEVEN JUNIORS PLACE

Powell and Dillard on Southern Team—W. K. Pritchett and Grady on Northern

Monday afternoon the Forensic Council and the Faculty Committee on Debates, in a joint meeting, selected five teams from the squad of 15 men which had been chosen on the previous Monday. The schedule as published December 1st has been altered somewhat in regard to dates.

The Southern team is to consist of Henry T. Powell and A. McGuire with Dillard, with W. B. as alternate. This team will debate the University of Florida, at Gainesville, Fla., on March 13th. From there they go to Sewanee, Tenn., where they meet the University of the South, on March 15th. Emory University, at Atlanta, on March 16th, will be their last engagement. The team chosen to make the Northern trip consists of W. K. Pritchett and Robert C. Grady, F. DeWolfe Miller acting as alternate. The first engagement this team has is with Hampden-Sidney College, at Hampden-Sidney, Va., on March 13th. George Washington University, at Washington, D. C., on March 14th, is the next on their schedule. They will meet the University of Pittsburgh, at Pittsburgh, on March 15th. Three schools will delegate men to Davidson to meet teams on the home ground. The University of Florida will meet Bob Kell and L. K. Pritchett, with E. Riggs McConnell as alternate, on March 8th. A team composed of Frank Hall and C. R. Pritchett, with Reid Graham as alternate, (Continued on page 8)

Nineteen Football Men Obtain Varsity Letters

Lafferty and Nunan Awarded Cross-Country Monograms

After a rather inauspicious season on the gridiron, the Athletic Council met recently, awarding letters to those men who have played in the required number of games. Winners of the varsity “D” numbered 19 in the aggregate. A comparatively new custom has been adopted in awarding the letter to some of the men not actually played in enough games to win the letter. But inasmuch as the coaches judge that these men have shown as admirable a spirit on the field as those who have won the letters, they are awarded the varsity monogram after three years of service on the field and punctuality in their work. There were 15 men who participated in enough games to win the letter; there were three service letters, and a letter given to the manager. A significant feature of the awarding of the letters is the fact that there were only four men in the backfield that played the required time, these being Captain Grey, Harrison, Nisbet, and Wilson. The first three named are Seniors, and as they go there goes a fast trio of backfield men. Winners of the varsity letter in football were: Captain W. R. Grey, Jr., and Riggs McConnell, of Davidson; W. O. Nisbet, F. S. Wearn, and R. E. Wilson, of Charlotte; H. M. Arrowood, Shelby, N. C.; H. L. Laws, Columbus, Miss.; J. W. Melton and T. E. McGeachy, of Decatur, Ga.; Nat Hunt, Lexington, N. C.; E. R. McConnell, Cornelius, N. C.; W. L. McColgan, Norton, Va.; A. W. Baker, Stony Point, N. C.; D. R. McEachern, Wilmington, N. C.; J. Grey, Hendersonville, N. C.; P. R. Maulden, (Continued on page 8)