THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1927

PLAYING THE GAME

With Withers Brilliant Game Year’s High Spot Garrison and Hill Sandlot Game Cinder Path Stars

Ring down the curtain so far as Davidson is concerned in the basketball line. Captain Anderson and his cohorts last
Saturday night literally ran the Blue Devils of Duke back into their lair. Undoubtedly the last game was the best
of the entire season. It was fast, snappy, brilliant, and exciting to the point that the crowded gymnasium was ringing
from whistle to gun with cheer after cheer given in praise of some feat of a Dukeman or a Wildcat.

For five minutes the two teams battled up and down the floor. Shortly after the opening whistle, Harrison dropped a
long shot. Duke partially retaliated by tossing a foul through the basket. Then, Harrison and Harrison again and Davidson had
a five-point lead at the end of the first few minutes of play. The Cats were never headed in the
game. Perhaps the most outstanding player of the fast contest was Anderson, who garnered some 19 counters, passed well, and
guarded superbly. Next honors go to a slightly built tow-headed Duke forward—Bennet. Playing his last game in a Davidson uniform—as
was Anderson—Simpson is next in line for mention. In fact, every man who saw service in the bout displayed uncanny
knowledge of the fine points of the game and did everything possible to end the season gloriously for Davidson.

The game was really a Junior-Senior affair. In addition to the two mentioned above as Seniors, Hudgins was thrown into
the fray twice and gave a good account of himself. Then there were four Juniors—Wilson, Harrison, and Calhoun, who started
the contest, and McColgan, who was interjected during the closing minutes of play.

Wildkitten Five Wins From Catawba College in Last Game of Year

Playing their last game of the season, the Wildkitten quintet on Monday night here emerged with a 34 to 30
score from a close contest with the Catawba College team, the latter coached by Flake Laird, former Davidson athlete. The
game was a nip and tuck affair throughout, one team knotting the score as soon as the other could make
a goal. Such last continued until the half when the pistol shot on an 18 to 17 lead for the
home team. The second half began with the Wildkittens pulling away from the visitors, although in the few minutes of
play the Catawbites threw a scare into the crowd of Davidson supporters by climbing to the 30 point stage, within
four points of Davidson's winning 34. Close guarding featured the game. Captain Pritchett, of Davidson, was high scorer for the
evening with 13 points, followed by Captain E. Peeler, of Catawba, with 10 points. The all-round playing of the latter
was especially outstanding as was the quick floor work and dribbling of the former. The Catawba players were ably supported
by a good-sized crowd of rooters, the fervent yells and cheers of the female contingent of the college evincing especial
comment. Davidson rooters, although outnumbering the visitors, were set a stiff pace to follow which they admirably did, staying behind
their team while singing songs of praise.

Duke Grapplers Down Davidson Wrestlers in Exciting Match, 15-6

The Duke grapplers overcame the Davidson wrestling team in a for-the-most-part listless match, although from time to time there were
points of high interest. None of the matches were decided by falls, but as Duke seemed more capable of gaining
time advantages, the result was a 15 to 6 defeat for Davidson. The most interesting matches were those of Jeff
Garrison and Tom Hill, each of whom showed real grit and fight against men of greater weight. Garrison wrestled Jones,
of Duke, who outweighed him 27 pounds. Several times it seemed as if Jeff had Jones’ shoulders pinned, but the
referee thought otherwise. Although this is Tom Hill’s first year on the team, he showed the skill of a veteran
when he kept Culp from gaining a fall, in spite of the fact that the latter outweighed him 35 pounds.
Captain Frierson was not up to his usual form and his match with Applewhite was a draw. Flythe decisively won
from Lemmond with a time advantage of seven minutes and 30 seconds. David wrestled Coltrane to a draw after an
extra period. Crinkley and Estridge lost by small time advantages. The summary follows:

118 pound class—Frierson, Davidson, and Applewhite, Duke, wrestled to a draw.

While singing songs of praise it would be unnatural to stop here. To Garrison and to Hill, Wildcat grapplers, much
must be given. These two men in the match with Duke wrestlers Saturday put up as game a fight as
ever seen on the local mat. Garrison was wrestling out of his class—matched against a man who was some 27
pounds heavier, and he came within an ace of throwing him too. And Hill. This 165-pound Sophomore took on a
200-pounder and, although he didn’t win the match, held his opponent to a time decision. Had these men been in
their class it seems that surely they would have eked out a fall over the strong Devils of Duke. Honor
to whom honor is due, eh?

Rapid progress has been made within the week by Coach Mattox and his devotees of the sandlot pastime. Despite the
fact that Captain Woodham has not been in condition to work regularly and that several men who are likely candidates
are on the basketball and football squads, the nucleus of the team is making its appearance. With Dulin on the
hot corner, Littlejohn at shortstop, and Glenn at the keystone sack, prospects are extremely bright for a good infield. The
same might be...said in regard to the outer garden. Davis, Johnson, Ratchford, and Murry are vying with each other to
see who can earn a berth first. Meadows, who has been issued a uniform, Oden, and Gant, are the more
promising hurlers besides Wells. Captain Goodykoontz, of the track team, has announced that the track letter men will sponsor an
inter-class track meet sometime in the near future. This meet is being held with the hopes of developing and bringing
out some undiscovered trackmen. Further announcements concerning this meet are elsewhere in this issue.

Cop on shore—“I’m going to arrest you when you come on shore.”
Man in water—“Aha, I’m not coming out. I’m committing suicide.”

CATARRH of nose or throat is made more endurable, sometimes greatly benefited by applying Vicks up nostrils. Also melt some
and inhale the vapors.

The line-up and individual scoring of each team follows:

Davidson (34) Position Catawba (30)
Wolnuettorn (7) Peeler, S. (9) RF Pritchett (c) (13)
Peeler, E. (c) (10) LF Smith (8)
Kennerly (3) Center Baker (0)
Safrit (4) RG Weiker (0)
Subs: Moore and McGavock. Subs: Corriker, Fletcher, and Overton.
Referee: Hengeveld (Davidson).

Scotland, Ho!
Two Scotchmen planned to go on a trip which necessitated their rising at an early hour in the morning. Suddenly
it was discovered that only one of them had an alarm clock. “I'll let my clock wake me,” said Sandy,
“and then I'll go to the public telephone and call you to be sure you are awake. But don’t answer
the phone, I want my nickel back.”

Short Play in Four Scenes
Scene 1—Barber shave.
Scene 2—Man sneeze.
Scene 3—Man dead.
Scene 4—Next please.

128 pound class—Flythe, Davidson, defeated Lemmond, Duke, decision, time advantage 7:34.
138 pound class—Davis, Davidson, and Coltran, Duke, wrestled to a draw.
148 pound class—Elmore, Duke, defeated Estridge, Davidson, decision; time advantage, 2:57.
158 pound class—McIntosh, Duke, defeated Crinkley, Davidson, decision; time advantage, 3:22.
175 pound class—Jones, Duke, defeated (Continued on page 5)

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

MR. GEORGE BRYAN (Davidson 1875-76)
Member of the Board of Trustees and Attorney

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.

Sheaffer Pens and Pencils

Reds Win Over Blacks in First Practice Go of Spring Season, 7-0
Dick Grey Makes All Counters for His Team—James Shows up Well

Dick Grey, captain of the Reds, led his team to victory over the Blacks last Friday afternoon, in the first
game of the spring practice season. The final score was 7 to 0 in favor of the Reds, Dick Grey
making all the points of the game. The score came when Grey crossed the Black goal line on a line
buck, and then kicked goal.

Freshmen Lose to Yearling Techmen
The Freshman basketball team was no match for the fast and accurate passing State College Freshman team and lost to
them by a score of 33 to 23 on last Wednesday night. The State Freshmen got away with a brilliant
lead and held it throughout the first half which later proved to be their winning factor. Davidson failed to show
the power to stop the drive and trailed far behind until the halfway mark. With the beginning of the second
half, the Wildkittens came from behind and displayed real form but their drive came too late. The State Fresh had
piled up such a big lead in the first half that the Wildkittens were unable to catch up, although they
scored 17 points to the 11 of the State team and the game ended 33 to 23 in State’s favor.
This was the second victory for the State team, they having defeated the Wildkittens on their recent state tour. Leeker
with 18 points and Johnson with 7 points were high-scorers for the visitors. Pritchett led the Davidson team with 12
points.

The two teams are the outcome of a system started last year in which the men who are out for
spring practice are divided into two teams, the Red and the Blacks. The line-up was as follows:

State (33) Position Davidson (23)
Johnson (c) (7) Johnson (3) RF
Hoar (6) Pritchett (12) LF

In the game Friday the ball see-sawed up and down the field first in the possession of the Red team
and then in the possession of the Blacks. Several men showed up exceptionally well in the game on Friday. Some
of these are Baker and James for the Blacks, and Grey and Wearn for the Reds. Coaches Monk and Tex
have planned several games between the two teams, the next one to be played on Saturday, March 8th. The line-up
is as follows:

Blacks Position Reds
Atwood Wearn End
McGeachy Ormsby End
Stallings Hampton Tackle
Baker McConnell Tackle
Hilliard Grey, J. Guard
Laws Johnson Guard

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

WHEN IN STATESVILLE CALL ON US FOR YOUR BARBER SHOP WANTS
Commercial Barber Shop
Statesville, N. C.

Everything a good Drug Store can supply
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

HOW’S YOUR SPRING CLOTHES LINE?
This Question is Daily Asked Us
We merely answer it by letting our Clothes speak for themselves. Really some are almost prominent enough to talk. They
have the snap and are automatically styled to meet the college man’s cry for something different.
Now Featuring Styleplus Suits at $25, $29.50 and $35
Incidentally some have two pairs of Trousers
BELK BROTHERS CO.
AT CHARLOTTE, N. C.
