THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 1, 1927

DAVIDSON STUDENTS DO NOT SELECT FATHERS’ VOCATIONS

“Like father, like son” may be a true adage in most instances, but it is without verity when applied to Davidson College students, at least insofar as professions of students and parents are concerned. Statistics recently compiled by Fred W. Hengeveld, registrar, show that only a very small proportion of the students enrolled at Davidson College intend to follow the vocations of their fathers, while the great majority appear averse to choosing the same field as that chosen by their parents. There is no explanation for this rather unusual situation contained in the bulletin issued by Mr. Hengeveld.

It is known, however, that in a number of instances, for example, the son of a lawyer will choose medicine, teaching, or the ministry for his profession; while the doctor’s son will choose business, or engineering, or accounting. This is not always the case, records showing that in some instances the son selects the same vocation as his parent. This is more often the case in business, where a student chooses to prepare for the same enterprise as his father.

Authorities on eugenics may be able to explain why there are 106 students preparing themselves for medicine at Davidson, when there are only 32 parents in this particular field; why 81 undergraduates will follow the Ministry, when there are only 60 fathers in this profession; why there are 51 pre-legal students and only 20 lawyer parents; why 24 Davidson boys are ambitious to be engineers when only four parents are following this occupation. Other comparisons of this nature might include: Ninety-nine students preparing themselves for business as compared with 187 parents already in that field; nine medical missionaries as compared with two parents already following that profession; seven embryo journalists as compared with three parents who are members of the “fourth estate;” and only four students interested in farming although there are 73 sons of farmers in college.

As far as records are available, there appears to be no sons of chemists at Davidson, yet there are nine students in the college who hope some day to make their mark in chemical research. There is not a single accountant among the listed parents of Davidson students, and yet eight of the undergraduates will enter this field of endeavor.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

FELLOWS! You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING Charlotte, N.C.

Rifle Team Matched Against Mooresville

Of the four shoots between the Davidson and Mooresville Rifle Teams, three have been held, the third being encountered on last Tuesday night. So far, Freize, of the Mooresville team, holds the honor of being the high scorer. He scored 188 points out of a possible 200 from four different positions: prone, sitting, kneeling, and standing.

The members of the Rifle Team are training vigorously for the final shoot to be held on next Tuesday night, at which time the Davidson Team hopes to surpass the record made by Freize at the last shoot. This is merely a preliminary match with Mooresville, held as an open-season practice match. On December 5, a rifle match will be open to all the members of the R. O. T. C. battalion, Davidson. A trophy will be awarded by the Scabbard and Blade Fraternity. All the members of R. O. T. C. are eligible to compete in the match.endeavor. One hundred and nine students failed to state the professions of their fathers, and one hundred and seventy-five failed to express any preference of vocation for themselves. It is generally believed that the majority of the latter group will eventually drift into business.

To Help Mountain Boys Educate

Students Will Receive Plumtree Boys' School Scholarships

As was recently announced, the money donated during this year’s mission campaign conducted by the local Y. M. C. A. will be given to the home mission institutions at Banner Elk, N. C. This sum, which has amounted to about $1,000 during the past years, will be used to give scholarships to the boys at the Plumtree Boys’ School. Some of the more fortunate boys, it is said, have been able to raise enough money to defray expenses at the school, but there are others who have not been able to do this. The cost for one year at this institution is $150, and the “Y” will give to whatever boys may need help the sum of $50 in order that they may get the opportunity of an education. The $1,000 will, in this way, enable about 20 boys, who, without help, would not be able to go to school, to get an education. The Plumtree institution already has a very efficient and capable force of teachers and a well-equipped plant, so that all funds will be used for scholarships and none will go for equipment. The mission campaign, as announced by “Y” officials, will in all probability get under way next week.

REPORTERS SELECTED

(Continued from page 1)

It is the only one of its kind that is known to exist anywhere in the United States. An association of this sort, it is said, will greatly facilitate news-gathering, but the greatest benefit from it will come in the form of the influence that the best thoughts and ideas from one college will have on the campuses of the others in the state.

Deputation Tells of Need in Orient

A deputation, composed of John Bradley, John Preston, and Glenn Fry, was sent to Blacksburg, S. C., last Sunday by the Volunteer Group. Their first meeting was held at the Ramah Church during the regular morning service. Talks were made on the history, the past conditions, and the present needs of various countries in the Orient. John Bradley talked about the conditions in China; John Preston spoke about those in Korea, and Glenn Fry told about Japan. As Bradley has lived in China and Preston in Korea, they were able to tell of conditions as they had seen them. At six o'clock in the evening, they held a similar service at the meeting of the Blacksburg Christian Endeavor. They also held services at the mill mission chapel a little later.

NINE DEBATES

(Continued from page one)

March 16th, Emory University, at Atlanta, Georgia.
March 13th, Hampden-Sidney, at Hampden-Sidney, Va.
March 14th, George Washington, at Washington, D. C.
March 15th, University of Pittsburgh, at Pittsburgh, Pa.
April 8th, University of Florida, at Davidson.
April 10th, William and Mary College, at Davidson.
April 12th, Rutgers College, at Davidson.

“She was only a mortician’s daughter, but she would undertake most anything.”

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY AND TUESDAY
Marion Davies in “Quality Street”

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
Clara Bow in “Get Your Man”

FRIDAY
Dorothy Mackaill and Jack Mulhall in “Man Crazy”

SATURDAY
Ben Thompson in “Jesse James,” a Western on the order of “The Covered Wagon”

Chesterfield smokers don’t change much... but watch how other smokers are changing to Chesterfield!

FOR THE BEST OF GOOD REASONS
BETTER TASTE!