4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 8, 1927

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN ............ Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD .......... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
N. BROWN ................ Managing Editor
PRITCHETT ............... Managing Editor
MORIARITY ............... Managing Editor
LAKE ..................... Athletic Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY ......... Assistant Business Manager
S. ....................... Assistant Business Manager
......................... Assistant Business Manager
......................... Subscription Manager
B. OW. DICKSON .......... Circulation Manager
G. W. MORRIS ............ Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE ........... Solicitor
B. MEGA .................. Solicitor

Reporters’ Club
W. H. BAILEY ............. President
......................... Vice-President
SEYMOUR GRAHAM ........ Secretary-Treasurer
P. ANDERSON
R. V.
W. H. BEST
W. B.
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D.
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A.
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. PRATT
R. F. JARRATT
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LONG
W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

THE BANNERS ELK DRIVE

A very worthy project will be presented to the Davidson College student body the latter part of this week in the drive for funds for scholarships at the Lees-McRae Institute at Banners Elk, N. C. This institution is located in the heart of the mountains of northwestern North Carolina, its students are boys and girls from the country surrounding the school, and its teachers are extremely capable men and women. Although there is a hospital, a girls’ school, a boys’ school, and an orphanage in the plant, the money given by the Davidson students will be devoted to scholarships for worthy students in the boys’ department.

It is the plan of the “Y” cabinet to get at least as much in this drive as was donated to Warren Cox the years he was being supported by the Davidson student body when he was in China. If this amount is pledged, it will mean that at least twenty mountain boys can afford to attend this school. Each boy will be given so much of his tuition by the Davidson scholarships, the rest of this he will earn himself during the school year. None of the money donated will be used for the upkeep of the grounds, or as an endowment for new buildings or any help along this line. Banners Elk has an excellent plant at present. Their greatest need is to provide help for the students in order that they may attend school there.

A group of Davidson men were sent to inspect the school before it was decided to help its students with scholarships. These men were deeply impressed with the magnitude of the work being accomplished in this plant, the wonders that it will work in the future, and the excellent buildings with which the school is provided. The boys’ building is at present only a temporary one, since this is the first year that the boys’ department has been functioning there. The girls’ dormitory, the administration building, the hospital building, the dining hall, and the institute church are all permanent buildings constructed of mountain stones. The orphanage is also a permanent building. Plans are being formulated for the immediate construction of a permanent building for the boys’ dormitory and this should be completed within the next year or so.

At present there are only forty boys approximately who are attending the institute. Since this is the first year, however, at the new location, this is considered an excellent showing. With the aid of the Davidson scholarships, twenty or more will be added to this list along with the increased enrollment from students aided in other ways.

It is difficult to realize the vast possibilities of such a work as this without actually seeing it. It is an opportunity for the students to accomplish real good by contributing to this cause. There should not be a single student who will refuse to give something to this cause.

CHRISTMAS SEALS

Within the next few weeks preceding Christmas, an organized drive is being conducted over the country to sell Christmas seals. Proceeds from the sale of these seals will be devoted to an attempt to stamp out tuberculosis in the United States. Some of the proceeds will be used in sending out literature all over the country encouraging sane observance of natural health laws. It is quite evident to all who have ever heard of the Christmas seals sale that it is an excellent opportunity to help a great cause, even though it be in a small way. These seals have been sold for a number of years and striking results have been evidenced in the forwarding of this project.

It should be realized, however, that this sale is not confined to any one locality, but an organization efficiently organized is spread all over the country in an effort to forward this movement. The funds are controlled by a national office and the sale of the little seals is controlled through them. In this regard, it might be well to mention that their work in attempting to stamp out this dreaded disease is also spread out over the entire country. If one were considering the movement from a selfish viewpoint, he would readily see that he would be benefited materially from his investment by being assured that the national association is doing all that it can to eradicate this scourge in every state.

The price of these seals is rather conservative, particularly in proportion to the work that is accomplished by them, and it seems unnecessary almost to bring the matter before the public. It is merely in the nature of a reminder to those few who might forget that these seals are now on sale. A few cents or a few dollars contributed to this undertaking will be used to greatest advantage and no one need fear that his money will be wasted. A worthy project such as this needs the cooperation of all men on the campus and it is hoped that everyone will donate his bit to this work.

Open Forum

The Open Forum department is always open for student discussion expressing opinions on any subjects. All articles must be signed and in the hands of the Editor by 7:30 Monday night.

Winter is here again, and with it the revival of the manly and heroic sport of snowballing freshmen. That element of the student body who can find no interest in the intellectual lines of collegiate activity have taken up this daring sport with great enthusiasm, and once more throughout the hours of a recent Sabbath afternoon the buildings of this Christian institution have reverberated with the scarcely religious howl of “Fresh out!” Once moreThe Sabbath quiet has been outraged by poundings on locked doors and streams of profanity directed at the hapless freshmen behind them. The purpose of this article is not to condemn the practice of this perfectly natural act too hastily or to berate those engaged in it. But, as we like to style ourselves men and gentlemen, it seems wise to question practices such as this which we hold in common with every prep school, and to consider seriously whether they are worthy to characterize Davidson men. In the first place, is it manly to attack any men who are forbidden to defend themselves, even if they are freshmen? It seems rather like the so-called “sportsmen” who derived their sport from shooting captive game which was liberated just in front of the gun. It is neither sporting nor gentlemanly to engage in a contest giving your opponent no chance at all. No one but a coward and a cad would be guilty of such an act thoughtfully. Obviously then, the practice of snowballing freshmen as it is practiced at Davidson is due to thoughtlessness. But thoughtlessness gives the impression at least of undeveloped mentality and lack of consideration for others, which are distinctly unmanly traits. Is it the desire of the Davidson student body that such should be the impression made on impartial observers through any avoidable lack of thought on our part? Several outsiders have described us in no uncertain terms as “prep schoolboys,” “infants,” and “morons.” Shall we not do away with that impression by stopping a custom that is undoubtedly cowardly, ungentlemanly, and totally unworthy of Davidson men and well-bred gentlemen?

Reproduced by courtesy of THE NEW YORKER

The Smith Brothers start out for vengeance

Collegiate Comment

The Beta Sigma Alpha fraternity at Mercer University is now a national organization. The purpose of this fraternity is to develop Boy Scouts and aid in scout work as much as possible. A prospective member must have been a first-class scout affiliated with some troop before he is eligible for membership into the fraternity. Plans are now under way to establish chapters at several other nearby colleges.

The new athletic field at Roanoke College is rapidly nearing completion. Work on this field was begun last August and the field will be completed within the next few weeks. The construction of the field was made possible by gifts from various alumni.

The grain judging team from N. C. State College won first honors at the International Livestock and Grain Exposition held recently in Chicago.

Georgia Tech won the S. I. C. championship last Saturday by defeating the University of Georgia 12 to 0. The S. I. A. A. championship is still rather undecided, several teams unable to meet each other during the season. Centenary and Chattanooga are the main contenders for the title.

A horseshoe pitching contest and tournament was recently held at N. C. State. Much interest in the game is also being evidenced at the University of Alabama.

W. J. Bailey, of Clinton, S. C., recently gave $10,000 to Presbyterian College to be used in improving the athletic field and facilities of the college, provided that an additional fund of $15,000 more can be raised.

Interest in inter-collegiate hockey among the girls’ schools of the south is growing rapidly. Sweet Briar College recently defeated the Westhampton team from the University of Richmond 4 to 1. The co-ed team from William and Mary left last week for a week’s trip playing four games while on the road.

The following interesting editorial appeared recently in the Harvard Crimson: “Yale wants a bulldog; Columbia wants a stadium; Princeton cries for the municipal vote; Cornell would like to see prohibition enforced; Michigan objects to the auto-ban; Dartmouth advocates acceptance of the Hopkins proposal; Washington seeks its stolen siren and pleads for a continuance of the pajama parade custom; Amherst wants Saturday night dates with Smith; Smith argues for automobile riding after dark; Vassar maintains the cause of smoking for women.”

Few are the colleges of today whose student newspapers are not stands of liberty and advance agents for the millennium. Unsolicited criticism is being done. Whereas the organs of undergraduate opinion were once merely antiphonal choruses of faculty sentiments, they are now upholders of various degrees of insurgency. Give a student editor an idea, an object which he may view with alarm and a typewriter, and within a week he will have raised the foundations of his college and made the Associated Press and The New Student in addition. The undergraduate press room has seen and is seeing red. Wisconsin wants a completed Union; Oregon wants the freedom of speech; Syracuse demands that the Syracuse type be defined now and forever; Illinois wanted to beat Iowa; Purdue wants a band like Indiana’s and Indiana wants a football team like Purdue’s.

The annual convention of the Southern Federation of College Students will be held at the University of Alabama in April, 1928. This convention was held last year at the University of Kentucky.

Carson-Newman was elected to membership in the Southern Federation of Colleges at the convention held recently in Jacksonville, Fla. This means that Carson-Newman is now rated as an accredited college of A classification.

In a news story appearing in the V. P. I. weekly a detailed account of a literary society meeting was given. In this account the following statement was made: “Professor Bray brought out some very interesting points on Free Love which proved to be very interesting to everyone present.”

Harvard University has definitely entered the field of visual education by making a contract with Pathe Exchange of New York. The cinema concern will select from its film library a series of shots illustrating the subject of Anthropology. The second branch of science to be aided by these films will be Geology. Films will be selected by a group of professors from Harvard.

The following rather startling headline appeared in Ohio State daily: “Co-ed to Replace Cow as Ohio State Beauty.”

With the aid of the General Electric and Westinghouse corporations, Cornell University will have a broadcasting station in 1928.

Miss Margaret Long, an assistant in the executive offices of Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, has in her possession a dress worn at a ball given to General Lafayette in Philadelphia in 1784.

Only seventeen letters were awarded to members of the football squad of Roanoke College this year.

A Mustache Club has been founded at Mercer University. Reports have it that general sentiment on the campus is heartily opposed to such an organization.

At the University of Kentucky for the past semester the scholarship average of fraternity men was higher than the general average of the entire student body.

Since the McCormick cotton picker was placed on the market a month ago a new picker has come into being. The machine works like a vacuum cleaner and with it one man can pick a bale a day. Negro cotton pickers will look upon it with disfavor.