The Davidsonian

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 20, 1927

Economic Subjects are Treated by Professors as Works are Published

Doctors Hood and Brown Complete Work on Books

GAIN RECOGNITION

Subjects Deal With Insurance Business and Development of North Carolina Railways

Again members of the Davidson faculty have published books. Dr. Frazer Hood's “Every Man’s Insurance” and Dr. C. K. Brown's “State Movement in Railroad Development” are the latest works completed by Davidson men. Both these books are on economic questions. Dr. Hood's “Every Man’s Insurance” has been off the press for some time, while Dr. Brown's work is expected off the press during the middle of December.

As has been pointed out before, Davidson College professors have not been entirely inactive in the field of authorship. This statement is borne up by the recent publication of Dr. Shewmake’s textbook, “College English Composition” and Dr. Vowles’ Scandinavian text. There is added to these, Dr. Hood's insurance work, sub-titled “Protection for the Family and Business,” which, although listed among the newer books, has been published long enough to attract nation-wide attention. Dr. Hood, realizing the need for a general knowledge of insurance, has brought forth a text that will meet the demands of the average American citizen. Monthly says: “The entire field of insurance is covered. Dr. Hood takes up first the social, economic, and mathematical significance of insurance. He then marks the field off into sections, treating successively the life, fire and marine, casualty, and miscellaneous forms. The explanation of the principle in- (Continued on page 8)

Southern Power Company The Credit

Calcutta Graduate Lectures on India

Completely winning the large audience assembled in Shearer Hall on Wednesday, October 12th, Mr. M. H. H. Joachim, lecturer and authority on India, spoke briefly on his country’s social, political and religious problems. Mr. Joachim was introduced by Doctor Vowles. Mr. Joachim, who is a native of Calcutta and a graduate of the famous University of Calcutta, combines in his personality the philosophical training of the East and the culture of the West. He has proved in the past few months that he has been a deep thinking student of his country and is peculiarly fit to present his subject to American audiences.

Introducing his speech with a few remarks on the nature of his country, Mr. Joachim described India as a continent more than a country. It is not a strange, romantic land, nor one to be studied through the channels of the imagination, nor even from the writings of Rudyard Kipling, but a huge continent supporting one-fifth of the world’s population. India is a land of infinite variety, a land of inconsistency. Nothing is characteristically Indian. Temperature ranges everywhere between the intense cold on the slopes of the Himalayas to the insufferable heat of the tropical villages. There are 72 languages and 1,200 dialects spoken within its boundaries, and more races are to be found there than in India.

Speaking of Indian civilization, Mr. Joachim said that just as Western nations consider civilization as a state of material and mechanical prosperity and development, Indian civilization was a philosophical and religious development, and such being the case, (Continued on page 8)

Wildcats Uncover Fast Plays and Defeat Elon in Thrilling Game, 27-0

Touchdown Scored in Each Period of Play Saturday

CAPTAIN GREY FEATURES

Zoe Walker Stars for Visitors as Elonites Battle Valiantly in Scoring Attempts

Captain “Dick” Grey and his red and black teammates ran roughshod over Elon Saturday afternoon on Richardson Field to ring up their fourth consecutive win of the season. Elon brought out trick play after trick play in an effort to cross the Davidson goal line, but all in vain. Grey and his ’Cats came out on the long end of a 27-0 score.

The Wildcats were playing for the first time this season on their own gridiron, and they showed the large crowd of enthusiastic supporters that they can still perform in championship style. Dick Grey led the Davidson attack, but was supported in ball-toting by Harrison, Nesbit, and Flynn. Davidson gained a total of 512 yards, 290 of which were clicked off by Dick himself. Of the four touchdowns made, Grey made two of them, and sent the pigskin sailing between the posts to account for two of the three extra points scored. The first touchdown came as a result of a 54-yard run made by Grey through the center of the Elon line. Harrison scored the second touchdown and circled the ends time after time for substantial gains. The third touchdown was made (Continued on page 6)

Attorney is Engaging Speaker at Vesper Service

Attorney Says to Apply Scientific Method to Religion

“Apply the scientific method to religion,” was the message which Judge J. H. Marion, attorney for the Southern Power Company, brought the Davidson student body and townspeople in Shearer Hall Sunday. Dr. J. L. Douglas, in introducing the speaker, said that he was a graduate of the University of South Carolina Academic and Law School and had risen to the position of judge after long service in his profession. He served as colonel in the Spanish-American war, and was elected to the Legislature shortly thereafter.

Judge Marion declared that it was an honor for him to speak to youth and that he would strive for the insight needed to reach their point of view. The heart of youth is still fundamentally the same as it was 30 years ago despite the revolutionary changes wrought by war and invention. The thoughts of youth are long thoughts, long with regard to God and often tempted to go astray. In this era of new thought some men find difficulty in deciding what place God and religion should have in their lives, and some never do face the issue squarely. In this greatest scientific age of history, subject religious matters also to the scientific method. First, collect as many facts on the subject as possible, then draw your conclusions. God will be found to be the only hypothesis that will solve the riddle of life. “More difficulty will be found in applying the other steps of the scientific method. Proceed by experimental verification to test the conclusions you have made.” “If ye will do (Continued on page 5)

College Masquers Conduct Try-Outs

Activities for the Red and Black Masquers got under way when 23 men reported for try-outs last Friday night in Shearer Hall. Under the supervision of Professor Erwin, sponsor of the organization, and Val Guthery, president, each of the men was given an opportunity to display his talent in the one-act play entitled “I Do.” Announcements have not been made by the directors, as yet, as to who were selected, but this is expected to be made public within the next few days, after each one who is trying-out has further demonstrated his ability as parts are taken in several selected one-act plays. The ones chosen will participate in the presentation of the three-act play which is to be given on the trip which is made annually by the club. The first appearance of the Red and Black Masquers will be the presenting of a one-act play on Stunt Night.

Professor Erwin desires that anyone else who is interested in dramatics, especially in writing plays, and also those who wish to affiliate themselves with the organization in the capacity of electrician, carpenter, or similar positions, get in touch with him or with Val Guthery at once. The active members of the Red and Black Masquers are: Guthery, president; A. T. Dillard, manager; John McNeely, Henry Powell, Herman Campbell, T. T. Jones, R. C. Platt, J. R. Covington, and Boyce Martin. Those who are trying-out are: J. S. McAllister, J. P. McKnight, J. S. Grey, J. C. Frye, C. C. Trabue, J. B. Johnson, L. A. (Continued on page 8)

Spirit of Mirth and Joy to Mark Home-Coming

Time for Renewing Friendships as Alumni Gather Here

Joy, mirth and a general revival of the spirit of good fellowship will reign supreme on the campus of Davidson College on October 29th, when hundreds of alumni will trek back once more for the annual Home-Coming Day exercises, according to arrangements made by an alumni committee lastWeek, the modern young graduate with his modern ideas and a gradually increasing realization of the ways of the world will take his place beside his wise brother of the old school with the same feeling of welcome and will stroll around the ancient trees telling old tales, meeting old friends, and marveling at the improvements which have taken place since their day here. Old jokes will be retold and newer experiences will be related to receptive ears which have all but become impregnable to doubtful stories. The program committee has arranged a very informal schedule which, it is believed, will be greatly enjoyable to the returning men because of its informality. The men will not be burdened about going first one place only to be rushed back to another function, but will have plenty of time to enjoy themselves without being bothered by duties. The students will also enjoy a red-letter day as classes will be suspended for the occasion and they will be at the top of their ability making the alumni more at home and helping to entertain them. Student activities will hold sway part of the day. After the alumni have gotten on the campus, reported to the office of the alumni secretary, and registered, they will be spectators at a drill and parade by the local R. O. T. C. unit which has won distinctive rating in the fourth corps area for the past two years and this is usually one of the best features of the early attractions. After the parade, the crowd will move to Five Seniors Receive Highest College Distinction as Phi Beta Kappa Elects Longer Period for Library Use Given One of the most enthusiastically received announcements of the year was that made by Dr. Frazer Hood, of the Faculty Library Committee, last Monday morning to the effect that two and one-half hours be added to the period in which the reference rooms of the library would remain open during the day. This forward step has been heartily received as a result of numerous requests by members of the student body that the rooms be made more accessible for reference work during the times at which they are free from classes. This plan, Dr. Hood advises, will continue in so far as the students avail themselves of the added opportunity for library work. The schedule of closing—1:40 p.m. instead of 12:00, and at 10:30 p.m. instead of 9:30 p.m., will be adhered to until the Christmas holidays, when it will be judged as to whether or not sufficient use is being made of the additional privilege. The administration is able to place this advantageous change before the students only through the expenditure of more money, and for this reason it is thought to be impractical to provide such as is not being taken advantage of. This forward step has been heartily received by many of the men who are unable, on account of morning classes or laboratory courses, to use the library, as they will now be able to make frequent and lengthy visits to the library. Many colleges and universities throughout the land are facing the same problem and are placing similar advantages in the path of the students. Recently at Princeton, the hours of closing the library were changed to midnight (Continued on page 3) Prominent Men Receive Rewards for Continuous Scholastic Efforts ALUMNI NAMES UNKNOWN Initiation Set for December 9 as Plans Are Made to Secure Distinguished Speaker Five men from among the student body received the highest honor that can be awarded in collegiate circles when they were extended bids, last Saturday, by Phi Beta Kappa, national scholarship society. The men so distinguished were: D. H. Howard, Lynchburg, Va.; H. B. Arbuckle, Jr., Davidson, N. C.; C. G. Davidson, Chester, S. C.; J. S. Grey, Richmond, Va.; and J. S. McAllister, Greensboro, N.C. The Davidson branch of this organization, which is North Carolina Gamma Chapter, also issued bids to alumni of Davidson, but officers refused to give the names of these graduates until acceptance had been signified. Although the speaker for the initiation ceremony has not been announced, preparations for this occasion are being made by a committee appointed by Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, president of the local chapter. Announcement has been made that the date of this initiation will be December 9th. Phi Beta Kappa stands foremost in the large group of honorary fraternities of the nation because of its recognition of excellence in the most important phase of college work—scholarship. It is the oldest organization of this kind in the United States, having been founded at William and Mary College in 1776. At present, 107 chapters compose its membership and are located in the leading colleges and universities of the nation. The five student members selected in this election are prominent men in the affairs of (Continued on page 8) Date of Carolina Game is Chosen for Holiday as Unanimous Vote is Taken Few Changes Mar Stunt Night Plans Following the custom which has been the order for years, Stunt Night will be held at the conclusion of an eventful Home-Coming Day during which the V. M. I.-Davidson football game will have been the feature performance of the day. The program which is now being arranged will be presented in Shearer Hall on the night of October 29th, at which time those who have the matter in charge state that a capacity house is expected just as in every previous year when the hall was taxed to its limits. The Glee Club, the Red and Black Masquers, the four classes, and several other student organizations are making unique and varied plans for an evening of mirth-provoking and hilarious entertainment. Committees have been appointed by the various classes and these are now making preparations on original stunts to be revealed at this time. The Glee Club will appear, presenting several numbers by the chorus, and the Jazz Orchestra is expected to entertain the audience with several numbers, decidedly not classical. Other members of the Glee Club will appear in features which are now being worked out. A short comedy skit will be presented for the approval of the student body by the Red and Black Masquers, dramatic organization of the campus, under the direction of Professor Erwin and Val Guthery, president. Features of the evening are always those acts devised by the four classes, which are kept secret until the time for presentation, and are the basis for many rumors and surmises as to their nature. (Continued on page 5) Executive Committee Also Curtails Classes for State Game Each year the faculty has granted a holiday to all students attending the football game played on one designated day. The student body decided that that day should be November 12th, the day Davidson plays Carolina at Chapel Hill. Arrangements have been made to run a special train to Chapel Hill for the game. All the students riding this train will be excused from classes, while those remaining on the hill, or not going to the game, will be required to meet classes as usual. The rate for the round trip will probably be a little in excess of five dollars. It is believed that the Band will make this trip with expenses paid. Plans are also being made by Spike McGee to get as many of the student body as possible to the other two games to be played off the campus, namely, the Wake Forest game, on October 22nd, and the State game, on November 5th, both to be played at Greensboro. Arrangements have been made to have buses on hand for the students who have no classes after 10:45 Saturday to go to the Wake Forest game. The round-trip fare will be three dollars and a half, a very economical price, being cheaper than a U-Push-’Em or train and much more convenient and certain than “bumming.” A large percent of the Band have volunteered to pay their own way to this game. McGee says this game is no cinch, and sends an earnest request that a great many of the students attend. A petition to the Executive Committee was filed by Spike McGee, acting in behalf of the students, requesting that classes be shortened (Continued on page 8)