Vol. XIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 12, 1927 No. 29

Five Davidson Delegates Attend North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

Chronicle, of Duke, Adjudged Best College Newspaper

HELD AT GREENSBORO

Harllee Branch Selected as Best Editorial Writer in North Carolina Collegiate Circles

On May 5, 6, and 7 the North Carolina College for Women, at Greensboro, was hostess to the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association in its thirteenth semi-annual convention. The sessions were marked by addresses, selections of best journalistic endeavors, and election of officers for the coming year. Significantly gratifying was the selection of Harlee Branch, Jr., retiring editor of The Davidsonian, as the best editorial writer in North Carolina collegiate circles. He was declared such by the editors of The Greensboro News, the selection being based on editorials submitted by North Carolina college editors.

On arrival Thursday noon the delegates lunched at N. C. College for Women and were banqueted that night at the O. Henry Hotel, the afternoon having been taken up with a tour of the city for the ninety odd delegates present, the Civitan Club being hosts for this latter occasion. The Friday sessions were given over entirely to business. In the afternoon Mayor Jeffries of Greensboro, who is connected with The Greensboro Daily, welcomed the delegates in the name of the city. Mr. Tom Bost, of The Raleigh News and Observer, also spoke to the delegation, delivering an able address anent the collegiate press. Throughout Friday, as the other two days of the conference, meetings of the Magazine, paper, and annual groups were held. Friday evening saw the delegates at the dance-pageant given by N. C. C. W., following the partaking of a delightful buffet.

Split Debate Held With Duke Orators

On last Tuesday night Henry Powell and L. K. Pritchett met the Duke debating team of S. G. Sparger and Richard C. Horne in an open forum style debate held in the Duke University Auditorium. The question at issue was: “Resolved: That the United States should adopt uniform marriage and divorce laws by national legislation.” Powell with Horne of Duke upheld the affirmative while Pritchett argued for the negative with Sparger of Duke. The count of the house on the merits of the question, after the debate was over and after an hour’s discussion of the question had been held by the audience, showed the house two to one in favor of the negative side. Mr. B. U. Ratchford, ’26, was timekeeper for the occasion. Each debater, following the Oxford plan, was limited to fifteen minutes speaking with no rebuttal, with the exception of Powell, first speaker of the evening for the affirmative, who was limited to twelve minutes with five minutes for rejoinder.

In his speech Powell showed that some change in regard to the legislation of marriage and divorce was necessary because of the diversity in law causing no law at all and because diversity of law made for disrespect of all law. Pritchett, speaking first for the negative, showed that such a uniform proposed law of the affirmative was unnecessary and impractical. He pointed out that the evils of the present are not as bad as his opponents had pointed out, and that they were existing perhaps in theory but not in actual practice. It was further conclusively (Continued on page 2)

Forensic Officials

Davidson College Tennis Team Back from Northern Invasion With Decisive Victories

Pennsylvania Gives Team Only Defeat of Year

McCUTCHEN STARS

Cornell, Colgate, and Bethlehem Overwhelmed by Davidson Tennis Team During Extensive Trip

Coach Tex Tilson has announced the men who will be recommended to the Athletic Council to receive the “D.C.” in track. The list of men follows, with the number of points each man has won in meets this year: Captain H. G. Goodykoontz, 24, Currie, 39, G. R. Sims, 15, J. C. Frye, 13, D. O. Leftwich, 19, D. M. Calhoun, 14 1-2, R. E. Kell, 10, J. W. Melton, 9, R. Bohannon, 5, Pinkney, 5, E. E. Brown, 16, M. C. O'Neal, 14, J. A. Treverton, Jr., 14, E. John, 12, and Manager J. A. King. Those who will be recommended for the “D.C.” are: E. L. Lafferty, J. S. Gardner, A. H. Whittle, W. R. Treverton, J. A. Womack, T. R. Nunan, H. S. Goodwin, W. G. McGavock, C. H. King, Jr., T. W. Brohard, Jr., and W. C. Kirkland. These men will be recommended for these awards because of the number of points won in meets and because of the hard work and faithful practice that they have put forth. The Council will meet in the near future and consider these men with those recommended by Coach Monk Younger for letters and monograms in baseball. The latter list has not been made public yet because of Coach Monk's being away from Davidson for the past few days. However, it is expected to be given out shortly after his return.

On the most extensive trip ever taken by the Wildcats, the team came out victorious over three large northern colleges and bowed in defeat to only one, the University of Pennsylvania. Outside of the Pennsylvania match no one man lost over one match, there being no weak man on the team. Fresh from winning the State Doubles Championship at Chapel Hill, the team first went to the University of Pennsylvania at Philadelphia. Here bad courts, wet from recent rains, hampered the play and was probably the cause of the poor showing of the Wildcat Netmen. They lost here by a score of 6 to 0. Going next to Cornell University at Ithaca, N.Y., Davidson downed the strong Cornell team to the tune of 5 to 1. The next team to be met and conquered was Colgate University, who only won one match to Davidson's five. Following these came Bethlehem Moravian College, who always puts out a strong team as this is the only inter-collegiate sport in which they participate, and was overwhelmed by the same score of 5 to 1. McCutcheon starred for the Wildcats, winning three matches handily and putting up a strong fight on his one defeat. All the men played well and gave a fine exhibition of sportsmanship on the trip.

In the first match at the University of Pennsylvania the Wildcats met up with their first and only defeat of the season. A soft (Continued on page 3)

Editor Announces

Currie, Davidson Track Artist, Shatters Two Records in State Cinder Carnival

Wildcat Relay Team Places First in Mile Relay

NEAR WORLD RECORD

University of North Carolina Wins as Twelve New Records Are Established at Greensboro

John Currie came well up to expectations of him last Saturday, and at the State Track Meet in Greensboro, ran the 100-yard dash in 9.6 seconds to set a new state record and to come within one-tenth of a second of the world’s record in the Century dash, now held by Charlie Paddock. Then, not stopping at that, he ran the 220-yard dash in 21.8 seconds for a new state record. The weather was fine, the track in good shape, and in all, twelve old state records were broken and new marks set.

The meet was won by the University of North Carolina with 71 1-2 points; Duke was second with 49 1-2 points; North Carolina State third with 38 1-2; Wake Forest fourth with 16 1-2; Lenoir-Rhyne fifth with 14; Davidson sixth with 13 1-2; Guilford seventh with 5 1-2. Elon and High Point College failed to place. Daniels of Wake Forest was high scorer of the meet, piling up a total of 15 points. He took first in the 120-yard high and the 220-yard low hurdles, and set a new record for the running broad jump. Spurlock of North Carolina was second with 14 points, winning first in the javelin, second in the broad jump, and setting a new record in the shot put.

Another outstanding event of the day was the record-breaking vault by Brantley of Duke. He cleared the bar at 12 feet 2 inches,Outdistancing the former record by 10 inches, the mile relay, won by Currie, Goodykoontz, Melton, and Pinkney of Davidson, was beautifully run, with Pinkney coming in especially strong on the last lap. This was the first official relay record. McDowell of State won the high jump with a leap of 6 feet.

In the concluding business session on Saturday morning, the following students were named by Powell: Henry Powell, president of the Forensic Council, announced Monday that the officers of next year’s council would be, in addition to himself as president, Chalmers Davidson, Vice-President; Jeff Garrison, Treasurer; Bob Grady and Lawrence Dumas, Secretaries of Intercollegiate Debating; and Frank Hall and W. K. Pritchett, Secretaries of Society Debating. The president, vice-president, and treasurer were selected by the outgoing council, and the four secretaries were appointed by Henry Powell, the new president. The appointment of the secretaries was officially announced Monday the 9th. Of the seven officers, three have been on varsity debating teams: Powell, Grady, and Pritchett. Two have served as alternates: Davidson and Garrison. The complete debating schedule for the year 1927-28 has not yet been entirely filled out, but the present plans call for two distinct trips and several home debates. One trip will be made toward the north and one into the south. So far, a debate with George Washington University has been scheduled, and negotiations are ongoing with other northern universities. The southern trip will include meets with Emory University and the University of the South, also known as Sewanee, with prospects of another debate with some other southern colleges. Among the home debates, there will be meets with William and Mary, Rutgers University, and Duke University. Several other home debates are in the process of being arranged, and the Forensic Council is endeavoring to fill out a complete schedule of meets.

The Quips and Cranks is to be issued on or before May 21, according to Don Wharton, editor-in-chief. The annual is to be larger than all previous issues, being 300 pages or more. The 1925 annual contained 260 pages, and the 1926 issue contained 236 pages, so it is easily seen that the present annual will eclipse former issues. A unique feature of this year’s annual will be a forerunner, in the form of a four-page newspaper, explaining the new and unusual features contained in the annual. This is to be placed in the hands of the students as soon as it comes off the press. The work is being rushed in order to get the paper to the seniors who have been exempted from examinations and who expect to leave for home at the earliest possible time. All the students are looking forward with expectancy to the issuance of the annual. The fact that it is to be so radically new and better than former years is the reason for this. The 1927 staff has worked hard to put out a good annual, and under the able leadership of Wharton in the editorial department and Williams in the business department, they bid fair to publish the best annual in the history of Davidson. At any rate, it will be a distinct credit and asset to the college. This branch of the editorial staff has aided in spreading the fame of Davidson College, and each new development brings new advantages to the college. This has been one of the most successful years in college history, with state championships in football and tennis, as well as advances in forensic work, and it is sincerely hoped that the 1927 Quips and Cranks will add in a measure to the success of the year.

COMMENCEMENT PROGRAM
Sunday, May 29
11:00 A.M.—Baccalaureate Sermon, by Rev. J. L. McMillan, D.D., pastor First Presbyterian Church, Norfolk, Va.
8:00 P.M.—Annual Sermon to the Y.M.C.A., by Rev. Dwight Chalmers, pastor Church-by-the-Side-of-the-Road, Greensboro.

Monday, May 30
4:00 P.M.—Reception by Y.M.C.A. for graduates and their parents.
5:00 P.M.—Class Day Exercises: W. H. Branch, Jr., Class Orator; L. D. Wharton, Jr., Class Valedictorian; W. T. Covington, Jr., Class Salutatorian.

Tuesday, May 31
9:30 A.M.—Meeting of the Board of Trustees.
12:15 P.M.—Annual Literary Address, by Judge W. P. Stacey, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of North Carolina.
1:30 P.M.—General Luncheon and Meeting of the Alumni Association.
5:00 P.M.—Reception by the Faculty.
8:00 P.M.—Senior Oratorical Contest. Award of Trophies, Medals, and Diplomas. Exercises in Literary Society Halls.

Wednesday, May 30
10:00 A.M.—Award of College Medals. Addresses by Valedictorian and Salutatorian. Graduation Exercises.

Inspiring Mothers’ Day Program Led by Branch
Y.M.C.A. Holds Vesper Program in Honor of Mother

“Revere the memory of the mother of yesterday, love the mother of today, and safeguard the integrity of the mother of tomorrow” was the stirring appeal of Harllee Branch speaking before an overflowing crowd of students and townspeople in Shearer Hall Sunday evening. This service, held in honor of Mother, was very impressive. Mrs. W. J. Martin and Mrs. R. D. Dougherty, accompanied by Mrs. Mathis, sang a beautiful selection on mother’s devotion. Charles Barr added considerably to the attractiveness of the program with a violin solo. Bill Christian read the scripture from the second chapter of Exodus, after which C. R. Pritchett and P. J. Garrison led in prayer. The song service was in charge of Lin MacClair.

The speaker took his text from Exodus 2:9, describing the incident of Pharaoh’s daughter promising the mother of Moses wages for rearing him. This was the culmination of a mighty struggle between the forces of might and right. Pharaoh, with all the resources of a mighty empire behind him, was arrayed against a weak Hebrew mother. Yet this lone woman in her time of trial was not left defenseless, for God was on her side as He is ever on the side of mothers. He protected her and Miriam until He providentially led the Egyptian princess to adopt the child.