THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1927

REPORTERS CLUB SELECTS OFFICERS AND NEOPHYTES

At the last regular meeting of the Reporters’ Club, the following officers were elected to serve during the spring term: T. T. Jones, president; A. N. Brown, vice-president; and C. R. Lake, secretary and treasurer. At this meeting, new members were also selected from the Sophomore class, and their public initiation will take place at the basketball game and picture on the coming Saturday night. These men were selected for their merit and consistency in their work on The Davidsonian, which have been most commendable. The honored neophytes are: W. K. Pritchet, J. P. McBryde, R. C. Grady, J. R. Graham, and W. H. Bailey. Further business of the meeting was confined to the arrangement of the year’s program, and many features were discussed and added that will improve the character of the club and raise the standards to which the men must conform before they aspire to membership in the club. With this meeting begins a new life of the organization, each member keeping before him the part he must do to make The Davidsonian the best college paper in the state, or in the South.

Literary Societies

Pandemic

The regular meeting of the Pandemic Literary Society last Thursday evening consisted of the installation of the newly elected officers. Those elected to serve their society during the coming semester were: President, J. A. McAlpine; vice-president, J. R. Falls; secretary, John Bradley; first critic, L. M. McCutchen; second critic, H. B. Arbuckle, Jr.; and sergeant-at-arms, W. J. Beavers. After the inaugural address by the newly elected president, the entire society went to the hotel, where a banquet had been planned. New plans were made for the meetings during the spring, the chief one of which was the decision to have no more formal debates or declamations, but to have an open forum in which everyone may join in the discussions of the topics of interest. This plan is made according to that of the legislature, and it is believed that it will be much more interesting as well as much more helpful to all those who take part.

Eumenean

The subject for debate at the regular meeting of the Eumenean Society on Thursday was: “Resolved, That the United States’ involvement in Nicaragua is in accord with the Monroe Doctrine.” Moye and Fry upheld the affirmative of the proposition, being opposed by Kennedy and Alexander. After much good and soundly based argument on both sides, the decision was given to the affirmative contenders. After this, the regular election of officers was held. Those elected were: President, Clancy Williams; vice-president, Frank Daniel; secretary, Bob Kell; and reviewer, Christian. These officers will be installed next Thursday night when a banquet will be held at the hotel and new plans will be made for the coming term.

Philanthropic

The extemporaneous debate at the meeting of the Philanthropic Society last Thursday night was between Gilmore, on the affirmative, and Hamilton, on the negative, on the question: “Resolved, That the sale of firearms should be limited to officers of the law.” The decision was rendered in favor of the affirmative. The regular debate was on the question, “Resolved, That the policy of the United States toward Nicaragua is justifiable.” The affirmative was upheld by Ricks and Mauze; the negative by Haygood and Glenn. After much good argument, the decision was given to the negative by a vote of 2 to 1. It was decided that officers for the third term would be elected at the next meeting, at which time there will be a banquet at the hotel.

JUNIORS ANNOUNCE HOLIDAY FEATURES

(Continued from page 1)

The program for Tuesday has not been fully decided but will probably be in Davidson. The Junior Class is extremely anxious to have the entire student body as their guests this holiday season and are doing all in their power to make it as entertaining as possible to provide lodging for the guests. Associated on the Program Committee with Link are: Mutt Nesbit; Hugh Arrowood; Chalmers Carr; Brownie Bradford; Charles McCrae; and Jack Robinson.

Social News

Rev. Garth Speaker at Vespers Sunday Night

Speaker is Editor of Presbyterian Standard and Well-Known Business Man

Rev. J. G. Garth, news editor of the Presbyterian Standard, spoke to the students at “Y” Vespers Sunday evening, on the subject “Grit, Gumption and Grace.” Mr. Garth based his talk on a volume of poems which illustrated in a striking manner these three qualities. The Scripture lesson was taken from the story of Elijah and the false prophets. Mr. Garth used this story to illustrate the quality of grit. He stated that it took real grit for Elijah, alone, to stand up and defy the whole group of false prophets, and to prove that their god was false, and that Jehovah was, and is, the only true God. He also read one poem to illustrate this, and stated that it takes a real man to have a conviction and to stand by it through thick and thin, or, in other words, that “grit,” which is this power to have a conviction and to stick by it, is one of the essential ingredients in the make-up of a real man.

Mr. Garth then read several poems illustrating the quality of “gumption.” He said that grit and gumption are somewhat similar, but that, nevertheless, both are present in a real man. It takes gumption as well as grit to have, and to stand up for, convictions. Grace, said Mr. Garth, must be acquired from God. From Him we can obtain grace through prayer. If we pray to Him earnestly and faithfully, He will give us grace and will help us to acquire, or rather to develop, grit and gumption as well. He warned his audience against refusing to do anything simply because they can't do it exactly their own way. He illustrated this point with another very appropriate poem, the central thought of which might be summed up in the following lines quoted from the poem: “If you can't go over or under, go around.” He warned against stubbornness. Don't, he said, butt your head against a solid wall. If you find an obstruction in your way which you cannot move and cannot go through, then find some other way. Don't refuse to do anything simply because you can't do it exactly as you wish.

In conclusion, Mr. Garth read Kipling’s “If.” This poem might be called a short summing-up, a resume, of the qualities which make up a real man. In Mr. Kipling’s own words, if you can do anything that is mentioned in this poem, “You'll be a man, my son.” If you can keep your head when all about you are losing theirs, and blaming it on you, if you can dream, and not make dreams your master, if you can take gains and losses in the right spirit, if you can walk with crowds, and keep your virtue, if you can walk with kings, nor lose the common touch, if you can fill the unforgiving minute with sixty seconds worth of distance run, yours is the earth and everything that’s in it, says Kipling, and, what’s more, you'll be a man.

DAVIDSON GLEE CLUB

(Continued from page 1)

“Consolation” and “Take That Rose,” the two numbers that featured Wilson’s solo work, brought demands for more, with the result that Wilson was called back for further solo work in the concluding chorus of the concert. Mobley, Wilson’s accompanist, was responsible to no small degree for the fine effect of the two numbers. The Jazz Orchestra, offering the latest novelties in syncopated rhythm, proved a popular number on the program. The addition of new talent to the orchestra has resulted in a well-rounded organization, capable of superior work. Owen Geir, trumpeter extraordinary; Gordon McSwain, of trombone fame; and Charlie Albright, banjoist and director, are the stars of the band. The Symphony orchestra, the chorus, and R. S. Lowrance, another soloist, allContributed their share to the success of the concert. An impromptu skit, featuring Fats Laws and Bud Guthrie in an apache dance, was placed as an interlude to the entertaining program. Side-splitting laughter greeted the slap-stick dancers as they stepped onto the stage. Uncontrollable mirth prevailed throughout their act, finally subsiding after the two comedians had disappeared behind the curtains after a final curtain call.

Eight social fraternities started the new school term off with house parties over the weekend of February 5-7. The gym had a record crowd, if not the largest of the year, certainly one of the very large ones, Saturday night at the picture show. After the show, many groups might have been seen out studying the stars. Astronomy is indeed a great and fascinating science if studied under the best conditions. An unusual number of false fire alarms were turned in, but so far the authors of these alarms have not been discovered. It seemed that Davidson too was having a “Big Parade.” Cars were driven listlessly here and there and seemed to be directing their own sweet way.

The fraternities who had house parties over the weekend and their fair guests are as follows:

Beta Theta Pi—Miss Rachel Highsmith, Miss Punky Salder, of Anderson, S.C.; Miss Mary Helen Dawson, of Chicora College; Miss Lib Simpson, of Converse College; Miss Winnie Pegram, of N.C.; Miss Ruth Chaplin, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Margaret Hood, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Winifred Craven, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Frances Johnson, of Gastonia, N.C.; Miss Betty Dunlap, of Rock Hill, S.C.; Miss Phyllis Albright, of Raleigh, N.C.

Kappa Alpha—Miss Hall, of Converse College; Miss Rebe Jones, of Converse College; Miss Lib Anderson, of Converse College; Miss Hatch, of Converse College; Miss Lillian Johnson, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Ann Whisnant, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Sallie Linister, of Statesville, N.C.; Miss Martha Erckman, of Hendersonville, N.C.; Miss Maria Martin, of Louisville, Ky.; Miss Anne Shinkle, of Louisville, Ky.; Miss Janie Martin, of Bristol, Tenn.; Miss Sally Lonvinger, of Bristol, Tenn.; Miss Elsie Perrine, of Converse College; Miss “Pete” Murphy, of Salisbury, N.C.; Miss Regina Horne, of Mocksville, N.C.; Miss Buskirk, of Huntington, W.Va.; Miss Virginia Sevier, of Agnes Scott College; Miss Lillian LeConte, of Atlanta; Miss Christine McCrary, of Lexington, N.C.; Miss Lib Thornton, of Greensboro, N.C.; Miss Sarah Ashcraft, of Monroe, N.C.; Miss Suttle, of Shelby, N.C.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Miss Mary Lou McKinnon, Winthrop College; Miss Martha Clark, of Fayetteville, N.C.; Miss Gary Eleanor Parker, of Albany, Ga.; Miss Frances McCormick, of Salem College; Miss Marian Shaw, of Greensboro, N.C.; Miss Nancy Little, of Greensboro, N.C.; Miss Lois Dobson, of Greensboro, N.C.; Miss Martha Grimes, of Salisbury, N.C.; Miss Susan Grimes, of Salisbury, N.C.; Miss Beverly Northrup, of Wilmington, N.C.; Miss Lyall Wannamaker, of Orangeburg, S.C.; Miss Nonie Withers, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Eleanor McKinnon, of Hartsville, S.C.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Miss Pegram, of York, S.C.; Miss Owen, of Lexington, N.C.; Miss Laura Yorke, of Rock Hill, S.C.; Miss Hauser, of High Point, N.C.; Miss Deaton, of Statesville, N.C.; Miss Regan, of Laurinburg, N.C.; Miss Little, of Salem College; Miss Baskerville, of Monroe, Ga.; Miss Parrish, of Winston-Salem, N.C.; Miss Perry, of Winston-Salem, N.C.

Pi Kappa Phi—Miss Elsie Fluhardy, of N.C.; Miss “Piggie” Newell, of Greensboro, N.C.; Miss Sarah Brawley, of Greensboro, N.C.; Miss Margaret Caldwell, of Greensboro, N.C.; Miss Elizabeth Glidewell, of Reidsville, N.C.; Miss Ethel Glidewell, of Reidsville, N.C.; Miss Scottie Johnson, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Gee Miller, of New York, N.Y.; Miss Lib Magee, of Winston-Salem, N.C.; Miss Louise McLeod, of Maxton, N.C.; Miss Billie Gholson, of Henderson, N.C.; Miss Lucie Lee Pannell, of Greensboro, N.C.

Delta Theta Chi—Miss Rose, of Smithfield, N.C.; Miss Evelyn Shieder, of Shelby, N.C.; Miss I.T. Matheson, Winthrop College; Miss Frances James, N.C.C.W.; Miss Mary Ruth Rankin, Gastonia, N.C.; Miss Charlie Hoffman, of N.C.C.W.; Miss Lucille James, of N.C.C.W.; Miss Johnnie Coutey, of Marion, N.C.; Miss Ida Bell Gillihand, of Winthrop College; Miss Virginia Kirkpatrick, of N.C.C.W.; Miss Evelyn Fitch, of N.C.C.W.; Miss Dorothy Tilkey, of Marion, N.C.; Miss Mary Brandt Switzer, of Shelby, N.C.; Miss Kitty Wharton, of Greensboro, N.C.; Miss Olive Singleton, of Shelby, N.C.; Miss Rachel Minshall, of Winthrop College.

Theta Upsilon Omega—Miss Louise Garibaldi, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Alice Jane Fleagle, of Davidson, N.C.; Miss Mildred Biggers, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Mary Stewart Menzies, of Hickory, N.C.; Miss Florence Yarbrough, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Rebecca McGarrity, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Katherine Porter, of Davidson, N.C.; Miss Julia Josephs, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Kalista Hood, of Davidson, N.C.; Miss Kitty Frazer, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Sarah Kithers, of Davidson, N.C.; Miss Evelyn Josephs, of Charlotte, N.C.

Sigma Delta—Miss Louise Ligon, of Chicora College; Miss Mamie Churchill Smith, of Salem College; Miss Ruth Roark, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Annie B. Williams, of Salem College; Miss Edith Cochran, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Louise Fuller, of Charlotte, N.C.; Miss Lois Gillespie, of Converse College.

ORATORS INITIATED

The annual initiation of the Alpha Phi Epsilon fraternity was held Saturday night at 9:00 o'clock, in the Honorary Fraternity hall. At this meeting, L.M. McCutchen, M.C. O'Neal, and A.T. Dillard were formally made members. These men were chosen mainly for their oratorical ability but are also interested in various college affairs. McCutchen has held diverse offices in the Pan-Hellenic Literary Society and has represented the college in several debates. O'Neal and Dillard are actively interested in literary work.

CALENDAR

Thursday, February 10:
6:45—Literary Societies—Eumenean Society; Philanthropic Society.
7:00—Basketball—Davidson vs. Guilford.

Friday, February 11:
8:15—International Relations Club.
9:00—Alpha Phi Epsilon.

Saturday, February 12:
7:00—Basketball—Davidson vs. Lenoir-Rhyne.
9:00—Movie—"Tell It To the Marines."

Sunday, February 13:
9:45—Christian Endeavor Class, Shearer Hall.
2:30—Ministerial Band, Shearer Hall.
7:15—Y.M.C.A. Vespers, Shearer Hall.