10 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1927

Faculty Members to Renew Studies

Next year four of the younger members of the Davidson faculty will temporarily leave this institution for the purpose of more fully preparing themselves for their future work at Davidson. They are only on a leave of absence and all will return after completing their special training. The places left vacant by them will be filled by new members of the faculty. The men who are leaving are Prof. A. V. Goldiere, Prof. J. H. Davis, Prof. E. A. Beatty, and Prof. J. C. Bailey.

Prof. Goldiere will renew his studies of modern languages in the Romance Department of the Yale Graduate School. For the past five years, he has taught Spanish and French at Davidson.

Professor Davis, of the Biology Department, will continue his studies in Botany at the University of Chicago. Professor Davis took his M.A. at Davidson in the school year '23-'24, went to the University of Chicago, and returned to Davidson as a member of the Faculty last year.

Professor Beatty leaves the English Department to go to Columbia University where he will make further studies in Latin. After fifteen months of work there, he will return to Davidson to take the place of Dr. Grey whom the Board of Trustees have recently retired.

Professor Bailey, on a leave of absence for a year, will study Greek and Latin at Johns Hopkins University. While at Johns Hopkins, he will work with the Ph.D. in mind, towards which he has already done much work. He will return and take Dr. Harding’s position in the Greek Department. Professor Bailey is a recent graduate of Davidson. While here in school, he was Editor-in-Chief of the Davidsonian and a member of O. D. K.

Interesting Relic Left of Old Medical School

Remains of Boiling Vat Lies Below Athletic Field

Few students of Davidson know anything of the boiling vat which lies below the athletic field. It is almost the only remaining relic of the Medical School which was here and which so many of the leading doctors of the South attended. It is located south of the athletic field, halfway between it and the home of Mayor Hamilton. Only about four feet wide and eight feet long, it would present a sorry spectacle were it not for the touches of the imagination. Who knows how many bodies were boiled there, how many flesh-bare skeletons have been taken out after a day or two of cooking? Filled first with alcohol, it was loaded with as many as three corpses which were then boiled in order that the skeletons might be secured. The dissecting house, which was near.

NEW OFFICERS OF Y. M. C. A. INSTALLED SUNDAY EVENING

The “Y” Vesper service Sunday was given over to the installation of the new officers and cabinet. After the song service, the retiring president addressed the audience and the new officers. After a retrospective view of the “Y” of the past, he expressed his hope that the “Y” of the future be an association of Youth, of Men, of Christians, and that it be an Association in the full meaning of the word. He then welcomed the new president, Charley McRae.

McRae gave an inspiring talk in the acceptance of his office. He first addressed the old cabinet, stating that although they were unconscious of the fact, they had been of great service to the Davidson student body and that it was his hope that their zeal for service might continue with them throughout their whole life. He then thanked them on behalf of the student body for their untiring effort during the past year.

He accepted the office with a full consciousness of the responsibility and the opportunity that was his and a realization of the big place that the “Y” has played in the lives of the men of Davidson and the still greater place it can take in the future. Knowing the noble purposes and principles upon which the Y. M. C. A. was organized and realizing the great possibility of further development and usefulness, he pledged himself to put forth every effort to make the “Y” a more powerful influence in the life of Davidson men than ever before. He then turned his address to the new members of the cabinet. He told them that they had been chosen upon a basis.

Soph Presidential Election is Close

The election of president for the rising Sophomore class has been running close. Zeb Long and “Doc” Henderson were the remaining candidates early Tuesday morning.

At a meeting of the Freshman class last week, a nominating committee of five men was elected for the purpose of selecting candidates for the presidency of the class. The nominating committee consisted of Zeb Long, Tom Brohardt, Reid Brown, Dick Reynolds, and Matthews. These men nominated Nunan, Murray Christian, Carl Pritchett, and “Doc” Henderson. Others were nominated from the floor. On the first balloting, the votes were so close that only one man, the lowest, could be eliminated. This was also the case on the second and third days of the election. The results Tuesday morning showed Pritchett, Long, and Henderson in the lead. The final balloting will be between these three men.

Allan Frew, the retiring president of the class of ’30, conducted the election. Frew, in retiring, has written personal letters to every member of his class thanking them for the splendid co-operation given the present officers. The election of the vice-president and the secretary of the class will be held immediately after the election of the president. The duties of the Secretary and.The failings and successes of the old cabinet during the past year, he said, that only three men were eliminated after three days of balloting. Carl Pritchett, Treasurer of next year’s class, will be largely in the hands of the Treasurer.

Plans have already been made by the class toward providing for the expenses of their Junior Week. At a recent meeting of the class, a motion that each member be assessed a dollar was unanimously passed. Tuesday has been named as the day for the paying of this volunteer assessment.

Old Chambers Bell was partly melted in the heat before the disastrous fire. The old college bell, which hung in the belfry in Old Chambers Building, tolled for the last time, after fifteen generations of faithful service, on the morning of November 18, 1921. The fire which destroyed Chambers Building melted parts of the bell and caused the rest to be broken into bits when it fell.

For some time following the fire, the shrieks of a steam whistle attached to the room of the Commissary (now revised to the Student Store) aroused slumbering students, blew its pleasant notes for meals, and marked the class hours. This, however, got out of order so often that it was found necessary to substitute a train bell. This worked admirably for a time, but the need for a larger and better bell was strongly felt. Hon. Brevard McDowell, of Charlotte, saw the pressing need and donated to the college the splendid bell which it now possesses. The gift, a memorial to the Hon. Brevard McDowell, was greatly appreciated.

The campus has been overhauled this spring at a considerable expense to the college. In the bare spots about the campus, new grass has been planted. Because of the cooperation of the students in keeping off the campus and on the walks and paths as much as possible, the area now shows a marked improvement over its appearance this time last year. One of the most pleasing improvements in the general appearance of the college is the new sod around Chambers Building, which was completely bare last year and is now one of the prettiest plots on the campus. The ground between the gymnasium and the walled field has been graded and covered over with a layer of rich soil. It is now ready to be sown with grass and will be in good shape by next year. Taking all in all, the beauty of the campus has been greatly improved since the beginning of this year by human and natural influences. At this time of year, when the outside appearance of the college shows up best, the campus puts on a pleasing aspect to the visitor and student.

Professor Fleagle of the faculty then gave a talk, the main theme of which was Student Support of the Y. M. C. A. He said that the Y. M. C. A. is the most democratic organization which we have upon the campus and cited examples to prove the statement. He said, however, that it had a republican form of government and in that lay its weakness.

Trade Street stores have gone into the college trade more extensively than ever before. We have studied the college man’s needs and have endeavored to meet them. Come in and look our line over.

VOGUE CLOTHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Are you absolutely sure you are protected—that your policies cover the present value of your property? How about your home, your personal belongings, your place of business, your stock of merchandise, your automobile, your garage? Let this agency help you determine your insurance values.

INDEPENDENCE INSURANCE TRUST COMPANY DEPARTMENT
McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr.
M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)

BRAEBURN’S All-Collegiate is all that the name implies—a style determined by college men, made for college men by expert tailors who know their likes and dislikes, from fabrics specially designed by Braeburn for that exclusive purpose. And the price is well within the bounds of the college man’s clothes budget.

$35 to $50

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.