6 - THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1927

Board of Education is Entertained by College

Messrs. Rose, Thorrelson, and Trevor Entertained by Davidson College Officials

On Wednesday, October 12th, Davidson was host to officers and members of the General Election Board of North Carolina. Those of the board who were visiting at Davidson were Dr. Wickliffe Rose, president of the board; Mr. H. J. Thorrelson, director of the division of college and university education, and Mr. Trevor Arnette, a member of the board. These gentlemen arrived at Davidson about noon last Wednesday and were entertained at lunch by Dr. Martin, president of the school, and several members of the Davidson faculty. Immediately after lunch, the members of the board were taken on an inspection tour of the college buildings and campus. During the course of the inspection, numerous conferences were held between various members of the faculty and members of the board on comparative methods of instruction and other subjects related to college education.

Dr. Rose expressed himself as being delighted with the expansion that Davidson has made in the past few years, with the appearance of the buildings and grounds, and with the general atmosphere of the school. Davidson is indeed grateful to these members of the state educational board who have co-operated with Davidson so cordially in past years. They were always willing to lend their assistance in every way when the college inaugurated their drives for funds, and in many other ways have been of valuable assistance to Davidson. Before their next visit, it is hoped that the remainder of Chambers building will be completed so that Davidson will again reveal a growing school to these men representing the state in matters of education.

Ten Big Meets On Debating Schedule

According to a statement issued by Bob Grady, secretary of Intercollegiate Debates for the Forensic Council, Davidson College will undertake what is probably the most strenuous schedule yet attempted along debating lines in the history of this activity at Davidson. The number of teams to be met, ten in number, equals that of last year. Two trips are planned, one to the south, going as far down as Gainesville, Fla., where the University of Florida will be met, thence to Emory, Ga., where Emory University will be met, with a concluding meet at Sewanee, Tenn., with the University of the South. The Northern trip will include a debate with George Washington University, and one, in every likelihood, with Haverford College. The third debate for this trip has not been selected up to this time. Four home debates will be held, the only one scheduled as yet, however, being with Rutgers University. A debate with Duke University is tentative. Davidson's other two opponents have not been selected. All of the above referred to debates will be held during the spring of 1928.

Davidson will be represented in debating this year by five teams of two men each, the tryouts for these teams to be held in the early part of December. A successful season is predicted as there is very promising material from the Freshman team of last year, and in addition, five former varsity men are back at school. These latter men are Henry Powell, with two years’ varsity experience to his credit; L. K. Pritchett, W. K. Pritchett, Tyree Miller, and Bob Grady. No plans for the Freshman team have been made as yet, although two teams will be.

Excellent Pictures Scheduled for Gym

The “Y” has scheduled many good shows for the immediate future. “Wolves of the Air” will be shown at the Gym Saturday night. The leading roles in this picture of the air are acted by: Johnnie Walker, Mildred Harris, Gayne Whitman, Lois Boyd, Maurice Costello, Jay Hunt, and Edmund Cobb. This is an amazing melodrama of a youth’s fight to win an airplane race against the friend who had stolen his factory and won his sweetheart. If you want adventure, if you like thrills and spine-tingling sensations, if you prefer romance involved in spirited action—then you will go crazy about “Wolves of the Air.”

Other pictures to be shown are “The Cruise of the Hellion” on November 5th. This is an adventure of the high seas, of desperate deeds, of love and intrigue, featuring Edna Murphy and Donald Keith. “Wanted—A Coward,” will be shown on November 10th. Then on November 27th comes “Cat and Canary,” a mystery of China. On November 12th “Dynamite Dan,” featuring Kenneth McDonald, will be shown.selected, one to meet University of North Carolina here, and one there.

WILDCATS UNCOVER FAST SS mate on the other side in Laws. All of the Davidson touchdowns came as the result of straight football, one touchdown being made in each quarter. One break favored the Red and Black machine when Elon fumbled on her own 6-yard line in the final quarter and Davidson recovered. From here it was short work to a touchdown.

Line-up and summary: (Continued from page 1) by Flynn, who made a number of beautiful runs during the afternoon. Nesbit played his usual consistent, hard-driving game. The Elon eleven never let up in its attempts to score. They frequently resorted to the air in a series of desperate attempts to score, and made consistent gains on their passes, but were unable to penetrate the thin red line when the goal was neared. Walker, playing at quarter for the Elonites, was their outstanding ground gainer and tackler. At least twice he brought down Davidson runners when they had passed all others. The Davidson line worked with clock-like precision and time after time Elon backs were stopped in their tracks. Melton, at guard, was a standout.

Player Position Wt. Home Address Years on Team
Monk Ober Halfback 170 Fort Scott, Kansas 3
Ralph James Quarterback 155 Asheville 3
Johnny Cox Halfback 165 New Mexico 3
Mead Connelly Fullback 180 Greensboro 3
Ed Stallings Fullback 187 Goldsboro 3
Clayton End 150 Brevard 2
Otis Pearson Guard 190 Fayetteville 2
Luther Person Guard 180 Fayetteville 3
Charles Zimmerman Tackle 178 Asheville 2
Jack Phelps Tackle 194 Creswell 2
Hal Weir Guard 180 Asheville 2
Weldon Weir Guard 175 Asheville 1
Blair Stroupe Tackle 174 Mount Holly 2
Bill Stradley Guard 170 Asheville 2
Jesse Phifer Center 165 Rockingham 2
Al Gennone Center 164 Wilmington 2
W. Planting Guard 180 Wake Forest 3
Paul Dorsett End 178 Spencer 2
C. Kuykendall Quarterback 155 Asheville 2
Bill Gibson Fullback 180 Wagram 2
V. Hackney Halfback 175 Greensboro 2
E. Mills Halfback 160 Greensboro 1
B. Norris Halfback 150 Greensboro 2
H. Jones Guard 175 Wake Forest 1
Ayres Halfback 139 Forest City 2
Dawkins Halfback 156 Candor 1
Denton Tackle 176 Raleigh 2
Padgett Tackle 170 Raleigh 2
Walker QB Wilson

Dr. Floyd L. Knight, '20, was married to Miss Dorothy Ward, of Eastman, Ga., on June 28, 1927, at the home of the bride’s parents. Dr. and Mrs. Knight are now at home in Sanford, N. C.

SENIORS WIN FIRST

Cook Harrison

Elon: Jones, Brock, Efird, Wilson, Foster, Parish, Nisbet, Kell, McGeachy, Hewlett, Baker, Hampton, Gilmour (4), Withers (8), Leftwich, Black, McEachern, Harper, Archie, Matthews.

Rev. William H. Mattheson, ’24, was married to Miss Laura Louise Barclay on Friday afternoon, September 30. The ceremony was performed by the bride’s father, Rev. Jonas Barclay. After a wedding tour in Virginia, Rev. and Mrs. Mattheson returned to Thomasboro, N. C., where they are making their home.

Officials — Referee: Brice (Auburn); Rawson (Georgia), umpire.

Score by periods:
Elon 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson 7 7 7 6—27

Scoring touchdowns: Grey (2), Harrison, Flynn. Attendance: 3,500.