THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1927

FLORIDA ALUMNI ORGANIZE THREE NEW ASSOCIATIONS

Seventy-Four Former Students Attend
Alumni in Bainbridge and Atlanta Also Gather For Enthusiastic Dinner-Meets
Organization of Alumni Chapters in Florida Marks New Era in Alumni Work

MILTON ON SPEAKS
Jacksonville, Orlando, St. Petersburg Have Chapters

Five local chapters of the Davidson College Alumni Association held meetings within one week of each other, beginning on September 23rd, and ending on September 30th. This series marked the beginning of the alumni meetings, which the home office is planning for forty cities or districts this year, and which more than doubles the number which were organized, reorganized, and began more active work last year.

These meetings covered a territory that extended from North Georgia to the southwestern coast of Florida, giving many alumni the opportunity to gather together, seventy-eight of them taking advantage of them, this number coming from eighteen different cities or towns. North and South Georgia, and all of Florida but the southeastern coast were included in these meetings.

The SGNF (South Georgia-North Florida) Association, organized at Thomasville, Ga., during the Christmas holidays, met at Bainbridge, Ga., on September 23rd. The Atlanta organization, which has been in existence for many years, and which also met and started more enthusiastically last Christmas, met on September 27th, and the following new organizations were perfected on succeeding nights: Northeastern Florida at Jacksonville; Central Florida at Orlando, and Florida West Coast at St. Petersburg.

At all five of the meetings telegrams of greeting, best wishes and the assurance that the college was behind its alumni, were read from Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson, the associations at Bainbridge, Atlanta and Orlando acknowledging these, expressing their appreciation and pleasure over the progress of Davidson. At Bainbridge a wire was also received and acknowledged from Dr. J. M. MacConnell, and at the same meeting, a letter was read from the Alumni Secretary.

A new feature at the meetings this year is the singing of “O Davidson” and “College Ties.” Music is sent out ahead for the former, while copies are either sent or carried to all of the meetings. This has enlivened the meetings, made them peppier, and apparently has created more interest and brought the alumni closer together.

Because of their location, the four associations at Bainbridge, St. Petersburg, Jacksonville and Orlando were particularly concerned with the approaching football game between the Davidson Wildcats and the University of Florida Gators, and it always came in for a share of the discussion. The Jacksonville and Orlando groups wire messages (Continued on page 8)

A Dollar Saved is Alumni Office to Send Delegate to Atlanta
Assistant Secretary Will Attend Regional Conference This Week

Harllee Branch, Jr., Assistant Alumni Secretary, leaves Davidson Friday night for Atlanta, Ga., to attend a Regional Conference of the American Alumni Council, which will meet at the Ansley Hotel in the Georgia city Saturday, the sessions to begin early in the morning and last through the entire day.

At the spring meeting of the American Alumni Council, held at Chapel Hill, it was decided to have this conference, the date to be later decided by a committee, with R. E. Thigpen, Alumni Secretary and president of this district, acting in charge. Alumni problems in southern colleges differ from those of a national nature, and to properly and intimately discuss these matters, the meeting Saturday was deemed advisable.

According to the program, which has been received in the alumni office here, those attending will have ample opportunity to get many new ideas, and to listen to experienced men. Among the most notable will be Wilfred B. Shaw, Alumni Secretary of the University of Michigan, and who has become nationally known as the “Dean of Alumni Secretaries,” Mr. Shaw’s work at Chapel Hill being of prominence. Among other alumni secretaries, or those connected with alumni work, who will appear on the program are Miss Polly Stone, Agnes Scott; Miss Clara Byrd, N. C. C. W.; A. J. Hanna, Rollins College; Tyre Taylor, University of North Carolina; W. H. Wraneck, University of Virginia; V. B. Kemp, Washington and Lee; Miss Jennie Loyall, Wesleyan College, and R. J. Theissan, Georgia Tech.

“Ask Me Another” on the program is where new ideas will be obtained, and problems discussed in detail.

O. D. K. SPONSORS TAP DAY (Continued from page one)

to the entire organization but has been inaugurated by several other circles. Omicron Delta Kappa was organized at Washington and Lee College in 1914 and has had such success in so short a time that it is now a national organization and comprises about 34 circles. The Delta Circle ofDavidson College was founded in 1917, only three years after O.D.K. came into existence. The present members of O.D.K. are Boyce Martin, H. M. Arrowood, C. F. McRae, W. O. Nesbit, W. R. Grey, F. C. Withers, W. L. Lingle, together with 11 faculty members and Coaches Younger and Mattox. This enrollment will be increased by about five members of the Senior class on bid day. Shortly after Tap Day, the public and private initiations will occur. The circle always provides speakers of excellent merit for the occasion, to which both the students and townspeople are invited.

Dollar Earned!
It is rarely the tendency of juries to show partiality toward the defendant motorist. You may save thousands of dollars by carrying AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE.
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McALISTER CARSON (’13) Mgr.
M. B. SPEIR, JR. (’26)

MAKE US YOUR HEADQUARTERS
It is our ambition to know each of the boys personally
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

APPRECIATION
In this manner, I would like to publicly express my sincere appreciation to every alumnus of Davidson College who attended the five recent meetings of local alumni associations. Particularly, I would like to express my thanks to those who so diligently and faithfully made the preliminary arrangements, taking valuable time from their business, and perhaps working overtime in reaching alumni. It has been a pleasure to meet you personally, and to accept your cordial hospitality, but a greater pleasure would be to greet you at Davidson—on Homecoming Day, October 20th, at commencement in June, or at any other time that you may be able to visit the campus.
Cordially yours,
ERNEST MILTON, Alumni Secretary.

Mr. W. N. Hovis, ex-’26, was married to Miss Lillington Hargett at the Chadwick Methodist Church, Charlotte, on Wednesday evening, September 6th, Rev. B. F. Hargett officiating. After the ceremony, the bride and groom left for a motor trip through the mountains of western North Carolina, returning to Charlotte, where they are now making their home on North Tryon Street.

Meetings Held in Florida
Association Select Their Officers
Atlanta and SGNF Chapters Retain Same Leaders

Two of the five local alumni associations which held meetings during the past week have been in existence for some time, but the other three were absolutely new organizations. The former maintained their same officers until a later meeting, while the names of the new chapters and their officers are:

Northeastern Florida
President, Dr. W. M. Shaw, ’15, Jacksonville.
Vice-President, G. D. Green, II, ’21, Jacksonville.
Secretary-Treasurer, T. S. Baker, ’26, Jacksonville.

Central Florida
President, C. E. Ferron, ’13, Eustis.
Vice-President, Sidney Ives, III, ’24, Orlando.
Secretary-Treasurer, Rev. J. B. Belk, D.D., Orlando.

Florida West Coast
President, Dr. J. Frank Cranford, St. Petersburg.
Vice-President, C. R. Anderson, ’27, St. Petersburg.
Secretary-Treasurer, P. F. Jones, ’27, St. Petersburg.

Florida and Georgia
Thirty-One Different Classes Represented at Davidson Gatherings

Seventy-four alumni of Davidson College attended five association meetings in Georgia and Florida during the past week, representing three states, eighteen towns or cities, and thirty-one classes. The meetings were held at Atlanta, Ga., Bainbridge, Ga., Jacksonville, Fla., Orlando, Fla., and St. Petersburg, Fla., the latter four adjourning for special sessions at Gainesville, Fla., Saturday, to watch the Davidson Wildcats put the skids under the strong University of Florida outfit. States represented were Virginia, Georgia, and Florida. One alumnus attended from Barber, Va., while Georgia towns and cities had alumni present from Atlanta, College Park, Decatur, Columbus, Griffin, Bainbridge, Thomasville, and Folkston. Florida towns from which alumni came were Quincy, Monticello, Jacksonville, Gainesville, Orlando, Eustis, St. Petersburg, Dunedin, and Clearwater.

(Continued on page 8)

Distinguished by a favor that places it first
It is a natural pride that Camel feels for its triumphs. Not only did it lead the field shortly after its introduction, it passed steadily on with each succeeding year until today it holds a place in public favor higher than any other smoke ever reached. Camel is supreme with modern smokers. Obviously, there is a quality here that particular smokers appreciate. It is indeed the myriad qualities of perfection that are to be found in the choicest tobaccos grown. And the art of blending that unfolds each delicate taste and fragrance. You will more than like Camels. You will find a solace in them every smoking hour. Their mildness and mellowness are an endless pleasure.
“Have a Camel!”
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
© 1927