THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 12, 1927 | Alumni Personals

W. T. Dunlap, 'at Niagara Falls, N. Y., was recently married to Miss Helen Shaffer, also of that city.

J. E. Millner, '26, has been awarded a fellowship in Romance languages by the University of North Carolina. He is now a professor in Danville Military Institute.

E. R. Rankin, '06, has been elected as alderman on the city council of the city of Statesville.

New addresses which have been obtained through class lists recently mailed out reveal the following location of Davidson alumni who had been listed as incorrect:
F. P. Hall, '87, Belmont.
Rev. J. K. Hall, '87, Gastonia.
Dr. W. S. Moore, '97, Heath Springs, S. C.
Rev. W. A. Nisbet, '87, 205 Clinton Bldg., Abilene, Texas.
Rev. G. H. Cornelson, '92, Clinton, S. C.
Rev. W. H. Boggs, '07, 1024 Ponce de Leon Ave., Atlanta, Ga.
C. B. Flowe, '07, A. M. Pullen Co., Richmond, Va.
S. W. Hodge, '07, 619 W. 8th St., Philadelphia, Pa.
C. B. Fetner, '12, Cherryville.
H. A. Campbell, '17, Pinehurst.
S. C. Harris, '19, care Dillon Herald, Dillon, S. C.
B. Magill, '17, Victoria, Va.
Rev. H. S. Morgan, '17, Reidsville.
Rev. C. G. Brown, '22, Porger, Texas.
A. A. Campbell, '22, 709 Travelers Bldg., Richmond, Va.
M. R. Doubles, '22, Chero-Cola Co., Miami, Fla.
W. H. Knox, '22, 1117 Washington Ave., Huntington, W. Va.
P. H. Mezzlepine, '22, Chattanooga, Tenn.
T. F. Martin, '22, Box 1319, Washington, D. C.
D. L. Mahood, '22, 810 18th St., S. W., Washington, D. C.
H. H. Massey, '22, Shelby.
J. W. Phillips, '22, McGuire’s University School, Richmond, Va.
H. R. Poole, Sutton, W. Va.
L. Wilkinson, '22, 126 Carter Road, Shanghai, China.
M. N. Broughton, '26, 2103 Nueces St., Austin, Texas.
Rev. J. B. Sloan, '24, is now pastor of a group of churches, with Edgefield, S. C., as headquarters.
Rev. A. M. Mitchell, '21, has accepted a call to Camilla, Ga.

When You Need a Car For a Special Occasion

EVERY now and then there’s a social event that almost demands you have a car for a day or an evening. In which case you'll find it mighty convenient to step into our station—select your car and be on the way—yourself at the wheel. You rent a car in about two minutes. No red tape. No annoying questions. And our service has this decided advantage—the cost is so low you can afford to use a car frequently if you wish. The only requirement is that you be qualified and competent to drive a car. That’s all. Next time you want to go somewhere—days, evenings or week-ends—we invite you to go in one of our cars. You'll like the service.

Ride in Groups and Split the Cost

It costs no more for five to ride in one of our cars. Plan a trip with three or four others—divide the bill—and the cost to each is so small you'll never miss it.

DRIV-UR-SELF STATIONS CONTROLLED BY YELLOW ACH MFG. CO. MOTORS CORPORATION
Hertz Drivurself Stations, Inc., (Dixie)
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
20 S. Church St. Phone 3600
509 W. Trade St. Phone 7898

Davidson Men Honored by Theological Seminary
Richards Made Instructor and Sloan Wins Medal

Dr. R. T. Gillespie made a public announcement on Sunday, May 8th, concerning the recent appointment of J. McDowell Richards to the position of instructor in the Department of Old Testament Literature of Columbia Theological Seminary, S.C., and of the winning of the Wilde Medal by J. Benton Sloan at the Seminary.

The appointment of Mr. Richards was made last week at the annual meeting of the Board of Directors of Columbia Seminary. Mr. Richards will assist the Rev. Dr. W. M. McPheeters with the work of the department. Dr. McPheeters has for 30 years been a professor of Old Testament Literature and Exegesis at Columbia. As he plans to prepare during the coming year a manuscript for the publication of his course, it is to relieve him and give him opportunity.to do this work that Mr. Richards has been appointed to assist him. This announcement will be of interest to the people of the village and to the faculty and students of the college because Mr. Richards is a graduate of Davidson. He finished here in the class of 1922 with an enviable record. While here, Mr. Richards took quite a leading part in many student activities. He was a member of the Eumenean Literary Society, Editor of the Davidsonian '20-'21, Editor-in-Chief of the Davidsonian '21-'22, member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Reporters' Club, Managing Editor of the Davidsonian '21-'22, Captain in the R.O.T.C. Department, scrubbed four years in both football and baseball, won the Bushman Scholarship Medal, the Orators Medal '21, the Essayist Medal '22, was a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet '20-'22, and Valedictorian of the class of '22. He was a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

As a background of training in theology and teaching, Mr. Richards graduated and went from here to Princeton where he received his master's degree. From 1923 to 1924 he studied at Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar. With this and his fine record at Davidson, the Board deemed him worthy of this desirable and honorable position. During the summer he will spend most of his time at his home here in Davidson, where he will study and prepare for the work required of him in the coming fall. His study will be under the personal direction of Dr. McPheeters, who will spend the summer in Charlotte.

Rev. J. Benton Sloan is also a Davidson graduate, of the class of 1924. The Wilde Literary Prize is given for the best scholastic work during the three years at the Seminary. This is the only prize given at the seminary and is considered a very high honor. Rev. Mr. Sloan went from Davidson to Edgefield, S.C., later to Columbia Seminary, where he has been for the last three years. While at Davidson he was very prominent in the chemistry work, making one of the highest grades ever made here in that department. He was also connected with the Dramatic Club, Phi Beta Kappa, and held several offices in student organizations. He is also remembered by the students because of his remarkable ability as a contortionist. He was a member of Delta Theta Chi social fraternity.

UNITED PRESS WANTS WRITERS FOR STUDENT SYNDICATE.

New York (By New Student Bureau) — "Collegiate stuff" continues to be wanted by the newspapers. Football, college morals, the "revolt," and, during the past few months, the "suicide wave" still made good copy for the daily papers. The latest effort along this line is a proposal for an international newspaper service of student writers by the United Feature Syndicate of New York, an organization owned and operated by the United Press. As a starting point for this service, the Syndicate has sent out a call for student articles, not to exceed 500 words, "giving a direct, vitalized and intelligent cross-section of youthful thought and outlook." Five or six of the most important questions are: 1. What is your opinion? 2. Is the United States becoming imperialistic? 3. Are we on the way to Rome?

The King of Bulgaria has two pet elephants which he has personally taught to carry lumber and do circus tricks.

As a pipe tobacco of singular merit... Modestly priced, yes — because it is inexpensively and sensibly packed in heavy foil instead of a costly tin. But judge it neither on price nor package, but on its good taste and superb smoking qualities. For character, mild richness, and coolness, it will compare with any pipe tobacco made.

Railroad records show that slaves were hired out to the railroad by their masters. Their services were valued at $20 to $25 a month according to their physical abilities.

Greater London has 2,300 miles of streets and their upkeep costs about $15,000,000 a year.

Tipping in Spanish hotels is now forbidden, the tipping charge being added to the regular hotel bill.

With the marriage season nearing, the Straits Settlements have imported $125,000 in American gold coin. This is melted into ornaments for the brides.

In Korea, women are taught that the greatest feminine virtues are silence, humility, and timidity.

"Give me a sentence using 'kith' and 'kin.'"
"I kith you as long as I kin."