THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 10, 1927

SERIES OF LECTURES TO BE GIVEN TO STAFF REPORTERS

The Davidsonian staff has taken a forward stride in maintaining The Davidsonian as the best paper in the Carolinas and
making it the best in the South by preparing a series of lectures for the new and old reporters. These
lectures are given by some member of the staff, some instructor in the English department of the college, or by
some experienced representative of the various publications in the surrounding cities.

The purpose of these talks to the contributors of the paper is to give them helpful hints and suggestions that
will aid them in developing their ability to “put it across” to the readers. Harllee Branch made the first talk
to the reporters on the general appearance of the paper and the knack of writing snappy heads which will give
to the reader the gist of the news in an attractive manner. P. F. Jones made the next talk on
feature writing, followed the next week by the talk of A. N. Brown on how to accomplish the best results
as a reporter. “Good English in News Articles” was the subject of Dr. E. F. Shewmake’s talk to the reporters
last Monday night. Literary English is somewhat different from journalistic English, he explained, the average college journalist being more literary
than the city reporter. He stated that slang is permissible in newspapers to a certain extent. Some common errors in
sentence structure were pointed out and illustrated. The examples given by Dr. Shewmake were taken from a manuscript that he
is preparing for a college textbook. In closing, he recommended several books for reading and stated that the dictionary should
ever be before the writer as one of the most useful sources of study.

That the average Davidsonian reporter, when beginning to write for the paper, needs coaching and instruction is because of the
fact that most of the recruits with which the staff has to deal are raw and have had little or
no experience. In these lectures, the new men are given facts and suggestions about writing which they could never get
by mere practice in composition. A check taken on the attendance of the new journalistic aspirants and their regularity in
attending is noted as a measure of their interest in the work and their adaptability for future responsibilities.

These meetings are held regularly every Monday night at 7:00 o’clock and any who are interested in writing and wish
to attend are invited to do so. Prof. E. J. Erwin will speak next Monday night on “Feature Writing.” The
editor of The Davidsonian is in correspondence with the editors of the Charlotte Observer and the Charlotte News, and it
is thought that a talk by one of these men will be arranged soon. Other speakers on the same general
subject are being sought.

FORENSIC TRYOUTS RESULT
(Continued from page 1)

Prof. C. K. Brown acted as judges in selecting this team. After hearing a series of excellent debates, the judges
chose W. K. Pritchette and R. C. Grady as the members of the team. Laurence Dumas is the alternate. The
others who debated are: J. P. McKnight, A. F. Lapsley, and B. F. Webb. Davidson will have the negative side
of this question also. In order to select the other two debating teams which will compete this spring, two more
try-outs will be necessary. The first of these will be held March 8th. Resolved, That the United States should cancel
Inter-allied war debts, is the question to be debated. The team that is selected at that time will make an
extended Northern trip to debate against the teams of Gettysburg, William and Mary, and Rutgers, all in their home territory.
The last team will be selected on the evening of March 22nd. This team will debate the question: “Resolved, That
the Volstead Act should be modified,” against Sewanee, at Davidson. Inter-collegiate debating for this year will be brought to a
close at Davidson by this debate.

INTERCLASS TRACK MEET
(Continued from page 1)

The following schools have entered with indications of more to follow: Brevard, Concord, Raleigh, Greensboro, Reidsville, Fayetteville, Salisbury, Statesville, Wilmington,
and Barium Springs. Charlotte, the winner of last year’s meet, has not yet definitely decided to enter yet. At the
last meeting of the As-You-Like-It Club held in the home of Mrs. Sample on Concord Road, Mrs. White read a
very interesting paper on the life and works of Dr. Grenfell.

Constitution Adopted by Journalist Fraternity: Delta Pi Kappa Meets to Make Future Plans

Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, met last Friday evening. In the course of business several important projects were proposed,
discussed, and acted upon. At a previous meeting, a constitutional committee, composed of Dan Wharton and Caldwell Withers, was appointed
to draft a new constitution for the fraternity. They presented the new constitution at this time and it was adopted.

The main feature of the new constitution as differing from the old one is a special provision for the election
of new members. The drafting of the new constitution was one of the steps taken in reorganizing Delta Pi Kappa
in accordance with the requirements of the honorary fraternity council. At a previous meeting, a message was received from the
honorary fraternity council to the effect that Delta Pi Kappa must be completely reorganized in order to keep its place
in the council. Previously, Delta Pi Kappa was only a conditional member of the council as it was organized only
last year. Therefore, the fraternity has made extensive plans for the progress of the organization and it was voted at
the meeting to comply with the requirement of the honorary fraternity council at once.

After considerable discussion, the following steps were taken: Walter Lingle, Jr. and Martin Boyce were appointed as an insignia committee
to work out and draw up a copy of a new emblem and present it at the next meeting. Plans
were discussed for a series of talks to be made to the fraternity by noted journalists of the state during
the spring. A committee composed of Caldwell Withers, Buford Webb, and White Hancock was appointed to plan this program and
to secure the speakers. This program will probably be begun in a few weeks, according to the arrangements that the
committee can make with the speakers.

A discussion was held as to whether or not Delta Pi Kappa should take steps toward becoming a member of
some national journalistic fraternity. This was reviewed thoroughly and a proposal was made that the matter be investigated. No further
decision was made and the matter was carried over to the next meeting. It is expected that some action will
be taken along this line in the near future.

April Issue Fatal for the Chameleon

The next issue of the Chameleon will come out about April 10th. The editor requests that material for the April
number be handed in before March 21st as no material handed in after that time can be published. At a
recent meeting of the Davidson Publication Board, it was decided that only one number of the Chameleon will be published
this spring. Thus, the April number will be the last issue of the Chameleon this year. It is not known
what the Chameleon color will be this spring, but the editor promises a cover appropriate to the season. The April
number will be featured by more art work than the former issues and is expected to be the best which
Cham’s carrying colors. Contributors are urged to turn in their material as soon as possible: verse to Caligan; fiction to
Warren Ogden; essays to Don Wharton; and reviews to Jimmy Wharton.

RESUME OF MAT SEASON
(Continued from page 2)

7 1-2 to 13 1-2. The next to the last meet of the season was held here with Duke. Again,
the local team lost by a 6 to 15 score, but as usual, showed good form and the old to
down the strong Blue Devil team. The last meet was scheduled to be held here on February 26th, but was
put off on account of the death of Captain Joe Frierson's brother. The meet was held later at Carolina. The
Wildcats lost this match by a 20 to 3 score. The members of the varsity squad were as follows: Frierson,
118 poundclass; Flythe, 128-pound class; Davis, 138-pound class; Estridge, 148-pound class; Crinkley, 158-pound class; and Garrison, 165-pound class; Hill and
Vance, in the unlimited class. The Wildcats meet, however, by 6 points, the score being The Wildcats. The last meet
of the year, with Carolina.

Six New Men Initiated by Chemical Fraternity
Two Seniors and Four Juniors Honored by Membership

On Monday night, the local chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon chemical fraternity honored six students of the college with election
to membership on the basis of proficiency in this science. A special provision was made in the case of the
fraternity to hold spring elections at this time. Those chosen were W. O. Puckett, of Cornelius; F. D. Daniel, of
Charlottesville, Va.; H. L. Neely, of Charlotte; W. B. Bradford, of Charlotte; J. H. McConnell, of Davidson; and T. T.
Jones, of El Paso, Texas.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon was established at Davidson College six years ago, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, head of the Chemistry Department
of Davidson, being a leading figure in its founding. The fraternity has had a healthy growth, now having chapters in
some of the leading colleges and universities of the country. All of the newly elected are members of the Junior
class with the exception of W. O. Puckett and J. H. McConnell, Seniors. Puckett holds membership in Scabbard and Blade,
national honorary military fraternity, is the Senior captain in the R.O.T.C., and occupies a position of leadership in the Corps
of the college. McConnell is president of his class, a member of the Student Council, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council,
and a member of O.D.K. and Kappa Alpha, social fraternity. The other four elect are prominent men of their class,
being engaged in different forms of campus activities. Daniel is particularly interested in debating and forensic activities. T. T. Jones,
a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, is president of the Reporters’ Club and is exceptionally proficient in journalistic
lines. W. B. Bradford, a member of the International Relations Club and Sigma Epsilon fraternity, is making honor grades in
all subjects, being particularly efficient in chemistry. H. L. Neely is an active man in his class and among the
students as a whole, and his election to membership in Gamma Sigma Epsilon is very gratifying because of the extremely
high grades he is making in this subject and because of the fact that Gamma Sigma Epsilon, unlike most other
honorary fraternities, offers bids only when such grades in the subject have merited such.

Ring to be Built

The coming of spring has brought a revival of boxing interests at Davidson. Captain Elkins, having taken an active interest
in the sport, recently called for a show of hands among the Freshman class, in order to see just how
many of the new men would support this form of sport. These men showed, almost unanimously, that they were in
favor of this and would support any movement to promote boxing that might be made in the near future. Accordingly,
to the delight of students, a rapid advance in the pugilistic sport is expected. A regular-sized arena has been planned,
measured according to the standard set by the Marquis of Queensberry, to be located between the South Barracks and the
Gymnasium, not far from the wildcat cage. As soon as this is constructed and is ready for use, inter-class boxing
meets in all weights and classes will be held. No intercollegiate matches can be held because of a faculty ruling,
which prohibits them. No letters will be awarded because of this ruling but a great deal of interest will be
aroused by keen competition among the different classes. There are several men in school who are very good in this
sport and more interest will be aroused if more men become efficient. If a fitting enthusiasm can be aroused for
this sport it will add much to athletics at Davidson, as a good boxing team will always be a favorable
drawing card.

JUNIORS WILL RAISE FUNDS

The assessment is only one of a number of ways by which money is to be raised. The class has
booked several attractions which are to be brought here in an attempt to raise more money for Junior week. As
the program for this year’s Junior Speaking is to be an elaborate one and therefore an expensive one, the finance
committee is hoping that every member of the Junior class will come across and do his share.

The speaker of the evening, as yet not announced, will at this time deliver the main address of the program.
Prof. J. P. Williams, Freshman dean, and Prof. K. J. Foreman, a popular member of the faculty, will speak a
few words to the class. The climax of the occasion will be a minstrel given under the direction of the
program committee headed by Jim Matthews. The minstrel is to be quite a surprise and details are being carefully kept
secret. However, it is known that besides jokes and music there will be a Hebrew dialogue that promises to be
a very interesting impersonation of campus leaders. The orchestra, led by Charlie Orr, will play at intervals during the minstrel
and J. C. Elkins will play on the xylophone.

Plans for the banquet are almost complete, and the event promises to fulfill the highest expectations of all the Freshmen.

Safe-guarding tobacco’s priceless asset

GRANGER tobacco that’s a veritable treasure, a wealth of rich mellowness, worth its weight in gold... deserves every possible protection
to assure its safekeeping. So, the utmost precaution is taken to safeguard Granger's priceless properties. To prevent the loss of
one bit of its freshness, Granger is first packed in a heavy-foil pouch... Then to be 100% on the safe
side, this is sealed AIR-TIGHT in an extra outside-wrapper of glassine—keeping the tobacco ‘factory-fresh’ till you break the seal to
load your pipe! Our chemists say it is ‘an almost perfect seal for tobacco condition’—protecting tobacco better than any container
except the vacuum tin. Then, because it is much less expensive than a costly pocket-tin, Granger's pocket-packet sells at just
ten cents. It’s the greatest value ever offered for pipes only!

Granger Rough Cut is made by the Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company.

MUSICAL PROGRAM TO BE

The dramatic club will feature in future editions of The Davidsonian. Besides these two performances, the Juniors will bring several
other groups here within the next month in order that everything connected with Junior week will be better than ever
before. All the committees appointed by Boyce Martin, who is in charge of arrangements, are hard at work and drawing
their plans up into visible form. The program committee, under the direction of Bob Link, is arranging a Saturday night
affair that will be one of the most outstanding of many years. “Sanity Rare,” the official Junior Speaking magazine, is
almost in its completed form and will be in the hands of the printers within a short time. Other arrangements
are going forward with utmost regularity and orderliness.

Have you written her yet?

The Book Lovers’ Club held their regular meeting last Friday afternoon with Mrs. Arbuckle. Mrs. Harding read an interesting paper
on Galsworthy while Miss Maud Vincent gave an essay on George Bernard Shaw.
