THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1927

-- Sport Talk -:- News and Views of Wildcat Events

If anyone has had any fears about whether or not Dick Grey will come up to his former self this year on the gridiron, those fears should be gone now. What could we ask of him more than he did Saturday against the Elon Christians? He broke through for long gains consistently, and it looked like he just couldn't be stopped at all. The Wildcats gained altogether 512 yards, and of this number Captain Grey gained 290. He made two of the three extra points and seems to have gotten that famous toe of his back into shape again. It hasn’t gotten started good in the Florida game and in the other two games; but just watch those extra points and field goals mount up from now on. The other backfielders, especially Wilson, Nisbet, and Harrison, also played an unusual game. Or rather, it would be unusual for most players, but for these three it was just what they've been doing the whole year. 

By Raymond Lake

Davidson Holds Edge on Deacons in Games Won
Wildcats Have Won Ten Out of Fifteen Games

Football elevens of Davidson College and Wake Forest, which meet in a great gridiron classic at the World War Memorial Stadium in Greensboro next Saturday, have met upon a football field 15 times within the last 19 years, the two institutions failing to play four years during that period. The Davidson Wildcats have emerged victorious in ten of the battles, scoring 272 points for an average of 17 a game, while the Demon Deacons have won twice, with a total of 70 points for the 15 games, an average of less than five for an encounter. Three of the mixups have been ties, all of them having occurred since 1922, when three of the four games scheduled have resulted in a deadlock. The Wake Forest Baptists won the other one by a margin of one touchdown. For two years in succession the Demon Deacons and Wildcats have left the field with a no-decision rendered. Both games have been played in Charlotte, the first one being a 7 to 7 knot, while Captain Grey and Captain Rackley last year tied the count at three all with a field goal each.

Because of this fact, both teams will be fighting for supremacy Saturday afternoon before one of the largest crowds ever to witness a football encounter in North Carolina. It will be the first game of the Davidson Wildcats with any member of the “Big Five,” and it will mark the first attempt of the Presbyterians to defend the 1926 championship crown, which they are now wearing.

Results of games since 1908 follow:
1908—Wake Forest 4 Davidson 31
1909—No game.
1910—Wake Forest 0 Davidson 32
1911—Wake Forest 0 Davidson 9
1912—Wake Forest 7 Davidson 13
1913—Wake Forest 0 Davidson 6
1914—Wake Forest 6 Davidson 7
1915—Wake Forest 7 Davidson 21
1916—No game.
1917—Wake Forest 7 Davidson 72
1918—No game.
1919—Wake Forest 0 Davidson 21
1920—Wake Forest 7 Davidson 27
1921—Wake Forest 10 Davidson 7
1922—Wake Forest 6 Davidson 6
1923—Wake Forest 6 Davidson 0
1924—No game.
1925—Wake Forest 7 Davidson 7
1926—Wake Forest 3 Davidson 3
Total—Wake Forest 70 Davidson 272
Won by W. F. 2; by Davidson 10; Tied 3.

Lingle Selected to Manage Golf Team

At a meeting on Friday night of those interested in golf, W. L. Lingle was elected manager of the golf team for the year 1927-1928 to succeed Steve McGill, ex-’29, who did not return to school. The team consists of only four men at present. These men are Boyce Martin, Ben Wilson, Arthur Mills, and Walter Lingle. Plans are now under way to arrange a match with the Sedgefield Country Club, of Greensboro, N. C., to be held here October 22nd. Although nothing definite has yet materialized, it is very probable that this match will be held. The team usually consists of six men. Although it now comprises only the four members mentioned above, two more will be selected in the spring from those candidates who are now competing for places. These new men will, of course, be placed before the matches with other colleges. The course is now being put into fine shape. The old first hole has been eliminated for the construction of the new tennis courts, the new hole making the courseeven larger and more suitable for play. At the meeting on Friday night, it was also decided to charge townspeople and faculty members three dollars as fees for use of the college course for a nine months’ period and four dollars for its use during the entire year. This decision will be of great benefit, as sufficient funds will be derived from these sources to maintain properly and gradually to improve the course during the year.

Davidson Fresh Conquer Wofford’s Terrier Pups in Second Game of Year

Wildkittens Score Twice Near Last of Game

POPE STARS

Broken-Field Running and Long Passes Feature Davidson’s March to Victory

As a much desired sequel to the varsity’s 12-2 drubbing of Wofford, came the Wildkittens’ 12-0 victory over the Wofford Fresh last Friday. For the first three quarters, it was a matter of which team could gain the most on exchange of punts. Until Davidson’s rush toward Wofford’s goal, in the last of the third quarter, it appeared that the game was to end in a scoreless tie. For well over two quarters, the first downs made stood at Davidson 2, Wofford 1. Toward the end of the third stanza, the ball went over to Davidson on Wofford’s 47-yard line. McCall, Wildkitten quarter, ripped off 17 yards through the line. On the next play, Pope carried the ball for a 20-yard gain. The quarter ended with the ball on Wofford’s 10-yard line. The fourth quarter witnessed a gallant stand by the Wofford line. In three attempts through the line, Davidson gained only 5 yards. A placement for field goal failed, the ball going to Wofford on her own 20-yard line. On the second play, Wofford kicked, the ball going out of bounds on the 42-yard line. Here Davidson’s steady march for a touchdown started. Pope repeated with 17 yards around end. A pass, Pope to Estridge, added 5 yards. Three attempts through the line were stopped by Wofford. On the fourth down, a pass from Pope to Estridge added 10 yards and a touchdown. A drop-kick for extra point failed. A few minutes later, after Davidson had kicked off to Wofford, the Wildkittens intercepted a pass on the 42-yard line. Estridge and Fraley both gained 17 yards, and, aided by small gains through the line, placed the ball on Wofford’s 2-yard line, where Fraley scored through the line for Davidson’s second touchdown. The try for extra point again failed. The game ended as Pope intercepted an attempted Wofford pass and raced 20 yards to Wofford’s 15-yard line. Breedin, Wofford guard, was easily the outstanding star of either line, being responsible for many losses by breaking through the Davidson line. McCall, Oates, and McIntyre played stellar football for the visitors. Pope was the most brilliant backfield star of the game, repeatedly making long runs. Estridge and Goodykoontz showed up well in the backfield. Davidson’s defense backfield work was prominent, while Foil, guard, and Marrow, tackle, were line features for Davidson.

D. Fresh. Position. W. Fresh
Gilliam .......... L.E. .......... Sale
King ............ L.T. .......... Covington
Oates ........... L.G. .......... McCall
(Continued on page 3)

Player College Td. Ex.Pt. F.G. T’tl.
Jankoski, Duke 9 1 0 55
Adams, Duke 6 0 0 36
Grey, R., Davidson 4 2 1 2
Warren, State 4 0 0 24
Cox, W. F. 2 0 0 13
Adams, State 2 0 0 12
Goodwin, State 2 0 0 12
Childress, State 2 0 0 12
Outen, State 1 1 0 7
Harrison, Davidson 1 0 0 6
Wearn, Davidson 1 0 0 6
Boliche, Duke 1 0 0 6
Lake, Duke 1 0 0 6
Ferrel, Carolina 1 0 0 6
Young, Carolina 1 0 0 6
Lepo, State 1 0 0 6
Ward, Carolina 1 0 0 6
Connely, W. Forest 1 0 0 6
McDowell, State 1 0 0 6
Crum, State 1 0 0 6
James, W. Forest 0 1 1 4
Kelley, Duke 0 2 0 4
McConnel, Dav. 0 0 0 2
Schuler, Carolina 0 0 0 2
Buie, Duke 0 2 0 2
Nesbit, Davidson 0 1 0 1
Whisnant, Carolina 0 1 0 1

Football Fans Anxiously Watch Wildcat Gridders

Wildcats Maintain Clean Slate in First Four Games

Davidson’s Wildcat team, in spite of her four successive victories over the Citadel, Florida, Wofford, and Elon, will be put to a severe test in attempting to continue their triumphant march through the remainder of the 1927 season against such powerful teams as Wake Forest, V. M. I., N. C. State, the University of North Carolina, and Duke. It has been generally admitted by all followers of the Davidson team that the Wildcats have so far surpassed all expectations. Whether or not they will be able to maintain their clean slate throughout the season remains to be seen. So far Davidson has been able to outwit and outclass her opponents, and her goal line remains uncrossed. She has scored 56 points to her opponents’ two, the latter having been made by Wofford on a safety. The approaching game with Wake Forest bids fair to test the real fighting strength of the Wildcats. It will be Davidson’s first encounter with one of North Carolina’s Big Five teams. Although the humiliating defeat which the Demon Deacons suffered at the hands of the State Wolfpack last Thursday would indicate that Wake Forest was not as strong as when she defeated Carolina, Monk and Tex are expecting a hard game. They saw Wake Forest and State play last Friday, and while they don’t seem to expect any particular trouble from the Deacons as long as they stick to straight football, they’re mighty afraid of an aerial attack. Davidson’s victory over Elon last Saturday would seem to give the Wildcats a neat margin over the Baptists, but Coach Younger is still smarting under Davidson’s pitiful effort to break up Elon’s aerial drive, which almost gave them a touchdown, and he’s looking for trouble from Wake Forest in the same way.

OPPONENTS’ SCORES
Citadel 19 Oglethorpe 0
Florida 27 Kentucky 6
Wofford 7 Chattanooga 38
Wake Forest 7 N.C. State 30
V.M.I. 8 Virginia 13
Duke 72 Richmond 0
N. Carolina 6 S. Carolina 14

Seniors Win First Inter-Class Battle

The class basketball season for 1927 was formally ushered in last Monday night when the Seniors defeated the Juniors by a score of 24 to 16 in a well-played, hard-fought game. Both teams played good basketball, and the outcome was uncertain until the last whistle had blown, and the Seniors emerged victorious. At the half, the Juniors were leading by a score of 10 to 4, and it seemed that the game would end with the Juniors on top, but in the second half, the Seniors staged a rally which overcame the lead of the Juniors and gave them the lead, which they held until the end of the game. For the losers, Pat Crawford and Meadows showed up well, both in breaking up the shots of their opponents, and in scoring points for their team. For the Seniors, John Kugler and Caldwell Withers did the best work; these two men passing up and down the floor, and when opportunity afforded, taking pot-shots at the basket for tallies. The next game will be played on Friday night between the Seniors and the Freshmen. This game promises to be very interesting, since the Freshmen have not been seen in action before, and they are expected to have a good team. The following is the line-up for Monday night’s game:

Juniors. Seniors. Positions.
Martin (2) Kugler (9) Right Forward
(Continued on page 3)

However, the Wildcats will be better trained in their defensive tactics by next Saturday. The team will go into their first conflict with one of the Big Five teams in good physical condition. McColgin, who was out of the Elon game on account of sickness, is rapidly recovering. Hampton’s ankle is better, and the rest of the team seems to have escaped the usual injuries.

Basketball

America’s fascinating game, with plenty of speed and thrill; a new situation for every second of play, and constant activity. Play basketball and be physically fit. Basketball, and reasonably priced too. Let us supply you with gym shirts, sweat jerseys, sox, supporters, or any equipment you may need.

The Students Store

It’s yours, why not patronize it?