is] | THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 24, 1927

-- Sport Talk --
News and Views of Wildcat Events
By Raymond Lake

In looking back over the Freshman season, we see a situation which, on its face, looks very gloomy, and to say the least, discouraging. However, on looking farther into the matter, we realize that things are not nearly so bad as they might at first seem, and that something of value may yet turn up. The Freshmen have played five games this year and have won one. This probably sounds very encouraging to the other members of the Big Five who are looking into the future with a selfish and keen eye, and gives them high hopes of downing at least one of their Big Five opponents with comparative ease. Well, it’s a good thing to hitch your wagon to a star, and if the other "Big Fivers" do entertain such fond hopes as the above mentioned, they have done nothing short of hitching their wagon to a star.

There are several reasons for feeling optimistic over the Freshman team. In the first place, we could hardly expect a group of players who had never seen each other before to develop a team that would function properly in one short season. “But,” someone says, “the other Freshman teams which have downed the Wildkittens have not worked together any longer than the Wildkittens have, and have labored under the same difficulties.” The other teams of the state, and of most other states, for that matter, are built around and get their strength from individual players, most of whom are paid to exhibit their prowess on the gridiron, while Davidson teams are built around and get their strength from two of the best coaches in the country and from that old Wildcat Spirit, that spirit of fight that just makes them win even against overwhelming odds. And that spirit can’t be developed in one short season. It takes time to develop it into a team, but when once it is developed, nothing short of overwhelming odds can stop them. Then, too, the Freshmen have not yet had the opportunity of working under Coach Monk. They have been trained by an excellent coach, it is true, and one who knows the game of football, but even if they had been trained under the greatest coach in the country, we would still expect a little more of them after Coach Monk had worked with them for a while.

Davidson Golf Men Lose to Gastonia Club Team
Mills Plays Unusually Good Game, Defeating Champion

In the first competitive match of the year, the Davidson College golf team emerged at the weaker end of an 11 to 4 score. The match was with the able team representing the Gastonia Country Club. Last Saturday morning was the date set for the match to be played. The men who represented the college at this first contest of the season, and the order in which they played, is as follows: Arthur Mills, Ben Wilson, Walter Lingle, and Boyce Martin. Mills, who is a member of the present Sophomore class, and was a member of last year’s team, was the only Davidson golfer to succeed in completely conquering his opponent, though Ben Wilson, who was in the number two position, was able to score upon his opponent, being, however, unable to beat him and thus win the match. Mills played an unusually good game, defeating the Gastonia club champion.

Arrangements are being made at the present time with a view toward having a match with the Statesville Country Club. This club is reputed to have an excellent team, and if secured, the game should prove to be a highly interesting encounter. Another match, between the college faculty and the student team, has been secured and should be played off some time during the latter part of this week.

Some time during the month of December the annual invitation tournament will be held in Greensboro. This contest is open to teams of all of the colleges and universities of this part of the country, and it had been hoped that Davidson would be able to join many of the larger colleges of the state in being present at this time. Lingle, the manager of the team, has, however, announced that the team will not be able to compete this fall, due to several difficulties that have arisen. On the other hand, it was stated that Davidson will enter one of the numerous spring tournaments that are of a nature somewhat similar to this one to be held in Greensboro this winter.

And they say that the new window song is, “As through this world we wind-ow way.”

TUXEDOS
$40 and $50
Efird’s Men's Department. Main Floor

MONK YOUNGER’S ALL-STATE
Left End—Childress, State.
Left Tackle—Phelps, Wake Forest.
Left Guard—Farris, Carolina.
Center—Schwartz, Carolina.
Right Guard—Shuler, Carolina.
Right Tackle—Thompson, Duke.
Right End—Arrowood, Davidson.
Quarterback—Buie, Duke.
Left Half—McDowall, State.
Right Half—Warren, State.
Fullback—Jankoskie, Duke.

TEX TILSON’S ALL-STATE
Left End—Childress, State.
Left Tackle—Phelps, Wake Forest.
Left Guard—McColgan, Davidson.
Center—Schwartz, Carolina.
Right Guard—Farris, Carolina.
Right Tackle—Thompson, Duke.
Right End—Goodwin, State.
Quarterback—Buie, Duke.
Left Half—McDowall, State.
Right Half—Warren, State.
Fullback—Jankoskie, Duke.

Davidson and Duke Work for Third Place in Race

Davidson’s last game will be played Thanksgiving Day, in Richardson Stadium, with Duke as the opponents. Davidson started the season with a well-earned winning streak, but was checked in her drive toward the State Championship by the Wolfpack outfit, and later downed by the Tar Heels at Chapel Hill. Duke was running well for the championship, but had to acknowledge defeat to the same two opponents, and in the same respective order. These losses make the Thanksgiving Day game one that will decide whether the Wildcats or the Blue Devils tie Wake Forest for third place. With last Saturday an open date for the Wildcats, it afforded a period in which some of those on the injured list could recover and get back in for the practices. With this rest the D. C. Boys have been whipped into shape and

Blue Stockings of P. C. Crush Wildkittens, 32-6
Davidson Fresh Team Unable to Get Together

History reversed itself last Friday when “Monk” Mattox took his Freshman charges to Clinton to engage Lonnie McMillan’s P. C. Freshmen. The Blue Stockinged lads ran through, around, and over “Monk’s” boys for a 32 to 6 victory, thereby obtaining ample revenge for their licking at the hands of the Davidsonians last fall. The win was well deserved, for the Wildkittens appeared unable to find themselves and played a ragged game throughout. On the other hand, P. C. played heads-up football, took advantage of every break, and held the Kittens at bay until near the close of the game, when David bucked over for two yards and a touchdown, Davidson's only score. This marker came as the result of a 50-yard march down the field, aided materially by several good passes. P. C. scored in the second quarter, after six-yard line. The Kittens fought hard at this point, and it required the full four downs for P. C. to push the pigskin over. Soon afterwards, a passing attack was started by the Blue Stockings, and another touchdown was forthcoming. TheHalf ended 12-0, Davidson seemed unable to stem the tide in the final session, and allowed their goal to be crossed twice more.

The Wildkittens were hurt by the loss of Pope from the backfield. Captain Goodykoontz played a steady game in spite of his injured knee, while Foil at guard put up his usual scrappy fight. Foil returned one of the kick-offs for 18 yards, finally being forced outside. Blakely, tackle, and Bennet, end, played great games for the winners, these men being in nearly every play and breaking up the Davidson interference to good advantage.

NATIONAL RECORD (Continued from page one)

It was pointed out by an authority on the subject that the prevalent tendency of high schools to give intelligence tests may have made some of the Freshmen “test-wise.” In this case, a person of average intelligence having an idea of what to expect could make a mark far above the average. It is possible that this could have influenced the results in a minor degree. Studies made at the University of Chicago show that a high score in the tests does not insure passage of all work. Those who made a grade of B rather than the A grade constituted the best group of students judged on a basis of classroom work. It was thought that A grade men were relying too much upon native brightness and did not do consistent work. The D grade students rarely attain academic honors, while those of C class only seldom attain scholastic positions. The records show that application does much to level the inequalities of intelligence. Notwithstanding, the present class with its high record should make a respectable showing in scholastic and literary affairs at Davidson, according to officials.

There are still those who say that we will get no varsity material next year from this team, but it is our opinion that quite a bit of material will be discovered. We mentioned the fact last week that the reporter who wrote up the game between the Wildkittens and the Blue Imps stated that Goodykoontz, McCall, and Pope put on one of the best exhibitions of football ever shown on the Duke field by freshman players. Watch these men and several others next year. They’ve got the “stuff,” and Coach Monk can surely tell them how to use it, and that’s all they need.

When in Charlotte make our store your headquarters.

The Vogue
“THE SHOP FOR MEN”
ST TRADE STREET

Davidson Fresh. 0 Oak Ridge 11
Davidson Fresh. 12 Wofford 0
Davidson Fresh. 0 Duke 19
Davidson Fresh. 12 State 19
Davidson Fresh. 6 P. C. 32
Totals, Davidson 30 Opponents 81

THIRTEEN MEN REPORT

Davidson Freshman football season ended November 18th in a very unsuccessful manner. In fact, the whole season was not very good. Out of five tries, the Kittens won only one of them. There is only one thing that could have been worse, and that is to have lost all five of their games.

The Wildkittens began in a rather creditable way by holding the strong Oak Ridge team to an 11 to 0 score. The Prep School boys won only after a hard scrap on a slippery and rainy field. Wofford Fresh were the only boys to fall before the little Davidson team. They fought it out on Richardson field for four quarters, the Wildkittens emerging finally, a winner to the tune of 12 to 0. Nineteen to nothing spelled eleven fighting Blue Devils to the Davidson Freshmen. It was a fight all right, but the wrong end of the score came to the boys in Red and Black. Duke displayed a much better brand of ball to take the game.

Fighting a close game with the State Fresh in their own backyard, the Wildkittens once again came out the loser. This was a good game and well played at times, but could have been much better from the standpoint of both teams. The score ended 19 to 12 in favor of State, after a last rally sewed the game up for the Raleigh boys.

Defeated three out of four times, it looked like the Kittens gave up hope when they met the Presbyterian College of South Carolina. Knowing full well that even a win could not make the victory column amount to three, they handed the game to P. C., 32 to 6. That was not exactly what might be called a “grande finale.”

The Fresh as a whole this year looked good, but could not seem to get together. For a while their plays were run off well, but an off-day would come and all but one was lost. It took the boys from Barium Springs to put the fight into the Freshmen. Fraley and Estridge deserve quite a bit of credit for their scrappy attacks. David, McCall, and Goodykoontz did some flashy running with the ball, while Mason tossed the ball back and held the center of the line. The season’s complete result is as follows:

Date Davidson Duke
22 0 12
23 6 18
24 21 13
25 26 0
26 20 0

MOUNTAIN INSTITUTE (Continued from page one)

Last year part of the sum received at the campaign was given to the orphanage, the other going to Warren Cox. The response made in former years by the student body has been very gratifying to the Y. M. C. A. officials, and it is their hope that this new cause will be well supported.

Since 1868 the Home of Good Shoes

We have quite a selection of Collegiate Styles that appeal to Davidsonians and men who have bought them. And they are at mighty reasonable prices. Next time you're in Charlotte ask to see them.

Charlotte, N.C.
Gilmer-Moore Co.

The states that claim these men as their native sons are five: North Carolina, Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, and Virginia. North Carolina leads with nine men, each of the other states being represented by one.

CHAIRMAN APPOINTED

Staged by Junior talent. Other attractions will be planned in the meantime to fill out the three-day program, which will take the place of the Easter vacation program of former years.