THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 20, 1927

DAVIDSON TEN YEARS AGO

Dr. W. J. Martin is in Chicago attending a meeting of the Association of College Presidents there. He intends to remain in Chicago for several days after the convention is over and expects to return home by way of New York, where he will stop over for a few days.

The Wildcat basketeers opened their season with a win over the Charlotte “Y” to the tune of 60-22. The playing of “Al” Reese and Captain Hengeveld was the feature of the game.

The Peace Contest held in Shearer Hall last Tuesday night was won by W. H. Neal, '17. His paper was on “The International Mind.” This contest was held to choose Davidson’s representative for the State contest at Raleigh in the Spring. The judges were Dr. Harding, Dr. Arbuckle, and Professor Reed.

Fifteen boys remained on the Hill during the Christmas holidays. Although they were not able to go home, they did not have time to get homesick, for there were numerous parties at the homes of the residents of Davidson to which they were invited. They were invited to a Christmas tree at Shearer Hall on the 23rd and their stockings were bountifully filled with candy and tokens.

Dr. J. M. McConnell gave a very interesting lecture last Friday night in the History classroom on “America and the New Epoch.” The address was very much enjoyed by his audience. The lecture was under the auspices of the Polity Club.

The student body was pleased to hear on their return after the Christmas holidays that ground was being broken for the purpose of erecting a new water tank. The new tank is to be 24 feet high by 21 feet wide and is to have a capacity of 80,000 gallons.

In the very near future, tryouts for the varsity debates between Emory College and Davidson will be held. Four representatives from each of the literary societies will meet in the finals to decide the winners of the honor. The tryouts for the Roanoke debate will be held at the same time. The query for both debates is as follows: “Resolved, that employers and employees should be compelled to settle their disputes by arbitration.” Davidson will take the negative in both cases.

The sophomores have announced that their toastmaster for the annual banquet to be held in Charlotte in the near future will be R. O. Harris. He was elected in a recent meeting of the class.

At a meeting of the “D” club several nights ago, fifteen men were awarded letters in football. R. B. Walker was elected captain-elect for next year.

Upon returning to the campus after the Christmas holidays, the student body was shocked to hear of the death of W. L. Morgan, of the class of 1920. Morgan died during the holidays in the college infirmary.

BALLOTS ARE CAST
(Continued from page 1)

Concerning drinking at the meeting Wednesday morning, the floor was thrown open for discussion but no statements were made either pro or con. A ballot on both amendments was then taken. As a result of this vote, Article 5, Section 2, of the Constitution will now read as follows: No student shall be guilty of drinking alcoholic liquors, being under the influence of, or having same in his possession on the campus.

Peru has a postal system that is not run by the government. A private company contracts with the government to do so.

Professional Notices
Phones: Office, 588---Residence, 65-J
DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Anderson Building, Court Street Entrance
Commercial National Bank Building
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Hours: Daily 8 to 5. Evenings 7 to 9. Sundays 8 to 2

Seminary Students Lead Sunday Group

Glen Fry led the Volunteer Band Sunday in its devotional program. Malcolm Calhoun was the speaker of the morning and spoke on the subject: “Present Your Bodies a Living Sacrifice.” Calhoun centered his remarks on the necessity of sacrifice, and the place it held in Christianity. A letter, received from Dr. A. P. Hassell, a missionary stationed at Takamatsu, Japan, was read by Jim McAlpine. The letter pertained to the work of Dr. Hassell and was relative to the work of the band.

In the absence of the president, Bill Hill led the Christian Endeavor Training Class in its regular program. The meeting was prefaced by a devotional period, after which a discussion followed. Deputations to various places were arranged and future work planned. It was decided to postpone further meetings until after examinations. Tom Preer was appointed to prepare the program for the next meeting, which will be held January 30th.

Davidson Receives Trophy

Into the hands of the Davidson College Athletic Association has come one of the most coveted trophies in North Carolina, the past year by the North Carolina “Tarheels,” the state champions of 1925. It is comparatively young, being only four seasons old. It was given two years ago by a generous jewelry establishment of Greensboro, to be held each year by the standing champions of the Tarheel state. The first year the coveted trophy was held by Carolina, the second year by Wake Forest, the third year by Carolina again, and now it is in the possession of the Wildcats, the present champions of North Carolina. The trophy is an exact duplicate of a regular football in size and shape, but is made of silver instead of the customary pigskin. On it is engraved the names of the various colleges.by whom the trophy has been held, the last of which is that of Davidson. It is now on display in the new trophy room in the front part of the office of the Alumni Secretary.

Heating Plant of Eu Hall Disrupted

The Eu Hall heating plant, put out of commission earlier in the year, is destined to remain so for some weeks to come. Not long after cold weather set in, someone accidentally built a fire in the Eu Hall furnace without turning on the water first, with the result that the boiler was badly cracked. During the holidays, just after the parts for the damaged plant had come, the same mistake was made in the Phi Hall, and the plant there rendered “hors de combat” too. As the “Y” rooms need heat every day, it was decided that the latter plant should be repaired first and that in the Eu Hall left until additional parts can be ordered. The plants are identical, having been put in at the same time, during last year, so the exchange of parts could be readily made.

Lord Kelvin invented artificial refrigeration and the Kelvinator derived its name from him. Ants capture the aphides and use them as cows. The aphis produces a sweet fluid.

The University of North Carolina is the oldest State University in America. It was authorized by legislative enactment in 1787 and the first building was started October 12, 1792. Bryn Mawr has a smoking room for its girl students.

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
811, 812, 813, 814 and 815 Professional Building
Charlotte, N. C.
Phones: Office 5060. Residence, 1937-J

The postage on a letter from New York to Virginia in 1792 was 25 cents. The mussel, a fresh-water shellfish found in many United States rivers, furnishes a genuine pearl.

Mrs. James Wharey, of Hendersonville, will spend the remainder of the winter with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle. Miss Sarah Lingle, of Converse, is visiting her daughter, Mrs. W. R. Grey. Mr. and Mrs. Charles Grey and Miss Jean Grey spent the weekend in the home of Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey.

The Music Club had its annual business meeting at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. Mrs. B. D. Daugherty was elected president for the coming year.

Coveted Football Trophy

This is the North Carolina Intercollegiate Football Trophy, now in the possession of the 1926 football champions of North Carolina. The trophy came to Davidson from Chapel Hill, where it has been held for some time.

Ogden and Redhead Speak to Students

The Ministerial Band had a special program conducted by Dunbar Ogden and Jack Redhead, two seminary students from Union Theological Seminary. The President, Greer Davis, opened the meeting. Mr. Redhead spoke first, telling the band what to expect at seminary. He outlined a seminary student’s schedule, his responsibilities, and the necessity of hard work. He also told of the campus, the buildings, and the professors. The spirit that permeated the seminary life was stressed by Mr. Redhead, and he said that, if for nothing else, it was well worth the time spent at seminary to be present and live in that Christian atmosphere.

Mr. Ogden spoke on the joy of preaching Christ Jesus, and Him crucified. He pointed out the scorn and raillery in which the critics held the Cross, but added it was the power of God unto salvation. He presented Christ, the vicarious Sufferer, the Lamb slain, the Saviour, and mentioned the privilege and high position the members of the band had in preaching Him.

The standard gauge for American railways is 4 feet 8.5 inches.

Town News

Dr. C. M. Richards and family went to Columbia, Monday. They will attend the inauguration of Dr. Richards’ brother, J. G. Richards, who was elected governor of South Carolina last summer. Mrs. W. W. Wood and children have returned to Davidson after a visit in West Virginia.

Friends of Professor Beaty will be glad to know he is recovering from his recent illness.

Tom Mix served with the U.S.A. in the Boxer trouble in China and received a medal. A Buffalo prizefighter once knocked out a man in two seconds. Florida has been under the rule of four different flags—Spain, France, England, and the United States. Connecticut has no bigamy laws. The European woodcock carries its young in its feet while flying. There is no radio broadcasting station in Nevada.

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant, 17 S. Tryon St. The Best Places to Eat in Charlotte.

Davidson Theatre
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Monday and Tuesday, Jan. 24th and 25th
Colleen Moore in “Twinkle Toes”

Wednesday and Thursday, Jan. 26th and 27th
Leatrice Joy in “Nobody’s Widow”

Friday, Jan. 28th
Elinor Glynn’s “Love’s Blindness”

Saturday, Jan. 29th
Jackie Coogan in “Johnnie, Get Your Hair Cut”

Monday and Tuesday, Jan. 31st, Feb. 1st
Harold Lloyd in “The Kid Brother”

Wednesday and Thursday, Feb. 2nd and 3rd
Richard Barthelmess in “The White Black Sheep”

Friday, Feb. 4th
“The Perfect Sap,” a First National Picture

Saturday, Feb. 5th
Jack Holt in “The Man of the Forest”

KEEP THOSE GOLDEN MEMORIES
A Glorious Grid Season
Over-Enjoyed Holidays
Never-Forgotten Weekends
Enviable Records
Autographs of Classmates

“When the mystic haze of years transmutes the rollicking pleasure of school days into golden memories, every memento connected with that life will become a priceless nugget in the hands of those who prize them.”

National Memory Books $5.00