THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1927

JOACHIM LECTURE ON INDIA PRAISED BY TESTIMONIALS

Mr. H. H. Joachim, noted author, traveler, and authority on India, who is to speak at Shearer Hall next Wednesday night, is held in very high esteem by those who have heard him, as is shown by the following testimonials from various sources:

National Secretary of the Gideons:
“I heard Mr. Joachim lecture on comparative religions at the Men’s League Convention in Columbus, Ohio, and was much impressed by his thrilling address, which surpassed anything I have heard for years. His English was faultless.”

J. Knox Montgomery, President, Muskingum College, New Concord, Ohio:
“No speaker has so challenged the attention of our student body or so thoroughly gripped them with the mastery of his presentation as did Mr. Joachim when he lectured on comparative religions. It was one of the keenest discussions, as far as its analysis is concerned, that it has been my privilege to hear.”

David Beecroft, President, Scarsdale, N.Y., Congregational Church Men’s Club:
“Mr. Joachim’s lecture on Gandhi was one of the clearest and most logical presentations of what the reformer stands for that I have ever listened to.”

Secretary, Women’s Club, Princeton, N.J.:
“Mr. Joachim speaks with the compelling eloquence of one who loves his subject and must make others love it. His style is vigorously intense, vivid, and his splendidly rounded sentences bear a message that holds the interest of every hearer.”

Ralph D. Wellons, Dean of Tusculum College, Greenville, Tennessee:
“I was for seven years connected with a college in Lucknow, India, and can say without reservation that Mr. Joachim has given one of the most balanced and national discussions of India’s problems that I have heard since leaving that country three years ago. It seems to me that such a lecturer should do much to bring our American people to a real appreciation of their relationships to the peoples of other countries.”

Sarah McMillan Rogers, Coker College, Hartsville, S.C.:
“He impressed his audience by his superb use of language, by his clear, rational and unbiased point of view and his fine sincerity. We were equally charmed by his personality.”

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N.C.

DAVIDSON-FLORIDA GAME (Continued from page 3)
off tackle. Kell went in for Wilson. Bowyer’s pass to Yancey was incomplete. Bono went in at center for Florida; Kirschner out. McEachern intercepted Bowyer’s pass on his own 35-yard line, and returned 20 yards. Baldwin substituted for Middlekauf. Kell gained a yard around end. Flinn got 3 yards through center. Kell added 3 more at left end. Grey attempted to dropkick from Florida’s 35-yard line, but the kick was blocked and recovered by Davidson on Florida’s 35-yard line. Kell fumbled and lost 6 yards. Flinn hit center for 4 yards. Kell made 4 more over tackle as the game ended. Final score: Florida, 0; Davidson, 12.

NEW STUDENTS EXAMINED (Continued from page one)
ed with its poorest students, but the tests are now given to all. Most of the leading schools, colleges and universities of the South have now followed Davidson in this great movement. Three years ago at a meeting of North Carolina College Conference, Dr. Hood introduced the idea of giving these psychology tests to all North Carolina High seniors who were to enter North Carolina schools and colleges. A motion to this effect was passed, and for the past two years these tests conducted under the authority of the state board of education and department of education at the University of North Carolina have been given to high school seniors. The psychological tests

Lieut. Beckett On Duty Again After Operation
Army Officer Returns to Davidson After Prolonged Absence Due to Operation

Lieut. R. C. Beckett has again returned to Davidson as an officer of the Davidson College R.O.T.C. unit, after an absence of several months which was prolonged on account of an operation that he had to undergo last July. Lieutenant Beckett was operated on at the Walter Reed Federal Hospital at Washington, D.C., last July, his operation being one that required some time for recuperation. The remainder of the time not spent in the hospital was spent in and around Washington. This year the tactical officers will remain the same with the exception of company “D.” Lieutenant Otto will be in charge of that company in the absence of Captain Weems. The other officers in charge of other companies are: Company “A,” Captain Daugherty, company “B,” Captain Elkins, and company “C,” Lieutenant Beckett. So far this year, much headway has been made in close order drill, the new school education at the University of North Carolina have been the high school given to seniors. The psychological testsconsist of ten sets of questions involving mathematics, English, geography, history, and other practical subjects. The length of time given for completing each test varies from two to four minutes. The tests are used to determine the student’s speed, accuracy, and intelligence.

The college tests given only to new men should supplement a high school certificate as evidence of their ability. Tests for all new men have been conducted for eight successive years, and the results now furnish a mass of most valuable material for the use of the college in its study of the scholastic phase of student life.

Cullum Speaks to Members of Band

Professor E. J. Cullum, Davidson's new music instructor, was the chief speaker of the day at the weekly Sunday meeting of the Ministerial Band. Aside from his speech, the instructor also played and sang a song. Church hymns were the subject on which the professor spoke. He brought up a phase of the subject, about which most ministers rarely hear, that of which hymns should be sung, and how to sing them. During his very interesting talk, in which he traced the development of the hymn down to the present day, he mentioned that there are only sixteen hymns that can be found in all the standard Protestant hymn books.

Prof. Cullum announced that every Thursday night at 7:30 o'clock, the Y. M. C. A. quartet practice would be held. Anyone is eligible to try out for it. Also, at 8:30 o'clock on the same night every week, he said that he would conduct a class especially for ministerial students on how to choose hymns and how to lead hymn singing. He said, however, that the class was open to anyone and no grades would be given.

No new business was discussed. Mr. Jack A. Barron, ex-'26, was married to Miss Azile Sparks at the First Baptist Church of Morganton, N. C., on July 20th, Rev. W. R. Bradshaw officiating. Mr. and Mrs. Barron will make their home in Morganton, where Mr. Barron is employed as a traveling salesman for the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.

Men are fast learning the manual of arms and how to march in ranks. The first parade was held Wednesday; some mistakes were made, but these will soon be corrected by the officers in charge, and Davidson will be on its way toward another "Distinguished Rating."

Prayer Emphasized by Volunteer Band

The topic for the last meeting of the Volunteer Band was Prayer. R. F. Sloop was the principal speaker of the meeting. He spoke on the general topic of prayer, with special emphasis on its application to the mission field, and its vital importance in the life of the individual. To quote the speaker, “Prayer is one of the mysteries of life, and the biggest mystery of all is that people don’t pray more.” After the talk, the meeting was thrown into an open discussion of prayer and the value of having prayer groups on the campus. It was urged that each member be responsible for the organization of prayer groups on each hall. This has been very successful in the past and much good has been done by them among the students.

The purpose of the Volunteer Band is to further the cause of missions, and that it has been done well in the past is evidenced by the long list of missionaries on the foreign and home fields. A few of these men are Dr. Price, of China, whose son Harry was a most popular man on the Davidson campus, Mr. McIlwaine, and Mr. Hudson. In a recent meeting, the Volunteer Band was addressed by some of the leaders of the “Y,” Jim Appleby, Hugh Arrowood, and others. The band hopes to make its influence as widespread as it is helpful by the books on missions, which may be obtained at the “Y,” and its other activities.

Rev. Thomas Layton Fraser, '23, was married to Miss Ruth Gibson Brown at the Brett-Reed Memorial Presbyterian Church, Sweet Hall, Va., on the afternoon of September 3rd.

By BRIGGS

It Happens in the Best Regulated Families

The Websters come over in the evening for a social call. You ask them if they would like to see the new baby. The Mrs. throws cold water on the idea because the child is asleep. But you carry the point and she gives in on the promise that you'll all be extremely quiet and just look in at the child. You all tip-toe upstairs and are gazing at the sleeping infant breathlessly when Joe suddenly barks like a lion at feeding time and wakes up the baby. You retire to the cellar in disgrace.

It never would have happened if he smoked Old Golds.

We give prompt and satisfactory service.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

FELLOWS! You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, DAVIDSON, N. C.

The Smoother and Better Cigarette ... Not a cough in a carload © 1927, P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760