8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 15, 1927

Town Improved by Pretty New Homes

Since college closed last spring, two beautiful homes have been added to those already here. Professor Fulcher has completed his
home on Woodland Avenue. It is a semi-colonial wooden frame building containing eight rooms, with steam heat. A special study
has been built for private interviews with students.

The manse which is being built on the same property where the old one was, has taken away from the
students a very familiar scene, but one far more beautiful has replaced it. The home will be completed by October
1st. Dr. Moffett and his family will move in as soon as the manse is ready. This home also has
eight rooms with a commodious sleeping porch. It is of the colonial type, made of brick, and is steam equipped.
A private entrance has been specially built for students who wish to see Dr. Moffett in his study to talk
over any affairs which may come up. Dr. Moffett announced from the pulpit on Sunday that he hoped the steps
would be worn smooth by students coming to him for advice and help. These two homes will add materially to
the attractiveness of the streets on which they are located.

FOOTBALL PROSPECTS ARE BRIGHT
(Continued from page one)

A full backfield returned as a foundation to be added to. Wilson, quarterback; Harrison and Grey, halves, and Nisbet, fullback,
make up the rear guard of letter men that returned and make this department of the Red and Black machine
look a great deal better than the line at the beginning of the season. These four men have been doing
work that looks very promising, being somewhat improved as a whole over the shape they were in last year. Captain
Dick Grey is bearing the burden of many a faithful fan who is hoping for him to lead the team
through the mill while he is showing good form on the field while laboring to get ten yards more distance
out of the educated toe and to raise his sights considerably.

Ed Wilson, whose head and steady arm won him fame last year, is studying the situation in a grave mood
while he heaves the pigskin at all angles and with accuracy, is being counted on to be better this year.
Harrison is showing the greatest improvement from last year as he speeds around in the early practices and promises to
be evasive to the arms of the would-be tacklers. Mutt Nisbet, at the fullback position, is driving well in the
practices, and it seems as though he will get off to a good season. Sam Black is showing up well
with a powerful drive, and will be counted upon for his yardage in the pinch. Kell, Matthews, and Flynn are
the other men who are the most promising in the backfield.

In the line, Jim Grey has been shifted to the center position, and his stubborn work at guard last season
makes him a formidable man at this position. DeArmon, from the freshman team, is showing up fairly well as a
center. Laws and Melton, veterans, will probably hold down the guard positions, making this one of the best parts of
the line. McConnell, Leftwich, Baker, and Hampton, all new men, are fighting for the tackles and exhibiting no mean ability.
Arrowood, a letter man, will probably take care of one of the ends, while Wearn and McEachern are hopeful candidates
for this position. Other linemen who are making bids for berths are McGeachy, end, Carson and Maulden, tackles, Hunt and
Smith, guards. The prospects have brightened somewhat since the practice began, and aside from the regular pre-season injuries, the men
are rounding into good shape and the opening game will probably see one of the heaviest Wildcat teams to take
the field in the past few years.

Many Professors Spend Vacation in Travel and Study Here and Abroad

Members of Faculty Scattered from Europe to the Pacific During the Summer

Quite a number of Davidson professors have improved greatly during the past summer in travel or in study at other
institutions of learning. Among the former were Dr. G. R. Watts, Dr. J. L. Douglass, and Prof. E. J. Erwin,
all of whom spent considerable time abroad, both in travel and special study. Mrs. Erwin met Prof. Erwin in New
York, where they spent some time. Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Vowles and son, Richard, were visiting relatives in South
Dakota for a considerable part of the summer. Prof. D. R. McGrew and family made

“Y” Column

In this first Y column of the year, the entire organization of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. wishes to
welcome every member of the student body, whether old or new men, to give them a friendly greeting and once
again tell them that in the Y they can find a place that will make their life at Davidson enjoyable
and profitable, and at the same time render invaluable service to their fellowman. The whole corps of workers have taken
up their duties, and led by a very able Secretary and President, aided by one of the most efficient Cabinets
ever assembled, the Y stands ready to begin the most prosperous year of service that it has ever experienced in
its history. Make the Y your friend, and you will be repaid many times for what you put into it.

New Tennis Courts Under Construction

Fourteen new tennis courts are now in the process of construction on the local campus, just on the edge of
the golf links, these courts to be ready for use by spring. This addition will double the present number, which
are entirely inadequate for the Davidson student body at spring.

CAROLINA THEATRE
Charlotte, N. C.

SPECIAL MIDNIGHT SHOW
This Sunday Nite, Sept. 18 at 1 minute past 12
BEBE DANIELS in “Swim, Girl, Swim”
EXTRA! Stage Attraction
BLUE STEELE and his 11 Piece Jazz Orchestra
BOYS, THEY ARE HOT!

Scientists declare that color-blind woman is a great rarity.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

MIDNIGHT SUNDAY NIGHT 12:01 O’CLOCK
FEATURING “The Big Parade”
with John Gilbert - Renee Adoree - Karl Dane

The second Vesper service of the year will be led by Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, anExtended automobile trip through Canada
and the West. Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, a very prominent man, and Prof. and Mrs. A.
Currie and their two daughters, Misses Letitia and Lucy Martin, recently returned from an automobile trip through the East where
they spent some time with relatives in Connecticut. Dr. and Mrs. J. M. McConnell and their two sons, Joe and
John D., spent the summer at Camp Carolina in Brevard, N.C. Mr. J. R. Williams also spent some time there.
Prof. and Mrs. H. C. Fulcher and family arrived in Davidson this last week from Virginia, where they spent the
summer. Dr. M. E. Sentelle visited relatives and friends in Tennessee. Prof. and Mrs. W. N. Mebane and their little
daughter returned to Davidson after spending the summer with relatives in Virginia. Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin and their
daughters, Misses Kitty and Gene, spent some time at Montreat. Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglas and their children spent
last week with relatives and friends in Raeford, N.C. Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle and family reached Davidson recently
from their summer home in Lewisburg, W.Va. Prof. J. H. Davis, Jr., who spent the summer at Montreat, arrived in
Davidson recently. He will remain a short time before leaving for the University of Chicago, where he will study this
winter. Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey spent several weeks in Asheville with their daughter, Mrs. B. W. Romefelt. Among
those attending educational institutions was Dr. C. K. Brown, who completed work on his Ph.D. degree at Columbia University, New
York, this summer. Dr. Brown deserves distinction since he is one of the youngest to receive this degree. He graduated
from Davidson in 1921. Dr. J. W. McConnell attended the Mayo Clinic in St. Paul, Minn. Mrs. McConnell and their
son, Courtney, preceded him by several days, coming home from Maryland. Prof. F. L. Blythe spent several weeks studying Spanish
at Middlebury College in Middlebury, Vermont. Dr. F. K. Fleagle and Mr. F. W. Hengeveld took courses at the University
of Chicago. Dr. and Mrs. E. T. Shewmake and their children have returned from Harrisonburg, Va., where Dr. Shewmake taught
in the Harrisonburg Normal School for eleven weeks.

Russell Tucker, ex-'28, of Reidsville, was painfully injured last Saturday night when a roadster in which he was riding with
John H. Watt, a former University of North Carolina student, ran down a 10-foot embankment on the Thomasville Road and
was wrecked against a barn at the rear of a farmer's dwelling. Attending surgeons expressed an opinion that Tucker's injuries
would not prove serious. The two boys were returning to their home at the time of the accident and, according
to their statements, were blinded by the headlights of another car as they attempted to round a curve on the
highway near the Guilford County line. Their car left the road, ran down the embankment, around a man's house, and
finally crashed into the barn, throwing both boys from the car. Tucker's companion was said to have suffered serious injuries
to his back.

The Y has already made plans for the Fall Life Work Campaign this year and secured the services of one
of the most prominent leaders of the Church in the South, Dr. Vander Meulen, President of Louisville Seminary. Dr. Vander
Meulen was here last year and the student body will remember how able a speaker and preacher he is. More
later about these services.

The tennis courts have been improved this summer, having had new backstops erected all around and the grounds graded and
rolled. These, however, will be torn up and grass set out when the new courts are ready for use, in
another movement to further beautify the campus and especially that section around Chambers building. With the location of the new
courts adjoining the golf course, it will mean that all sports will be confined entirely to the rear of the
campus where adequate facilities have been and are now being provided.

DAUGHERTY APPOINTS (Continued from page 1)
Withers, S. M., cadet first lieutenant; Westbrook, D. O., cadet first lieutenant; Geer, B. H. O., cadet first sergeant. Cadet
Sergeants: Gibson, O. T., Phifer, W. E. Company “A”—Bradford, W. B., cadet captain; Calhoun, R. G., cadet first lieutenant; Harmon,
J. P., cadet first lieutenant; Vance, S. W., cadet second lieutenant; Houck, G. F., cadet second lieutenant; Archie, W. C.,
cadet first sergeant. Cadet Sergeants: Black, S. L., Cashion, H. D., Hill, T. E., Smith, A. F., Bradley, J. E.,
Allison, J. S., Crawford, G. W., Strong, W. M. Company “B”—Lake, J., cadet captain; Gudger, J. M., cadet first lieutenant;
Taylor, C. W., cadet first lieutenant; Glenn, R. A., cadet second lieutenant; Cathey, C. O., cadet second lieutenant; Thompson, R.
M., cadet second lieutenant; Flinn, R. C., cadet first sergeant. Cadet Sergeants: Embry, J. T., Green, G. H., Littlejohn, F.
M., Frye, J. C., Herriot, G. E., Flythe, W. H., Kirkland, L. D., Knox, H. A., Gibson, B. F. Company
“C” (Best drilled company last year)—O’Neal, M. C., cadet captain; Link, R. S., cadet first lieutenant; Cathey, W. A., cadet
first lieutenant; Hagood, G. B., cadet second lieutenant; Brooks, G. S., cadet second lieutenant; Miller, B. W., cadet second lieutenant;
McGill, S. W., cadet first sergeant. Cadet Sergeants: Gant, R. M., Preston, J. Z., Long, J. A., Long, W. M.,
Martin, D. F., Maddox, K. P., McConnell, E. Riggs, Patton, E., McBryde, J. P. Company “D”—Trabue, C. C., cadet captain;
Lowrance, R. S., cadet first lieutenant; Walton, P. W., cadet first lieutenant; Smith, A. M., cadet first lieutenant; Thrower, P.
P., cadet second lieutenant; Wildman, J. H., cadet second lieutenant; King, M. M., cadet first sergeant. Cadet Sergeants: Regen, W.
M., Wadsworth, L. C., Price, G. A., Rice, J. L., Sloop, R. F., Whitley, R. F., Wildman, C. V., Thomas,
R. H., Sample, J. M.

Ben Mussolini receives a salary of about $400 a month.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE—THE BEST OF COOKING

THAD L. TATE BARBER SHOP
S. College St., Charlotte, N.C.
A cordial invitation is extended to all Davidson men to visit us for prompt, efficient, and courteous work.

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY AND TUESDAY: "Hula" with Clara Bow
WEDNESDAY: George Bancroft, Chester Conklin in "Tell it to Sweeney"
THURSDAY: "Ben Hur" will be here in September 26th
FRIDAY: Hobart Bosworth in "The Bloodship"
SATURDAY: Tim McCoy in a Metropolitan Western "Annie Laurie"
"The Big Parade" is coming in October.
