THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 15, 1927

———

ALUMNI NOTES

Dr. A. A. McGeachy, '91, prominent Charlotte pastor, who returned from a European tour, is seriously ill. He is confined
to his bed at his home and will be unable to do active pastorate work until January 1st.

Davidsonian in Auto Accident.

George Bascomb Sorrells, '23, narrowly escaped serious injury when he turned a roadster in which he was driving from Charlotte
to Columbia down a steep embankment last Tuesday evening near Chester, S.C., in an effort to prevent a head-on collision
between his car and a small coupe. Mr. Sorrells, according to news dispatches, was coasting around a curve when he
came suddenly upon the light coupe, headed in the opposite direction and blocking the roadway. In the small coupe were
Mr. and Mrs. Erwin Christy, of Chester, and their small baby. Mr. Sorrell's efforts to prevent a collision were hardly
less than heroic, in view of the fact that he endangered his own life by turning his car down the
steep embankment. A large boulder at the foot of the embankment caused Mr. Sorrell's car to turn completely over, doing
serious damage to the machine.

Some More About Winning $18.00

All who have bought $5 tickets are eligible to turn a name in for this club, and any who wish
to get in on the prize must buy a $5 ticket and turn their proposed name in to either W.
K. Gwin or M. P. Crawford by next Monday at 6 P.M. The name chosen will win two $5 tickets
and the next best will win one. The winners will be announced in the next issue of this paper. The
club is run entirely by Davidson students and every suit is inspected before being sent out. Give us a trial,
at least. Prompt delivery and excellent work.

The U-Name-It Pressing Club
Below the Hotel
DRY CLEANING PRESSING

Davidson Alumni Take Lead at Mayo’s Clinic

Skilled Surgeons and Physicians at Famous Clinic

Former Davidson Students

Dr. J. W. McConnell, '02, who is a member of the faculty and college physician, has recently returned to Davidson
from Rochester, Minn., where he was entertained by a number of Davidson alumni, members of the staff at the famous
Mayo’s Clinic. Dr. McConnell tells interesting tales of his observations at the Clinic in Rochester, and of the work being
done by Davidson alumni there. Among the Davidson alumni serving at the Clinic are:

Dr. Fred W. Rankin, '02, who is considered one of the most skillful surgeons in the world. He is a
member of the staff and is the son-in-law of Dr. Charles Mayo. During the World War, he was in active
surgical service at Chateau-Thierry, the Argonne, etc.

Dr. Porter P. Vinson, '09, who is also a member of the permanent staff of the Clinic, and is recognized
as an authority on thoracic work. He has published numerous papers in medical journals on bronchoscopic and esophageal work. He
served in Italy during the war with great distinction.

Dr. Arch M. McKeithan, '16, who is completing three years of service as a fellow in surgery at the Clinic.
Dr. McKeithan is considered by the authorities at Mayo’s as a young surgeon of brilliant promise. (He was a star
member of the Wildcat football machine during his college days at Davidson.)

Dr. Louis P. Good, '19, also a graduate of Johns Hopkins in the class of '26, is in surgical service
at Mayo’s, just beginning a three-year fellowship.

Dr. James W. Moore, '06, is another Davidson alumnus making a name for himself in medicine. He is professor of
pathology in the University of Louisville. During his days at Davidson, Dr. Moore, who was affectionately known as “Farmer” Moore
by his college-mates, was an outstanding athlete, having served for four years on both the baseball and football teams.

Personal

Rev. Coyte Hunter, '19, pastor of the Presbyterian Church, North of Raleigh, and chaplain of the American Legion post there,
has been appointed by Gen. A.J. Bowley as chaplain in the Chaplains’ Reserve Corps with the rank of lieutenant and
was assigned to the Eighty-First Division headquarters.

J. F. Hurley, '93, editor of The Salisbury Post, was this summer selected as chairman of the Rowan County Board
of Education. In editorial comment, he was described as fair in all his dealings with school affairs.

Alumni who visited the office of the Alumni Secretary during the summer were Dr. C. B. Sanders, '98, of Louisville,
Ky.; S. W. Moore, '26, of Mt. Kisco, N.Y.; R. K. Shaw, Jr., '26, of Boone; Rev. J. K. Fleming,
'19, of Thomasville, N.C.; J. G. Anderson, Jr., '06, of Tampa, Fla.; J. P. Hendrix, '25, of Greensboro; J. B.
McCallum, Jr., '23, of Maxton; Z. N. Holler, '19, of Quincy, Fla.; '24, of Boston, Mass.; Rogers Brown, Jr., '24,
of Chattanooga, Tenn.; R. H. Ratchford, ex-'27, of Gastonia; Dr. W. H. Sharpe, '23, of DeFuniak Springs, Fla.; J. A.
Thompson, '25, of Wake Forest; J. R. Earnest, '25, of Fort Defiance, Va. There have been many others on the
campus, but these are enrolled on the alumni registry that is always open in the secretary’s office.

Rev. Robt. T. L. Liston, '20, will be an assistant in the department of Hebrew andOld Testament interpretation at Richmond
Theological Seminary this year. He has recently returned from Scotland, where he has been studying. Keithan is a graduate of
Johns Hopkins, a member of the surgical staff at Mayo’s Clinic, and a Davidson graduate prominent in the field of
surgery.

"Conscientious and fair in"

L. C. R. Deck, ex-’27, of Atlanta, Ga.; '22, of Quincy, Fla.; A. '07, of Sanford, Fla.; J. J. Love,
'22, of Louisville, Ky.; E. M. McKellar, '13, of Tallahassee, Fla.; C. B.

Harllee Branch Returns to Aid in Alumni and Publicity Departments

Will Assist Ernest Milton in Alumni Work

RECENT GRADUATE

Alumni and Publicity Departments Have Increased Scope of Service to College

Harllee Branch, Jr., of Atlanta, Ga., prominent graduate in the class of 1927, was elected last June by the Alumni
Council of the General Alumni Association of Davidson College as assistant alumni secretary, and having accepted this position, has taken
up his duties. The Alumni Council and the association as a whole consider themselves very fortunate in obtaining the services
of one of the most outstanding seniors of last year’s class. His brilliant record in journalistic and forensic activities is
well known to members of the three upper classes.

Early in his four years at Davidson he was recognized as a writer of keen intellect and as a speaker
of marked ability. He served in many capacities as a journalist, but the monument to his efforts rests in his
excellent editorship of The Davidsonian last year, his editorials being chosen as the best written by collegiate editors in North
Carolina. For three years Mr. Branch was an intercollegiate debater, having represented the college against some of the most formidable
foes of the North and South, and came out successful. He won both the Junior and Senior oratorical contests and
was class orator last June, and in many other ways showed his genius on the platform.

Mr. Branch is particularly qualified for this type of work through his ability to speak and to write, but in
addition, he was a recognized leader on the campus, and such leadership will characterize his work with alumni. While a
student he was elected a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. Many other honors were bestowed upon him indicating his outstanding
prominence in many phases of college life.

Alumni work at Davidson is still in an infant state, having been established last year when Ernest Milton, ’26, was
elected alumni secretary. Under his directorship, the value of alumni interest was soon recognized. The combination of alumni activity and
publicity for the college in the same office was recognized as beyond the scope of one person if either was
to be effective, and as a result, the Alumni Council, which was established in June to direct the interests of
the General Alumni Association, chose Mr. Branch as assistant secretary. These two men have collaborated on an intensive program of
publicity and alumni expansion, and from time to time during the coming year will put into effect measures which will
be of vital importance to every alumnus of Davidson.

McCluer, ’24, who has obtained his master’s degree from the University of North Carolina, will be assistant chemistry professor at
Clemson College this year.

Fresh Country Vegetables

STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES

Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders

BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE

MORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Shelby T. McCloy, ’18, former Rhodes scholar with a degree of Litt. B. from Oxford, will be an instructor in
history at Duke University this year after a period of graduate study at Columbia University.

NEW STUDENTS ARE ENTERTAINED
(Continued from page 1)

The wonderful success of the reception was due to the efforts of Boyce Martin, the chairman of the entertainment committee
of the Y. M. C. A., aided by the remainder of the “Y” Cabinet and also by Mrs. Hengeveld and
Miss Hood. Many thanks are due to these members of the “Y” Cabinet and to the others for this delightful
occasion, which has meant so much to Davidson men and has become an annual affair.

Over seven hundred men died in New York last year from poisoned liquor.

FOR EXCELLENT SHOE REPAIRING SEE E. A. FRYE

Prices in France are estimated to be seven times higher than before the war.

A NEW and GREATER FALL SEASON Is Now On and You Will Find Our Stock Replete with Clothing, Shoes and
Furnishings of the better kind, the styles of which have been approved by college men of the great universities and
the fashion centers of the world.

You Are Cordially Invited to Inspect Our Offerings

Tate-Brown Co.

When Tests Come

Nothing is so helpful in preparing for tests as good full notes. You'll appreciate notes. At your store, you'll find
notebooks of all sizes from diminutive pocket pads to enormous loose-leaf folders. The prices are right, too. Non-fadable inks to
make those notes permanent.

Students Store
“Owned and Operated by the Students”
