J 7 Ne: : PA : ~ Z ] THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 15, 1927

Much Speculation Evoked by Appearance of New Edition of Linford

For the benefit of those few who have not had an opportunity to see the new Ford, the following is a description of the car, as given by the Woodson (Tex.) Reporter:

The new Ford product will be known as the Linford, taking its name from Abraham Lincoln, its founder, and Henry Ford, its manufacturer. The car will be equipped with a running gear, engine, body, gasoline tank, radiator, and other accessories usual to other automobiles. The wheels, of which there will be four, will be set on axles and will turn round and round, forward or backward, depending on the choice and skill of the driver.

On the extreme front end, the car will be equipped with a radiator, which will serve as a reservoir for water with which to water the road. The front of the radiator will be meshed so as to be an excellent smasher of bugs, insects, other people’s chickens, and the like. Situated somewhere on the car will be a gasoline tank which will contain a certain number of gallons of gasoline, or any liquid sold as gasoline by filling stations. A lesser number of gallons can be used if desired.

All seats will be equipped with cushions of more or less softness. On the touring and sedan model, the rear seat will be placed directly behind the front seat. Both seats will be protected from sun, rain, etc., by a top. In front of the front seat and behind the radiator will be placed a windshield which will serve as a barometer. When it is raining, the windshield will become smeared with mud, water, etc., from passing vehicles.

The car will be guided by a steering wheel which will turn the car to the right or left, but never both ways at the same time. Entrance to the car may be gained through doors cut somewhere in the body, or, if desired, by climbing over. The sedan and coupe models will be closed cars, and the touring cars and roadsters will be open cars. The engine of the car will be usual in design and equipped with gears, rings, pistons, cylinders, spark plugs, wires, and other doodads.

The car will be equipped with pneumatic tires, which will be placed over the wheels, tending to give the car a soft, airy, easy-riding feeling.

STUDENTS MAKE (Continued from page 1)

used for needy mountain boys, and that help shall also be given to the other institutions that make up the mountain mission at Banner Elk. These are: the Lees-McRae Institute, the Grandfather Orphanage, and the Grace Hospital.

It will also be remembered that the money contributed by the Davidson students in the mission campaigns for the past four or five years has gone to aid Warren Cox in his work in China, but because of his return to America, the “Y” cabinet has decided on the Plumtree Boys’ School as the recipient of its gifts.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

Students Donate Cast-Off Clothes to Mountaineers

Aided By Sale of Old Clothing Help Educational Activities at Crossnore

Money obtained from the sale of the old clothes collected yesterday will be turned into school buildings and education for the mountain people of the state. The Y. M. C. A. sponsors every year a collection of cast-off clothing to send to Crossnore, a town near Blowing Rock, N.C. Early in 1913, Mrs. Mary Martin Sloop, sister to Dr. W. J. Martin, began a system of collecting old garments in various cities and selling these at cheap prices to the mountain people. Her work has resulted in the establishment of a school, two churches, a post office, electric lights, a community club, securing of a trained nurse, good roads, and a co-operative cheese factory at Crossnore. Through her efforts, the population in the community has increased from 23 in 1913 to well over a thousand.

The old clothes plan originated when Mrs. Sloop received some clothes from consideration of the members of the class. The Wildcat quint has been practicing hard for its initial game with the Salisbury “Y” stars Saturday. This team always is a strong one, and it will take good and fast

Seniors Appointed to Decide on Gift

The student body awaits the announcement of the Senior class gift with a great deal of interest as the presentation of a gift from the outgoing class as a whole to its Alma Mater has become a custom of general acceptance among all schools and colleges. Davidson classes of yore have upheld their standards very well indeed, as is evidenced by campus seats, ticket booth, and other useful things, and it is expected that the present group of seniors will present a gift thoroughly measuring up to those of previous times. A committee composed of Bob Platt, Boyce Martin, J. S. McAllister, and Bob Link has been appointed to consider a suitable gift and this committee will meet in the near future, probably this week, under the leadership of Bob Platt, its chairman, to formulate a report for the consideration of the members of the class.

Regular Meetings For Frats at Duke

Durham, Dec. 14, (CP)—By order of the Pan-Hellenic council, all fraternities at Duke will have Monday night as the time for regular meetings.Meetings, and all other meetings, that have formerly been held on that night will be changed. This decision has been reached to clear up conflicts which many of the fraternity meetings caused with other meetings. Under the plan as adopted, there will be no conflicts in either social or honorary fraternity meetings. The fraternities which come under this regulation are: Phi Delta, Sigma Chi, Kappa Sigma, Alpha Tau Omega, Kappa Alpha, Chi Tau, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Lambda Chi Alpha, Delta Sigma Phi, Pi Kappa Phi.

JUNIOR SPEAKING must be a one-act play, comedy skit, musical comedy, or dramatic presentation of suitable nature for the occasion. (2) It must be written by a member of the present Junior class. (3) All manuscripts must be in by 12 o'clock, February 20, 1928. They may be handed in to any member of the committee. (4) The time of presentation of work on the part of the Wildcats to come, the team has been showing up well and promises to give the visitors from Salisbury a fast and strong opposition. McAulay, the contribution should be not less than 30 minutes and not more than 45 minutes. (5) For any contribution selected for use by the committee, a prize of ten dollars will be awarded. (6) The contributions shall be judged by a committee consisting of two seniors and one faculty member. Manuscripts must be typewritten. (7) All contributions must be typewritten. A number of members of the class of '29 are planning to enter the contest, and the committee is expecting some good material to be used in the program next spring.

Glee Club (Continued from page 1) Glee Club on each of its three concerts was divided into two parts. Part one, first number, “College Ties,” by the entire Glee Club. Second on the program were two numbers by the Concert Orchestra, “Raymond Overture” and “Minuet in G,” by Thomas and Beethoven, respectively. After this, two selections were rendered by the ensemble, “The Bell Man,” by Forsyth, and “The Brownses,” by Leoni-Stebbins. The next feature was a selected baritone solo by R. S. Lowrance; following the solo, the “Sunnyland Serenaders” gave several selections, “The Broken Melody,” by Sibelius, and “Bend Low Oh Dusky Night,” by Underhill. The Sunnyland Serenaders were immediately preceded by some popular songs by Mr. Wilson, soloist, and Mr. Mobley, accompanist. The Wildcat Quartet, composed of Messrs. Gray, Lowrance, Foster, and Thompson, rendered a few numbers. Following the quartet, Mr. Ramseur gave a selected saw novelty. As the concluding number of the program, the entire Glee Club presented two numbers, “Mother's Boy,” by Towner, and “O, Davidson,” by B. E. Shields.

NINETEEN FOOTBALL MEN (Continued from page 1) Kannapolis; J. P. Harmon, Bunnlevel, N.C.; J. L. Robinson, Jr., Gastonia, N.C. At the same meeting of the council, the announcement of the awarding of the cross-country monograms was made, and the list of Freshmen winning the Freshman numeral was announced. Cross-country monograms were awarded to Lafferty, Rome, Ga., and T. R. Nunan, Atlanta, Ga.

To smoke wisely and well, choose Camels. There’s an irresistible reason for choosing this famous cigarette. Not for its popularity alone, but for that superior quality that produces it. Camel wins its prestige with modern smokers by forthright value. It is rolled of the choicest tobaccos that money can buy, and its blending is the taste and fragrance triumph of tobacco science. The Camel smoker is tobacco fit. He has the best, with no scrimping or denial of cost. Select Camel for smoking pleasure, and you'll join distinguished company. Particular, modern smokers have elected it on the principle of superiority. “Have a Camel!” 

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C. © 1927