December 6, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

SOCIAL NEWS

Misses Mary and Lizzie Young spent Thanksgiving in Concord.

Mrs. John P. Williams entertained with a reception Saturday afternoon at her home in honor of her aunt, Mrs. Graham, of Buffalo, New York.

The American Legion Auxiliary held a Japanese fair in the Civic League Hall Saturday afternoon. The proceeds of the sales will go for the soldiers at Oteen, N.C.

Miss Elizabeth Lilly of Winston Salem spent the weekend as a guest of Miss Jean Martin.

Miss Sophie Richards spent Thanksgiving and the weekend with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards.

Dr. and Mrs. Martin, and Miss Jean Martin went to Great Falls, S.C. for Thanksgiving.

Drs. J. L. and J. M. Douglas and sister spent Thanksgiving in Chester, S.C.

The Civic League held a bazaar at the Civic League Hall last Tuesday.

Miss Mary Hamilton and Miss Sarah Withers from Converse College spent Thanksgiving at home with their parents.

The Book-Lovers Club met with Miss Julia Johnson Friday afternoon.

Prof. Archibald Currie and Mrs. Currie were the guests of the Textile Association at the Carolina Inn in Pinehurst, N.C. where Prof. Currie was the speaker at the banquet.

Dr. C. M. Richards and two nephews, Marion Hunter, and Marion McCallum spent Thanksgiving day in Dillon, S.C.

Officers Selected In Literary Society

The Philanthropic Society elected its officers for the second term at the meeting which was held on the 26th. The following men were elected: President, R. S. Grady; Vice-president, R. T. Ellett; Secretary, J. W. McCutchan; First Critic, Frank Hall; Second Critic, Zeb Russell; Supervisors, Charles Kraemer and Albert McClure.

Russell Munan made the feature talk of the program of the Eumenean Literary Society, on November the 26th. His subject was “Why Davidson Should Be Made Co-educational.” Current events, several of which were of local interest, were given by M. E. Love.

The subject for debate was “Resolved that Academic Credit Should be Given for Literary Society Work.” J. T. Welch and J. Matthews of the affirmative were opposed by C. N. Burch and J. F. Preston of the negative. A vote on the merits of the debate resulted in a tie.

A report was presented by the committee on the revision of the constitution.

VOLUNTEER GROUP HEARS FROM PRICE

The Volunteer Band met at one-thirty Sunday in the “Y” room. R. P. Davis led the devotionals. The president, Glenn Frye, read a letter from Frank Price, missionary in China, in which he spoke of the conditions in China. The letter went on to say that the revolution is really beneficial to China, and spoke of the history being made now, which would be read and seen in the future. Newspapers are increasing and roads are being built. He is hopeful for the future of China and mentioned that a Chinaman had told him that schools would be enlarged and courses in science introduced. There are many civic improvements. He is not of the opinion that Christianity will be accepted at once, and goes on to say that now is America’s greatest opportunity to help them. All the schools are not being closed because of the revolution, and there is a very pronounced religious interest among the students. Sunday School work is being done everywhere. He said that the Chinese churches are doing a wonderful work, and that China sent a strong delegation to the conference at Jerusalem. His mother and father will start to work again in Nanking before long. They have been together there for a month.

The Volunteer Band has a display of books on foreign missions in the library and “Y” room, which will remain throughout December. A business meeting followed in which the constitution was read and a committee was appointed to propose some needed changes. The deputations committee was asked to arrange for deputations at once. Officers are to be elected at the first meeting after Christmas. Glenn Frye tendered his resignation as president. It was accepted with the provision that he continue in office until after Christmas. The program committee was asked to prepare programs now for all the meetings until Christmas. The Band appropriated the money, which it had earned, for the purchase of literature. A committee composed of W. M. Belk, Chairman; H. L. Carr and H. H. Banks was appointed to distribute literature.

In Past Decisions Five Davidson Men Have Been Chosen Rhodes Scholars

Seven Davidson Men Apply for Scholarship for This Year

December 8 Davidson students and alumni will go before the committees of three states Saturday, Dec. 8, to be examined for appointment to the Cecil Rhodes Scholarship of Oxford. The examination is not in the form of questioning but rather an interview between the committee and applicant.

From a total of fourteen students and alumni applying through Davidson, the college committee selected seven men to represent the college in their respective states. As only three men from one college can apply in each state, the selections of the committee were as follows: H. B. Arbuckle, '28, M. T. Gilmour, ’29, and E. Riggs McConnell, '29, who will apply in their resident state, North Carolina. D. H. Howard, '28, T. E. Hill, '28, W. L. McColgan, '29, applying in Virginia, G. A. Fry will apply in South Carolina.

Five Former Rhodes Men

In reminiscence, it is interesting to note that Davidson furnished a comparatively large number of Rhodes Scholars in the past, since five of her sons have been selected to receive this honor. These men are Ben R. Lacy, Jr., S. T. McCloy, W. P. Mills, Robert Davidson, and MacDowell Richards. A short resume of the life of each follows.

Ben R. Lacy, Jr., '06

Dr. Benjamin Rice Lacy, Jr., graduate of Davidson College, Rhodes scholar, graduate of Union Theological Seminary, distinguished chaplain in the World War, and former pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga., was elected president of Union Theological Seminary in 1926. Dr. Lacy entered Davidson in the fall of 1902. While here he participated in all forms of athletics, making his letter in football, basketball, and baseball. He took a great interest in college activities and was an outstanding man on the campus. He was a member of the Eumenean literary society, and belonged to the Kappa Alpha fraternity. After graduating with honor he accepted a position as Professor at The Donald Frazer school in Decatur, Ga.

He was given the Rhodes Scholarship in 1908, being the first man to be chosen from Davidson. Finishing Oxford in 1910 he entered Union. At his graduation there he received the Moses D. Hoge fellowship which is the highest honor given by that institution.

With such a record to his credit it is not surprising that he served valiantly in the World War. While serving as chaplain in the 113th Artillery of the 30th Division he was cited for bravery in administering first aid under shell fire. In 1919 he was given the pastorate of the Central Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, where he served until his election to the presidency of Union in 1926.

S. T. McCoy, ’18

Mr. S. T. McCloy, of Monticello, Arkansas,received the Rhodes Schol-

JUNIORS TO PRESENT
(Continued from page 1)

one event follows another without a curtain pause. One of the specialty numbers will be the Gastonia quartet, which has sung over the radio several times, another will be a special clog dance, and another will be a musical recitation. Tickets will be put on sale during the early part of the week preceding the performance. According to the president of the class, the class is expecting a sell-out of Sherer Hall for the entertainment.

Bath Room Vocalists
Urbana, Ill, Dec. 6.—Prof. F. R. Watson of the University of Illinois Physics department, an expert in acoustics, explains why persons so often are bathroom concertists. It’s because the bathroom is such a good reproducer of the voice, and the singer hears it more plainly than elsewhere.

College a Failure
Drake Delphic, Dec. 6—American colleges are failing to accomplish the goal for which they aim according to Clarence Darrow, internationally famous criminal lawyer. Darrow was interviewed by the editor of the Delphic during his visit to Des Moines recently. “The thing I like best about colleges is that they furnish a good time for the people attending. We only live once and why shouldn’t we enjoy life while we are here?” said the famous lawyer.

Mr. McCloy entered Davidson College in 1914, and graduated in 1918. While here he was a member of the varsity track team, an active literary society worker, and was on the Y. M. C. A. cabinet and The Davidsonian staff. He also won the Bible medal. On graduation McCloy received a B. A. degree; he returned the next year and received an M. A. He attended Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va., in 1919-20, and during this time received the Rhodes Scholarship appointment. He entered Oxford the next year. Mr. McCloy is now on the faculty of Duke University as an instructor of history.

MacDowell Richards, '22
Mr. MacDowell Richards, of the class of 1922, is one of the most brilliant of Davidson's sons. Mr. Richards graduated from Davidson High School and attended McCallie School for one year before entering Davidson College. While at Davidson, Mr. Richards led his class for four years, graduating with first honors. The following year he attended Princeton and received his M. A. degree in English and also his appointment as a Rhodes Scholar. Three years later Mr. Richards graduated from the Christ Church College of Oxford University. On returning to America, he studied at Columbia Theological Seminary and finished the three-year course in two years and also received a Fellowship. At present Mr. Richards is in the Home Mission work as pastor of a group of churches in the mountains of north Georgia. A few of the honors which Mr. Richards received while at Davidson are as follows: Omicron Delta Kappa, Mimirs Club, which later became Phi Beta Kappa, editor of Davidsonian, Y. M. C. A. cabinet, Captain in the R. O. T. C., winner of the Bible medal, Junior orator’s medal, Essayist medal and Freshman scholarship. He was a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

W. P. Mills, ’22
William Plummer Mills graduated from Davidson in 1922. He was one of two Davidson students from South Carolina who have received a Rhodes Scholarship appointment. Mills studied at Columbia University after leaving Davidson, and later received his appointment as a Scholar at Oxford. He is now working as a Y. M. C. A. secretary in Hangchow, China. He recently had a narrow escape from the Chinese during the civil war.

Rhodes Robert Davidson, ’23
The last Davidson man to receive the coveted Rhodes Scholarship was Robert Davidson of the class of '23. Davidson entered Oxford in 1926 and finished the theological course in two years. While here, Davidson was an outstanding leader. He made a high scholastic record in his classes, being on the honor roll for three years and valedictorian of his class. He was elected to both Phi Beta Kappa and O. D. K. Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity. He was editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian and was on the staff in his Junior year. He was assistant manager of football in his sophomore year. Davidson was a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Following his graduation in 1923, Davidson taught at the McCallie school before receiving his Rhodes Scholarship. He is now preparing further for the ministry at the Theological Seminary at Louisville.

It is easy to identify the owner of the car; he is the one who, after you pull the door shut, always opens it again and slams it harder,—Detroit News.

GLEE CLUB
(Continued from page 1)

Second Tenors—J. A. Cannon, Jr., A. C. Foard, F. H. Newman, C. C. Orr, Jr., W. E. Phifer, Jr., W. C. Archie.
Baritones—R. S. Abernathy, R. A. Boggess, C. E. Brown, E. Z. DuBose, R. W. McDermid, G. P. Pardington, R. B. Orr.
Basses—C. J. Albright, R. M. Christian, C. H. DuBose, R. R. Kane, R. W. Kirkpatrick, C. K. Poole, J. H. Ramseur.

The quartet will consist of J. E. Bradley, First Tenor; R. S. Abernathy, Second Tenor; E. Z. DuBose, Baritone; C. K. Poole, Bass. Besides a saxophone solo by A. J. Thompson, there will be a stringed trio made up of R. B. Orr, Violin; C. E. Brown, cello; and P. B. Fry, piano. In addition, there will be a violin duet composed of R. B. and C. C. Orr.

The members of the Concert Orchestra are: C. J. Albright, concert master, violin; C. C. Orr, Jr., violin; R. B. Orr, violin; A. G. Foard, violin; R. P. Davis, violin; R. A. Boggess, violin; C. E. Brown, cello; B. H. O. Geer, trumpet; O. T. Gibson, trumpet; A. J. Thompson, clarinet; W. E. Phifer, Jr., trombone; C. K. Poole, tuba; K. P. Maddox, drums; P. B. Fry, piano.

The Sunnyland Serenaders are: B. H. Geer, Director, trumpet; C. C. Orr, Jr., trumpet; A. J. Thompson, saxophone; J. H. Ramseur, saxophone; I. C. Griffin, saxophone; C. J. Albright, banjo; R. B. Orr, violin; O. T. Gibson, tuba; K. P. Maddox, drums; J. G. Johnson, piano.

DAVIDSON-QUEENS
(Continued from page 1)

Stanley, engaged to Barbara—Allan Frew. J. A. McAlpine, an old Davidson man and formerly of Japan, will precede the play with a few remarks concerning “The Part of the Missionary in the Building of New China.” His experience and interest in the Orient well equip him for giving this background for the play.

Changing World
Today, you can see electric welding. The structural steel buildings are being fabricated with joints as strong as the metal itself. Building silently! This seems impossible in this electrical age. The worker is dropping his clattering hammer for the electric arc. Silently, swiftly, rigidly, economically, by electric welding, which knits big buildings noiselessly—another evidence that the electrical industry is maintaining its leadership in this changing world.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK

Not only in building construction, but in every human activity, we instinctively turn to electricity to add to the comforts of life and to eliminate wastes. Not only industrial equipment, but electric refrigerators, MAZDA lamps, and little motors that add to the comforts of home, are manufactured by the General Electric Company. All are identified by the G-E monogram—a symbol of service.