I AM determined to be intensely something. —Longfellow.

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

THE DAVIDSONIAN

EVERYBODY GO TO THE JUNIOR THEATRICAL

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 29, 1928 No. 11

WINNER OF NORRIS CUP TO BE JUDGED ON NEW GROUNDS

Six Nominations Are to be Made by “D” Club

ONE BALLOT ELIMINATED

Athletic Trophy is Given Each Year to Best All-Round Athlete

This year the winner of the Norris Athletic Trophy is to be voted upon after having been nominated by the
Davidson “D” Club. Heretofore there have been no nominations, but the student could vote upon any member of the student
body. The trophy, which is awarded each year to the best all-round athlete, went to the man who had been
chosen on a selection of three ballots, the highest six of the first ballot being voted upon in the second,
the highest three of the second ballot being voted upon in the third. The change in rules amounts to an
elimination of the first ballot. The “D” Club will nominate six men, from whom the highest three will be chosen
and voted upon in the second ballot, the highest man of the last ballot winning the trophy. Section Three of
the new set of rules contains a sentence not fully clear in purpose. It states that “Votes may be cast
for athletes other than the six nominees.” Since there is no provision made as to what will be the decision
if a man not nominated by the “D” Club receives the highest number of votes, it is judged that he
will yet be eligible. Following is a draft of the new rules:

1. The NORRIS Athletic Trophy Committee, made up of the Director of Athletics, the Chairman of the Faculty Athletic Committee,
the Graduate Manager of Athletics, the President of the Student Body, and the Alumni Secretary, with Mr. Frank E. Lowenstein,
of Atlanta, Ga., as ex-officio chairman, shall have charge of the details of awarding the Trophy. In the absence of
the ex-officio chairman, the Director of Athletics shall preside at all meetings of the Committee. The Alumni Secretary shall (Continued
on page 4)

Union Delegation Member Leads “Y”

“The task of the minister, not to make money but to make men, is big enough to challenge the best
qualities in any man,” declared Mr. Jack Redhead, Senior in Union Theological Seminary, in speaking to the Davidson College Y.
M. C. A., Sunday evening. Taking as his general theme “The Minister and his Task,” the speaker first outlined certain
personal characteristics needed for a successful career in the ministry. In the first place, men are needed who are real
men. The old conception of the minister as a soft-spoken, pious, “wallflower” must pass away, if the Church of Christ
is to advance. Furthermore, this idea is not justified if one examines the type of young man now preparing himself
for the gospel ministry. Other qualities needed are a sound body without which life is impossible, a mentally alert mind
to gain the respect of an educated congregation, and a moral and spiritual life which is sound. Finally, the minister
should have a bountiful supply of practical common sense; radicals and wild visionaries have done religion enough harm. Above all,
a minister should feel that he is called of God to lead men individually, and collectively to Christ. There are
as many kinds of calls as there are individuals; the essence of a call being fundamentally a love for men
and God.

In the second division of his address, the speaker talked on the minister's task, and refuted some of the fallacies
commonly prevailing about this calling. Inability to speak well cannot be accepted as a valid reason, for a man’s contacts
and character will probably determine what force his words will carry. The statement that the Church offers no place for
leadership is untrue, for the people of America are eager to be led to a real knowledge of Jesus Christ,
an opportunity for leadership that is unexcelled. The charge that there is no place in the church for thinking men
is likewise false, for Luther, Calvin, and other church leaders in the past have been highly educated and expressed freely
the results of their thinking. The Southern Presbyterian Church needs thinkers to restate its doctrines of the seventeenth century (Continued
on page 4)

Frank W. Price In China Supported By Davidson

DAVIDSON GRADUATE

Distinguished as Davidson Student, Author, Educator, Builder of New China

The Davidson Y. M. C. A has assumed the support of Rev. Frank Price in China. The annual Mission Campaign
begins next week. Features of the campaign include:

1. A display of mission books, pamphlets and posters at the Y-Room.
2. Week of Prayer for World Missions, Dec. 2-9.
3. Presentation of the play, “The Color Line,” a one-act play of China at Y. Vespers, Dec. 9.
4. Raising $1,000 for the support of Frank Price in China.

Frank Price was born in China and he and his three brothers grew up in a mission station in a
thoroughly Chinese atmosphere, “yet,” as he himself writes, “in a home which was an oasis of piety and love. For
each one it has seemed the natural thing to come back to work in the land that our parents have
loved and taught us boys to love.” Frank Price's record as a student and a campus leader is enviable. He
was not simply an Honor Roll student who averaged 97.56, but in addition was the founder and first editor-in-chief of
the Davidsonian, Editor of the Annual, Business Manager of the College Magazine, Y. M. C. A. President, President of Volunteer
Group, and President of his Class, President of North Carolina Student Volunteer Union. Intercollegiate Debater, Vice-President of After leaving Davidson
Frank Price served a three year term in China, gaining entrance into Government schools hitherto closed to Christian effort. After
returning to America in 1918, he was sent to France for Y. M. C. A. work among Chinese laborers. During
the next three years while taking his B. D. at Yale Divinity School and M. A. from Columbia, he acted
as Associate Secretary of the Chinese Student’s Christian Association of America. In 1923 he sailed with his bride, Essie McClure,
for China, (Continued on page 4)

Trip Planned For Indoor Track Men To Attend Meets at Richmond and University of Virginia

Capt. N. G. Pritchett is planning for the indoor track team to attend two meets this year. One meet at
Richmond on February ninth and the other at the University of Virginia on February sixteenth. Many colleges in Virginia, North
Carolina and other states in this section will be represented at both engagements. The usual events on the program of
indoor meets are as follows: 50-yard dash, 50-yard low hurdles, 440-yard, 880-yard, one mile, two mile runs. The field events
are: high jump, pole vault, and shot put. The principal reason for Davidson to attend the meet is that Capt.
Pritchett wishes to increase the interest of the students in track and to provide more competition for the team, as
he intends to take on a much harder schedule than there has been in past years. The gymnasium may be
used only for events which take up very little space, such as, sprints, low hurdles, high jump, pole vault, and
shot put, but not for the distance running. This means that unless some larger space is secured our distance men
will be handicapped by not being able to practice indoors. After football season is over Capt. Pritchett begins his body-building
program for all students. This will be in the form of fifteen minute exercises. Boxing will be the main feature
of this work. It will be for those who wish to learn boxing and also for those who only wish
exercise. Matches will be held and medals will be awarded to the winners in each of the seven weights.

Jazz Orchestra On WBT Tonight

The Sunnyland Serenaders, Davidson's jazz orchestra, will take the air again tonight from 7:30 to 8:30 over radio station WBT,
Charlotte. The hour's program, according to B. H. O. Geer, director of the orchestra, will consist principally of popular jazz
numbers. There will also be several novelty selections and instrumental solos by various members of the organization. This is the
second time that the orchestra has broadcast from WBT this year. The first program also consisted of popular selections and
was well received by W. B. T.’s audience. A number of favorable comments were received by the station on the
orchestra's program. The orchestra has broadcast over this station a number of times in previous years. This is the ninth
time in the last four years that the Serenaders have taken the air from WBT. The Serenaders are the official
jazz orchestra of the college and accompany the glee club on its trips. They always prove a big hit on
every program offered. The personnel of the orchestra is as follows: B. O. Geer, trumpet; C. C. Orr, trumpet; (Continued
on page 5)

Thankful for What?

For those who love me, expect much of me, and whose willing hands do not weary in shaping the opportunities
that are mine. For the enduring friendships of College Life. For the high ideals of this campus life, and their
constant call to the best that is in me. For work to do and sports to play and character-making decisions
to be faced, and a God-given measure of strength of body, mind and spirit for tackling each part of the
task. For the fighting spirit undeterred by heavy odds, and the sportsmanship that makes a good loser as well as
a good winner. Most of all for Him who gave Himself that I might live more abundantly.

H. M. Moffett, College Pastor.

Tuesday morning between 1:30 A. M. and 4:00 A. M., the alarm of a clock could be heard going off
and occasionally a light could be seen going on through the dormitories. Some of the clocks were allowed to run
down, the sleeper all unconscious of its insistency; others were cut off without having performed the duty for which they
had been set. The object of the early rising on the part of some of the students was to observe
what is called in various languages der Mond, luna, mene, la lune, la luna and the moon, as that silvery
creature went into eclipse, and stayed behind the enveloping shadow of mother earth for almost an hour Tuesday morning. The
atmosphere being cold and crystal clear was ideal for the observation of an eclipse. The phenomenon began by a narrow
shadow encroaching upon the edge of the moon and in this way almost a full month was cut from Captain
Cochran was sent from Station OP-1HR at San Jose, Calif.about 1:30. This shadow gradually crept on until at about 3:30
the entire moon was shut off from light from the sun and therefore no light was reflected back to the
earth except for a reddish tinge that was caused by rays of light refracted by the atmosphere around the earth.
After staying in complete eclipse for almost an hour, it showed its edge once more and at 6:30, at about
the time it set, the moon was again free for those who wish.

LINGLE TO SPEAK TO LANGUAGE ASSN. ON THANKSGIVING

Annual Meeting Will Be Held in Richmond

“THINKING FRENCH”

Association is That of Modern Language Professors of Virginia

Dr. T. W. Lingle will make the principal address at the annual meeting of the Modern Language Association of Virginia
on Thanksgiving day in Richmond. He has been invited to speak to the professors and teachers of Spanish, French, and
German in the universities, colleges, and secondary schools of all Virginia. The meeting this year will be held in the
John Marshall High School in Richmond, and is a part of the program carried out by the State Educational Board.
All schools, both college and secondary, will be represented at the meeting, which is held during the Thanksgiving holidays.

Dr. Lingle will speak on the subject, “Thinking French.” For a number of years he has been visiting or studying
in the state of Virginia, and has a host of friends there. His welcome will be made in the form
of a Thanksgiving dinner tendered him by the Modern Language Teachers of the City of Richmond. Here he will be
the guest of honor. Many of the attendants of the meeting will be close friends of Dr. Lingle, either from
the standpoint of being a student under him or with him in his studies in the state’s institutions of learning.
The Modern Language Association of Virginia is similar to the Association in North Carolina. Each year sees a gathering of
the professors of modern language. They meet to discuss the problems that have affronted them and to work out new
plans for the future in view of a better knowledge of the languages. The meeting of the North Carolina teachers
will take place later in the year.

Authorities Formulate Plans To Merge

Outside Tryouts For Rifle Team Will Be Held

There will be a match fired in the week ending December 7, which will be the decisive factor in the
elimination of the men trying out for the Rifle Team and the selecting of the men for the team which
is to represent the school for the year 1928-1929. At the same time that the men will shoot in the
elimination match, there will be fired the Davidson Open Match which is open to any bona fide student of the
school whether he is taking ROTC or not. This match is to decide who will be the winner of the
trophy which is offered by the Scabbard and Blade and which is hanging at the present time outside the door
of the office of the PMS&T. The men trying out for the team are eligible to compete for this trophy
and the scores that are fired for the choosing of the members of the team will be entered as the
score for that man in the competition for the trophy. In other words, the men trying out for the team
will fire one score which will be the elimination score and the trophy score. Any student of the college who
wishes to try for the trophy will please see Manager W. M. Long and be entered in the match. They
will be issued targets as soon as they have complied with the existing regulations and also will be assigned to
a rifle. These men will please make arrangements with the Manager at once so that they can get their rifle
and get some practice. The time limit will be set as 1:30 December 31. No one will be considered for
entering the match after the time set. Targets for men competing will be issued after chapel Monday. All competitors must
have their targets by 1:30 Monday, December 3. It would be advantageous for all concerned to watch the ROTC Bulletin
Board for announcements.

Captain Elkins Receives Unusual Communication

Message Relayed From Philippines by Amateur Station in California

Of interest to everyone and especially to people who are following the progress of radio is the radiogram which Capt.
John Elkins of the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit recently received. This radiogram is of more than passing interest because of the
way in which it was received. Some time ago Captain Elkins had occasion to write to Capt. F. M. Cochran
in connection with a matter which should have received prompt attention. Due to the fact that Captain Cochran changed from
his old station to Fort William McKinley, Philippine Islands, without Captain Elkins’ knowledge, it was necessary for his letter to
follow Captain Cochran around until it finally arrived in his hands. Immediately upon the receipt of the letter Captain Cochran
evidently sent Captain Elkins a radiogram from an amateur transmitting station in the Philippines, and the message was picked up
by Mr. Stone, Station NU-6AMM in California. Mr. Stone forwarded the message by letter, thus saving the time that a
letter would have taken to come from the Philippines. As was found out later the message was sent from Fort
McKinley. Station NU-6AMM has daily communication with this place, and it handles from 400 to 450 of its messages a
month. In this way Captain Cochran's message was received. Both of these stations are members of the American Radio Relay
League with headquarters at Hartford, Conn. This association has a membership of over 30,000 men and boys who are licensed
to operate amateur radio broadcasting and receiving sets. The members of the league maintain their own sets and handle messages
from all parts of the world, free of charge. Station NU-6AMM operated by Mr. Stone has talked with amateurs in
South Africa, South America, South Sea Islands, China, Japan, New Zealand, Hawaii, Philippine Islands, and many other far distant places.
It has been heard in England, Belgium, France, and Switzerland.

The Junior Class Preparing Theatrical Amusement On Dec. 15

American Legion Follies of Statesville to Give Revue in Co-operation with Juniors

At a meeting of the Junior Class held Monday morning, the class voted to sponsor a Junior Theatrical Entertainment to
be held on the week-end of December 15. Zeb V. Long, Jr., president of the class, explained a plan whereby
Murray Grier, director of The American Follies at Statesville, will come to Davidson and stage the show for the Juniors.
The idea is to take the best talent in the Junior Class and combine it with feature acts from the
Legion show in Statesville. The completed production will be in the nature of a revue and will be entirely different
from anything seen at Davidson heretofore. The show will last for an hour and a half, giving time for all
present to attend entertainments later in the evening. There will be a number of Statesville’s “Fairest” in the cast, and
this fact alone will be very attractive to Davidson students. The Davidson Orchestra will play for the production. The following
committees were announced to serve in preparation for the show: Tickets and Seating Arrangements—W. B. McGuire, Chairman; Sam Coker, E.
H. McCall, W. G. McGavock. Advertising—D. J. Anderson, Chairman; A. Moore, F. Jarrett.

Talent With Army Band

Campaign Staged for New Uniforms for Band

CONTRIBUTION MADE

Students Not Eligible for R.O.T.C. Band Will Become Members of New Organization

Plans are being formulated for the organization of a Davidson College Band composed of the members of the present R.O.T.C.
band and any other students who are not eligible to this band. The R.O.T.C. band will be used as a
nucleus for the college organization, and additions to this will be made from students with musical ability who desire to
play in the group, but who do not take R.O.T.C. The uniforms will be bought with the money now being
raised in the campaign launched by Capt. John Elkins which will be used for this band. The present plan is
to obtain a good uniform for the drum major first, then to complete the uniforming of the rest of the
band later. More stress will be put on the drum major's uniform as he is the most conspicuous member of
the band. The uniforms of the drum major and the players will harmonize in color scheme. In connection with the
drive for funds over $100 has been pledged by members of the faculty to date. All members have not yet
been approached, and the leaders of the drive are encouraged by this beginning. Every faculty member will be called on
for $5.00. Some who have already contributed stated that if funds did not come in freely that they would double
the amount. In addition to the faculty contributions the Wilder Q. Gresham Post No. 66 of Mooresville, N.C. has contributed
$25.00, the check having been received Nov. 24. This was sent in appreciation of the band playing for them annually
at their Armistice Day exercises. The North Mecklenburg Post No. 86, Davidson-Cornelius-Huntersville, will probably make a contribution.

Former Aviator Will Conduct “Y”

To lead Y.M.C.A. vespers, Rev. A. J. McKelway, Jr., pastor of the Laurel Hill Presbyterian Church, is coming here next
Sunday. As a young man himself he takes an active interest in young people. He is a virile and forceful
speaker bringing a vital message. Mr. McKelway is the son of Rev. A. J. McKelway, for many years editor of
the Presbyterian Standard. Entering the Air Corps he distinguished himself during the World War. After the War was over, he
entered Hampden-Sidney College in 1920. There he played football for two years and graduated in 1924. From Hampden-Sidney he went
to Union Theological Seminary where he remained for the next three years. At the Seminary he organized one of the
few Seminary football teams which have made distinguished records. After his graduation from the Seminary in 1926, he received a
call from Laurel Hill to the “Church in the Pines” where he is now pastor.

Spanish Club Bids

At a recent meeting of the Spanish Club five men were selected from among the students of Spanish and were
issued bids. These men were: A. H. Shepherd, A. W. Cowan, J. A. Ratchford, W. S. McGavock, and D. C.
Hunter. They were chosen because of their ability and interest in Spanish. After a short program including talks by two
of the new members, Shepherd and Hunter, there was a “feed,” consisting of Spanish and Mexican dishes. The meetings so
far this year have been very successful and, it is thought, very beneficial.
