November 22, 1928, THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

The past weekend was the occasion of many social activities. There were many visitors on the campus. All the fraternities
gave house parties. Many alumni came back to the Alma Mater. Many friends were present.

Pyramid Club
One of the features of the weekend party of the Pyramid Club was a dinner-party given at the Hotel Charlotte
Friday evening. A large number of the fraternity attended the affair, which proved to be enjoyable in every respect. The
following girls were weekend guests: Misses Gladys Goodwin, N. C. C. W.; Lib McLean, Lincolnton; Margaret Strong, Charlotte; Patsy Ruth
Miller, Sedgefield, N. C.; Eunice Glenn and Lottie Rhodes, Asheville; Ruth Lane Stikeleather, Lib Kirby and George Lee Muldrow, Converse
College; Meta Brice, Jacksonville, Fla.; Louise Harry, Salisbury; Nell Atkins, Saltville, Va.; Frances Armstrong, Belmont; Beatrice Young, Albemarle; Anna Hyde,
Charleston, S. C.; Mildred Holland, Norfolk, Va.; Mary Booker, Statesville; Agnes Lynn, Moultrie, Ga.; Emily Frazer, Charlotte.

Among the friends and alumni visiting were: Misses May Patterson, Savannah, Ga.; Frances Mullens, Pulaski, Va., and Jane Leighton Richards,
Davidson, all from Converse College; Bill Strong, J. B. Kuykendall, Jimmie Trotter, John McNeely, Bill Doderer, Gattys Gilmer, Charlotte; Odell
Sapp, U. N. C.; Hardwick Lord, Asheville; Bill McAulay, Winston-Salem; R. H. McIlwaine, Aynor, S. C.; Mike Patrick, Belmont.

Delta Theta Chi
The following were weekend guests of Delta Theta Chi: Misses Olive Singleton, Shelby, N. C.; Alice Ennis, N. C. C.
W.; Marguerite Tilley, N. C. C. W.; Sarah Smith, Winthrop; Betty Coleman, Shelby, N. C.; Dot McKnight, N. C. C.
W.; Christie Maynard, N. C. C. W.; Marguerite Burke, Winston-Salem; Douglas Rankin, Charlotte; Edith Storm, Charlotte.

Alumni visiting were: Bill Story, ’27, Ashboro, N. C.; Stuart Buchanan, ’23, Shelby, N. C.; Hugh Arrowood, ’28, Shelby, N.
C.; Gus Smith, ’28, Travelers Rest, S. C.

Pi Kappa Alpha
The following were weekend guests of Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Frances Reid, Greenville, S. C.; Florence Page, Rockingham, N. C.;
Laverne Ware, Greensboro, N. C.; Polly Aiken, Richmond, Va.; Corinne Cook, Greensboro; Tommy Davis, Salisbury; Mary Little Steele, Rockingham; Anne
McLaurin, Charlotte; Betsy Davis, Salisbury.

Alumni visiting were: Charles Baskerville, ’28, Tampa, Fla.; Charlie Harrison, ’28, Greensboro; John McRae, Maxton, ’26; Mason Carroll, ’26, York,
S. C.; Jeter Brawley, ’30, Durham; James McQueen, ’20; Tommy McSwain, ’25, Clio, S. C.; Clement Penn, ’28, Greensboro; Cicero
Gaether, ’22, Newton.

Several guests visited the house over the weekend: Tom Hobbs, Greensboro; Dick Royal, Laurinburg; Bud Paterson, Statesville; Carl Deaton, Statesville.

Theta Upsilon Omega
Among the girls who were weekend guests of Theta Upsilon Omega are: Misses Margaret McConnell, Gastonia; Ruth Ward, Converse; Virginia
Clark, Helen Flowers, Hickory; Helen Rudisill, Spartanburg; Margaret McCorkle, Asheville; Ellen Hawkins, and Louise Garibaldi, Charlotte; Charlotte Koonce, Richlands, N.
C.; Evelyn Josephs and Julia Josephs, Charlotte; Harriet Berry, Winston-Salem; Virginia Harris, Winston-Salem; Elizabeth Gatewood, Ruffin; Louise Ruff, St. Petersburg;
Elizabeth Foil, Salisbury; Alice Peeples, Columbus, Ga.; Julia Marsh, Fountain Inn, S. C.; Lucille Bailey, Charlotte; Pat Summersett, Columbia, S.
C.; Beth Wooten, Harrisonburg, Pa.

Among alumni were: O. J. Allison, ’24, Winston-Salem; E. P. O'Connor, ’26, Charlotte; G. S. Brooks, ’28, Fountain Inn, S.
C.; Hugh Harris, ’27, Charlotte; Ed Foil, ’31, Salisbury; J. H. Foil, ’31, Salisbury; Warren Smith, ’27, Charlotte; R. H.
Ratchford, ’27, Gastonia; R. S. Lowrance, ’28, Charlotte; J. T. Embry, ’29, Atlanta; J. M. Appleby, ’26, Richmond, Va.; J.
G. Hand, ’27, Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha
The Kappa Alpha fraternity entertained during Homecoming with a house party. Many guests were entertained over the weekend; among them
being many young ladies and alumni of the chapter who returned for the game. Those present were: Miss Emily Townsend,
Winthrop; Miss Alice Caldwell, Daisy Litz, Salem College; Miss Sarah Spratt, Evelyn Wagner, Queens College; Mary Beth Pervis, Columbia; Jane
Leighton Richards, May Patterson, Frances Mullens, Converse; Martha McDowell, York, S. C.; Messrs. Witt Hancock, Joe Willard, Hickory; Frank McCrary,
Ashboro; Julian Lake, Lewis McColgan, Union Seminary; George Batte, Concord; Archie Carter, Duke; Al Simpson.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Misses Frances Shute, Monroe, N. C.; Bert Sterling, Wilmington; Myra Boynton, Atlanta, Ga.; Elenor Ward, Charlotte; Lib Patterson, Charlotte; Anne
White, Raleigh; Betty White, Norfolk, Va.; Cissy Stokes, Charlotte; Vera Oates, Charlotte; Louise John, Laurinburg, N. C.; Anne Osteen, Sumter,
S. C.; Rosie Reed Rosborough, Jacksonville, Fla.; Claudia Peterson, Jacksonville, Fla.; Virginia Lasater, Winston-Salem; among the alumni were: Martin Crawford,
’28, Charlotte; Tom Baker, ’26; John Baker, ’25, Jacksonville, Fla.; W. T. Covington, ’27; Bailey Evans, ’28.

Pi Kappa Phi
Young ladies present for Homecoming as guests of the chapter were: Miss Hilda Davidson, Miss Elsie Fluharty, Miss Elizabeth Darling,
Miss “Piggy” Newell, Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Nell Hamer, Clio, S. C.; Miss Louisa Farrow, Miss Betty Malloch, Charleston, S.
C.; Miss McClelland, Maxton, N. C.; Miss Edith Johnston, Mobile, Ala.; Miss Anne Fayssoux Johnston, Barium Springs, N. C.; Miss
Sally Harrison, York, S. C.; Miss Virginia Harrison, Baltimore, Md.; Miss Mildred Foster, Miss Betty Carter, Miss Sally Conner, Reidsville,
N. C.; Miss Scottie Johnston, Miss Kathryn Tucker, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Winifred Fisher, Wilmington, N. C.; Miss Miriam Weeks,
Hendersonville, N. C.; and Miss Elizabeth Glidewell, Reidsville, N. C.

Among the alumni and visitors from other chapters were: Will Shaw, J. G. Thacker, W. S. Cunningham, Barnette Garrison, Bill
Neal, Reggie Price, Worth Williams, Charlie Hunter, John Fowler, Charlie Striebich, Joe Henry Powell, Sonny Pullen, Maury Johnston, Neal McDonald,
Johnny Womack, Tom Hamilton, Murphy McKinnon, from the Davidson chapter. From the University of North Carolina chapter were Rooney Clewell,
McInnis, Bud Schuler, Dick Newell, Theron Brown, Charlie Dunn, from the N. C. State chapter. Bynum Poe, from P. C.;
and Buck Flowers from the University of South Carolina.

Beta Theta Pi
The following were weekend guests of Beta Theta Pi: Lura Abercrombie, Greensboro; Margaret Blue, Fayetteville; Mary McMillan, Oberlin, Ohio; Shorty
Reed, Concord; Penelope Cannon, Concord; Margaret High, Greensboro; Kitty Williamson, Fayetteville; Sara Bell Mitchell, Charlotte; Francis Lineberger, Belmont; Betty Dunlap,
Rock Hill; Elizabeth Johnson, Charlotte; Edith Parker, Gastonia; Rebie Jones, Lancaster; Meda Moore, New Bern; Shorty Pegues, Greenville; Libba Bass,
Reidsville; Elizabeth Bryan, Danville, Va.; Jean Craig, Charlotte; Dee Hall, Belmont; Sallie Abernethy, Winter Haven, Fla.; Mary McClaren, Charlotte; Minerva
Wylie, Rock Hill, S. C.; Martha Morrison, Hartsville, S. C.; Christine McCreary, Lexington; Florence Johnson, New Bern; Eleanor Ward, Charlotte;
Margaret Poston, Statesville; Katherine Poston, Statesville; Lorine Davis, Winter Haven, Fla.; Martha Robinson, Gastonia; Mary Grier Poe, Rock Hill; Virginia
Howe, Beaufort, N. C.

Phi Gamma Delta
The Phi Gam’s had as visitors the following: Misses Bobbie Hunt Burton, Reidsville; Ida Clifton Galloway, Winston-Salem; Frances Weeks, Hendersonville.

BOOKS PRESENTED TO Y AND LIBRARY
A most pleasing expression of the appreciation of his Alma Mater is the gift of Mr. Robert Williams Graves, '26,
of more than $200.00 worth of new scientific material. The gift includes the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.of Science, published in
London. Thirty books have been received and are now on special shelves in the main stack room, and additional ones
have been ordered. It is Mr. Graves’ intention to add to the collection from time to time, the books to
be selected primarily from standard works in Physics, Astronomy, and Mathematics.

On Friday last, November 16, the Y. M. C. A. was the recipient of a series of very helpful and
inspiring books presented by Davidson College through Mr. F. L. Jackson. These books, now on display at the “Y” room,
are: “Living Messages of the Books of the Bible,” by G. Campbell Morgan; “Prayer Meeting Papers,” by Mrs. J. B.
Shearer, wife of the former president of Davidson College; “One Hundred Brief Bible Stories,” “Hebrew Institutions, Social and Civil,” and
“The Scriptures, Selected Old Testament Studies,” all by Dr. J. B. Shearer.

Dr. Taliaferro Thompson, who recently conducted the regular fall meetings of the local Y. M. C. A., sent the “Y”
secretary a list of books which he had mentioned in his talks. Dr. Thompson recommends that every student read these
books. Their names and a brief synopsis of each are posted on the bulletin board at the “Y” room. Camper
O'Neil, “Y” secretary, will order them for anyone who wishes to read them. There are a number of pamphlets placed
on the right of the reading room entrance which are free to all. An effort is being made by the
Y. M. C. A. to instill an interest in books of the right nature and the secretary is always glad
to receive any suggestions from the members of the student body; also the names of any new worthwhile books. From
time to time a list of books by leading men will be posted on the bulletin board.

Davidson Book & Stationery Co.

The guest list of the Sigma Delta fraternity included the following young ladies: Misses Louise Miller, Salisbury; Ethel Cobb, Greensboro;
Elizabeth Shreve, N. C. C. W.; Laura McNair and Hilda Nance, Queens; Katherine Thompson, Converse; Ruth Stephens and Betty Blankenship,
Charlotte; Charlotte Humphries, N. C. C. W.; Margaret Bruce, Converse.

Y. M. C. A. Entertains

For the Homecoming festivities, the “Y” acted as host to a house party for those non-fraternity men who had invited
young ladies up for the occasion. On Saturday night following the Stunt Night program in Shearer Hall, the “Y” gave
a reception honoring the visitors. Punch and cakes were served. Dr. and Mrs. Moffett, Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle,
Captain and Mrs. Otto, and Camper O'Neil received the guests. Misses Susan and Caroline Moffett presided at the punch bowl.

Musical Play Attracts Many

At the presentation of the “Desert Song” in the Charlotte Auditorium on Tuesday night, there were many Davidson boys and
townspeople present. The musical comedy was well received by a Charlotte audience which filled the hall to capacity.

Glee Club Feted

After its first appearance in concert for the year in the Queens College auditorium on Tuesday night, the Glee Club
was entertained in the main parlor of Queens College at a reception by the Senior class. Refreshments were served during
the evening. In the receiving line were Dr. and Mrs. Frazer, several members of the faculty, and officers of the
student body together with representatives of the Senior class, headed by Miss Sallie Scott Erwin, president.

Mr. Charles Robson and Mrs. Summerell, of the U. N. C., were guests of Mrs. A. B. Robson during the
weekend. Mr. Allan B. Wright and bride, of Jacksonville, Fla., Misses Shaffner and Wooten, and Miss Pendleton Sandridge and W.
C. Wright, Jr., of Winston-Salem were guests of Mrs. N. T. Smith for the weekend. Miss Shaffner is a member
of Salem College faculty.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO. CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE

S & W Cafeterias are catering to you
ATLANTA
ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

Physical Exams of Students Complete
Complete Tabulation of Results to be Made Before They Are Published

Physical examinations of all students have been completed by Dr. J. W. McConnell, college physician, but tabulations of the results
of these examinations will have to be made before they are published. These tabulations will provide statistics of height, weight,
and the most common physical defects, which will be a guide to proper improvement along physical lines for every student
in the college.

Davidson was one of the first Southern colleges to establish a department of Physical Education and Dr. McConnell was put
at the head of the department in 1908. He has made complete examinations of all Freshmen every year, but this
year the examinations were made compulsory for all students. Capt. N. G. Pritchett is now to take charge of the
Department of Physical Education, and Dr. McConnell’s work will be that of Medical Advisor and College Physician, as well as
professor of Physiology and Hygiene.

Dr. McConnell, who is secretary and treasurer of the Board of Medical Examiners of the State of North Carolina, attended
the meeting of the Southern Medical Association at Asheville, November 12 to 15. He also attended the meeting of the
Railway Surgeons Association at the same time as he is local surgeon for the Southern Railway.

Attractive Blazers Chosen by Seniors

The new Senior blazers which are appearing on the campus are quite neat and attractive. Eighty Seniors ordered the new
coats which give these candidates for graduation a distinctive appearance. Very different from the red and black blazers of last
year’s Seniors, it is Oxford grey, trimmed in blue, having a shield on the left side with a “D” and
a ’29 in it. The coat is on the Oxford-Cambridge style and makes a very attractive mark of distinction for
the Seniors.

Members of the class of ’29 express themselves as well pleased with this style of blazer which was chosen over
the many others suggested. This committee on selection was composed of Jack Causey, chairman; Reid Graham, Chatham Clark, Kenneth Maddox,
and Frank Cannon.

“Hand that bill to yer boss, an’ tell him ex-Corporal Brown, commonly called ‘Fightin’ Joe,’ wants to know why it
ain’t been paid.”—Judge.

Boys Bring Your Friends To

Davidson Book & Stationery Co.
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
Everything in Stationery - Kodaks - Victrolas - Student Supplies
Make Our Store Your Headquarters
“EVERYTHING THE STUDENT NEEDS”

When your mind balks at “figurin’”

If yours is a mind easily confused by interstellar distances, infinity of space, light-years, weighty statistics — forget the ponderable
fact that Camels lead today by billions. Just light ’em... smoke ’em... revel in their fragrance. Watch your barometer swing
to “fair and cooler” — and let your smoke-sense tell the tale of Camel supremacy!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY. WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
