THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 12, 1928

ALUMNI DEATHS

Dr. William H. Houser, graduate of the North Carolina Medical College in 1902, while the medical college was connected with Davidson, died at his home in Cherryville, on January 7th, following a serious illness of two months. Dr. Houser, who had practiced at Cherryville for more than a quarter of a century, was one of the most prominent men in his county, and was beloved by a wide host of friends throughout the state. He was vice-president of the N. C. Medical Society, a director of the First National Bank of Cherryville, vice-president of the Wildan Manufacturing Company, and vice-president and treasurer of the Rhyne-Houser Manufacturing Company, of Cherryville. Funeral services were held at the Cherryville Lutheran Church, on Friday, with interment in the church cemetery.

Col. Charles Watt, Jr., ’11, solicitor of the city courts of Camilla and Pelham, Ga., was instantly killed, and Byron Baggs, Jr., of Camilla, and Miss Beatrice Brown, Wesleyan College student, were painfully injured near Camilla during the Christmas holidays, when the car in which they were driving suddenly swerved into a concrete bridge and was completely demolished. Flames which consumed the wreckage resulted in serious burns to all passengers. Mr. Watt was said to have died instantly of a broken neck.

Samuel Brice Clowney, ’88, prominent planter of the Halsellville community, near Chester, died from a self-inflicted shotgun wound at his home on January 8th. Mr. Clowney, despondent over ill health which had resulted from an automobile accident three years ago, went to his garage and fired two shots through his heart, ending his life instantly. He was dead before his son and a negro workman could reach him, after hearing the discharge of the gun. His tragic death has brought sorrow to a wide host of friends and relatives throughout the Carolinas. Funeral services were conducted last Friday evening from the Concord Presbyterian Church, at Woodward, of which he was an elder.

Rev. Thornton Whaling, D.D., LL.D., Litt.D., professor at Louisville (Ky.) Theological Seminary, and a graduate of Davidson College in the class of 1877, has been signally honored and recognized by being chosen by the University of North Carolina as the McNair lecturer for this year. It is announced that Dr. Whaling will discuss the respective rights of science, philosophy, and religion in the series of three lectures that constitute his appearance at the University. These will later be published in book form by the state institution. It is evident that this is an honor which comes to the most distinguished men in this country, when it is stated that among those who have lectured at Chapel Hill have been Dean C. R. Brown, of Yale; Dr. Vincent, of the Rockefeller Foundation; David Starr Jordan, president of Leland Stanford University in California; Henry Van Dyke, and others of equal note.

“One of the most famous lectureships in our country is that founded by John Calvin McNair at the University of North Carolina. Since 1906 a number of notable scientists and ministers have lectured under this foundation,” was the statement made with the announcement of Dr. Whaling’s selection as the one for 1928.

Housewife—“I don’t feed tramps.”
Tramp—“Well, I didn’t ask you to feed me. Give me the grub and I'll feed myself.”—Wet Hen.

The Commercial National Bank
Founded 1874
Charlotte, N. C.

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs. 4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Government. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00. Make us your Executor.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
J. B. DOAR, Assistant Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

The New Orthophonic Victrola
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock--Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Mr. Arthur Duncan Malloy, '25, was married to Miss Evelyn Tillman, daughter of Mrs. Joseph Bruce Tillman, of Quitman, Ga., at the home of the bride on the evening of November 30. The former Miss Tillman is a talented and accomplished member of the younger social set of Quitman. Mr. Malloy, who was graduated from Davidson in 1925, is now engaged in business with his father at Quitman.

Mr. N. Smith Oliver, ex-’25, of Roanoke, Va., was married to Miss Ruth Stanley, also of Roanoke, on November 10th. The marriage, which was of wide social interest...throughout Virginia and the Carolinas was solemnized at the home of the bride, one of Roanoke’s most popular young ladies. Mr. and Mrs. Maynard Revenal Howle announce the marriage of their daughter, Mary Frances, to Donald Stuart Menzies, on Monday, December 26, 1927, at Darlington, S.C. Mr. Menzies, who graduated from Davidson in the spring of 1921, is now engaged in business in Hickory, N.C. After a wedding trip, Mr. and Mrs. Menzies returned to Hickory where they will make their home.

John A. Poteat, ’21, of Marion, N.C., will be married to Miss Margaret Blythe, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Blythe, of Brevard, N.C., during the latter part of January. Announcement of the engagement and approaching marriage of this popular couple was made at a bridge party given by Mrs. Thomas H. Shipman, aunt of the bride, during the past week. The bride-elect has been teaching school in Lincolnton but resigned her position during the holidays. Mr. Poteat is the senior resident engineer of the state highway commission at Marion.

Mr. Hugh Alexander Query, ’09, of Gastonia, was married to Mrs. Lucille Pitts Tomlin, of Statesville, at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Irvine Steele, in that city, on the afternoon of December 13. The ceremony, which was one of extraordinary beauty, was performed by Dr. C. E. Raynal, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville. The marriage came as a distinct surprise to the friends of both bride and groom. Mrs. Query, who has lived in Gastonia for the past four years, is a gifted and valued member of the Gastonia Music Club. She is also organist for the First Presbyterian Church. Mr. Query, one of the owners and editor of the Gastonia Daily Gazette, is a graduate of Davidson and a member of both the Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternities of the college. He is at present a member of the Alumni Council of Davidson and has been closely identified with the alumni work of the institution for many years.

No poisonous reptiles and few wild animals are to be found in Japan.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Atlanta Alumni Meet at Annual Yuletide Dinner
Atlanta Boys, Students at Davidson, Are Honor Guests at Banquet

More than twenty loyal Davidson alumni and students gathered at the Henry Grady Hotel in Atlanta on the evening of December 31st, for the annual Christmas banquet of the Atlanta Alumni Association. Especial interest was manifest in the progress of Davidson during the past fifteen years, with the alumni showing an exceptional interest in the endeavor of college authorities to bring about a closer contact between faculty and students and the departmentalization of college courses. Dr. John Bonar White, president of the Atlanta association, presided as toastmaster. Following a report by a special nominating committee, Rev. Wade H. Boggs, of the Druid Hills Presbyterian Church, was elected to the presidency of the Atlanta association for the ensuing year, with Mr. J. L. R. Boyd as vice-president, and Dr. E. I. Bishop as secretary-treasurer.

Rev. D. P. McGeachy, Sr., D.D., ’96, and Mrs. McGeachy will sail from New York on January 25, to spend some time in the Holy Land. While on this trip they will also visit the principal European countries, and will also spend several days with their son, Rev. D. P. McGeachy, Jr., '22, who is studying this year at Edinburgh.

Dr. Oren Moore, '08, of Charlotte, was the principal speaker at the Statesville Kiwanis Club a few days before the Christmas holidays, and at the same meeting Karl Sherrill, ’12, of Statesville, was chosen trustee for this organization.

Rev. J. W. Rosebrough, ’06, Spruce Pine, N.C., will have the sympathy of many friends in the recent death of his wife. Sympathy is also extended to Rev. Neal Anderson, D.D., ’85, of Savannah, Ga., in the death of his sister, Ms. Lois McIver, who died near Winston-Salem last Saturday night.

Dr. Robert E. Abell, '08, of Chester, S.C., is consulting surgeon of the Seaboard Airline Railway Company.

S & W Cafeteria
CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE ASHEVILLE RALEIGH
(ATLANTA Soon)

We are offering a reduction of 25% on all our winter Men’s Suits and Overcoats. One will find many exceptional values---all new, smart styles---good colors and quality fabrics.
Efird’s Men’s Dep't, Street Floor
THE SOUTH'S FINEST STORE
Charlotte, N.C.