Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, September 20, 1928.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m.

The Davidsonian Wants
—to welcome everybody back to Davidson.
—to see the freshmen fall into line and become real Wildcats.
—everybody to push that team on to a big victory over Guilford.
—to call attention to the better order during the chapel service.
—these freshmen to get the “speaking habit.”
—to commend those who rushed the Fraternity Court to completion in time for use at the first of the term.
—comments in the “Open Forum” column concerning the new Davidsonian. Do you like it or not?
—to thank the ‘Y” for helping orient the new men so efficiently, and making them feel at home.
—everyone to cast a ‘straw’ ballot.

QUOTING SENATOR ROBINSON
However difficult it may be, this journal purposes to maintain a strictly non-partisan attitude both in expression and implication throughout this presidential campaign. But reference is here made to the address made by Senator Joseph T. Robinson in Shearer Hall last Wednesday, without condemning his cause and yet without voicing sanction. As Davidsonians are entering and re-entering the college for another year in their life’s history it is well to apply part of the Senator’s remarks: He said, in part, as follows:

“Some of you will go forth, to meet success in almost every sphere of activity you enter, and others to encounter failure. It is not the law of life or nature that the ambitions of all shall be realized or the efforts which everyone puts forth shall be rewarded with success. You have this source of strength, that no matter who succeeds, no one can fail in his own eyes if he employs every effort and employs all his natural powers to capacity to the end of his life.”

The new year is here. Upperclassmen know something of what to expect but the new men do not. In truth, it is a new experience upon which each one is entering. Some will, in the Senator’s words, “meet success in almost every sphere of activity you enter” while here in college. Others will encounter a multitude of failures. Numbers of men are required to leave every year for one reason or another, but there are many others who fail to attain to the ideals of Christian manhood set by the College or the Student Council. So this exhortation: Now is the time for good resolutions backed by an enthusiastic practice. Now is a better time to do hard work than the night before examinations and it is a better time to make a friend of the fellow who sits in the adjoining seat or rooms next door than the week before student elections. Today there is a better opportunity to get out and get some strength and life in one’s physical being or to read some “parallel” than there will be tomorrow. Today is a better day than tomorrow to finally employ every effort and all one’s natural powers to capacity in this great new experience.

AUBREY BROWN........... Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL............. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
F. D. MILLER................. Managing Editor
C. M. PRATT................. Managing Editor
R. F. STIMSON............. Managing Editor
Z. N. SYFERT............... News Editor
V. A. CHEEK................. News Editor
P. B. BANKS................. Society Editor
J. E. DOUGLAS............. Sports Editor
W. A. GRIST................. Assistant Editor
J. M. McCONNELL....... Assistant Editor
C. S. McINTOSH........... Associate Editor
J. M. McCONNELL....... Associate Editor
J. M. McCONNELL....... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. F. STIMSON............. Circulation Manager
H. B. SMITH................. Subscription Manager
H. B. SMITH................. Solicitor
G. D. SMITH................. Solicitor
G. D. SMITH................. Solicitor
G. D. SMITH................. Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. M. McPEEK............. President
W. M. McPEEK............. President
W. M. McPEEK............. President
W. M. McPEEK............. President
W. M. McPEEK............. President
W. M. McPEEK............. President
W. M. McPEEK............. President
W. M. McPEEK............. President
W. M. McPEEK............. President
W. M. McPEEK............. President

DIFFERENT FORM BUT THE SAME SPIRIT
An ambition of several years standing has been realized by the present staff of The Davidsonian in the change from a five to a six-column newspaper. In reality, there has been a departure from the previous size both in dimensions and in page numbers, as is evident. There is a new type employed in the writing of heads, and finally, a more departmentalized journal has been arranged.

The reason for the new make-up is simply the demand for standardization of column size and the idea that a better and more modern publication would result from the addition of the extra column. Being a student publication, The Davidsonian can be improved only as the student body lends a hand and makes its likes and dislikes known. The “Open Forum” column is for this purpose.

On the surface there appears to be a changed newspaper, but underneath and back of it there lie the same traditions of “Old Davidson,” even though the cut of Chambers Building has been discarded; there, too, are the same high ideals and purposes that have always made the heritage of Davidson men a rich one, and they are constantly calling, as they have in previous years, “For a Better Davidson.”

TO 1932
Freshmen, having been welcomed by practically every organization in College, are now trying to get settled in their new homes to a sufficient degree to allow some study and a little sleep between smokers, house-parties and other entertainments of the rushing season. They have been advised as to how to do almost everything that any citizen of Collegia would ever have to do but there will develop with each day some circumstance which has no set rule to be followed and concerning which they will have to rely on themselves perhaps more than at any previous time in their lives. But this is necessarily so and good.

The purpose of this writing is not, however, to give advice on the manner of making a great success of the first year of college life in any of a number of activities but rather to set forth an idea of the relationship between freshmen and upperclassmen existing here. Every upperclassman has been a freshman and knows just what faces the members of the present class during this year. Every one of them can remember something of the temerity of those first days and will be found to be sympathetic, after a fashion, if he be approached in a friendly rather than in a rebellious manner. We are convinced that a better condition exists on the local campus, even with the evils sometimes attached to the Court of Control system, than is extant at other colleges and universities. The Freshman Regulations are not unreasonable and neither are they difficult to obey. They are a much better alternative than the brutality of typical hazing systems on other campuses.

A word of advice to the freshmen: Respect the upperclassmen by obedience to the regulations, if only for these two reasons:
1. They have already gone through the freshman stage and were subject to the same things that are bothering you.
2. They have done and are doing their part to boost their alma mater and are therefore worthy of respect from you new men who will have your turn during the following three or more years.

CHAPEL TO THE FORE
There are good possibilities in the petition presented to the faculty by a vote of the student body whereby the chapel hour would be in charge of students and yet there are some features which might not be worked out so well. That the form of service could be improved is acknowledged but as to whether the proposed manner would make for betterment is doubtful. If the plan as proposed by the instigators of the movement would place the leadership in the hand of some student each morning then it would hardly be a step forward. It would be variety but the demand is not to displace men of experience and ability by inexperienced student leaders just for the sake of variety. This method would soon fail to appeal to the student body because there would not be enough confidence and enough of faith in what was being said, and the attention would lag with numerous developing “colds” in evidence.

The proposal would be good if the intention is to obtain men from among the faculty, from the visitors to the campus and from other sources to lead the service. This would be variety and at the same time would bring seasoned thoughts and expressions before the men for their approval. There would be a greater degree of satisfaction than would ever be forthcoming following the amateurish efforts of student leadership.

STRAWS TO SHOW THE WAY. COLLEGIATE WINDSBLOW

Although a “straw vote” was conducted here last spring before the nominees of the Democratic and Republican parties had been presented to the general public, there seems to be such great interest in the collegiate world today to justify another balloting on the two leading candidates—Smith and Hoover. College Humor is sponsoring the movement throughout America among 900,000 college men and women in an effort to forecast the result of the November voting, and The Davidsonian is assisting in the general movement. The voting will be conducted in the rooms of the dormitories on Friday night and collected the next day. Everybody has a preference, so let's make it known!

Although we are all endowed with eyes, few of us see very well. We see what we are accustomed to see, and what we are told to see. To the rest of what is about us, we are largely anesthetic. We demand simple and apparently universal stereotypes with which to see the world. The purpose of this column is merely to place before the few readers of this column collegiate and national news with which most of us are not acquainted. If we make any conclusions, you are free to dispute them.

“Intellect,” says Will Durant in Transition, “is always dangerous in a woman.” Which we take to mean, dangerous to a man.

Last year, this column was headed with the title Ollapodrida. However, Shelly has informed us that “naught may endure but Mutability.” In order that this column might persist among our readers, we felt that a change in title as well as in substance was necessary. Chaucer gave us a suggestion in the Tale of Melibeus when he wrote, “Ye han cast alle hire wordes in an hochepot.” Accordingly, we have changed the title to Hotchpot. Our commonly used word hodgepodge is a corruption of hotchpotch and this of hotchpot.

In North Carolina, some politicians are reported “burying the hatchet for Smith.” We knew the hatchet was being buried, but thought the place of interment was the candidate himself.

The Kellogg-Briand pact, signed in Paris on August 27 by fifteen nations, was the fifth agreement of the kind signed in the past six years with the purpose of outlawing war. At Genoa, in May 1922, thirty nations adopted a resolution whereby they undertook not to commit aggressions upon one another. At Geneva, in September 1924, the assembly of the League of Nations adopted a protocol which bound the members to substitute arbitration for violence in the settlement of disputes. At Locarno, in 1925, France, Belgium, and Germany signed a pact which bound them never to make war upon one another, but to settle their controversies by arbitration. At Havana, in 1927, the Pan-American Congress adopted a resolution to taboo war as a means of furthering national policy. The tragedy of all this is that the very peacemakers are now talking of “preparedness” again and are afraid of moving one step in the direction of disarmament lest they should find themselves unarmed among their enemies. Great Britain and Ireland spent 77 million pounds on armaments between 1913 and 1914, and 85 million between 1926 and 1927. In spite of these many treaties and pacts between many nations, there is no sense of security from war in the mind of the average man and woman as far as we know anything about it.

If the country is as dry as the Republicans try to make us believe, and as wet as the Democrats claim, no one is greatly inconvenienced.

A Cornell graduate has offered the University one million dollars. The only stipulation that he attaches to it is that the Board of Trustees must abolish social fraternities from Cornell. The offerer is a former fraternity man. The Board has not yet met, but it is not likely that the money will be accepted.

Senator Heflin asserts that he is still a Democrat. Thus, he continues to put the party in bad costumes.

Also, they marveled at Bibi; Bibi, a French bull terrier, was her pet. He was dressed, not to his own, but to his mistress’ fancy. The finest of silk laces, the softest and warmest of velvet cloaks were placed upon him. But incessant pampering, perfumery, and sweetmeats killed him. Senora de Salva was heartbroken; she buried all of her jewels with Bibi. No longer did she take pride in her design of costumes; Bibi was gone. Such inordinate affection for a pet is foolish, yet only last year a Boston bull sailed with a maid in a first-class suite on the Leviathan to Paris for his spring clothes.

This column does not attempt to serve as the place for book reviews. Yet, readers of this would do well to read “Show Girl,” by J. P. McEvoy. It is something new in the realm of the American novel, emphasizing the wise-crack.

“I got home and believe me, those snow-covered grapenut fields looked good to a homesick little girl!” —V. of S. Calif. Wampus.

THE MUDWALKS OF DAVIDSON

Davidson's largest and most progressive afternoon newspaper presents for the amusement of its seven hundred and fifty-three subscribers and three readers (the editor, the typist, and the proofreader) an added attraction effect in this new column. The primary purpose of this column is, of course, to fill up space. A secondary purpose is to promote peace—by allowing the editor and other prominent members of the student body less space to use in the exchange of words on pressing campus questions. Remember the war of last May? On the Senior Gift affair? How the editor, fortified behind a barricade of plural “I's,” got in the last word, then refused to put out another issue of “The Davidsonian?” And that whole battle of typewriters was caused by an innocent reporter who violated the sacred code of all newspaper men and gleaned and wrote up the truth. “The truth must be carefully avoided at all times.”

WE WOULD LIKE TO KNOW

What has become of the corporation that sold us radiator rent tickets our freshman year? How are they going to run the World Series and the Chemistry lab without John Q.? Who sent a prominent member of the Davidson College faculty a bicycle on fifteen-day trial? Who has the government job of reading humorous magazines to determine whether or not they are fit matter to go through the mails? Which will be the most popular after next November: “Sidewalks of New York” or “How Dry I Am?”

FAMOUS EPITAPHS

She led a blameless life below, Death held for her no terror; And now she’s gone where lilies blow— No runs, no hits, no errors. —The New Yorker.

OUR OWN DEFINITIONS

An American—One who spends money he doesn’t make, to purchase things he doesn’t want, to impress people he doesn’t like. A Freshman—One who carries laundry, wears a red and black cap, looks dazed, etc., etc. In general, one who looks and acts as we did not so many eons previous.

Dear Fresh, Don’t be bashful. Order Nut Sundaes and Chocolate shakes. You won't be rushed all your life. Annie Laurie.

AGREED

I never thought that your most precious arms Would fold and hold me to you with delight; I never dreamed for me there were such charms, I never dreamed there were—and I was right! —California Pelican.

We have no doubt in the world but what Mr. Arthur Brisbane is quite an authority on stock market exchanges. Every morning we diligently read his comments—and his advice on stocks. They’re good, or, at least they sound good to us and to some thousands of other newspaper readers. That’s why Arthur always knows where the next nickel is coming from. But—we wager that fifty percent of his readers don't know a stock market from a meat market—and that the other fifty percent, together with about forty-nine percent of the above mentioned, wouldn't have money to buy standing room on Wall Street. “Advice is cheap.” Oh, yes, and it must be wonderful to be paid a big columnist’s salary to distribute advice. There ain't no justice!

To meet one of the most important of all student problems, we would like to present for approval the following device, which is certain to be popular in the collegiate world next fall: You've seen a man sandwiched between two covers of boards carrying advertisements to the effect of “Eat at the Pig and Whistle, etc.,” haven’t you? This is just the device we use for the relief of the collegiate world. Immediately upon arriving at the campus after summer vacation, the returning student dons his sandwich by sticking his head through the hole cut for his head. That's simple. The board in front is lettered after this manner:

If it isn’t my old friend, how are you, old man? Boy, I had a big summer. How about you? No, I'm eating at the hotel, sorry! Yeah, up for re-exams. Say, I met a girl this summer that you know. Let's see—I’ve forgotten her name—blond, rather medium height—yeah, that’s it. No, yes, no, yes, no, think not! Well, gotta get things straight. Mighty glad to have seen you. Be good.

This simplifies greetings to a mere matter of shaking hands twice. On the back of this labor-saving invention, are these words, which make life even more pleasant by saving the student the unpleasantness of thinking: “What was the fellow’s name? Seems like I should know him.”

FAMOUS QUOTATIONS

“Big fleas have little fleas, To light on them and bite ’em. Little fleas have lesser fleas, And so on, ad infinitum.”

Those who have trouble with keeping the correct time might remember that the average watch has 175 different pieces which required upward of 2,400 separate operations in its manufacture. The balance has about 18,000 beats per hour and 157,680,000 vibrations in one year. Estimating the length of one vibration, a watch travels approximately 3,558 miles in one year. Strange? Yes, but the old clock of St. Quentin in the Mayence struck the hours regularly for 500 years.

How peculiar that when one in a crowd looks at his watch, everyone wishes to verify his statement by looking at his own timepiece.