THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1928

Varsity Holds Debate Tonight
Decision Will be Rendered by Audience Attending Rather Than by Judges

Davidson will meet the University of Florida tonight in Shearer Hall at 8:00 o'clock in an intercollegiate debate on the
question, “Resolved, That the United States Should Cease to Protect Capital Invested in Foreign Lands Except by Formal Declaration of
War.” Davidson will uphold the negative side of the query. Davidson's representatives will be Leo Pritchett and Bob Kell. Pritchett
has been on the debating team for two years and has met such teams as Duke, Johns Hopkins, and others.
This is Kell’s first year as a varsity debater but he was on the freshman debating team. The decision will
be given by a vote of the audience rather than by judges and it is therefore urged that a large
number of the student body attend the debate in order to make the decision as representative of as widespread opinion
as possible.

W. K. Pritchett and R. C. Grady will leave Monday on a Northern trip, during which time they will debate
representatives of Hampden-Sidney, George Washington, and the University of Pittsburgh. Both of these men served on last year’s team and
were the ones who met Emory. All of the colleges which Davidson will meet are reputed to have strong teams
but it is felt that Davidson is capable of meeting any of them on equal terms.

Water Tank Moved to Manetta Mills

Davidson College poets are calling on the muses to help them phrase suitable lines for a poem to be known
as “The Passing of the Water-Tank,” which may rival James Whitcomb Riley’s epic of a similar title. A few more
days and this famous relic of the past will have been completely dismantled and removed to Monroe, N. C., where
it will be erected as a reservoir by the Manetta Mills. Since its erection in 1917, the Davidson water-tank has
been a favorite scene for college pranks. Athletic victories were commemorated by painting the scores in bold letters upon the
face of the tank, eighty feet in the air, where they were visible for considerable distances. Defeats, peculiarly enough, were
not recorded. Freshmen were prohibited from inscribing their class numerals on the tank under threats of serious penalties. Consequently, the
lowly fresh refrained. But, upper-classmen, under cover of darkness, climbed to the railing of the tank and emblazoned the freshman
numerals, leaving the hapless freshmen to explain as best they could this breach of tradition. Always the lowly freshmen got
the blame as well as the bill for paint which “Doc” Charlie, a negro employee of the college, used in
erasing the numerals. One aesthetic student is said to have climbed to the top of the tank on a moonlit
night to translate Grecian odes and love poems. Other students have been known to use the tank as a location
from which they made photographs of the campus and nearby fields. These photographs were later “palmed off” on unsuspecting victims
as genuine air photos. Freshmen have been known to make the perilous ascent to the crow’s nest of the tank
to satisfy a group of blood-loving sophomores. The tank has been known to overflow during the rainy seasons, and to
go completely dry when rain was scarce. At such times, the students sometimes were forced to go for days without
bathing. Those days have passed. The college now secures its water from the village reservoir, and the days of the
water tank are gone.

“Charge It”

They were climbing a lofty peak of the Alps, and she was standing a few feet above him. She turned
around and gazed in wonderment. “What,” he asked, “do you see?” “Far, far below,” she cried, “I see a long
sheet stretching like a paper ribbon almost back to our hotel.” “Ha, ha!” he ejaculated. “It’s that hotel bill overtaking
us.” —Clipped.

March 20th Set as Soph Banquet Date

An announcement was made at a meeting of the Sophomore class last week that the annual Soph Banquet would be
held this year on March 20th. No arrangements for the affair have been definitely completed, but the committee appointed by
Carl Pritchett are working on plans, and announce that they will be made public within a very short time. The
members of the class are looking forward to the affair and it promises to be this year as good or
even better than usual. Several places are being considered for holding the banquet and it is very likely that it
will be decided to hold it in Charlotte. The class is considering and working on several plans and activities, but
so far nothing of interest has been done or definitely decided upon and no statement for publication can be made
at the present time. Action is expected upon several matters of interest and importance within the next week or so
and they will be made public as soon as they are definitely acted upon.

A Child’s Version

Both science and history are taught to good effect in our schools. Although the facts in a child’s mind may
be somewhat disorderly, they are there, at any rate—in heaps. In one composition a pupil wrote: “Galileo discovered the law
of gravitation when an apple dropped on his head from the leaning tower of Pisa.”

Davidson Glee Club Has Mrs. Cullum Featured in Series oflaw of the pendu- | RE-EXAMS | Re-examinations, for the students
who have failed during the past semester or have presented an acceptable excuse of illness to the dean, will take
place on Friday, April 6th, at 2:30 p.m. All students, excepting the Seniors, will be allowed only one re-examination. Only
by special permission from the dean can a student take more than one re-exam. Those who desire to take the
examinations must pay a fee of $2.50 and make arrangements with Mr. Hengeveld and the professor in whose course they
failed; this must be done as soon as possible.

Eventful Tour of South | Solos The Davidson Glee Club returned from another tour of the South Wednesday, having included
five cities in the trip. While in Atlanta Sunday afternoon, the Glee Club occupied the Twilight Hour over Radio Broadcasting
Station WSB, a program having been presented on the air at WSB two years ago, when the club made its
initial tour of the South. Sunday, the Glee Club appeared at the Atlanta churches, assuming charge of the musical programs
during both morning and evening services. The club made the tour in busses and was entertained by Davidson alumni and
friends in the different cities. There were large audiences at every program rendered. The various places in which the Glee
Club appeared are listed below: Thursday—Anderson College, Anderson, S.C., auspices Anderson Glee Club. Friday—Atlanta Woman's Club, Atlanta, Ga., auspices Atlanta
Presbyterial. Saturday—Brown, Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Ga., auspices Senior class. Monday—Limestone College, Gaffney, S.C., auspices Senior class. Tuesday—Gastonia High School,
Gastonia, N.C., auspices Senior class. Forty men made the trip, in addition to Professor and Mrs. E.J. Cullum. Mrs. Cullum
was featured on the program with the Glee Club in a number of solos. This added considerably to the popularity
of the organization. Next week the Glee Club will be presented at the Carolina Theater, in Charlotte.

Grapplers Receive Letters as Awards At a meeting of the Athletic Council last night, seven varsity letters and one service
letter were awarded. The men honored were W.H. Flythe, F.R. Brown, G.E. Herriot, P.J. Garrison, J.B. Christenbury, Tom Brohard, T.E.
Hill, and A.W. Baker. L.K. Pritchett was awarded the service letter. The wrestling squad went through the season with only
two defeats, these reverses being suffered at the hands of the Virginia Military Institute contingent and the Duke squad. The
V.M.I. match was a close one, the final bouts clinching the argument in favor of the Cadets. The Duke match
was a little more one-sided, the Blue Devils holding a distinct advantage throughout the meet. The Duke meet also ruined
whatever hopes the Cats may have had for a state title. State and Carolina were defeated by the Wildcat matmen,
but the Duke squad, Southern title holders, proved too much for the Davidson men. In finishing second in the state,
over such teams as the Tar Heels and the Wolfpack, the Wildcats proved that they were no mediocre team. With
the promise of another coach to aid in the mat work, the Wildcats appear to have excellent prospects for next
season. Garrison and Pritchett will be the only two men lost to the squad. The loss of Captain Garrison will
be a severe one, since he could always be counted upon to acquit himself nobly in any encounter. He did
not lose a match the entire season, although he was held to a draw in both the V.M.I. and Carolina
meets. Garrison wrestled in the 149-pound class. Pritchett wrestled in the 139 class, and although not a varsity man, he
was called upon several times as a substitute. Tom Hill will captain the grapplers during the 1929 season, winning on
a close ballot from Flythe. Hill fills in rather successfully the heavyweight portion of the team. He wrestled in his
class this year, but during the 1927 season he met all comers in the unlimited division. The manager for the
team has not been chosen thus far. He will be selected during the fall of next year. On the wrestling
team, it is the custom to elect some letterman to fill this position.

Honest, at Least 'Twas the day before Christmas. Willie Jones broke a window with a snowball, sassed his mother, got
his new suit full of slush, broke the dial on the radio, and took father’s fountain pen to draw pictures
with. “Thank goodness,” sighed Papa Jones, “my boy is not a hypocrite!"—Life.

Their Start Alice—"Did, do you think George is making enough to support me?” Father—"Yes, dear. That's more than I was
making when I married.” Alice—"But do you think a seven-room house is large enough for us?” Father—"Certainly. Your mother and
I started fighting in three rooms.”

ACT 2 SCENE First Star—"They tell me you’ll endorse any cigarette for a consideration..." Second Star—"Sure, so long as the
consideration isn’t that I give up my Chesterfields. THEY’RE MILD and yet THEY SATISFY." ©1928, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
