THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 19, 1928

FRESH COMPETE
(Continued from page 1)

played in the line on the Freshman football team. Glidewell is a pledge to the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. His home is Reidsville, N. C. A committee of upperclassmen was appointed for the purpose of counting the votes. The members of this committee were Piggy Wearn, Hugh Arrowood, and Bob Kell. The Wednesday night meeting was held at 6:30, due to the fact that there was a basketball game between Davidson and Duke University. At some date in the near future, the president of the class will be installed on the Student Council, at which date the Freshman class will become formally a part of the student body, and as such will be allowed to take part in all voting and other student body activities.

“KING EXAM”
(Continued from page 1)

little too much on their trail, and that they really had more coming to them. With all these feelings, however, which are natural ones at a time like this, probably the one which strikes men most is the feeling that they should try harder to show their appreciation for the folks back home. The greatest thrill, after all, comes when Dad pats his son on the back during spring holidays, and says, “Son, we’re proud of you.” The culmination of a whole year’s work is bound up in these words, which help the college man to carry on to bigger and better things. Exams, bad as they seem, can be subjugated so that they no longer take on the aspect of monsters. The secret is no new one; it is a fact that is simply neglected by most boys. This is the point of studying before the last night. Exams seem worst when a fellow has to sit up all night before “boning.” If he would take advantage of his off days, of his spare time before the actual exam, then he could go into the final preparation with only a few minor details to conquer. He could cause a regular massacre over about Chambers building, because all he would have to do is pick up his tablet and start “shooting.” Incidentally, a little shooting of this nature here in college would help most men to hit the mark when they buck up against Old Man World, that Titan who takes such delight in tripping young fellows. Now is the time, and here is the place to get that necessary training in marksmanship.

Davidson Next Week
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
Emil Jannings in “The Last Command”
WEDNESDAY
Esther Ralston in “Love and Learn”
THURSDAY
Lois Moran and George O’Brien in “Sharp Shooters”
FRIDAY
Richard Barthelmess in “The Noose”
SATURDAY

Theatre “Y” Column
The Y vesper service this Sunday will be a program under the leadership of the C. E. T. C., which will include a devotional service and talks appropriate to the occasion. The following week the Ministerial Band will take charge of the service, and will have a similar program arranged. Since the Volunteer Band was represented in the service last week, when Allan Frew and Glenn Fry spoke, the three main religious organizations on the Hill will thus have been leaders of Y services. This will bring about a feeling that more are having a part in the work of the Y and will put a better spirit of fellowship in the Student Body.

The Y Board of Control has instructed the secretary to get out a booklet explaining the work of the Y in its different phases, fields, and the like. This pamphlet will include a brief report of what has been done by the Y in the past year and will also have much valuable information concerning the Master’s work on the Davidson campus. A copy of the booklet will be given to each student, trustee, and faculty member. It is hoped that this will prove a very valuable work, especially in that it is the first of its kind to be gotten up by the Davidson Y. M. C. A.

The student body, as well as the Y, has by this time all but finished one semester’s work. Much has been done in that time. Many new problems and difficulties have come into the life of each student. In many ways, it has been a testing period in the life of the men here. And it is the earnest hope of the Y that its work has not been for naught, but that the fellows have found in it an ever-ready friend and able adviser. It also hopes that something worthwhile has been gained, that His work and cause may grow and enlarge its scope until it becomes a vital and real thing in the life of every man on the campus. And it is with the sincere desire to attain this place in the hearts and minds of the men of Davidson that the Y starts the new semester.

GUILFORD, DUKE, FURMAN WIN
(Continued from page 1)

Jankoskie (19) G McAulay (4)
Gibson (5) G Crawford
Wilkins (3) G Harrison (2)
Substitutions—For Furman: Byrne. For Davidson: Hewlette (4), and Kugler. Referee: Rawson (Ga.); timekeeper: Mattox (W. & L.); score at end of half: Furman 17, Davidson 11.

Last Monday night, Coach “Pat” Crawford brought his hard-fighting Guilford squad up for a game and the visitors were again victorious. Using a fast passing and pivoting offense, the Guilford boys were able to eke out a bare 28-26 victory, the winning point being scored in the last minute of play. Although obviously young, the Guilford men seemed to have an uncanny ability to get their hands on the ball and keep it. The sphere was in their possession at least two-thirds of the entire time. Coltrane, running guard for the visitors, opened up in the last half and shot 9 points, giving him a total of 10 for the night. Haworth, forward, started off the game in whirlwind fashion, gettingThree baskets in the first few minutes, but Charlie Harrison soon tracked him down and Davidson was troubled with him no more. Pat Crawford had his men in fine shape, not a single substitution being made, yet the team looked able to keep up indefinitely the same regular pace that marked its playing. Captain Ben again was Davidson’s mainstay, but he shared honors with Johnny Kugler, flashy substitute forward, who sank four out of five tries from the field for 8 points. Kugler was the only man consistently following up the shots at the basket, and will probably see quite a bit of service before the season is over. The line-up:

Guilford. Position. Davidson.
Haworth (7) --------- McAulay (4)
Coble (5) ----------- Pritchett (6)
Moore (4) ----------- Wilson (8)
Yelverton (2) ------- Harrison
Coltrane (10) ------- Crawford

Substitutions—Guilford, none. Davidson: Hewlette, Kugler. Referee: Rawson (Ga.). Score at half: Guilford 12, Davidson 10.

“The Monroe Doctrine, instead of bringing the Latin-American countries into closer contact with the United States, had eliminated from the minds of Latin-American peoples all fear of aggression from any portion of the world but the United States.”—Leo S. Rowe, director-general of the Pan-American Union.

NORRIS TROPHY and it is a very great honor because of its widely known name, because of what it represents, and because of the trophy itself. The cup is a very handsome loving cup of considerable dimensions, with appropriate engraving upon it. It also becomes the personal property of the winner and makes a very beautiful keepsake. Last year the cup was won by Earnest Bohannon, of Davidson, N. C. Bohannon was a varsity football man and a varsity track man, and was quite prominent in both fields. He was also president of the Davidson College Athletic Association, and a prominent man in his class. The election this year will not be held until some time in the spring, but enthusiasm and interest have already been aroused among the students, and it will naturally grow to a much greater extent by the first of May. For anyone who is interested in the details and rules of the contest, a copy of the Rules of Award can be obtained from the White Drug Company by application. The cup will be put on display in the show window of the drug store at some time later in the year.

A statue erected to Matthew Fontaine Maury in Richmond, Va., recalls his services to the country. Maury’s nautical and meteorological observations aided not only the United States Navy but also the farmers of his day, and became the forerunner of the Weather Bureau. He was also one of the original progenitors of the United States Naval Academy.

Contrary to popular belief, the beaver is far from extinct in this country. There are 62,000 in Colorado and Montana alone, and the number is increasing.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Farley (8) --------- Harrison

Substitutions—For Duke: Chandler, Brantley, Bennett, Rogers, and Weaver. For Davidson: Kugler, Crawford (7). Referee: Gullickson; umpire: Rawson (Ga.). Score at end of half: Duke 26, Davidson 16.

Capt. Tim McCoy in “Spoilers of the West”

Do Europe Week After Next

MONDAY
On Friday, the 13th incidentally, the Furman Hurricane breezed in and annexed a game by the score of 33-25. Davidson’s play was considerably improved over the Duke game, but bad passing and wild shots again let a game get away. Captain Ben Wilson played a great game at guard, and had he not been so active in batting down opponents’ shots, the score would have been one-sided. Carl Pritchett found his eye and shot 13 points under very heavy guarding. Hewlette came through with a couple of field goals in this game. For Furman, Captain Dorman, with 11 points, and “Lefty” Huff, with 8, were outstanding.

The line-up follows:

Furman. Position. Davidson.
Huff (8) ----------- McAulay
Dorman (11) ------- Pritchett (13)
Brabham (6) ------- Wilson (6)

Our EUROPE
Sailing eastward from Montreal July 22, 1928, a happy group of college men and women will set out to “do” Europe in a campus-like atmosphere of good-fellowship, under the auspices of “College Humor.” Down the mighty St. Lawrence we'll go, and across the Atlantic—

Since 1868 the Home of Good Shoes

We Have A Complete Line of Drugs and Sundries

There are tournaments, races, masquerades, and a “house party at sea.” Then Europe! We'll see it under the guidance of the Art Crafts Guild Travel Bureau, originators of the justly famed Collegiate Tours. They will make all reservations, handle all details, furnish experienced couriers and guides. We just go along and enjoy ourselves! We sail homeward August 14 from Cherbourg on the famous Canadian Pacific liner.

$7.50 MAYHEW’S

CLEANERS AND DYERS
BUSINESS APPRECIATED
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED

Students, Our Plant is at Your Service
DICK GREY, Representative
Davidson, N. C.
Phone 82-3
E. N. LINKER, Owner