**The Davidsonian, February 23, 1928**

-:- Sport Talk -:-  
News and Views of Wildcat Events  
By Raymond Lake

Neither the varsity nor the freshman trip could very well be called a success. The big team took a trip lasting about eight days and played five games during that time, losing all of them except the one with the College of Charleston and the one with Wofford. The game with Furman was lost by only a few points, but, as the old saying goes, “a miss is as good as a mile.” The varsity are on their last trip now, and will close the 1928 basketball season tonight with their game with Guilford. Unless they show better form than they have shown during most of the season, the game tonight will in all probability end with the Wildcats on the bottom.

The Quakers won the first game from the Wildcats earlier in the season, and have a good chance to repeat their action if we can trust comparative scores and other equally as undependable indicators. However, it is not the custom of the Wildcat to begin a season poorly, play poorly during the season, and then end the season with a defeat, so we are looking for something better than usual in the result of tonight's game.

The freshman trip was not even as successful as that of the varsity. The freshmen played four games while they were gone and lost all four of them. Their trip, judging from the results of their games, might be called a total failure. From all the reports we can hear, however, the freshmen did not play badly; they were simply outclassed and were not able to show up against the better teams.

Looking back over that part of the sport year which has passed, one would be inclined to be blue over the past season as well as the prospects for the future. We must remember, however, that a small institution like Davidson cannot be expected to be outstanding in the sport world every year. Last year the Wildcats won the state championship in football and were unquestionably at the top of the North Carolina gridiron list, but as a result of the loss of so many of last year’s team, the Wildcats have had to accept a lower place this year. Every team must have its “downs” as well as its “ups,” and Davidson is now in one of her “down” periods.

Looks B. V.  
The style hit of the season in young men’s underwear. Reis “Jimshirts” and “Jimpants.” We have a pleasing variety of these fashionable “undies” to suit your individual taste. Fancy shirts in colors, awning stripe pants in combinations which please the eye and give comfort to the wearer. Come in and make your selection today.  
The Students Store  
“WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?”  
“IT’S YOURS; IMAGINE HOW HE”

Wildcat Matmen Leave Friday for Two Meets  
Grapplers to Close Season With Duke Match

The Wildcat wrestling team leaves tomorrow on their last trip of the season, which will include matches with State and Duke. The State team will be met in Raleigh on Saturday, February 25th, and then the Cats visit Duke, Monday, February 27th, to close their season. Strong competition and close scores are expected in both matches with a possible decision of the state championship resting on the final match.

State College lost one of their early matches to Carolina by a close score. Davidson beat Carolina 13 1-2 to 7 1-2, on February 4th. This gives the 'Cats a slight edge over the Wolfpack. However, the winner will come out with hardly enough advantage to glory over.

In the Duke match the odds are against the Davidson team. Duke defeated Carolina 24 to 3 and later romped on V. M. I. to the tune of 21 to 6. Although the ’Cats took Carolina down they lost to V. M. I. 13 1-2 to 9 1-2. Coach Tilson’s charges are all in good shape except for a few mat burns received in the Virginia trip. Frank Brown, wrestling in the 125-pound class, has a rather severe burn on his left arm that may hinder him slightly. Baker will wrestle the unlimited class in place of Christenbury, who will wrestle in the 165-pound class. Brohard was forced to go to the infirmary with an infected knee. The team leaves Friday afternoon for Raleigh and will return Tuesday morning. The Davidson line-up will be as follows: Flythe, 115 lb. class; Brown, 125 lb. class; Herriott, 135 lb. class; Garrison, 145 lb. class; Christenbury, 165 lb. class; Hill, 175 lb. class; and Baker, unlimited.

Davidson (37) Position Wofford (26)  
McAulay (2) ------------ Lockman (11)  
Forward  
Pritchett (19) ------------ Bagwell (4)  
Forward  
Wilson (10) ------------ Shuler (5)  
Center  
Harrison (2) ------------ Dargant (4)  
Guard  
Hewlett (2) ------------ Adams (2)  
Guard  
Scoring: Subs: Kugler (2).

INDIVIDUAL SCORES  
Pritchett 141  
Wilson 123  
McAuley 63  
Harrison 58  
Kugler 51  
Hewlett 35  
Crawford 9

Wildcat Quint Returns to Lair With Two Wins Taken From Five Trials  
Citadel, Furman, and Clemson Win Over ’Cats  
EXTENSIVE TRIP  
Wildcats Win Easily Over College of Charleston Team and Wofford Terriers

The Davidson College basketball team returned to the hill Saturday morning from an eight-day invasion of the Palmetto State with a record of two victories and three defeats, having won from the College of Charleston and Wofford, and lost games to The Citadel, Furman, and Clemson.

With a victory and a defeat behind them, the Wildcats took on Clemson College Wednesday night only to find that they were no match for the superior teamwork and playing of the Tiger cagers who, playing their last home game of the season, and aided by the brilliant playing of Hewitt, Clemson forward, wereable to win 35 to 24. Captain Wilson trailed Hewitt, high scorer, by one point. From Clemson, the Wildcat cagers journeyed to Greenville to take on the Furman University team only to be beaten again, but this time by a much closer score of 32-27. The Purple Hurricane got away for a big lead, but by the end of the half, they had caught up and the score was 12 to 14, the Wildcats leading. The opening of the second half again began with the Furman basketeers leading off and as before they gained a 12-point lead with their rally before the Wildcats stopped the scoring. Monk's cagers came back strong but the rally was too late, for they were never able to catch up with Furman’s lead and the game ended 32-27, Furman on the big end. In the last game, an adieu to the Palmetto State for the 1928 season, the Wildcats flashed a fast cage game in the second half of the tilt to win from Wofford by a score of 37-26. Wofford led with early scoring, but the Wildcats soon took the lead and the half closed 20 to 12. The second half only gave Davidson more opportunity for scoring and the game closed with the Wildcats well in the lead. The summary of last week’s games is as follows:

Clemson (35) Position Davidson (24)
McAuley Forward Hewitt (14)
Pritchett (2) Forward McGlone (8)
Wilson (8) Center Harrison (5)
Hewlett (2) Guard
Substitutions — Clemson: Eskew (7), O'Dell (8). Davidson: Kugler (2).

Furman (32) Position Davidson (27)
McAulay (1) Forward Dorman (12)
Pritchett (13) Forward Brabham
Wilson (7) Center Wilkins (8)
Harrison (4) Guard
Baker Guard
Substitutions — Furman: Black, Smith. Davidson: Kugler (2), Hewlett.

Pitchers and Catchers in Pre-Season Training Batteries Loosen Up Muscles for Early

Although baseball practice has not officially begun as yet, the call for pitchers and catchers has been issued, and the Davidson batteries are being whipped into shape. The pitchers are slowly but surely loosening the winter kinks out of their arms, and the catchers are getting loosened up so that they can catch the high fast balls and low out curves. The men who answered the call were: Pitchers, Maulden, Henderson, Kugler, and McInnes; catcher, McGeachy. In addition to these men, Cathey is expected out for the spring base in a few days, and Dick Grey and McAulay have expressed their intention to try out for the backstop position. Although it is rather early to make any predictions as to the strength of the team this year, it is certain that there should be no cause for evil forebodings. In the infield from last year’s team are Captain Dulin, Littlejohn, Johnny Kugler, Pat Crawford, and Charlie Harrison. In the outfield are Ratchford and Hal Johnson. From last year's Freshman team come Tut McConnell and Whiz Miller, in the outfield, and Henry Cox, in the infield. Manager Bob Link and his cohorts are getting the diamond in shape for the first game of the season with Oak Ridge, which comes on March 23rd. This game will open a season in which there are 21 games on schedule.

Sport Talk — News and Views of Wildcat Events By Raymond Lake

There has been quite a bit of talk on the campus for the last few days about a decision of the board of trustees relative to a course in physical education next year or in the near future. Though the details of the board’s decision are not definitely known, we do know that the current story about a compulsory physical education drill at 6:30 every morning is, in the common language of the campus, “a lot of bull.” The trustees did decide to have a physical director here in the next year or so, but his work will be conducted in a more practical manner and in a manner more suited to the needs of an institution of higher learning rather than a method which might suit the needs of a military school. Though there has been nothing definite about it given out yet, it seems to be a fact that the tennis team is planning a long southern trip which will be one of the best trips to be taken by a Davidson team. The trip has not been finally worked out yet, but it is probable that it will be quite an extensive one and that matches will be played with several leading teams of the South.

Prisoner (just back from trial)—“Hurrah, fellas! I’m crazy.”—Green Goat.

EASTER OPENING

JOHN N. PAUL, with his lucky tape and more than 500 Spring and Summer Patterns, will be at Norton’s Barber Shop, March 5th and 6th.

“Buy from PAUL He fits 'em all”

DAVIDSON’S SENIOR TAILOR

All-Expenses $375 INCLUDES: Ocean Passage Sight-seeing Good Hotels Usual Meals All Tips Abroad

To College Men and Women

Next summer! Up in Montreal a swift ocean liner awaits us, to sail Europe-ward with a happy group of college-age men and women who will “do” Europe in a campus-like atmosphere of informal fellowship, under the auspices of College Humor Magazine. The week's voyage will be a party at sea with a famous American college orchestra to furnish music. Then Europe!—with three days in London, plenty of time for Shakespeare and Oxford, busy days in Belgium, and Paris for five glorious days and six tumultuous nights! All travel arrangements by the Art Crafts Guild Travel Bureau. Membership is limited. For details, hurry and mail us the coupon below.

College Humor’s COLLEGIATE TOUR to EUROPE

MAIL THIS COUPON FOR FULL DETAILS

College Humor, 1050 N. La Salle St., Chicago, IL

Please send me complete information regarding College Humor’s Collegiate Tour to Europe.