THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1928

Pi Kappa Phi Entertains as Frats Stage House Parties

On Saturday, March 17th, the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity will be host to all fraternities on the campus at a tea given at their home. The tea will be from 4:30 to 6:00 o'clock Saturday evening. The usual refreshments will be served to the guests comprised of the fraternity men of Davidson and any girls who may be their guests here then. In the opinion of several prominent men, the tea should do much to further inter-fraternity good feeling, especially because on this weekend most of the fraternities here will be entertaining guests at house parties. It is reported that at least several of the members of the faculty are also expected to be present at the tea. Guests are invited to drop in any time between the hours specified for the affair.

Another feature of the weekend will be a formal invitational entertainment given by the Delta Theta Chi Fraternity, at the New Charlotte Hotel, in Charlotte, on Friday night. All fraternities will have representatives at this affair.

Crawford Will Not Join N. Y. Giants This Year. Former Wildcat Athlete to Retain Coaching Position

This news item has been noted before in local newspapers, but is considered worthy of repetition, because of its interest to Davidson students. Pat Crawford, former Davidson athlete, “Y” worker and general outstanding man about the campus of days gone by, has been receiving and consistently refusing for the past few years an offer that comparatively few men have had the opportunity of considering, namely, the offer of a position on that famous baseball aggregation, the New York Giants. This offer was tendered by John McGraw himself, while touring the South Atlantic States in search of promising players in the “Sally” league and elsewhere.

Crawford’s record while a student at Davidson is well-known to most of the old men, but to those unfamiliar with his past, suffice it to say that he was a member of the football team; captain of the basketball team, landing an all-state berth as guard; captain of the baseball team, also winning all-state honors in this sport. In addition to his achievements of an athletic nature, he took an intense interest in the religious work of the campus, filling the job as president of the Y. M. C. A. worthy and well. Among the reasons given to a Davidson reporter in a brief interview with “Fonnie” Crawford, brother of Pat, for the refusal of McGraw’s offer were his present contract as coach at Guilford College, where he is turning out splendid teams for that institution; and what is believed to be the chief reason, the fact that due to the Christian training received in his home and at Davidson College, Crawford did not feel that he could conscientiously play ball on Sunday, a thing that he would necessarily be obligated to do in the event of his acceptance. It is to be feared that few of us would let moral or religious scruples stand in our way if we were confronted with a similar proposition, and Pat Crawford should be highly commended for his firmness in abiding by the dictates of his conscience. This is a splendid trait in any man, and one that is certain to lead to success.

Prizes Awarded To Davidson Students

“The Charlotte Observer” recently offered cash prizes to the public for the best letters written on capital punishment. Hugh White, of Davidson, who wrote both for and against capital punishment, was awarded the third prize of $5 for the best letter on the negative side of the question. F. D. Miller and J. R. Covington wrote on the affirmative side, and received two tickets each to the Carolina Theater for their honor mention letters. The first prize offered was $15 for the affirmative and $15 for the negative.For the negative; the second prize was $10 for the affirmative and $10 for the negative; the third prize offered was $5 for the affirmative and $5 for the negative. Seven hundred letters in all were received, 50 of which were honor letters. These letters are in daily in the “Observer.”

Many Students Active In Various Types Of Mission Work

There is a phase of work going on at Davidson that rarely edges its way into the news column. This is community mission work. Their territory extending over a radius of some ten miles, several students of the college carry on this religious mission work regularly. For many years there have been students in the college who are willing to take the lead in such work and carry it on. The mill section, the nearby convict camp, several surrounding chapels and Sunday Schools are some of the beneficiaries of this work. The Y. M. C. A. sponsors these activities but it would be impossible for the “Y” to carry them on without the invaluable aid in the leadership of several students. Among those most actively engaged in this type of service are L. K. Pritchett, DeWitt Helm, Bob Kell, John Foster, John Melton, Carl Pritchett, Russell Nunan, and J. T. Mathews.

Leo K. Pritchett has for two years taken the leadership in the work done at the convict camp. He goes weekly to the camp, taking old magazines given through the kindness of the students. He has a little organization among the convicts themselves by which they are enabled to study the Sunday School lesson. Pritchett usually talks to the men about once a month and at other times procures various students and faculty members to aid him. From time to time a few of the students help him in supplying instrumental music. It was the fate of the reporter to be picked up by an ex-convict, while bumming in South Carolina. This man had been in the camp at Huntersville and was free in his praise of the work that has been carried on by Davidson students there.

The Davidson College Glee Club

Under the direction of the new musical director, Professor Cullius, the Davidson songsters and musicians have enjoyed one of the most successful seasons since the organization of the Glee Club. They have recently returned from a trip to Atlanta where they entertained the Agnes Scott girls and were heartily received by the radio audience of WSB. They completed yesterday a three-day engagement with the Carolina Theatre of Charlotte.

DeWitt Helm has been active in directing the work among the mill people living on the other side of the railroad. This work has been carried on quite a while under the co-operative guidance of the church and the Y. M. C. A. Sunday School is held each Sabbath afternoon and Helm or some other student talks in the evening. Helm conducts a weekly prayer service on Wednesday night.

Since the Frances Smith disappearance from Smith College, Wellesley students are checked every night at ten o'clock to make sure that they are in their rooms. This check-up has aroused the indignation of the misses and they question in an editorial, “Is Wellesley a Day Nursery?”

Listed under a group of “radical changes” which have been recommended to the Board of Trustees of Mercer is one providing “That the president of the university shall be the sole executive of the institution, clothed with full authority and responsibility only to the board of trustees.” The professors are probably tired of long, drawn-out faculty meetings.

NOT ONLY MILD, BUT A MILD CIGARETTE THAT SATISFIES!

Reason enough you'll find for CHESTERFIELD’S immense popularity. We state it as our honest belief that the tobaccos used in Chesterfield cigarettes are of finer quality and hence of better taste than in any other cigarette at the price.

Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

CHESTERFIELD CIGARETTES