THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1928

SOCIAL

Harem Of Thomas

SCABBARD AND BLADE PARTY

The “M” Company of the Fifth Regiment, of the Scabbard and Blade military fraternity, held its meeting Monday night, May 7th, in the form of a social entertainment for the members and the wives of members of the staff of the R.O.T.C. department of the college. At various times during the year Mrs. Daugherty, Mrs. Elkin, and Mrs. Otto have graciously entertained the members, and this affair took the place of a return social. By way of entertainment, a mock initiation was given by the members. Delicious refreshments were served, and as favors to the ladies, attractive miniature swords were given with the Scabbard and Blade insignia mounted upon the scabbards. The affair was held at the Phi Gamma Delta House and marked the high spot of Scabbard and Blade social life of the year.

PHI GAM BANQUET

Delta Kappa chapter of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity held its annual banquet Saturday night, May 5th, at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. The dining room of the hotel was made attractive for the occasion by means of shaded lights and added potted plants. The table was decorated in the fraternity color, royal purple. Covers were laid for 65 guests, for besides the local chapter, many alumni were present. A six-course dinner was served, and at various times during the evening, short speeches were made by the guests and the student members. Dr. T. W. Lingle acted as toastmaster.

N. C. C. W. DANSANT

It was noted that quite a number of Davidson boys who were in Greensboro for the past weekend attending the state track meet were present at N. C. C. W. Saturday evening at a dance drama given by the Rhythm class of the school, which forms a climax to their year’s work. Various forms of the terpsichorean art were presented to the audience. Besides a large number of people from Greensboro and visiting people, many girls from the college itself were in the audience.

Kappa Alpha chapter of Theta Upsilon Omega held a formal banquet on May 5th at Efird’s dining hall, Charlotte. O’Key Allison, ’23, master of the alumni chapter, acted as toastmaster. Features of the banquet especially interesting were the fraternity and college songs, the main address of the evening by J. M. Appleby, ’26, the farewell address of the retiring master, J. W. Reid, and the short talks by the new officers. At the opening of the banquet, one of the fraternity songs composed by R. S. Lowrance, ’28, was sung. This was followed by a toast to the absent brothers. The new master of the chapter, W. E. Phifer, welcomed the alumni, and W. E. Milton, ’26, replied for the alumni. Each of the new officers then made a short talk, discussing somewhat the plans for the new year. Dr. McClung, of Charlotte, a graduate of Westminster, was the guest of honor. The closing song, “College Ties,” was most impressive, especially to the four men who graduate this year.

QUEEN’S JUNIOR PROM

The Junior Class of Queens College was hostess to the Senior Class and to their invited guests at the annual Junior Prom on Friday evening, May 4. The reception was held on the West Lawn at the college, and the campus was made beautiful for the occasion by strings of garden lanterns and potted lawn plants. Punch was served.

A third wildcat made her debut in the Davidson lair when Ben Withers, of Charlotte, class of ’29, brought her to Junior Oratoricals. With the cat came a well-constructed cage, painted black and trimmed in red. Min is now no longer certain of the unstinted affection of Tom. With the advent of this second feminine wildcat, the eternal triangle enters fields other than human. To the modiste shop goes Min to have her natural beauties brightened up, but the new belle says she will not resort to artificial means of winning the attention of the handsome Tom, but will depend entirely upon her captivating fierceness. Min is the home-loving, home-making, vine-clinging type. But the new mistress has all the characteristics of the modern wild flapper and will take Tom by storm if he doesn’t keep a level head. The new member of Thomas’ harem has not been officially named. If the wildcats increase as steadily in number as they have been during the last twelve months, the mascot den will become quite thickly populated. The first cat to take the place of Faithful Felix, who passed into the great beyond last summer, was obtained for the nominal sum of thirty dollars through the efforts of Cheer Leader McGee. The second to grace the campus was sent from Georgia by Hansell Watt, of the class of ’01, as a result of the Florida game last fall.

Montreal, Can. (By New Student Service) — Stephen Leacock, better known as a humorist than as professor of economics at McGill University, was hardly joking when he told the University of Pittsburgh students that their Cathedral of Learning, or “high-up building,” as he calls it, is all wrong. “I should prefer the dream life and elm trees of the old college campus to anything the Cathedral of Learning might offer,” he said.said. “Your campus will be rubber trees on the fiftieth floor and the shaded lanes will be elevator pits. “I have realized that the world has changed since my youth. When I first heard of the proposed design for the Cathedral of Learning I could hardly believe that so extraordinary a building would be put into actual effect. Now I begin to think that my ideals and those of the older generation will go the same path as prejudices and hates. “But even up there on the fiftieth floor,” Mr. Leacock admitted, “you will be doing characteristic work. We can, like the White Knight in ‘Alice in Wonderland,’ learn to think upside down if we only know how.”

The most indifferent man in the world is the one who signs “Moonbeam, Kiss her for me.”

“Saw a woman on the street with one side of her face entirely black.”
“Impossible.”
“O yes, the other side was too.”

“Did you notice Booth in his new uniform today?”
“Yes, it was ripping.”

by members of the Sophomore Class in a rustic summer house, attractively decorated with vines and lanterns. The main feature of the evening’s program took place soon after the guests had been received by the Faculty and consisted of progressive dates. During the dates, music was furnished by the Queens College Friskies. A delicious salad course was served to the guests at the conclusion of the evening's entertainment. During the evening several dances were given by members of the Sophomore Class. A large number of Davidsonians were guests at the affair. The Prom, occurring at Queens annually, is the highlight of social life. And because of the large number of Davidson students usually present, it has come to be a prominent social event at both colleges.

FELLOWS!
You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at
Anderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Increasing Rapidly

“JOHN Q’S DOPE (Continued from page 2)

presented a feminine canine tempter to the crooks as a result of Mr. Sharkey’s reversal of form. It seems to us that Mr. Victor Aldridge, Giant hold-out, has hung up a white flag. “Jawn” McGraw has ordered the Hoosier school teacher to Cincinnati for a little chat concerning his pitching troubles. As Mr. Aldridge needs the Giants and the Giants need Mr. Aldridge, we hope that a settlement can be made and they will sign a truce for good.

Mr. Horace Greely once said, “Go west, young man,” or something like that. The young athletes of the Eastern baseball clubs have followed his instructions to the letter by migration to the Western cities. The only trouble is that in about two weeks they will become tired and return to the civilized East. Thus Mr. Greely’s well-intended advice will go on the rocks.

Mr. Hype Igo, of the New York World, in a series of articles, says that Mr. William Harrison Dempsey will fight again. Hurrah for the ballyhoo stuff. Let us hope that this gentleman is right!

This summer the good old U.S.A. will have a big time in the Olympic games unless the rejuvenated Germany spoils everything for her. Germany has given the Olympic committee 200,000 marks for its use in the preparation for these Greek games. If money means anything, they seem to be pretty well bent on winning this year in Amsterdam.

Pete—“That is, er-ah, sir, I have been going with your daughter five years.”
Father—“Well, what do you want, a pension?”

Lake And Kirkland Selected As Student Store Managers.

New managers of the Student Store have taken charge as all other newly elected and appointed officers of the student body. The new managers for the next year are C. R. Lake and L. D. Kirkland, both of whom are rising Seniors. C. R. Lake is the buying or supervising manager, and L. D. Kirkland is the bookkeeping manager. These new managers took charge on the first of May, relieving the old managers, who were J. L. McGee and J. R. McCravey, Jr. Lake is from Greenville, Miss., and has been prominent on the campus since entering. He belongs to the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and is very popular on the campus. L. D. Kirkland is from Durham, N.C. He belongs to the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity and has also been prominent in campus affairs. The management of the Student Store is in the hands of a faculty committee which is made up of several members of the faculty and the two retiring business managers of the store. Any rising Senior may apply for the position by giving his application to the business manager, who in turn will submit it to the committee which decides on the men for the positions. Lake and Kirkland were chosen out of a number of men who applied for the position.

Older—“I just had my face lifted.”
Younger—“Nobody would steal such a thing as that.”

“I just didn’t get the brakes,” said the flivver as it rolled down the hill and draped itself over a stone wall.

We are told that love is blind,
But we know ’tis true,
That love can see upon a single chair,
Sufficient room for two.

Piping Rock is a new Piping Rock—An Exceptionally Smart Spring Suit Fabric. Can you visualize a suit of a hard, stiff fabric about as uncomfortable as armor plate? Nothing could drape better, tailor better, or look more luxurious. You'll like the new and wonderful ideas in patterns and colors for spring. Piping Rock Suits Exclusive With Society Brand Tate-Brown Co.

IT’S THE CUT OF YOUR CLOTHES THAT COUNTS

Mother's Day — May 13th
Candies and Flowers