Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN November 1, 1928.

MINISTERIAL BAND DIRECTS VESPERS

The Y. M. C. A. vesper service, conducted by the Ministerial Band, on Sunday evening, was a change from the
usual vesper service, in that it was entirely in the hands of the students. No speaker was included, and the
program consisted largely of songs, responsive readings, and prayers. A special solo by Mrs. H. M. Moffett was a very
enjoyable feature of the meeting, which was characterized by thoughtful and earnest devotion of all the students in attendance. E.
P. Moye, president of the Ministerial Band, was in charge of the meeting, while F. D. Miller, after some appropriate
remarks on the “Praise of God,” read the 146th Psalm, which is a psalm of praise. Cecil Lawrence led the
responsive reading.

New Library Books

Very recently quite a number of new books were received in the library. Some of the best are listed below:
“Europe,” by Count Hermann Keyserling; “Safari,” by Martin Johnson; “Andrew Johnson—a Plebeian and Patriot,” by Prof. Robert W. Winston; “English
Men and Manners in the Eighteenth Century,” by A. S. Turberville; “Life and Times of Peter Stuyvesant,” by Hendrick Willem
Van Loon; “Investments,” by David S. Jordan; “Trivial Breath,” by Elinor Wylie; “Cardinal Ideas of Isaiah,” by Charles E. Jefferson;
“Some Modern Poets,” by Edward Davison; “The American and German University,” by Charles Franklin Thwing; “The Classical Tradition in Poetry,”
by Gilbert Murray; “Folk Beliefs of the Southern Negro,” by Newbell Niles Puckett; “Problems of the Pacific,” by Condliffe; “Disraeli;
Alien Patriot,” by E. T. Raymond; “Thomas Beckett,” by W. H. Hutton; “Ireland and England,” by Edward R. Turner; “Principles
of Transportation,” by Johnson, Haebner, and Wilson; “Historical Sketches of the Holston Valleys,” by Thomas W. Preston; “Unfathomed Japan,” by
H. W. Foght and Alice R. Foght; “A History of the American Drama from the Civil War to the Present
Day,” by Arthur R. Quinn; “Elizabethan Lyrics,” by Norman Ault; “Sir Isaac Newton,” by S. Broditsky; “W. E. Gladstone,” by
Osbert Burdett; “Doctor Arnold of Rugby,” by Arnold Whitridge; “Sir John Hawkins,” by James A. Williamson; “LaFayette,” by Henry Dwight
Sedgwick; “Soldier of the South,” edited by A. C. Inman; “Greek Thought in the New Testament,” by George Holley Gilbert;
“Book of American Lyrics,” by Caroline Wells; “The Road to Plenty,” by W. F. Foster and Waddill Catchings.

Juniors and Sophs First in Basketball

As a result of the Seniors’ win last Friday night over the Juniors, and the Sophs beating the Freshmen, the
interclass basketball tourney is all tied up. The Juniors and Sophomores were leading with two wins and one loss each,
and the Seniors and Freshmen were jointly occupying the cellar. Both had lost two games and won one. Despite the
fact that they are tied with the Sophomores, the Juniors are the best team in the race. They played against
the Seniors without the services of McGavock, their regular center. His playing was missed a great deal. Without him, the
Juniors will be seriously handicapped. The Soph team is a very good aggregation, but it is just a bit below
the Juniors. The Sophomores have the power to beat the Seniors and Freshmen, but they will win by close scores.
But against the Juniors, they were almost smothered. They should finish in second place easily, but will hardly beat the
Juniors. The real battle will be between the Seniors and the Freshmen for third place. The Seniors put a revised
lineup on the floor Friday night and it showed some good playing. They are apt to show somebody some trouble
yet. Their game was the best they have played so far. The teamwork was pretty and they seemed able to
put the ball through the hoop with enough regularity to win. However, the Freshmen have improved remarkably since their first
game and if they keep on coming they are likely to finish in third place. The Seniors and Freshmen and
the Juniors and Sophomores mix things tonight. The winner of the Junior-Soph game will probably finish in first place, and
the winner of the Senior-Fresh should come in third.

INTER-CLASS Basketball Standings: (Through October 26th)

Teams Played Won Lost P’Ct.
Juniors 3 2 1 .667
Sophomores 3 2 1 .667
Seniors 3 1 2 .333
Freshmen 3 1 2 .333

(Continued from page 1)

what they are getting and are therefore often disappointed. Misleading reviews are chiefly responsible for this. In the first days
of literature, men needed but one book, but now many are needed to satisfy everyone's taste. Novels are now the
most far-reaching and universal form of literature in the world. The novel, like all living and developing forms, has evolved.
Few of its progenitors would be recognized as novels, since at the time of their writing they served purposes entirely
different from that of the novel. The first novels were very simple and natural. There are three types of novels:
the objective (concerning things), the social (concerning people), and the subjective (concerning the inner self). All of these survive in
numerous forms and combinations. The division of the novel into subjective and objective phases forms the basis for realistic and
romantic writing. In the romance, the author controls the plot and its outcome, while in the realistic novel, life is
represented as it really is. At present, the romance is returning to favor after a period of great interest in
realism. Differences from previous novels are evident, however. Often the writer blends his realistic and romantic elements, creating a new
artistic pattern. The formula for finding the right novel is to understand the type of story being written and the
purpose it serves.

FIVE SENIORS WIN (Continued from page 1)

T. E. Hill was elected captain of the wrestling team after performing in a brilliant manner last season. He has
proved himself a good student, having been placed on the honor roll several semesters. He has been secretary and vice-president
of the Ministerial Band and has devoted much of his time to work along religious lines on the campus. He
was chosen by the Student Council as a senior member of the Court of Control. Recently he was elected by
the Davidson faculty as a candidate for a Rhodes scholarship. C. B. Lake has distinguished himself as manager of the
student store and as judge of the Court of Control. His work in the literary field has been extensive and
he now holds the position of associate editor of The Davidsonian and is a member of Delta Pi Kappa and
a wearer of the “Golden Quill.” He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. E. R. McConnell has
played two years on the varsity football squad. His place on the honor roll marks him as a student of
excellent quality. McConnell has been active in intercollegiate debate and in oratorical contests. He is president of the International Relations
Club and represented Davidson at its annual convention recently. He was recently chosen for membership in Scabbard and Blade military
fraternity, being a first lieutenant in the R. O. T. C. unit here. He was also chosen to compete for
the Rhodes scholarship from Davidson. He is a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity. A. N. Myers was secretary and treasurer
of the Junior class and in his sophomore year was elected president of the class. He has been active in
the Y. M. C. A. and is a member of the track team. He is also a member of the
Phi Delta Theta fraternity.

PRESS CONVENTION (Continued from page 1)

dress the convention in the chapel at Queens. Leaving Queens, the delegates will barely have time to make the five
o'clock picture show at the Carolina Theatre, the management of which theatre has offered complimentary entrance to the convention delegates.
The last event on Friday will be a dinner, followed by a dance at the Hotel Charlotte. This dinner and
dance is given with the compliments of the Observer Printing House. Promptly at eleven, the dancing will be terminated and
the delegates will all return to Davidson, being again transported by the Bierman Engraving Co. Of the business session, on
Saturday morning, the most important part will be the discussion groups. These discussion groups are probably the most important things
of the convention in the way of advancement. There are to be five: annual editors, managing editors, business managers, newspaper
editors, and magazine editors. The majority of these will be entirely controlled by students, although it has seemed best to
have such ones as the business managers, assisted by some of the representatives of the printing and engraving companies, present.
Julian S. Miller, the editor of the Charlotte News has agreed to speak, in the business session of Saturday morning.
With the Saturday luncheon at the Maxwell Chambers hotel, the sixteenth session of the N. C. C. P. A. will
be terminated. This luncheon is being sponsored largely by the Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company.

DEMON DEACONS (Continued from page 5)

The summary and line-ups follow:

Wake Forest Position Davidson
Left End Brock
Left Tackle Grant
Left Guard Harper
Center McConnell
Right Guard Smith
Right Tackle BakerDavid Right End Quillen
Goodykoontz Quarterback
Brohard Left Halfback
Kell Right Halfback
Fraley Fullback

Score by periods:
Wake Forest 0 6 12 7—25
Davidson 0 0 0 6—6

Scoring touchdowns: Wake Forest, Quillen (2), Cox, Gibson. Davidson: Kell. Point after touchdown, Taylor (pass from Quillen).

Substitutions: Wake Forest, Prifer, Denton, Captain Weir, Woodward, Hauser, Dorsett, Burroughs, Hackney, Cox, Mills, Lennon, Bell. Davidson: Leftwich, Parker, DeCamp,
Fl. Covington, McMillan, Middleton, R. Covington.

Officials: Referee, Carrington (Va.); Street (Auburn), head linesman; Levine, umpire; Boatwright.

Warden: “Rastus, you know you hang tomorrow. What do you wish for your last meal?”
Rastus: “I b'lieve I would lak a piece of watermellun.”
Warden: “But they are not ripe for another six months.”
Rastus: “Dat's alright, Boss. I kin wait.”

He: “Gee, I’m hot.”
She: “Don't brag.”

Dr. Wilson Lectures On Edgar Allan Poe
Poe Represented as a Man of Many Paradoxes

A paradoxical lecture on a paradoxical man is an exact characterization of Dr. James Southall Wilson's speech on the personality
of Edgar Allan Poe to the class in English 4, Monday, October 29. It was a paradoxical lecture because, though
sympathetic in every note, it was exact in every detail; and though intellectual in its composition, it was appealing in
its presentation.

Poe’s personality, according to Dr. Wilson, is the most discussed, most contradicted, and most dark of that of any man
of American literature: a Hamlet he is to all generations. In a few words, he was a paradox to humanity,
denying most charges made against him, he wrote them plainly in his life as true. All his old biographers were
moral partisans; they took their own idealization, or condemnation, and around it fashioned his personality, using the facts of his
life to accomplish their personal ends.

At this point Dr. Wilson ran through a sketch of Poe's life, pointing out the circumstances which he believes had
a great influence on the personality of the poet and author. Having thus considered the frame, Dr. Wilson turned to
the picture, portraying the physical characteristics of the literary artist with beauty of touch. A contrast was made between the
man when his spirit was at rest and when it was stirred by the fire of opposition or of dissipation.
Dr. Wilson stated that there is no blanket statement which can cover with truth Poe’s habits of drunkenness, since he
was not regular or consistent in his drinking.

Poe was characterized as an intellectual aristocrat by choice. He was also by choice a Virginian and a Democrat; an
Episcopalian by birth. A man of immense energies, he was very prolific in literary hack work. Generous with his money
and his critical defense of young authors such as Hawthorne and Lowell, he was easily fired by a seeming injustice
in a criticism of his own or of others' writings. The author’s best defense was penned by himself in the
poem, “To Helen,” which describes physical beauty, intellectual beauty, and spiritual beauty. With a powerful and emotional reading of this
poem, Dr. Wilson closed his address. —F. D. M.

Explanation Made of “Point System”
Is Used Solely for Division of Offices and Responsibilities

Very few members of the student body, and certainly none of the Freshmen, know exactly what the point system really
is. There is a vague belief to the effect that the point system is a means of becoming eligible to
a bid from Omicron Delta Kappa. This is a delusion.

In February, 1926, Roland Parker, O. D. K., presented to the student body a recommendation to the effect that the
following point system be incorporated in the constitution. This point system is in use today. The sole purpose of the
point system is to prevent one man’s holding too many of the more responsible positions of the student body at
one time or at all, lest his various duties overload him with weight and responsibility. No man is permitted to
hold two 5-point positions, or hold positions totaling more than ten points. In this way, in addition to the lessening
of responsibilities, there is a more even division of the honors.

The point system in usage is as follows:
President of the Student Body—5 points.
President of the Y. M. C. A—5 points.
President of the Athletic Association—5 points.
President of the Senior Class—5 points.
Editor of the “Davidsonian”—5 points.
Editor of the “Quips and Cranks”—5 points.
Manager of Football—5 points.
Manager of Baseball—4 points.
Manager of Basketball—4 points.
Manager of Track—4 points.
Editor of the “Chameleon”—4 points.
Business Manager of the “Davidsonian”—3 points.
Business Manager of “Quips and Cranks”—3 points.
Business Manager of the “Chameleon”—3 points.
Judge of the Court of Control—3 points.
President of the Glee Club—3 points.

This point system went into effect with the class of ’27, and has been in effect ever since. As to
the reference of the point system to O. D. K., the fraternity has an entirely different method of choosing its
members and the ones eligible for membership. Their grounds for membership are well known to all, but their canon of
membership is secret.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers
BARNETT and COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Class Track Meet Held Today

For the first time in the history of Davidson College athletics, a track meet is to be held during the
fall semester. This track meet is to be held this afternoon, beginning at about four o'clock. The meet will take
the form of interclass competition, and keen rivalry between various classes is expected.

Because of the number of entrants in the different events, it was necessary to hold preliminary tryouts yesterday afternoon, and
the winners of these preliminaries will compete this afternoon in the finals. Points will be scored as follows: first place,
five points; second place, three points; third place, two points; fourth place, one point. Prizes will be awarded to the
winners of the first three places.

An innovation in interclass track meets will be introduced this afternoon, when novice events will be held in the field
events. These events are open to any member of the student body who has never won a place in a
scholastic or an intercollegiate track meet, and prizes which are awarded this afternoon have been donated by local and Charlotte
merchants. A similar meet will be held in the spring before the regular track season begins, and a cup will
be awarded to the class winning the meet. One of the big reasons for holding these class meets is to
promote student body interest in track, and to assist the coaches in uncovering prospective varsity material.

Sailor (after having met run-away husband): “He isn’t much of a mate.”
Another Sailor: “More like a skipper, I'd say.”

A luxurious round of entertainments for the Press Convention here has been provided by the courtesy of Charlotte and local
business firms. A banquet at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel here tonight at 8:00 o'clock begins the program. This will be followed
by a trip to the Davidson Theater, sponsored by Stough Brothers, where Don Terry and June Collyer are displaying their
film wares in “Me, Gangster.” Tomorrow noon the delegates will be entertained at a luncheon at the Myers Park Club,
whence they will motor to Queens College, where they will sip tea for an hour with the coveted queens. At
5:00 a special show will be given them by the Carolina Theater, where Glenn Tryon and Barbara Kent are suffering
the usual amorous agonies in “Lonesome;” there is also a Keith vaudeville number. The last social event of the convention
will be a luncheon with special features at the Maxwell-Chambers, Saturday at 12. This last gaiety adjourns the meeting, and
after it the home migration will begin.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Wildcat Belts
W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DO YOU HAVE AN INSURANCE COUNSELLOR?

An Insurance Counsellor is a man trained to render you a professional service which will provide adequate protection consistent with
savings in both time and money. Our organization is represented by just this type of Insurance Counsellor—men who will be
glad to consult with you for your protection.

McAlister Carson (’13), Mgr.
M. B. Speir, Jr. (’26)

Get Your SCHOOL SUPPLIES
at the Davidson Book & Stationery Co.
New Victor, Columbia, and Okeh Records Every Week

YOURS FOR SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
Make Our Store Your Headquarters
“EVERYTHING THE STUDENT NEEDS”
