4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1928

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.90 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from unknown
sources will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
C. CRAWFORD Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. G. BROWN Managing Editor
W. S. PRITCHETT Managing Editor
J. B. MORRIS Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE Athletic Editor
R. A. WILSON Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE Assistant Editor
F. C. WITHERS Assistant Editor
T. T. JONES Assistant Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL Assistant Business Manager
P. J. GARRISON Subscription Manager
B. A. DICKSON Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRISON Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE Solicitor
E. H. McCALL Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. H. BAILEY President
G. B. WILSON Vice-President
J. P. ANDERSON
J. P. McBRYDE
S. R. COKER
W. McDERMID
A. T. EDELMAN
W. B. HENDERSON
ALLAN FREW
F. D. MILLER
P. B. FRY
V. A. MILTON
E. S. HEEFNER
R. T. NANCE
R. F. JARRATT
D. T. STOKES
R. W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
Z. V. LONG

EDITORIAL

Due to the illness of the editor-in-chief, the editorial attempts for this issue have been prepared by junior managing editors.

HONORS COURSES

In keeping with the phenomenal growth of Davidson as related in the feature story of the history of the college
in Sunday’s Charlotte Observer and carrying on that idea of progress and improvement which has marked this institution since its
origin in 1837, is the introduction of what will be known as “Honors Courses” next session as recently announced by
college officials.

The purpose of the proposed courses is that of arousing “interest in a higher grade of intellectual achievement.” Further, “to
develop on the part of the student of initiative the power of independent investigation and critical and constructive scholarship; to
offer to him the opportunity to pursue his chosen study as rapidly as his talents permit, and to deal with
the content of a field of learning rather than with courses.”

The plan as adopted allows students who have made an average of at least 85 in their Freshman year and
90 or better up to and including the mid-semester of their sophomore year to take advantage of these courses. The
professor, under whom the student wishes to study, must approve the taking of the additional work, however. Those who take
Honors Courses during their junior and senior years must carry nine hours of regular class work besides the additional research
and outside study required by the special courses.

Innovation of this system is meeting with great approval by members of the student body here as it is in
other American institutions in which it is a part. This plan, a modification of the Oxford method, has been tried
in a number of colleges and universities in this country and has met with great success in each place. Davidson
officials, likewise, are predicting favorable student reception and are making provisions to offer courses in practically every department of work.

Introduction of Honors Courses here will be an added stimulus to those more progressive students to delve further into their
chosen fields of work and should create a greater interest in the subjects generally, besides producing graduates better fitted and
more widely informed in the subjects in which they have so specialized.

Another advantage will be that the courses will be an impetus to make higher grades while sophomores and freshmen and
thereby will raise the general scholastic standing of the student body as a whole. Such instruction also will result in
better instruction of those men who do not wish to take the special work for, classes will be much smaller
than formerly, if the expected response to the courses is made, and in thorough and more extensive instruction.

The adoption of the new system has attracted favorable notice throughout the state, and educators generally are extending congratulations. The
Davidsonian also commends this addition and offers congratulations to those who were responsible for the adoption.

LOSING AND WINNING

A hitherto unemphasized side of college athletics was recently stressed in an article in the Rotarian, official Rotary magazine, by
President P. W. Horn, of Texas Technological College as he offered defense for coaches and officials of athletic contests in
condemning overenthusiastic alumni and supporters of college teams for demanding teams that win every game during the season.

President Horn quotes Herbert Spencer, who once beaten at a game of billiards, said: “A certain amount of proficiency is
the mark of a gentleman, but too much proficiency is the mark of mis-spent youth.”

“If a team from a comparatively small college,” he continues, “wins every game it plays, then there is just as
much call for an explanation as there would be if it lost every game it played. When the spirit of
a community is such as to demand that the team win every game, no matter at what cost, then athletics
may become a factor for absolute evil in the college life of this community.”

An evil which has been creeping into the ranks of intercollegiate contests for a number of years is this over-zealous
attitude on the part of loyal ones who seem to think that a contest is worthless unless the home team
is victorious and who exert every effort in doing their part to accomplish this end. Ofttimes this is manifest in
promiscuous betting as they believe that they show loyalty to their Alma Mater by so doing. Such a practice strikes
at the root of all that is fine and manly in athletic contests and seeks to remove them from the
field of sport to the hands of gamblers.

Too, undue criticism is often brought to bear against coaches for producing losing teams and caused the dismissal of those
who are not at fault and do not merit such treatment. Officials come under the condemnation of these victory-loving ones
as they render a decision one way or another—either way brings censure from one side or another. Alumni criticize teams
for not meeting more erstwhile opposition and bemoan the fact that victories from very small colleges do not boost the
win column to the proper height. This may be just and proper, according to the existing situation, but as a
rule, those in charge are better able to judge what should be done.

The writer is not trying to discourage alumni interest in athletic contests or anything of the like but only to
suggest that this loyalty find expression in a slightly different manner. Winning games is well worth striving for and should
be the desired end but “whether we win or lose” the game is the thing!

Open Forum

MORE ABOUT POLITICS

To the Editor of The Davidsonian:

“Where there is much smoke, there is usually flame” is a generality, and, like all generalities, subject to exceptions. The
outsider, looking over the past several copies of The Davidsonian, and noticing the effusive discussions there in regard to campus
politics would no doubt form the opinion that Davidson is one of the schools ruled by an underhand ring of
politicians, comparable in its ingenious workings and complete domination to Tammany Hall. No such situation exists. That should be obvious
to anyone who is in the least wise conversant with conditions here.

There is, no doubt, some talking between men as to who is the likely man for any position. That is,
to say the most, only natural. Every student is interested in seeing the man for whom he has a particular
liking named to a post of honor. It is only by discussions that safe and sane conclusions are arrived at.

But aside from this, there ain’t no politics, which is intended to be forceful if non-grammatical. If the ugly monster
should dare to raise his head, campus opinion would nip it in the bloom. The most far-sighted politics for Davidson
is no politics. Every means must be adapted to the end. Those who wish to see a particular man elected
to office, if they are in any wise acute, must realize that their talking can do nothing more than hurt
their candidate’s chances. Sentiment is too strong against anything of the kind.

No one who is unprejudiced will fail to admit that there are reforms which might be introduced into the student
government.

Something About Nothing

Easily the hardest thing about writing such a column as this is starting it. The rest comes without much effort.
But perhaps it is outside the rules of the game to begin with a dissertation on how hard it is.
That looks too much like advance bragging.

Some bird in the Charlotte Observer would limit faculty supervision of publications and lectures to keeping them within the bounds
of good taste. He saysThis “dangerous ideas” stuff is all bunk, since the safe and sane ideas of this generation
were the unsafe and insane ones of a generation ago. Which sounds all right to us. By the way, and
we don’t mean to infringe on the Right Honorable Harold C. Brown, that word “bunk” has a dignified history behind
it. Lexicographers have traced its origin straight back to the House of Representatives, which, for words, is just about equivalent
to a Mayflower genealogy. Here’s the how. A congressman from Buncombe County, this state, followed a bombastic and impassioned political
effusion with the statement that he was “talking only for Buncombe.” Your common everyday “bunk” is thus the illegitimate offspring
of this more dignified ancestor. If there are really sermons in stone, the same applies to words. Take “radical,” for
instance. Despite the ill favor into which it has fallen, a radical is really a man with the stick-to-it-iveness to
go to the bottom of anything and discover what is wrong with it. It comes from the Greek “radix,” meaning
root. An English assistant declares that over three-fourths of the freshmen in his sections have written obits over the deceased
tank. This issue of The Davidsonian carries what we think is a clever parody on the same subject. Someone has
suggested an honorary social fraternity for Davidson. Maybe another step forward—maybe not. Who knows? If you have an inclination towards
verse, don’t let yourself miss Edwin Arlington Robinson’s “Tristram.” Robinson proves himself dignified, poetic John Erskine, putting new life into
a subject which Tennyson had apparently exhausted and made trite.

Diary of a collegiate Pepper: Slept through morning prayers and a class, but to two others, where the yawns persisted
in appearing. Noticed that the carefully dug holes in the campus were filling up. Then somewhat late to the midday
meal, and consequently got up from the table somewhat hungry. Back to interview the dean about absences, who I do
declare must have a particular fondness for me, judging from the number of “at homes” I receive from him. Wasted
valuable time arguing about the future of American Jazz, after listening to some of the latest records. Then to ride,
carefully within the limits of the town, with an alumnus, and to work on this column. A lady soliciting magazine
subscriptions in an effort to gain a scholarship attracted quite a lot of attention around the village Monday afternoon. She
might have been slighted some by Nature when beauty was apportioned, but what she lacked she certainly made up in
snappy talk. Several of the boys were roped in before they knew what was high. I don’t know whether this
will fill a column or not. Guess it doesn’t matter much, anyway, for there will be very few beside the
author who will read this far.

From the perspective of a week, this weekend looks like it’s going to be a big one. A formal invitation
affair Friday night in Charlotte and an informal script one in Mooresville the following night, combined with a tea Saturday
afternoon and the Converse Glee Club that night should just about constitute a full program.

A man on the campus, who has had experience with that august body, proposes that the personnel, numbering at present
fifteen men, be divided thus: one judge, one defense attorney, and one prosecuting attorney, all without votes, the remaining twelve
men to form a jury which would sit on any case which comes before it. There are numerous advantages which
might be urged for this system, among them the fact that it is more closely in accord with present judicial
procedure, that it would no doubt conduce to a more equitable serving of the ends of justice, and that it
would provide any so-called culprit with a lawyer who, under no conditions, could be accused of prejudice one way or
the other. But to come back to the candidates, it is clear that the best men are not always elected
to the respective offices. Popularity and the fallibility of humanity would preclude that. Men who have been so fortunate as
to put themselves before the public in some way, whether it be in athletics or what-not, must be conceded a
tremendous advantage over others. Real leadership is not always served. But he must be indeed warped who can maintain that
Davidson is afflicted to any marked degree with that scourge of almost every government, underhand politics.

J. P. M.

The Exploding Valve
Random Remarks on Anything From Steam Shovels to Steam Pianos

Now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of their party. I am not attempting
to be trite, as no doubt I often am, but I sincerely believe that I am repeating a true, if
worn, statement. Especially now when once again the local campus is involved in its yearly orgy of political selection, do
we hear hurried but fruitless summons for all members to be sure to attend the election and vote for the
favorite son. This done, words of hard luck and better next time are in order and the outstanding man is
no more. He has departed toward the oblivion of his Senior year carrying with him the satisfaction of realizing he
once was considered. Perhaps each reader of this attempt to fill space has already voted for a “favorite son” and,
if he is fortunate, the readers may even have another opportunity to waste their vote. But, I contend, nothing but
good feeling arises from this method. It is to be expected that we mortals prefer a close friend before the
more capable classmates. The time even comes when a combination of these two ingredients constitutes a likable candidate and consequently
there are no misgivings on our part. When this remarkable collection of attributes occurs, the hometown papers go wild with
joy, the high school weekly appears with a picture of its departed and now famous alumnus, and the relatives of
the outstanding man boisterously acknowledge their relationship. Such is the life of a leader. This sickening attitude, which promises to
dull, stupefy and coat with a permanent varnish of conceit the man who has come across, should be altered. How,
and why, is more than I know. What can be done to prevent the furtherance of the prevailing system is
beyond my comprehension, but the situation is, I believe, correctly portrayed. But, as the demi-gods would say, so much for
that.

Should the underclassmen desire a formula—and without waiting for a reply to this question, I shall proceed—for developing a politician,
I offer the following. First, upon the ovum of a high school reputation or an athletic career, inject the sperm
of the hale-fellow-well-met attitude, the ability to talk under any and all circumstances, an increasing amount of egotism sedately hid,
and a few concrete examples of something accomplished. Second, allow this mixture to rest for one, two or three years
(it spoils after the third year) and finally shake well and announce the birth of this prodigy at some conspicuous
function. Despite the unbiological and rather degrading method, I believe that the result will be pleasing. I, of course, am
thinking of no one in particular nor am I casting any hints of these qualities on our present or future
leaders. These are simply ideas I have concerning politicians and not leaders.

Yesterday was the day of days for some. By decree, bids from the honorary fraternities were dispatched then. Some got
what they expected, a few were surprised and maybe one or two were disappointed. This is to be expected from
the credulous and gullible underclassmen. It is even looked for from the uninitiated upperclassmen. A word to the uninitiated is
never heeded. Yes, despite the danger of generalities, I think this is true, for who knows what to expect? The
Davidson campus is so terribly over-organized in the matter of honor societies the work and good which might be accomplished
under a different system, is hindered, choked and well-nigh annihilated by our method of providing an honor group for each
forty students. By actual count, there exist fourteen honor societies for six hundred students; the distinction of belonging to a
selected organization is lost by the fact that many overlap and offer nothing more than another opportunity to have one’s
picture in the annual. Of course, that, in itself, is an inducement for one has distinctive features. However, some are
worthwhile and besides offering opportunities for a nice social gathering, accomplish very excellent things in their line. I would not
discourage any jubilant fellow from joining any of these fourteen, but I would caution against becoming involved with too many
purely parasitic groups. And so with the kindly interest that I have toward both systems discussed here, I beg and
implore all parties involved in either of the two processes to remember and not, sometime in the future, wail, after
the manner of several I know:

Roses are red,
Violets are blue,
I picked a lemon,
When I got you.

C. W.

The Athletic Department of Gettysburg College has instituted the “game idea” for all students, striving toward the end of every
student taking his exercise in games rather than by himself in the gym.
