THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1928

Keeping Up With the “Y”

With the coming of Dr. Green this Sunday, the Spring campaign of the Y will be formally under way. As in the past, this series of meetings is one of the most important parts of the work of the Y. M. C. A. and as such, should be given the best support and co-operation possible. Dr. Green is one of the South’s ablest pastors and leaders, and will bring messages that will vitally appeal to every man on the Hill. He will be here for three days, as the services last through Wednesday night. Give the Y your help, and go to hear this man—you won't regret it for one moment. The first service will be at Y Sunday night, so plan to be there, and start things off in the right way.

Shearer at 6:15

The Vocational Guidance Institute this week takes up Law as a life work. Mr. S. Clay Williams, chief counsel for the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., will be the main speaker to make a plea for Law as a chosen work. Other noted lawyers will be here for talks and interviews so that every phase of the work will be covered. Don’t miss this opportunity, for these will be the best men in their profession in the South and most able representatives of their calling.

Deputations sent out over the weekend report most successful trips. Harllee Branch, Allan Frew, Raymond Lake, Mack King, and John Q. Dickinson went to Banner Elk, while Dick Grey, Lewis McColgan, Bob Grady, and Riggs McConnell went to Salisbury. These men represented the Y in a most able way, and through their work the Y moves forward as it should, to the best fulfillment of its aims.

The Y Cabinet “World Evangelism” Committee is planning a Mission Institute, similar to the one of last year, but on a much larger scale. This is also a Life Work meeting, at which the question of missions, both foreign and home, will be handled. And to best do this, it is planned.

TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE!

We have at all times a complete stock of New Orthophonic Victrolas, Brunswick Panatropes, Victor and Brunswick Records. A Complete Line of RCA Radios from $69.50 to $895. Also Records Every Friday.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM, BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS, AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

The Commercial National Bank
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

Founded 1874

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY

Judge Clears Men With His Conviction

The nineteen Yale students arrestedby New Haven police for distributing pamphlets describing the conditions in the city’s neckwear industries, were cleared when Judge Walter M. Pickett of the Criminal Common Pleas Court sustained a test. The case into the courts taken uncivil liberties. A home worker to be in charge is the present intention of the Cabinet. Sociology, undergraduate effervescence, more will be announced later. Only one case was tried as their appeal from the City Court Justice’s Judge Pickett did not hand down his decision without taking the opportunity to indicate that he looked with disfavor on the undergraduate action that brought it. He denied that civil liberties were involved, and on the contrary accused the students of having taken uncivil liberties. In concluding, he said: “Be this extra-mural activity attributable to the throes of experimental sociology, undergraduate effervescence, or unseasoned solicitude, under the ordinance as I interpret it, the defendant is guilty of no offense punishable by the court.”—The New Student.

Crip Courses Can Have Good Results

Wholesale revision of the Columbia University curriculum within the next two years, and the probable introduction of “snap courses,” was discussed by Dean Herbert E. Hawkes in an alumni day address. Dean Hawkes said that a committee is considering the introduction of “snap” courses. These he favors. He told the alumni that “if the system is put through as I favor it, some of the best lecturers will give courses two or three times a week for which there will be no examination and for which half credit will be given. I think that this will serve to acquaint the students with the subject matter without having them bother to an unnecessary degree about preparing for examinations. Snap courses have often worked out very well. A course at Harvard which was reputed to be very easy turned out many very good geologists. The faculty, however, did not approve of the existence of any course as easy as this one, with the result that there have been no good geologists produced since the abolition of the course.”—The New Student.

Miss Gusher—“I think your new novel has a beautiful ending, Mr. Scribbler.”
Scribbler—“How do you like the opening chapters?”
Miss Gusher—“Oh, I haven't come to those yet.”—Boston Transcript.

ANY way you figure it, P. A. is better tobacco. Take fragrance, for instance. Your well-known olfactory organ will tell you. And taste—who can describe that? And mildness—you couldn’t ask for anything milder. Yes, Sir, P. A. is cool and comfortable and mellow and mild. Long-burning, with a good clean ash. You never tire of P.A. It’s always the same old friendly smoke. Get yourself a tidy red tin and check everything I’m telling you!

PRINCE ALBERT—no other tobacco is like it!