Thursday, September 20, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

CAT TRAX AS THEY FOLLOW THE RED AND BLACK
By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Woke on Saturday—the big day—the opening game of another season for the Wildcat eleven. No prophetic words from the wigwams
of Younger and Tilson. No glaring newspaper headlines about another wonder team. No rash statements as to the score of
the initial clash. Just this, red-shirted sons of Davidson with fighting hearts keyed up to the occasion, and back of
them, more than six hundred spirited men, aflame with the ardor that wins. Draw your own conclusions.

Little or nothing is known here as to the strength, or lack of strength, over at Guilford College, the Cats’
opponent on this weekend. Under a new coach, Norman Shepherd, past star at Davidson and Carolina, the Quakers are expected
to show new life. Two years ago Monk's team triumphed by a good score over the Guilfordians, but not without
a hard fight. So look for a scrap when Younger sends his hopefuls on the field. Doctor Charlie will be
very much on hand with all his charms and voodoos to harass the visitors. What would a game be without
the Doctor? No better supporter of Davidson ever buried a rabbit foot beneath the goal posts. Some students would do
well to assimilate the pep and spirit the one and only Charlie so consistently shows.

Looks like the sophomore class will be largely represented in Saturday's clash. McCall, Goodykoontz, Mason, David, and Brock are sure
to see action. All of which is encouraging for the team of next year. Nothing like starting them early. David
and Brock are a couple of “hard rocks” on the flanks, and when that pair start after opposing safety men,
there is bound to be something doing.

This old quality called “pep” does more to win a football game than all the talking in the world. Just
get in there from the start and yell like every play depends on you. Put yourself in the player’s shoes
and imagine how it would sound to you to hear the strains of “Old Davidson” ringing in your ears as
you ran the plays. Pep is a mighty big word. Make the most of it.

Off to an early start, the freshmen under Buck Miles, erstwhile star at Virginia Poly, are driving along steadily in
preparation for their first game with Oak Ridge. Material looks good. Spirit is good. Coach is good. Watch their smoke.
This is one year that the varsity will scrimmage the rats with some trepidation, and it is a safe bet
that the cry so familiar—“Fresh Meat”—will not be uttered so frequently.

Following in the steps of other leading institutions, Davidson has installed a department of physical education. A man well known
and fully capable of handling this work has been secured, Captain Norton G. Pritchett. In his chapel talk, the Captain
sounded a call to arms, so to speak, and this column wishes to heartily endorse his every move, and to
call upon the men of Davidson to lend their co-operation.

Fall track practice is under way for the first time in many years. Pritchett is working his charges every afternoon.
An early start is sure to bring results next spring. Davidson track should present one of the best teams of
the year, since few men are missing from last year’s squad, and the sophomore material is encouraging.

House parties and football games go well together. Therefore this weekend bids fair to be very enjoyable. And may Monk’s
own Wildcats have the best time of it all. A winning start is worth a million.

Movie lovers and history “studs” will be disappointed to learn that the German movie, Niebelungen, has been suppressed because of
the extreme cruelty which it depicts. It is a story of the conquests of Attila the Hun. It rose from
an actual occurrence. Ernst Czske, a Hungarian shepherd, and his wife Viljna had a vision of Attila pointing toward the
Hungarian table-lands, and saying, “Go search for my treasure.” Consequently, thousands of Hungarian country folk have been scouring the plains
for vast wealth. The vision has been repeated every night, and it must be admitted, with different directions. But what
does it matter? Will not one of them be correct? All of which stresses the need for universal education.

MONKMEN ENGAGE GUILFORD QUAKERS IN FIRST FRACAS
Football Season Ushered in With Saturday’s Game—Gala Occasion

REAL FIGHT FORESEEN
Team in Good Shape for Opening Clash—Many New Faces to be Seen in Lineup

On Saturday Richardson Field will experience the official opening of the Davidson Wildcats’ 1928 football season when the “Monkmen” put
their prowess against Norman Sheppard's scrapping little team from Guilford College. The records show that in previous contests Guilford has
never taken a football game from the Wildcats. The last game in which the two schools engaged, back in ‘26,
ended disastrously indeed for the visitors as the “Cats” piled up touchdown after touchdown to rout the visitors to the
smart tune of 26 to 0. Since that fatal day, Guilford has been somewhat wary about locking horns with Davidson
teams. But time heals the wounds of former defeats, and these two meet once more.

This year Davidson is confronted with a problem in gridiron warfare the like of which she has never before encountered
since she has been putting out football teams. Only three of last year’s letter men have returned—Baker, Riggs McConnell, and
Tut McConnell. However, things are not so gloomy as they would appear to be at first glance. Some of the
men from last year’s Freshman team are showing up well and with the addition of some strong contenders for the
1927 team from the upper classes, coaches Younger and Tilson are prepared to place a well-balanced eleven on the field.

Two weeks of stiff practice have not been in vain, and Saturday will see the Cats take the field in
perfect shape except for a few minor injuries. Proctor, an end, suffered an injured leg a week ago, but his
limb is rapidly improving, and he will likely see service. Thursday and Friday will be light days for the team,
most of the time being taken up with signal practice and final advice from the coaches.

Davidson and Guilford, with this game, pry off the lid of the North Carolina football season. A large crowd is
expected to fill the stands, and ample preparation is being made to take care of these fans. Student interest is
at a high pitch. Everything points to a gala day.

The probable lineup of the Wildcats is as follows: Left end, Brock; right end, David; left tackle, Baker; right tackle,
McConnell; left guard, Parker; right guard, Smith; center, Mason or McConnell; quarterback, McMillan; left half, Kell; right half, Flinn; fullback,
Black.

Al (presiding at a convention): “Now I've got a surprise for you. Zest is going to speak to us.”
Voice: “That's no surprise. I read it in the paper this morning.”
Al: “My mistake. I didn’t think you could read.”

Much credit must go to Mr. McEvoy for being the first to recognize a new phase of American humor, and
one which must certainly play an important part.

Admirers of the magician and conjurer cannot refrain from wondering at the Indian fakir. With no stage paraphernalia, screens or
settings, he does truly remarkable things. ReliableOnlookers have testified to seeing small boys placed in baskets, and knives dripping with
blood after being thrust through all portions of the basket in question. One fakir climbed a string and came back
with the boy’s head in his hand. In each case, the boys reappeared sound and whole. Two English explorers took
a moving picture of one of these juggling tricks. When it was developed, there was NO PICTURE. Please explain.

How many people know that Gray’s “Elegy” took seven years of hard, persistent labor? Or that General Lyle wrote that
delightful composition, “Antony and Cleopatra,” the night before he died. The opening line of it is, “I am dying, Egypt,
dying.” Perhaps more strange was the fact that Samuel Woodworth produced “Old Oaken Bucket” after a night of hard drinking
in a barroom. Yet how many of this column’s readers have attempted to write an acceptable theme in fifteen minutes?

NEW MENTORS ON NEW SCHEDULE
CAMPUS HAS TEN GAMES
Pritchett and Miles Assume Duties—Both Men of Wide Experience

The Davidson schedule this year includes ten encounters. In 1927, Guilford College was added to the card, and Clemson was
substituted for the University of Florida, which are the only two changes made. Four games will be played at Davidson,
three others in North Carolina, while only three out-of-state engagements will be played. The complete schedule is as follows:

Sept. 22—Guilford at Davidson.
Sept. 29—Clemson at Clemson, S.C.
Oct. 6—Elon at Davidson.
Oct. 13—Wofford at Davidson.
Oct. 20—The Citadel at Charleston, S.C.
Oct. 27—Wake Forest in Charlotte.
Nov. 3—V.M.I. at Lexington, Va.
Nov. 10—N.C. State at Greensboro.
Nov. 17—Furman at Davidson (Homecoming).
Nov. 29—Duke at Durham (Thanksgiving).

NO LEADER FOR CAT TEAM
McColgan Not Back to Assume Captaincy of Football Eleven

The failure of W.L. McColgan to return to school this year leaves the Wildcat Eleven without a captain for the
first time in recent history. McColgan, a guard, was elected to the leadership of this year’s team and was expected
to be a tower of strength in a somewhat weak line. It now seems entirely probable that no permanent captain
will be chosen, but that a leader will be picked for each game, thus placing responsibility on no one man.

Davidson College has added two new men to her coaching staff since last year. V.E. “Buck” Miles, a graduate of
V.P.I., will take charge of the freshmen during the football season. In addition to his duties as coach of the
Davidson “yearlings,” he will have charge of the varsity wrestlers, and then in the spring take charge of the spring
football training. Captain Pritchett, who has come to us to have charge of the department of Physical Culture, will, in
collaboration with Tilson, also coach varsity track. “Buck” Miles completed his course in electrical engineering this past year. He was
one of the most prominent athletes that V.P.I. has ever produced. Elected captain of the football team, he was further
honored by being named as tackle on the All-South Atlantic team. Freshman Miles was captain of the wrestling team and
led his team to victory in the Southern Conference Tournament.

Captain Pritchett has been connected with the Woodbury Forest School, in Orange, Va., for some time past. At this place,
Captain Pritchett, besides being a professor of English, was director of Physical Education. As track coach, Pritchett has had considerable
success, and he is considered by many to be one of the finest track coaches in the South. Several of
his men have taken part in the Olympic games. Captain Pritchett also was boxing coach and an assistant on the
football field while at Woodbury Forest.

Four letter men are back, and should a captain be elected, he will come from these men: Riggs McConnell, Tut
McConnell, Baker, and Hewlette.

STOP! From the Show at WILDCAT CAFE DAVIDSON, N.C.
HOME COOKED FOOD OPEN TILL 11 P.M.

BARNETT and COMPANY
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Shoes, Hosiery, and Slickers
DAVIDSON, N.C.

David Theatre
Monday, September 24th
Greta Nissen in “Fazil”
See this one sure!

Tuesday, September 25th
Marjorie Beebe in “None But the Brave”

Wednesday, September 26th
William Haines in “Excess Baggage”

Thursday, September 27th
Sue Carroll in “Win That Girl”

Friday, September 28th
Buster Keaton in “The Cameraman”

Saturday, September 29th
Victor McLaglen in “The River Pirate”

COMING PICTURES IN OCT.
Two Lovers
King of Kings
While the City Sleeps
Wedding March

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Make Our Store Your Store
It is our desire to serve you at all times with the best. We carry a complete stock of school
supplies and other sundries. We serve at our fountain only the best. We are always glad to favor you in
any way we can.

CHARLIE CHAPLIN in the blindfold cigarette test
Famous star selects OLD GOLD

“One cigarette of the four I smoked in the blindfold test was like shooting a scene successfully after a whole
series of failures. It just ‘clicked’ and I named it as my choice. It was OLD GOLD. Which clears up
a mystery, for the supply of OLD GOLDS in my Beverly Hills home is constantly being depleted. It seems that
Strongheart and Rin-tin-tin are the only motion picture stars who don’t smoke them.”

CHARLIE CHAPLIN, movie favorite the world over, in one of his best-loved pictures—"The Circus.”

MR. CHAPLIN was asked to smoke each of the four leading brands, clearing his taste with coffee between smokes. Only
one question was asked: “Which one do you like the best?”

How does OLD GOLD do it? What’s the secret of OLD GOLD’S winning charm? The answer is very simple. Three
types of leaves grow on the tobacco plant: coarse, heavy top-leaves, irritating to the throat; withered ground-leaves, without taste or
aroma; and the heart-leaves, rich in cool and fragrant smoking qualities. These golden-ripe heart-leaves give OLD GOLDS their honey-like smoothness.
That’s why so many people choose them. And that’s why you too can pick them... even in the dark.

“NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD”
Made from the heart-leaves of the tobacco plant
SMOOTHER AND BETTER
