The DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 1, 1928 No. 26

JAKE WADE DESCRIBES JOURNALISM AS WORK DEMANDING SINCERITY

Journalist Must Have Desire and Knack if he is to be Successful

“I can not advise you to go into journalism. If you have the urge, that indescribable leaning, you will drift into it, regardless of how I paint the situation. If you haven't got it, you won’t stay in the work long even if you take a fling at it,” said Jake Wade, city editor of the “Greensboro Record,” speaking to those members of the student body who are aspirants to journalism, in Shearer Hall Monday night. Mr. Wade, former sports writer for the “Charlotte Observer,” was the first speaker for the Vocational Guidance Institute’s week given to journalism as a life work.

In his talk, Mr. Wade traced the evolution of the newspaper publishing business from the days of “personal” journalism, when men such as Horace Greely were conspicuous, through the commercial age, when advertising forces controlled the press, up to the present specialized age. Newspapers today have entirely divided their work into departments, and the old-fashioned straight newspaper reporter scarcely exists. The paper has become filled with features of different kinds. It has the comic strip, the want column, the elaborate sports section, the political news, etc. The paper has become standardized. Mr. Wade asserted that the daily has come to be read as a means of entertainment as much as a means of instruction. As a result of this taste of the reader, the feature writer has his article located in the same place each day, so that his regular reader can turn to it at once. Another effect the taste of the public has had on the paper, is personalization of the reporter. Formerly the reporter was never known, but today the reporter is allowed to color his stories, and as a result the public demands to know who that reporter is. The liberty of the reporter in his stories has increased step by step. One by one the different news services began to allow signed articles, until now even the Associated Press, the most conservative of news service associations, has allowed its reporters to liven up their stories and stick their names to them.

(Continued on page 8)

Rifle Team Makes Admirable Showing

In the match with the V. M. I. rifle team last week, the Davidson team made a splendid showing, but was defeated by a narrow score of seven points in favor of V. M. I. During the first and greatest part of the match both teams held together in fairly close order, but during the firing at the last position, the V. M. I. men showed themselves superior to the Davidson team. Taylor was high score man for Davidson with a total of 354 points. The individual scores and the team score ranked high and showed the ability and efforts of the six men who made the trip. Four positions were fired in the match: prone, sitting, kneeling, and standing, the latter proving not only the most difficult, but was also the position which decided the match. Capt. J. W. Elkins and Lieut. R. C. Beckett made the trip with the team, driving them up through the country. They were entertained at V. M. I., and were spectators at the cadet parade, as well as guests for several other functions of the school. The team reported a good trip, although the score was not quite large enough on the Davidson side to enable them to bring back a victory.

Noted Swiss Writer at Shearer Tonight

Through the efforts of the French department, the famous Swiss author and lecturer, Charles Gos, has been secured to lecture in Shearer Hall tonight at 7:45 o'clock. His subject will be “Swiss Alps and Alpinism,” which will include something of the history, science and beauty of this superbly beautiful region. His lecture will also include an account of the conquest of the Matterhorn, which should provide a thrill or two for the audience. In addition, M. Gos is bringing 50 colored slides, many of them hitherto unpublished, which have been lent to him by special authorization of King Albert I of Belgium, a great Alpine climber himself. The lecturer will speak in both French and English, but, with the aid of the slides, should be intelligible to everyone. Charles Gos is the son of Albert Gos, the celebrated Swiss landscape painter, and a native of Geneva, Switzerland. He has been an outstanding journalist for a number of years, contributing to French and Swiss papers and magazines as a critic and news writer. An Alpinist by birth, he has scaled most of the Alpine peaks without a guide, and has applied to literature the “feeling for mountains” that his father expresses in his pictures. Among his best-known books are (Continued on page 8)

Cat Quintet Wins Two of Three Final Game

Captain Wilson Leads Scoring as Cats Close Season—Deacons and Quakers Defeated

Winding up the last week of the ’27-'28 basketball season, the Wildcat quintet romped over Guilford and Wake Forest to the tune of 30-27, and 51-27, respectively, but lost a tough battle to Duke with a score of 51-33. All of the contests were played away from Davidson, except the one with Wake Forest, last Tuesday night, Duke being met at Durham on Wednesday, and Guilford on their own floor Thursday. Wilson led the scoring for Davidson, running up a total of 37 points for the three games, while Pritchett was second this week. The highest individual score made by an opponent in any of these three games was 12, annexed by Dowtin, of Wake Forest. Box scores:

Davidson (51) Position W. Forest (27)
Kugler (12) James (2) Forward
Pritchett (19) Scarboro (2) Forward
Wilson (14) Dowtin (17) Center
Harrison (2) Carter (3) Guard
Hewlett Weir, H. (2) Guard
Substitutes: McAulay (4) Allen
Crawford Faust
Referee, Rawson; scorer, Wadsworth; timer, Mattox; score at end of half: D. C., 22; Wake Forest, 11.

Davidson (33) Position Duke (51)
(Continued on page 8)

Final Match of Season But Lose To Champions

Duke Matmen Claim State and Southern Championship

HILL WINS BY FALL

Decided Win Over State, 17-8, But Duke Proves too Strong for Home Team, Winning 20-3

In the last two meets of the season, the Davidson matmen lost to the Duke squad, 20-3, and won the match with N. C. State, 17-8. The Duke encounter was in Durham last Saturday night and the match with the State grapplers was held in Raleigh Monday night, the Davidson squad returning to Davidson Tuesday with a victory listed for the final encounter to the '27-’28 season. As a result of her victory over Davidson, Duke now lays claim to a state, a southern, and possibly a national championship.

In the meet with Duke, Captain “Jett” Garrison was the lone scorer for the Wildcats, when he got a time decision over Jennings of 2 minutes and 20 seconds. This struggle constituted the outstanding individual match of the night. The fight was so evenly balanced that for seven minutes neither of the men was off his feet, and at the end of the allotted time the advantage was even. In the extra period Garrison got the best of his man and won on time. The only fall of the match was secured by Captain Culp of the Duke team in (Continued on page 8)

The Davidson College Glee Club left the campus Thursday morning to invade the South. The itinerary of the tour includes points in three states: Anderson, S. C.; Atlanta, Ga.; Gaffney, S. C., and Gastonia, N. C. by authorities that the voices were in excellent condition. The prospects for the trip are that it will be one of the best in the history of the club, due to the efforts of ProfessorCullum, director; John Foster, president, and Ed. Douglas, business manager. The club is traveling in two large buses. Leaving Davidson, the club will appear tonight at the Anderson College for Women, where it is being sponsored by the Senior class of that school. From Anderson, the club will go directly to Atlanta, the southernmost point of the tour, where it will appear on Friday night at the Woman's Club, sponsored by the Sophomore class. Henry Powell, who is the president of the Woman's Auxiliary of Atlanta, reports that the sale of tickets so far is exceeding all expectations. During the stay in the Southern metropolis, the ladies of the Auxiliary of Atlanta will entertain the club.

On Sunday morning, quartets selected from the club will sing in different churches, and in the evening, the entire club will participate in a vesper service at the Central Presbyterian Church, which will be broadcast by radio. Anthems and sacred selections will be rendered. The club will appear on Monday night at Limestone College, in Gaffney, S.C., under the auspices of the Senior class of that school. On Tuesday, a concert will be given in the High School Auditorium at Gastonia, N.C. (Continued on page 8)

Forty Davidson Songsters Off to Atlanta With Two Concerts at Intermediate Points

Since the Christmas holidays, the club has been practicing every week, and it was stated that the Colleges of State Wildcat Grapplers Win.

JESUS IS SOLUTION TO PROBLEMS OF COLLEGE SAYS REV.

Honors Courses to be Innovated Here

At chapel exercises on Saturday, February 25th, Dr. W. J. Martin sounded the keynote for what promises to be one of the most significant steps Davidson College has taken in recent years. He announced that next fall the college would institute what a host of American colleges have termed “Honors Courses.” These courses will be open to Juniors and Seniors who have met the grade requirements for their first two years and will allow a man to concentrate his efforts upon the work of his choice.

In recent years, a wave of liberal education has made itself felt in schools throughout the world. The continual inflow of college men has so overcrowded most of the schools that education has, to a great degree, missed its purpose. Men capable of much better work, and men who desire to devote their talents to the thing for which they are best suited, find themselves held back in classes with men who do only mediocre work. Honors courses are designed primarily to reach men who should be doing work of a more special nature, men who seem to be capable of using their own time and talents to good advantage. The purpose of the proposed Honors courses is stated in the resolutions adopted by the faculty, as follows: (Continued on page 8)

Man Frew Selected to Speak in State Contest

Preliminary Contests Sponsored by State Forensic Association

Davidson's representative in the State Oratoricals for this year will be Alan Frew, of the Sophomore class. This was decided when Frew was chosen as the winner in the preliminary contest, held here last Friday night in Shearer Hall. Henry Powell was chosen as the alternate. There were but three entrants in the preliminary contest. They were: Bill Beavers, president of the Forensic Council, and Alan Frew, the winner. The judges of the contest were: Dr. Vowles, Professor Fleagle, and Professor Erwin.

The North Carolina Intercollegiate Forensic Association, of which Henry Powell is the president, is sponsoring the State Oratoricals which are to be held on March 30th at Davidson. The State Forensic Association is now having preliminary contests held in each of the colleges of the state. The winner of the state contest will be allowed to represent North Carolina in the Regional Contest, and the winner of the Regional Contest will go to Los Angeles to enter the National Contest. The prize of this latter contest is $1,500. The state of California is sponsoring the National Contest, with a view toward arousing interest in and knowledge of the United States Constitution. The exact location where the Regional Oratorical Contest is to be held has yet to be decided.

E. A. WOODS

Salisbury Pastor is Speaker at “Y” Vesper on “The Passing and the Permanent”

In an impressive address on “The Passing and the Permanent,” Rev. Edgar Woods, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, made an earnest appeal at vespers Sunday evening for young college men to consider what is abiding in the bewildering changes of the modern world. “The world passeth away and the desire for it; he that doeth the will of God abideth forever,” found in I John 2:17, formed the central theme of the speaker's message. Amid the kaleidoscopic shiftings of the centuries, certain principles have remained. Euclid’s geometry has survived revolutions in government and fusion of races and is still recognized as authoritative today. Such permanence is even more prevalent when the moral and spiritual field is considered. Although we no longer use Ruth's sickle for harvesting, we still feel that her unselfish love and loyalty are necessary for the woman of today. Lindbergh's monoplane will be out of date in the near future, but the sterling qualities of personal courage and devotion to duty will remain. Under the many changes occasioned by modern science, the human heart remains much the same, and is disturbed by the old problems of sin, suffering, and doubt. How can a young college man reconcile the God of the church with the scientific teaching which he receives? Yet the very fact that a man seeks to make this reconciliation, that he is constantly striving to seek God, reveals a fundamental instinct in his nature which needs satisfying; this fact is more important than the reconciliation with science.

The love of God is abiding and is expressed in an Abiding Book. Critics of the Bible should remember that it is inspired by an infinite God, that it appeals to an unchanging part of man’s nature, and that it introduces the Abiding Person of God. Jesus Christ is as modern as any of our modern problems and is the best possible solution to these. He is still the One who can change a sinful life into a fuller, nobler character. “He is the same yesterday, today, and forever.” He that would abide forever must lay hold of certain abiding things. Religious faith, (Continued on page 5)

Chair of Physical Education in Sight

In the near future, Davidson may have a director of physical education. The initial step towards this innovation was made at the recent meeting of the board of trustees, when that body gave its permission to set up a chair of physical education in Davidson. The director will be a man of suitable preparation to take care of all intramural sports, mass athletics, and gymnastics on the hill. His especial job will be to look out for those men who are not actively identified with some form of sport, and to see that such men receive systematic athletic training. Boxing, gymnasium classes, wrestling, and other indoor sports will probably take on new life. The outstanding consideration, of course, is that all men, unless physically disabled, shall receive attention which will prove beneficial to them. It is thought that this idea will take on a definite form at an early date, and that Davidson will join the ranks of those schools boasting a complete department of physical education. The completion of the plan will mean a great deal to Davidson, and it seems now that sentiment is fast turning in favor of the proposed department.