Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN October 4, 1928

Rhodes Scholarship Offers Opportunity For Classical Study
By Mason Hammond
Former Rhodes Scholar at Balliol College, Oxford; B.A. Harvard, Summa Cum Laude; B.A., Oxford, Highest Honors; Tutor in Classics at Harvard University

A course of study, or “School,” at Oxford falls into two parts, each terminated by a set of examinations. Usually, though not necessarily, both parts are taken in the same subject. Of the two parts of the School of Literae Humaniores, or what in America would be comprised under “Classics,” the first, called “Honour Moderations,” requires five terms (there are three terms of eight weeks each in a year) and the second, familiarly known as “Greats,” seven. While Greats demands a knowledge of Greek and Latin which is thoroughly tested in the examinations by translations, both sight and prepared, and by prose composition (verse is optional), the school deals primarily with ancient history and philosophy. It may, therefore, be omitted in this discussion. A mere reference also is all that can be devoted to the opportunities for research in classical subjects, whether for the easier degree of Bachelor of Letters or for the more difficult Doctor of Philosophy.

It is preeminently in “Honour Mods” that one can study the aesthetic, grammatical, and archaeological aspects of the classical world. For such work the English undergraduate is generally far better equipped than would be his American contemporary. The former has begun the classics earlier and pursued them more thoroughly than is possible in most American schools. By the time that the English public school (what we would call a private school) boy reaches the university, he has done not only Homer and Xenophon, Caesar, Virgil, and Cicero, but something likewise of the Greek dramatists and lyric poets, of Horace, Livy, and the comedians; he has been drilled too in prose and verse composition. Furthermore, Greats today, since the development of more modern schools at Oxford, attracts mainly the abler scholars. In consequence of these several factors, the five terms of “Mods” covers in a more concentrated fashion as much ground as a four-year classical course in an American university. The detailed familiarity with the “set” books, which all Oxford schools require, here emphasizes their textual and grammatical problems as well as their meaning or importance. One must, moreover, be versed in the environment of ancient literature—Homeric armor, or Roman society in the age of Cicero—and, if one chooses, more strictly archaeological matters.

There is one saving counterpoise to the extent of subject which an Oxford school treats, namely the latitude of choice allowed among the questions set in the examinations. Many Americans, although they have done classics in their home university, are so terrified by these formidable aspects of “Mods” that they take advantage of their degrees to get senior standing. This enables them to proceed directly to the final school, “Greats,” over which they can spend two or three years. In reality, however, while our classical courses may not teach us to write sapphics or scan Pindar, it certainly gives one an advantage over the English undergraduate in so far as it provides a more mature appreciation and a wider acquaintance with the subject than could be obtained in school. An American who has had college Latin and Greek ought, in fact, to find little difficulty in doing well, if not brilliantly, in “Mods” after two terms, especially with hard work and some preliminary reading of the texts during the preceding summer, such as is in any case expected at Oxford. This would leave the normal seven terms out of a three-year course for Greats.

There is probably no better approach to classical literature than “Mods.” It by no means slights the dull but inevitable drudgery in grammar and textual criticism. But it does not, as sometimes happens in America, stop at the mere mechanics of the subject. Like all Oxford schools, it seeks to teach not facts but thought; to develop not the memory but the critical and appreciative faculty. At Oxford there are sound scholars, men whose names are familiar to every student of the classics; and at Oxford there are good critics—men who bring to the appreciation of ancient literatures not only aesthetic taste but ripe judgment. Nevertheless, for scholarship alone one can go to Germany, the land of the doctorate, and for pure criticism, to France, the home of the connoisseur. Oxford, however, combines with both of these another rarer element. There, more than in any other place, generations of men have devotedly fostered the classics, not as pedants or as dilettantes, but out of love of them for their own sakes.

Until recently in England, a gentleman of culture was marked more by his familiarity with classical than with contemporary letters. This may have been a narrow point of view; Oxford may have been unduly hostile to innovations. But assuredly such a leisurely and cultured attitude towards the classics has endowed its scholars with a tradition and an atmosphere like the mellow bouquet of a fine old port wine.

GOLF TEAM PICKED FOR FIRST MATCH
Four Men Chosen in Tournament for Opening Match With Concord Wednesday

Four men, A. Mills, J. K. Pepper, J. B. Hutaff, W. L. Hart, were chosen as members of Davidson's temporary golf team by reason of their victories in the recent golf tournament. This tournament was open to all Davidson students, and its purpose was to select the men who met the Concord Country Club yesterday. This method of choosing the teams for the various matches is to be continued throughout the year. A tournament will be held before each meet and the four winners will constitute the team for that match.

At a meeting of the Golf Club some time ago A. L. Mills was elected manager of the team and J. K. Pepper its secretary and treasurer. Mills is also captain of the team, having been elected last year. The team left for Concord yesterday morning in order to play a practice round on the Concord course and thereby to familiarize themselves with the course. It is thought that a return match on the Davidson course will be arranged for next week. A match with the Gastonia Country Club will probably be scheduled for an early date. It is not yet known whether or not Davidson will enter the North Carolina inter-collegiate matches to be held during the Christmas holidays on the Sedgefield Country Club course at Greensboro. Five hundred dollars has been donated by the college for improvements on the course. It is hoped by the Golf Club that more interest will be taken in golf than ever before.

The results of the match play to select the members of the team are as follows: A. L. Mills defeated R. L. Sutliff 8 up and 6 to play. W. H. Best defaulted to J. K. Pepper. W. L. Hart defeated W. H. Lillard 1 up. J. B. Hutaff defeated J. A. Cannon 9 up and 7 to play.

ENROLLMENT SHOWS TWENTY STATES ARE REPRESENTED HERE
Three Foreign Countries Have Four Men Here—Twelve Southern States and Five Northern States

Twenty states, the District of Columbia, and three foreign countries are represented by the 600 students enrolled here this year. This number is distributed among the classes as follows: seniors, 118; juniors, 116; sophomores, 135; and freshmen, 230—with one man doing post-graduate work. North Carolina leads in the number of students, having 356 to its credit. Then come, in order named, South Carolina, Georgia and Tennessee, each having more than 25 each. The states falling below 25 in representatives each are: West Virginia, Alabama, Virginia, Florida, Mississippi, Texas, Arkansas, Kentucky, Oklahoma, New York, Missouri, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and New Jersey, while Louisiana, and Connecticut, together with the District of Columbia, Brazil, China and Korea, can furnish only one favorite son. Of the twenty states, twelve are Southern, five are Northeastern and three are mid-western.

Of the denominations represented in the student body, irrespective of state lines, the Presbyterian Church leads with 472 adherents, followed by the Methodist, Baptist and Episcopal, these latter three not having less than 15 followers. The Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church claims eight members and the Christian three, while the Moravian, Lutheran, Friends and Catholic sects are content with a single member each. Two students did not signify their preference while 12 registered as non-church members. It is of further interest, likewise, to note that 334 students are preparing for the Bachelor of Science degree whereas 250 are pursuing courses leading to the Bachelor of Arts.

FRATERNITY PLEDGES
Beta Theta Pi—J. A. Abernethy, III, Winter Haven, Fla.; D. G. Calder, Charlotte; E. Z. DuBose, Montreat; K. L. Goodson, Lincolnton; W. J. Lane, New Bern; D. E. Marvin, Summit, N. J.; F. H. Newman, Jacksonville, Fla.; C. M. Pitts, Rock Hill, S. C.; M. L. Roddey, Rock Hill, S. C.; J. L. Sevier, Hendersonville; and J. B. Stevens, Bluefield, W. Va.

Kappa Alpha—W. W. Franklin, Bluefield, W. Va.; W. B. Graham, Jr., Bluefield, W. Va.; H. E. Hall, Chester, S. C.; J. B. Hutaff, Fayetteville; D. S. King, Bristol, Tenn.; S. J. McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.; J. D. McConnell, Davidson; J. T. Marion, Charlotte; R. K. Morton, Charleston, W. Va.; L. S. Baker, Lexington; W. R. Smith, Charlotte; A. A. St. Clair, Bluefield, W. Va.; and S. M. Woodson, Liberty, Mo.

Kappa Sigma—G. L. Bernhardt, Lenoir; J. E. Davis, Winston-Salem; H. Clay Johnson, Asheboro; J. K. Keller, Gastonia; J. A. Kleemeier, Greensboro; I. D. Kuykendall, Greensboro; W. H. Lillard, Fort Smith, Ark.; D. M. McQueen, Little Rock, S. C.; B. W. Mosely, Greenville; R. B. Orr, Asheville; and P. T. Shanks, Montgomery, Ala.Delta—B. F. E. Allen, Wilmington; J. E. Ashcraft, Jr., Greenwood, Miss.; J. T. Bradshaw, Scarsdale, N. Y.; M. L. Brohard, Grafton, W. Va.; R. W. Gorrell, Jr., Winston-Salem; W. S. Lea, Knoxville, Tenn.; T. M. Lemly, Jackson, Miss.; W. R. Rule, III, Knoxville, Tenn.; and A. E. Sowder, Christiansburg, Va.

Pi Kappa Alpha—J. M. Brown, Greensboro; Rosser Elkins, Waycross, Ga.; F. W. Harvey, Greenville; R. E. McCall, Marion; J. B. Regen, Franklin, Tenn.; and R. E. C. Roane, Winston-Salem.

Pi Kappa Phi—R. T. Covington, Clio, S. C.; F. S. Curdts, Greenville, S. C.; G. W. Dickson, Manning, S. C.; F. S. Grady, Wilmington; R. A. Hall, Statesville; F. M. Southerland, Wilmington; H. W. Turrentine, Jr., Wilmington; J. C. Wall, Jr., Eastman, Ga.; and A. H. Whitehead, Wilmington.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—A. J. Baker, Jacksonville, Fla.; T. R. Brown, Greensboro; P. M. Conway, Henderson, Ky.; J. G. Dunklin, Laurens, S. C.; E. C. Dwelle, Jr., Charlotte; E. L. Gorham, Jr., Lake Charles, La.; T. C. Hamer, Jr., Bennettsville, S. C.; J. T. John, Laurinburg; J. C. McConnell, Davidson; H. M. McKinnon, Hartsville, S. C.; J. H. McKinnon, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.; D. G. Martin, Covington, Ga.; F. W. Miles, Jr., El Dorado, Ark.; C. M. Miller, Laurens, S. C.; and N. G. Speir, Charlotte.

Theta Upsilon Omega—P. G. Menzies, Hickory; W. R. Milton, Thomasville, Ga.; J. E. Ruff, St. Petersburg, Fla.; W. W. Scales, Starkville, Miss.; and Hal Wilson, Staunton, Va.

Delta Theta Chi—T. M. Gignilliat, Seneca, S. C.; W. H. McGehee, Winston-Salem; I. C. Griffin, Shelby; W. T. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va.; W. A. McKnight, Shelby; E. B. Robinson, Jr., Talladega, Ala.; and D. G. Stephenson, Covington, Ga.

Pyramid Club—W. M. Bacon, Raleigh; G. R. Bryant, Saltville, Va.; R. P. Davis, Lancaster, S. C.; N. B. Dicks, Chattanooga, Tenn.; and M. J. Pilkinton, Charleston, W. Va.

Sigma Delta—J. R. Boyd, Greenville, and W. T. Lasley, Burlington.

In addition to the above 90 freshmen:

PHILANTHROPIC

The Philanthropic Society held a successful meeting Thursday night. The ceremony of initiation was performed for 11 new members, five of whom were upper-classmen, including two seniors. Following the ceremony and welcoming of each new member personally by the old members, a large feed was indulged in. Forty-five members were present. At the next meeting more candidates for membership will be received, and a particularly timely and interesting program is being prepared. The officers refuse to divulge the nature of the program as yet; but all are invited to come and see for themselves at 7:15.

The following men were initiated: F. S. Ervin, Wm. Matthews, B. R. Lowrance, H. L. Carr, W. H. Franklin, J. R. Byrum, F. H. Clark, F. Cawan, E. Patton, D. J. Black.

EUMANEAN

At a meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society on Thursday, the 29th, new members were initiated and the year’s forensic program was inaugurated. R. M. Kennedy spoke on Events of Current Interest and T. E. Hill on Honesty in Literature.

The query set for an impromptu debate was: “Resolved, That a Democratic Victory is to be Desired in the Coming Election.” Stuart Long and R. F. Jarratt were assigned to the affirmative, and W. B. McGuire and R. M. Christian to the negative. After heated discussion, the debate was awarded to the negative.

Immediately after the program new members were taken into the society. Those initiated were T. M. Lemly, W. W. Franklin, W. S. Lea, C. G. Pepper, C. Biggs, E. B. Robinson, J. A. Haney, J. L. Brown, C. B. Tompkins, Wm. Rule, H. F. Hollifield, and A. G. Poard. Refreshments were served.

The program tonight (Thursday) will be in the form of a discussion of Parliamentary Law, to be led by an expert on the subject from the Davidson faculty.

REVIEW SCHEDULE MADE FOR TERM

Conflicts Avoided Under New System

A new plan of holding monthly reviews and quizzes, formulated by Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, at the request of the authorities, has recently been inaugurated at Davidson. It holds promise of relieving many of the conflicts heretofore experienced by students. Hereafter, in accordance with the newly accepted method, no professor will be allowed to give any written monthly review in his subject except during a ten-day period at the close of every collegiate month. During that time reviews in all subjects will be scheduled, each day of the ten having been assigned for certain non-conflicting subjects. The arrangement is so completely perfected, it is understood, that in no instance will more than a single conflict occur the same day.

Tokio, Oct. 3—(IP)—The University of Illinois baseball team scored three runs in the tenth inning to win, 8 to 5, from Waseda University here recently.

Two members of the junior class, M. J. Kennedy, Atlanta, Ga., and J. L. Smith, Bethlehem, Pa., accepted invitations to membership from Sigma Delta and Phi Gamma Delta, respectively.

Bethlehem, Pa., Oct. 3—(IP)—Julius Seligson, 19-year-old junior at Lehigh University here, this summer won the national collegiate lawn tennis crown.

A graduate member is working for his Master of Arts. The Pre-Medical department claims seven devotees, while eight students are registered as “special students,” the three lonely co-eds falling in the last category.

YOUR SHOES

Have Them Rebuilt at the DAVIDSON SHOE SHOP

Fresh Country Vegetables at the DAVIDSON GROCERY

STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES

Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers

BARNETT and COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Good Service and Best Material

Make Our Store Your Store

A Complete Line of Drug Sundries and Students’ Supplies

CANDIES SUNDRIES PRESCRIPTIONS FILLED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

Where They Play

The second week of intercollegiate football will find the following more important teams in action:

Friday, October 5
Haskell at Des Moines; Midland at Omaha; Abilene Christian at Sam Houston; and Pacific Union at the University of Washington.

Saturday, October 6
Oberlin at Akron; Mississippi at Alabama; Clemson at Alabama Polytechnic; Bowdoin at Amherst; New Hampshire at Boston University; Worcester Polytechnic at Brown; St. Mary at California; St. Bonaventure at Canisius; Ashland at Carnegie; Wyoming at Chicago; Kentucky at Cincinnati; Cedar Falls at Coe; Southwestern at College of Emporia; Montana State at Colorado College; Union at Columbia; Wesleyan at Connecticut Aggies; Niagara at Cornell; Hobart at Dartmouth; Elon at Davidson; Drexel at Delaware; Colorado Mines at Denver; South Dakota at Duke; Southern at Florida; George Washington at Fordham; Chattanooga at Furman; Bucknell at Geneva; Mercer at Georgia; V. M. I. at Georgia Tech; Springfield at Harvard; St. John at Holy Cross; Bradley at Illinois; Oklahoma at Indiana; Monmouth at Iowa; Nebraska at Iowa State; Richmond at Johns Hopkins; Grinnell at Kansas; Carson-Newman at Kentucky; Muhlenberg at Lafayette; Willamette at Linfield; North Carolina at Maryland; Bates at Mass. Aggies; Transylvania at Miami; Ohio Wesleyan at Michigan; Albion at Michigan State; Creighton at Minnesota; Washington State at Montana; Utah at Nevada; West Virginia Wesleyan at New York University; Carleton at North Dakota; Case at Ohio Northern; Wittenberg at Ohio State; Mines at Utah Aggies; Colgate at Vanderbilt; South Carolina at Virginia; Hampden-Sidney at V. P. I.; Danville at Wabash; Presbyterian at Wake Forest; Waynesburg at Washington-Jefferson; North Carolina State at Washington-Lee; Whitman at Washington; Haskell at West Virginia; Kenyon at Western Reserve; Hiram at Wooster; Middlebury at Williams; Notre Dame at Wisconsin; Maine at Yale.

Lincoln, Nebr., Oct. 3—(IP)—Marion Broadstone, promising candidate for a line position on the University of Nebraska football team, has to wear glasses all the time, but that won't keep him out of the game. Broadstone has had himself fitted up with a special helmet, in which are built a pair of special shatter-proof glass spectacles. It is said there are about a dozen such helmets in the country.

Lafayette, Ind., Oct. 3—(IP)—A knee injury, suffered by Raymond (Pest) Welch, star Boilermaker back, has dimmed football prospects at Purdue University. Welch twisted his knee while playing baseball this summer, and it is still in bad shape, being held by two braces. Indications are he will be out of the earlier games at least, Coach James Phelan has been advised.

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows

Kansas Aggies at Oklahoma Aggies; Stanford at Oregon; Franklin-Marshall at Pennsylvania; Gettysburg at Penn State; Bethany at Pittsburgh; Vermont at Princeton; DePauw at Purdue; St. Edward at Rice; Alfred at Rochester; Albright at Rutgers; Texas Christian at Simmons; Oregon Aggies at Southern California; William-Mary at Syracuse; Centre at Tennessee; Piedmont at Tennessee Wesleyan; Texas Tech at Texas; Sewanee at Texas Aggies; Southwestern at Texas Mines; Colby at Tufts; Mississippi Aggies at Tulane; Detroit at Tulsa; Southern Methodist at Army; Boston College at Navy; California Tech at California Southern Branch; Montana at Washington State.

When in need of correct hair cuts and shaves call at NORTON BROS. in Post Office block—Three first-class workmen.

STOP! WILDCAT CAFE HOME COOKED FOOD OPEN TILL 11 P. M.

Athletic Supplies
Wildcat Belts

W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

See Andrews
Established 1890
Model 9-16

We guarantee a real THRILL when you see the New Victor Headliners. Come in—let us play these instruments for you—soon!

Andrews
235 North Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Davidson Theatre

Monday, October 8th
“The Whip” With Dorothy Mackaill

Tuesday, October 9th
“Four Sons” The Big Fox War Picture

Wed. & Thurs., Oct. 10, 11
“The King of Kings” The Story of the Christ Admission for this picture 50c Adults—25c for Children

Friday, October 12th
“Brotherly Love” Karl Dane & Geo. K. Arthur

Saturday, October 13th
“Dog Law” A Good Western

Monday, October 15th
John Barrymore in the “Tempest”