ALUMNI NEWS | TRIO OF ALUMNI | Alumni Deaths | ELEVENS COACHED | Alumni Marriages | CELEBRATE 50th YEAR OF SERVICE

Rev. J. N. H. Summerell, D.D., ’73, of New Bern, Completes Half-Century Ministry

TWO OTHERS ALREADY

Rev. Geo. L. Petrie, D.D., ’59, and Rev. Alexander Sprunt, D.D., ’75, Have Previously Commemorated Long Period

For the third time in a single year, a Davidson College alumnus will soon celebrate his fiftieth anniversary of preaching, for newspapers throughout the state have just announced that Rev. J. N. H. Summerell, D.D., ’73, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at New Bern, N. C., will hold appropriate exercises Thanksgiving to commemorate his half-century of preaching and his twentieth year with the New Bern congregation.

Rev. Geo. L. Petrie, D.D., ’59, of Charlottesville, Va., last spring celebrated his fiftieth anniversary of preaching with the church at that point and was retired from active work at the age of 88 years. Rev. Alexander Sprunt, D.D., ’75, of Charleston, S. C., during the past month commemorated his fiftieth year of service. To have three alumni who have rounded out auspicious careers as ministers of the gospel is a notable fact.

After Dr. Summerell graduated at Davidson, he taught for a while before attending Union Theological Seminary, completing his course in two years, and from there he went to the Free Church College, Edinburgh, Scotland, for one year. He has supplied pastorates in Paris, Ky., Tarboro, Rocky Mount, Wilmington, Anderson, S. C., Washington, Norfolk, Va., and at New Bern. Dr. Summerell holds a Master of Arts degree from Davidson, and the college has conferred upon him a Doctor of Divinity degree. He is a trustee of Davidson and clerk of Albemarle Presbytery.

WINNER OF NORRIS TROPHY

(Continued from page 1)

2. To be eligible for the Trophy, the prospective recipient must have attained a passing grade on at least seventy percent of his scholastic work carried during the year.

3. The Davidson College “D” Club shall nominate six men who have most distinguished themselves in athletics during the scholastic year, and present these names to the student body in the primary election. Votes may be cast for athletes other than the six nominees.

4. The winner shall be determined by a popular vote of the student body in a primary election to be held during the first week in May, and in a final election to be held ten days later. The three men receiving the highest number of votes in the primary election shall be considered as candidates for the Trophy and shall enter the final election. A majority vote determines the election.

5. Each regularly enrolled student of the college may vote once for the candidate of his choice in the primary by writing the said candidate’s name on the ballot prepared for that purpose and depositing the same in the ballot box; but after the field of candidates has been narrowed down to three by the primary, only the three men receiving the highest number of votes shall be considered in the final election.

6. Ballots for the final election shall carry the names of each of the three candidates, and the voter shall indicate his choice by a cross mark (X) after the name of the candidate for whom he elects.

7. The names of the three candidates to enter the final election shall be published in the student’s newspaper, “The Davidsonian,” and also be posted on all College bulletin boards.

8. If the three receiving the highest number of votes in the primary are below the scholarship standard adopted, the committee may substitute the names of the next highest men whose scholastic work meets the requirements. In determining the scholastic standing of a student, the committee shall be guided by the records on file in the Registrar's office.

9. All expenses incurred in holding both the primary and the final election, such as the cost of printing the ballots, etc., shall be borne by the Davidson College Athletic Association.

10. The name of the winner of the Trophy shall be given to the commencement program committee to be printed in the commencement program, and the Trophy shall be awarded along with other awards, medals, etc., at the commencement.

William Dunlap Knox, graduate of the class of 1871, distinguished Confederate veteran and for 40 years superintendent of education of Chester County, died at his home in Chester, S. C., Sunday, November 25th, after a brief illness. He was one of the most prominent men of that section and widely known for his long uninterrupted period of service in the education of that county. Mr. Knox was 81 years old at the time of his death. He and two other members of the class returned to Davidson last year for a reunion. It was the first time Mr. Knox had been on the campus since 1915. Prior to that time, he was a frequent visitor, for he served as a member of the board of trustees of Davidson.

GAIN PROMINENCE

Instructed by Alumni of College

FOUR IN SEMI-FINALS

Statesville, Concord, Wilmington, and Raeford in Semi-Finals of Both Divisions Have Davidson Mentors

The high school championship title race of North Carolina has created unusual interest among the constituency of Davidson College alumni because there is a possibility that two teams, coached by graduates of the college and former members of the Wildcat squad, will be pitted against each other in the finals at Chapel Hill if they can conquer the remaining foes in both the eastern and western sections.

New Hanover High, last year’s winner of the state title, is again coached by Bob Black, '22, and only Raleigh stands in its way for the final decision of the eastern division. Statesville high is tutored by “Doc” DeArmon, '24, and his outfit plays the winner of the Greensboro-Winston-Salem mixup for the western decision. Until the Concord game at Davidson last Friday, DeArmon’s boys had kept their goal line uncrossed. It is also unusual that four of the eight teams in the finals of the two sections are coached by alumni.The first team to tally against Statesville, but which participated in semi-finals, Davidson Concord took a licking from that eleven, has Wade Leggette and Bill Green, both graduates of the class of 1927, as mentors; and Raeford, defeated by Wilmington (New Hanover High) in the eastern race, is coached by W.G. Hodgin, '24.

Balloting in both the primary and the final election shall be conducted by representatives of the Athletic Trophy Committee. Immediately after the primary, the Committee shall determine the finalists.

The idea that the minister’s work is challenging enough is contradicted by the views of leading students. Dean Inge declares, “we are witnessing the suicide of the present social order,” while McDougall asserts, “America is speeding gaily downhill to destruction.” The task of producing real men to control the mad social order is a challenging one to every red-blooded Christian, for it is the power of Christ that will work the needed transformation, not any mere attempts at social reform without His presence.

Possibility of Finalist Teams Announcement was recently made of the marriage of Miss Annabelle Shepard, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William H. Shepard, of Greensboro, to Paul Franklin Causey, '26, son of Mr. and Mrs. David F. Causey, also of Greensboro, on November 13th, the marriage being solemnized in Brooklyn, N.Y. They have returned to Greensboro, where Mr. Causey is connected with Boren and Swain Company, of that city.

New Addresses:
L. D. Wharton, Jr., ’27, 41 Conant Hall, Cambridge, Mass.
Thos. G. Hardie, ’80, Faultless Manufacturing Co., Baltimore, Md.
C. W. Williams, '27, Hall High School, Asheville, N. C.
Wallace H. Moore, '23, 7 Winthrop Hall, Cambridge, Mass.
W. C. Hodgin, '24, Raeford, N. C.
A. Franklin Fricker, '21, Atlanta Athletic Club, Atlanta, Ga.

FRANK W. PRICE (Continued from page 1)
Frank Price is now in China doing Christian Education work among the churches. He had a large part in the formation of the new “Church of Christ in China,” a new indigenous church. He helped stir up a large delegation to the World's Christian Missionary Council in Jerusalem, which religious leaders all around the world have hailed as the challenge of the generation. In his last letter, he speaks of ‘China facing the dawn.” Frank Price is out there on the firing line, but we college students can share in the building of “New China.” Remember the motto of the Chinese people: “To the end that His Kingdom might come.”

They reached Japan just in time to be caught by the earthquake. After escaping to Kobe, they remained in Japan for two weeks doing relief work. If he could have followed his routine work as a missionary, he would be rightly called an educator, having served as Professor in Nanking Theological Seminary, Nanking University, and Hangchow College. But the life of the missionary is never routine, but colored with glamor and romance. He reached China at the outset of the great revolution that has swept the country. He was ever at the heart of the conflict, for it was right in Nanking that the first missionary was killed. Finally, Hangchow College was closed, and Mr. Price withdrew from China. While in Korea, he used his leisure time to translate Dr. Sun Yat-sen’s “Three Principles of the People.”

S & W Cafeterias are catering to you:
CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE
ATLANTA
ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

Boys, Bring Your Friends To:
Davidson Stock & Stationery Co.
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
Everything in Stationery - Kodaks - Victrolas - Student Supplies
Make Our Store Your Headquarters
“EVERYTHING THE STUDENT NEEDS”

The Asheville Citizen, in announcing the new connection of R. U. Woods, '23, with the Minnesota Mutual Life Insurance Company, made the following comment about this young Davidson alumnus: “Since Mr. Woods graduated from Davidson College in 1923, he has been a home office group representative for the Aetna Life Insurance Company, and has the outstanding record of having produced $20,000,000 of insurance during the period 1923-1928, in addition to which he assisted in the installation of one of the largest group policies ever written in the United States, namely, the Northern Pacific Railroad group in 1924. He served as the first president of the Southern Group Association and has been connected in an official capacity with the Raleigh and Charlotte branches in North Carolina and the Columbia branch in South Carolina.”

Attention has been called to the omission of the name of Dr. R. L. Carr, ’04 (North Carolina Medical College), of Rose Hill, N. C., when a write-up was printed on the alumni page about the Davidson men who had been elected to the State Senate or House of Representatives. Dr. Carr was elected as a representative to the General Assembly from Duplin County. His period of public service has been long and colorful. In 1915 and in 1923, he was a member of the House of Representatives, and Senator from the Ninth District in 1919. During the war, he served as a volunteer aide to the United States Food Administration.

Hinton James, ‘06, of Laurinburg, has been elected president of the North Carolina Fox Hunters’ Association. This is the second time in three years that a Davidson alumnus has headed this organization, Thomas W. Rankin, '09, of Fayetteville, being a former head of the fox hunters. Dr. L. W. Kornegay, '07 (N. C. Med.), of Rocky Mount, has been elected vice-president of the Fourth District Medical Society. Rev. J. G. Patton, Jr., '16, of Abingdon, Va., has been elected stated clerk of Abingdon Presbytery, and Rev. L. K. Martin, '13, of Hartwell, Ga., was chosen moderator of Athens Presbytery.

Thos. G. Hardie, ’80, is now with the Faultless Manufacturing Company, of Baltimore, Md. He will be at Davidson for the reunion of his class next commencement, according to a letter received from him by Dr. C. R. Harding, a classmate.

Information has come to the alumni office from Dr. W. McL. Shaw, '15, of Jacksonville, Fla., and Rev. J. Blanton Belk, D.D., '15, of Orlando, Fla., stating that they heard the radio program over Station WBT, in Charlotte, Tuesday night, November 13th.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DO YOU HAVE AN INSURANCE COUNSELLOR?
An Insurance Counsellor is a man trained to render you a professional service which will provide adequate protection consistent with savings in both time and money. Our organization is represented by just this type of Insurance Counsellor—men who will be glad to consult with you for your protection.
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
M. B. Speir, Jr. ('26)

THE CURRENT STYLES IN CLOTHES, HATS, SHOES AND HABERDASHERY FOR SPORTS AND CAMPUS USAGE WILL BE EXHIBITED IN YOUR TOWN ON DATE GIVEN BELOW. YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND.
At Miss Minnie Scofield’s Today and Tomorrow
Joseph S. Branch, Rep.
FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK
JACKSON BOULEVARD, CHICAGO