THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1928

“Y” Column

The “Y” regrets very much that the spring services met with such misfortune, Dr. Green being unable to get here,
and the sincere feeling of regret that the “Y” and its officers have because their plans were set aside so
suddenly.

The speaker at “Y” this week will be Dr. W.H. Frazer, president of Queens College, well known throughout the South
as a most able speaker and orator. His visits always mean much to Davidson, and this one will keep up
the same standard. Hear him, if you like to listen to a great speaker, with a fine message.

Next week Law will hold the limelight of attention in the Vocational Guidance field, and several very prominent men have
already agreed to come and lead these meetings.

Spring elections in the student body will soon start, and with them comes a great responsibility in the choosing of
men who will be the best for their respective positions. Most especially should careful thought and consideration be given to
the men who are to lead the “Y” on its next year of work. It was most fortunate in the
officers for this present year, for the men in the various places have done their work in a way that
is beyond reproach and most commendable, indeed. Think on this, and decide on the men who will keep the work
of the “Y” at the high level that it has reached in this and other years. This is YOUR responsibility.
Are YOU going to accept this duty, and give your thought to it, that the “Y” may benefit?

New Catalogue to be Released Soon

According to the announcement of the Registrar, the catalogue for 1928-1929 will be released within the next several weeks. The
second reading of the proof was made Tuesday, and the book should appear anyway by the last of March. There
are few changes and additions to the old catalogue, with the exceptions of the information concerning Honors Courses, which are
discussed in detail. The old catalogue has been mailed out to many prospective students, and this edition gives all needed
information to the new men. They will probably be mailed copies of the new catalogue as soon as it comes
out. The college catalogue is not the dry book that it sometimes seems. It is full of good advice to
incoming students, and helpful facts for old men who are not certain about many phases of college activity. Especially, departments
are devoted to helping new men decide upon their life work, and advising them as to what courses to pursue.
Better than anything else, it gives a complete resume of life as it is lived on the Davidson campus. The
“Y” has recently made a practice of placing in its files all the catalogues of other schools that are available,
so that men may go to the “Y” rooms and consult these books about various courses and studies that other
schools offer. After all, the college catalogue is a splendid source of information and every man would do well to
make more of a friend of it than he does.

Scholarships in Europe Offered to College Men

More than 40,000 boys and girls of public and private secondary schools throughout the country are enrolled in an Essay
Contest for Donated Memberships conducted by the Brooks-Bright Foundation, according to recent returns from secondary school principals from 31 states.

Selected Students Have Wonderful Chance for Education

A trip to England and return with all expenses paid will be awarded to the boy or girl who submits
the prize-winning essay on “American College Students can now spend the Junior year in France and secure courses in the
general fields of literature, economics, philosophy, history, and French language, for which full credit will be granted by most colleges
toward the Bachelor of Arts degree. For the assistance of highly recommended students interested in the Junior year abroad idea,
the Institute of International Education has established some 20 competitive scholarships of $300 each. This course is available for American
college Juniors, who are of high standing in their academic work, and is limited to the general fields mentioned above.
No courses are offered in the natural sciences, chemistry, physics, biology, that can be successfully correlated with those given in
the first two years of an American college. A minimum of four years of French, either in school or college,
is required. The cost of the year, from July to July, which includes 12 weeks in the summer session of
a French University, is about $1,500. This will cover the round-trip ocean voyage, railroad travel in France, room and board,
tuition fees, and all other necessary expenses except clothing.

Advantages that may be secured from a year's study in France are obvious:
1. Ability to read, write, speak and understand French with ease. A rare accomplishment in the United States.
2. Preparation to teach French or to fill governmental or business positions in French-speaking countries. (French is required for Essay.)

Dr. Lingle Will Assist Any Davidson Man Interested in Applying

Dr. Lingle will assist any Davidson man interested in applying for these scholarships. The “Y” hopes that the student body
will understand the importance of this opportunity and take full advantage of it.

Movies

The program will be as follows:
Thursday—Wallace Beery and Raymond Hatton in “Partners in Crime.”
Friday—Harold Bell Wright’s “The Shepherd of the Hills.”
Saturday—Zane Grey's “The Law of the Range.”
Monday and Tuesday—"A Girl in Every Port,” with Victor McLaglen and Louise Brooks.
Wednesday and Thursday—“The Legion of the Condemned,” starring Gary Cooper and Fay Wray.
Friday—Charles Murray and George Sidney in “Flying Romeos.”
Saturday—"The Law of the Range.”

N. C. Commander is Recipient of Review

Gen. Albert L. Cox, of the Army Reserve Corps, received the review of the R.O.T.C. battalion yesterday afternoon. General Cox
is the ranking officer of the Reserve Corps, and the state commander of the American Legion. He was in this
vicinity as the guest of the college.A team, and Wildcat backers can look for a good team that will make
a bid for the championship every four years. In between these years, there will be periods of seemingly endless defeats,
but these will not last forever, and the Davidson Wildcats will be seen near the top every now and then.

Every MONDAY
Louise Brooks and Victor McLaglen in “A Girl in Every Port”

TUESDAY
Rod LaRoque in “Stand and Deliver”

WEDNESDAY
“Good Time Charley”

THURSDAY
“The Legion of the Condemned.” This is a good one.

FRIDAY
Charles Murray and George Sydney in “Flying Romeos”

SATURDAY
Buck Jones in a good Western

Victor Records released March 9, 1928
21218---Ol’ Man Rixey, Make Believe. Paul Whiteman and his orchestra
21219---After My Laughter Came Tears---Fox Trot, In the Sing-Song Sycamore Tree---Fox Trot
21220---Together. Four Walls, Franklin Baur and Best of All
85583---Together. My Heart Stood Still. Paul Whiteman and his orchestra

DON’T FAIL TO HEAR THESE MARVELOUS NUMBERS:
Davidson Book and Stationery Co. Where Service and Quality Reign

The Virginians can be used for business purposes in half of the countries of Europe and many of the larger
countries of South America.

(3) Broadening of one’s viewpoint growing out of a year’s study of a civilization not one’s own.
(4) Acquaintance with a great literature, an acquisition that will be of permanent usefulness and joy. Opportunity to see and
to study some of the world’s greatest collections of painting and sculpture; and to see and hear masterpieces of opera
and drama.
(5) All these things without a loss of time in college course and at an expense not much greater than
that for an average twelve weeks’ vacation trip to Europe.

This plan of a year’s study abroad has received the hearty support and encouragement of many larger American colleges and
universities. Realizing the ultimate value of assisting select students, who otherwise would not be able to secure the broadening knowledge
and finished polish of work abroad, the Institute of International Education has offered the above-mentioned competitive scholarships.

Those interested in the Junior year abroad idea and the particulars regarding this college’s attitude toward the plan, may receive
all information from Dr. T. W. Lingle, head of the French Department. Dr. Lingle has application blanks for the scholarship
awards and will gladly assist any Davidson man interested.

Featured Shows Listed at Theatre Next Week
Varied Program Offered to Ardent Movie Fans

For next week, the Davidson Theater has prepared one of the best programs of the year. The feature of the
week is probably “The Legion of the Condemned,” which stars Gary Cooper and Fay Wray. This picture will very likely
be shown on next Wednesday and Thursday, and is said to be one of the best pictures of the season.
On this Thursday, Wallace Beery and Raymond Hatton, the well-known comedy team, will appear in “Partners in Crime.” On Friday,
the screen version of Harold Bell Wright's novel, “The Shepherd of the Hills,” will be shown. A film version of
Zane Grey’s latest novel, “Under Loato’s Rim,” will be here Saturday. On Monday and Tuesday, Victor McLaglen and Louise Brooks
will appear in “A Girl in Every Port.” All reports show that this movie is fine. Gary Cooper and Fay
Wray in “The Legion of the Condemned,” will be shown on Wednesday.

General Cox made a short talk to the battalion while it was in line for calisthenics. While here at Davidson,
he was entertained by Dr. J. W. McConnell. General Cox is now a lawyer in Raleigh. During the war, he
commanded a regiment of artillery enlisted from this part of the country. This high official was here last year about
three days just before the War Department inspection with General Boley and a large number of officers. It is said
that he was greatly impressed with the appearance of the Davidson unit, and that he remarked that the men on
parade looked as good as any regulars he had seen.

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP (Continued from page 1)

Edinburgh, Dublin, or on the Continent, he can be admitted to the fourth-year class at Johns Hopkins or Duke University
and obtain his M.D. degree in the same length of time as he would have had he not gone to
Oxford. There is great liberty of choice of study at Oxford, and a medical student can vary his work to
suit his own requirements or preferences. Some Rhodes scholars choose to spend three years in obtaining the B.A. degree in
physiology in order that they may do more extensive work in the pre-clinical subjects; others, especially those who have already
had one or two years in an American medical school, study for the D. Phil. (Ph.D.) degree in some medical
subject. Although some of these plans may require more than the usual four years for the M.D. degree, the benefits
of the additional training and the firmer medical foundation more than compensate for the added time.

The subject, “As the white population of the United States of America and the British Commonwealth of Nations has increased
in the past century from 20,000,000 to 170,000,000, in how far will the continued growth of population and the diminishing
food supply affect the future relations between these two peoples and to what extent will it affect their relations to
other nations?”

Twenty-six free memberships in the Brooks-Bright Foundation, valued at $2,000 each, will be awarded to the 26 schools which report
the highest percentage of participation in the contest in proportion to the total enrollment. Each principal will conduct his own
school contest and will submit to the directors of the foundation the prize-winning essay of his own school. A board
of competent judges selected by the foundation will pass on the merits of the interscholastic essay.

The Brooks-Bright Foundation, which was organized five years ago by Florence Brooks-Aten, of New York City, has grown rapidly in
membership and in influence. The almost unanimous support of the leading private schools in the country is evidence of the
growing tendency of international good feeling in American youth. It is Mrs. Brooks-Aten’s contention that if anything permanent is to
be accomplished in the promotion of better understanding between the nations of the world, it is to youth to whom
the appeal should be made. A more complete understanding of the economic and political relations between the United States of
America and the British Commonwealth of Nations is the aim of the foundation’s work.

Charlotte, N. C.

The Commercial National Bank
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
J. B. DOAR, Assistant Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

Founded 1874

The New VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY

ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.
