Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN October 11, 1928.

R. O. T.C. Battalion - Commences Drill

The R. O. T. C. Battalion, commanded by Cadet Major M. M. King, began training this year with 31 seniors
(cadet officers), 34 juniors (cadet sergeants), 117 sophomores (cadet corporals and cadet privates, first class), and 224 freshmen (cadet privates).
This is an increase of six over last year, when training began with a total of four hundred. Cadet Captains
R. O. Flinn, Jr., W. C. Archie, R. M. Grant, and W. M. Regen are in command, respectively, of A,
B, C, and D Companies. Cadet Captains L. D. Kirkland and D. F. Martin, Jr., are cadet adjutant and cadet
personnel adjutant, respectively.

The Band, which again this year is under the instruction of Prof. E. J. Cullum, is progressing so well that
it has been able to appear as an organization and to furnish music at two of our football games. Cadet
Captain B. H. O. Geer has been instructing the Band in marching under the new band drill regulations. The Band
played the freshman rooters on Richardson Field for the Davidson-Elon game in fine style.

Freshman instruction has been changed this year by the addition of body-building exercises in the form of drill and mass
games. This training has been instituted by the faculty this year with a view of furthering coordinated individual development of
mind and body. Its purpose is gradually to correct physical deficiencies, to aid in all-round symmetrical development, and only incidentally
to advance military training and specialized athletics. In addition to the above training, classroom recitations in elementary military subjects alternate
with drill.

Some small changes have been made in the second year basic and the advanced courses so that all instruction in
weapons will have been finished by the end of the first year advanced course. The beginning of these courses is
taken up by a study in review of the previous year’s work. Classroom recitations and outdoor drills alternate.

The battalion has been formed twice for drill this year. In spite of the fact that the freshmen had had
only one hour's instruction in the handling of their rifles and very little more in marching, the presence of the
upper-classmen seemed to convey a large measure of confidence to them and enabled the battalion to make a creditable showing.

Classical Frat to be Installed Here

Plans are being completed for the installation of a chapter of Eta Sigma Phi, national classical fraternity, at Davidson this
fall. A date for this ceremony is to be arranged with the national headquarters of the fraternity. The chapter of
Eta Sigma Phi of Winthrop College, at Rock Hill, S. C., has been designated to have charge of the installation
here.

What is to be the Alpha Nu Chapter of Eta Sigma Phi is now known as the Classical Club. This
club, which is also known as Gamma Nu Tau fraternity, was successful in its petition for a chapter of the
national fraternity. The Classical Club was established for those interested in the classics and the promotion of them. In order
to become a member one must have been an outstanding student in advanced Latin or Greek. E. P. Moye is
president of the club, and W. E. Hill, Jr., is secretary and treasurer. Three bids to join the fraternity have
already been issued this year. They were to E. E. Marsh, A. T. Edelman, and Dean Rusk. Due to the
fact that the chapter of Eta Sigma Phi has not been installed here yet, and it does not have a
representative on the Honorary Fraternity Council, these bids were not issued at the same time with those of the other
honorary fraternities.

She—"Will you marry me?”
He—"I'm afraid not.”
She—"Aw, come on, be a support.”

Bill—"Please stay, Frances, I have only one fault.”
Frances—"You're a liar.”
Bill—"Yes, that’s it.”

Host—"Do you feel quite at home?”
Guest—"No. I’m having a swell time.”

THIRTY SONGSTERS PICKED FOR WORK IN D. C. GLEE CLUB

Monday night the final try-outs for the Glee Club were held and 30 men were selected. Inasmuch as well over
a hundred men tried out for the club this year, Professor Cullum states that he has been able to pick
a much better balanced group than he had last year. His greatest find was in first tenors, for it was
in that section that the club lacked men last year. In previous years the number in the club usually reached
40, but this year the director and officers have thought it advisable to concentrate on the best 30 men, believing
that this will produce an even better club than Davidson has had for some years past.

The club, with P. B. Fry as president, and R. S. Abernathy as manager, is as follows:

First Tenor: A. J. Thompson, Frank Pilcher, R. P. Davis, J. E. Bradley, W. M. Hunter, C. C. Clark, E.
B. Peterson, S. R. Coker.
Second Tenor: C. L. Creech, J. A. Cannon, Jr., O. T. Gibson, W. E. Phifer, Jr., J. A. Wilson, A.
G. Foard, B. H. O. Geer.
First Bass: W. C. Archie, R. W. McDermid, R. S. Abernathy, C. E. Brown, C. C. Orr, Jr., R. B.
Orr, G. B. Pardington, E. Z. DuBose, R. A. Boggess.
Second Bass: R. M. Christian, C. J. Albright, R. W. Kirkpatrick, C. K. Poole, J. H. Ramseur, L. L. Burr.
Pianist: P. B. Fry.

Mr. Cullum has announced that the club will be able to do a higher grade of music this year than
last since it is not limited as to voices. The tentative program of the club concerts contains these distinct groups:

First: Classical music. In this group will come the concert orchestra and choral and folk songs by the club.
Second: Interlude, during which will come the skits and the jazz band.
Third: Lyrical and dramatic songs by the club. These groups are only general and songs foreign to the group will
be introduced into the group for the sake of variety.

Director Cullum seems much pleased with this arrangement of the program, believing that it will add much to the effectiveness
of the concerts this year.

ANNUAL PICTURES TO BE TAKEN IN FALL

Picture-taking time, boys looking their best—when everyone combs his hair and straightens his tie. But what a relief to get
it over with. Getting away to an early start, Gardner Greens, photo editor of the Annual, is finishing up all
of the individual pictures of the students. There are usually around 450-500 of the total number enrolled who have their
pictures taken. This year, although the enrollment is less, Gardner hopes to have about 575 taken. So far the boys
have been rather bashful about keeping appointments and a general call has been sounded which will get most of the
others.

The representative of White Studio, New York, who is in charge of the picture-taking, will leave Saturday, so all those
who yet have to have theirs taken had better see him this week, or it will be too bad. Individual
pictures of the cheerleaders, and of the football and basketball players, and track, will be made in the spring, also
those of the “D” Club. No individual pictures will be taken at that time. Group pictures will also be made
some time in the spring. The prints of the pictures being taken now will be back by the last of
October or the first of November.

“There,” exclaimed wifey in disgust, “I knew that overnight friend of yours was not to be trusted. I have just
counted the towels and one of them is missing.”
“Was it a good one?” inquired the semi-interested husband, mildly.
“It was the best we had. It was the one with ‘Poinsett Hotel’ on it.”

She—"Don't you know that there are germs in kissing?”
Cadet—"Say, girlie, when I kiss I kiss hard enough to kill germs.”

A lot of men that used to be self-possessed are married now.

WHOLESALE

When You Need CANDY SEE US
26-28 South College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Student Store Has New Directing Board

Kell, Jackson, McGill, Bailey and Powell Compose Board

At a recent meeting of the board of directors of the Student Store, new officers were elected and plans were
discussed for the operation of the store for the coming year.

The board is composed of five members: two students—one to be elected by the incoming Student Council, and the president
of the Student Body to serve as the other; one faculty member chosen by the outgoing board of directors, and
one faculty member and one student chosen by the Athletic Association.

New officers who were chosen to serve on the board for this year are as follows: R. E. Kell, president,
representing the Student Body; F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the College; M. W. McGill; W. H. Bailey, representative from the
Athletic Association; and W. M. Powell, Student Council representative.

A meeting of the board is held each month, at which time the manager of the store submits a financial
report and deposits the monthly net profits with the treasurer.of the Students’ Store is directly responsible to the board of
directors.

Prospects in Tennis Excellent for Year

Opening the season with three lettermen back, tennis prospects at Davidson this year are very bright. One place on the
team is open for competition, and this place is being closely contested. The lettermen returning are Roddey, captain; Halverstadt, manager,
and Johnston. Those showing up well for the place vacated by Carr are Bradley, Poe, and Gilmour. No schedule has
been arranged for next spring, but either a Southern or an Eastern trip is planned according to an announcement by
Manager Halverstadt. Several matches with Charlotte “Y” and Salisbury “Y” are also being arranged for this fall. In addition to
these trips, the team is making plans to enter the North Carolina state tennis tournament. The Freshman tennis team has
bright prospects for the coming year, several former high school stars being out for the team. Steps are being made
toward the organization of this team and toward a schedule for the coming season.

Golf Team Loses by Seven Point Margin

In the match with the Concord Country Club recently, the Davidson golf team lost by the margin of seven points.
The two teams met on the Concord course. Two foursome matches of 18 holes each were played. The Davidson team
was composed of Captain A. L. Mills, J. K. Pepper, J. A. Cannon, and W. L. Hart. Scoring was made
on the basis of two points for each hole, there being a total of 36 holes played and 72 points
possible. Cannon and Hart lost their match by nine points while Mills and Pepper won theirs by two points. Furr,
of the Concord team, made par on the last nine holes, ending up with 79 for the 18 holes. Captain
Mills also made 79 for his round. The selection of teams for future matches will be made by means of
a tournament before each meet. Medal play will be used and the four men with the lowest scores will constitute
the team for that match.

Bright Frosh—“Who do you think you are, anyway?”
Campus Sheba—“A woman—Nature’s noblest piece of architecture. Who are you?”
Bright Frosh—“A building inspector.”

Fresh-Soph Review Schedule

| PERIOD | WED. | THURS. | FRI. | SAT. | MON. | TUES. | WED. | THURS. | FRI.
| SAT. |
|--------|-------|--------|------|------|------|-------|------|--------|------|------|
| 8:55 | Bible 1A | French 1C | English 1A, 1C | English 1H | Math. 1F | Econ.
1A | Ger. Ab | Ger. Aa | Greek 1D | Biol. 3 | Span. Ab | Latin 2A |
History 1A |
| 9:50 | Math. 2B | Bible 2E | French 2A, 2B | Physics 2B | P. Sp. 1A |
Physics 1C, 1E | Econ. 1B | Latin 2B | Greek 1A |
| 10:45 | Math. 2A | Span. 2A, 2C | Biol. 2B | History 1B | P. Sp. 1D |
| 11:40 | Bible 1E | Bible 2A | English 2A, C, G | Span. 1B | Math. 1I |
Math. 1G | Latin 1A | Chem. 1C, 1G, 1K, 1M | Greek 2A, 2C |
| 12:35 | P. Sp. 1E | Bible 1D | Chem. 2B, D, H | Spanish 2A, 2C | Biol.
2A, 2D | English 2B, 2D, 2E, 2F |
| 1:30 | Math. 2C | French 1D | French 1B, 1E | Math. 1L | Math. 1H | Span.
Ac | German Ac |

Peking, Oct. 10—(AP)—Chinese youngsters have caught the “spirit of modern youth,” and recently have gone their American cousins one better
in the way of dictating to their elders. Pupils of the Peking Middle schools, boys and girls from 12 to
16 years of age, even less advanced than pupils of that age in the United States, have become so thoroughly
imbued with the “new idea” that they have organized a union and have issued a mandate to the educational authorities
setting forth exactly what sort of men must be appointed as principals of the middle schools here. The requirements are
unique, and, with the exception of the second article, rather vague. They require:
1. Middle school principals must have a clear understanding of the Three People’s Principles of the late Dr. Sun Yat-sen.
2. They must have been engaged in local educational work for at least three years, and must be well known
among local educators.
3. They must all be recognized as men of character.
If requirements of the pupil's union are not met, the youngsters threaten, they will refuse to attend school.

Paris, Oct. 10—(AP)—Discovery that four little-known mural paintings by the French painter Corot are threatened with ruin in the little
church at Villa d'Avray, has resulted in a movement for better protection of such art heritages. Corot did much of
his best work in the village on the outskirts of Paris. It was during his stay there that several other
painters offered to decorate the walls of the church. Although not orthodox in his religion, Corot was always sentimental, and
he selected one of his best canvasses to be hung in the chapel. His generosity continued, and he completed the
four murals within a few months. They are in the painter's Italian style, and represent four scenes from the New
Testament. Time and weather have seriously injured the paintings, which are unfortunately placed so high in the church that they
rarely meet the eyes of visitors. It is now proposed that they be transferred to canvas by a process recently
perfected in Italy.

Johnny—"Don't leave me, darling. Why, you used to call me your constant delight.”
Josephine—“Yep, delight that failed.”

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY, OCTOBER 15th
John Barrymore in “The Tempest”

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16th
Richard Barthelmess in “Out of the Ruins”

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 17th
Lois Moran & Geo. O’Brien in “Dry Martini”

THURSDAY, OCT. 18th
George Bancroft in “Docks of New York”

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19th
“Napoleon”

SATURDAY, OCT. 20th
Rex Bell in A Good Western

FEATURES BOOKED FOR CHARLOTTE AUDITORIUM

Paul Whiteman’s Orchestra Engaged for October 16

As in seasons past, Miss Grace Brown, manager of the Charlotte Auditorium, has booked some of the leading musical, vaudeville,
and operatic attractions available for the next few months. On October 16, Paul Whiteman’s orchestra will be there for both
matinee and night performances. Other attractions announced are as follows: Charlotte Walker in “Whispering Friends,” November 6; “The Beggar King”
opera, November 10; “The Desert Song,” November 19; “Trial of Mary Dugan,” November 21; “Vagabond King,” December 5; “Good News,”
December 10; Doris Niles and her company, January 1; Chawin Savin, February 1; and Rio Rita, February 3.

Whether the rise of Davidson stock is to continue, or will subside into obscurity, will be determined by a duet
of engagements during the next couple of weeks, when two Sandlapper elevens pit their forces against the Presbyterians. Reticent brokers,
in the personages of Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson, have little comment to make about their next two mixups,
preferring to await further results of the phenomenal Wildcat spurt. Feline encounters seem to be on Davidson's menu, with the
Wildcat meeting the Terrier of Wofford on Richardson Field at Davidson next Saturday, and battling the Bulldog of the Citadel
at Charleston, S.C. the following week. The Davidson players have already experienced a clawing contest with the Clemson Tiger, and
if reports are true, the Palmetto State has several teams of formidable importance. Teams of Wofford and the Citadel are
in the same category as Clemson’s fighters.

JUST A LITTLE DOPE

Davidson's opponents broke even in games won and lost last week, winning five and losing five. Following are results Saturday:
Guilford, 9; Roanoke, 38.
Clemson, 6; Auburn, 0.
Wofford, 25; Erskine, 12.
Citadel, 19; Stetson, 0.
Wake Forest, 7; P. C., 12.
V. M. I., 0; Ga. Tech, 13.
N.C. State, 6; W. and L., 38.
North Carolina, 26; Maryland, 19.
Duke, 25; South Dakota, 6.

Scheduled for this week:
Guilford, no game.
Clemson vs. N. C. State, at Florence.
Wofford vs. Davidson, at Davidson.
Citadel vs. Newberry, at Charleston.
Wake Forest vs. William and Mary, at Williamsburg.
V. M. I. vs. Roanoke, at Lexington.
U. N. C. vs. Harvard, at Cambridge.
Duke vs. Boston College, at Boston.

Bill—"I just had a drink of nip and tuck whiskey.”
Joe—"What kind is that?”
Bill—"One nip and they tuck you under.”

When in need of correct hair cuts and shaves call at NORTON BROS. in Postoffice block—Three first-class workmen

A good shoe to ask for by name—MONTROSS

There is style in the prices, too! No longer need the well-shod man pay the price of out-of-date production methods.
Inefficiency is outmoded. Modern methods enable John Wards to lead in quality, in style, yet sell for dollars less! Buy
your next pair here—at seven and nine dollars!

By WM. H. BAILEY
Davidson, N. C.
