Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

Student Body Aglow With Yuletide Glee

Although the campus is not bedecked as is Ivey’s or Efird’s in Charlotte, with countless red and green lights, yet
it does not take a wizard to realize that Christmas is approaching. To use a rather hackneyed expression, “It won't
be long now.” Everybody seems to be just a little happier as each day brings the holidays nearer. More smiles
can be seen as one crosses the campus, and the familiar “Hi, Gentlemen” sounds a little more cordial than usual.

The holidays afford to many the first opportunity of going home since school opened—three and a half long, weary months
ago. To those who are lucky enough to be able to go home an occasional weekend, it gives the chance
to turn two happy days into two short but glorious weeks. For two whole weeks, no one will have to
think of getting up at eight o’clock, for fear of sleeping through chapel, no longer will to arise and go
to classes with the harsh clanging of a bell, no one will have to sit up ‘til the small hours
poring over books to keep from getting “shot” on the next day’s classes. Two weeks with nothing to do but
eat, sleep and have a big time—what could be better?

It is needless for the writer to give the following statement but for the benefit of a few freshmen who
are having a little trouble with freshman math, here it is: It is exactly nine days, 16 hours, and thirty
minutes until the old bell will ring for the last time for two weeks.

LIBRARY ADDITION

Among the new books now on the shelves of Davidson College Library are: “A History of English Literature,” two volumes
covering from 650 to 1914 A. D., by Louis Cazamian, “The Mediaeval Stage,” volumes 1-2 by E. K. Chambers, “The
Elizabethan Stage,” volumes 1-2, by E. K. Chambers, “The Spirit of the Age,” by William Hazlitt, “Barchester Towers,” by Anthony
Trollope, “Table Talk,” by William Hazlitt, “The Works of Anthony Trollope,” “The Play of Richard Sheridan,” “Villon’s Poems,” “Robinson Crusoe,”
by Daniel Defoe, “Poems and Plays.”

The Drinking Society

“Mystery and secrecy is dear to the youthful mind,” says De Lysle Ferree Cass in an article on the history
of early secret organizations in the January College Humor. “Hence the many secret societies in steadily increasing numbers throughout the
country. After the early class and debating societies came Phi Beta Kappa, organized in 1776 with aims that were purely
social.

“The Yale chapter was installed as a select debating society, with initiation suppers where the juice of Bacchus flows. It
was the first Greek letter society whose active membership was not confined to a single undergraduate class. In those days
the student rathskeller was as characteristic as were peg-top trousers. Almost every college town boasted one or more such drinking
places where the students gathered. These parties—never in mixed company—were known as ‘beer busts,’ ‘beer fests,’ and ‘keg parties,’ and
were provocative of good-natured mirth and fast fellowship. They represented no alcoholic craving, but were of Greek hocus-pocus mysticism.

“Secrecy was abandoned in 1830 and since that time membership has been almost exclusively an honorary distinction. The most dangerous
of the class secret societies was Theta Nu Epsilon, known as T. N. E. and now abandoned almost everywhere. It
perpetuated all sorts of excesses and violence with the utmost impunity, encouraging drunkenness, dissipation, immorality. It worked much as the
present Ku Klux Klan. Good fellowship, sporty proclivities, liberal spending, and an unusual capacity for holding hard liquor became the
determining qualifications for membership. No T. N. E. ever allowed a girl to wear his pin except in tacit commemoration
of her ‘moral frailty.’ The Greek letters of the society’s name were popularly alleged to signify ‘Thirst Never Endeth.’”

LITERARY SOCIETIES

“The Life and Works of Alfred Noyes” was the subject of the program of the Philanthropic Literary Society at its
meeting Tuesday, December 4. A sketch of Noyes’ life was given by H. L. Carr, of the Freshman class. The
President, Frank Hall, read several of Noyes’ poems including, “The Highwayman,” “Forty Singing Seamen,” and “The Admiral’s Ghost.” Due to
the fact that the Varsity Debating tryouts were held the same night the exercises of the Eumenean Society were limited
to the installation of new officers. The new officers are: J. R. Graham who succeeds W. L. Dumas as president,
W. B. McGuire who succeeds R. M. Christian as vice-president and M. W. Norfleet who succeeds A. R. Bird as
secretary.

Work Is Started on Dome of Chambers

Work on the Chambers building is going forward rapidly. All of the plastering in the right wing is completed and
at the present time the floor concrete is being poured in steadily. The building is closed in except the dome
which is now being erected. There are approximately 75 men working on the building. All of the steel work is
complete and the basic work on the heating and plumbing is complete. The dome is to be octagon shaped at
the base and it will be built entirely of stone. The roofing of the building is copper, except for the
stone dome. The central section of the building will be comprised of the chapel, a banquet hall, and the faculty
club rooms. The new right wing will house the physics, biology, and geology departments and will furnish ample room for
laboratories and equipment. The workmen are working toward the completion of the New Chambers building so as to have it
ready for use at commencement.

Dr. Sentelle Called

Comedy Presented By Dramatic Club

Friday night the Dramatic Club presented “Moonshine,” a one-act play starring John Z. Preston and Stewart Meacham. Preston took the
part of Luke Hasie, a cold-blooded “moonshiner,” and Meacham that of Jim Dunn, a very tricky revenue officer. Both played
their roles exceedingly well.

As the curtain rises the moonshiner drags a man into his cabin and unties his hands. “I don’t think you
will try to run,” said Luke, tapping his trusty old forty-five, “I don’t suppose you will fool around many more
‘stills’ after today. See that picture on the wall, that is Jim Dunn after we have let him hang about
a week. I wish I had caught him instead of you for he jailed about half our gang last week.
But don’t let that make you think that you ain't going to get shot.”

“You can’t make me mad,” answered the prisoner, “I have been trying to get myself killed for the last month,
I am afraid to kill myself for I don’t know where I will land after I leave this earth. You
know Pete and how he hates niggers, well I told him he had nigger blood in him and he asked
me was I sure and I said yes. Then he pulled out his gun and shot himself. I was so
disgusted I didn’t wait to see if he died. There is nothing in life worth living for so I want
to die.”

“Well,” replied the moonshiner, “you needn’t expect me to do your killing for you, if you want to die, kill
yourself, but you ain’t going to make me be responsible for your death. I have killed twelve Crosbys in a
feud but I ain't going to shoot you. You had better get out of here right now—take my horse to
ride back to town on.”

“You mean you are not going to shoot me?” cried the captive, “Why one more murder won’t mean anything to
you; but if you won't kill me I don’t suppose I can make you. I am going to leave you
my name so if you are ever in New York you can come to see me. I’ll write it on
the back...”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of this picture.” After writing his name on the picture he took Luke’s horse and left. Soon after, Luke glanced
at the name his visitor had left.

December 13, 1928

CAMPUS FOOTBALL REIGNS SUPREME

For some months football reigned supreme. Every day from right after dinner until sunset boys in all sorts of garb—a
merciful public kindly dubbed them “athletic outfits”—poured out to the varsity athletic field and practice field to enjoy for a
few hours Prince Football, son of King Football. Probably more took part in this form of exercise than in any
other, and rightly so, for it is one of the best kinds, combining the advantages of a great many others.
Because of the large number of boys, it was often necessary to run two games, one on each field. What
a pity that the sporting public had to miss the beautiful twenty-yard passes, superb tackles, and the eighty-yard runs with
which these games abounded! Shouts and laughter, breath wheezing joyfully from tired lungs and throats, a little bit of cigar-shaped
pigskin zipping through the air; campus football! This game has all the benefits of “Rugby” without its attendant dangers, hence
its lack of popularity among the fans. But now! Grandfather Muscle-Building Exercise has stepped in and King and Prince have
bowed in submission. The throngs now go to the gym. A faithful few still carry on, the pigskin still zooms
toward waiting hands, and the gay laughter of youth still splits the air.

ONE thousand writers and artists should please you! Percy Marks, the Montrosses, Katharine Brush, James Montgomery Flagg, and hundreds of
college writers and artists have made the January COLLEGE HUMOR especially brilliant. Pointed Heels, a two-part story of sophisticated men
and women, written with all the charm and skill of Charles Brackett. And See the World, a story of sailors
on shore leave in the sailor vernacular, by John V. A. Weaver. “Political Theories,” by Merriam Barnes; “An Essay of
the Virgins of the House of Commons,” by R. G. D. Laffan; “Personality in Politics,” by W. Bennett Munroe; “The
Story of Western Railroads,” by Robert Riegel; “Whither Mankind,” by Charles Beard; “The World Court,” by Antonio Bustamante; “The Relation
of Government to Industry,” by Rudolph Stammler; “The Theory of Justice,” by Rudolph Stammler; “The Reserve Banks and the Money
Market,” by W. Randolph Burgess; “Main Street and Wall Street,” by William Ripley; “The Labor Problem,” by J. A. Estey;
“Judicial Interpretation of Industrial Law in the United States,” by Charles Pergler; “Framley Personage,” by Anthony Trollope; “Loyalties,” by John
Galsworthy; “The Journal of the Tour to the Hebrides with Samuel Johnson,” by James Boswell; “The Life of Lord Curzon,”
by The Earl of Ronaldshay; “Everyday Problems of the Everyday Child,” by Douglas A. Thom; “General Psychology,” by Smith and
Guthrie; “Psychologies of 1925,” “The Philosophy of Grammar,” by Otto Jespersen.

“Kappa Beta Phi, directly burlesquing Phi Beta Kappa, was another sophomore secret society but this flourished only for a decade
or so until the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead Act. The Dekes at Syracuse, by Howard Barnes,
an intimate picture of this fraternity group—who they are, what they do and what they like. Other stories of youth,
love and college—other articles of sports, travel, humor.

Christmas Offer

A gift that shows taste, lasts the year around and that is appreciated by everybody—sister, brother, sweetheart, friends in foreign
ports—that’s COLLEGE HUMOR. Two gift subscriptions are but $5.00, three colors inscribed with your name. You send the names and
addresses and we do the rest.

Correction

In last week's issue of The Davidsonian it was stated that W. P. Mills was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford,
being appointed in 1922. Mr. Mills was actually there from 1907 to 1910, being an appointee at the same time
with Dr. B. R. Lacy, Jr. The former from South Carolina and the latter appointed from North Carolina.

Mr. Jack Sentelle Dies At Greenville, Tennessee

Dr. Sentelle, dean of the college, was called to Greenville, Tenn., early Friday morning on account of the death of
his nephew, Jack Sentelle. Mr. Sentelle’s death was very sudden, and a distinct shock to both friends and relatives. Though
he had been a life-long sufferer from heart trouble, no immediate concern was felt over his condition. Death occurred while
out driving in his automobile, accompanied by a friend. Dr. Sentelle returned to the college on Monday night.

COLONIAL INN
Davidson, N. C.
Under Management of Registered Dietitian
HAVE WE SERVED YOU?

Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real College haircut. Norton Bros. has three real barbers.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
Session 1928-29
First Semester
A. M. Examinations Begin 9:00
P. M. Examinations Begin 2:00

JAN.
FRESHMAN SOPHOMORE JUNIOR AND SENIOR
FRI. A.M. English 1 English 2
18 P.M. Biology 2 Biology 2 Biology 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
History 1
SAT. A.M. Chemistry 1 Chemistry 2 Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
19 P.M. Economics 2, Education 2
MON. A.M. Bible 1 Bible 2 Astronomy, Geology 1
21 P.M. Pub. Speak. 2; Philosophy 4
TUES. A.M. German A German 2 German 3, 4
22 German 1, Greek 1 Greek 2 Greek 3, 5, 6
P.M. Physics A Physics 1 Physics 2, 3, 4, 5, Philosophy 3
WED. A.M. Business 3, Economics 1 Psychology 3
23 P.M. Math. 1 Math. 2 Math. 3, 4, 5
Polit. Sc. 3
THURS. A.M. Spanish A Spanish 2 Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6
24 Spanish 1 French 1 French 2
P.M. Phys. & Hygiene Public Speaking Philosophy 1, Business 2
Political Sc. 4, Economics 4 Psychology 1
FRI. A.M. Geology 3, Polit. Sc. 1
25 Education 3
P.M. French A French 2 French 3, 5, 8, 9
French 1
SAT. A.M. Latin 1 Latin 2 Economics 3, Geology 2
26 Latin 3
P.M. R.O.T.C. 1 R.O.T.C. 2 R.O.T.C. 3, 4
Psychology 4

You will find here more than the average number of shoe styles just suited to the college man’s taste. John
Wards are preeminent. See them on display:

Aubrey Brown
Representing John Ward MEN'S SHOES

Printed and Embossed
ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.
