THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1928

Alumni Council Plans Dinner And A Meeting

Dr. J. P. Matheson, President, to Entertain Council at Manufacturers’ Club

At the invitation of Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99, president of the Davidson College Alumni Council, members of the council and officers of the general alumni office will attend a dinner at the Manufacturers’ Club in Charlotte, Thursday evening, April 19th, at 6:30 o'clock. Immediately following the dinner, members of the council will consider reports and recommendations of the general alumni officers, and will take final action on a number of important matters.

First in importance will be a discussion of the method of electing alumni members of the board of trustees. Under a recent revision of the college constitution and by-laws, provision was made for the selection of 12 alumni trustees in lieu of six as formerly provided for. Nomination of six new trustees as well as two successors for alumni trustees, whose terms expire this year, is scheduled. Perfection of a method of electing these men, so that every member of the alumni association may participate in the balloting, is also included on the calendar of matters to be acted upon by the council at their Thursday evening dinner-meeting.

A discussion of plans and arrangements for alumni reunions, scheduled for Commencement, including consideration of the proposal that the president of the alumni council be elected on general ballot rather than upon nomination at the annual Commencement alumni dinner, is predicted. Financial reports, as well as a general report on activities of the alumni office, will be rendered by the alumni secretary.

Members of the alumni council include, in addition to the two secretaries of the association, Dr. J. P. Matheson, president; Rev. J. C. Rowan, D.D., '04, Concord; F. L. Jackson, '06, Davidson; Hugh Query, '09, Gastonia; Dr. Oren S. Moore, '08, Charlotte. Mr. J. A. Scott, '11, of Statesville, who is vice-president of the association, will also attend the dinner.

In Charlotte To-Night

Yale Seniors State Their Preferences

Seniors in Yale College, according to preferences indicated in the annual class vote, prefer a Phi Beta Kappa key to the “Y” earned in major sports, like Harvard next best to Yale, consider Lindbergh and Mussolini the outstanding world figures of the day, and Lindbergh the man now living they most admire. They also believe that prohibition has harmed college life, that English is the most valuable subject and psychology the least valuable, and they are opposed to splitting the college into smaller units.

Seniors in the Sheffield Scientific School voted Lindbergh their favorite world figure, a major “Y” more desirable than Sigma Xi, and Princeton their favorite college next to Yale. Their favorite in fiction is d’Artagnan; in history, Napoleon; among novels, Tom Jones; among prose authors, Thomas Hardy; among poems, If; and among poets, Kipling. These were only a few, a very few, of the matters on which the seniors declared themselves.

Davidson Book & Stationery Co.

KODAKS VICTROLAS SUNDRIES

Meet Your Friends at the Davidson Book & Stationery Co. Everything for the Student Where Quality and Service Reigns SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE

The Commercial National Bank

Founded 1874

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs. 4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Government. Make us your Executor. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
L. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Asst. Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Asst. Cashier

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Announcement has just reached the alumni office of the engagement and approaching marriage of Albert Carmichael Wood, '20, to Miss Katherine Kinnon Binford, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Julian Binford, of Atlanta, Ga. The marriage will take place in May at the home of the bride’s parents, in Atlanta. Mr. Wood is a popular young business man of Charlotte, and is connected with the Charlotte Hudson automotive sales company of that city.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Rev. A. M. McLauchlin, '99, who has been pastor at Williamsburg, Mo., has recently moved to Chester, S. C., and will be in charge of a group of churches near that city.

Rev. Robert King, D.D., '06, of Pulaski, Va., will preach the commencement sermon to the graduating class of Danville Military Institute, and Rev. Robert W. Miles, '11, of Lynchburg, Va., has been chosen to deliver the baccalaureate address at the same institution.

Rev. W. C. Jamieson, '13, has resigned his pastorate.

Friends of T. D. Dupuy, '01, of Greensboro, and Frank S. Dupuy, '89, of Wilmington, Calif., will regret to learn of the death of their mother, Mrs. Mary Sampson Dupuy, which occurred recently.the home of Dr. Henry Louis Smith, ’81, of Lexington, Va. Mrs. Dupuy was a mother-in-law of Dr. Smith and Dr. Walter L. Lingle, Sr., ’92, of Richmond, Va. Friends will also regret to learn of the engagement and approaching marriage of Mr. William Theodore Spencer, ’26, of Gastonia, N.C., to Miss Ernestine Donnelly Livingston, of Orangeburg. Miss Livingston, who was graduated from Winthrop College, has been a teacher in the Gastonia public schools for the past two years. She is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. L. W. Livingston, and is popular among the younger set of both Orangeburg and Gastonia. Mr. Spencer is engaged in business at Gastonia, where he holds a responsible position with the Spencer Lumber Company. The marriage will take place in June, following which Mr. and Mrs. Spencer will make their home in Gastonia.

Mr. P. M. Robinson, '23, of Lexington, N.C., was married to Miss Opal McCully, of Statesville, in Salisbury, Saturday, March 24th, at the home of Rev. Edgar A. Wood, '19, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church. Mr. Robinson is the son of Mrs. Lucy Robinson, of Newton, and the late C. C. Robinson, of Denver. He received his education at Davidson, graduating in the class of ’23, following which he entered business at Lexington. Mrs. Robinson, the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Irvine Gilbert McCully, is a bright and attractive young woman. She was born in Oregon, but has spent most of her life in Montana, where she was educated at the University of Montana. For the past year she has held a responsible position with the Statesville daily as editorial and office assistant. Mr. and Mrs. Robinson will make their home at Lexington.

Mr. Henry Martin White, ’24, of South America, will be married to Miss Annie Leila Barr, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. George Thornwell Barr, of Columbia, S.C., at an early date, according to an announcement just received at the alumni office. Miss Barr is formerly of Greenville, S.C., and was graduated from Flora Macdonald College, at Red Springs. Mr. White is the son of Dr. and Mrs. Hugh M. White, of Virginia. He is a civil engineer, located with the R. W. Hard Company, at Medellin, Colombia, S. America. The marriage will take place in Panama in April.

Morgan and Richardson to Speak at Graduation

Dr. Frank C. Morgan, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Augusta, Ga., has been chosen to deliver the baccalaureate sermon before the senior class on May 27th, which service will begin the annual commencement exercises. Dr. Morgan is the son of Dr. Campbell Morgan, world-famous preacher and Bible student who for a number of years held the same pulpit that his son now holds. Dr. Frank Morgan is a fine speaker and puts his message over in a very impressive manner. The senior class is indeed fortunate in securing a man of such prominence to deliver the baccalaureate sermon.

On Tuesday, May 29th, the Rev. Donald W. Richardson, of Richmond, Va., will deliver the literary address. Dr. Richardson has been a missionary of the Presbyterian Church in China. He is a graduate of Davidson College and of Princeton Theological Seminary. While at Davidson, Dr. Richardson was valedictorian of the class of ’02 and the recipient of several scholastic and forensic honors. During his service in China, Dr. Richardson has served as a professor in the Nanking Theological Seminary.

Dr. George Howard, '12, superintendent of the Rowan County schools, will deliver the literary address at the commencement of Harrisonburg high school.

Rev. C. C. Beam, ’09, of Charlotte. Robert Critz, ’17, of Winston-Salem, N.C., has purchased an airplane for individual use, and has been invited to use it in coming to the Davidson commencement in May. It will not be long before the alumni office will have to provide a landing field for its alumni who return to Davidson for Homecoming and Commencement.

TOOTS SLING

makes the mind study at night. The weather is most favorable for your chosen sport and we are ready to furnish the necessary equipment at reasonable prices. See the new golf and baseballs and a bag for golf balls. Tennis racquets, tennis balls, and sets. Three irons and a driver, the St. Andrews set, $9.00. Kroflite set.

The Students Store

If You Want Your Frat Pin Back, Take Her a Bag o’ Lance’s Salted Peanuts
Lance Packing Co., Inc.
Charlotte, N.C.

“IT’S YOURS; WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?”