READING furnishes the mind only with materials of knowledge; it is thinking that makes what we read ours.—Locke.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
WELCOME N.C.C.P.A. DELEGATES

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 1, 1928 No. 7

DELEGATES ASSEMBLE FOR PRESS CONVENTION

Five Seniors Win Coveted Campus Honor
Hill, Myers, Lake, Bailey and McConnell Receive Bids

IMPRESSIVE CEREMONY
O. D. K., National Honorary Fraternity Recognizing Leadership Organized Here in 1917

In a peculiarly impressive ceremony, Delta circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, extended bids to five members of
the Senior class in the annual fall Tap-Day exercises following chapel Tuesday morning. The men receiving the high collegiate distinction
were: W. H. Bailey, of Rock Hill, S. C.; T. W. Hill, of Richmond, Va.; C. R. Lake, Greenville, Miss.;
E. R. McConnell, of Davidson, and A. N. Myers, of Greensboro.

M. M. King, president of Delta circle, introduced the pledging ceremony with a few remarks on the aims and history
of Omicron Delta Kappa. It was organized at Washington and Lee University in 1914 as a local honorary leadership fraternity.
Its success and need were so greatly felt that other schools began to apply for permission to organize circles on
their own campuses. Consequently, a chapter was organized at Davidson in 1917, and became Delta circle, the fourth to be
granted a charter. Since its organization here it has grown in influence and distinction, and membership in it is considered
as high an honor as may be obtained in college.

The men chosen last week for membership will be initiated next Wednesday night, November 6. The initiation, which will be
secret, will be followed by a banquet in the Quadwranglers’ Club room in Oak Row. The five men who received
bids were all men of ability and were outstanding as leaders. W. H. Bailey is captain of the 1928 Wildcat
track squad, on which he has won honors in pole-vaulting. He was vice-president of the Junior class and is serving
this year on the Student Council. He has worked in Eumanean Literary Society and Delta Pi Kappa honorary society. His
social fraternity is Kappa Alpha.

(Continued on page 6)

NINE MEN RECEIVE BIDS TO MILITARY FRAT WEDNESDAY

On Wednesday afternoon the Davidson battalion held its first formal parade of the year on the Freshman athletic field. Featuring
the afternoon's ceremonies was the extension of bids to cadet officers by the local company of Scabbard and Blade, national
honorary military fraternity. After the battalion had been formed on the athletic field, the following men were called forward to
be decorated with the ribbon signifying invitation to Scabbard and Blade: S. L. Black, R. G. Calhoun, W. L. Dumas,
G. H. Green, G. E. Herriott, W. M. Long, D. E. Martin, E. R. McConnell, and W. E. Phifer. Major
M. M. King decorated the officers, who then took a place with the battalion staff. The unit then passed in
review with the members-elect reviewing the parade.

The formal initiation into the fraternity was held Wednesday night. After preliminary ceremonies in the armory building, the members of
Scabbard and Blade went with the new men to the freshman field, where the public initiation began. Special fireworks, machine
guns, trench mortars, and other implements of war were used in this event. Leaving freshman field, the group proceeded to
the golf course, where the serious ceremony of initiation into the ranks of Scabbard and Blade was held. Cadet Major
King, ranking officer in the local chapter, conducted the initiations. When the ceremonies had been completed, the old and new
members of the fraternity, together with the army officers assigned to Davidson, were entertained at a banquet by Captain and
Mrs. John W. Elkins.

Colonel W. R. Scott and his staff of instructors have expressed themselves as being highly pleased with the progress of
the military work up to date.

(Continued on page 4)

CAMPUS LEADERS
W. H. BAILEY
C. R. LAKE
A. N. MYERS
E. RIGGS McCONNELL
T. W. HILL

Seniors Receive Bid to O. D. K.

“Engravograph” Will Be Published Twice During Convention
Charlotte Engraving Company Makes Publication of Paper Possible

One of the features of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Convention, which is to be held at Davidson for the
rest of the week, is the publication of a special newspaper for the delegates. This paper is being published by
the Charlotte Engraving Company, and will have two issues. The first of these is to be in the hands of
the delegates at their opening banquet, tonight, in the Maxwell Chambers hotel. The second will be delivered to the delegates
on Saturday, sometime near noon.

Members of the Program committee are editing this paper, which is called “The Engravograph.” It will be of four pages,
and will be slightly smaller than this sheet. The first issue is to consist largely of pictures of the campus.
There will also be the supposed likenesses of the several members of the program committee, both at Davidson and at
Queens College. There will be articles relating to the Association and the Convention, with a welcome from the president of
the student body, Kell. There will also be an artist’s sketch of the delegates’ arrival, as well as a rather
humorous squib by Prof. Daniel, of Clemson, who is to be here also, at the opening banquet of the meeting.
All of the details of this first entertainment are being made possible by the Charlotte Engraving Company.

This publication is thought to be something of an innovation along these lines, and should be a very good detail
in the convention.

Statesville Pastor To Lead Y Vespers Sunday, November 4
Dr. Raynal, of First Presbyterian Church, is Speaker

Dr. Charles E. Raynal, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville, will be the speaker at the Sunday evening
vesper service, November 4. For many years Dr. Raynal has served his congregation in Statesville. Under his leadership, the magnificent
new church building there has been erected, and a great many notable civic improvements have been accomplished. Dr. Raynal is
a civic as well as religious leader, and his tireless efforts to enhance the physical beauty of his town have
placed him in a deservedly popular esteem.

Dr. Raynal has always had an intimate knowledge of people and conditions in the South. Born in Savannah, Ga., his
great store of information concerning his own people has served him well during his ministry. Princeton University was the seat
of his learning, since he attended that institution several years. Then for a time he held a pastorate in Birmingham,
Ala., and after that he was called to the church at Statesville.

Dr. Raynal is a great student of nature, he is a lover of books, and a gifted workman in carving.
His library is probably the most extensive in his city, and carrying this love of literature still farther, he has
been instrumental in founding a library at Statesville. In his own private

(Continued on page 6)

DR. JAMES WILSON SPEAKS ON NOVEL
“The Changing English Novel,” Subject of Address

Centering on the subject, “The Changing English Novel,” Dr. James Southall Wilson, Edgar Allan Poe Professor of English at the
University of Virginia, delivered an address in Shearer Hall, Monday night.

Doctor Wilson has been rated as one of the foremost authorities on Poe's tales in America, having edited a collection
of Poe's tales, which is used by the English department of this college. Since 1919 he has been editor of
the “Virginia Quarterly Review.”

This year Doctor Wilson stated that his purpose was to trace the novel from its beginning and to show how
it assumed its present form. He added, however, that there is at the present day no form of the English
novel.is a member." The members of the league with which Davidson has scheduled debates are: Alabama, Emory, and Birmingham. He
stated in part as follows:

The novel, like all living and developing forms of literature, is constantly changing. It has assumed many varied forms in
its development, and often it has taken many different forms at the same time. None of the writers of present
novels have any one thing in common. Readers of novels are now more voracious and unsatisfied than ever before, because
of the fact that they cannot know (Continued on page 6)

CONVENTION PROGRAM
North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1st
2:00—5:00—Registration of Delegates at "Y" Rooms.
5:00—Reception at Fraternity Court.
8:00—Banquet at Maxwell-Chambers Hotel, compliments of Charlotte Engraving Company.
9:30—Theatre Party, compliments of Stough Brothers.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2nd
9:00—Meeting at Shearer Hall. Welcome by President Wm. Joseph Martin, Davidson College. Address by Julian S. Miller, Editor Charlotte News.
Report of Publications. Appointment of Committees. Business Session.
12:00—Adjournment to Charlotte. Transportation courtesy Bierman Engraving Company, Charlotte.
1:00—Luncheon, Myers Park Club, compliments of Queen City Printing Company, Charlotte.
3:00—Address by Hugh Murrill, Jr., vice-president Queen City Printing Company. Queens College.
4:00—Tea, Queens College.
5:00—Theatre Party, compliments Carolina Theatre.
7:30—Dinner, Hotel Charlotte, compliments Observer Printing Company.
11:00—Return to Davidson.

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3rd
9:00—Meeting, Shearer Hall. General Business Session. Reading of Minutes. Report of Committees.
9:30—Discussion Groups. Business Managers, Miss Irene Kahn, E. Davidson, and L. C. Boyer, Observer Printing Company. Managing Editors, Geo. Ehrhart,
and Miss Rubie Scott, Eumenean Hall. Annual Editors, Miss Jean Craig, Queens, and Frank L., City Printing Company. Phi Hall.
C. T. C., Lawrence Dumas, Shearer Hall. Carolina, Salem Fleming, Queen Newspaper Editors, Miss Katie Gravely, N. C. C. W.,
and Aubrey Brown, Davidson. "Y"-Room, Number One. Magazine Editors, Miss Evelyn Jolley, Meredith, and Thorpe, Duke.
11:00—Address by Lee Weathers, president North Carolina Press Association. Shearer Hall.
11:30—Meeting, Shearer Hall. General Business Session. Selection of Next Meeting Place.
11:50—Adjournment.

HERBERT HOOVER, Republican presidential candidate, who carried colleges of the nation two to one.

HOOVER IS WINNER OF COLLEGE VOTE
The final results of the presidential straw vote conducted by College Humor and college newspapers throughout the nation were released
Monday, October 29. The Davidsonian held a vote on the local campus September 14 which resulted in a win for
Governor Smith with a plurality of only 15 votes out of the total of 411 cast. In the first American
college straw vote ever taken by College Humor magazine and the college dailies, Hoover received a two to one vote.
At the September registration this year there were 892,808 students in the 1,104 American colleges, of which 544,685 were men
and 348,123 were girls. This army of voters (most of whom had never had any experience at the polls) have
been termed by Democrats and Republicans as the hope of America. The two parties should be interested in figures obtained.
The co-operation of the college newspapers was secured, the majority of them running ballots on their front pages. Voting boxes
were placed at strategic spots on the campus. Returns were wired to Chicago at the latest possible moment. Thousands of
secret ballots were mailed by College Humor to fraternities and sororities in every college. In many schools, particularly in Southern
states, students campaigned for their favorites. Analysis showed that Hoover had carried 38 States and the District of Columbia. Alfred
E. Smith carried 10 states: Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas. Dividing the
country into zones, every one of the following eastern states voted for Hoover: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island,
Connecticut (Continued on page 3)

Five Men Selected By Reporters’ Club At Special Meeting
New Men Are Berry, Long, White, Black, and Matthews

By a special vote of the Reporters’ Club Monday night, five men were elected to membership. They were J. G.
Berry, H. W. White, J. B. Black, O. B. Long, and J. C. Matthews. These men were chosen for their
journalistic ability, length of service, and faithfulness. The Reporters’ Club is an organization for the purpose of contributing news articles
to the Davidsonian. It is the organized reportorial staff pledged to the support of the paper. An initiation of the
new men will probably be held sometime in the near future, though the date has not been decided. In the
past, the neophytes have been required to give a public stunt at one of the games as a part of
the initiation.

Davidson Host to 16th Semi-Annual Press Convention
Collegiate Press Association Convened Here Four Years Ago
75 DELEGATES EXPECTED
Queens College and Charlotte Firms Aid Splendidly in Entertainment

As the final arrangements for the Press Convention are being made, several final details have been added to the program.
As soon as they have registered, the delegates will be entertained by a reception in the several fraternity houses. At
the Thursday evening banquet, which is being made possible by the Charlotte Engraving Company, a feature in the form of
a newspaper for the convention will be presented to the delegates. Pratt, of the Davidson program committee, will serve as
the Toastmaster. The Davidson orchestra will provide music, assisted by a student quartet, and a soloist from Charlotte. At the
termination of this meal, the Davidson Theatre is providing a special showing of "Me, Gangster" for the delegates. Lee Weathers,
the president of the State Press Association, will be the feature speaker at the opening business session of the convention.
Mr. Weathers will speak after the president of the college welcomes the delegates to Davidson. To take the whole convention
to Charlotte, Mr. Bierman, of the Bierman Engraving Co., has secured from his own and other allied organizations, some fifteen
cars. These cars will convey the convention to the Myers Park Club, where the Queen City Printing and Engraving Co.
has arranged to serve the delegates luncheon, while being entertained nobly, with such items as Keith's Vaudeville, on the program.
From the Myers Park Club, the delegates, about seventy-five or eighty in number, will have to walk over to Queens
College, where the girl students of that college will have provided the necessities for a tea. Before this tea, however,
Mr. Hugh Murrill, vice-president and manager of the Queen City Printing Company, will address the delegates. (Continued on page 6)

FREW CHOSEN BY JUDGES TO GO TO ORATORICAL MEET
Tryouts for the contest being sponsored by the American Legion—orations on "The Duty of the Voter," were held in Shearer
Hall last Friday night. The State contest will be held in Raleigh, N.C., on November 5. The afternoon of that
day will be devoted to the elimination of all but five of the speakers. That night at 8:00 o'clock will
be the finals. Speeches are to be delivered at St. Mary's College. The American Legion is sponsoring this oratorical contest
for the purpose of getting the American voter to vote according to principles and convictions and not according to party,
and also to create more interest in the coming presidential election. Coming at this time, the contest will create much
interest. The local contest was won by Allan M. Frew, who delivered an unusually good oration. Frew has already distinguished
himself as an orator of no mean ability, having recently won third place in the National Oratorical Contest, speaking on
the Constitution. Others entering the preliminaries here were: G. P. Pardington, and Jack C. Matthews, of the Freshman class, and
Lawrence Dumas, of the Sophomore class. The judges were Prof. R. McGrew, Prof. E. Brown, and Dr. D. Greke. Schools
entering this contest are Carolina, N. C. State, Wake Forest, Elon, St. Mary's, and probably others. The winner will receive
a beautiful loving cup, offered by one of the leading Raleigh banks. A cash reward of seventy-five dollars goes to
the winner. Second place will receive twenty-five dollars in cash. These amounts will in all probability be raised before the
time for the finals on November 5, as several organizations have announced their intentions to make donations.
