November 15, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Oxford Degrees Are Difficult to Obtain
By W. Y. ELLIOTT
Assistant Professor of Government at Harvard, Rhodes Scholar from Tenn. to Balliol College, Oxford; D. Phil. Oxon., 1923.

Just after the war, when Oxford had yielded to the pressure brought to bear upon the Convocation to grant the graduate degree of Doctor of Philosophy so necessary to attract mature foreign students, the D.Phil. (as it is stubbornly called), was something of an x in an equation whose variables had still to be established by precedents. From the beginning, it was clear that the University had no intention of awarding the degree to industrious clerks for what is known in America. The research had to be done, but in the presentation of the results and their interpretation, the faculties of Oxford uniformly insisted upon some distinction of style and thought. Naturally, the mortality among the first candidates permitted to come up for the degree was shocking. The chagrin of many candidates entirely worthy of Ph.D.s in the approved American tradition was only equaled by the mortal terror that their fate inspired in those who had not yet come up for the examinations, which include a written general examination, the scrutiny of the thesis, and the public viva voce.

It became evident that many students, chiefly Americans, were being admitted to advanced standing and allowed to read for the degree who did not possess the critical maturity to work almost unaided upon a major research problem. Accustomed to the careful shepherding of courses and seminars, the American students were quite lost, as a rule, when confronted with the necessity of saving their own souls, aided only by what was often the very casual advice of a supervisor, and by the bewildering wealth of lectures and libraries in which they might browse at will. The University turned, therefore, after some pressure from the Society of Postgraduate Students, to the expedient of not admitting to candidacy for the degree without an extra-legal probationary period of a term or two of reading in the field with a tutor. The student who came heavily fortified with previous graduate work, with recommendations, and with a clear-cut formulation of an acceptable problem might hope to escape this testing. Others, even though they were burdened with M.A.s and Phi Beta Kappa keys, depended then, and I believe still do, upon the tutor’s willingness, at the end of the probationary period, to vouch for the candidate’s maturity and ability to do independent research. The results have been to make the mortality less heavy. Often the blow is further softened by giving the Bachelor of Literature Degree as a sort of consolation prize.

The Oxford Doctorate of Philosophy is, however, something of a gamble still, in which one has to be willing to back his ability to produce a book worthy of publication in extenso and one the judgment of difficult critics. He must be willing to derive such help as falls to him from the supervisor whom he desires. In any case, if he is a competent student, he can hope to get the supervisor whom he desires. In any case, if he be willing to work pretty much alone for the necessary minimum of six or seven Oxford terms (the smaller number for high honors men who have done the Oxford B.A.) he may enjoy an opportunity that no American university affords for absorbing, unhindered, the cream of a rich tradition of scholarship. Of course, this freedom has the defects of its virtues, but its virtues are very real. We in the United States bewail the falling off of historians who can write, the lack of scholars who are something more than specialists. Yet our graduate study, perhaps because of the nature of our undergraduate study, assumes the character of rigidity and inflexibility in the program both of special and general studies equaled only by Medieval Scholasticism. We turn out increasing numbers of men acquainted with a large field, well-grounded in a special field, and unable to think or write with any depth or distinction about either. In their graduate study, they have been led by the hand too long. The words of a great president of one of our greatest universities come to me, as he commented on a doctor's thesis: “Exhaustive, uninspired, uncritical, dull—thoroughly worthy of our Ph.D. degree.”

The blight of the Ph.D.—there is such a thing—has not descended upon the Oxford degree as yet. For the very reason that its administration is still flexible, that its award is made dependent upon results, not on formulae for fulfilling certain requirements—an independent graduate student may find it very heaven. For research in philosophy, history, literature, politics, law, the humanities, this is particularly true. I fear, it is not equally true in economics or in psychology or in some of the physical sciences where the guidance of great scholars is more difficult to be had just now at Oxford. In the other fields, whose opportunities have already been presented as subjects of study, I can say from experience and observation that the student need not want for guidance or advice, if he does not require that he be personally conducted to the degree. The libraries and the lectures at Oxford are adapted to special students as well as to undergraduates. The travel and vacations afford an entry into the freedom of a whole storehouse of European scholarship.

What, after all, do we expect of graduate study? For those who hope merely for a teaching degree, Oxford is not the place. But for those who desire to study a problem under a master, and within reach of a wealth of tools, Oxford offers unique opportunities. The degree has not yet been “organized” to uniformity of standards. It is still a little exotic to Oxford life. But the candidate who can work in that rich atmosphere of a fellowship of scholars that is an Oxford College will have only himself to blame if he lacks intellectual stimulus and if he fails to gain the rare perspective of a wisdom that lives on intimate terms with classic antiquity, its own medieval past, and the contemporary problems of a great empire. At its best, he will grow instead of being forced.

ARMISTICE DAY (Continued)from page 1):

"To honor, to express our appreciation for their courage, their resolution to suffer hardships and to expose themselves to death and danger that the cause of freedom might be saved. We honor and respect these brave men who are with us today. But we especially want to pay our tribute of respect and devotion to those of our own college as well as to the thousands of others in America who poured out the rich blood of youth that home and country might be made safe.”

Dr. McConnell then gave some interesting facts and figures upon the cost of the World War. That at the end it was costing ten million dollars an hour, three times the total value of Davidson College, plant and equipment. He stated that the money loss was not the greatest, that the cost in human lives was the greatest, that “sixty-five million physically fit men called into service, eight million were killed in battle or died of disease, nine million were so seriously maimed and crippled that they are a liability to society, twenty-one million more received wounds of greater or less severity.”

Following an eulogy of Woodrow Wilson, the great War President, who once attended Davidson, Dr. McConnell closed with: “Paraphrasing the words of Lincoln, The world will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did there. It is for us, the living, rather, to be dedicated to the unfinished work which they thus so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be dedicated to the great task remaining before us—that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause which they gave the last full measure of devotion—that we here highly resolve that the dead shall not have died in vain—that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom and that peace may be brought to the hearts and homes of all men.

“Who goes there, in the night, Across the storm-swept plain? We are the ghosts of valiant war— A million murdered men.

“Who goes there, in the dawn, Across the sun-swept plain? We are the hosts of those who swear, It shall not be again.”

Tommy (age three): “Come in, Aunt Mary. The water is fine.” Aunt Mary: “Oh, no. I have no bathing suit.” Tommy: “Oh, that's all right. I haven't got any either.”

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

S & W Cafeterias are catering to you

WINNERS OF STATE CONTEST

The Lenoir High School Band, winners of last year’s state high school contest, will play here in conjunction with the local R. O. T. C. Band here Home-Coming Day. The band, which approximates 40 members, is one of the most colorful organizations in the state. It has also been engaged to play at the Duke-Davidson game at Durham on Thanksgiving.

The officers of the society are: Mr. Moye, president; Miss Sara Thompson, vice-president; Mr. Henry Goodwin, corresponding secretary; Mr. W. M. Norfleet, recording secretary; Miss Julie Thompson, chairman prayer meeting committee; Miss Marjorie McFrew, chairman music committee; Miss Helen Johnson, chairman missionary committee; Mr. Frank Hall, student chairman church committee.

BIG ATTENDANCE AT C. E. SOCIETY MEETINGS URGED

Very Attractive Programs Are Held Every Sunday Evening at 6:30 o’Clock

An organization of the local church which attracts a number of the students, but which is hardly known to many others, is the Senior Christian Endeavor Society. Its meetings are held at the church each Sunday evening at 6:30 o'clock. This society strives to bring the principles of Christian Endeavor “For Christ and the Church” before the young people of the community. Many of the students have been members of the Christian Endeavor Societies before coming to college. Here is an opportunity that will fit them, if they desire to continue such activities.

As one of its activities, the society helps in the choir at the Sunday night services, which is a service especially for young people. There are about 40 members. The Sunday night services are very interesting, with special music as a feature of each program. The social life of the society is also emphasized. Socials of many kinds are given throughout the year. All who are interested in the society’s activities are cordially invited to attend its meetings.

Total Investments

Washington, D. C. (CNA) — Endowments for all types of schools in the United States in 1926 exceeded $1,000,000,000, it was stated by the Bureau of Education, Department of the Interior. Colleges and universities lead the amounts reported. The Bureau reports that the total valuation of all school property in 1920 was approximately $8,125,085,472, and that the grand total of enrollments in all types of schools was approximately 31,037,736.

Motto for Motorists: Pedestrians should be seen and not hurt. Time saved at a crossing may be lost in the emergency ward.—Milwaukee Sentinel. Another: Say it with brakes and save on the flowers.—Judge.

Don’t kid about safety. You may be the goat.—Louisville Courier-Journal.

No domestic science course is necessary to enable a girl to make a traffic jam.—Florence Herald.

If you do not find your friends at the Alumni Office look for them at—

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

“I’d rather have a Chesterfield!”

It is considered the height of bad form, they say, to carry your own sandwiches to a tea—or to pack your own blanket for the week-end—but luckily, no such outlandish conventions surround the smoking of your own cigarette. “I’d rather have a Chesterfield,” fortunately, is a phrase which not only remains “good cricket” in polite circles—but at the same time brands the smoker as a person of rare discernment and excellent discrimination. And small wonder, considering all the remark implies. Good taste, top quality, the rare sparkle of tobacco goodness—all these combine to justify the choice of that man who thus shows his keen judgment. “I’d rather have a Chesterfield”—a neat line, that—the mark of a real connoisseur and the password of six million smokers.

CHESTERFIELD

MILD enough for anybody... and yet... THEY SATISFY

LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO Co.