THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1928

LITERARY SOCIETIES

The Davidsonian wishes to be of as great a service to the societies as is possible. With few exceptions, the
paper comes out on Thursday afternoon. It would be a definite incentive to attendance if the advance program could be
published in the issue of that day. Such a plan has been tried in the past but failed owing to
the inability of obtaining the program. With cooperation from the persons in charge of making out the programs, the paper
can be of service to the societies.

Political Situation Discussed by Phis

The last meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was devoted to the political situation. The feature of the program was
Charles McCrae and Bud Guthrie, affirmative, and Dan Currie and J. P. McBryde, negative, debating on the following query: “Resolved:
That All Candidates for Student Body and Class Offices Should Be Allowed to Make Speeches in Their Behalf.” The affirmative
won the decision. Prof. Erwin made a talk on the political situation while he was a student. In his scholastic
day, the position of Chief Marshal was the most coveted honor that could be bestowed on the campus, and it
seemed to be sought by all methods. Prof. Erwin explained the political machines of that day. He stated that the
girl who received the sash worn by the Chief Marshal was the queen of the hour while the sashes worn
by his subordinates were by no means uncoveted.

Tonight’s Program

Debate: “Resolved, That Capital Punishment Should be Abolished.” Affirmative, C. E. Kraemer, B. F. Brown; negative, C. H. Dubose and
E. G. Epps. An oration by M. A. Morrison.

Judge John J. Parker Speaks On the Ideals of the New Professions

Three Fundamental Relations of Law Discussed by Eminent Judge

Davidson students interested in law were afforded an opportunity of hearing one of the foremost jurists of the state, when
Judge John J. Parker, of Charlotte, spoke for the Vocational Guidance Institute last Thursday night at Shearer Hall. Judge Parker
is a judge in the Circuit Court of Appeals of the fourth district, and before accepting the judgeship he was
a prominent lawyer practicing in this state. In beginning the discussion of his topic, “The Ideals of the Law Profession,”
Judge Parker stated that in his opinion law is next to the ministry in importance and benefit to the world.
He continued in substance as follows: Lawyers have played a wonderful part in the development of this country. They formulated
the Constitution, which is our greatest legal institution, and they today fill, aside from the judiciary, the most important places
in the legislative and executive sides of our government. This is not only because they have special training, but also
because the people trust the lawyers. There are three fundamental relations in the life and work of a lawyer. They
are: his relation to his client, to the law, and to the state. The lawyer must hold the utmost trust
and confidence, and it may be said that he does not betray this trust. Through his relation to the law,
the lawyer is in a position peculiar to his profession. He does not sell his services like a commodity, but
it is his duty and privilege to stand for the protection of right and the redress of wrong. The lawyer’s
time is given to the study of the perfection of reason and his standard of success is reached when he
has learned the law and has interpreted it to his fellows. In the third relation, that of the lawyer to
the state, he holds a position of importance as leader of the thought in his community. This opportunity is also
a responsibility for there are thousands of questions the solutions of which depend upon the lawyer. One of the greatest
of these problems is the present disrespect for law, and one of the greatest things a lawyer can do is
to set an example of respect for law before the people. It is the duty of the lawyer to preserve
our constitutional government and to interpret the Constitution. In entering into law as a life work, one must keep in
mind that it is not a trade, but a profession which gives an opportunity to serve.

Advanced Students Form French Club

Under the leadership of Professors Watts and Moore, the members of the advanced French classes met on Monday night at
the home of Dr. Watts to organize a French society, Le Cercle Francaise, with the ultimate view of becoming affiliated
with the Alliance Francaise, an international society located in New York. At the first meeting, the 17 charter members were
present. Officers were elected and plans for the affiliation with the Alliance Francaise, a well-known French society under the direction
of M. Paul Claudel, the French Ambassador to the United States, were discussed. The officers of Le Cercle Francaise, as
chosen Monday night, are: Charles Allbright, president; Francis Ghigo, vice-president; Hal Johnson, secretary; B. W. Miller, treasurer. The charter members
of the society, composed of the advanced French students, are: C. J. Allbright, J. A. Alexander, G. W. Crawford, Clisby
Dubose, Francis Ghigo, H. C. Johnson, J. G. Johnson, R. R. Kane, Chas. Lanier, B. W. Miller, J. P. McKnight,
R. M. Stevenson, J. P. Thompson, Shelby Vance, Caldwell Withers. Invitations have been extended to the following faculty members by
Le Cercle Francaise: Professors Crow, Brown, Lilly, Lingle, Vowles, and Cummings. These six, together with the seventeen student members and
professors Moore and Watts, constitute the membership of the society. The formation of such a society has long been needed
on the campus.Render the most important service. Law demands certain attributes in a follower of it. It demands character and
honesty; courage, both moral and intellectual; learning, and idealism.

Distinctive Stationery For College Men
Plain and With Seal
Kodaks
Superior Fountain Pens
Films
Soda
Books
Kodak Finishing Service
Student Supplies
Davidson Book and Stationery Co.
Where Service and Quality Reign

Preliminaries for Golf Matches

In three or four days the students who wish to try out for the Wildcat golf team will have the
preliminaries. The preliminaries will be a 36-hole match from which six or eight men will be chosen. These men will
pair off for the finals, which will be held in the near future. There are only two of last year’s
players back this spring, A. L. Mills and B. G. Wilson.

The team has already three or four matches with colleges and country clubs. On April 4th the Wildcats will meet
the Washington and Lee Generals. The next meet scheduled will be with Wake Forest on the 2nd of May, at
Greensboro. They will meet the University of North Carolina golfers on the 3rd and Duke on the 4th. Then on
the 5th the team will enter the State Tournament at Greensboro, where they will meet the different college and country
club teams of the state. Matches with two or three country clubs are tentative. There seems to be a great
deal of interest taken in golf this spring as many of the students are out every afternoon playing prior to
the preliminaries. There will be many aspirants for positions on the team this year and the competition will likely be
great.

The following is the tentative schedule:
Washington and Lee—April 4th.
Wake Forest—May 2nd.
Carolina—May 3rd.
Duke—May 4th.
State Tournament—May 5th.

Team Will be Held Soon
Schedule This Season to Include Five

Columbia Seminary Men Speak Before Students
“Being a Workman” is Theme Chosen by L. Burney

At the weekly meeting of the Ministerial Band, last Sunday, Mr. L. Burney and Mr. McDowell Richards, both of the
Columbia Theological Seminary of Atlanta, and Davidson graduates, were the chief speakers. Paul Thrower acted as chairman of the meeting.
Mr. Richards is the son of Dr. C. M. Richards of Davidson. After making a few introductory words, he turned
the meeting over to his colleague. Mr. Burney’s text was taken from the second chapter of Second Timothy: The writings
of an experienced man to an inexperienced. The following phrases from the fifteenth verse were used: “Study to show thyself
approved of God.” and “A workman that needeth not be ashamed.”

Words of praise are pleasant to us. They should be a means of power to lead us on to greater
things. Instead, they sometimes turn us backward. Being a workman is our theme—we should ask ourselves that question: “Am I?”
There must be a task to be accomplished. Paul had a task—that of spreading the Gospel, which he realized he
hadn't accomplished, and in his letter to Timothy, he is turning the task over to him—that task still incomplete today
and Paul is turning it over to us. It will always be our task. What is the minister’s and the
Christian worker's task? That of the Christian worker is different. It can be called the remodeling task. At one time
man was perfect, but fell from grace when the apple was eaten. The life of a man can be reconstructed
as a building. We are tools of Jesus Christ for this purpose. We must submit ourselves as Timothy did. “Am
I a worker for Christ?” Each has to answer for himself.

The formula for work that the Physics textbook gives is: Force times the Distance equals the Weight. On one condition,
the Force and Distance are in the same line of direction. We have the force through Jesus Christ. We know
the distance. Are we thinking of applying the force and distance in the same direction? Is there a practical force
behind our faith? Are we joy riding in life—just saying: “I don’t know where I’m going, but I’m on my
way?” A man doesn’t drift into success in this life. It’s the one who knows the direction, that succeeds. Are
we willing to exert every effort for Christ? Are we willing to apply the Force and the Distance in the
same direction?

“Will you marry me?”
“No, you drink.”
“Then marry me and save me.”
“I don’t want a husband preserved in alcohol.”—Texas Ranger.

“It’s terribly disagreeable in Montana in the summer, isn’t it?”
“Why, yes, but we have Great Falls.”—Virginia Reel.

“Do your shoes hurt?”
“No, but my feet do.”—Nebraska Awgwan.

Let him who is without gin cast the first moan.—Northwestern Purple Parrot.

STAY ON THE FAIRWAY; STICK TO CAMELS!

Somewhere between your collar-button and the bottom of your plus-fours there’s a smoke-spot—seeking “fill-fullment.” The vast majority of jobbies who
feel that in’ard hankerin’ have discovered what to do about it. They pull a cool cloud of joy away down
into it—and slowly exhale fragrant Camel smoke.

Tobacco science has produced in Camel a superb blend of the choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos. Just revel once in
the delicious, quivering aroma of a cloud of Camel smoke. We'll bet a caddie to a left-handed niblick you'll never
get off that fairway!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N.C.
