THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 4, 1928

Local Battalion of Highest Rating

For the third consecutive year, the U.S. War Department has seen fit to inspect the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Unit of Davidson College. The past two years saw Davidson placed on the Distinguished Rating list, last year taking the honor of having the highest average in the South. In 1926, Davidson won Distinguished Rating with an efficiency percentage of 89.5 per cent. In 1927, the percentage was raised to 92.43 per cent. This was the highest rating given to any school in the Fourth Corps Area, which includes North and South Carolina, Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi, Florida, and Tennessee. Of the 15 schools recommended for the inspection, only six received the coveted honor. They were: Citadel, Clemson, Florida, Auburn, Mississippi A. & M., and Davidson.

The rating is made on a 100 per cent basis. The work is divided into three distinct phases, which are, in turn, subdivided into minor phases, each of which counts a certain percentage toward making up the 100 per cent. The following is a table showing the percentages used last year:

I. Support of R.O.T.C. by institution and student body - 27%
1. Adequacy of facilities for practical instruction - 5%
2. Adequacy of facilities for care of arms, clothing, equipment, and instruments - 3%
3. Adequacy of facilities for office, recitation, and assembly rooms, and military laboratories - 4%
4. Percentage of acceptance of commissions by R.O.T.C. graduates of the preceding year eligible for commission prior to September 1 of that year - 5%
5. Condition of clothing, arms, and equipment issued to students - 4%
6. Condition of arms and equipment issued to the institution - 5%
7. Academic credits of each course - 4%

II. Efficiency of Theoretical Instruction - 30%
1. Teaching methods and organization of instruction - 2%
2. Tests of students in subject matter of courses - 28%
   Basic course value - 9%
   Advanced course value - 19%

III. Efficiency of Practical Instruction - 43%
1. Organization of instruction so as to obtain the maximum use of R.O.T.C. personnel and equipment furnished - 3%
2. Appearance, discipline, courtesy, formal ceremonies - 5%
3. Physical training and general physical condition - 4%
4. Command and leadership (practical test) - 3%
5. Tests of students in subjects prescribed for their respective courses - 28%
   Basic course value - 9%
   Advanced course value - 19%

Aggregate score - 100%

Quick-Witted Liar

“Well, little woman,” said the proud husband returning from his fishing trip, “what do you think of this bunch for a catch?”
“You can’t fool me,” she answered; “Mrs. Smith saw you at the fish market.”
“Why, yes; you see I caught so many I had to sell some of them.”—Pathfinder.

Second Platoon of “B” Leads Battalion

The second platoon of Company “B” at present leads the list of platoons in having the best line on Wednesday parades, according to a recent statement by Captain Daugherty. Lieut. R. A. Glenn is commander of this platoon which has so far gained 24 points. Lieut. R. S. Lowrance’s platoon, the first of Company “A,” although leading in first places, comes second in the list with 19 points. Lieut. W. A. Cathey, second platoon, Company “C,” gets third place with 15 points to his credit. The second platoon of Company “D,” commanded by Lieut. A. M. Smith, is fourth with 12 points.

After the inspection, an award will be presented to the platoon which shows the most consistently good line on parade. The lines have been judged throughout the year, the first platoon receiving three points, the second two points, and the third one point. The results of the last two parades have not yet been announced to the battalion. They are as follows: Wednesday, March 21st, first, First Platoon, Company “A”; second, Second Platoon, Company “A”; third, First Platoon, Company “B”. Wednesday, March 28th, first, The Band; second, First Platoon, Company “B”; third, First Platoon, Company “C”.

GENERAL BOWLEY POSSIBLY TO RETURN TO THIS STATE

General Bowley will probably return to North Carolina, announces an editorial writer of the Charlotte Observer. General Bowley was recent commander of Fort Bragg, North Carolina, from which place he was transferred to Fort Sam Houston, Tex. In his position as commander of Bragg, General Bowley came into contact with several Davidson men who attended camp at that place. He has been a guest of the local R.O.T.C. unit on several occasions and has spoken to the battalion. North Carolina evidently has laid a claim upon the heart of the General and it is the belief of The Observer that August will find him back in the Piedmont section. What his occupation will be upon his return was not announced.

Mother—“George, you know that unbreakable toy you gave Dick for his birthday?”
Father—“Yes; is it broken?”
Mother—“No, but he’s broken about everything else in the place with it.”—Answers, London.

NO PAPER NEXT WEEK

Due to the Easter holidays, there will be no issue of The Davidsonian next week. Since the paper is made up on Monday night and sent to the publishers the next day, there will not be sufficient time to assemble the copy and send it to press so as to come out on the appointed day. This issue concludes the regime of the present staff, and with the next issue, the paper will be taken over by the new staff as announced in another column of this paper. The next issue will be on April 19th.

Leave Your Orders for VICTROLAS, RECORDS, SCHOOL SUPPLIES, Easter Flowers, and Candies Now! Davidson Book & Stationery Co. Where Quality and Service ReignsSUPERIOR SODA SERVICE

MODERN PHILOSOPHY

Following is an excerpt of an article written by Prof. B. Blanshard, of Swarthmore College and circulated for the purpose of stimulating interest in scholarships.

Oxford offers greater opportunities for the study of philosophy than any other university in the world. There are several reasons for this fact. For one thing, philosophy holds the central place in the course which, by general consent, shows the Oxford tradition at its best, the course in Literae Humaniores or “greats.” This is really an intensive study of Greek and Latin civilization. To the Englishman who brings to its study a reading knowledge of the two languages, everything else is incidental to the mastery of ancient thought. He reads the Republic through in Greek, and tops it off with Aristotle’s Ethics; then with the intellectual muscle produced by this somewhat heavy gymnastic, he goes on to a rapid tour of moral philosophy and a strong-winded plunge into logic. This is the kind of work which in Oxford leads to a B.A., and the American who wants a typically Oxonian regimen is well advised to take it. But if it seems to bristle too thickly with classics, he has an excellent alternative before him.

Most Americans and many Englishmen have felt a little reluctant to spend so much time on the ancients, and in answer to the increasing demand, Oxford has established a “modern greats” which attempts for the modern period what the traditional course does for the ancient. This new course covers history, economics, and politics besides philosophy, but it is philosophy still that carries the greatest prestige; and at any rate, since these subjects are all philosophically studied, it is the men who are most at home in reflective analysis that finally lead the lists.

But the advanced philosophical student may want to work at his subject exclusively, and if so, he is free to do it. If he is only of moderate advancement, he will work for the degree of B.Litt.; if he can convince his tutors that he is about to burgeon philosophical blossoms and fruit, he will be allowed to “read for” a D.Phil. These degrees are both taken by thesis, with a public oral examination at the end.

Apart from the central place of philosophy in the tradition of Oxford, there are three other factors that make it philosophically pre-eminent. One is the method of teaching. As everyone knows who has tried, you can’t learn philosophy from lectures, from the process that Carlyle described as sitting like a pitcher and being pumped into. You learn to think as you learn to run, by trying and being coached; and that is the Oxford notion of teaching. You are given a tutor or supervisor for whom you write frequent papers, and you must discuss and defend these productions in the privacy of his room. Directly confronted with a practiced mind, you soon find your hidden failings of manner and matter coming painfully but most instructively to light.

Again, at Oxford philosophy is actually discussed. The place in term-time seethes with talk, some bad, but much of it good; and the power to thrust and parry is highly prized. The average English student, with knowledge perhaps incomparably better in hand, and his wits less scattered than ours, strikes one as having his knowledge more at command. He maintains his views with more readiness, adroitness, and resource. And the meetings, formal and informal, philosophical, political, and literary, at which the intellectual game is played, are without number.

Ten Men Initiated by Reporters’ Club

Ten neophytes became members of the Reporters’ Club when that organization initiated Friday night. The men to receive this honor were S. R. Coker, J. V. Middleton, C. A. Sisson, W. C. Ragin, S. H. Long, C. H. Dubose, P. R. Alderman, J. F. Preston, S. S. Wiley, and Dean Rusk. The new bids were required, as a prerequisite to initiation, to put on a public performance which they did in fine style, almost interrupting the progress of the baseball game with Elon, Thursday afternoon.

Retiring President W. H. Bailey presided at the initiation of the new men. After the program, election of officers for the coming year was in order. For president, Reid Graham and John Ely were nominated, Ely winning the vote. R. W. McDermid was elected vice-president of the club, and E. S. Heefner will be the secretary-treasurer for next year. The retiring officers are President W. H. Bailey, Vice-President John Ely, and Secretary-Treasurer J. R. Graham. After the elections, the club enjoyed a feed and social meeting.

SKILL

The twist of the wrist, the “throw” of the arm, the shifting of the weight—these are among the many little points which make the skill that you admire in the javelin thrower as he hurls the shaft two hundred feet or more. As on the track or the football field, in the gymnasium or on the water, so in industry progress is the result of fine improvements—a thousandth of an inch here—a minute variation in a curve there—slight changes foreseen by engineers and carried out by skilled workmen.

It is this attention to detail that is constantly improving General Electric apparatus and contributing to the electrical industry, which, though still young, is already a dominant force, increasing profit and promoting success in every walk of life. Whether you find this monogram on an electric refrigerator for the home or on a 200,000-horsepower turbine-generator in a power station, you can be sure that it stands for skilled engineering and high manufacturing quality.