September 27, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five CHEW UP THAT TIGER, WILD CAT GUILFORD QUAKERS FALL BEFORE CATS’ FIERCE ONSLAUGHT Davidson Men Show Good Attack The Quakers were well shaken up in their Saturday clash with Uncle Monk’s boys. Some few dopesters were rash enough to favor the Guilfordians, at least so they intimated before the game. However, the Cats, apparently angered at the way folks low-rated them, tore into their guests in typical Davidson fashion, mostly in the final half, and ripped them wide open. Some twenty-five hundred devotees of the game went away shaking their heads wonderingly, for, after reading Mr. Eddie Breitz for a week or so, they had fully expected to see a bunch of babbling babes take the field.

CAT TRAX AS THEY FOLLOW THE RED AND BLACK By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Many Substitutions for Home Eleven—Guilford Line Holds Wildcat Backs in Check During Initial Period

With the weather more suitable for baseball than football, the Davidson College Wildcats won their first game of the season from the Guilford Quakers, 27 to 0. Featuring the contest were several long runs by the Wildcat backs and the all-around work of Sam Black, acting captain for Davidson. Outstanding for the visitors was the work of their forward wall with Murphy at left tackle showing the way. Substitutions for Davidson were frequent, while Guilford used only four during the affair. Nine sophomores saw service for the Wildcats and gave promise of developing into valuable players before the season is over. The score was satisfying, since it has been eight years or more since a Wildcat team has put over more than thirty odd points in an opening game. As it was, Tex used nearly every warrior he had, and in the general muddle, the local heroes passed up several good opportunities to score again.

Davidson's first score came in the first period, when two plays netted a touchdown from the 34-yard line. A line plunge advanced the ball four yards and then Dick Flinn went off tackle for 30 yards and a touchdown. Brock place-kicked for the extra point. It was nip and tuck during the second period until the closing minutes of play, when Riggs McConnell recovered a fumble on Guilford’s 17-yard line. The half ended with the ball on the 1-yard line, fourth down and touchdown to go, the Wildcats having advanced the ball by a series of line plunges.

Davidson scored again in the third quarter after getting possession of the ball on Guilford’s 41-yard line. A pass, Black to McMillan, was the outstanding play of a drive down the field placing the ball on the 2-yard line. Black plunged the remaining distance for the second score of the game. Brock again place-kicked the extra point. Two more six-point counters were made in the last quarter. Flinn began a drive down the field from the 11-yard line, with a 42-yard end run. Captain Black and Goodykoontz alternated to place the ball on the Quaker’s one-yard line, Brohard plunging center to score. Brock failed to place-kick the extra point. On the next kickoff, McMillan returned Cheek’s kick 50 yards, McCall gained 15, Black added two, and McCall circled end for 15 yards and the final touchdown of the game. A pass, Black to McCall, made the score 27 to 0 in the Wildcats’ favor.

Lineup and summary:
Guilford Position Davidson
Brock Left End Buck
Murphy Left Tackle Baker
Hovious Left Guard Parker
Auman Center Mason
Beaman Right Guard Smith
Ragan Right Tackle T. McConnell
Marshall Right End David
Cheek Quarterback Flinn
Bunn Left Halfback McMillan
Chisholm Right Halfback Black
Fullback

Score by quarters:
Guilford 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson 7 0 7 13—27

G. O. L. D. J. E. W. E. L. R. Y.
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils

Once again the cry comes out for more track candidates. It’s hard to see why Davidson can’t turn out more than 30 men for preliminary training at least. Now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of their coach and prepare themselves to serve with their feet. A man never learned to run by parking.them on the radiator forever. Seal Stationery Pennants and Pillows Athletic Supplies Wildcat Belts

W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

"What's your real name?"
"Georgiana."
"What's your pet name?"
"Mother says I’m too young for that."—Ghost.

STRONG TEAMS FACE DAVIDSON

After the game with the Citadel on October 20, the fireworks will truly begin for Monk Younger's Wildcats. Not depreciating the prowess of teams to be played before this date, for there is not a weak spot on the schedule, the fact still remains that Davidson's chief interest lies in games with the other members of North Carolina’s Big Five. Contests in this group are carded to be played on almost successive dates, only the clash with V. M. I. breaking into the schedule of state games. Every single melee will find the Wildcats on their toes fighting hard for victory, and in every case, they will be pitted against tremendous odds.

The first scrap comes on October 27, when the Cats find themselves matched with Wake Forest at Charlotte. The Deacons are expected to be somewhat stronger than the eleven of last year which tied Davidson at 13 all. Coach Cofall, new mentor at the Baptist stronghold, with the aid of some promising men from last year's yearling outfit and plenty of old material, plans to send a team on the field that can give and take plenty.

In Gus Tebell’s Wolfpack, the Cats will encounter a foe which, in the opinion of many, will very nearly approach State’s great eleven of 1927. Although the redoubtable Jack McDowell has folded his tents and departed, Bob Warren and Chink Outen are still on hand to deal destruction to opposing lines, and practically all of the forward wall is back. This game comes off in Greensboro on November 10.

November 17 will witness another...

Scoring touchdowns—Flinn, Black, Brohard, McCall. Extra points—Brock (2) from placement. Pass—Black to McCall. First downs—Guilford, 2; Davidson, 13. Penalties—Guilford, 15 yards; Davidson, 20 yards. Substitutes for Guilford—Francis, McBane, Chandler, Newlin; for Davidson—Kell, R. McConnell, Archie, Goodykoontz, Harper, McCall, Mills, Fraley, Middleton, Coble, Covington, Peterson, Decamp. Officials—Bryce (Auburn), referee; Rawson (Georgia), umpire; Kirkpatrick (N. C. State), headlinesman.

DAVIDSON INVADES LAIR OF CLEMSON TIGER THIS WEEK

Second Test of Season Comes Saturday in South Carolina—Hard Game Expected

CLEMSON TEAM HEAVY

Monk’s Men Train Hard for First Meeting With Tigers in Two Years—Out to Win

Saturday, September 29, will see the Davidson Wildcat visit the Clemson Tiger’s den with predatory intentions. This is Davidson’s first game away and her first against a powerful opponent. Its outcome is expected to be laden with prophetic indications.

Only one wildcat is in the cage at the gym, so far. The animal, symbol of the “Wildcat Spirit,” is back again after spending the summer in Charlotte. The wildest of all the wildcats on the campus teems with all the pent-up fury that marked the onslaught of the Davidson eleven Saturday. This disposition is apparently caused by loneliness for some of its kind. But from the restricted manner in which an interview could be conducted, it was learned that Felix was glad to be back in its old haunts and felt at home among the hundreds of other wildcats on the Davidson campus.

Indications are, however, that eleven husky Tigers are going to have decided ideas about the possession of the bone of victory. Clemson's season this year is the most brilliant in five years. The entire eleven are seeing their second or third year of varsity service. The team’s average weight is 182 pounds.

Last Saturday, this herd of Cyclops, led by Captain Pressly, tramped Newberry’s scrappy aggregation into the dust and piled up a score of 30-0 with apparent ease. State championship Home-Coming Day for Davidson, and at this time the University of North Carolina will be met in the annual game. Alumni of the Chapel Hill school are expecting great things from “Chunk” Collins and his much-discussed Notre Dame system. According to reports from Chapel Hill, their outfit will make a strong bid for state honors this year. By the middle of November, when they hit Davidson, the Tar Heels should have a smoothly working and powerful grid machine. This is the verdict of all who saw the slaughter.

The last member of the Big Five which Monk's proteges will engage is Jimmy DeHart's Blue Devils from Duke University. Coach DeHart, at present, finds that most of his trouble is not because of a lack of material, but because of an inability to choose from a superfluity of material his first string eleven. As a nucleus, Duke will have the ever-valuable Sam Buie and Jan Jankoskie, which fact alone assures that team of a powerful attack.

OLD GOLD bats 1000% as Hornsby takes the Blindfold cigarette test

"They say ‘there’s not a cough in a carload’ of OLD GOLDS. But I can tell you every cool mouthful. For no other cigarette, of the four leading brands in the blindfold test, could compare with OLD GOLDS for pure pleasure to taste, tongue, and throat."—Rogers Hornsby

Rogers Hornsby... capable manager of the Boston Braves... captain of the 1927 New York Giants... manager of the 1926 St. Louis Cardinals, who won the World’s Series. Mr. Hornsby was asked to smoke each of the four leading brands, clearing his taste with coffee between smokes. Only one question was asked: "Which one do you like best?"

What gives OLD GOLD this winning charm? Here is the answer, in three words...heart-leaf tobacco. No coarse, heavy top-leaves of the tobacco plant...for they irritate the throat. No withered ground-leaves...for they are lacking in aroma. Only the cool and fragrant heart-leaves... golden ripe...can give OLD GOLDS their honey-like smoothness. That’s why you can tell them in the dark.

© P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760
Made from the heart-leaves of the tobacco plant
SMOOTHER AND BETTER—“NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD”