THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1928

Voice from Fairway: C’mon, Paul, I suppose you're going to work that snake-killing alibi again. —Stanford Chaparral.

First Woman: You know, we have the worst time in our family. Every watch reads differently.
Second Same: You have quite a time of it, don’t you? On second thought, ours is always the same. —Denison
Flamingo.

"I'll have you know there’s blue blood in my veins.”
“I hope you are taking something for it.” —Dartmouth Jack o’ Lantern.

Our idea of the best business man in the world is the undertaker who, just before he died, embalmed himself
in order to take the business away from his competitor. —Pennsylvania Punch Bowl.

Mrs. McGuire: What’s your old man?
Mrs. McGinty: A banker.
Mrs. McGuire: A what?
Mrs. McGinty: Sure, he banks up ditches. —Cornell Widow.

“I don’t like the looks of that guy over there.” And what is “Loves YOUNG’S DREAM” —PEANUT PARCHER

Bertie’s school report had just come in. It wasn’t very good.
“I’m losing patience with you!” exclaimed his father. “How is it that young Jones is always at the top of
the class, while you are at the bottom?”
The boy looked at his father reproachfully. “You forget, Dad,” he said kindly, “that Jones has awfully clever parents.” —Tawney
Kat.

"No, sir, never took a drink in my life—hic!”
“But you’re obviously—”
“Never took a drink—hic—I always paid for ’em!” —N. Y. Medley.

Our girl is so dumb she thinks formaldehyde is a new kind of leather. —Wash. Cougar’s Paw.

Street Sweeper (jumping from forty-story building): Dis’ll be a swell joke on me buddies!

ACCOMMODATING
“Have you ever been sentenced to imprisonment?” asked the judge sympathetically.
“Oh, no. Never!” cried the prisoner, breaking down into tears.
“There, there,” consoled the judge. “Don’t cry. You're going to be, right now.” —Ghost.

THESE MANLY COLLEGIATES
He: The pater has been pretty hard on me lately.
She: I shouldn’t say so, looking at the new roadster he just gave you.
He: Oh, that’s different; I had to go two weeks without biting my fingernails. —Pup.

An English Sparrow Visits Mayor Thompson —Ohio State Sun Dial.

Sandy: What’s the reason for raising the price of gasoline?

GAS AND LIGHT TOO
Oh, well, here’s another about Mrs. Newlywed: A young bride went down to the telephone company to see about having
a telephone installed in her bungalow. She asked what the rates were, and after being told, insisted that they ought
to be lower for her. Upon being refused, she asked to see the manager, and when he said, “But, madam,
why should we give you a special rate?” she replied innocently, “Oh, but we buy all our telephones from your
company.” —U. of S. Calif. Wampus.

“I say, Duke, what is the unusual quality fellows see in her?”
“I think it’s her effeminacy, Patrick.” —Notre Dame Juggler

Uncle Holtzman says, “I never did trust these circus freaks. Just yestiddy I...seen in a paper the headline: ‘Three Armed
Men Hold up Drug Store.’” —Wisconsin Octopus.

“only his glasses.”

1928 Track Season Has Bright Outlook

With the first meet of the 1928 track season only two weeks off, elimination time trials will be held for
candidates the latter part of this week. At the present time, there are 70 men out. This is only a
small number, according to Coach Tilson, considering the number of men who are not participating in any kind of sports
at this time, and anyone who has any ability in running, weights, and especially the broad and high jumps, is
urged to come out.

The outlook for the team this year with Captain John Currie back, leading in the 100 and the 220 yard
dashes, is fairly bright. The field events have an especially bright prospect for a good showing. Besides Captain Currie, the
men showing up best in the 220 are Kell and Flynn, both from last year’s squad. In the 440, Kell,
Brohard, Johnnie Melton, and Buck Jennings seem to be the most favored candidates among the upperclassmen. In the hurdles, Creech,
Craig Frye, Melton, Brown, and Whittle are the mainstays. The weights, shot put, and discus will be held by Leftwich,
Regen, Carson, and King.

The schedule for this year, as it now stands, includes six meets, two of which are to be held here.
The track schedule is:

March 31—State at Davidson.
April 4—Duke at Duke.
April 14—Tech Relays, Ga. Tech.
April 21—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
April 28—University of S. C. at Davidson.
May 4, 5—State Meet at Greensboro.

RE-EXAMS

In a previous issue of The Davidsonian, a mistake was made in the re-examinations schedule. The re-examinations will take place
on Thursday, April 5th, at 2:30 p.m. All students, excepting the Seniors, will be allowed only one re-examination. Only by
special permission from the dean can a student take more than one re-exam. Those who desire to take the examinations
must pay a fee of $2.50 and make arrangements with Mr. Hengeveld and the professor in whose course they failed;
this must be done as soon as possible.

Gasoline Station Gus: Why get mad at me? I never go to church because I haven't got a car.

The Boss: See here, young lady, since there are so many crooks, should that bother you?

“Did you ever hear Marion Talley?”

“No, you see I never play bridge.”

(Only a few years back, you'll remember, it was 7 billion)

Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

SUCH A 300% INCREASE IN POPULARITY MUST BE DESERVED!

THEY SATISFY and yet THEY'RE MILD
