Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN November 8, 1928

ALUMNI

Col. A. L. Gaston, ’96 of Chester, S. C. To Speak Here Home-Coming Day
He Has Accepted Invitation Extended Him by Davidson Alumni Council

IS EMINENT JURIST
Col. Gaston Frequently Invited to Make Addresses—Other Home-Coming Plans Near Completion

Col. A. L. Gaston, '96, of Chester, S. C., has accepted the invitation extended him by the Davidson College Alumni
Council to speak here on Homecoming Day, November 17. Col. Gaston will address the alumni, students, and friends of the
college at the stadium after the R. O. T. C. battalion stages a parade on Sprunt Field.

The principal speaker for Homecoming has attained quite a reputation as a lawyer and is frequently asked to address gatherings
of all kinds in South Carolina. Since he obtained his bachelor of law degree after graduating from Davidson, he has
steadily advanced in his profession and ranks high in the confidence and esteem of the people of South Carolina, which
received expression when they elected him to the House of Representatives of that state.

Most of the arrangements for the big celebration at Davidson on November 17 have been completed, though many minor details
must be worked out before that time. An invitation, accompanied by a miniature alumni newspaper and a blank for ticket
reservations, was mailed to Davidson alumni everywhere by the alumni secretary this week.

The program for the day will be similar to the ones in recent years, beginning with an R. O. T.
C. parade, followed by exercises at the stadium, the alumni luncheon in the gymnasium, the football game with Carolina, and
concluding with a stunt night performance in Shearer Hall. Preliminary to this is a radio broadcasting program which is to
be given over WBT, Charlotte, on Tuesday night, November 13, 8 to 8:30 o'clock.

As the time for the annual return of alumni approaches, officials of the alumni association are becoming more confident that
a record number of alumni will pay the college a visit. A greater number of classes and states will be
represented than heretofore. It is definitely known that alumni will be here from Pennsylvania, Oklahoma, Ohio, West Virginia, Maryland, Virginia,
South Carolina, Florida, Georgia, and North Carolina. Reservation for tickets early next week will reveal the approximate number who expect
to return.

COMPETITIVE SYSTEM
(Continued from page 1)

The department is very anxious to secure the students’ interest so that it may be a real benefit to the
battalion. This competition will start in the parade Wednesday, November 7. Last year a great deal of interest was derived;
the people from town viewing the parade offered their opinions as to what platoon had the best line.

Y. M. C. A. VESPERS
(Continued from page 1)

The importance and ultimate reality of spiritual values. Yet a faith of conviction and obedience is not enough without an
appreciation of the beauty found in the life of Jesus and in His teachings. Beauty, not in the ordinary sense
as applied to flowers and poetry, but in the deepest meaning, is as important as knowledge, for no man would
or could worship Jesus if it were not for the beauty of His soul. It is this beauty that stirs
the heart of man and prompts him to great deeds. These human elements of intelligence, vigor, and love of beauty
plus the divine aid of the presence of Jesus will give us a faith whose fruits can be tested by
the demands of life and not be found wanting.

Unless Someone Else Buys It
“She goes to all the games, I furnish all the change.”

University of Missouri—The football season has brought more than the familiar thud of the pigskin to the campus of the
University of Missouri this fall. It has brought a verbal battle between the school’s co-eds and Chester L. Brewer, director
of athletics.

ALUMNI MEETINGS IN THREE CITIES
Associations in Asheville, Greensboro, and New York to Meet—First One is Tonight

Beginning tonight with a meeting of the Western North Carolina Alumni Association of Davidson College, a series of three alumni
meetings over a period of six days will start. Associations located in Asheville, Greensboro, and New York are scheduled for
semi-annual gatherings.

Davidson alumni in Asheville, Brevard, Hendersonville, Black Mountain, Swannanoa, Canton, Waynesville, and Weaverville have been notified of the Asheville meeting
tonight, which is to be held at the Vanderbilt Hotel at 7 o'clock. Officials of that association have announced that
a short musical program has been arranged, as well as talks by one of the prominent Asheville alumni and the
alumni secretary.

The Greensboro meeting tomorrow night will include alumni in that city and High Point, which approximates 75 men. This meeting
is to be held at the King Cotton Hotel in Greensboro at 7:30. Arrangements are being made for one of
the faculty members to accompany the alumni secretary to this meeting.

Announcement has been received here of the fall meeting of the New York Alumni Association, to be held Tuesday night,
November 13, at the Fraternity Club, 38th St. and Madison at 8:15 p. m. This organization includes alumni in the
metropolis, Brooklyn, and several New Jersey cities near New York.

Coach Is Looking for Permanent Bachelors
“Doc” Stewart of the School of Mines, branch of the University of Texas, built a good team last year, but
it had one weakness, its romantic heart. Cupid made touchdown after touchdown. Six of Doc’s players have discarded moleskins and
pigskins. A seventh has married, but may return to the gridiron anyway. Stewart is looking for an entire team for
the season of 1928.

Even before the season started last year, Blain McNutt, bidding for the backfield, married Laura Pearcy, of El Paso. Then
Halfback Lee Cherry Smith, star broken field runner, heard the signal for the eternal knot formation and was thrown for
a loss by Martha Pearcy, McNutt’s sister-in-law. Meanwhile, Billy Clark, tackle, got his signals crossed and rushed away to marry
Eleanor Gosset, of Austin. That ended the first half.

Then, in April, Felix Ducharme, halfback, and Alice Rodehaver, of El Paso, and Buster Smith, lineman, and Lulene Crowder, also
of El Paso, figured in a double pass that gained valuable yardage for Cupid. Bill Bulger, guard and tackle, married
Lola Mae Crowder, of Las Cruces, in June. Then Bill Powell, end, and Freda Gibson, of Monahans, were married in
the middle of the summer. Now “Doc” says that the next team he whips into shape will be composed entirely
of bachelors who want to stay that way.of admission. And all over the Co-eds, according to Brewer, show far less
interest in the football games than did their sisters of 10 years ago—unless the men offer to take them. And
as a result, he has pointed out, salesmen of athletic ticket coupons are laughed at when approaching sorority groups. “They’ve
lost their institutional spirit,” he declares. “They're grafters.” All this has brought stinging retorts from the co-ed population of Columbia.
“Nothing of the sort,” they return. “False,” says Miss Lois Jacquin, secretary-treasurer of the student government association, in her reply
to Brewer’s charge that the co-eds fail to buy tickets. She cites her own sorority as an example, asserting that
its members attend the football games in a body. “Perhaps girls have degenerated into a bunch of grafters, but why
blame the girls? The boys take the initiative—why not let them pay the bill?”

Alumni Personals

Rev. Plummer Smith, '07, missionary to Africa, has returned to the United States and will visit his father, Rev. Newton
Smith, at The Hollow, Va., before going to the home of his wife’s father in Belleview, Mo., in December. Rev.
Walter H. Goodman, '02, has begun a new pastorate at Kannapolis, N.C., at the church left vacant by the death
of John Thomas McEachin, '90, who died in Chester, S.C., August 17, 1928. Rev. Mr. Goodman has already begun his
work at Kannapolis. W. E. Wilkinson, '28, has been pledged to the Alpha Kappa Kappa medical fraternity at the University
of North Carolina. T. T. Jones, '28, has been pledged to the same fraternity at Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn. Rev.
Alexander Sprunt, D.D., '75, of Charleston, S.C., today is celebrating his fiftieth anniversary of his ordination to the ministry. In
March, 1926, Dr. Sprunt celebrated his twenty-fifth anniversary as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charleston, S.C. Rev. N.
G. Stevens, '08, of Huntsville, Ala., has been elected moderator of the Presbytery of North Alabama, and Rev. F. H.
Wardlaw, '95, of Spartanburg, S.C., has been chosen temporary clerk of the Presbytery of Enoree. E. T. McKeithen, '06, has
been appointed by Gov. A. W. McLean to the Board of Managers of the Samarcand Manor. He succeeded the late
Dr. A. A. McGeachy, '01, of Charlotte. Rev. M. J. Murray, '24, and Mrs. Murray, of Wilmington, announce the birth
of a son, Marion Julian, Jr., on October 26. Mr. Zack Varnedoe, '27, and Mrs. Varnedoe, of Thomasville, Ga., announce
the birth of a son, Zack, Jr., October 28. Information has been received of the death of James H. Anderson,
'71, who died on June 6, 1923, at Moore, S.C. Friends will regret to learn of the death of the
wife of Rev. J. N. H. Summerell, D.D., '73, at New Bern, N.C., on November 1st. She was also the
mother of J. J. Summerell, '10, of Greenville, N.C.

Alabama or W. & L.

University of Alabama—Dr. George H. Denny, president of the University of Alabama, has under consideration an offer of the presidency
of Washington and Lee University. He received the offer after the trustees accepted the resignation of Dr. Henry Louis Smith,
effective July 1, 1929. Dr. Denny came to the University of Alabama from Washington and Lee, where he was president
from 1902 until 1912.

Just Plain Lucky

First Coster—“Well, poor old Bill’s gone!”
Second Coster (scornfully)—“Poor, indeed! Luckiest bloke in the market. Couldn’t touch nuffink without it turned to money. Insured ’is ’ouse—burned
in a month. Insured ’isself again’ accidents—broke ’is arm first week. Joined the burial society last Friday, and now 'e’s
’opped it. I calls it luck!"—Ex.

Homecoming Day Program

The following, in brief, is the tentative Homecoming Day Program for November 17, which has been adopted by the Davidson
College Alumni Council:
11:15 a.m., R.O.T.C. Parade on Sprunt Field.
11:45 a.m., Exercises at Stadium. Col. A. L. Gaston, '96, of Chester, S.C., principal speaker.
1:00 p.m., Alumni Luncheon at gymnasium.
2:30 p.m., Carolina vs. Davidson in football, Richardson Field.
8:00 p.m., Stunt Night in Shearer Hall.

New Addresses

Dr. W. L. Pomeroy, '25, Grady Hospital, Atlanta, Ga.
E. L. Hollingsworth, '23, 114 S. Candler St., Decatur, Ga.
Dr. N. S. Stirewalt, '05, E. Lexington Ave., High Point, N.C.
C. G. Davis, '27, 116 Brown Hall, Princeton Seminary, Princeton, N.J.
Rev. W. H. Sharpe, '23, Roseland, La.
Rev. W. H. Goodman, '02, Kannapolis, N.C.
Rev. Plumer Smith, '07, care Rev. Newton Smith, The Hollow, Va.
H. H. Roseberry, '26, 1210 St. Paul's St., Baltimore, Md.
P. M. Patterson, '25, Box 555, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.

EN AND PHI MEET (Continued from page 1)

ules of the organizations can be rearranged. Next week, however, the new schedule will become effective.

Stationery printed and embossed. Best Quality and Prices. ANY TYPE OF PRINTING. Aubrey Brown. Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co., Charlotte, N.C.

First Cigarette
Second Cigarette
Third Cigarette
Fourth Cigarette

its soothing gentleness acting in such First National pictures and “Out of the Ruins.”

RICHARD BARTHELMESS... endeared to movie-goers the world over for his superb “The Patent Leather Kid,” “The Noose”

GOLD

THE CAST

OLD GOLD

“Making a blindfold test is like conducting a movie tryout. But in this competition I found my star ‘right off
the reel.’ I named OLD GOLD for the lead part the moment I tasted its thrilling flavor and its soothing
gentleness to the tongue and throat.”

© P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

Made from the heart-leaves of the tobacco plant

MR. BARTHELMESS was asked to smoke each of the four leading brands, clearing his taste with coffee between smokes. Only
one question was asked: “Which one do you like best?” Why you ask, pick them. Three types of leaves grow
on the tobacco plant... coarse top-leaves, irritating to the throat... withered ground-leaves, without taste or aroma... and the heart-leaves, rich
in cool and fragrant smoking qualities. Only the heart-leaves are used in OLD GOLDs.

SMOOTHER AND BETTER—“NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD”
