6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1928

PRITCHETT AND GRADY OFF ON DEBATE TOUR

Hampden-Sidney and Universities of Washington and Pittsburgh Opponents

R. C. Grady and W. K. Pritchett left Davidson Monday on a three-debate schedule that will take them a week
to fulfill. Grady and Pritchett debated against Hampden-Sidney Tuesday night and on Wednesday night they debated against the George Washington
University team in Washington, D.C. Tonight the two will represent Davidson against the University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In the debates
with Hampden-Sidney and George Washington University, the team upheld the negative side of the query, and tonight will uphold the
affirmative.

The question debated at Hampden-Sidney was, "Resolved, That the United States Cease to Protect by Armed Force American Capital Invested
in Foreign Countries." The query at George Washington University and University of Pittsburgh is the same, but with the addition
of the phrase "Except After Formal Declaration of War" added onto it. The team, after the debate with the University
of Pittsburgh, will leave there in time to return to Davidson by Saturday.

Next Monday, following the return of Pritchett and Grady, Tyree Dillard and Henry Powell will also leave on a week’s
trip; this time the Davidson team will go to the south and debate against teams of southern universities. Dillard and
Powell will leave Davidson Monday morning and on Tuesday night will meet the University of Florida at Gainesville, Fla. After
the Florida debate, the team will debate with the University of the South, at Sewanee, Tenn., on Thursday night. Friday,
a debate will be staged at Emory University. The Davidson team will uphold the affirmative side of the query in
all of the debates.

According to Henry Powell, the Forensic Council tried to get a debate with Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, but due to the
lateness of the attempt, a satisfactory date could not be arranged. However, it is hoped that the Council will be
able to arrange a debate with R.M.C.W. next year, the debate to be held at Davidson. On Friday night of
the next week, the final debate of the year will be held.

---

EN prefer Tate-Brown shirts because they are faultlessly fashioned; comfortable, handsome, long-wearing; and not expensive, either. We have them here,
in all styles, in a host of attractive patterns, sizes, and sleeve-lengths. Thousands of discriminating men enjoy wearing them—you will
too!

Tate-Brown Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

---

The Commercial National Bank

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

Founded 1874

4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Government. Make us your Executor. Capital,
surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

---

The ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA

All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.

The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAYheld here. The visiting team will be from Rutgers University. The question for debate will be the
same as has been used in all the debates this year. W. L. Dumas and R. M. Christian will uphold
the affirmative side for Davidson. The debate was originally scheduled to be held in Statesville, but due to several factors
it was decided to hold it at Davidson. No definite arrangements have been made for the fresh debates. At present,
the only certain thing is that a debate will be held with Carolina, with possibly Duke to make it a
triangular debate. The debate will come sometime after Easter. The tryouts were to be held last night, but due to
the feature of “Athletic Night” were postponed to some time in the future.

Prominent Alumnus Ill At Gastonia Hospital

S. A. Robinson, '99, Removed to Hospital in Dangerous Condition, Say Reports

News of the serious illness of Mr. S. A. Robinson, ’99, loyal Davidson alumnus, and for many years secretary of
the Board of Trustees, brings grief to the hearts of students, faculty, and alumni, who know Mr. Robinson as one
of the best known and most useful alumni of the college. Suffering from some form of toxic poisoning, Mr. Robinson,
prominent cotton mill executive of Gastonia and connected in an official capacity with a number of manufactories, was last week
transferred from his home to the City Hospital of Gastonia, where his condition has been reported as serious. Mr. Robinson
is under the care and observation of Dr. L. N. Glenn, his family physician, and Dr. Lineback, of Charlotte. Mr.
Robinson, a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, as well as a number of civic clubs, is
one of the most prominent business men in Gaston County. He has been a leader in the progress of his
city, and a factor in the growth and development of Davidson College during his many years as a trustee of
the institution. His condition will be watched with anxiety by his many friends among Davidson alumni, who are wishing him
a speedy and complete recovery.

A communication from a member of the Junior-Senior Banquet Committee of N. C. C. W. requests that Davidson students be
informed that flowers will not be required for the Junior-Senior Banquet which is to be given at an early date.

White Drug Co. SERVES THE CAMPUS

1928, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.

The National Joy Smoke is no mere catch-phrase. You can prove it. Prince Albert is the Nation’s largest-selling brand of
pipe-tobacco. It brings joy to more smokers than any other brand. Q.E.D.! Your first fragrant whiff will set your mouth
a-watering. And your first taste of good old P.A. in a pipe will satisfy your pipe-hunger as nothing else ever
has. Cool as the first period. Welcome as the last. Mellow and mild and long-burning, right to the bottom of
the bowl. Try P.A., Fellows, on my say-so.

PRINCE ALBERT — the national joy smoke!

A snappy roadster, a wonderful girl, and a pipeful of good old P.A.!
