THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1928

WILDCAT TRACKS
Following Davidson’s “MEN OF MIGHT” Along the Athletic Trail
By Zeb Long, Jr.

The Tech relays have come and gone, and with them Davidson’s greatest opportunity for recognition in Southern track circles. It is the general belief that the wet track held up John Currie in his quest for new laurels. Currie is no mud-horse; that was shown at these same Tech relays last spring. Give Currie a dry day and a fast track, and this department is certain that he can whip any runner in the South, possibly in the East. He is first pick for the 100, 220, and 440-yard dashes in the coming state meet at Greensboro.

Heath Whittle proved to be Davidson’s star. This Sophomore took second place in the 220 low hurdles, a Detroit runner finishing first. This would seem to indicate that Whittle will soon be in a class by himself in this neck of the woods, at least. A little more form on his jumps, and it will be a beautiful sight to see him getting over the barriers.

Davidson’s golf team accomplished great things this week. On their state trip, they lost to Carolina, it is true, but the Duke Blue Devils proved no match for the local boys and dropped their encounter. Second place in the state meet is very good when you consider that golfing at Davidson is more or less of an individual sport; no coach or regular attention having been given to the men who play the game. Hats off to Boyce Martin, who received the prize cup for the lowest score in the meet. Look out, Bobby Jones!

Davidson Courtmen Win Four Straight Matches
Southern Trip Results in Brilliant Victories for Wildcats

The Davidson College netmen invaded five schools in twice as many days and returned to the campus last Thursday with a record of four straight victories and no defeats. Playing brilliant tennis in every match, the Wildcat Racketeers found little opposition in their foes with the exception of Georgia Tech, who required an extra match to be defeated. Wofford, Furman, Georgia Tech, and Mercer met defeat at the hands of the Wildcats, the match with the University of S. C. being rained out.

The team left school on Monday morning, playing the first match of the trip on Monday afternoon with the Wofford netmen, whom they defeated 6-0 in brilliant style. The best match was between Roddey and Shuler, which the former won 8-4, 6-8, 7-5. This was the only match that went three sets. Carr gave his home city a beautiful exhibition when in the first set, after losing four games, he staged a comeback to win the next six games.

On Wednesday afternoon, the Furman courtmen were met on the school courts, only to be defeated by the Wildcats by a score of 5-1. Leaving the Furman and Wofford victories behind, the team next took on the strong Georgia Tech team, which proved to be real opposition. The matches were played on the East Lake Country Club courts, which were wet and a bit slow. Roddey and Halverstadt won their singles, but Carr and Johnson were defeated. In the doubles, Roddey and Carr won, but Halverstadt and Johnson lost, which left the match a tie. According to the Southern Conference ruling, Roddey and Carr played their doubles over again and won 6-4, 6-4, which gave Davidson the match with a score of 4-3.

On Monday, the return trip was preceded with a match with Mercer College, at Macon, Ga. Playing between intervals of showers of rain, the Davidsonians won every match until Lewis and McMillan, of Mercer, defeated Halverstadt and Johnson in the second round of the doubles. In this match, the second set required 18 games before the Wildcats were defeated. A match was scheduled with the University of S. C. on Wednesday, but was rained out, leaving the Davidson men free to return to the campus late that night.

Fast Contest Marred by Erratic Play of Davidson

The University of North Carolina Tar Heels once again held to their winning ways over the Wildcats in the annual Easter Monday clash at Salisbury. The slants and hooks of a youngster named Ball proved a little too much for the bats of Coach Monk’s men, and they went down, only after a gallant stand, by the count of 3 to 0. John McInnis twirled on nearly equal terms with the Carolina ace, and had his mates given him the support he deserved, the outcome might have been very different. An infield blow-up in the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate. With tight work by the ’Cats at this time, the Tar Heels would not have scored. Several times Davidson might have scored had the batter been able to deliver even a sacrifice hit, but the second frame proved disastrous to the Red and Black cause, and before the ’Cats could take the situation in hand, three runners had crossed the plate.Men and supporters. They signalize the first time that the second leading Presbyterian institution of the South has sent its teams to Davidson. Last year the Petrels took two games from the 'Cats in Atlanta, but this year will see a different story. It is a seemingly inevitable double play that always broke up the locals' chance. Hal Johnson connected once for a beautiful double against the rightfield fence but died on the second sack. Bennie MacAuley and Pitcher McInnis secured the two remaining bingles for Davidson. For Carolina, Satterfield led the hitting with two. Charlie Harrison put up a nice game around the keystone corner, while "Tuck" McConnell snagged a hard chance in the outer gardens. The game outside of that fatal second inning was one of the fastest collegiate games seen in the state in recent years. Both teams played jam-up ball from then on until the end of the game. The hurlers were in mid-season form and the ball hawks of each nine seemed to have the leather spotted. 

Box score and summary:

DAVIDSON
AB R H PO A E
Harrison, 2b ----------- 3 0 0 2 3 0
Kugler, ss ------------- 3 0 1 2 1 1
Ratchford, lf ---------- 4 0 0 1 0 0
Johnson, cf ------------ 4 0 1 3 0 0
McInnis, p ------------- 4 0 1 0 0 0
Crawford, 1b ---------- 3 0 0 9 1 1
Littlejohn, 3b ---------- 3 0 0 1 2 0
McAulay, c ------------ 3 0 1 4 1 0
McConnell, rf ---------- 3 0 0 2 0 0
Totals ---------------- 30 0 4 24 8 2

CAROLINA
AB R H PO A E
Satterfield, ss --------- 4 1 1 0 4 0
Burt, 2b --------------- 2 0 1 1 6 0
Barnhardt, lf ---------- 3 0 0 1 0 0
Mackie, 1b ------------- 4 0 0 16 0 0
Jessup, rf -------------- 4 0 2 1 0 0
Magner, 3b ------------- 3 1 1 0 0 0
Cox, cf ---------------- 3 1 3 0 0 0
Maus, c ---------------- 2 0 0 3 1 0
Ball, p ----------------- 3 0 0 1 4 0
Totals ----------------- 29 3 7 27 14 1

Score by innings: 
R
Davidson 000 000 000—0
Carolina 030 000 000—3

Summary: Two-base hits: Johnson; sacrifices: Barnhardt, Maus; double plays: Satterfield to Burt to Mackie; struck out: by McInnis 4, Ball 3; base on balls: off McInnis 2, Ball 2; left on base: Davidson 4, Carolina 6; passed balls: by McAulay 1, Maus 1; umpire: Brandon.

Batting Averages
Name At Bat Hits Pct.
McGeachy 1 1 1.000
Doc Kugler 5 2 .400
Johnson 38 13 .342
McConnell 27 9 .333
Dulin 24 7 .292
Harrison 29 8 .276
Ratchford 35 9 .257
Littlejohn 16 4 .250
J. Kugler 36 9 .250
Henderson 4 1 .250
Crawford 34 8 .235
McInnis 30 5 .167

Tar Heels Defeat Cats in Annual Easter Game; Bad Weather Slows Up Events in Tech Relay

Whittle Places Second in 220 Yard Low Hurdles

Davidson’s chief hope, the sprinting ability of Captain John Currie, failed to materialize in the Georgia Tech relays, and Heath Whittle was the only wearer of the Red and Black to gain a place. Whittle, outdoing his previous efforts, took second place in the 220 low hurdles. An entrant from the University of Detroit came in first. The relay team, composed of Currie, Flinn, Whittle, and Kell, finished fourth among all the relay teams. Inches of mud covered the Georgia track, making it especially hard on the sprinters. Currie won his trial heat in the 100-yard dash, coming in ahead of Hamm, the Tech flash. In the finals, Cummings, of Virginia; Elder, of Notre Dame; Hamm, of Georgia Tech; and Currie, of Davidson, finished in the order named. All four men finished within a few feet of each other. A majority of the places were won by University of Indiana men, though the South came in for its share of points. The rainy weather had more than a little to do with the slow time in most of the events. Probably the feature of the meet came when Graydon, a high school boy from Little Rock, Ark., hurled the javelin a distance of 205 1-4 feet, to break the Southern record.

NO REPORT (Continued from page 1)

on the drill field and the calisthenics drill. The march of the battalion in review was also good, this feature being especially well received by the large numbers of Davidson friends who were assembled to watch the inspection activities. Colonel Merriam subjected the battalion to the inspection usually given to troops of the Regular Army. The strain of such close scrutiny resulted in a few minor errors due to stage-fright and nervousness, but otherwise, the whole inspection was carried through very smoothly. After the morning’s drill, the visiting officers were entertained at the Pi Kappa Alpha house by the Davidsonian unit of Scabbard and Blade honorary military fraternity. This show of cordial hospitality was highly appreciated by the visiting officers. With about twenty guests present, Colonel Merriam was entertained at a dinner at the hotel. Following this event, Captain Daugherity received the two officers in his home, whereupon numbers of the Davidson people took advantage of the informal open house invitation to meet them. Colonel Merriam and Major McCaughey left Davidson Thursday for Presbyterian College of Clinton, S.C., where they will make a similar inspection to that made at Davidson. When their tour is completed, they will return to their headquarters of the Fourth Corps Area in Atlanta, and submit official reports on each school visited.

SCABBARD AND BLADE (Continued from page 1)

men were formally pledged at the afternoon drill on Wednesday. The following men are already members of Scabbard and Blade: H. B. Arbuckle, Jr., W. B. Bradford, Julian Lake, M. C. O'Neal, C. C. Trabue, P. J. Garrison, J. M. Akers, R. S. Link, R. S. Laurance, J. M. Gudger, and P. W. Walton.

NEW LIBRARY BOOKS
Oxford of Today—Crosby, Aydelotte, and Valentine.
Theater Advancing—Craig.
Italy From End to End—Allen.
Aspects of Modern Drama—Chandler.
In Praise of France—Gwynn.
The Life of James B. Duke—Jenkins.
Life—Selected.
Emission of Ultraviolet Rays—Ellis and Wells.
Varina Howell, Wife of Jefferson Davis—Rowland.
History of Music—Pratt.
Instrumental Music—Kelley.
From Song to Symphony—Mason.
What We Hear in Music—Faulkner.
The Victrola Book of the Opera.
Life of Edward MacDowell—Porte.

Wildcat Track Men Lose to Duke Team

Coming out in front to annex a healthy lead in the later stages, the Duke University Blue Devil team defeated the Davidson cinder experts here by a score of 78 2-3 to 47 1-3. John Currie, nationally known dash star, stepped off the hundred in 9 and 9-10 seconds to lead the men to the tape. Currie also won the 220 and 440 to amass an individual score of 15 points and lead the field. Brummitt, Duke star, set new school records in both the shot put and the discus. In the former event, Brummitt pushed the shot 42 feet 2 1-4 inches, and later in the afternoon hurled the discus 115 feet 9 inches. He was second to Currie in individual scoring. Tuttle, Duke, also set a new record in the two-mile run, when he broke the tape in 9:57.2.

Summary (Running Events):
100 yard dash—Currie, Davidson, first; Bruton, Duke, second; Whittle, Davidson, third. Time, 9.9 seconds.
Mile run—Woodward, Duke, first; Ashworth, Duke, second; Ely, Davidson, third. Time, 4 minutes 16.8 seconds.
120 yard high hurdles—Whittle, Davidson, first; Brown, Davidson, second; Baum, Duke, third. Time, 16.8 seconds.
440 yard run—Currie, Davidson, first; Kell, Davidson, second; Baum, Duke, third. Time, 52.2.
220 yard dash—Currie, Davidson, first; Bruton, Duke, second; Flynn, Davidson, third. Time, 23.6.
Two-mile run—Tuttle, Duke, first; Winecoff, Duke, second; Ashworth, Duke, third. Time, 9:57.2 (new record).
220 yard low hurdles—Whittle, Davidson, first; Erwin, Duke, second; Brown, Davidson, third. Time, 26.2.
880 yard run—Doxey, Duke, first; Candler, Duke, second; Goldwin, Duke, third. Time, 2:2.4.

Field Events:
Shot put—Brummitt, Duke, first; Leftwich, Davidson, second; Summerrow, Duke, third. Distance, 42 feet 2 1-4 inches (new school record).
High jump—Futrelle and Roberts, both of Duke, tied for first place; Gardner and Dumas, of Davidson, tied for third place. Height, 5 feet 9 inches.
Pole vault—Reed, Duke, first; Finley, Duke, second; Lyons, Duke, and Smith, of Davidson, tied for second. Height, 10 feet 9 inches.
Discus—Brummitt, Duke, first; Leftwich, Davidson, second; Wray, Duke, third. Distance, 115 feet, 9 inches (new school record).
Broad jump—Futrelle, Duke, first; Bachary, Duke, second; Gardner, Davidson, third. Distance, 20 feet 9 inches.
Javelin—Bennett, Duke, first; Brown, Davidson, second; Hunter, Duke, third. Distance, 164 feet.

Timers: Card (Trinity) and Burke (Illinois).
Judges: Childs (Virginia), Aldridge (Trinity), and Landon (Princeton).

JEVER

Ever sit around and scratch your head,
Then get up and walk around the chair,
Then, sit down and try thinking
And all at once it came to you
Like a streak of lightning.
So you started that theme that was going to be due tomorrow.
You wrote and wrote, saying lots of things,
And all it amounted to was nothing.
Just filled up space.
Well, this is all this is for.
Yours, truly.
—Exchange.