Thursday, September 20, 1928. The DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

To Our Readers:

It is our belief that the social life here on the Davidson campus does not have fitting publicity. And it is also our belief that as it is creditable enough and plays such an important part in the Davidson man’s life (and a part which is growing more important every year) that it should have ample publicity and recognition. We have set aside this column to be devoted entirely to recording the social doings of the campus. It will be our endeavor to print in this space those happenings which should prove of interest to the student body as a whole and which heretofore have only been passed from person to person.

YE EDITOR.

Greetings

This is an active social season for the Davidson man. Just returned to school or coming for the first time, he finds many social obligations and activities of a like nature awaiting him. For the old man, there is the greeting of old comrades and friends and the renewing of old friendships in the student body, in the faculty, and in the town. To him, there is the meeting of the Freshman class and learning those who will follow him. For the new man, there is the orientation to college life, to college customs, to college traditions. And then there is the more terrible ordeal of meeting the Sophomores. (It would be thought that the meeting of the Juniors and the Seniors is for him more pleasant.)

The first social activity entered upon by the Freshman class as a whole is the reception held in their honor by the Y. M. C. A. in the “gym” on Monday night. Later in the year, the “Y” will sponsor informal receptions for them. Of course, it must not be denied that a great deal of time will be spent in selecting that Braeburn and sending a box of candy to the best girl who is expected up on the first house-party. By that time, he will have a suitable vocabulary of college slang in his possession together with his roommate’s best tie to greet her. Eventually, he will become acquainted with those around him and proceed into the social life of the hill with confidence and ease.

New Social Homes

The most outstanding feature noted thus far to initiate fraternity life on the campus for the coming year is the line of fraternity houses on Concord Street, named by the authorities of the college as “Fraternity Court.” To the new men, these structures are buildings of attractive design and which enhance in a large measure his conception of the beauty of the place. To the old man, especially the old fraternity man, these new additions are a marked improvement and advancement in fraternity life here. They have created a great deal of interest and earnestness on the campus as a whole, all of which is favorable. It is assured that the weekend guests, the parents, alumni, and others visiting the houses will leave the “hill” with the same impression.

Rushing Season in Progress

The next week and a half will be very busy ones for the eleven national and local fraternities with the rushing of the new men from the Freshman class. Never in the history of the college has there ever been so large a class with which to associate. It is noted that while the season is short, it is pleasantly filled with social activities of various sorts on the part of the fraternity men for the would-be-initiates. From the present time until September 30th, house-parties, receptions, and smokers will be held. It was noted that a number of students left the “Hill” Saturday evening with the diversion apparently in Charlotte.

MANY CHANGES MADE IN DAVIDSONIAN (Continued from page 1)

Separate departments, and military, Y. M. C. A., and other like news will be given particular attention. Zeb V. Long will work in the capacity of sporting editor, Dave Anderson will have charge of features, and alumni news will come directly from Milton, alumni secretary. Of particular interest is the appointment of Paul Fry as society editor. It will be his duty to see that all social events at Davidson are covered in the columns of this paper. Each fraternity will submit such items as it may choose to him, along with society news of interest from other members of the student body.

LADD MILLS CHOSEN (Continued from page 1)

A member of the editorial staff of the Quips and Cranks. His past record at Davidson shows that he is well suited for the position which he holds and he can be expected to set an example for others while a member of the court.

FRESH ADDRESSED (Continued from page 1)

To get an education, but it is up to the student to take what is offered.

2. Character Formation: A Freshman is surrounded by a good environment and should form a true character. The school furnishes the brick, mortar, and trowel, but the student is his own architect and builder and it is up to him to form and strengthen his moral structure. He then explained the importance of character in later life.

3. Social Life: There are excellent opportunities at Davidson to develop one’s social relationships and form life friendships with real worthwhile men.

The keynote of his talk was that if one is to make a success, he must do it himself. A bore never gets very far in life unless he is a genius. He admonished the Freshmen to acquire social grace by observation and association, and to engage in some of the college activities. He, however, warned them against trying to participate in too many of them.

BATTALION DISTINGUISHED

For the third consecutive year, the local R. O. T. C. Battalion

OUR STORE - PATE-BROWN CO. WELCOME! College Men WHEN IN CHARLOTTE MAKE YOUR HEADQUARTERS We Enjoy Having You With Us.

Jazzmen Hold First Tryout

For Positions On Monday, October 17, Shearer Hall was the scene of the tryouts for the “Sunnyland Serenaders,” Davidson's up-to-date jazz orchestra, as four Freshmen candidates displayed their musical ability before Director Geer. The quartet aspiring to these positions included John Sevier, candidate for the trumpet; H. Y. Ryburn, for the piano; Robert Orr, for trombonist; and L. C. Griffin, for the saxophone. Of the ten musicians who composed last year’s orchestra, only six have returned to take their places. B. H. O. Geer comes back as director and trumpeter, and C. C. Orr resumes his position as saxophonist and violinist. J. H. Ramsuer and A. J. Thompson are the other returned saxophonists, while C. J. Albright and O. T. Gibson are banjo and bass horn players, respectively. At present, there are no candidates for the drums. Anyone wishing to try for this position may apply to Geer.

It is a lamentable fact that the potential vote of this country, as registered, rarely exceeds 25 percent, and the total vote in 1924 was only 50 percent, in round figures, of the total registration. It is estimated that there will be 56,000,000 qualified voters this year. If only three out of four of the voters should go to the polls, the result of the balloting would be representative. America is far behind the other republics of the world in the interest shown in elections, although this was the first of the great republics established. Germany, to illustrate, has only one-half of the population of the United States, and yet there were 2,000,000 more votes cast in that republic than in this country in 1924. Mr. Raskob, Democratic Chairman, referred to this fact in a letter made public about two weeks ago, writing “This cannot be a government of all the people by 50 percent of the people.”

W. K. P.has been rated as distinguished by the War Department. Davidson was the only college of its type to receive this rating in the entire country. Three years ago Captain Daugherity has been P. M. S. & T., and much credit for the past year’s success is due him. Major Scott, the new P. M. S. & T., brings an enviable record to Davidson and should continue Davidson’s good showing in R. O. T. C.

Rushing Season for Frats Is Shortened
Season of Two Weeks Allotted to Fraternities by Pan-Hellenic Council

Rushing season for the social fraternities on the campus has been materially shortened this year, thus bringing to a climax the movement which has been on foot for several years to shorten the rushing season. The Pan-Hellenic Council this year announced that only two weeks would be allowed to organized rushing by all the fraternities, and will meet in a short time to decide definitely on the date when the bids will be issued. The shortened period has caused a mad rush among the upper-classmen, and considerable writing was done before the opening of school. The opinions of a good many men on the campus seem to be expressed when it is said that a smaller group of men will be extended bids this year than ever before. They contend that a two-week rushing period is too short a time to learn whether or not a Freshman is desirable and congenial with the fraternity extending the bid. Many others, however, believe in the new arrangement, stating as their reasons, that less time is taken away from studies, and that the new plan is considerably less expensive.

The final decision to shorten the rushing season did not take place suddenly, but comes as a result of considerable discussion and much experimentation. Ten years ago, no Freshman was pledged until after Christmas. As time passed, the rushing season was gradually shortened, and the fraternities were allowed to extend the bids before Christmas, and the period has been materially shortened each year since then. At present, the new plan is only an experiment, and its success or failure will doubtless determine the future procedure. There has been no change made regarding the time of initiation. A pledgee cannot be initiated until the first semester reports show that he has made passing grades in at least three major subjects. During the interim of pledging and initiation, however, the Freshman is virtually a member of the fraternity so far as the use of the halls is concerned.

In The Collegiate World

Liberal Wisconsin

University of Wisconsin's boasted liberalism missed fire when the Student Forum cancelled a lecture by Mrs. Bertrand Russell, on the ground that her message was not in keeping with the policies of the Forum last spring. First objection was registered by Scott Goodnight, dean of men, when the Cardinal published excerpts from New York newspapers giving Mrs. Russell’s views on companionate marriage, free love, and eugenics. “The quotations attributed to her,” said Dean Goodnight, “were unworthy of any speaker who was invited to speak on a university platform.” He notified President Glenn Frank who then asked the officers of the Forum to reconsider their action. They decided to cancel the lecture, but insisted that the action was taken on their own initiative without either coercion or recommendation from the president. The chairman of the Forum explained that when the lecture was planned, it was believed that Mrs. Russell had “a valuable and significant” message for the students, but later information leads us to believe that we were wrong.” President Frank would make no statement, but referred an interviewer to his article written for the Cardinal's first Sunday magazine, before the Russell episode. That was entitled “Sane Censorship,” and said in part: “Official oversight of student discussion should, I think, concern itself, to the virtual exclusion of all other considerations, with the preservation of elementary good taste and common decency. It should not concern itself with a dogmatic selection of ‘safe and sane’ ideas. For, after all, most of the ideas we now think safe and sane were once derided as unsafe and insane.”

Both Dean Goodnight, and F. Louise Nardin, dean of women, approved the cancellation. Mrs. Russell did speak in Madison, but not until E. L. Myers, columnist on the Capital Times, had gone to a great deal of bother finding a hall that would permit the lecture.

Mutual Desire

Answering frequent editorials in the Yale News regretting the absence of personal contact between president and students, President James Rowland Angell, in a letter to the student paper, explains that he has tried several unsuccessful experiments and is “still giving consideration to other possible methods of accomplishing the desired results.” On the suggestion that the president should teach, he says: “Although I find greater pleasure in teaching than in anything else I have ever done, since becoming president of Yale there has never been a period when I could command the time again to undertake the teaching of a class, and I should be entirely unwilling to attempt it unless I could discharge the obligations to my own satisfaction, at least. I still hope this time may come.”

Saxophone Slang

“Slang and the saxophone are kin, for they both serve as means with which to express every mood—free or tense—of the human heart,” writes Dr. Frank H. Vizetelly, managing editor of the New Standard Dictionary, in an article called “Slang: the Saxophone of Speech,” in the Daily Princetonian. Dr. Vizetelly does not underestimate the forcefulness of slang, neither does he join the purists in denouncing it as vulgarizing to the language. “What has been said of slang in the past holds good for the present,” he writes, “for it is, and has been little else than a direct product of the spontaneous combustion of the emotions, caused by a bursting of the bonds of restriction that conventional life has imposed. It is really the ‘side show’ of speech which may, some day, win its way into the ring, and there prove the chief attraction. The people who think do not find it hard to cite examples of this, and college slang is full of it.” Yet for all this there are difficulties in the way of anyone who would officially adopt the new terms, Dr. Vizetelly continues: “In our academic institutions we have much slang that is virile and snappy, yet to one who devotes himself to the study of English, the redundance of unauthorized words and bizarre expressions frequently proves a source of unutterable annoyance and vexation. Should he take advantage of what he sees and hears in his own day, and incorporate into the language the frippery gathered through daily contact with the affairs of life or through familiar conversation with his fellow men? If so, then the very first to condemn him would be the literary critic, and he would not lack any of them to tell him that he had recognized insufferable vulgarity and debased the mother-tongue.”—The New Student.

All Wasted

“Come, come,” said a kind old gentleman to a little boy who was crying, “what's the matter?”
“I've been playing truant and just remembered it's Saturday.”—Stray Stories.

For Collegiate Clothes

College clothes are different this season... quieter patterns in Oxford Greys... Blues and Browns... See our new selections... $19.95 to $35.00
MANY WITH TWO PAIR PANTS
NEW TOP COATS $19.95 to $29.00
BELK BROTHERS CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Men’s Department

NEW FALL BRAEBURNS ARE HERE
What more need we say
MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE

Records Portable

Go to Davidson Book & Stationery Co. For
Parker Pens
School Supplies
Note Book
Nunnally Candy
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE