» for. Davidson. ..now. The point is that there are entirely

4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1928

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-in-Chief: A. N. WINSTON
Managing Editors: W. K. PRITCHETT, J. B. MORIARITY, C. R. LAKE
Athletic Editor: R. B. A. WILSON
Feature Editor: W. L. LINGLE
Associate Editors: F. C. WITHERS, T. T. JONES, L. C. WADSWORTH
Alumni Editor: R. C. GRADY
Exchange Editor: R. S. ABERNETHY

BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager: S. J. ALLISON
Assistant Business Managers: W. M. POWELL, P. M. CARESS
Subscription Manager: B. W. DICKSON
Circulation Manager: S. W. MORRIS
Solicitors: W. B. McGUIRE, E. H. McCALL

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President: W. H. BALDWIN
Vice-President: S. L. SINGER
Secretary-Treasurer: I. R. GRAHAM
Members: J. P. ANDERSON, J. P. McBRYDE, S. R. COKER, W. McDERMID, A. T. EDELMAN, W. B. McQUEEN, ALLAN FREW, F. D. MILLER, P. B. FRY, V. A. MILTON, E. S. HEFFNER, R. T. NUNAN, R. F. JARRATT, D. T. STOKES, R. W. KIRKPATRICK, W. R. WEAVER, Z. V. LONG

EDITORIAL

THESE FRATERNITIES

Last Wednesday, when honorary fraternity bids were issued, was the occasion for numerous suppressed chuckles from a few, complete indifference from many, and groans and wails from one or two disillusioned undergraduates. For this occasion brought before the students here one of the great farces of our college drama. The evils of over-organization have been noticed for several years, but not until this year have they been so evident. Several fraternities failed to issue any bids, not because they did not consider anyone in the student body eligible, but because no one in the fraternity saw fit to call a meeting. Not all of the fraternities failing to issue bids came under this category, but there are at least two that did not consider bidding at all.

Interest in honorary organizations has waned greatly this year due to the fact that the students have realized the worthlessness of a number of them. This is not a tirade against those honorary fraternities really accomplishing something on the campus, but it is an attack on those that have done absolutely nothing this year, and have no intention of doing anything in the future. There are six or seven honorary fraternities on the campus having regular meetings, good programs, and interesting discussions. The rest very seldom have meetings, no programs, and do absolutely nothing—some even failing to issue bids on the date set apart by the honorary fraternity council.

There are some who would say that six or seven honorary fraternities are too many. But that is not the question. The point is that there are entirely too many now, and that some of these should be disbanded. One honorary fraternity has had but one meeting this year. The president elected last year resigned at that meeting, another head was elected. This is the sum total of all business transacted by this society this year. Possibly this is an exaggerated case, but there are several others in practically the same condition. Another fraternity has but four meetings a year, two for election of new members and two for initiation—we are not referring to the honorary scholastic fraternity. If these cases are any indication of the feeling of the students who are members of the various organizations, they should be disbanded at once.

An honorary fraternity which is really active is a helpful influence in campus life. A fraternity of this type is appreciated by its members and honored on the campus. It is this type of fraternity which should exist here, but unfortunately there are only a few examples. The fraternities which do not do anything helpful either to the students or the college, but afford only another opportunity for a few to claim college honors, should certainly be abolished. Last year there was some talk of abolishing these organizations, but nothing was done about it. From this it seems that students are willing to pay ten and twelve dollars for absolutely nothing, merely to claim affiliation with some organization of which no one but the members know the full name. If these individuals in the impotent organizations prefer meeting only once a year, adding a title of no meaning under their names, then someone else should step in to disband these organizations.

The honorary fraternity council should be the one to take this step, but it meets only three or four times a year, twice to set Bid Day, and is therefore not deeply concerned with the life of any of its members. With a number of organizations lifeless, and the governing body practically so, it seems high time for somebody else to step in and strip these parasites from Davidson.

AND AGAIN POLITICS

From the editorials and open forum articles being written on the political situation here at Davidson it would seem to the casual observer that the Davidson student body is seething and reeking with corrupt politics. We hasten to correct this misconception. We are frank in saying that there is little of politics at Davidson compared to other institutions. Naturally when candidates for an important office are being selected there is some discussion, naturally the friends of a particular candidate are anxious to see their candidate elected. But those who know Davidson laugh when it is said there are political machines here that should be abolished.

Naturally there are some evils, as will be evident in any system of selection of candidates and in any system of elections. The student body votes upon some men for positions about which the voters know nothing. They know very little of the abilities of the various candidates and cannot always judge without prejudice. In a small school as Davidson, however, men know each other fairly well and can generally decide which man they believe is the logical candidate. There has also been some criticism of the methods of nominating men for certain offices. But as yet there have been no better plans proposed. With all elections there will ever be present a few evils which it will be impossible to eradicate. Davidson is not entirely free from petty politics and never will be, but the present system will prevail until a better one is proposed and accepted.

The fears of any who are concerned about the system of elections and the politics here may well be subdued when they consider the men who have been elected in the past. This institution has been singularly free from student government officials who are not judicious, wise, and tactful. The recent elections help to bear out this statement. Kell will undoubtedly steer the fortunes of the Davidson student government in good style through the coming year, as has his predecessor. Melton is well suited for the presidency of the “Y”, no one could say that he will not devote all of his interests to its betterment. Brown has proven his abilities along journalistic lines by three years of arduous labor in various departments of this publication.

And though there has been much discussion about the situation, we are more optimistic than we once were, for we believe that the students have chosen wisely. Furthermore, it is not illogical to believe that they will continue to choose wisely in the years to come.

Open Forum

BALLOTS

It seems that in an institution as well organized as Davidson that there should be some definite system of balloting. Under the present system, voters are given scratch paper, or a blank mimeographed ballot, and asked to indicate their choice of candidates in about two or three minutes’ time. These ballots are supposed to be dropped in wooden boxes. There are always many who leave them in the seat, ask someone else to drop them in the box, or fail to vote altogether. There are never more than three hundred and fifty or four hundred ballots cast in any election. When one considers that Davidson has a student body of six hundred and twenty or thirty, it is deplorable.

Men who do not attend chapel have no way of voting unless they know what candidates will be nominated, write out their choice and ask a friend to drop it in a box. Ballot boxes should be left open for the first period for these men, or give them a chance to vote in some way.

If it would be possible, a general “Election Day” should be set apart, and the entire student body be given an opportunity to vote. This would be a great improvement over the present system.Collegiate Comment

Out of Bounds

The editorship of the magazine at Wisconsin was decided by a flip of a coin last week. The staff voted upon two candidates and the result was a tie. One easy way to elect people to offices at any rate. Much more efficient than writing down a name on a piece of paper.

Dr. E. D. Warfield, president of Wilson College, says that college training prevents divorce. Dr. Warfield claims to have made a careful survey of the situation and that his conclusions are logical. Then the Charlotte papers report that companionate marriage will cause many more suicides. Things are much more complicated now than when the cave man dragged his squaw (or did he call her by such endearing terms?) away from her cavern apartment.

The Emory Wheel includes a two-page rotogravure section in its issue this week. Pictures of various guests at the house parties were published. Some were pretty and some weren't. Those that failed to register pulchritude probably had a B. F. on the staff. Extra-curricula activities do help at times.

The Flat Hat of William and Mary is not quite as flat as it once was. Ten pages every issue now.

The Old Gold and Black of Wake Forest reports that a ton of weight is lost by candidates out for spring football every afternoon. It would be interesting to note how much is lost here during this week with reviews spread about and seniors working for exemptions.

Oh, yes, we were about to forget—the chairman of the Junior-Senior banquet at N. C. C. W. requests that it be announced that young gentlemen invited to the aforementioned banquet refrain from sending corsages to their dates. At least that will ease the conscience of the B. F. who wasn’t going to send one anyway.

The annual mud-fight between the freshman and soph classes at Stanford University has been discontinued. Yes, and snow fights have been discontinued here. More of this California propaganda, as the Floridian would say.

Eight students from the University of Florida are at Citadel for several days visit to inspect the military unit there. Possibly they will leave before the inspectors come—but then maybe the University is out to beat Citadel.

Beta Beta Beta (etc., ad infinitum), national biological fraternity, is planning to install a chapter at the University of Chattanooga. One gastropod is still holding out, but they are planning to put their star hydra on him and expect favorable reports within a day or so.

A joint meeting of the chemistry students at State and St. Mary’s was held the other evening. Well, there’s no need telling what they discussed.

Student Government at the University of Wisconsin is no more. The president of the university has accepted the self-deposed student senate’s recommendation that its charter be considered defunct. The boys will probably raise their averages a bit now.

Will Rogers was initiated into the Auburn chapter of Scabbard and Blade when he spoke there. Possibly they too have heard how much Rogers has been making lately.

The co-ed dormitories at Wisconsin have inaugurated the custom of exchanging fifty guests with the men’s dormitories for Sunday dinners.

A state law in Alabama prohibiting trade stamps has caused the rebate which the University of Alabama bookstore annually refunds to students to be declared illegal.

The following is reported to have been handed in on a memory work quiz at the Davidson grammar school:
Liza Grape men allry mindus
Weaken maka Liza Blime
Andy Parting Lee B. Hindus
Foot brims Johnny Sands a time.

A very successful Dad’s Day was held at Lafayette College last week with the fathers of over three hundred students present. “Dad’s Day” should be held here.

Regular ballots with all the candidates and the positions they are seeking should be printed and the polls left open all day. This would eliminate all the rush of voting at chapel period and give all men a chance to vote, and consider all of the candidates for quite a period before they vote upon them.

Being the son of good Presbyterians, it never occurred to me that there was any possibility of a truth being found in astrology, palmistry, or the like. All of these occult arts, it seemed to me, defied the basic doctrines of free will and predestination. Hence my cynicism. The past weekend I might say shattered my illusions, at least certain events caused me to reconsider the signs and omens of the heavens and the palms.

For there came one from afar, feminine of course, and possessed of an intellect rarely found in the usual weekend visitor. A journalist she professed to be, but palmistry was included in her lore. Having no unpublished secrets, either tainted or otherwise embarrassing, I permitted her to delve into my present character, past and future life. One glance at my palms was enough to convince her that I had been afflicted with a serious illness in my infancy almost ending in death, nor could I deny it. In three more minutes she had exposed my inmost characteristics better than I could have done it myself. In a final effort she predicted sixty years as my final time limit and a possibility of a stroke of apoplexy at the age of thirty-five, which of course has imbued the feeling of an electric chair’s victim in me, and has caused me to doubt her prowess to some extent. At the same time her attempts at character analysis on other victims were equally successful.

Lest someone suggest a rule banning such ominous prophets from the campus let me say that she professes to possess no mystic powers. Rather she is doubtful herself whether the truth can always be revealed through such an uncertain medium. She simply follows the rules of the game as laid down by the Chinese, a little farther back than man has been able to remember. Still her prophecies have been fulfilled. One unfortunate lad was discovered to possess a terrible catastrophe or unprecedented success in his “life line.” Three weeks later he was drowned, which doesn’t make me feel a bit better about my approaching attack of St. Vitus Dance or whatever it is.

And then again that night simply has been another lucky, or rather unlucky strike. The tale is told of an eighteenth-century divinator who after making a thorough study of the subject, pronounced palmistry and all of its sister sciences untruths. One old lady was not so easily convinced, however, and insisted that she be told where a certain lost jewel lay, through the medium of her palm. In desperation, the supposed possessor of mystic powers concocted a fictitious prophecy and told her to dig at a certain spot. Unfortunately, the jewel was unearthed upon a search at the given place.

Palmistry, as an art, was first divided into three parts with distinct objectives. The Chinese, in discovering the secret, only attempted to define one’s character through the lines of the hands. Later, however, it was discovered that certain things could be told about the subject’s past life and this became a separate and distinct science. Still later the unscrupulous began to practice the art and to increase pecuniary returns attempted to delve into the future. Today we have a combination of the three and it is exceedingly difficult to distinguish absurdities from partial truths, the line between being very thin because of the uncertain nature of the practice. Certain elements of astrology have even entered into the game and of course we all feel that the latter is an exceedingly impotent practice. The best authorities seem to agree now that certain traits of character and past actions can be determined but that the remainder of the art is a myth. Even these characteristics, however, are determined partially by the shapes of the fingers and as a result one may change from good to bad or vice versa simply by exercising his digits.

The same feminine visitor imparted other knowledge to me. Often I have longed to sit in on the conversation that takes place in exclusive female company after a weekend party in any of the boarding houses. My wishes have been partially gratified in receiving certain of the conversation verbatim. Suffice it to say that to blackmail has become my sole ambition. Let those who wish their private lives to remain unexposed send a communication to Box 251 with a five-dollar bill. Don’t miss this opportunity, if you have a guilty conscience.

—W. L. L.

At Mississippi A. & M. elections are in full swing now. At this institution, candidates announce that they will run for various positions. According to reports, the lists are full.

The Duke golf team has secured a professional to coach the squad. The cheerleader will be out soon to plead for great silence as the number one man sights a three-foot putt.