WISDOM is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom; and with all thy getting get understanding. Proverbs 4:7.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

FOOTBALL SATURDAY DAVIDSON-GUILFORD RICHARDSON FIELD

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 20, 1928 No. 1

ROBINSON DEFENDS SMITH IN SPEECH AT SHEARER HALL

Students Suspend Registration to Listen to Nominee

SPEAKS SEPTEMBER 12

Dr. Martin Clearly States That College is No Candidate or Party

Before an audience which filled and overflowed Shearer Hall, Senator Joseph T. Robinson, Democratic Vice-presidential nominee, spoke to the students
and citizens of the territory surrounding Davidson College, on Wednesday, September 12. Senator Robinson came to Davidson as a tribute
to the greatest alumnus and Democratic leader, Woodrow Wilson.

Dr. Martin, president of the college, in introducing Chairman Jones, of the County Democratic Committee, stated definitely that the college
as an institution was non-partisan but that the individuals of the college would vote according to their own sentiments. In
opening his address the Arkansas Senator took time to pay a tribute to the service of this institution, and to
give the members of the student body some sound philosophical advice. Senator Robinson took as the task of his speech
the defense of his fellow candidate against three charges which he felt were entertained against Alfred E. Smith in the
South. Paying a magnificent tribute to the personality of the Democratic candidate, the Senator, after establishing an axiomatic truth, defended
charges made against Smith as a Catholic. Going back to the foundations of the American government, he urged that religious
distinctions should not be made in the government of the land.

The second charge against which he defended Al Smith was that of his supposed antagonism to the public school system.
For his proof in this line he went back over the development of the public school system in the State
of New York during the eight years of Smith's administration, showing the remarkable improvements made in schools, teachers’ salaries, and
methods. At this point in his speech he scored an applause-evoking hit against the Hoover-Democrat.

The Senator then turned to the defense of Smith’s connection with Tammany Hall. Going through the history of Tammany he
presented the institution as one of Democratic and noble principles. He maintained that he would rather have in power in
the United States a man who could dominate Tammany Hall rather than a man who would be dominated by thieves
such as corrupted the Harding administration. In closing the Arkansan asserted that one could not look back over the past
eight years of national corruption and repudiate Smith in the name of honest government.

SPLENDID MEN TO SPEAK HERE SOON

“Tolly” Thompson to Conduct Fall Evangelistic Services

As is the custom of the Y. M. C. A. of Davidson College, it has again secured some of the
finest speakers in the South to deliver the messages at the “Y” vesper services each Sunday afternoon. Men who have
reached the height of their calling, who are able to inspire and help and who have a real message, have
been secured to speak to the students.

On September 23 John Melton, the president, and Camper O'Neal, the secretary of the “Y”, will both address the student
body. During the past year each of these men were members of the cabinet of the association and in their
respective departments served the Y. M. C. A. well, devoting much of their time to the work.

On September 30 Dr. J. C. Rowan, of Concord, will be in charge of the services. Dr. Rowan is a
member of the class of 1905 and needs no introduction to Davidson men. Dr. Edgar A. Gammon, also of the
class of 1905, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, of Charlotte, comes back in the service of the “Y”
and student body again.

The series of fall evangelistic services will open October 21 with Dr. W. Taliaferro Thompson, '05, conducting the meetings. Dr.
Thompson, known by all as “Tolly,” is a wide-awake member of the Southern Church, and member of the faculty of
Union Theological Seminary.

Frew Places Third In National Contest

Carrying the banner of Davidson College into the field of national recognition, Allan Frew, ‘30, of Charleston, W. Va., as
representative of the South, took third place in the national oratorical contest on the “Constitution of the United States,” held
June 21. Carl Albert, University of Oklahoma, runner up in the high school contest on the same subject in 1927,
took first place. Herbert Wenig, of Leland Stanford University, winner of both the national and international high school contests in
1926, took second place. The popular decision of the 1,800 people present was given to Frew, whose third position as
awarded by the judges entitled him to a prize amounting to $750.

Five hundred and thirty-one colleges were represented by the seven men who won their respective regional tryouts. Six hundred thousand
college men were eligible to enter the contest. The seven schools directly represented in the finals were Leland Stanford University,
Loyola College of Chicago, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Bucknell University of Pennsylvania, University of Oklahoma, Princeton, and Davidson. The largest
school was the University of Oklahoma, with 18,000, the smallest, with the exception of Davidson, was Loyola College of Chicago,
with 5,500 students.

The Oratoricals were sponsored by the Better American Federation, a branch of the Chamber of Commerce of America, and were
held in the Bovard auditorium of the University of California, at Los Angeles. Admission was granted to the auditorium by
a system of complimentary cards.

REV. WOODS IS FIRST “Y” SPEAKER OF YEAR

“The Fighting Instinct” was the theme of the address delivered by the Rev. Edgar A. Woods, pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, Sunday at the first Y. M. C. A. vesper service of the year. Taking as his
text a portion of the seventh verse of the fourth chapter of Second Timothy, “I have fought a good fight,”
he stressed the importance of the combative tendency in real life. Every healthy person has within his being this instinct
to fight; therefore it is not strange that Paul, the apostle of love, should take many of his figures of
speech from the field of warfare.

When Paul was speaking of his struggle with life he spoke of it as a good fight and not as
a disorderly brawl. His fight had been lifted from the low plane of physical controversy to the high plane of
spiritual conflict and victory. Starting with the cravings of greed actuating his action he ended with a high moral purpose.

There are two great fields where Christian men must fight if they would attain real character. A man’s personal life
is a constant struggle against temptation, for the type of goodness that comes without effort is spineless and of no
avail in facing real problems. Many men need this fighting instinct in facing moral questions which have constantly kept their
lives in the shadow of indecision and unrest. The moral coward may be a physical giant and with all the
daring necessary for athletic prowess yet he lacks the courage to face the facts of his past life and settle
them through the aid of Jesus Christ.

The fighting instinct is needed in the world at large as well as in personal life. The business man who
conducts his business enterprise on higher standards than those of his competitors has a real fight on his hands. The
young man who determines to hold onto his ideals regardless of what others may say has a harder struggle on
his hands than if he were asked to face an enemy battle line.

There are three attitudes which are taken toward this good fight of which Paul speaks, according to Mr. Woods. The
cynical, destructive, Menckenesque attitude may be one of these, yet a person of this type never offers anything constructive to
take the place of what he has ridiculed. The second attitude, to ignore the existence of any struggle, does not
appeal to any red-blooded man; and thus only the third is left. This is that of the young Christian who
contends willingly and eagerly for his ideals and who can say with Paul at the end of life that he
has kept the faith.

COLLEGE RE-OPENS FOR NINETY-THIRD SESSION, SEPT. 12

Five Hundred and Ninety-Seven Men Matriculated to Date

LARGE FRESHMEN CLASS

Large Senior Class of Last Year Leaves Great Number of Vacancies for New Men

One week ago today Davidson College entered upon its ninety-third year of active service to the youth of the Southland.
In the Freshman class there are registered 258 students, the largest number in the history of the college since 1923,
at which time the enrollment was 260. Of the 258 registered for the present session only 226 have matriculated. The
larger portion of the remaining 32 is expected on the campus in a few days. The reason given for so
large a Freshman class is that a large number of Seniors were graduated last spring, leaving room for a larger
number of new men. Of the total number matriculated, which is 597, besides the 226 which are Freshmen, there are
118 Seniors, 114 Juniors, and 134 Sophomores. There are four special students, and one graduate student working toward a M.A.
degree. The total number enrolled is smaller due to the fact that a greater number of upper-classmen who had registered
failed to matriculate than had been calculated. The college authorities expect, however, to have a capacity enrollment in a few
days. At one time during the summer the men who had registered numbered 651.

DEAN OF INSTRUCTION APPOINTED

Dr. J. Moore MacConnell, since 1907 professor in History, was elected as Dean of Instruction, by the board of trustees
in a spring meeting. His new duties will differ from those of Dean Sentelle in that Dr. MacConnell will serve
as official advisor to all candidates for graduation.

HOMECOMING DAY Nov. 17, 1928

EXERCISES IN MORNING ALUMNUS LUNCHEON AT NOON CAROLINA-DAVIDSON FOOTBALL GAME AFTERNOON

Pritchett Explains Athletic Schedule

Accredited Course in Physical Training is Prospect of Future

Captain Pritchett, Davidson's new physical instructor, announced Monday the initiation of a system of physical education which is to be
greatly enlarged in the future. At present the system requires of all Juniors and Seniors not taking R. O. T.
C., a minimum of one hour a day, three days per week, in any one of ten sports. They may
participate in football, basketball, track, baseball, boxing, wrestling, gymnastics, calisthenics, golf, tennis or, if he wishes to engage in any
other sport, he may do so by application.Within a) tion to Captain Pritchett. The system will be conducted on an
honor basis, each man filling out his own blanks in Captain Pritchett’s office in the basement of Chambers, on an

Student Body Petitions Freshmen Addressed By College Officers Dr. Martin and Mr. Jackson Welcome and Advise New Men

Orientation meetings on last Wednesday night with some sound advice as to their procedure when confronted with various problems. He
told them that a Freshman only gets hazed when he invites it. He showed them what Davidson meant to the
world by two illustrations: The Charlotte Mercantile Co., which prefers Davidson men to any other college graduates, and the Southern
Bell Telephone Company, which, when asked why they didn’t take technical college men instead of Davidson men, answered that they
wanted character first of all.

Next, he warned them to act as if they were at home and only spend as much as they spent
at home. Each Freshman should make his course an investment instead of an expense. He also told them something of
the value of the property and its care.

Dr. Martin gave the Freshmen a warm welcome to Davidson and advised them, each and all, to be men. “Stand
four-square and look the world in the face,” he admonished.

Fall track is now in progress and training for wrestling will commence soon. Boxing will be started this winter. Freshmen
and Sophomores not required to engage in these sports are urged to cooperate with the attempt to build material for
future teams by entering this work. A future prospect is a year’s course in physical training giving regular college credits.
The course will include the major and minor sports and will consist of textbook work, lectures, and practical sports. Progress
will be retarded, however, for the lack of a “tin can” for winter demonstration.

Because of the high interest in the November election of the President, College Humor and all the American college journals
have planned a nation-wide straw vote to determine the voting preference on the two candidates. All college students, regardless of
age, are asked to vote. The complete student opinion is of much more interest than just the votes of those
students who are of voting age because it can then be determined what the college world thinks of the two
candidates.

Herbert Hoover, the Republican candidate, was born in West Branch, Iowa. He received his degree in engineering at Leland Stanford
University in 1895 and has since been honored by 27 other universities. He held the position of Food Conservator during
President Wilson's term. Alfred E. Smith, the Democratic candidate, was born in New York City. He started his varied and
successful career as a newsboy and became one of New York's leading men. He has been elected Governor of New
York State four times and has a personality that is rare.

The ballots will be distributed Friday night and it is hoped by those in charge that all students will register
their vote and leave the ballot in a conspicuous place in their rooms for collection the next day.

Colleges Hold Election In National Straw Vote

All votes will be cleared through College Humor and returns from the American colleges, with pictures, will be run in
The Davidsonian about November 1.

Many Changes Made In The Davidsonian

As The Davidsonian makes its first appearance of the year today, several striking changes will be noticed in the general
make-up of the paper. In an attempt to improve the style and smartness of Davidson’s weekly student publication, the editor
and staff have decided to make considerable changes from previous issues.

In the physical set-up of The Davidsonian, it will be noticed that six pages of six columns each are being
used instead of eight pages of five columns each as last year. The standard newspaper columns of 13 picas have
been adopted to facilitate the composition of headlines and advertising. A vital change in the outside appearance of the publication
has been brought about by the replacement of the old title cut by straight type. The news gathering agencies of
the paper will be highly departmentalized this year. Sports, features, society, and alumni news will each be handled through separate
departments.

(Continued on page 3)

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DAVIDSON, N.C.

Dear Sir:

SUBSCRIPTION BLANK

W. M. POWELL, Business Manager,

Enclosed you will find a check for $2.00 for one year’s subscription to The Davidsonian, weekly publication.

Very truly yours,

He next outlined the opportunities offered by Davidson as follows: 1. Education: Davidson enables one

(Continued on page 3)

Jackson, introduced by Professor, opened the last of the Freshman meetings on last Wednesday night with some sound advice as
to their procedure when confronted with various problems. Seeking to allay the worst fear of a college-bound Freshman, he told
them that a Freshman only gets hazed when he invites it. He showed them what Davidson meant to the world
by two illustrations: The Charlotte Mercantile Co., which prefers Davidson men to any other college graduates, and the Southern Bell
Telephone Company, which, when asked why they didn’t take technical college men instead of Davidson men, answered that they wanted
character first of all.

SIX FACULTY CHANGES AS COLLEGE REOPENS

Only one increase will be made in the Davidson College faculty when the college officially opens on Thursday, September 13,
but six changes will have been made in the personnel of the institution, announced Dr. W. J. Martin, president. The
new addition to the faculty is Prof. Norton G. Pritchett, who comes to Davidson as director of physical education, a
new department created at the Presbyterian institution. For the past several years, Mr. Pritchett has been director of physical education
at Woodberry Forest, and prior to this connection obtained considerable experience in this work.

Three Davidson professors are returning after a year’s leave of absence. Prof. A. V. Goldiere obtained a master of arts
degree in romance language at Yale and will be associate professor of French and Spanish. Prof. Ernest A. Beaty spent
the past year at Columbia University and returns as assistant professor of Latin, and Prof. J. H. Davis, Jr., will
be assistant professor of Zoology after spending a year at the University of Chicago. J. T. Kimbrough, of Owingsville, Ky.,
who graduated at Davidson in 1926 and who has studied at the University of Kentucky, will become an assistant professor
of mathematics. D. H. Howard, of Lynchburg, Va., and T. E. Lothery, Jr., of Davidson, who both completed their four
years at Davidson last May, will be instructors in chemistry and physics, respectively.

Prof. Lewis B. Schenck has been granted a year’s leave of absence and will be preparing himself at Yale for
the chair of religious education which is to be established at Davidson in 1929. Other members of the faculty who
will not return are H. H. Roseberry, who will instruct and study at the University of Maryland; P. M. Patterson,
who will do graduate work at John Hopkins; J. A. Crow, who will be connected with New York University, and
L. A. Wooten, who has accepted a position as commercial chemist in the New York Telephone Company.

Major Scott will be head of the local R. O. T. C. unit, replacing Capt. R. D. Daugherity, who has
been detailed for duty at Fort Benning, Ga. Major Scott has been at Davidson for several weeks, making preparations for
the approaching work of this department.

Faculty for Leadership in Daily Worship Period

Students Pledge Co-operation if Petition is Granted by Faculty

“Y” TO HAVE CONTROL

Crisis in Attitude of Student Body Towards Chapel Moves Leaders to Action

By the vote taken in chapel Monday morning, the students passed the petition to submit to the faculty concerning the
active participation of the students in the devotional exercises. No definite action has been taken by the faculty. A number
of the most prominent members of the school were aware of the behavior during the devotional period in chapel and
have sought the following petition as a possible remedy:

“We, the students of Davidson College, realizing that the behavior during the devotional period of chapel has not been such
as befits the conduct of a gentleman and a student of Davidson, and desiring to change the character of this
period so that we can worship our Lord and Master in the true spirit of devotion, do hereby submit the
following petition to the faculty:

1. That the devotional period of the chapel hour be put in the hands of the students.
2. That the cabinet of the Y. M. C. A. be responsible to get the leaders of this period.
3. That, if this petition is granted, each and every Davidson man pledges his support and co-operation toward making this
period a real true period of worship.”

After a motion was made and seconded, discussion was in order and several students expressed their opinion pro and con
upon the feasibility of the plan, the consensus of opinion being in favor of the new method. The final clause
in the petition concerning the pledging of support and co-operation by the students was read twice by the president and
special stress was laid upon that section. No opposition was voiced on that account.

LADD MILLS CHOSEN FOR FRESHMAN COURT

It was necessary to appoint a new member on the Court of Control due to the fact that one of
its members was united in solemn matrimony. The lucky gentleman was none other than Jim Hammett, of Anderson, S. C.
The president of the student body, Bob Kell, has given this honor to Ladd Mills, of Greenville, S. C. Mills
is a member of the S. A. E. fraternity, a football player, and

(Continued on page 3)

“Y” HOST OF FRESH CLASS RECEPTION

In spite of impending rain, the Y. M. C. A. entertained the Freshmen in their annual reception in a very
acceptable fashion Monday night. The gymnasium with tasteful decorations was the scene chosen for the opening social event of the
year. The purpose of the “Y” in entertaining the Freshmen each year is to form a closer bond of contact
between the new men and the faculty. The faculty and their wives were present, forming a receiving line down which
each Freshman passed, meeting the faculty members.

After the class had met the faculty, ice cream and cake were served, followed by punch served by Mrs. Hengeveld.
The affair then turned into a very informal gathering, a spirit of congeniality pervading. Immediately after the affair, many of
the fraternities invited Freshmen to smokers at their houses on Fraternity Court. Dr. and Mrs. Martin, together with several other
members of the faculty, then visited the fraternity houses for the first time since their completion.

In this enjoyable reception, 227 Freshmen from about 20 states were brought together for the first time with the Senior
class, which was also invited to the event.
