THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 9, 1928

Dr. Oren Moore Speaks On Parable of Good Samaritan

Sunday evening at the Y. M. C. A. vespers, Dr. Oren Moore addressed the students of the college for the second time during the year. He was formerly heard as one of the speakers on Homecoming day last fall. At the “Y” services, he was introduced by Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, as a prominent young physician of Charlotte, a former touchdown man for Davidson, and at present, an enthusiastic supporter of his Alma Mater.

Dr. Moore based the theme of his talk on the parable of the Good Samaritan, developing the subject in an original manner by giving the attitude of the various men who came into contact with the Jew who was robbed and mutilated. First, there were those men who had waylaid the Jew, robbing and leaving him wounded. These men represent that class of people who take as their doctrine the principle that might makes right.

Dr. Moore then explained the nature of the cycle through which civilization passes. This cycle covers a period roughly estimated at 1,800 years. It begins with the savage with whom might makes right. It then gradually progresses until it reaches that stage when the humanitarian impulse is introduced. It then further evolves until it begins to degenerate and defeat its own ends.

The next men who come into proximity with the Jew are the priest and the Levite. Both of these men passed by on the other side. They are the representatives of the class of people in the world today who have the attitude that they can do whatever they may please with what they possess. The priest and the Levite had certain business they were supposed to do, and helping their fellow Jew out would have possibly interfered with their convenience.

But the Samaritan approaches the scene. The Samaritan was an enemy of the Jew as a race and as an individual. He had to have some pressing business to bring him on the road to Jerusalem. But he had time enough to stop and give the wounded Jew medical attention, sympathy, and money. Applying a touch of his own profession, Dr. Moore mentioned the fact that the Samaritan knew the fundamental basis of medicine. He poured wine into the wound. As a first aid, this was a good remedy as alcohol is a wonderful antiseptic. He then bound the wound with oil, which is the basis of all healing ointments.

The Samaritan was a tall man who helped somebody. Tall in that he towered above the littleness of his fellow Samaritans and inimical Jews. Dr. Moore’s final touch was the modern application of the parable. Every day the more unfortunate are demanding three things of us: our time, money, and sympathy. Do we have the “It’s yours, I'll take it” attitude, or the “It’s mine, I'll keep it” feeling, or yet, the “It’s mine and I'll share it” tendency?

Selection of Men Raises Standard

According to an announcement coming from the office of Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean of the college, there was this year a smaller number of men who were required to leave school on account of their failure to pass the required number of subjects than in previous years. This encouraging fact was due, Dr. Sentelle believes, to the care with which the students enrolled in the college have been chosen in the past few years. Selective tests were used in picking the men to be matriculated, and in this way, a limited number of men especially fitted for college work were chosen from a large field. Year before last, there were 31 men who were forced to leave, last year there were 19, and this year there were only 12. The continuation of this selective policy will, it is felt, create a very high scholastic standard for the school, and as a result, the number of failures will be reduced to a minimum.

Duke Acts As Host To Volunteer Bands

The Student Volunteers in North Carolina are holding their Annual State Conference at Duke University February 17-19. A delegation of 250 is expected. This conference is the only one of its kind in the state and will prove to be one of the outstanding Student Conferences of the year. It is an annual affair, but this year it is taking on more significance than in the past. It is a follow-up of the great De...

Dr. Greene, of Columbia Theological Seminary, to Conduct Spring Services

Alumni Send Telegram Praising Popular Professor

MEETINGS IN MARCH

Conducted During Vocational Guidance Program to Aid Men in Choosing Life Work

The spring revival services will be conducted this year by Rev. J. B. Greene, D.D., professor of Theology and Ethics at Columbia Theological Seminary, in Atlanta, Ga. These services are held on the campus every fall and spring, under the supervision of the local Y. M. C. A. There is some possibility of Dr. Greene's not being able to come at the last moment, but he has consented to accept the invitation, tentatively, for the first Sun...

...sions a live issue with every college student.” Some of the leading speakers will be Bert Russell, just returning from South America, Gordon Poteat, missionary to China and editor of the Student Volunteer Movement Bulletin, Miriam, missionary to Korea, W. Y. Chien, a Christian...National, now taking his graduate work in this country. Most of these were at Detroit and they bring you the message from that great student gathering. W. Y. Chen was a speaker there. Then there is something about a Student Volunteer gathering that you can't get elsewhere. Just ask those who have attended. The whole student volunteer group hopes to attend the conference and any others that are interested in becoming delegates can see Glenn Fry any time this week.

The Detroit Convention held during the Christmas holidays. The conference hopes to use and to share that energy in a definite way for challenging fellow students to the task of world missions. The theme of the conference is “Missions.”

Dr. Greene was formerly pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greenwood, S. C., but for a number of years past has been located at Columbia Theological Seminary. He is considered one of the strongest of Christian characters, and one of the ablest of ministers, in the Presbyterian Church. He is a preacher with a powerful appeal, an appeal that is especially strong to the young men of today. He comes to Davidson with a high recommendation from its alumni at Columbia. A telegram from Joe Garrison, of the class of '26, in regard to their attitude, says: “All Davidson men consider Dr. Greene excellent.”

This meeting is called the life work meeting and will come at the time of the Vocational Guidance Institute. One week of the Institute will be given over for the meeting. Although the central theme of these services will be in regard to a man’s proper choice of his life’s work, they will, however, be evangelistic services, like the ones conducted by Dr. Vander Meulen in the fall.

Dr. Soper of Duke University; Dr. Elto Goodwin, The meeting will open Sunday night of March the fourth, at the vesper service hour. Services will be held each morning at the regular chapel periods, and each night immediately following the evening meal. The meeting will close Wednesday night, March the seventh.

An opportunity will be given to anyone wishing to have an interview with Dr. Greene, on the subject of his life’s work, or any other on which he might feel that Dr. Greene could be of service. The Y. M. C. A. gives a special invitation at this time, as they have at meetings past, for any of those desiring it, to have an interview arranged by them.

Last spring Dr. Edward Gammon, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, of Charlotte, conducted the meeting, which resulted in an outstanding success. All indications point to equally favorable results for the coming revival.

College Paper Not for Provincialism

Lake Forest, Ill. (New Student Service) — While an occasional editor now is kept busy trying to explain to a critical communicant why the college paper limits itself to campus happenings, the editor of The Stentor of Lake Forest College, has tried to explain to the student council why he doesn’t restrict his paper to the campus exclusively. The editor, Fred Genschmer, who gently ignored the council's first summons to discuss the paper’s policy, was informed that he is “only an appointee of the council and subject to its action.” As reported in The Stentor:

“The council point of view was epitomized by Mr. Macklin who stated that the students were not interested in literary and technical matters appearing in various columns; that more items of local interest should be covered; and that the news should be written down to the interest of the readers. The Student Council further contended that not enough space was being devoted to important student activities, such as the Junior Prom, Athletic events, etc. In answer to these arguments the editor pointed out the growing tendency in modern colleges to outgrow provincialism; that it is by far easier to fill up a paper with accounts of events with which every reader is already acquainted, that news articles were purposely condensed so as to get a wider range of subjects; and that the students might voice their opinions in letters appearing in the paper. The Council, however, contended that the school paper should be more a matter of record than of student opinion or comment.”

The meeting ended in a deadlock, and The Stentor is still grazing in foreign pastures.

“Ain’t It a Grand and Glorious Feelin’?”

WHEN YOU'RE IN THE BEST OF HEALTH AND YOU FEEL YOU MUST GET AWAY TO PINEHURST FOR A COUPLE OF WEEKS OF REST AND INSIDE OF TWO DAYS YOU DEVELOP A COUGH THAT TEARS LIKE THE FIRST STAGES OF THE GRIPPE AND YOU SCARE THE MISSUS INTO MAKING THE SUPREME SACRIFICE IN ORDER TO FRAME AN ALIBI OF HEM-AND-HAWS AND THE NEXT MORNING YOU GET BACK ON YOUR REGULAR CIGARETTE DIET ONCE MORE AND YOU FINALLY DECIDE TO MAKE A PACKAGE OF OLD GOLDS YOUR REGULAR CIGARETTE DIET ONCE MORE AND YOU SCARE THE MISSUS INTO MAKING A BRILLIANT SUGGESTION THAT COUGH OF YOURS IS TERRIFIC, PETER. I THINK YOU OUGHT TO GET AWAY TO A WARMER CLIMATE FOR A COUPLE OF WEEKS AT PINEHURST AND THE NEXT MORNING YOU GET BACK ON YOUR REGULAR CIGARETTE DIET ONCE MORE.

OH-H-H- BOY!! AIN'T IT A GR-R-RAND AND GLOR-R-RIOUS FEELIN'? NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD OR A CLOUD IN THE SKY.