Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN September 27, 1928.

“THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday.
Anonymous articles will not be published.

BROWN - Editor-in-Chief
WELL - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor - AUBREY W. M. PO
Managing Editor - Editor
Managing Editor - Editor
Managing Editor - Editor
Managing Editor - Editor
Managing Editor - Editor
Managing Editor - Editor
Managing Editor - Editor
Managing Editor - Editor
Managing Editor - Editor
Managing Editor - Editor
Managing Editor - Editor
Managing Editor - Editor
Assistant Editor - Editor
Assistant Editor - Editor
Associate Editor - Editor
Associate Editor - Editor
Associate Editor - Editor
Associate Editor - Editor
Bus. Manager - Editor
Asst. Bus. Manager - Editor
Asst. Bus. Manager - Editor
Circulation Manager - Editor
Subscription Manager - Editor
Solicitor - Editor
Solicitor - Editor
Solicitor - Editor
Solicitor - Editor
Solicitor - Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President - Hse
Vice-President - W.
Secretary-Treasurer - S. H.
R. ALDERMAN
R. T. NUNAN
J. COKER
J. F. PRESTON
B. DUBOSE
W. C. RAGIN
F. D. RUSK
V. H. I. JR.
GRAHAM
C. A. SISSON
V. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
H. LONG
S. S. WILEY
P. McBRYDE
J. V. MIDDLETON

Thursday, September 27, 1928

The Davidsonian Wants
—a certain Wildcat to devour a certain Tiger on Saturday.
—more sophomores, juniors, and seniors to work on this publication.
—to commend the fraternities for instituting a shorter rushing season.
—to know why students don’t like to cast ballots in any kind of election.
—to know what good most of the honorary fraternities will do this year.
—freshmen to know that it is a custom to visit professors’ homes on Sunday nights.
—to express the desire that the student body will co-operate in the new manner of conducting chapel.
—to call attention to the fact that the state collegiate press convention will be held here within the next two
weeks.

FRESHMEN FAVOR THE BROWN DERBY TOO
Results of the “straw” vote held here last week are announced in other columns of this paper to have been
213-198 in favor of Governor Smith over Mr. Hoover. The purpose of this poll was not to give the ex-secretary
another chance to carry the student body, nor was there the purpose to attempt to have Davidsonians reiterate their favor
of the New York governor as they made expression last spring. There was the intention of determining, in conjunction with
hundreds of other American collegiate publications, just what had been the effect of political events of the past summer on
student opinion and also to determine just where Freshmen stand as compared with the Seniors who participated in the voting
last year.

But the past season, marked by heated political controversy and by determined expressions from press, pulpit, and assembly hall, seems
not to have brought about any great change in opinion. The influence of the South is reflected rather largely in
the vote as cast here even though Governor Smith carried only five represented states to Mr. Hoover’s twelve. The advent
of Senator Robinson to this campus just at the beginning of the term carried a number of the doubtful number
over to his side just as would Senator Curtis have made Republican supporters of the same number had he come
here.

As regards the Freshmen, they seem to express similar tendencies to members of the class of ’28. There is a
loss of 17 votes in the Smith column from the plurality gained in the former voting and so it appears
that Mr. Hoover stands better in the eyes of the new men than those of the exes. But Mr. Smith
is the choice of approximately 70 percent of the student body for the second time and this might indicate to
his campaign managers that the homes represented in the vote cast for him will, nine out of ten, be of
Democratic persuasion also.

FABRICATING SENIORS
Just why men who reach the stage of college Seniors should like to read such glowing, untruthful descriptions about themselves
as is contained in a typical annual write-up is a strange fact. It may be because it has been the
custom in previous years for those who are graduating to present the literary editor of “Quips and Cranks” with a
tale of their collegiate career that would do honor to the immortals that every Senior is encouraged to do likewise.
It is unbelievable that any one institution could be blessed with so many “wonderful characters,” “outstanding men of the campus,”
“leading men of the class,” “scholastic leaders” and “men who are sure to make their mark in the world” as
typical annuals indicate to be the case. Just what does an outsider think when he reads such as these, we
wonder. And with what degree of satisfaction does the one of whom the description is written re-read, in later years,
this portion of his biography?

The suggestion is made that the class of 1929 put an end to such by submitting simply a list of
honors and allowing the literary editor to append a fitting poetic expression, if such can be found in every case.
Other substitutions might be suggested and we are sure that the annual staff would be glad of a change, for
it would save an infinite amount of work in re-writing, typing, and other duties incidental thereto. A Senior could then,
with some sense of safety, show his section of “Quips and Cranks” and say, “That is true.”

PLEDGE PINS SHOW BETTER ON THE COAT LAPEL
The rushing season will be over in a few hours and rushees will repair to their rooms waiting to see
how many bids will be forthcoming, while Fraternity Court will be waiting in anxious anticipation. And then, there will be
disappointments. Some will wonder just what they did to cause them to fail to receive an invitation to join some
chapter and some will be surprised that they got a bid from one circle and not from another. The greatest
excitement will be, however, when the rushee goes to the house of his choice. This will be more interesting than
ever before here because of the proximity of the different houses to each other.

But after this speculation there is advice to the recipients of the bids. The handbook contains some excellent advice for
you that should be read. It is hereby endorsed without quoting: Don’t be hasty in acceptance but remember that you
are joining associates for your entire college career. They will be closer to you than any other group and will
influence you after their pattern. Be careful in your choice. Take your time. And don’t be disappointed if you don’t
get a bid.

“How can I make anti-freeze?”
“Hide her woolen pajamas.”—Columbia Jester.

“Where will you be at dinner time?”
“At dinner.”—Grinnell Malteaser.

“And why is he so snobbish?”
“Why, he was the first man in town to be run over by one of the new Fords.”—V. M. I.
Sniper.

I bet her she wouldn’t marry me and she called my bet and raised me five—W. & L. Mink.

Grace—“I did something last night that I’d never done before in my life.”
Joyce—“Gosh! I can’t imagine what it was.”

Hotchpot
The calendar informs us that fall is about two baseball weeks away. Some people may applaud the wane of summer,
but that must be because they have new fall topcoats, felt hats, long flannel underwear, downing pajamas, etc. We suppose
that these sagacious individuals might be compared to busy ants here on the campus, who, foraging thriftily in the grass,
employ the length of summer days in providing against winter privation. However industrious these insects are, we never could bring
ourselves to admire one. In fact, we can often be found at the boarding-house table, swatting nimble specimens with our
fork. If they should ever elect us college entomologist and graminologist, our first official act would be to requisition the
President — who is known to dote on graminology — for several tank cars of kerosene to pour down ant
holes on our campus.

But, aside from politics, this article is supposed to be a protest against the shift of seasons on the ground
that many of us, like grasshoppers, who loll and spat in the summer sun, are not prepared to embrace fall
yet a while. Lots of us haven’t paid for last year’s suit; some haven’t passed last semester’s tickets; others are
ashamed to look the Treasurer in the eye. We might rally the irresponsibles and file a protest with the Ow!
Club, which was instituted to serve the rich and poor alike, we are sure. If summer might be prolonged for
several months here, hundreds of us, including professors, could wear the straw hats and linen suits we bought at a
reduction. We bought an excellent He hat for fifty cents, while sport oxfords and flannel trousers are going for a
song. Down at Goodrums, the choice flannels, in all probability, are already disposed of. A first come, first serve policy,
likely. Now that may be all right for Johnnies-on-the-spot, but what about the laggards... have we no rights?

With both parties asking for a $4,000,000 campaign fund this talk of cheap politics goes glimmering. It is of strong
interest to “dopesters,” looking forward to the election in November to analyze and evaluate the status of the parties in
the 48 states. A survey of the federal senate shows 17 states whose two senators are republicans and 17 whose
two senators are democrats. There are 14 states with divided delegations, 13 having a senator from each major party, and
the other state, Minnesota, having one republican and one farmer-laborite. That situation gives the republicans 48 Senators, or just one-half
of the body, the democrats having 47 and the farmer-laborite, Shipstead, figuring as “the lone fisherman of the assembly.”

In the house of representatives is found a different state of ratios. There are 15 states with solid republican delegations
totaling 56 members; 11 states with solid democrat delegations totaling 78 members; 22 states with divided delegations showing 181 republicans,
117 democrats, 2 farmer-laborites and 1 socialist. The totals of the republicans and democrats are 237 and 195, respectively.

If the congressmen, now in office, are indicative of the way the states will go in November, 27 states would
vote republican, 19 democratic, and 2, Colorado and Montana, would be divided. As yet, however, it is anybody’s guess which
party it will be.

Young Mr. Coolidge steadfastly declines to answer the inquiries of reporters: Are you to go to work? Are you to
be married? If heanswered the latter question he would answer both, W. K. P. “If caught by traffic in the
middle of the street, the best thing to do is to stand still,” says an expert. And if time permits,
scribble a farewell message on the back of a visiting card.—Annapolis Log.

When Cupid hits the mark he usually Mrs. it—Penn. Punch Bowl.

Absent-minded professor — “Yes, I did call for you, but I can’t remember why.”
Absent-minded plumber—“That’s all right; I forgot my tools anyway.”—Wisconsin Octopus.

From the Bingville Bugle
The fire department decided not to answer the alarm Monday night, as it was raining pretty hard. Only one house
was burned as there were not any others on that block.—Ex.

Current Comment
In some of the storms of last week the winds were reported to have attained the unusual velocity of 145
miles per hour. That's speed. But worse than that terrific speed is the high water and diseases which follow, and
which take such a high toll of human lives. Florida and the other storm-swept localities need help which the Red
Cross is competently giving. But the Red Cross in turn has to have support from the public. Do your part.

The negro stowaway on Commander Byrd’s flagship “The City of New York” was found to be physically unfit for such
a trip. Furthermore, he has a police record, so Byrd’s expedition continues without any representative of the colored race.

The U. S. suctors and prohibition laws are probably the ones most commonly broken by the general run of citizens.
Last week Flo Ziegfeld and a Mr. Wagner, whose brother is a Senator, were fined $614 for trying to smuggle
148 bottles of whiskey, brandy, and ale in from Canada. At about the same time Lawyer Steuer of New York
paid over five thousand dollars on duties and fines for an improper customs declaration which his wife made. And now
Steuer is planning to subtract his fine from his income tax. In these two cases, the officials were on the
job. And in Philadelphia, they are trying to clean up. But a comparatively large amount of crime and law-breaking goes
on nevertheless.

Statistics say that before prohibition went into effect there were in the United States 177,790 saloons, 1,090 breweries, and 237
distilleries. Official figures for 1928 are lacking, but we have an idea that these figures haven’t quite faded to zero.

A rival for Maggie has been found in New Hampshire. Helen Bernaby, a college student, recently established a record by
throwing a rolling pin 90 feet 8 inches.

In Great Britain at the meeting of the Merchant Tailors’ Federation, the guest of honor proposed the fig leaf as
an emblem for the organization. Continuing he said, “I suggest more color in men’s clothes... May we live to see
a scarlet morning coat worn with fig-leaf-green trousers and a canary waistcoat.” Such a combination might do well as distinctive
regalia for Seniors in place of last year's blazers, but for red-blooded men in general.

There is a movement on foot in New York to extend the “whispering campaign” to back-seat drivers.

At the Grand Prix Course in Italy, Materassi, famed racer, roared toward victory at 120 miles per hour when his
car swerved and crashed into the grandstand, killing 21 spectators besides Materassi, and injuring many others. After an official investigation
the Papacy stated, “Again human victims to the greedy idol of the new religion, the religion of speed... Meanwhile true
virtues are forgotten. Many no longer are content to arrive, but find it necessary to arrive quickly... This is the
saddest profanation of human life.” Mussolini would hardly win approval from the Pope on this question, since he likes to
travel over Italy in his “low, rakish bellowing speed car.”

Some people seem to have all the luck. A marine pilot flying over Nicaragua made a forced landing and in
doing so his pontoon dug a furrow in the earth. Corporal Cole, who was left to guard the plane, passed
away the time by panning out $100 worth of gold from a vein exposed by the furrow.

We aren't superstitious, but Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley were all shot on Friday.

Last week a New York Stock Exchange seat sold for $415,000 which is a new high mark. The previous record
was made last May when a seat sold for $398,000. There are only 1,100 members but no indication has been
given that the membership may be increased. And meanwhile Al Smith is making plans for using the 53 rooms in
the White House.

J. L. B.

Highbrow—“You are a pauper.”
Lowbrow—“Hurrah! Is it a boy or a girl?”—Green Goat.

WANTON WILES THE BULL PEN
Willie Shakespeare, R. Burns, or whoever it was that said “Brevity is the soul of wit” was no doubt OKMNX
in his statement. But one thing certain—he wasn’t a newspaper columnist. Especially of a college newspaper; where the risque is
censored and the un-risque is not read. Bull is the soul of this column. Bull is the heart of this
column. In fact, this column is all bull (as if you were hearing something you didn’t know already). But why
not look on the bright side of life: you don’t have to read this, and the printer does. Still he’s
not so bad off—suppose you had to think of it, write it up, re-write it, get parts of it (the
best parts) cut out. And then take all the blame for it not being fit to read. Ah, but virtue
is its own reward!

We publish below a letter of appreciation, received this past week. How flattered we are that someone reads this column.
The letter:

Dear Editor,
Have just finished reading the D. G. N.’s (Davidson’s Greatest Newspaper) first Bull Pen. Your jokes have improved my health
more than a dozen bottles of Frog Foot Juice ever did. They made me young again. In fact, they carried
me back to my cradle days: when I used to kick the slats of my cradle laughing at them. They’re
so stylish (Editor’s Note: Antiques are all the rage this season). Before enjoying this wonderful rejuvenation I could hardly lift
a broom. Now my niblick shots are marvelous. My eyes used to be so weak I couldn’t read a cookbook.
Since last week I have read all the book reviews on Sir Walter Scott’s latest novels and all of the
real uplifting literature of the ancients, including Eleanor Glynn’s works of art. Just one week ago I couldn’t play one
game of rook with the children. Since then I have been to ten bridge parties and won four first prizes.

Yours in preference to Lydia E. Pinkham,
Mrs. Vanderbilt.

P. S.: I am sending a life-size picture of myself which you may print if you so desire.

There, we knew someone in this solemn world could appreciate real wit. Any further letters of appreciation or any material
or suggestions for this column will be gladly accepted by the Feature Editor. Five dollars ($5.00) will be paid for
a good joke which will cover one column.

Yours till the wets dry up,
B. U. L. Moore, Editor.

ON THE TOMBSTONE OF A DENTIST
Stranger, approach this spot with gravity,
John Brown is filling his last cavity.

OUR OWN DEFINITIONS
FORD:—Masc., A name, belonging to the richest man in the world.
Neut., A car, belonging to the poorest men in the world.
Fem., A neuter Ford two or more years old. It rattles all the time.

WHO AM I?
I own a big imported sport roadster. I’m a member of the best fraternity at school, and no affair is
a success unless I’ve had a hand in its making. I’m the big “cheese” in my class and very popular
among both sexes. The lowly Frosh are always writhing under the most laughable stunts I can think of. I wear
striped knickers, gaudy golf socks, and a shirt with an open collar. Of course, I have dark curly chestnut hair,
and smoke a pipe. The girls are just wild to get a date with me because I have the reputation
of being a woman-hater and a heavenly dancer. I’ve won many football games by scoring points in the last few
minutes of play, and, as stroke, I never fail to set the winning pace. I’ve letters in all the sports
at college. Every day I go to class and get the highest marks and am considered the hardest worker in
school. At night I work as a janitor and in the morning I drive a milk wagon to earn money
for my tuition. I guess you wonder who I am. Well, I'll tell you. I'm the college “big shot” in
the movies.
—Temple News.

FAMED FAIRY TALE STARTS
Once upon a time there was a golfer who actually told the truth—yeah, honest, this is straight. He called a
fellow golfer a liar.

OF ALL SAD WORDS OF TONGUE OR PEN
Once I was single—my pockets did jingle,
But now that I’m married—Well,
Ask the man that owns one.

Say, where did you get that ten, Willbeaux?
Borrowed it from Thomas, Jawn.
I thought he was tight, Willbeaux.
So he was, Jawn.

VISIONS
In dreams I feel the soft caress
Of lush, green fronds of fern that press
To hedge a dark pool's loveliness.
In dreams I hear the sobbing sigh
Of tall pines reared athwart the sky
When summer breezes whisper by.
In dreams I see a quiet bay,
Translucent, where the slant beams play,
In amber, at the close of day.
In dreams I scent sweet, odorous blooms
That blow in deep, ambrosial glooms,
Amethyst dusk of moss-walled rooms.
I dream of Beauty's every hue
From saffron dawn to star-pierced blue;
I wake: and all my dream is you!
—Frank Hatt.

TRUE EPITAPHS
Major General Scott Neil,
Accidentally shot and killed by his orderly,
March 3, 1921.
“Well done, thou good and faithful servant.”

ADD SIMILES
As plentiful as boarding house managers in September.

NOTICE! NOTICE! NOTICE!
All readers of this column are invited to attend the Policeman’s Carnival of Davidson on next Friday afternoon. The Davidson
Police Force Band will furnish the music. The revelers will be entertained with numerous games, including solitaire, tiddle-winks and some
of less rough nature. Come one, come all!

When I was single,
My pockets did jingle.
But now that I’m married—
Well,
Ask the man that owns one!
