Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN December 6, 1928.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not be published.

AUBREY ........................................ Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POV .................................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
F. D. MILLER ............................ Managing Editor
C. M. PRATT ............................... Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT .......................... Editor
Z. V. LONG .................................. Editor
V. A. MILTON ............................ Editor
P. U. OBER .................................. Editor
D. P. ANDERSON ...................... Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN .................. Editor
J. L. BROWN ............................... Editor
C. R. MORIARITY ...................... Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT .................... Editor

Solicitors:
P. R. ALDERMAN
J. F. PRESTON
C. H. DuBOSE
R. GRAHAM
W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
S. H. LONG
S. S. WILEY
J. P. McBRYDE
J. V. D. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1928

The Davidsonian Wants:
—every man to pledge himself liberally to the Y. M. C. A. Mission Fund tonight.
—someone to make provision for an adequate field house for the physical education works.
—to commend Captain Pritchett for his popularizing required exercise for upperclassmen.
—a new infirmary so that the inability to care for the patients there as during the past two weeks will be removed.

REACHING OUT
Not satisfied with a full schedule of activity in the interests of the student body and not content with stepping into nearby sections and spreading Davidson’s influence, the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet is now sponsoring a movement which will give of Davidson to those in the Orient.

For three years this organization, backed liberally by the student body, supported Warren Cox, who was a professor in chemistry at Hangchow Christian College, called by some, “The Davidson of China.” Last year, a different movement was conducted by the Mission Committee when sufficient funds were raised to send twenty mountain boys to the splendid Lees-McRae Institute at Banner Elk, N. C., for training.

Davidsonians have always delighted in entering into this mission enterprise wholeheartedly and this year should prove no exception. Going back to the field of foreign missions, the task is to raise one thousand dollars for the support of one of this institution’s most illustrious sons, Frank W. Price, in his work in China. A leading man on the campus while here and a highly successful worker since then, Mr. Price is accomplishing remarkable work in the Orient.

Here, again is a worthy movement calling for the unreserved support of every student —and any others who would like to have a part. Pledges will be made tonight and every man is urged to back the “Y” in this, another of its many splendid undertakings.

PUT A STAMP ON IT
With the approach of the Christmas Season comes again the sale of the familiar seals representing an undertaking which the American public has recognized as important and to which people have contributed freely during past years. The task is the stamping out, literally, of tuberculosis throughout the country. Thousands of persons afflicted with the disease are too poor to bear the necessary expense for the treatment. Just as many, perhaps, are seeking admission to state institutions where the cure is given. Great strides have been made within the past decade in the handling of the disease and it may well be thought that much of the success is due to the revenue derived from the sale of Christmas seals. An opportunity will be given for everyone to purchase these stickers soon when announcements are made by students in charge. Get out that loose change and put a stamp on the outgoing letters from now until Christmas.

EVERYBODY GETS THE EXERCISE
For the recent steps taken toward giving the word Athletics a new meaning, we wish to commend the athletic directors heartily. If the idea can be changed from a possibility into actuality, that athletics and the athletic program of a college exist for the purpose of aiding and offering recreation to the entire body of students—rather than for a mere handful of the students, it will be one of the best reforms that could possibly be effected upon any college campus in this country.

We have always imagined that the theory upon which the athletic program is based, is to provide exercise and mental relaxation for all of the students. If this be so, athletics has been a failure. There is always a thimble-full of the students of any college interested in athletics. But that interest is in athletics as an activity and not as exercise. This negligible number have two views of athletics. First, there is the group seeing athletics as glory. Not instantaneous, but fame achieved before all of their fellows, after varying periods of drudgery, and practice. The glory may be for the dear old alma mater, or may be quite a bit more personal. Another group sees athletics as a means of going to college (not necessarily as securing an education).

Science has done many things, but it has never shown how man may live without at least a minimum of exercise and care of the body. Seeing this, the Davidson authorities have constituted an athletic program, whereby each student is compelled to take a nominal amount of exercise regularly. This calls to mind the story of the mule who would not be pulled to take a drink. Prizes are now being offered for students showing the most development and for excellence in any one of a number of fields. Most of the students realize the absolute necessity of taking exercise, but they seem to lack the final incentive necessary to their fulfilling of this realization. We sincerely hope that this, the most recent development in athletics at Davidson, will succeed; that the college will become interested; and that the benefits promised will indeed materialize.
—C. M. P.

Another very useful book of the year is entitled “How to Study.” We use it as a paperweight.

An exchange’s idea of holding the line is when a ninety-eight-pound co-ed can keep a 210-pound football tackle on a telephone conversation for over an hour.

Current Comment
By John Brown

Hotchpot
By Kendrick Pritchett

WANTON WILES
By Dave Anderson

Now that Thanksgiving is a thing of the past for this year, it won't be long until the twentieth. But before that comes the celebrated Junior Revue, so we can count the days until the fifteenth instead of until Christmas.

In China, a $1,800,000 contract has been let to a Chicago company for the installation of a telephone system in the capital of the Nationalist State. Such an installation will mean much to the progress of China under its new regime.

The Dictator President of Chile has ordered that all gambling establishments but one be closed immediately. The lone exception is the famed seaside resort at Vina del Mar, where the roulette wheel is allowed to spin under Presidential sanction. This order will seem to many of the natives a parallel case of our prohibition law, but to the lone exception it will be a means of quick and profuse riches.

We wonder just what kind of flower of Oklahoma is the state mistletoe.

The present stock exchange tickers seem to be behind their times. Transactions are carried on so rapidly on the exchange that the tickers get as much as two hours behind. Last Friday the volumes were not included on the ticker, but even then it was 49 minutes slow.

We are told that only seven people out of a million are ever struck by lightning. But when they are struck—. There's a reason for its never striking the same place twice. That place just isn’t there after the first stroke.

Scientists are working on a scheme by which milk will be produced in powdered form. If this is accomplished and the morning milk-man is done away with, who will welcome the younger generation home after the dance?

On December 17, 1903, Orville Wright, at Kitty Hawk, N. C., made the first airplane flight in history. The results of the work of the Wright brothers and other pioneers of aviation can be seen on every hand. This week at Chicago a hundred million dollar commercial aviation exposition is being held. Two weeks from now the silver anniversary of the first flight will be celebrated, but the historic plane is in London, 3,000 miles away, instead of in the Smithsonian Institute, all because of the jealousy of a few who refuse to recognize the priority of the Wrights’ plane. That first flight was over only 120 feet of ground and lasted only 12 seconds. Since then various planes have crossed the Atlantic, Pacific and Arctic Oceans. They have risen as high as 38,418 feet, stayed aloft 65 hours, 25 minutes, traveled 4,466 miles without landing, reached the speed of 319 miles per hour. Are not these very creditable developments for only 25 years of airplane life?

Chrysler Corporation has merged with the Commercial Credit Company of Baltimore. They will probably soon develop a plan whereby every college student may own a new “75" by means of installment payments.

Another way in which you might waste your time is in telling a freshman what would be good for him.

The latest Government reports indicate a steady increase in the consumption of cigarettes in the United States. The production in 1927 was approximately 97,000,000,000. This would figure out that in the United States last year nearly 185,000 cigarettes were lighted every minute and in the first eight months of this year more than 203,000 cigarettes have been consumed every minute. The Government receives from this source of taxation not far from $300,000,000. The Government also reports that the three principal manufacturers of cigarettes last year spent as much as $60,000,000 in advertising. Their outlay for 1928 for this purpose will not be far from $75,000,000.

A professor of the psychology department...

THE BULL PEN
We are getting as popular as Lydia E. Pinkham these days. One of our readers from Atlanta (Ga.) writes in, sending a picture of himself, and informs us that many prominent undertakers will be there next Saturday for the Georgia-Georgia Tech game.Undertaker friends must be going down to see the boys kick-off, reckon? Another reader, from that unusual country where men are men and women are women (funny, ain't it? We'd like to visit there) says that reading this column has brought about a remarkable change in his life: We are modest, though, and won't take all the credit, was half-crazy to start with. Other letters clamor for something humorous in this column, no sooner said than done. To accommodate all desires for something “funny,” we have made special arrangements to have a life-size picture of The Bull Pen artist himself, in person, to be run on this page in some early issue of the Davidsonian. (Chiat nas oe ask we fooled you... The Davidsonian never “early” that’s against the religious, moral, and other principles (if any) of the Managing Editors, the Business Staff, and the Sophomore Assistants).

WHO’S WHO AT DAVIDSON
(Editor's Note: This section runs for the benefit of those whose vanity urges them to read this to see if they are classed among the notorious.)

The Department of Cornell has trained oysters to jump for food at their feeding time. We always had a suspicion at church suppers that the oyster jumped from one bowl of stew to another.

Mr. Anthony Praga, well-known historian, records the fact that Franz Schubert earned only $2,500 from his many songs, operas, symphonies, etc. That was the reward of genius—the wages that enabled genius to live and also enabled it to die. And the crime was committed in an age and in a nation which held that not to love and know good music was to be outside civilization. Disappointed in love, poverty-stricken, ill most of his life, Schubert died a hundred years ago at the age of 31. With half of his music unuttered, Schubert ended as ended one of his own great works—unfinished.

If there is a Scotch railroad president he has probably sent Colonel Lindbergh a life pass.

The French language has been found wanting. There is no single word in the language to designate a citizen of the United States. We are called by the same adjective which applies to the people of both of the American continents. Is it not a singular anomaly that the French language, which is so rich, supple, and shaded, has no word to designate the inhabitants of the United States? We suggest that they have recourse to J. Joyce and Anita Loos.

Advertisement in Savannah newspaper: The bootleggers who have been unloading and distributing whiskey on my premises, incidentally setting fire to my woods, may take notice that if they don’t stop it I will.

Dr. Raymond Pearl of the Johns Hopkins biological department, writing in The American Mercury, calls the prohibition law “our national silk hat.” The only conclusion which he finds himself able to draw is that we as a people want to have both prohibition laws and available liquor. He writes: “The silk hat, considered as a hat, is a poor and ridiculous thing. Why, then, do Englishmen generally wear it? For a simple reason. Expensive as silk hats are, they still offer the cheapest of all known ways to achieve the outward semblance of respectability.”

“Brown eyes indicate a weak will,” states an oculist. Black ones probably indicate a strong will.

OPEN FORUM
N. D. BUSHES B.S. 3 in Fresh Math Alpha Sigma Sigma; “E” Club; Pressing Club; Asst. Manager Sull Team (four years). Here is a man characteristically “different” and hence deserves a biography entirely different from the ordinary. We will write a true biography. He came to Jaybirdsville four years ago (quite unusual), hailing from a small town in the mountains. In his stay here he has proved himself to be a true Wildcat. Quiet, reserved, but the staunchest of friends. As a student, there are few in his class. As he leaves us to take his fling at the cold, cruel world, we feel sure his career will be marked “A success.” None can take his place. None will.

“All men have their faults.”—Goldsmith.

OUR OWN DEFINITIONS
Popularity: Being one of the eight or ten girls in the cast of the Junior Class Revelries after the “show” that night. P.S. “Rumor has it that the cast are nobody’s gold bricks for looks.”

Honors: Let the critics rage.

EIGHT IN LINE
A small portion of the weekend mob, returning ten deep in a taxi from Charlotte. Voice from the third row down, rear seat shouts out: “Hey, somebody’s stepping on my toe and I think it’s me!”

TRUE STORIES
It is Wednesday—the time, one-thirty-five. Hungry students gather in the boarding house following a strenuous Wednesday morning drill—only to find the same old menu, beans a la grits with the et ceteras. Irate student, wishing to complain about the groceries, calls to a waiter in a voice filled with vexation: “Say, where’s one of the managers of this boarding house?” The waiter, in a nonchalant manner acquired only after lighting five boxes of Murads, solemnly informs the inquirer that all the managers of that boarding house eat at the cafe.

It is not the purpose of this column to give comments or suggestions on either books or motion pictures. Our readers can obtain worse motion picture and book reviews than we are capable of giving at any magazine stand—for one nickel. But we would like to remind our patrons that they should not fail to read “The Bridge of San Luis Rey.” One thing we will say of it:—you will enjoy it more and will acquire a better and higher literary taste from the reading of it than from what you are now reading.

ADD SIMILES
He was worse off than a one-legged man as official kicker for a night club.

“When you kiss the lips of the girl you love, As you leave her at the door. You wonder in spite of all you can do, Has she been kissed that way before?” Yes.

Short stories in the news: The news from London is that bobbed hair is now unfashionable in England. Oberlin college girl bets cake-eater she can sit on railroad track longer than he. Girl wins bet. Girl's pa pays hospital bill.

WHY NOT THIS?
Mr. Editor: What will the Seniors give to the College this year? That question, while not pressing, deserves the consideration of those who are to make the gift. Suggestions have been made, some seriously and others in a frivolous way. Every graduating class has intended giving something that, if not principally useful, would at least be noticeable on the campus. This is because the Seniors cannot afford to give the big things the College needs, and do not wish to give something below their taste. They have been trying to strike a pleasant medium and have not exactly succeeded. The class this year will do the same unless a proposal comes forward to relieve them of this unhappy experience.

Davidson is a school of liberal arts. Her ambition, her “raison d'être” is, not only to imbue the lives of men with the right attitude toward culture by familiarizing them with each phase of it, but to inspire them to cultural achievements. With this in view, one might justly inquire into the neglect of one important phase of culture. And this neglect is common in most colleges. Why have they failed to acquaint their students with actual art: paintings and sketches which ought to hang in a hall provided for them, where students can become familiar with them, and learn to love this fundamental art? In the past there have been neither time nor money; but now we may ask, why continue to fail in this respect? Davidson ought to have her Art Gallery, even though it has a small beginning. The Seniors can start it in one of several ways. They can purchase the first painting, they can aid in equipping the gallery, or they can set aside a sum that will initiate a movement for the art collection. Any method they use will be original, the starting of something greater. And this gift will have permanent value and will grow as the years go by. It will open to the students here a vista of their lives which previously has been dark. Few of them have ever seen, or will ever see an original creation of a master in oils, ink, or pencil. They should have that pleasant experience here at Davidson and it will lead on to more. Why not an Art Gallery Fund, or an oil painting?

G. T. Preer.

VIEWS AND REVIEWS
By Chatham Clark

Of course, it is not the newest of books, but the name is just too suggestive to let the chance slip to read it. BAD GIRL, by Vina Delmar. However, when you have read it we think you will agree that had you spent that time playing Old Maids you would feel better repaid. This book is purely trash, and if it contains any moral, which would be its only redeeming feature, it is too low to detect. You will find this authoress writing in “Liberty” which is about her speed. Should you buy one of these magazines containing one of her stories, you will agree that this is about as much bunk for the money as most bargains afford.

It has about reached the point that to find a good clean wholesome book is a rarity. This is not true, however, among many of our older writers. For an example, try that old story by Florence Barclay, THE FOLLOWING OF THE STAR. This is well written and contains beautiful language.

Another book much under discussion is POINT COUNTER POINT. From reading two of its outstanding chapters (probably the only two) the term WARM could easily be applied. The Atlantic Monthly, the publishers, however, see fit to give it two pages of advertisement, to what criticism could be offered.

Most favorable comments have been made about FAREWELL TO YOUTH, by Storm Jameson, one of the newest of the seven-day books in our library. CLEOPATRA, by Claude-Ferval, to be reviewed later.