THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1928

STATESVILLE AND LOUISVILLE ALUMNI ELECT NEW OFFICIALS AT ENTHUSIASTIC GATHERINGS

Alumni at Louisville Entertain Wives and Friends—Statesville Alumni Discuss Need for Increase in College Enrollment

Davidson College alumni, permanently or temporarily residing in Louisville, Ky., held their annual meeting Monday night at the Kentucky Hotel
in that city. It was in the form of a dinner, and an unusual feature was that the wives and
friends of the alumni were guests. The officers who had served during the past year were re-elected. They are Rev.
Thornton Whaling, D.D., ’77, president; Rev. R. M. Pegram, ‘11, vice-president, and R. G. White, ’25, secretary-treasurer. Dr. Whaling, as
president, presided and after extending a warm welcome to the alumni and their guests, discussed “Davidson College as Viewed by
an Alumnus.” He cited some striking features about the college, mentioning the loyalty of the alumnus, the breadth of the
college, the loyalty of Davidson to its own ideals as a college of the highest grade, and told about the
growth of the institution. Capt. C. E. Hodgin, Jr., '24, of the Kentucky Military Institute at Lyndon, Ky., talked on
the subject, “What Davidson Did for Me;” C. V. Brown, ’24, spoke on “What I Can Do for Davidson” and
A. M. Martin, ’25, closed with “Humor at Home at Davidson.” The association as a unit passed a unanimous resolution
of loyalty to the college.

At Statesville

A small but enthusiastic group of Davidson alumni in Iredell county also held their meeting at Statesville Monday night, the
principal purpose being the election of officers. Karl Sherrill, ’12, was elected president; J. B. Chadian, ’01, vice-president, and J.
H. Gentry, ’13, secretary-treasurer. The alumni were of the opinion that they should play a larger part in getting students
of the highest type to attend Davidson, and the president appointed a committee composed of J. W. DeArmon, '24; J.
B. Johnston, ’01; J. H. Gentry, ’13, and J. A. Scott, ’11, to interview graduating students in the Iredell county
schools, and urge them to choose Davidson. During the evening the question of the size of Davidson in the future
arose. The consensus of opinion was that a problem is arising regarding the sons of alumni, and because Davidson was
forced to refuse admittance to so many applicants each year, the Statesville alumni felt that the institution must expand—like a
business. They agreed that it should be a gradual increase, so that the students can be assimilated properly.

The Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Mr. Charles Alanson Young, '24, of New York City, was married to Miss Suzanne Becker, daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Frederick W. Becker, of New York, on Friday evening, March 9th, in the city of their residence. Mr. Young is
now in the employ of the New York Bell Telephone Company, having been engaged in this work since his graduation
at Davidson five years ago. With his bride, he will make his home at 449 Mountainview Avenue, Orange, New Jersey.

Mr. W. A. Elliott, '00, was married to Miss Barbara Graf, of Washington, at Baltimore on March 22nd, according to
an announcement received this week by the alumni office. Mr. Elliott, who is located in Washington, D. C., will continue
to reside in that city, where he and his bride have made their home.

Dr. Geo. H. Cornelson, Noted Minister of Southern Presbyterian Church, Dies After Long and Useful Life

Dr. George H. Cornelson, graduate of Davidson College in the class of 1892, died of pneumonia at his home in
New Orleans, March 5th, according to news recently received by officials of the alumni office. Dr. Cornelson’s body was carried
from New Orleans to Clinton, S. C., where funeral services were conducted on March 7th. A native of Orangeburg, S.
C., Dr. Cornelson attended Davidson College from 1889 until 1892 when he received his diploma. He later attended Columbia Theological
Seminary at which institution he received his B.D. degree. Davidson College awarded him a Doctor of Divinity degree some years
afterwards. A recent edition of the Concord Tribune declared that “the name of Dr. George Cornelson is one of the
most illustrious in that comparatively large group of the more popular ministers of the Southern Presbyterian Church. A keen student
of the Bible and a gifted orator, Dr. Cornelson was responsible for many conversions to Christ. He always spoke as
he thought, and what he thought seemed to have an inspired instinct for that one thing that would be typical
of the whole—the essential thing. Because of his accurate voicing of the teachings of Christ, he was beloved by all
who heard him. He was universally known as one of the potent factors in the development and growth of the
Southern Presbyterian Church.” During his years as a minister, Dr. Cornelson held pastorates at Concord, N. C., Malvern, Ark., Aiken,
S. C., Nashville, Tenn., and New Orleans.

For Heating and Plumbing Contractor of Rare Excellence See Elliott & Byers Phone 78-W

TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE!
We have at all times a complete stock of
New Orthophonic Victrolas
Brunswick Panatropes
Victor and Brunswick Records
New Records Every Friday
Complete Line of RCA Radios from $69.50 to $895.
Parker-Gardner Co.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

FELLOWS!
You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Reports which declared that John S. McRae, '27, had returned to America from Smyrna, Greece, as a result of serious
illness, were proved false this week when McRae stopped in Paris on his way to New York. His illness was
slight, and his return to the United States was due to a report to New York where he will renew
his duties. Dr. Frank A. Sharpe, '27, now teaching and coaching at Woodboro, has been elected president of the staff
of St. Leo's Hospital in that city. During his visit, most of the patients handled by this hospital called for
surgical operations.No serious break in his health. After a brief period of rest, McRae will resume his work as an
employee of the Alston Tobacco Co., probably remaining in America. His friends among the alumni of the college will be
gratified to learn that his condition is not as serious as first reported.

During the past year, a total of 1,848 patients were Davidson alumni who were seen at the high school track
meet here last Saturday. They were J.B. Johnston, '07, Barium Springs; J. W. McAlister, '19, Greensboro; L. A. Wilkinson, '13,
Charlotte; Dr. D. H. Nisbet, '13, Charlotte; Ralph McMillan, '26, Barium Springs; R. L. Mitchell and W. M. Treverton, both
1927 graduates at Rockingham.

Dr. R. P. Smith, '73, treasurer of the Asheville Presbytery and a moving spirit in religious circles of western North
Carolina, has been chosen to deliver the commencement sermon at Murphy, N.C., on April 1st.

Dr. Addison Brenizer of Charlotte to Speak on Surgery Friday at 7:30

The establishment of a psychiatric institute, to be located at Hillcrest Manor, Asheville, and to function as distinct from any
other hospital or sanitarium, was recently announced. The attending staff of the new psychiatric institute includes among its membership five
Davidson alumni, namely, Drs. G. H. Croom, '07; Bernard Smith, '06; J. L. Sprunt, '06; L. G. Beall, '00; and
J. H. McConnell.

Dr. Addison Brenizer, a noted surgeon of Charlotte and a well-known and popular doctor throughout the state, will speak to
the men of Davidson who are interested in surgery, in Shearer Hall, on Friday night at 7:30. Dr. Brenizer is
a recognized authority in his line of surgery and will have a message for those considering medicine as a life
work. He is supercharged with a positive faith in the latent possibilities of students and has a keen desire as
well as an unusual ability for helping young men. Dr. Brenizer will be the closing speaker of the six-weeks’ session
of the Vocational Guidance Institute. The Vocational Guidance has been under the supervision of the local Y.M.C.A. and has been
of inestimable value to the students. It has brought many of the most outstanding men of leading professions to help
men perplexed with the question of a life work. It has presented the Ministry through Dr. Ben R. Lacy, president
of Union Theological Seminary, of Richmond, Va.; Business, through Mr. H. S. Richardson, one of the manufacturers of Vick’s Salve;
Law, through Mr. W. S. Parker, and Medicine, through Dr. W. S. Davison. These men of wide experience, and among
those who stand at the forefront in their various fields of service, have been of invaluable aid to the many
men who have attended the sessions. Vocational Guidance at Davidson has proved practical, helpful, and profitable, and it is the
“Y’s” purpose to continue it in coming years.

Elon College, Feb. 6. (CP)—The heads of the Education faculties of the North Carolina colleges will meet in annual session
at Elon College on February 11. This organization is headed by Dr. John H. Cook of the N.C.C.W. faculty and
comes to Elon College this year upon the invitation of Prof. O. W. Johnson, head of the Education Department of
Elon.

Mr. John A. Scott, '11, for the past year executive secretary of the Presbyterian Council of North Carolina, has been
appointed to the home mission committee of the Presbytery. His death will be mourned by a wide circle of friends
and relatives throughout the South, as well as by the students, faculty, and trustees of Davidson College, of which he
was ever a loyal alumnus.

J. E. McQueen, '20, and R. U. Woods, '23, who recently formed a new corporation of McQueen and Woods, will
be ready to distribute their new product, the “Queenwood Curvlamp” about April 5th. The new invention is a light which
is placed in the front center of a car, throwing a light forty feet ahead, and which is so attached
it faces the direction in which the wheels are turned.

Following the supper, the conference will go into its regular session for the discussion of two main topics, the preparation
of Elementary and High School teachers, and the part the universities should have in training teachers. Dr. Thomas J. Wilson,
Jr., of the University of North Carolina will lead the discussion on this latter subject.
