SUMAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 2, 1928 No. 17

DR. F. W. SHEPARDSON, PROMINENT FRATERNITY MAN, IS RECENT GUEST
Speaks to Faculty Committee on Fraternities During Short Stay—Gives Enthusiastic Comments About Davidson

“I have visited more than 240 colleges and universities during my lifetime, but I know of no other college or university which has impressed me so profoundly, or filled me with such an overwhelming sense of reverence and admiration as has Davidson,” asserted Dr. Francis W. Shepardson, of Chicago, prominent educator and fraternity official, during a visit here Monday, January 23rd.

Dr. Shepardson, an outstanding authority on college fraternities, was at one time head of the Department of History at the University of Chicago, which position he resigned to become a member of the staff of United States Senator Frank O. Lowden during the time the latter was Governor of Illinois. Senator Lowden is being mentioned as a possible nominee on the Republican ticket for President. In case Lowden should be elected President it is believed that he would choose Dr. Shepardson as Secretary of State. Dr. Shepardson was one of the founders of the Inter-fraternity Council of America and for many years its president. He was executive head of the Phi Beta Kappa national honorary scholastic fraternity for several years and is now president of the Beta Theta Pi national social fraternity. He was editor of the last edition of “Baird’s Manual,” an authority on fraternity rating and standing.

After a visit to Atlanta, where he spoke to a gathering of deans and presidents of Southern colleges and universities, Dr. Shepardson spoke here to the members of the (Continued on page 5)

Davidson Debaters Complete Schedule
As the second semester of the college year begins, the Davidson debating teams are making their final preparations for the scheduled meets with the teams from other colleges. The only new addition to the schedule that has not been previously announced is a debate with William and Mary College, to be held at Mitchell College, February 29th. Davidson will be represented by Frank Hall and Carl Pritchett on the affirmative side of the query, “Resolved, That the United States should cease to protect property invested in foreign lands.”

The schedule proper, which has been formerly announced, will open on February 8th with the debate against the University of Florida, here. Leo K. Pritchett and Bob Kell will represent Davidson. On the 23rd of the same month, Laurence Murray and Christian Dumas will go to Queens to meet Rutgers. These three debates will be held so close to home that many will be permitted to hear all three. Bob Grady and W. K. Pritchett leave on the 12th of the month for the Northern trip. During this trip they will debate Hampden-Sydney there, on the 13th; George Washington University on the 14th, and Pittsburgh on the 15th. Henry Powell and Tyree Dillard will represent Davidson on the Southern trip, which will begin on the 20th. They will debate Florida in a return debate on the 21st, Sewanee on the 23rd, and Emory on the 24th.

Davidson Will Sponsor Annual Track-Meet for All State High Schools
Cream of High School Track Talent Comes Here March 24
FRESHMEN WILL ENTER
“Tex” Tilson Predicts Great Meet When High Athletes Get Together

Under the direction of Coach “Tex” Tilson, Davidson will again sponsor a track meet for all high schools of this state. The meet will be held on Saturday, March 24th. Invitations will be issued to every high school in North Carolina having a track team, and it is expected that nearly every one will send a team for the meet. The trophy cup will be awarded to the school winning the meet. Charlotte High has walked away with the honors rather consistently of late, but the Queen City boys will have a harder fight this year according to present indications. There seems to be a number of promising teams throughout the state, and competition will probably be very keen. Coach Tilson expressed the belief that a number of schools which hitherto have not participated in the Davidson meet will enter this year. He was highly pleased with the manner in which last year’s meet was carried out, but seemed to think that the 1928 field day would be better than ever before. Richardson Field will be in splendid shape. (Continued on page 8)

Glee Club on Tour
In all of the above debates, except the one with William and Mary, the query will be: (Continued on page 8)

Davidson Diamond Artists Slated by Manager to Play Twenty-two Contests
Davidson Wildcats will play 22 baseball games in the season of 1928, according to an announcement made by R. S. Link, Jr., manager of baseball. These games will be with teams representative of five states: North Carolina, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, and Pennsylvania. The season will open on March 23rd, with Elon pitted against the Wildcats, and will close with a game with N. C. State on May 12th, at Raleigh. The opening game will be played at Davidson. As has been the custom for several years, the annual game with North Carolina University will be played on some neutral field. The game this year will be played at Salisbury, on April 9th. Last year Carolina won by a decisive score when Westmoreland, Carolina’s pitching ace, downed the Wildcats without a single hit.

Coach “Monk” announced that a call for pitchers will be issued on February 15th. There are two varsity pitchers left over from last year and one catcher to form a nucleus for the battery, with eight other letter men of last year around which to build the rest of the team. Following two games on the home field to start the season, the Wildcats will leave on a five-day trip through North Carolina and Virginia, leaving on April 2nd. After a series of games here Davidson will leave on a four-day trip to end the season at Raleigh on May 12th with N. C. State.

The complete schedule for 1928 is as follows:
March 23—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
March 29—Elon at Davidson.
(Continued on page 5)

Easter Meditation Should be Factor in Life Theme of Vespers
“Meditation as a fundamental factor in a rich Christian life” was the central theme of the vespers conducted by the Y. M. C. A. Ministerial Band, Sunday. T. E. Hill and F. D. Miller were the speakers of the evening. This meeting, the last of a series conducted by members of the present student body, was unique in plan and was well presented. Several selections by the quartet, P. J. Garrison, F. Pilcher, R. W. Kirkpatrick, and C. K. Poole, added much to the effectiveness of the program.

T. E. Hill took for the subject of his talk a passage from the 23rd Psalm, “He leadeth me beside the still waters,” and stressed the need of man to be led by the still waters by the Master. The Christian life divorced from service and the ideal of service is not the true Christian life; but, nevertheless, service is the product of something deeper. The Master in stressing the importance of fruits did not overlook the fact that there must be a tree nourishing and supporting all fruit produced. We are the branches that bear the fruit, but we must not forget the Tree of Life. Many men are so busy trying to solve the problems of life confronting them that they have quite forgotten what goal they are striving for. Others troubled by doubts as (Continued on page 5)Carolina Three Consecutive Days—Trip to Atlanta Also Planned

In an endeavor to vary the type of vaudeville programs being presented before the Charlotte public, thereby preserving and stimulating the interest in the entertainment being offered, the Carolina, one of Charlotte’s foremost theatres, has been making arrangements with Professor Cullum and John Foster, the head of the Glee Club, to have the Davidson Glee Club fill a three days’ engagement with them. Though the final date has yet to be agreed upon, it is understood that the engagement will be for the first three days of the week and that the club will use the whole time allotted for vaudeville for the rendition of several of their more popular selections. The program is to consist of a boiling down of the regular two hours’ program to one sufficiently short to fit the half hour, more or less, that is used for vaudeville presentation. Agnes Scott College, in Atlanta, is also to be the host of the club sometime in the month of March, probably toward the last of the month. The combined Glee Club and the two orchestras are engaged to go on this trip. Several stop-offs on the way to Atlanta are now being arranged. Charlotte will again be the scene of the (Continued on page 8)

ATTENTION SUBSCRIBERS

Due to the fact that the last issue of the Davidsonian came out during the examination period we were unable to get it to our out-of-town subscribers on time. However, we hope this will not occur again and the rest of the year you will receive your copies promptly.

For Sharpshooters

The Davidson rifle team, under the leadership of Julian Lake, the captain, will enter into an extensive program in the coming spring. Twenty-three matches will be fired, two of which will be off the campus. The schools that are scheduled to match the Wildcat sharpshooters are located at various points from the Atlantic to the Pacific coast. At the present time the team is in the process of firing the Fourth Corps Area match. The trophy for this match is to come from the Fourth Corps Area's headquarters, in Atlanta. Out of the scores fired by the 15 men competing in this contest, the 10 highest will be sent to Atlanta. The match will last through the month of February, March 2nd being the last day on which the scores may be turned in. The men who are firing in the match are: J. S. Gudger, S. W. Vance, W. M. Taylor, W. G. McGavock, R. Lennon, Clarence Long, E. D. Russell, J. C. Bradley, S. Y. Brown, W. B. Yancey, E. G. Epes, P. J. Garrison, J. Lake, C. P. Greyer, and A. G. Randolph. The team is expecting to fire a match in Gastonia sometime during the spring. Also, it is the plan of the captain to have the team (Continued on page 6)

Candidates Appear for Spring Football Work

Fifty Men Called Out by Coaches to Whip Into Mid-Year Training

On the first afternoon of spring football practice about 50 candidates made their appearance on the gridiron. The number was smaller than usual this year due to the fact that it was limited by the coaches. By the stiff and snappy workout that Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson gave their proteges it could easily be seen that the spring football season was to be a time of earnest work and hard drill which will be necessary to develop a winning eleven for the 1927 football season. The coaches started the candidates running down on punts and catching and throwing passes. Then the men were instructed in double teaming and blocking. After a considerable workout in these forms of drill, four teams were picked and two plays were given out to the different teams to be run. The air was keen and the workouts were snappy. The men seemed to get into the spirit of the drills as the quarterbacks barked out the signals. After a brief signal drill Coach Younger gave the squad a good workout in exercises. The whole practice was fast and snappy and the men seemed to enter into it in good spirit. The upperclassmen who were called out are: Baker, Tut McConnell, Carson, Hunt, Leftwich, Harper, Peterson, Smith, Decamp, Archie, Christian, Riggs McConnell, Warren, Kerr, Regen, McColgan, DeArmon, Wilson, Hammett, Mills, Middleton, Hampton, Flinn, Black, Kell, Parrish, Buster Matthews, Brohard, Kugler, and Matthews. The Freshmen are: Covington, H. S., Page, Marrow, Bird, Foyl, Mason, Proctor, (Continued on page 2)

BLYTHE AND ISENHOUR AWARDED CONTRACT CHAMBERS NORTH WING

Charlotte Contractors Chosen by Building Committee from Fourteen Contracting Firms Submitting Three Types of Bids

The building committee of Davidson College today awarded a contract to Blythe and Isenhour, a Charlotte firm, for the erection of the northern wing of Chambers building. This concern was the lowest bidder on that unit of the building, their bid being $153,725, almost seven thousand less than the nearest competitor. The Charlotte contractors erected the present south wing. Fourteen contracting firms submitted three types of bids on the central section, on the northern wing, and on the two combined. The committee appointed by the board of trustees deliberated until late in the afternoon before they reached a decision to let a contract for the northern unit. All were present by the committee. They included Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college; Dr. J. M. McConnell, treasurer; Dr. C. M. Richards and Dr. J. M. McConnell, of the faculty; and S. A. Robinson, of Gastonia, secretary of the board of trustees. R. A. Dunn, of Charlotte, chairman of the finance committee of the trustees, was also present at the meeting, as well as Henry C. Hibbs, of Nashville, Tenn., architect. When the wing for which the contract was let is completed it will give Davidson College two units of the proposed $600,000 administrative and classroom structure to replace the Chambers building destroyed by fire in 1921. The southern wing was completed and occupied in the fall of 1925.

Pictures Sponsored By “Y” Discontinued

According to Jeff Garrison, Y. M. C. A., there will be no more movies under the supervision of the “Y,” due to the scant favor with which previous pictures have met. This removal of Saturday night pleasures of old recalls memories of happy times at the conclusion of busy weeks in years gone by, when, taking chairs from their rooms, students “rushed the gate” at the gym in order to get first-class seats and thereby gain a vantage point from which to view the “Fire” which might be present. Then they recall how they tried to out-roar the famous silent lion and all such nonsense, followed by cries to “Focus” and “Frame It” as the machine tried its best to go on the blink. Efforts were made to continue these Saturday night presentations, but financial backing was not given by the students, who have usually spent their weekly twenty-five cents for a show before that time. Prior to 1926 this was the only amusement in the town and was the leading source of expense money for the local “Y” in its various activities. Just what will be done with the machine and other equipment has not been announced by the management. The Y is planning to get some new games and other forms of recreation, just another evidence of the effort the Y is making to best serve and help Davidson men. It has been suggested that another tournament be started, and plans are being made to that effect. If you want to sign up for this contest, be sure to drop by and tell the Secretary or some of the Cabinet.