4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 12, 1928

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Friday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
BOYCE MARTIN

Business Manager
M. P. CRAWFORD

EDITORIAL STAFF
A. N. BROWN ........ Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT .... Managing Editor
J. B. MORTARITY .... Managing Editor
R. G. GUERRY ........ Athletic Editor
R. A. WILSON ........ Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE ........ Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS ...... Associate Editor
D. T. TONS .......... Associate Editor
G. C. WADSWORTH ... Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY ......... Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY .... Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON ........ Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL ....... Assistant Business Manager
P. V. GARRISON ...... Subscription Manager
R. W. DICKSON ...... Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS ........ Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE ...... Solicitor
B. C. HANEY ......... Solicitor

Reporters’ Club
President
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer
D. P. ANDERSON
R. W. McDERMIT
W. H. STUART
W. R. McQUEEN
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D. MILLER
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A. LTON
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. R. F. JARRARD
D. T. S. F. W. JOHNSTON
A. C. CREETON
Z. V. LONG
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

A LITTLE ABOUT EXAMS

If there be any person so different and peculiar that he reads this column thoroughly every week he will probably
arise after reading this editorial and protest the number of sermons which emanate from this trusty typewriter. Believing, however, that
there be none of the characters described existing, and believing that if they do exist they are probably human and
have missed one or two issues, we will attempt to give forth some more of our valuable advice to the
members of the student body.

From the heading on the article, one can easily ascertain the fact that it concerns those mental contortions and convulsions
in which the entire body will indulge some few days hence. In other words, examinations and all subsidiary elements of
this awful term will be among those present on the campus next week. To a few of the more optimistic
seniors, the days appear now to be enrobed in a hazy mist of prospective pleasures, but to the unfortunate majority
of the campus nothing but misery and torture can be seen.

To the freshmen, however, this scene appears slightly distorted. From various sources, he has been informed of different aspects of
the situation. If his information was gleaned from Davidson students or from former members of the student body, he will
find upon comparison that they all agree on one point. And that is that no Davidson gentleman ever stoops to
cheat on an examination. This has probably been drilled into some from the time they arrived here, but it is
always possible that some few are not thoroughly aware of the feeling here on this subject. The idea is not
that a Davidson man must not do this and must do that, but rather that certain things are just not
“done” here. The first among this list is cheating. It would be trite to say again what the honor of
a Davidson man means to him, this is instilled in the hearts of every true son of Davidson. One of
the prime requisites of this condition is that he be free from any taint of cheating.

Some freshmen will find the attitude here a little different from that in vogue at their respective high schools or
prep schools. But this should be forgotten now that he is a student here and the single standard which governs
all Davidson men should be remembered. The re-reading of the section of the constitution of the student body which governs
this point would be well worth the while of every man here. There are many who know it almost by
heart, but there are some possibly who fail to appreciate properly the true significance of this passage. It should be
understood that this article is not directed to the freshmen alone, since there have been upperclassmen who have succumbed to
temptations after being here for a year or so. The appeal is to the freshmen in particular, since this is
their first year.

A little pride in the efficiency of this system also enters in the discussion. The University of Washington recently voted
to abolish the honor system due to its failure among the students. We are not boasting when we say that
it has been a success during the entire period it has been in force here at Davidson and true Davidson
men are justly proud of the fact. At Birmingham Southern College recently appeared an article in the weekly paper relative
to the cheating there at the institution. The writer made the statement that he knew of fifty cases of cheating
at the college and insisted that the honor system was a farce. He was promptly expelled from the institution when
he failed to make his charges definite. It should be remembered that a case such as this is considered as
seriously here as the actual cheating itself. The honor section of the constitution states that a man is on his
honor to report any violations of the section, and by this is meant that he should do all within his
power to see that other students uphold the honor of the school as well as he.

To many the above statements seem old and hackneyed, but if they have been thoroughly imbued with the real meaning
of the system their criticism is justifiable. And it is not toward them that the article is directed, but rather
to their weaker brethren who are wavering a bit. It is hoped that this message will reach them and the
student body will rejoice in passing through this trying period with the escutcheon unsullied.

THE VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE INSTITUTE

Announcement is made in another column of this paper of the plans for the Vocational Guidance Institute for this year.
For those who do not know of the function of this project or for those who were not interested enough
to attend it last year, a few words of summary might well be propounded.

The Vocational Guidance Institute was begun last year under the direction of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet in an effort to interest
undergraduates in their lifework before they were graduated from this institution. Six different speakers were obtained, five of these speaking
on specialized topics relative to their respective professions and the sixth spoke on the general theme of “Business.” It might
be well to remind the underclassmen that these talks were not prepared for the seniors alone, but rather more specifically
for men who were not yet seniors, in order that their plans might take some definite shape before the final
year at college.

In these talks each man outlined the purposes of his profession, what we should put into it and what he
in return should expect from it. To hear an eminent man speak on his chosen profession is a privilege which
most of the students do not seem to appreciate properly. Whether or not a student is planning to enter this
certain profession, or whether he has chosen a profession which is not included in the schedule of lectures, he should
attend some of them; it is a certainty that his time will not be wasted.

A great majority of the student body have not yet decided definitely their plan of action when they finish here.
There are a few seniors who have not come to any conclusion as to what course in life they will
pursue during the coming year. If any underclassman is in doubt as to whether or not he should attend these
lectures, he should talk the matter over with one of these seniors and find out how much he wishes that
he had attended them.

Open Forum

We Would Like to Know

This is merely a letter of inquiry. Some of the Davidson alumni in this section are very much disgusted at
the Davidson basketball schedule. Before criticizing we would be willing to give the authorities a chance to justify the schedule.
In order that they might have something definite to answer suppose they consider the following questions:

Why are the other “big five” teams able to arrange games with Carolina and State whereas Davidson did not?
Why is Davidson playing four games with “little five” teams and three with “big five”?
Why does Davidson confine its out-of-state games with South Carolina fives, good teams though they may be?
Why is it that the scrapping Davidson football elevens are willing to face a terrific schedule each season, while our
basketball teams have a chance to play only four schools of any rating—Duke, Wake Forest, Furman and Clemson?
What will Davidson have won in case the Wildcat five were victors in every game on the 1928 schedule?
Who arranged that schedule, anyway?

JUST WHY?

THE LITERARY SOCIETIES

The two organizations which were formerly the most powerful and efficient on the Davidson campus are rapidly waning in strength
and interest. A decade or two ago the two literary societies were the most powerful factors in the student's life
at Davidson. These societies served not only for a display room for forensic abilities, but were alsoa vital part in
the social life of the student. One can readily understand why the societies have lost their leadership in social activities,
due to the various changes this century has brought and due to the influx of several new social fraternities within
the last ten or fifteen years. But one cannot understand why these societies should be almost completely deserted by those
most interested in forensic activities. At present, there seems to be very little relation between the Forensic Council and the
societies, although nominally the council is controlled by them. There is no restriction on candidates for the various debating teams;
they are merely asked to come out. It is readily seen that some efficient cooperation should be effected between these
two forces, which should be directed as one.

In one literary society last year, the two main debaters were very rarely present. Both were seniors and could have
done much in aiding the underclassmen in shaping their forensic careers for their remaining years at Davidson. These seniors, however,
chose to refrain from attending meetings. The direction of the society was left in the hands of three or four
other seniors who had nobly stayed with the cause for their four years. It is situations such as this that
tend to eliminate the little interest remaining in the societies. The freshmen and sophomores are usually very active and interested
in the working of the society. In the junior year, the number decreases, and by the last year, there are
usually five or maybe six seniors in the society. One freshman was complaining the other day about the situation of
the societies here. An alumnus of the class of '05 or '06 had been instrumental in his choosing Davidson, and
this alumnus had described the advantages and wonders of the literary societies as they had been in his day. The
freshman was greatly disappointed when he arrived here and learned their true condition.

It would be useless to advocate a return to the days when everyone in college was a member of one
of the two societies, and the true motive and purpose of the society would be ruined if attendance was compulsory.
It is obvious, however, that the forensic activities of the students in intercollegiate debating and the like should be definitely
tied up with literary societies. If the men who are on the debating squad could be urged to attend every
meeting, could be asked to help the new men of the societies, and in every way improve the present condition
of the organizations, much good could be accomplished. The present situation points to a change of some kind. Either the
societies must be revived, or else they must die a natural death. It is certain that they cannot continue as
they have for the past two or three years. The first indication of this change was when the two new
societies which had been formed during the past ten years were taken back into the fold of the parent societies.
Either the varsity debaters feel that they can derive no more benefit from the societies, or else they are too
lazy to contribute anything to the improvement of these organizations. If the first is true, the societies should be abolished
in favor of some other system of training men for the debating contests. If the latter is true, a new
rule should be adopted that no man shall be eligible for participation in any of the intercollegiate debates unless he
is a member of one of the societies.

Rather an ironic note was sounded in one of the leading dailies in an edition during the holidays. There appeared
a story on the peace and calm of the world as the new year arrived. On one side of this
story was a report of the fact that 2,000 had been killed in Canton by the communists. Flanking the central
article on the other side was a story of the operations relative to the raising of the S-4. We merely
wonder if there is any jealousy on the part of Leopold and Loeb for the activities of their rival, Hickman?

had made some definite decision earlier in his college career. Particularly are these lectures meant for freshmen and sophomores. To
these men who have not as yet decided their major course which they plan to pursue here, and who now
are planning to major in just anything that may strike their fancy, these lectures should afford much thought. Every man
who lectures will declare that it is best to formulate some general plan as to a life’s work before a
man travels too far in college to retrace some of his steps. To the juniors and seniors also these lectures
will be valuable. To the ones who have not chosen their work, there will be much thought-provoking material brought out.
To those who have decided what they will do, new fields of thought and new vistas will be opened. It
will be only natural then, to expect a large number of students at each of these discussions.

Ollapodrida

Examinations approach, the horizon darkens, and students shiver at the prospect. To alleviate the frigid reaction, Harvard authorities have adopted
a new method of preparation for the ordeal. During the month of January, no classes will be held. Students will
be given a selected list of books to be read for reference work, and the remainder of their time will
be their own to devote to review work. We predict that the plan will not meet with success in the
college proper, but that the graduate students will be benefitted by it. Undergraduate students have not yet reached the point
of self-discipline at which they can set themselves to the exacting task of reference work at will. Graduate students are
rapidly reaching that point.

The heat of the human body ranges around 98.5 degrees. In this semi-tropic climate, cancer cells thrive in it. At
111.5 degrees, those same cells collapse. The problem: to bring the body to this heat for a period of thirty
minutes without resultant death. Dr. George Walker, of Johns Hopkins University, has produced the desired result in certain of the
six thousand experimental mice over which he reigns. Now he seeks a human subject but promises slight hope of survival
at the present stage of experimentation. Needless to say, there have been no volunteers. The human body is delicately adjusted,
and a variation of less than ten degrees is always fatal. There is little chance the present method will become
a successful cure, but each new experiment adds additional information to our store of knowledge and will lead some day
to a certain cure.

New York educational circles are playing the bull side of the market. An ambitious superintendent of schools has forced the
passage of a new salary bill. Under its terms, he procures $12,000 per annum for himself. School principals receive $7,000
a year, and the lowliest of instructors will start at $1,300 with a maximum outlook of $3,000 in fourteen years’
service. More elite college instructors and professors howled as salaries went up. Many of them do not receive as much
for their more expert services. It seems that the poorly salaried school teacher is soon to become a myth.

Farm relief, that thorn in the side of all politicians for the past ten years, has once more thrust in
its browsy head during the past week as President Coolidge interviewed the biggest of them all. Farmer Campbell, tsar of
soil tillers, reigns over 100,000 acres of Montana soil. Each year he cultivates half of this surface and feeds the
world 500,000 bushels of wheat. J. P. Morgan once backed him with two million dollars. Now he heads his own
farm corporation. However, Farmer Campbell offered no new solution to the much-muted question. Farmer Campbell holds the solution himself. Some
day, not many years hence, all farmers will be allied to giant corporations, marketing their goods through a single agency
and controlling prices. Therein lies relief, and in his own corporation, Farmer Campbell has set a precedent.

Last year, well-fed and in a benevolent spirit, the members of the Woodrow Wilson Foundation offered prizes totaling $25,000 for
the best essays upon the subject “What Woodrow Wilson Means to Me.” Ten thousand aspirants endeavored to make him mean
$10,000 (first prize). Last week, the winners were announced but with little pecuniary adjustment. Of the ten thousand, the committee
had found no essay worthy of the first or second prize and only forty-four even worthy of consideration. The Foundation
failed in offering a subject with such sentimental possibilities.

Mexico received a call from Lindbergh and evinced an interest in airplanes. Straightway, the government sought to procure one for
the rapid transportation of its officials. One airplane does not make an army, but the United States, controlling the purchase
through an embargo, considered and finally granted the request. Powerful as we are, we fear the air supremacy of our
backward neighbor. The United States refuses to develop this most important side of its defense and then makes its neighbors
even more backward by its embargo. Mexico has no alternative, but had the tables been reversed, such an embargo might
easily have resulted in war. Such are the ways of nations.

President Coolidge predicted a year of great prosperity, in direct contradiction to the general business trend, and stocks on the
New York market jumped from one to five points. An intimate friend might easily have anticipated the prediction and its
expected result to capitalize on it. We hope that the President keeps them secret until the moment they are made.

W. L. L.

About time for another book about or by Lindbergh since his “We” has been relegated to the daily papers now.
And another “merely wonder”—if anyone ever reads these darn things anyway?
