THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1928

Lenoir-Rhyne Wins From Davidson Nine

Last Wednesday proved an unlucky day for Wildcat diamond hopes, when the locals suffered an unexpected setback at the hands of Dick Gurley and his Lenoir-Rhyne Mountain Bears. 9 to 7 was the margin by which the Hickory lads downed Davidson's ball handlers. After being presented with a six-run lead in the second frame, “Doc” Kugler was driven from the box by a rejuvenated Lenoir team, and John McInnis came to the rescue too late to snatch the game from the fire. Meanwhile, Rumple, Gurley’s star southpaw, proceeded to set the Wildcats down in very decisive fashion, and they could do little or nothing with his offerings. The game gave evidence of quite a let-down on the part of the Jungaleers, since they had been picked as easy winners. Erratic fielding and the old, old failure to hit in the pinches spelled defeat for Younger’s men. Last spring the Bears lost to Davidson by an 11-3 count.

NORRIS TROPHY (Continued from page 1)

The committee are: Currie, Grey, Harrison, Johnson, Nesbit, and Wilson. John Currie is track captain and star dash man, Dick Grey is football captain and halfback of that team. Charlie Harrison took part in football, basketball, and baseball. Mutt Nisbet was fullback on the football team. Hal Johnson plays centerfield in baseball. Ben Wilson was captain and center on the basketball team. All men in the contest belong to the Senior class except Currie, who is a Junior.

WEARERS OF “D” (Continued from page 1)

The student body during the past year be made known. Especially does he wish to thank everyone for the response made to the rule abolishing the semi-annual “D” Club round,” the response having been shown by not breaking in on initiations and meetings. He furthermore has said that this new ruling has been the greatest thing that they have done this year, in that it has benefited both the “D” Club and the students, and it has caused the club to be respected like any honorary fraternity.

FAITHFUL SERVANT (Continued from page 1)

Always found a familiar sight. Baxter, in his own words, has witnessed many a change in the college, including the cycle of erection, burning, and rebuilding of Chambers building.

N. C. WINS STATE TRACK (Continued from page 1)

John Currie, of Davidson; Erwin, of Duke, and Young, of State, were tied for individual honors in the meet with 10 points each. They will all receive silver shields and gold medallions for prizes. Summary by events:

Freshman sprint medley (440, 220, 220, 880): State, first (Mitchell, Edmundson, Stout, McGinn), Carolina second, Guilford third. Time 3 minutes, 44 seconds.

Mile run: Elliott (C), Woodard (D), Barkley (C), Fisher (C). Time 4 minutes 23 2-5 seconds. New State record.

440-yard dash: Erwin (D), Harrison (C), Nims (C), Brohard (D). Time 50 4-5 seconds. New state record.

Shot put: Brummitt (D), Adkins (C), Leftwich (D), Patterson (S). Distance 40 feet 9 3-8 inches.

100-yard dash: Currie (D), Bruton (D), Mulligan (HP), Sanit (C). Time 10 seconds.

120-yard hurdles: Whittle (D), Pearson (C), Perry (C), Smith (C), and Glenn (C), tied for fourth. Time 15 3-5.

Discus: Harper (C), Adkins (C), Brummitt (D), King (S). Distance 127 feet 5 1-2 inches.

880-yard run: Evans (C), Woodward (D), Horney (C), Barkley (C). Time 1 minute 59 2-5. New state record.

Freshman 880-yard relay: Carolina first, (Parks, Goodwin, Skinner, Gay), State second, Davidson third, Duke fourth. Time 1 minute 36 1-5 seconds.

Broad jump: Kinsey (WF), Young (S), Parkerson (S), Futtrell (D). Distance 21 feet 5 1-2 inches.

220-yard dash: Currie (D), Bruton (D), Mulligan (HP), Smith (C). Time 22 4-5 seconds.

Two mile run: Pritchett (C), Doxey (D), Cox (C), Alexander (S). Time 9 minutes 58 1-5 seconds.

Javelin: Bennett (D), Moore (G), Young (S), Ingle (C). Distance, 179 feet 4 inches.

220-yard hurdles: Erwin (D), Stafford (C), Gorman (S), Pearson (C). Time 25 4-5 seconds.

Pole vault: Patten (G), and Cowper (C), tied for first, Batley (WF) and Jones (C), tied for third. Height 11 feet 6 3-4 inches.

Freshmen medley distance race (440, 880, 1320, mile): State first (Edmundson, McGinn, Marshall, Johnson), Duke second, Carolina third. Time 11 minutes 14 2-5 seconds.

Mile relay: Davidson first (Kelly, Laf- ferty, Brohard, Currie), Carolina second.

CREDENZA, $300.00

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA

All Models in Stock---Easy Terms

ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.

The Finest Musical Instrument in the World Prices $95 to $1,000 NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY

Commencement Clothes

Especially do we call to the attention of the Seniors that we are featuring Commencement Clothes and accessories. Suits, Tuxedos, and accessories of every description. We will show next week.

A Mother on Mother’s Day, Sunday at “Y” Vespers

Friendship was discussed at vespers last Sunday evening. On next Sunday an emotion greater than friendship will come to the minds of all students. A special Mother’s Day program has been arranged, with special music and decorations for the occasion. The talk of the evening will be delivered by Mrs. Finley of North Wilkesboro, who is the mother of some former Davidson men. Mrs. Finley is a woman of some note in the state, and the “Y” promises a splendid message. Also, there will be something in the nature of a surprise for each student attending. The character of this cannot be released, but the “Y” urges everyone to attend vespers and find out for themselves. The services will be held in Shearer, instead of on the lawn, as usual.

Rev. H. W. DuBose, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Spartanburg, will conduct the last vesper services of the year. Dr. DuBose is well known as a speaker of ability and one of the ablest men in the Southern Presbyterian Church.

Election of officers on the new “Y” Board of Control have been completed by the date of publication. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, head of the chemistry department, is chairman of the new board.

There are still a few copies of the “Testament for Fishers of Men” at the “Y” office. Anyone who desires to purchase a copy of this helpful edition of the New Testament can do so. Also, although practically five hundred copies of the booklet, “Why the ‘Y’”, have been mailed out, students may still obtain copies of it at the “Y” room.

Remember!Next Sunday will be Mother’s Day; services at six forty-five in Shearer Hall.

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Philanthropic
Boyce Martin was chosen at the last meeting of the society to represent the organization in the Literary Society Night exercises during commencement. M. C. O’Neal was chosen marshal and R. C. Grady and C. W. McPheely sub-marshals for that event. Frank Hall, the new president of the society, was sworn into office by the retiring president, M. C. O’Neal. After this, he delivered his inaugural address and announced his committees for the following year. After reports from the treasurer and various committees, the meeting was thrown open for a discussion of whether Junior Speaking should be abolished at Davidson. R. C. Grady, M. C. O’Neal, and Chas. McRae took part in this open forum discussion.

Eumenean
The society chose Howard Bell Arbuckle, Jr., as its speaker for Literary Society Night. Sub-marshals elected. W. L. Dumas delivered his inaugural address upon taking his position as president of the society. This was followed by short talks delivered by Tyree Dillard and H. B. Arbuckle.

“What will the modern girl be about ten years from now?”
“O, about three years older.”

by Duke third. (Time 3 minutes 28 1-5), Carolina 59.4 points, Duke 40.7; Davidson 27, State 19.2, Guilford 7, Wake Forest 6.7, High Point 4. Currie, Davidson; Erwin, Duke, and Young, State, tied for high score honors with 10 points each.

DEPARTMENT EDITORS
(Continued from page 1)
Delta social fraternity, and comes from Burlington, N. C. D. P. Anderson, from Birmingham, Ala., is a member of the Theta Upsilon Omega social fraternity. J. L. Brown is a North Carolinian. All of the above men are members of the Sophomore class. J. W. McCutchan, a Freshman, is a product of the Old Dominion, and has shown this ability as a writer from his short stay at Davidson. John Q. Dickinson, a mountaineer from West Virginia, is beginning his third year at Davidson.

Work Progressing on New Chambers
Since the 19th of April, when the work began on the foundations for the north and central sections of the Chambers building, there is considerable marked progress in evidence. The walls and the concrete foundations for the columns are practically completed. The concrete is now being poured around the storm pipes to direct the drainage. Soon the basement columns will be in place and the cement slabs to act as the foundation for the first floor will be put into place. At the present time, there are 35 men at work on the building. Besides this number, there is a considerable force of men hauling brick, tile, crushed rock, and reinforcing steel. By commencement, all of the foundation work will be completed. The cornerstone to be laid during commencement has arrived and the following inscription is carved upon it:

CHAMBERS
ERECTED 1885
BURNED 28, 1921
REBUILT 1928

Fresh Tennis Team Near End of Season
After a fairly successful season, the Freshman tennis team will probably play their last match this week. According to W. L. Poe, manager of the team, plans are underway with Charlotte High for a match here sometime within the next few days. If played, this will be the concluding match of the year for the Freshmen. Up to date, the Freshmen have played four matches, two with Winston-Salem and two with the Carolina Fresh team. They easily won the matches over Winston-Salem with a score of 5-1 each time. They lost to Carolina, however, 5-1 and 4-2. The second match with the Carolina netmen was held last Saturday at Davidson. Though the Kittens suffered defeat from the Tar Babies, nevertheless the whole team played fine tennis but were unable to withstand the fast serves and hard lofts that their opponents used. Poe, the Freshman ace, played in the feature event of the day. In the doubles, the Kittens hit their stride and gave the Carolina racqueteers a real showing. The Freshmen have been running off a singles championship tourney among themselves. The finals in this tournament will soon be played off between Poe and Lynn.

Fresh Oratoricals to be Held Friday
Tomorrow night at 8 o’clock, the most eloquent member of the freshman class will be chosen when the finals of the fresh oratoricals are held in Shearer Hall. Four men will compete in this contest. They are J. C. Matthews, P. W. Glidewell, R. Overman, and Wm. Rembert. These men were selected in a preliminary contest held about two months ago in which eight men contested. The judges for the contest Friday night are Prof. Currie and Doctors C. K. Brown and T. W. Lingle. The winner of this contest will be presented with a gold medal during the commencement exercises. This contest has been sponsored by the two literary societies who have provided the medal. This is the first year that a freshman oratorical contest has been held. In former years, each literary society chose its best declaimer and these then contested in the final meet. The Forensic Council, however, decided that this innovation would prove more interesting and beneficial to the freshmen.

FRY ELECTED
(Continued from page 1)
a member of the Sophomore class and plays the saxophone in the Sunnyland Serenaders. His home is in Badin, N.C. The new business manager of the Glee Club, A. S. Abernethy, comes from Winter Haven, Fla. He is a member of the chorus. Abernethy was recently chosen manager of track for next year and is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. The retiring president and business manager of the Glee Club are John Foster, of Winston-Salem, and Ed. Douglas, of Augusta, Ga.

VICTROLAS
STATIONERY
STUDENT SUPPLIES

Boys, Don’t Forget Mother
Leave Your Orders Here for Flowers and Candy
Starting Saturday, 12th, each night until exams are over
Where Quality, Service, and Courtesy are Dominant Factors
Davidson Book & Stationery Co.
Everything the student needs

SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY
“The Big Killing” with Wallace Beery & Raymond Hatton
TUESDAY
“Lady Be Good” with Jack Mulhall and Dorothy Mackaill
WEDNESDAY
“Honor Bound” with George O’Brien & Estelle Taylor
THURSDAY
Emil Jannings in “The Street of Sin”
FRIDAY
Jacqueline Logan in “Hot Heels”
SATURDAY
Tom Mix in “Devil’s Reward”