THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 16, 1928

ALUMNI SECRETARIES PLAN EXTENSIVE TOUR TO END IN NEW YORK

Meetings Arranged at Richmond, Baltimore, Washington, and New York—Personal Interviews Planned at Other Cities

An early spring tour, which will carry Davidson’s two alumni secretaries on an extended swing up through the northern and
eastern states of the Atlantic seaboard, has been planned for March 8-15. Four alumni meetings are to be held on
the trip, the remainder of the time being spent in interviews with individual alumni in the states through which the
alumni secretaries will travel.

The first of the four meetings will be held at Richmond, Va., where more than 60 Davidson alumni are located.
The Richmond meeting will be held on March 8, with Dr. Walter Lingle in charge. Davidson alumni, who are studying
at Union Theological Seminary, will attend this meeting. The following evening a meeting of Davidson alumni will be held in
Washington, D. C., under the direction of J. A. Thomas, who was graduated from Davidson in the class of 1918.
On the day preceding the dinner, the alumni secretaries will visit the alumni in Washington and hold personal interviews with
groups of former Davidson students.

Baltimore will be the scene of the third meeting, which is scheduled for Saturday, March 10. From Baltimore, Ernest Milton,
alumni secretary, will continue to New York where he is to be the guest of honor at the semi-annual meeting
of Davidson alumni in that city. The local officials of the alumni office will return to Davidson about March 15.

The professor was giving his pupils some pointers on short story writing. “To be successful,” he said, “the short story
should have a touch of reverence, some reference to royalty, and just a little of the risque. See if you
can write something for me tomorrow which will cover those points.” The next day the budding author handed in the
following: “My God,” said the princess, “take your hand off my knee.”—Northern Baptist.

FELLOWS! You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

Beginners’ Golf Outfits. We offer a set of four Clubs and Canvas Bag for $8.50. We restring Tennis Racquets. Myers
Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Personal Friends of Clarence Rankin, ’87, of Asheville, and E. R. Rankin, ’06, of Statesville, will regret to learn of
the death of their father, James E. Rankin, which occurred in Asheville this week at the age of 82 years.
Mr. Rankin was described as one of the “pioneer bankers” of that city, and was connected with Asheville in many
civic capacities.

C. K. Taylor, Jr., ’25, is now with the Youngstown Steel Products Co., of Atlanta, Ga.

Rev. R. L. McLeod, '23, who recently returned from a year’s study in Scotland, is now pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church of Grenada, Miss.

A. L. Blanding, ’78, of Fountain Inn, S. C., has recently compiled and edited a history of the Blanding, McFadden,
and Lenoir families. Members of the first two have been connected with Davidson College as students.

Dr. J. F. McClerkin, ’20, whose home is at Monticello, Ark., is private secretary of Senator Joe T. Robinson, of
Arkansas, and at present is in Washington, D. C.

Hon. W. F. Stevenson, ’85, whose home is at Cheraw, S. C., is now in Washington, D. C., being a
congressman from that district. So far as is known, he is the only Davidson alumnus acting in that capacity.

Bald—“Are you sure this will grow hair?” Salesman—“Will it? I spilled some on the oil cloth last night and this
morning it was a rug.”

For Heating and Plumbing Contractor of Rare Excellence See Elliott & Byers Phone 78-W

“If in need of any Oxfords, Shoes, Shirts, Neckwear, Suits or a nice Top Coat come in; we can supply
your needs.”wants THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO. 5th Door from Bank is perhaps the oldest graduate of Davidson, being the only
one of the three to complete his course at the college.

Alumni Office Locates Oldest Living Alumni

Dr. Petrie is now 88 years old and is planning this year to celebrate the 50th anniversary of his connection
with the Presbyterian Church of Charlottesville. He left Davidson and obtained his bachelor of arts degree from Oglethorpe University, going
from there to Columbia Theological Seminary to prepare for the ministry. He served as a chaplain in the war between
the states and was later at Greenville, Ala., and Petersburg, Va. In 1887, Hampden-Sidney College conferred a doctor of divinity
degree upon him.

Rev. I. Conder is not only the oldest living alumnus of Davidson in point of age but has a still
longer record than Dr. Petrie for a continuous pastorate. He retired two or three years ago after serving the church
at McGaheysville since 1866. He did not complete his work at Davidson but attended the North Carolina College from which
institution he obtained his A.B. degree in 1861. The alumni office does not have data concerning his seminary work, but
it is known that he entered the ministry in 1862, doing evangelical work for the Tennessee Lutheran Synod.

The oldest living graduate of Davidson—Mr. Stringfellow—returned to his home at Chester, S.C., after graduation and became a druggist and
pharmacist. He also served in the war between the states, received two wounds at Seven Pines which disabled him for
five months. Two years later he was wounded at Wilderness, and he was also wounded at Farmville two days before
the surrender. Mr. Stringfellow has been blind for 18 years and is now slightly deaf, but still is actively interested
in a farm which he operates near Chester.

Knight Erring

In a still, shadowed garden
I came on a lady fair,
And held by strange enchantment,
I would have lingered there.
But furious at my adoration
She sent me over the wall.
Ah, the beautiful, dreaming lady
Had no make-up on at all.
—Flambeau.

Years ago, P.A. showed a clean pair of heels to the field of smoking-tobaccos. It has maintained its lead ever
since, putting more distance behind it every year. There must be a reason why P.A. is the world’s largest-selling brand.
There is! Open a tidy red tin and get a full breath of that class-by-itself fragrance. Then tamp a load
into the bowl of your pipe and light up. The first pull tells you why more men smoke P.A. than
any other brand. Cool and smooth and mellow and mild—not for one pipe-load, but always. Try this long-burning tobacco, Fellows.
You'll say so!

PRINCE ALBERT — the national joy smoke!
© 2028, J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

If you vibrate to quality, you'll gravitate to P.A.
