Page Four — THE DAVIDSONIAN — November 15, 1928.

Advance Sales Indicate Engagements New Addresses Great Number of Alumni

Alumni Personals

Edwards-Crawford 250 W. 73rd St. Will Be Here Saturday

Showing of Wildcats Against N. C. State Last Week Draws Crowd

PLANS ARE COMPLETED

Alumni Office Has Plan Placing Considerable Emphasis on Home-Coming Occasion for Past Six Months

If the advance sale of reserved tickets is any indication, then the number of Davidson College alumni who will return for the annual Home-Coming celebration will exceed the number of any previous year. A wider territory will also be covered, and a greater number of classes will be represented. Since the State-Davidson game in Greensboro last Saturday, when the Wildcats played the best game of the season, requests have been pouring in, for the alumni know the manner of fight exhibited by the Wildcats when they play Carolina at home, and are expecting them to nobly perform next Saturday.

During the summer and early fall, the alumni office here has been placing emphasis upon this event, and has either enclosed a card indicating the exercises of the day or extended an invitation to each alumnus who was written a personal letter. In addition to this, seventeen men in as many different classes wrote a letter about Home-Coming Day, which was mailed to each of his classmates. Added to this was an invitation from the president and alumni secretary of the association, and a specially prepared alumni newspaper with the thought of Home-Coming as the principal theme of it. A radio program was also given last Tuesday night, outlining the exercises of the day.

Considerable preparations have been made for the entertainment of the visitors, and the secretary has been endeavoring to systematize his office to facilitate matters. Many students have been asked to assist in giving information to the alumni and in directing them about the campus, and several organizations have offered their cooperation for the day. It is an occasion when students, faculty, and all others around Davidson are hosts to the men who were former students at the college.

Elsewhere in this issue of The Davidsonian is a detailed account of the events of the day, starting with the R. O. T. C. parade at 11:15 in the morning, and ending with the stunt night performance in Shearer Hall Saturday evening around 10 o'clock.

Alumni Deaths

The following is a complete list of Davidson College alumni who have died since last Home-Coming Day, October 29th, according to the records in the alumni office. The names of these men will be read at the morning exercises next Saturday. The class, name, and date of death of each one is given below:

1860—Rev. I. Condor, August 31, 1928.
1863—Z. M. Faust, Dec. 31, 1927.
1869—Robert F. Phifer, Oct. 16, 1928.
1871—Jesse Carter, June 15, 1928.
1872—A. D. Pitts, June 4, 1928.
1873—Rev. M. R. Kirkpatrick, Jan. 24, 1928.
1881—Dr. J. W. Summers, June 18, 1928.
1886—Dr. C. L. Summers, July 15, 1928.
1888—S. B. Clowney, January 5, 1928.
1890—J. T. McEachin, Aug. 17, 1928.
1891—Rev. A. A. McGeachy, D.D., Sept. 24, 1928.
1892—Rev. Geo. H. Cornelson, D.D., Mar. 4, 1928.
1893—C. H. Robinson, Sept. 28, 1928.
1894—Dr. J. D. McDowell, June 4, 1928.
1902—(N. C. Medical College) Dr. W. H. Houser, Dec. 20, 1927.
1911—C. E. Watt, Dec. 20, 1927.
1912—Dr. J. H. Caldwell, Aug. 17, 1928.
1915—Rev. L. C. Campbell, Nov. 16, 1927.
1917—Ben N. White, Apr. 8, 1928.
1919—G. S. McMillan, Mar. 4, 1928.
1919—J. W. Spencer, December 23, 1927.
1924—A. O. Easley, May 10, 1928.
1930—Roy Hastings, Nov. 9, 1928.
1931—Reid Knox, Feb. 12, 1928.

ASHEVILLE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION MET THURSDAY NIGHT

Sixteen Alumni, Representing Four Cities, Gathered at George Vanderbilt Hotel

ADOPT CONSTITUTION

Interest in College Affairs Was Keen—Rev. R. P. Smith, D.D., ’73, Made Permanent Honorary President

Sixteen Davidson College alumni in western North Carolina, representing Asheville, Brevard, Hendersonville, and Black Mountain, met at a banquet-meeting at the George Vanderbilt Hotel in Asheville last Thursday night, and held a business session abounding in keen interest for the affairs of Davidson, and ended with a determination to make the Western North Carolina Alumni Association one of the best in the country.

The meeting was presided over by the president, Ruffner Campbell, ‘10, who first requested the men to introduce themselves, naming their classes and respective homes. A constitution and by-laws were presented for adoption, and after its reading, a motion was made and passed accepting it as read. Immediately following this, the president directed the thought of the body along the lines of education, making a comparison of the large university and small college from his own experience and expressed a concern as to the ways and means which the local association could be of benefit to the college and to education generally. The alumni secretary was asked to discuss this, and he cited the three-fold responsibility of alumni—financial, sending students to the college, and using the influence of alumni on individuals of wealth and prominence.

Further remarks were made by the alumni secretary, who called attention to the radio program, the Home-Coming Day celebration at Davidson next Saturday, and the football game between the freshman and Asheville High School on the 24th. At the conclusion of his talk, an open forum discussion followed. Prof. J. H. Davis, Jr., '24, of Davidson, who also attended the meeting, made a short talk, stressing the importance of adequate and proper equipment, and expressing an opinion that Davidson had made remarkable progress in this respect.

Rev. R. P. Smith, D.D., '73, the oldest Davidson alumnus residing in Asheville, was elected permanent honorary president of the association. Alumni attending the affair were Dr. J. S. Brown, Sr., '89, Hendersonville; C. L. Grey, ’92, Hendersonville; Dr. Chas. C. Orr, '95, Asheville; Rev. W. A. Murray, ‘96, Black Mountain; Dr. L. G. Beall, ’99, Black Mountain; Thos. D. Morrison, ’03, Asheville; Dr. G. H. Croom, ’07, Asheville; Hinton McLeod, ‘07, Brevard; Ruffner Campbell, ‘10, Asheville; J. H. Sample, ‘21, Asheville; Dr. J. S. Brown, Jr., ’21, Hendersonville; B. W. Romefelt, ‘21, Asheville; Prof. J. H. Davis, Jr., '24, Davidson; B. G. Brown, '25, Hendersonville; J. H. McConnell, Jr., '25, Asheville; J. E. Singletary, ’25, Hendersonville; Ernest Milton, '26, Davidson; R. B. McConnell, '27, Asheville.

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Wildcat Belts

W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Information has been received by the alumni office of the birth of a daughter, Margaret Patterson, to Rev. J.Lee McLean, '24, and Mrs. McLean, of Fairmont, N.C., on July 18. Fred A. Hopkins, '25, who finished his theological course at Union Seminary, Richmond, Va., last May, is now studying at the Biblical Seminary, 235 East 49th St., New York, N.Y. J. R. Jones, Jr., '17, of Albemarle, is one of the members of a new corporation known as the Phoenix Chevrolet Co., of Rutherfordton, N.C., at Bessemer City, and will take up his duties there on November 18. He was formerly pastor of the North Vanguard Presbyterian Church in Raleigh. P. Hendrix, elected president of the medical class at the University of Pennsylvania. Mr. Hendrix was president of the student body at Davidson his senior year, and his fellow classmates at Pennsylvania have also recognized his leadership qualities. James '25, has been the third year Prof. H. T. Lilly, '18, of Davidson, spoke at the chapel service of Salem College Wednesday morning on the subject, “Recent Experiences in Russia.” Mr. Lilly traveled extensively in that country this summer. Friends will regret to learn of an automobile injury to W. S. Shepherd, Sr., of Winston-Salem, father of W. S. Shepherd, Jr., '23, and H. I. Shepherd, '25. He sustained two fractured ribs and minor lacerations last Sunday. Rev. Coyte Hunter, '19, has accepted a call to the First Presbyterian Church.

DAVIDSON ALUMNI WIN IN ELECTIONS

Three Chosen for State Senate And One for House of Representatives

Three Davidson College alumni will be in the State Senate of North Carolina at its next session, and one will be in the North Carolina House of Representatives, according to the result of the election held on November 6. L. M. Blue, '86, of Gibson; E. R. McKethan, '90, of Fayetteville, and W. B. McQueen, '02, of Raeford, will be in the Senate, and D. E. Turner, '99, of Mooresville, will have a seat in the House of Representatives. Mr. Blue was already an incumbent, and has held several posts of importance during the time he has been in the Senate. Mr. McKethan was a former member of that body as well as the House of Representatives, but was not in the Senate during the past two years. Mr. McQueen will be serving his first term in the upper house, but has previously represented the people in the House of Representatives. Mr. Turner enters the lower body for the first time. In addition to these men, Davidson will have two men in the House of Representatives at Washington, D.C.: W. F. Stevenson, '85, of Cheraw, S.C., who was reelected, and J. Bayard Clark, '05, of Fayetteville, who begins his first service in the national body. Many friends regretted to learn recently of the death of the 10-year-old daughter of McAlister Carson, '13, of Charlotte.

Alumni Marriages

Rankin-McCaskill

Newspapers throughout the state carried an announcement Sunday, November 3rd, of the marriage of Miss Coma McCaskill to Thomas William Rankin, both of Fayetteville, which was solemnized at the First Baptist Church in that city. Mr. Rankin is a member of the class of 1909, and is connected with the hardware firm of A. E. Rankin & Co., of Fayetteville. He is among the most popular sportsmen of North Carolina, being a past president of the North Carolina Fox Hunters’ Association.

Quite a stir was created recently in England when the Prime Minister of England, Mr. Stanley Baldwin, was elected Lord Rector of Glasgow University. The students, according to time-honored custom, voted, but they went much further, to the extent of fighting over the polls. When the Baldwin supporters obtained a strategic position over the polls they were vigorously attacked by a barrage of some five thousand dozen ripe eggs, not to speak of countless codfish heads and soft, rotten fruit. When the aroma of battle cleared the result was found to be 1,044 for Baldwin, as compared with 978 for his nearest competitor.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”

Cars to Rent Special Rates for Long Trips

HENDERSON AUTO CO. DAVIDSON, N.C.

“Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Thomas Edwards, of Kinston, announce the engagement of their daughter, Sarah Grainger, to Clifford Rankin Crawford, the wedding to take place sometime this month. Mr. Crawford is a son of Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Crawford, of Sumter, S.C.” Mr. Crawford, a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1923, is known to all of his friends as “Pat” Crawford, of baseball fame. He is now studying at the Springfield College Y.M.C.A., Springfield, Mass.

Russell-Wray

“Mrs. James Pinkney Wray announces the engagement of her daughter, Mary Margaret, to Mr. Harry Kipsun Russell, of Lumberton, the wedding to take place in December.” Mr. Russell was graduated from Davidson in 1923. He is now studying at the University of North Carolina preparatory to receiving his Ph.D. degree. He had previously spent two years teaching in Syria.

A COLONIAL INN Davidson, N.C. Under Management of Registered Dietitian

HAVE WE SERVED YOU?

Rev. Lawrence Little, ’25, 1315 Vickers Ave., Durham, N.C. Fred A. Hopkins, '25, Biblical Seminary, 235 E. 49th St., New York, N.Y. W. B. Millner, '28, 137 Hicks St., Brooklyn, N.Y. P. S. Tompkins, '28, 5118 Westminster Place, St. Louis, Mo. D. A. Tompkins, Jr., '19, care Sterchi Brothers, Asheville, N.C. M. C. Davis, '26, care Y.M.C.A., Asheville, N.C. W. P. Andrews, '19, Southern Public Utilities Co., Hendersonville, N.C.

My, you need a haircut. Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real College haircut. He has three real barbers.

NORTON BROS. in Post Office block— Three first-class workmen

Eats, drinks of all kinds, cigarettes, etc.---everything you need

Make the Students’ Store Your Headquarters on Homecoming Day

The Students’ Store IT’S YOURS, WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?

BRICKS DE LUXE ICE CREAM STUDENT STORE CONES MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM CO. CUPS

Aubrey Stationer Best Quality and Prices ANY TYPE OF PRINTING Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. Charlotte, N.C.

Any man who wears John Wards will tell the same story. The leathers in John Wards are choicer, wear better. The fit and workmanship are more expert. They have more style appeal to men of the better class. The prices? $7 and $9. Have you ever tried asking your friends?

JOHN WARD INCORPORATED REG. U.S. PAT. OFF. Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark, and Philadelphia

On display by WM. H. BAILEY Davidson, N.C.

A good shoe to ask for by name —HORSEGUARDS