THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 16, 1928

Varied Attractions Are Planned by Junior Class
Committees at Work Promise Festive Occasion During Junior Speaking in April

April the twenty-seventh is the date set for the annual Junior Speaking program. Activities sponsored by the Junior Class will feature for two days, Friday and Saturday, April 27, 28. Originally, Junior Speaking was simply an oratorical contest for members of the Junior class, but has developed into quite an elaborate affair, being a time for house parties, athletic contests, receptions, and dramatic presentations. It was voted this year not to make the program as full as usual, but it is still well-rounded. Friday night in Shearer Hall the Junior Oratorical will be held. There will be a track meet, immediately followed by a reception for the faculty, guests, and the student body. Saturday evening there will be a performance sponsored by the Junior class. The Red and Black Masquers will give a dramatic presentation and the Glee Club will sing on this occasion. A play will be presented, written by some member of the Junior class. It will be chosen from a number of plays which will be submitted by a committee headed by Bob Covington. The program was arranged by committees, the heads of which were appointed by Mac King, president of the Junior class. Raymond Lake is in charge of the special issue of The Davidsonian which is to be published. W. K. Pritchett is chairman of the Oratory Committee, Bob Kell of the Reception Committee, and Bob Covington of the Dramatic Club. Nelson Myers is head of the committee which will keep the program on an economic basis. The Finance Committee is sponsoring performances by the glee club of Converse and Queen’s Colleges within the next six weeks. Further details of the program will be developed by these committees.

THE PLANETARIUM
An Instrument to Illustrate the Movements of Stars
By James Stokley, Science Service — Staff Writer

Imagine a very clear night sky—the sort of sky that one sees from a high mountain, far from the lights and dust of a city. And as imagination can have full reign, imagine this sky can be altered at the will of the observer. It can be made to appear as the sky would be seen from any part of the earth, from the north pole to the south, or as it has appeared thousands of years ago, or will appear in the distant future. Precisely this same effect can be obtained with a wonderful new instrument installed in a number of European cities. A few years ago, travelers returning from Germany told of this instrument—the planetarium—on exhibit in the great Science Museum at Munich. Since then, a dozen German cities, including Berlin, Hamburg, and Dusseldorf, have installed them. Vienna also has one, while others have been ordered for Copenhagen and Moscow. The instrument, the result of the ingenuity of Dr. W. Bauersfeld, an engineer at the Zeiss Optical Work at Jena, is a glorified stereopticon. It is set up in the center of a 90-foot dome lined with white cloth. A battery of over a hundred lenses projects the images of the stars on the dome. These lenses are located around the two large bulbs at each end of the instrument. Motors turn the instrument to simulate the effect of the earth’s rotation, while other motors turn it another way to bring into position the stars seen from other latitudes. In the cylindrical part of the machine are projectors for the sun, the moon, and the five planets visible to the naked eye. An extremely accurate mechanism moves these planet projectors so that their images on the dome duplicate the motions of their celestial prototypes. But motions which take years to complete in the heavens can be run through in a few minutes with the planetarium, thereby explaining their motion far better than thousands of words. The first planetarium will probably be installed in the United States in the near future. Though the complete installation in America would cost $200,000, including the building, as an educational exhibit it is unequalled. In Germany, small admission fees are charged. —Science Service.

N.C.C.W. Honor Roll Largest in Years

Greensboro, N. C., Feb. 12, (CP) — Miss Mary Taylor Moore, registrar of N. C. College for Women, reported that 162 students, about one-tenth of the total population, have their names on the honor list for the first semester of the year 1927-28, because of the excellence of the work done during that semester. No student who averaged below a two is named on the honor roll. The count of honor students according to classes is as follows: freshmen 22, sophomores 36, juniors 42, seniors 59, one graduate and two special students are also on the list. Five of these have the signal honor of making no grade lower than one, the highest given. Three of these five are seniors and two are sophomores. The number of collegians on this semester’s honor roll is somewhat larger than was on that of the last semester for the year 1926-27. Last year the count of the classes ran: freshmen 22; sophomores 32, juniors 40, seniors 50, and one special, totaling 145 to this year’s 162.Reggie indignantly, “that you are laughing at my moustache?” “Excuse me,” giggled Edna, “but every time you shut your mouth, it looks like you wink.”

TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE!
We have at all times a complete stock of
New Orthophonic Victrolas
Brunswick Panatropes
Victor and Brunswick Records
New Records Every Friday
A Complete Line of RCA Radios from $69.50 to $895.
Parker-Gardner Co.

and

Also Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS:

“Y” Column

Graduate school catalogs and booklets giving information in regard to the various schools of the country, with exhibits of the three main seminaries in the South, are now on show at the Y, and ought to prove of use to those who are interested in graduate work of any sort. Drop by and make use of these catalogs.

The Vocational Guidance Institute got off to a good start, and the officers are well pleased with the interest shown by the student body. It is hoped that much benefit will come from this project, for then the work of the Y will be of vital interest to many more men than it has ever been before.

A big shipment of books from the Association Press has come in and will be for sale at the Y rooms. Among the lot are many well-known books, recognized for their value and worth, including “The Manhood of the Master,” Moffet’s “New Testament,” and many others. See if you couldn’t use some of these really worthwhile volumes.

Dr. Green has definitely decided to come and lead the group of spring services. These meetings will start the first Sunday in March and will be the annual Life Work Campaign for the second term. More will be given about these services a little later.

The ladies of Davidson, who have always supported the Y in every way possible, recently showed that their interest in the Y. M. C. A. has not declined any, by giving the Y a shower of useful articles and equipment, to aid the social side of its work, which includes plates, cups, silverware, etc. The Y has also procured a hot-plate, and is now offering it to the student body to use for little informal parties, and the like. It is things like this that can make life on the campus more pleasant and enjoyable, and it is with this in view that the Y is attempting to give fellows the opportunity to take advantage of these things. Don’t have any hesitancy in asking to use these things, but go by and speak to Jim Appleby about it.

COMING AGAIN
Due to the fact that Dr. Wade C. Smith will be unable to come to take charge of the Personal Work Conference, attempts will be made to secure someone else, who is fitted for that particular work. And more than likely Dr. Luther Little, of Charlotte, will be asked to come. Dr. Little is a well-known minister and is a most capable man, and will prove an able substitute.

Showing that Strouse line.
GWIN &

If You Are Going to be a Preacher...
You will find at Union Theological a place where the Bible is supreme, the indispensable book for the task of making preachers.

EVERY department of study deals with the Bible more or less directly. For example, the professor of Systematic Theology aims to present the cardinal doctrines of the Bible in an articulated system of truth; the professor of Religious Education endeavors to show how Biblical teachings can be brought home effectively to the “seven ages of man”; the professor of Church History traces the ways in which the doctrines of the Bible have worked themselves out in the Church on the field of history; and the professor of Missions as set forth in the Bible, and then surveys the operation of these Bible teachings in the missionary enterprises of the Church. Finally, three full departments of the Seminary are concerned entirely with the direct teaching of the Bible: (a) Old Testament Interpretation; (b) New Testament Interpretation; and (c) English Bible.

The Bible is thus the center of the whole curriculum at Union, and there is no theological seminary or Bible School or training school where the Bible is more and where the students are required to study it more diligently.

Underwear... Shirts... Neckwear... Hosiery... Mufflers... Handkerchiefs... Pajamas... Belts... Suspenders... Garters... Jewelry... all backed by our rigid guarantee, which insures authentic style and unfaltering quality... that’s what we offer men of this community better haberdashery. Let us assist you with your selections for the new season.

The Tate Brown Company

FEBRUARY 20, 21, 22
GALE HILLYARD
Let him show you the New Spring Woolens
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
February 20, 21, 22 at Miss Minnie’s

B.R. LACY, Jr., D. D., President
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Union Theological Seminary