4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1928

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.90 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN ... Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD ... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
JASON P. BROWN ... Managing Editor
W. K. CULLOUGH ... Managing Editor
J. B. MORTARITY ... Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE ... Athletic Editor
R. A. WILSON ... Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE ... Editor
F. C. WITHERS ... Editor
T. T. JONES ... Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH ... Alumni Editor
R. G. GRADY ... Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. ... Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON ... Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL ... Assistant Business Manager
P. G. HARRISON ... Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON ... Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS ... Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE ... Solicitor
R. M. McGAD ... Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. S. BAILEY ... President
F. B. BIGGS ... Vice-President
R. G. GRAHAM ... Secretary-Treasurer
J. P. ANDERSON
J. P. McBRYDE
S. R. COKER
W. McDERMID
A. T. EDELMAN
W. B. McQUEEN
ALLAN FREW
F. D. MILLER
P. B. FRY
V. A. MILTON
E. S. HEEFNER
R. T. NUNN
R. F. JARRATT
D. T. STOKES
R. W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
Z. V. LONG

EDITORIAL

ARE WE WORTH IT?

A recent article in the Wellesley Alumnae Magazine brought forth a few statements that seem rather unusual on first glance. Prof. H. R. Mussey, author of the article, states that the average Wellesley girl is costing the community not less than $2,700 a year. This figure is the result of a rather comprehensive study of the situation by Professor Mussey, and seems rather unusual when one considers some other figures by the side of it. According to a recent estimate, there was only one family in seven in the United States that had as much as $2,700 to spend for all purposes. Total figures for incomes in this country for 1926 proved that the average was $770 per capita of population. Therefore the average Wellesley student is costing approximately three and one-half times her per capita share of all the income available. With the above figures considered in their true proportion, one questions immediately “Are they worth it?”

The figures quoted above would not apply to the average student at this institution. Recent figures obtained by the alumni office proved that the average student here spent somewhat less than the amount given as an average for the Wellesley students. But the question again arises, “Are we worth it?”

The practical critic will respond immediately that no student is worth that. Their view will be clouded by the general conception of college students as encouraged by the giants of Hollywood. These critics will also be biased by a cursory glance at the curricula of certain institutions. These individuals are probably right when a certain type of college student is considered. But it should be remembered that the figures given were for the average student, and it is the average student that must be considered.

From a strictly practical and business viewpoint it does seem that there are a number of students graduated each year who are fitted for absolutely nothing of any purpose in the wider life of the world. There are extremely few “practical” courses in the average college, compared to the numerous theoretical and classical courses. A student is given his degree of “Bachelor of Arts,”— but the world wants to know what are his arts, and whether or not they are worth four or five thousand dollars in cold cash.

It must be remembered also that the business man is not interested merely in having returned his total investment, he is also anxious to know what interest and dividends he will be paid on his investments. It follows logically that institutions must turn out students who are worth more to the world than the actual cash invested in their securing an education.

This is indeed a goal towards which every college should work, but as they are working, individuals outside wonder what is their progress and whether that goal will ever be reached. If the whole situation is figured in terms of cold, hard cash, the answer to the problem would be “No.” But, to use Professor Mussey’s phrases, “It is life against life, and we of the college can maintain our self-respect in a community only as that community, looking at our graduates and what they do, and counting the cost of each new bachelor of arts as she joins the ranks of our alumnae, is able to say with some confidence, ‘She is worth it.’”

CREDIT FOR COLLEGIATE JOURNALISM

There has always been much discussion as to why students were not allowed college credit for the work done in various extra-curricular activities. It is obvious that credits would be impossible in a number of cases, but in the journalistic field there have always been some who have insisted that students should be credited with work done in this department. Clemson College has recently made an announcement through its department of English to the effect that next term seniors will be allowed three hours credit for work done on the student publications, if their work merits their passing the “course.”

Under the plan at Clemson the work will be credited under the head of journalism and will be granted for the first term only. If the work turns out successfully, the officials will allow the same type of work to be continued the second semester. The student must average three hours work a week on the publication to which he has been appointed or elected. The work which he does during this time will be passed on by the English department which will have the power to “disqualify a prospective recipient because of the inferiority of his work.”

It is generally believed that this plan will be a success. At least the students will be given practical problems and produce original work. It will also increase interest in the periodicals and assure the fact that all of the most competent men will be actively engaged in some field of journalistic endeavor. The main problem before a number of collegiate editors is that of inducing the most capable men, in a number of cases the seniors, to work for the various publications. The general case is that juniors and seniors not interested enough to enter active competition for the highest honor in that particular field usually drop completely out of the work and leave much of the work of a publication to five or six men. If credit is given for work on the various journals men will naturally be more interested in the type of work they produce. Men who otherwise would not be interested in this field of endeavor will also be drawn into it. With these numerous advantages, the collegiate journals should at once make noticeable improvement.

It is possible however, that the men taking such courses as the one outlined above will be inclined to loaf. A certain amount of this is to be expected in any college, but the increased ability of the larger staff should more than counteract this. With another southern college taking an action such as the one mentioned above, officials at Davidson might look into the situation to discover its merits, if there be any.

Open Forum

In last week’s Davidsonian someone inserted an editorial on the political situation that now exists at Davidson. Up until this time, although the evils of the present situation had been recognized on the campus, no one had dared to attack the evils that now exist. But now that there has been someone to start the attack, let us try to clear up the evils that are here before us. Please do not understand that I think that our situation is wholly bad but, like the writer of the editorial last week, I do feel that there are evils which should be removed. One of those evils being that sometimes a man gets an office not because he is the best man but because he happens to belong to the political bunch which happens to be swinging votes. Let us all get behind the writer in last week’s Davidsonian and proceed to elect the men best qualified for the offices without the taint of politics being on them.

Henry T. Powell, ’28.

There have been quite a number of debates lately between the male representatives of various institutions and the female representatives of other institutions. We merely wonder ifanyone has thought it necessary to formulate a special set of rules to govern these contests. Such as the forbidding to throw anything larger than a book.

Collegiate Comment

A ping-pong tournament has just been completed at Auburn. We see now why Auburn failed to have such a successful football season last fall. But still, they seem to have done quite well in basketball.

Four young Lochinvars from Ohio State are going into the West this summer. Whether they will ever return is a debatable question. They are accompanying 100 Vassar girls on a camping trip into the Rockies.

Professor Wolfenden, of Oberlin, has suggested that snappy sport roadsters be substituted for Phi Beta Kappa keys as a scholarship reward. Well, that’s economical at least. Then the various faculties could take them back since students are not allowed to possess cars.

The University of Oregon has issued a diploma to a Japanese student written in his native language. This was necessary since he needed the document to obtain a job. After June, there will be quite a number of students writing back to have their diplomas written in English, since they will be unable to explain to their employers what all the Latin phrases mean.

The University of Minnesota, through its department of physical education, has reached the remarkable conclusion that “college women do not know how to study.” They fail to mention the fact that possibly the men are suffering the same handicaps—particularly where the institution is co-educational.

Risks upon students being called upon in class are taken by a small Minnesota insurance company. Yes, we must say that education is advancing rapidly.

Two two-hour courses in spelling and writing are prerequisites for graduation from Indiana State Normal School. We await with intense interest the announcement of the first inter-collegiate spelling bee.

Nebraska is the latest school to elect two football captains for their team, one for the line and one for the backfield. If they keep on, we will have captains of the ends, tackles, etc.—the center, quarter, and full automatically elected to captain their positions.

A group of Cornell professors left last week for an extensive study of agricultural conditions in Porto Rico. Now that Lindbergh has been there with his nice messages, they have no fear of revolutionists.

The faculty of Mount Holyoke College has turned over the daily chapel services entirely to the students. They will conduct as they see fit. Which probably means that if anyone is up by that time, they will see fit not to go.

Flood conditions haven’t entirely disrupted the whole life of Mississippi. From recent successes, it seems as if overflowing waters are rather conducive to good basketball. The University of Mississippi recently won the S. I. C. basketball tournament, and Mississippi College emerged victorious in the S. I. A. A. championship meet.

Stanford University will dedicate its 1928 annual to Herbert Hoover, a graduate of that institution. That may mean a few votes for the genial secretary and then again it may not.

In lots of college papers... they use dots... whenever they want to fill up a few lines... It’s really not the best of ethics... and personally we don’t approve of them... but then they emphasize things a lot... and like some professors say... you get a lot of power from indefiniteness and pauses... like that...

At St. Mary’s, the young ladies of a sociology class decided that the feminine sex has as much right to propose as young men have. All right, let ’em do it, then start figuring who’s going to do the work in the family and get the essential shekels. But probably they don’t care to think of such vulgar things.

Nine members of the dramatic club at Alabama have made their debut on Broadway in the past few years, and one has met with great success in Hollywood. Which with Senator Heflin’s comedy in Washington a few weeks ago makes quite an imposing array of dramatists.

The senior class at Agnes Scott modestly asserts on the front page of their issue of the weekly paper that classes of their caliber and ability are few and far between. It’s nice to like ourselves, at any rate.

During the last two weeks, the co-eds of Willamette College have indulged in the fascinating sport of “Pursue the male.” This time was set apart as an “open season” for the gentler sex.

Out of Bounds

Thoughts while strolling—A silver cigarette box in a fraternity house which of course is just an open invitation to the parasitical brethren, Dr. Brown in grey flannels. I wonder what’s become of hat pins. A freshman reading a letter with an amorous gaze. A roommate with shaving cream. Another snappy stomp composed of doo-da-doos. One of those seniors who tries to expose an intellectual front to the world. Freshmen loaded with textbooks. Are all sophomores supercilious? Fraternity brothers who low-rate each other. A would-be janitor who shines shoes in the tonsorial shop. A Van Dyke beard. Two junior political rivals cracking jokes. Whatever became of stiff collars for students? Pieces of the tank on a truck, a passing landmark. Athletic aspirants loping about the track. Coach Monk razzing a disconcerted halfback. A junior taking music lessons. Laundry girls directed by Lord Helper. A Phi Beta Kappa salesman. Clara. Any number of mill gamin sons. Miss Maud. Bow half dressed, headed for school.

Every freshman has his personal idol, usually a senior and almost always athletically and socially favored. For a few months, he worships him and then inevitably disillusionment comes. Almost any little thing may cause the latter and it cuts the worshipper to the quick. As no exception to the rule, I had one of my own, a football star, a social success. And then one day I found that he was distinctly lacking in cooperation with the 18th amendment. It almost made a cynic of me.

There is always a certain number of upperclassmen who consider themselves intellectual. To substantiate the appearance, they publicly pursue The American Mercury or The Bookman, keep a volume of recent authorship constantly in hand, and hand down opinions on art and letters from a higher level. Usually, the opinion is incoherent but it tends to disclose a higher knowledge of the Muses. Really it’s just a nice way of being conceited, don’t you think?

The student finds innumerable ways to while away his moments and then in a pinch invariably lays the blame for a lack of knowledge upon a lack of time. Every year or two some industrious member of the younger generation breaks forth to invalidate that excuse. In recent years, one student paid his entire way through college, graduated in three and a half years, and entered life with a bank balance of six hundred dollars. And yet I have often seen him lolling about the drug store with gobs of precious moments to spare.

Janitors are a constant source of amusement. Perhaps it is because they seem to be intellectually inferior. As a matter of fact, their intellectual ability has as wide a range as that of the ordinary collegian and the more foggy may often find themselves the butt of their wisecracks. Still, the habit persists of drawing them into conversation, accusing them of hesitating in the street, or inquiring into their social activities. Most of the order find their social diversion through the medium of The Primrose Club, a social lodge which the local caretakers have organized. In its functions, it is not unlike a fraternity. There are secrets, an initiation, house parties, and everything. Now that’s a fast one on the Pan-Hellenic, isn’t it?

Professors and students are separated by a gulf as impassable as that between Tartarus and the Elysian Fields. Small schools like Davidson attempt to bring them together through limited numbers and personal supervision. Large universities make no such attempt but in the end achieve the point with even greater success. Where there is personal supervision, the honored instructor must maintain his dignity and the barrier is enormous. But in the expanded state of the university, the two classes may even go so far as to use profanity with one another, which of course is the height of familiarity.

Isn’t it funny how we live in a world of anticipation? For a week or more one may dream of coming pleasant events. Half of a man’s thoughts are a consideration of future events and happiness. But then when you retire tonight remember that you are one step nearer eternity which is food for thought.

In 1924, the United States sold in foreign lands more than twelve million dollars’ worth of musical instruments. No wonder Europe hates us.—Washington Dirge.

Have you heard the latest Scotch song, “Let the Rest of the World Go Buy.”—Washington Dirge.

“Ye know, Sandy; for two cents I’d throw this penny away.”—Green Goat.

“He reads the filthiest stuff possible!”
“Tabloids?”
“Nope—he’s a professional mind reader.”—N. Y. Med.