THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1928 -- Sport Talk -:- News and Views of Wildcat Events By Raymond Lake

Within the next few days, spring football will be over once again and practice on the old gridiron will be suspended till next fall. After looking at the candidates fight each other in the game last Saturday between the Reds and the Blacks, things do not look so gloomy as they might at first appear. Goodykoontz showed his speed and the other members of the Red team showed their ability to run interference when “Goody” ran for a touchdown on the first play of the game. Several other members of the two teams showed up well and both teams “fought to the finish.”

Baseball practice has been going on in full swing during the past week under the direction of Coach Monk Mattox. The pitchers and others have been working out every day and all seem to be in unusually good shape for this early in the season. Although it is too early to pick a team yet, several members of the squad have been showing up well and seem sure of a berth on the team. Littlejohn has shown much improvement over last year, both in fielding and hitting ability, and will probably hold down the shortstop position. Johnny Kugler has been working into shape for the last few days and will probably be shifted to second later in the season. Dulin is holding down his usual place at third, and there is no question about who will play this position. Crawford and Arrowood are working for the first sack position, and this place will be played by one of these two.

There are several candidates out for the hurler’s position, and although nothing very exceptional has shown up, several of these men will be hard to knock out of the box. Meadows, Henderson, McInnis, Kugler, Cathey, Maulden, and Hart have been working out for this position. The other part of the battery also is being sought for by several players. Grey, McGeachy, McAulay, Shaw, and Gladstone have stated their intention of playing this position and each of them is working earnestly to get the job permanently. As has been stated above, nothing exceptional has yet developed in the way of battery material, but candidates for the positions are plentiful, competition is sharp, and some good players will be developed before the season ends.

During the past week, several of those who started working out with the track squad at the first of the season have dropped out, and the squad has been automatically cut down a bit. Coach Tex is still working with Coach Monk on the gridiron prospects for next year, but track practice has been carried on regularly by Capt. John Currie and his cohorts. Coach Tex will be with the squad within the next week or so and things will begin to liven up a bit.

The freshman candidates have not begun their regular practice yet, but will probably begin work when spring football practice ends and Coach Monk Mattox will be free to work with them. The candidates have been called out, but have only been going through light workouts. There are always about 50 percent of the ones who think they can play baseball at the beginning of their college career who find that they are not so good when it comes time to do something more than merely catch a ball, and this year is no exception to the rule. About twice too many have turned out and the squad will have to be cut several times before it will be down to a workable size. About four men have already been cut from the varsity squad, reducing the number of candidates from about 29 to about 24.

It won't be so long now till time for the first game with the Oak Ridge team, and this team always is a good one. There are those who are already “itching” to see a game again and the loyal fans of the Wildcats won’t have much longer to wait for their first thriller.

That “King of Sports,” baseball, is taking a grip on the Wildcat’s lair that bids fair to bring about a season of rare excellence for Mr. Monk Younger and his bloodthirsty Cats. The aspirants for the nine have been working out regularly for one week now under the tutorship of “Monk” Mattox, who is conducting practice in the absence of Younger. The latter is busy at the present with spring football, but will take active charge in a week or two.

The Wildcat schedule for this season is one of the most ambitious ever undertaken by a Davidson team. It includes the best teams of the Carolinas and Virginia, as well as contests with the University of Pennsylvania and other outside teams. Oak Ridge Military Institute comes here for the first game on March 22.

As usual, Davidson is lacking in hurlers of a high caliber, but it is believed that Meadows, Cathey, and Maulden from last year’s varsity, and Kugler, McInnis, and Henderson from the freshman team of last season will furnish a hurling staff that will be able to hold up well enough if the team hits consistently. Maulden is the only southpaw in the bunch. McInnis gave great promise as a freshman twirler and is expected to bear a good part of the burden this year. English McGeachy, Bennie MacAuley, and Dick Grey are working out behind the plate, with “Geachy” probably getting the call on the basis of his experience last year.

In the infield, Crawford, Arrowood, Kugler, Harrison, Littlejohn, Cox, and Captain Dulin are competing for positions. Dulin, Littlejohn, Harrison, and Crawford seem to be the best bet at present. Kugler is a flashy fielder and good hitter and may be expected to break into the infield at any time. Two of the outfield positions are sure to fall to Ratchford and Johnson, both regulars from last season, but the other is in some doubt with “Whiz” Miller probably leading the field for it. Everything considered, the Wildcats should have the best team in several years. If the hurlers come through, and the infield can conquer its bad habits of fielding lapses, then the Cats ought to ride.

Freshman Matmen Are Given Numerals

Seven Freshmen were awarded monograms in wrestling at a recent meeting of the Athletic Council. These men were: C. B. McKeithan, J. R. Estridge, T. L. Umphlett, Hub Covington, J. F. Preston, French Cowan, and W. P. Boyle. These men filled up the seven divisions on the fresh wrestling team during the past season. The schedule for the frosh was not extensive, only three matches being held during the entire season. The fresh won all of these matches, however. Two were held with Barium Springs and one with R. J. Reynolds High School of Winston-Salem. The Reynolds team has an excellent record in state high school circles, having defeated the strong team from Greensboro High twice. The Barium Springs team was also a formidable aggregation, giving the first-year men a good fight before they were defeated. Estridge was the outstanding man for the yearlings, winning all of his matches. The highlight of the year was when Estridge threw his opponent in 15 seconds in one match. Preston proved to be a valuable man also, being undefeated throughout the season. The fresh matmen will prove a valuable addition to the varsity squad next year and will help to fill in the holes left vacant by Captain Garrison and Pritchett. No announcement has been made concerning the schedule for the fresh wrestling team next year.

Wildcat Grapplers Elect Garrison the Only Loss to 1929 Squad

Tom E. Hill, of Richmond, Va., was elected captain of the wrestling team for next year after the student body meeting last Monday morning. Captain Garrison conducted the election for his successor. W. H. Flythe, bantam-weight wrestler and consistent winner, was nominated also but on spreading the ballot, Hill was declared winner. Hill has been a mainstay on the squad for two years, gaining his place in the 175-pound class early in his sophomore year. He also wrestled in the unlimited class during that season and made a very creditable showing against heavier and more experienced opponents. This year, he has held down the heavyweight division and has won victories in all but two matches, the most important ones being over Captain Seigleman of Washington and Lee, and Day of North Carolina State. Only one man is lost to the grapplers this year but that one is the undefeated Captain Garrison and will be a heavy loss to the team. With the material from this year’s team and some promising freshmen, the season under Captain-elect Hill promises to be a successful one.

Tennis Team Plans for Southern Trip

This year the tennis team is planning an extended trip into South Carolina and Georgia to cover a period of approximately two weeks. As soon as the new courts are completed, the team will begin practice in earnest. The schedule includes matches with some of the best teams in the South and promises to be one of the most successful seasons in recent years.

Freedom of Speech Asked by Editor of “The New Student”

Boston, Mass. (By New Student Service) — That absolute freedom must be granted the college press if it is to become a forceful and responsible factor in...Student opinion was the contention of Norman Studer, editor of “The New Student,” in a speech before the twelfth annual meeting of the National Association of Deans of Women at Boston. Mr. Studer would have college authorities and student governing officials keep their hands off the college press. His speech was delivered before a meeting of over 300 deans of women from all parts of the country. College editors here and there have been demanding more freedom to criticize the college and their teachers, according to the editor of “The New Student.” This new spirit of criticism, which has only appeared in college journalism since the war, is continually bringing on conflicts between editors and college authorities. “During the past five months, for instance, there have been five major cases of editors dismissed for outspoken editorials.”

“Here we have an attitude that is all too uncommon that in my estimation is the only attitude for the enlightened executive. Any other course will be disastrous to the growth of a sense of responsibility and a spirit of true leadership that a free press ensures. One college president recently made what would seem to be a very innocent qualification to the right of free expression but which is actually a dangerous weapon for a college president to wield. He said that he reserved the right to censor student expression that went beyond good taste. Another president told a conference of school editors recently that he was heartily in favor of full liberty for college editors, with restrictions only when the publications assume so radical a stand that the good name of the school is actually at stake. These two definitions of freedom are merely a license for any sort of censorship that those in power care to impose. It leaves a gap as wide as a barn door for the censor. This is not a new attitude of liberalism but merely another way of phrasing the old attitude. Until a college president says that he will tolerate poor taste in his college editors for the sake of developing their responsibility, I cannot take his liberalism very seriously. That is the only sort of point of view that should exist in a really enlightened college. There are liberal laws, and laws against obscene literature that ought to suffice for the college community. For the canons of taste are too relative to apply in these matters.”

Captain for Next Year

Elected captain of the wrestling team for 1928-29 at a meeting of the squad held already, the candidates for the team will obtain the necessary practice, and immediately a tournament will be played.

Reds Defeat Blacks in Spring Football Contest

According to Coach Monk Younger, the candidates for spring football are now being drilled in the fundamentals of the game, namely in blocking, tackling, running interference, punting, and passing. A game was played last Saturday on the varsity field between the Reds and the Blacks. A good brand of football was offered by the two teams but the Blacks came out with a one-touchdown margin. There are about 35 men out for the spring training and the prospects for next year look bright. Goodykoontz looked good in his run down the length of the field for a touchdown. Sam Black and Jim Hammett looked like a couple of well-seasoned players and should be ready to work hard in the fall. “Sloppy” David made a few nice runs but failed to get loose for a winning touchdown. Although the game was hard-fought and fairly well played on both sides, there was an apparent lack of the old Davidson fight. This, with practice in the fall, will be evident. At times a strong drive was shown by members of the opposing teams and the spirit would burst forth in case either team drew too near the goal. The present plans are to have a regular football game between the Reds and the Blacks every Saturday afternoon until the close of the training period. The teams are purposely very evenly matched and much interest is shown as to the winner. The coaches desire to have the practice continue for about three more weeks.

Fresh Basketball Team Back After 5-Day Trip

Squad Gives Keen Competition But Fails to Gain Lead Over Other State Teams

The Freshman basketball team made its annual trip through the state last week. Leaving by bus Tuesday at noon, the basketeers played their first game with Oak Ridge, losing by a close score. Rusk was high scorer for the visitors with 15 points, while Pierce led for Oak Ridge. Wednesday night the Wildkittens met the N. C. State Freshmen at Raleigh, again suffering defeat. McCall and Goodson showed up especially well for Davidson, while Boyette led the scoring for his team. Goodson played a consistently good game throughout the trip. The next game was played at Wake Forest Thursday night, and won by the home team. Scoring the first two periods was close, but the Baby Deacons got a safe lead in the third quarter. Friday night the Wildkittens suffered their worst defeat at the hands of Duke, the Blue Imps getting a wide lead from the opening period. Below are the box scores of the games:

Davidson (25) Position Oak Ridge (33)
McCall (4) R. F. Abernathy (4)
Rusk (15) L. F. Wilson (2)
Morris (4) Center Pierce (13)
Goodson (4) R. G. Wilson (1)
Proctor L. G. Faulkner (7)

Score by quarters: 6-12-21-25 11-17-27-33

Substitutes—Davidson: Goodykoontz, McAlister, Marks, Overman. Oak Ridge: Skinner, Lane, Solomon, Henry (4), Beaver.

Davidson (24) Position N.C. State (37)
McCall (11) R. F. Boyette (16)
Rusk (4) L. F. Mullin (14)
Wilson (5) Center Taylor (10)
Goodson (6) R. G. Lewis (4)
Proctor (3) L. G. Brookshire

Score by quarters: 10-13-19-26 12-18-32-40

Substitutions—Davidson: Overman (2), McAllister. Wake Forest: Ferbee, Byerley, Covington, Edwards, Gregson (5).

Davidson (24) Position Duke (52)
McCall (9) R. F. Crouch (2)
Rusk (13) L. F. Rogers (18)
Wilson Center Crowson (3)
Goodson (4) R. G. Schlosbach (16)
Proctor L. G. Haines (4)

Score by quarters: 4-10-18-24 19-32-41-52

Substitutions—Davidson: Overman (2), McAllister. Duke: Staton (9), Allford, Moore, Watson, Widenhouse, Atkins.

“No, your husband can’t play in this production with you.”
“But I love my husband and cannot be separated from him.”
“You may love him now; but what if you start divorce proceedings before we finish the film?” — Louisville Courier-Journal.

Mother—“George, you know that unbreakable toy you gave Dick for his birthday?”
Father—"Yes; is it broken?”
“No; but he’s broken about everything else in the place with it.”—Answers, London.