October 11, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

TERRIER VS. WILDCAT—A BATTLE!

CAT TRAX RAMPANT WILDCATS BOB McMILLAN OAK RIDGE CADETS

NEWER COR WILDCATS DAVIDSON HALF AS THEY FOLLOW THE USE STEAM ROLLER ON TAME WILDKITTENS

Saturday next will see another invasion—RED AND BLACK TACTICS ON ELON IN OPENING GAME

Fast Davidson Backs Break Powerful Attack of Visitors Nets

Loose Time After Time to Two Touchdowns and Victory

The way that hungry crew of Wildcats tore into their Elon visitors last Saturday was positively ungentlemanly, and the way they sailed through, over, and around the Christians was a sight to behold. It was the greatest score amassed by a Davidson team since Monk took charge here, and it was a great relief to his gloomy soul.

Displaying offensive power which had not been shown before, the Wildcats rolled up a 52 to 0 score over the Elon Christians last Saturday. It was the second victory in three starts for the Davidson team. The ’Cats showed wonderful team-work at all times, with the forwards consistently opening wide holes in the Christian line for the backs to drive through. And often these backs emerged into an open field and raced many yards before they could be stopped by Elon men.

The scoring started in the first quarter when Brock broke through to block an Elon punt, the Wildcats recovering on their two-yard line and Black plunged through for the first score of the game. A 56-yard march down the field enabled Brohard to score a few minutes later. Brock place-kicked the extra point. In the closing minutes of this period McMillan brought the stands to their feet with a sensational 70-yard sprint for a touchdown. Catching a punt on his 30-yard line and with perfect interference, McMillan brought the score to 19-0 in favor of the ’Cats as the quarter ended.

Elon made seven yards in three attempts as the second bracket opened. Another punt was blocked and it was Davidson's ball on their 41-yard line. On the next play Dick Flinn side-stepped and twisted through the Elon team for the remaining 41 yards and a touchdown. Later in this period the ball changed hands in the shadow of the Elon goal. The visitors kicked to Goodykoontz on the 35-yard line and he returned it for the fifth touchdown of the contest.

The Wildcats scored again in the third period, but it was a remarkable drive. Suffering a 25-yard penalty for clipping from behind, they received the ball on their 12-yard line. In 13 plays, which included two dashes of over 20 yards by Kell and one by Flinn, Brohard scored. He passed to Kell for the extra point.

As the fourth quarter opened Davidson launched a 65-yard drive, with Goodykoontz clipping off the last 15 for a touchdown. Estridge drop-kicked the extra point. After Estridge had returned the next kickoff 55 yards the remaining 25 were made in short order, Flinn scoring the last touchdown of the game. Covington drop-kicked for the extra point.

Davidson’s win was costly, for McCall, who made some pretty gains, broke his arm in the second quarter and will be lost to the team for some time.

It’s hard to try and pick the stars for the Wildcats. It seems that the lineup and substitutions contain their names. Each man that saw action Saturday deserves credit for the team-work displayed by the Davidson team. The Elon defense was led by Zeiger, end, and Newman, halfback, who were often the ones that finally stopped the fast-stepping backs of Coach Monk’s.

The lineup and summary follows:

Elon (0) Position Davidson (52)
Rollins ------------------------- Brock
Left End
Smith -------------------------- Hill
Left Tackle
Merritt ------------------------ Parker
Left Guard
Hardy (c) ---------------------- McConnell
Center

The Wildkittens lost to Oak Ridge and they lost good and proper. But it must be remembered that the first game of any season is a tough one, especially to new men who have not worked together. Oak Ridge presented a fast, heavy team, that would have done credit to many a college varsity. These prep school boys have a big advantage in playing with each other.DeCamp for a long time. Next game will be a better test for Buck Miles and his bunch.

Right Guard: Baker (c)
Right Tackle: Zeigler
Right End: Walker
Quarterback: Newman
Left Halfback: Boyd
Right Halfback: Latham
Fullback: Black

Just to be in line with all progressive columns, we shall venture a few predictions as to the outcome of this week’s games. You won't agree to some of them, but it is good sport to try to figure 'em. Look these over:

N. C. State over Clemson—State due to come back after bad loss to W. and L.
Davidson over Wofford—Close game—Monk expects to win by a safety.
Citadel over Newberry—Easy win for the Cadets.
William and Mary over Wake Forest—Two touchdowns.
V. M. I. over Roanoke—No trouble for the Soldiers.
U. N. C. over Harvard—Carolina’s flashy attack will win. Harvard not very powerful.
Boston College over Duke—Might go either way, but we pick Boston because the desire for revenge will make the Bean Eaters fight hard, and by now they know Duke's style of play.

Davidson: 19 12 7 14—52
Elon: 0 0 0 0—0

Scoring touchdowns: Black, Brohard 2, McMillan, Flinn 2, Goodykoontz 2; scoring extra points: Brock (placement), Kell (pass from Brohard), Estridge (dropkick), R. Covington (dropkick); first downs: Elon 2, Davidson 19; penalties: Elon 5 yards, Davidson 35 yards; substitutes: Elon, Dofflemyer, Hughes, Williams, Clarke, Collier; Davidson: Flinn, Goodykoontz, Archie, H. Covington, McCall, Fraley, Middleton, Peterson, Coble, Mason, Christian, Harper, Smith, Parrish, Regen, Kerr, Mills, Leftwich, Estridge, Boyle, R. Covington. Officials: Brice (Auburn) referee; Kirkpatrick (N. C. State), McIntosh (Mass. Aggies), head-linesman.

CLASSES START CAGE PRACTICE

Practice for class basketball started Monday afternoon. As yet the schedule has not been arranged, but the first game will probably be played in the middle of the coming week. The plan used last year is expected to fill the stands. Each team plays the other three teams twice, making a total of six games that each class will play. The team with the greatest number of games is judged the winner. Last year’s champions were the Sophomores, who did not lose a game. Class basketball season lasts until the middle of November, when varsity and freshman basketball begins. The Senior team is under the direction of M. T. Gilmour and M. L. Crawford. F. W. Johnson is coaching the Junior team. A coach for the Sophomores has not yet been selected. R. G. Calhoun has charge of the Freshmen.

KITTENS ON DEFENSIVE

King Makes Good Showing for Young Cats—Team Shows Lack of Experience

Launching a powerful offensive, the Oak Ridge Cadets plowed through the Wildkittens to score a 13 to 0 victory. The scoring started early in the game before the Kittens got together. The first score of the game was made after eight minutes of play. Marching down the field for a drive of 52 yards, the Cadets placed the ball in scoring distance and Landis plunged over for the first touchdown scored against the Davidson Freshmen this year. Allmand place-kicked for the extra point.

For the remainder of the first half, the Wildkittens kept the heavier team from Oak Ridge from countering again. King, at fullback for the Fresh, did the majority of the tackling. Flashy little Halfback, who thrilled the crowd Saturday with his 70-yard sprint.

The second touchdown was the result of a 65-yard march down the field with Wilson plunging through Davidson's center for the final score of the game. Davidson’s chances were nipped by Perkins, who intercepted a long pass in the fourth quarter. Oak Ridge made 18 first downs to two for the Wildkittens. The first downs for Davidson were made on the last play of the third quarter, and the other following immediately on the next play.

The lineup and summary follows:

Oak Ridge (13) Position Davidson (0)
Left End: King Raker
Left Tackle: Perkins Hudgins
Left Guard: Shelby Conway
Center: McDade Milton
Right Tackle: Powell Baker
Right End: Allmond Goodson
Quarterback: Landis Lane
Left Halfback: Chandler Bradshaw
Right Halfback: Wilson King
Fullback: Wilson

Scoring touchdowns: Landis, Wilson; extra point: placement, Allmond; first downs: Oak Ridge 18, Davidson 2; penalties: Oak Ridge 40 yards, Davidson 45 yards; officials: Brice (Auburn) referee; Crayton (Davidson) umpire; Pritchett (Tennessee) headlinesman.

Joe McCall's injury in the Elon game was a blow to Wildcats. Wofford's slashing victory over Erskine last weekend gave considerable power to the hopes of loyal Terriers. The Methodist line of this year has more weight and speed than in previous years, the backfield is composed of veterans, and the team as a unit has worked well. Davidson has met only one really strong team thus far. This team, the Clemson Tigers, was able to score one touchdown on the Wildcats, but that was the margin of victory, since the lighter "Cats found it impossible to penetrate the massive Tigers. Call, speedy back, who was injured in the clash with Elon, the Davidson team is in good shape. Younger will bend every effort to win from the Terriers. A Wofford team has never defeated a Davidson eleven, and so the red-clad warriors must be doubly alert to prevent a blow to this record of steady victories. Davidson's lineup will probably be as follows: Brock, left end; Archie, left tackle; Harper, left guard; McConnell, center; Smith, right guard; Baker, right tackle; David, right end; McMillan, quarterback; Flinn, left half; Black, fullback; Brohard, right half.

Brand No. 1—“Well, I don't know”
Brand No. 3—(OLD GOLD) “I like this!”

The test was conducted by Adolphe Menjou, debonair, sophisticated Paramount star, one of the greatest living actors, appeared recently in “His Tiger Lady", “Night of Mystery” and “Serenade”.

Why you can pick them

Three types of leaves grow on the tobacco plant: coarse top-leaves, irritating to the throat; withered ground-leaves, without taste or aroma; and the heart-leaves, rich in cool and fragrant smoking qualities. Only the heart-leaves are used in OLD GOLDS.

Adolphe Menjou picks OLD GOLD as the camera records the blindfold test. He was asked to smoke each of the four leading brands, clearing his taste with coffee between smokes. While the camera recorded the test, only one question was asked: "Which one do you like best?"

“I’ve discovered a new way of mixing business and pleasure. The parts I play call for the constant smoking of a cigarette. I probably average one cigarette to every hundred feet of film. In the blindfold test, I discovered one so smooth, so considerate of my tongue and throat that even the business of wholesale smoking while we’re shooting scenes will be a pleasure. The cigarette I voted for proved to be OLD GOLD.”

Made from the heart-leaves of the tobacco plant
SMOOTHER AND BETTER
“NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD”