November 8, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

AN CZ Social Functions Feature Press Convention

Approximately one hundred representatives from various schools and colleges in North Carolina were the guests of the publications of Davidson College at the fall meeting of the North Carolina Inter-collegiate Press Association, held at Davidson from November 1 to 3. Many social affairs were planned and given in honor of the delegates.

The first affair of a social nature was the reception on Thursday afternoon at 5:00 o'clock at Fraternity Court where the fraternities were joint hosts to the visitors. The guests, passing from house to house, were served with punch and sandwiches. Young lady visitors presided at the punch bowls. There were no receiving lines. The hosts, assisted by the Beaver Club, introduced the visitors.

Having thus been initiated into the social life of the convention, the visitors were conducted to the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel and there were honored with a banquet. Charles Pratt, a Junior at Davidson and vice-president of the Press Association, presided as toastmaster. Dr. Daniel, of Clemson College English department, addressed the gathering on the topic, “The Joyous Life.” Music was furnished by the “Sunnyland Serenaders.”

On Saturday, the convention was complimented with a luncheon at the Myers Park Country Club in Charlotte. The luncheon, of a very informal nature, was featured by a delightful program of solo dances and dance music. Music was furnished by the New Yorker Jazz Band.

Following the luncheon at the Myers Park Country Club, the visitors were served tea at Queens College. The Queens girls were hostesses and entertained the conventioners for an hour. Continuing the round of entertainment in their honor, the visitors were guests in the evening at 7:30 at a dinner and dance at the Hotel Charlotte. The dinner was served in five courses. The dance was held in the main ballroom on the mezzanine floor. The tables were attractively decorated with the colors of the Association, and light was furnished by shaded candles. Leather notebooks were given as souvenirs. The young ladies were attired in dinner frocks. The affair was informal. A special feature of the occasion was a group of numbers by a colored sextet. The music for dancing was furnished by the Crayton Orchestra of Charlotte.

While guests at Davidson for the Press Convention, the visitors were entertained with two theater parties, one at the Davidson Theater and one at the Carolina Theater in Charlotte. Throughout the convention, there was noted a spirit of congeniality. With the assistance of the Beaver Club, the visitors were informed of the Davidson traditions and became acquainted with the Davidson spirit. It was pleasant to see the young visitors on the Davidson campus.

Scabbard and Blade Initiations

On last Wednesday evening, the Scabbard and Blade honorary military fraternity was entertained in the home of Captain and Mrs. Elkins, honoring the initiates. Chicken salad and sherbet were served. Those initiated were: S. L. Black, R. G. Calhoun, W. L. Dumas, G. H. Greer, G. E. Herriot, W. M. Long, D. F. Martin, E. P. McConnell, W. E. Phifer.

Davidson Book Club Meets

On Tuesday evening, the Davidson Music Club had its regular meeting in the Civic League Hall. Mrs. T. L. Lingle was in charge of the program. She was assisted by Mrs. Pritchett. The program was on Schubert.

Glee Club House Warming

On Monday evening, the Glee Club entertained its members at an informal house warming in their new social room in Eu Hall. Vocal and instrumental numbers were features. Coffee, tea, and sandwiches were served.

Assistants For All Of College Courses

Every year at Davidson, a number of men are chosen as reading and laboratory assistants. Their duties are to correct written papers and reviews and to assist in the direction of laboratory work. They are chosen by the faculty from applications made in the spring. They are as follows:

Bible—Halverstadt, A. N., Dr. Sentelle; Helm, D. F., Professor Foreman; Long, W. M., Dr. Richards.
Business—Kennedy, R. M., Firkland, D.
Chemistry—Davidson, H. S.
Economics—Martin, D. F.
Education—Greene, G. H.
English—Boggess, R. A., Professor Lilly; Miller, F. D., Professor Lilly; Brown, A. N., Dr. Shewmake; Cannon, D. F., Professor Cumming; Geer, B. O., Professor Beatty; Long, Z. V., Dr. Shewmake.
French—Albright, C. Love, M. E.
German—Brown, S. Y.
Greek—Pritchett, W. K.
Mathematics—Cowan, A. W., Moriarty, J. B.
Latin—Knox, Dr. Grey and Professor Beatty; P. and H.; Albright, C. J., Hall, F.
Philosophy—Hill, W. E.
Psychology—Melton, J. W.
Spanish—Ghigo, F.
History—Dumas, W. L., Harrison, W. W., Mayo, H. B., Phifer, W. J.

“Doesn't your choir sing at the prison any more?”
“No. Several of the prisoners objected on the ground that it wasn’t included in their sentences.”

Judge—“Why have you not made these alimony payments?”
Defendant—“I can’t start till week after next, Judge. There are still two installments due on the engagement ring.” —Life.

At the Concert
“What are they playing?”
“Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony.”
“Goodness! Are we that late?”—Selected.

Building Foreman—“Excuse me, but are you the lady wot’s singing?”
Lady—“Yes, I was singing. Why?”
Foreman—“Might I ask you not to hold the high notes so long? The men have knocked off twice, mistaking it for the noon whistle.”

Customer—“I'd like to see some good second-hand cars.”
Salesman—“So would I.”—Ex.

$1,000 Offered for Only One Sentence

Why write home for money? Here's an easier way out. The Music Industries Chamber of Commerce, 45 West 45th Street, New York City, offers $1,000 for a good, snappy sentence of only a few words, provided they are the right words. This sum is the prize to be paid for the slogan best expressing the thought that music is a prime means of self-expression and culture and that there are hours of pleasure in store for those who learn to play some sort of a musical instrument. No limit is put on the number of words in any slogan submitted, but contestants are reminded that the best slogans are short ones and that a single sentence, if brief and peppy, “packs a punch” more powerful than a whole volume of words.

Anyone is eligible to enter the contest and there is no limit upon the number of slogans any one person may submit, provided they are mailed to the Music Industries Chamber of Commerce before January 1, the closing date of the contest. The judges who will decide the winner are S. L. Rothafel, (“Roxy”) New York movie impresario; Dr. Frank Crane, journalist-essayist; and Frank Presbrey, advertising authority.

Leaflets explaining the contest may be obtained at any music dealer’s or from the Chamber direct.

Fine Outdoor Sport

Riga, Latvia—Two German students of the Latvian University died after a duel of honor in the forest on the outskirts...of the University. The duel was carried out with pistols. It was said here that the duel had been sanctioned by the court of honor of the students' corporation. One of the duelists died en route to the hospital. The other was killed almost instantly.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Wildcat Belts
W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Many New Books Added To Library
Types of Every Kind of Writings Are Included

Among the more recent additions to the library are to be found many varied types of books. A partial list of those added during the summer and fall follows:

Mystic Italy, by Michael L. Rostovtzeff.
Germany Ten Years After, by George H. Danton.
The Prime Ministers, by Hon. Clive Bigham.
A Shorter Physical Geography, by Emmanuel De Martonne.
Principles of Highway Engineering, by Carroll Carson Wiley.
Primitive Hearths in the Pyrenees, by Ruth Otis and Ida Treat.
Spain from the South, by J. B. Trend.
Chinese Missions, by Joseph J. Taylor.
Art, by Clive Bell.
Many Minds, by Maurice Hutton.
Principles of Inland Transportation, by Stuart R. Daggett.
The Book of Humorous Verse, by Carolyn Wells.
Bryan, the Great Commoner, by J. C. Long.
American Prosperity, Its Cause and Consequences, by Paul M. Mazur.
New Essays, by Oliver Goldsmith.
The Formation of the Greek People, by A. Jarde.
Count Luckner, the Sea Devil, by Lowell Thomas.
The Log of Bob Bartlett, by Captain Robert A. Bartlett.
Money, Bank Credit, and Prices, by Lionel D. Edie.
The Naval Side of British History, by Geoffrey Callendar.
Handbook of Greek Constitutional History, by A. H. J. Greenridge.
Intercollegiate Song Book.
The Coming Sense of Music, by Sigmund Spaeth.
European Literature in the Nineteenth Century, by Benedetto Croce.
The Republican Party, by William Starr Myers.
The Democratic Party, by Frank R. Kent.
Naturalist’s Guide to the Americas.
History of Art, by Walter Pach.
Essays, by Christopher Morley.
Sir Walter Raleigh, by Milton Waldman.
Hunger Fighters, by Paul de Kruif.
The Women Who Make Our Novels, by Grant M. Overton.
As I Knew Them, by Henry L. Stoddard.
The New Balkans, by Armstrong.
The Men Who Make Our Novels, by Charles C. Baldwin.
Strange Interlude, by Eugene O'Neill.
D. L. Moody, a Worker in Souls, by Gamaliel Bradford.
Home to Harlem, by Claude McKay.
When West Was West, by Owen Wister.
A Literary Wight, by Duff.
The Campers, by Gill.
Andrew Jackson, by Gen. W. Johnson.
Letters and Memoirs, by Susan Anns (Bartlett) Warner.
Oliver Phelps Stokes.
Sonnets to Craig, by George Sterling.
Modern English in the Making, by George H. McKnight.
The People of Asia, by L. Buxton.
Hamilton Fish, by H. Dudley.
History of Rome, by F. Robert Cooley.
Lyric Pioneers, by Solomon Liptzin.
The History of the Pharaohs, by Arthur Weigall.
Beau Ideal, by Percival Wren.
Sweden's Best Stories.
Farewell to Youth, by Storm Jameson.
Francis Joseph, by Eugene Bagger.
Sir Robert Peel, by A. A. W. Ramsay.
The Native Problem in Africa, by Raymond Leslie Buell.
Lenin, by Valeriu Marcu.
Norway's Best Stories.
Talleyrand, by Anna Bowman Dodd.

With The Other Colleges

Come Back Chickens
University of Arizona—An irreparable setback to the chances of the University of Arizona for national prestige has been dealt. Last week five valuable hens, who were leading their pens in egg-laying, which in turn were ahead of the entire United States in the national egg-laying contest, were stolen. This was a fatal blow to the University’s prospects for the first place in the national contest, as without the record of these five birds, the poultry farm’s chances are practically destroyed. According to Harry Embleton, head of the poultry department, the University has spent $5,000 on the poultry farm and its blooded fowls in four years, the eggs from the original stock of the stolen hens costing $10 apiece. The poultry department has been carefully breeding select stock in order to win the national contest. Each year its entrants have come a little closer to doing so, and the goal was expected to be reached this year. The contest runs for an entire year, but the scores have not been computed since August, at which time Arizona was leading the nation. The records of these birds for the remainder of October would have been essential for winning, as the nearest contestants are only a few eggs behind.

Big Doings
Ohio State University—"Ohio State Day,” to be observed by alumni of Ohio State University throughout the country, was fixed as Friday, December 7, by John B. Fullen, alumni secretary at the University.

Yale’s Holidays
Yale University—Yale clears the decks for two big autumnal days this year. Students will have no classes of any sort on Saturday, November 17, and Saturday, November 24. The first day is the day when Yale goes to Princeton to play football and the second day is the day when Harvard invades New Haven for the same purpose.

Baptists Fight
Minneapolis—Two years of controversy among Minnesota Baptists over Carleton College at Northfield, Minn., was brought to an end by the decision of the convention to sever affiliation with the institution at the close of the school year. The convention voted 172 to 135 a short time ago to adopt a minority report of a special committee which has been investigating charges of Dr. W. B. Riley, pastor of the First Church, at Minneapolis, that Carleton College was “no longer an orthodox institution” and that it is “frankly liberal, with a tendency to unitarianism.”

Davidson Book & Stationery Co.
New Management
Where Courtesy and Service are Dominant Factors --- New Personnel
Make Our Store Your Headquarters
“EVERYTHING THE STUDENT NEEDS”

Such popularity must be deserved!

Down deep in the Kongo the native sons believe that anybody who has an explorer for dinner will absorb all the brains, courage and other success-assuring virtues of the unfortunate victim.

We wish we could say the same of Chesterfields—that all their popularity is conferred upon whosoever smokes them. Frankly, however, this is not invariably true. Several Chesterfield smokers have recently been discovered who are not ambassadors, steel kings, or even bank presidents. But—since Chesterfields are so satisfying, mild and different—we'll all of us continue to enjoy them for these sound smoke-virtues alone.

Popularity? Six million smokers are enjoying 'em today. Such popularity must be deserved. Make it six million and one?

CHESTERFIELD
MILD enough for anybody... and yet... THEY SATISFY
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO Co.