THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

Undergrads’ Plague and Seniors’ Joy Evacuates
Semi-Annual Examinations Become Relic of the Past

Semi-annual discomfitures in the form of exams became a relic of the past for the fall term of this year
anyway when the fast Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors, and some few Seniors folded their Dixie Pads, put the cap on their
fountain pens, and joyfully evacuated Chambers building last Saturday afternoon.

Some had enjoyed writing their small knowledge of William Shakespeare, others took great delight in transcribing Anglo-Saxon into present-day good
English, still others wrote page after page in appreciation of the modern drama while Freshmen and Sophomores answered a few
questions on literature and usage and such things of import.

But this set of exams was just a taste of what had preceded for nine days, during which time joyful
Seniors traveled to distant places to do things and meet people. Others not so fortunate as to have gained exemptions
stayed on the Hill and earnestly vowed that next term will bring exemptions to them likewise.

Students generally resolved that they won't let work pile upon them until the last few minutes before exams and that
each lesson of the day will be fully prepared so as to escape execution in class, but several days will
probably see these good intentions filed away as they see “just one more show” and then to work. Thieving procrastination
will soon make his appearance, according to wise Seniors, and tasks will appear more easily accomplished if delayed until tomorrow.
But industrious Sophomores, diligent Juniors, and inexperienced Freshmen contend that such shall not be and in the next moment try
to borrow a quarter so that they may see why “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.”

“The Divine Woman” is Coming Feature

The management of the Davidson Theater has been very fortunate in getting a number of very entertaining pictures for next
week. Two of these are particularly outstanding, “Old Ironsides” and “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.” The latter is one of the most
popular pictures of the season, while “Old Ironsides” is equally entertaining. Both of these are highlights among the new pictures.
Richard Barthelmess in “The Noose” and Greta Garbo in “The Divine Woman,” which will be on later in the week,
are both very highly esteemed by critics and are said to be excellent.

The program for next week is as follows:
Thursday, February 2—Ruth Taylor in “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.”
Friday, February 3—“The Noose,” Richard Barthelmess.
Saturday, February 4—A good Western.
Monday and Tuesday, February 6 and 7—“Old Ironsides,” with a star cast.
Wednesday, February 8—Greta Garbo in “The Divine Woman.”

Phi Gamma Deltas Hold 79th Meeting

The 79th convention of the fraternity of Phi Gamma Delta was held at West Baden Springs, Indiana, on December 28th,
29th, 30th, and 31st. The convention was attended by over five hundred graduates and undergraduates of the fraternity. Carl (Bobby)
Long, of the class of ‘21, J. S. Foster, Jr., and M. C. O'Neal were the representatives of the local
chapter.

The convention held its first session in the atrium of the well-known West Baden Springs Hotel. The president of the
fraternity, Horace I. Brightman, called the meeting to order, and business sessions of every type were held. Among the chief
speakers of the sessions was Secretary of the Treasury, Andrew W. Mellon.

Many forms of entertainment were provided by the chapters in the state of Indiana for the delegates to the conclave.
The most interesting divertissement was the visiting of the spa from which the far-famed Pluto Water flows and a New
Year’s dance at which many of Indiana's best-looking girls were present.

A convention similar to the one held during the holidays is held every year and a half. The next convention,
by vote of the delegates present, will be held in Boston, Mass., during the latter part of the summer of
1929.

Wildcats Busy as Examinations End

The various athletic teams which have been idle during the mid-year examination...To the Junior Speaking week, which is to be
held sometime during the spring, there will be issued a special Junior number of “The Davidsonian.” This issue of the
paper will be devoted almost entirely to the Junior class; it will contain, among other things, news of the activities
of the class and of its accomplishments, a history of it, and perhaps cuts of its various officers and prominent
men. This paper, according to the purpose of the committee in charge, will be a much larger and finer edition
than the regular “Davidsonian.” It will be composed of 12 or more pages and will be worked up and arranged
in the best possible way by a number of sub-committees, each of which will have individual charge of some part
of the paper. Raymond Lake has been appointed editor of this issue, and he, together with a number of helpers,
is at work on the task of getting together this special number.

The period will take up their activities where they left off before examinations with a total of five athletic encounters
for this week, including the two contests yesterday. Spring football began here with an entirely new note when Coach Monk
Younger announced that he would allow but 50 candidates to report for practice as opposed to the hundred odd men
who reported last year, who then, having been issued equipment, began to drop out by twos and threes. Those candidates
allowed to report for practice will be men carefully picked from among those who participated in football during the past
season. In addition, there will be approximately 20 men who will be recruited from among the ranks of the last
Freshman squad. The practice, which began on January 20th, is scheduled to continue for a period of six weeks. More
definite plans will be forthcoming shortly, it is said.

In addition to the commencement of spring football practice, the five contests booked consist of the varsity basketball game with
Wofford, and the Winston-Salem Freshman wrestling match yesterday; the Freshman-Wake Forest Freshman basketball game today, and the Elon-Davidson basketball game
Saturday night, together with the Davidson-Carolina wrestling match also on Saturday. Here is the calendar for the week beginning January
30th:

February 1—Basketball: Davidson vs. Wofford, 8:00 p.m. Wrestling: Davidson Fresh vs. Winston-Salem High.
February 2—Basketball: Davidson Fresh vs. Wake Forest Fresh.
February 4—Basketball: Davidson vs. Elon, 7:00 p.m. Wrestling: Davidson vs. University of North Carolina.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, DAVIDSON, N.C.

The Japanese estimate that on a Japanese standard of living, the world could support 2,500,000,000 people; while only 1,000,000,000 could
live under American standards. Frozen milk in huge blocks is being shipped from Seattle to China and the Straits Settlements.
The milk is said to be fresh when thawed out upon arrival. Tobacco is being grown for market in a
valley in British Columbia which corresponds in latitude to the northern part of Newfoundland.

Our Great January Clearance of Suits and Overcoats is now in progress.
MELLON’S, Charlotte, N.C.

So, This is Leap Year!
By BRIGGS

WHEN YOU'VE BEEN SPENDING ALL OF YOUR EARNINGS AND MOST OF YOUR PAY FOR THREE YEARS ON A WONDERFUL GIRL
LATELY, HOW WONDER- ER- UH- GO TO THE THEATRE TOMORROW NIGHT AND YOU'VE NEVER BEEN ABLE TO GET UP ENOUGH
NERVE TO POP THE BIG QUESTION

I'VE BEEN THINKING A LOT AND — JOE, YOU KNOW I THINK A TERRIBLE LOT OF YOU AND I HOPE
YOU WON'T THINK I'M TERRIBLY FORWARD IN ASKING YOU THIS THAT, COUGH, I WANT YOU TO SMOKE OLD GOLD CIGARETTES.....
I'M FRIGHTFULLY WORRIED ABOUT: MEANS. NOTHING OF YOURS IN MY SHATTERED OLD GOLD The Smoother and Better Cigarette ....not a
cough in a carload © 1928, P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760
