THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 12, 1928

Major Maloney was especially pleased with the general “set-up” of the men. (Continued from page 1)

Shoulders back, uniforms clean, shoes shined, and the general snap and spirit of the organization all contributed to a good impression. General Davis arrived about noon, and together with Major Maloney and their respective staffs, he was entertained at a luncheon at the hotel by Dr. W. J. Martin. Attending this luncheon were members of the army personnel assigned to this school, and the members of the faculty military committee.

Immediately after luncheon, General Davis and Major Maloney conferred with Dr. Martin on school affairs pertinent to the unit here. Wednesday afternoon the entire battalion assembled for a review, with General Davis as the reviewing officer. The review was excellently executed and was complimented by the visiting officers. Many of the townspeople and other Davidson friends were present at this ceremony, and together with the students not taking military, made a nice audience.

This inspection is not the final inspection which determines whether or not Davidson will receive honor rating for the coming year. This inspection, made by a committee of war department officials from Washington, will be held about the first week of April. Capt. B. D. Daugherty, popular commandant of the Davidson unit, was well pleased with the showing made on the 12th, but is particularly anxious that the showing made then be as nearly perfect as possible. With the beginning of the second semester in three weeks, the battalion will go into intensive training in preparation for this inspection. Cadets are urged to give their officers all the co-operation possible while the unit is being whipped into shape for this final inspection. Captains Daugherty, Elkins, and Otto, and Lieutenant Beckett, together with Sergeants Kirby and Burton, are working hard to perfect the organization and with the same “esprit de corps” as was shown lately, the chances are good for the school to repeat its achievements of the past two years in military circles.

PETER’S DECLARATION (Continued from page 1)

Their impressive temple meetings were held at the same time they were crucifying the Divine Truth. Peter’s third choice might have been the Essenes, who were the moralists of the day. They, just as many in modern times, were trying to bluff themselves and others into thinking that they were able to live sinless lives. But Peter rejected these false alternatives and declared, “Thou hast the words of eternal life,” the answer to man’s supreme need. In some way he had come into contact with the greatest personality of all time and at the same time became conscious of the finality of things. Six hundred million people are today worshipping the same Christ to whom Peter professed loyalty. They are finding that He is the same now as then, and that belief in Him is the factor needed to give balance to life. His is the truth that connects us with the universe, and without it all wisdom is vain, concluded Mr. Carter.

SHEWMAKE’S STUDY (Continued from page 1)

In the preface of the work, Dr. Shewmake expresses his indebtedness to Professors John C. Metcalf and James S. Wilson, of the University of Virginia; Professor Percy W. Long, of Harvard University, and Professor George Philip Krapp, of Columbia University, for suggestions and advice concerning the work. “College English Composition,” which came from the press early in the year, was of the authorship of Dr. Shewmake and Professor Cramer, of the University of Alabama. This work has been received very favorably and accepted as the standard text.

SIX PROMINENT SPEAKERS (Continued from page 1)the possibilities of that profession. Some one of a group of several ministers, including Dr. Thornton Whaling, of Louisville Seminary; Dr. B. R. Lacy, of Union Seminary; Dr. W. L. Lingle, of the Assembly’s Training School and chairman of the Board of Trustees of Davidson; and Dr. W. E. Hill, of Richmond, will present the advantages of the ministry. In Education, Dr. D. M. Douglas, president of the University of South Carolina and a brother of Professors Douglas, of the Davidson faculty; and George Howard, of Salisbury High, are among the group of educationalists from whom one man will be selected to talk to the students. In the field of medicine, Dr. Rankin, of Rochester, and Doctors Lafferty and Moore, of Charlotte, are being considered among others. Many newspaper men, including Josephus Daniels, of the Raleigh News and Observer, and J. S. Cohen, of the Atlanta Journal, are being considered. There are 250 men registered at Davidson who have not decided on any profession as a vocation. There are a large group who have signified their intention of entering a certain profession but who are not certain. It is for these men especially that the Institute has adopted its ambitious program, but the Institute is also eager to have every member of the student body at its weekly meetings.

CALL FOR BIDS (Continued from page 1)

officers are confident that this will be raised. Henry C. Hibbs, of Nashville, Tenn., is the architect for the building, while the erection of the present south wing was done by Blythe and Isenhour, of Charlotte. Students of the college brought in a small amount of money after the Christmas holidays in response to the appeal made by Mr. Jackson to the men before they went to their homes. Recently a magnanimous gift of $5,000 was made to the building fund by Mrs. C. B. Armstrong and children, of Gastonia. This gift will take the form of a memorial room to the late Col. C. B. Armstrong, who was one of the foremost textile executives in the South. It is said the complete new Chambers will be one of the finest and most imposing academic buildings in the South. It will be on the site of the old Chambers building, the style of architecture of which it will follow to some extent. The completion of this building, officials feel, will be the consummation of the ideals that have been in the minds of the executives since the destruction by fire of the old central building several years ago. This new building, the outcome of the unabated efforts of those connected with the work, will, it is also felt, be a mark of great progress of the college which has been handicapped in the past few years by a lack of proper equipment.

9:00—O. D. K.
Monday
Tuesday
7:00—Glee Club
Pan-Hellenic
Biology Club
9:00—O. D. K.

MEETING HOURS AND DATES SANCTIONED BY HONORARY FRATERNITY COUNCIL (Until Spring Senior Exams)
Weeks of
April 2
February 6
March 5
April 16
February 20
March 19
April 30

Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Friday
7:00—Glee Club
Glee Club
Glee Club
7:30—Court of Control
Sigma Pi Sigma
O. D. K.

WEEK OF JANUARY 30 AND ON ALTERNATE WEEKS
Student Council
Scabbard and Blade
G. S. E.
Wednesday
Friday
Glee Club
Glee Club
Sigma Upsilon
A. P. E.

Opening Today
Something Davidson Hasn’t Had Before
Newest Victrola Records, Cold and Hot Fountain Drinks
All Students’ Supplies, Kodaks for sale or to lend
Popular Novels and Magazines, Smokes of all kinds
Quick Service on Developing and Printing Films
ALL THIS WILL BE IN
The Davidson Book and Stationery Company
“SERVICE AND QUALITY”
Located in W. S. Henderson’s Store