December 6, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

TO THAT FIGHTING WILDCAT TEAM

CAT TRAX As They Follow the Red and Black By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

We are mighty glad to see the curtain ring down on the football season of 1928, not because we mind
getting licked as much as we hate to see the Wildcats fight a hopeless battle for victory. Every game found
them battling against far superior men, giving all they had to stem an inevitable tide of defeat. Never, it seems
to us, has Davidson had less football material, less actual power to offer her foes. Those latter games in the
state were heart-breaking ones, and for that reason we are relieved now that they are past.

For the first time in years, the Wildcats failed to furnish an “upset” of the dope. True they held some
teams to close scores, but in no instance did they really surprise the sport world. To spring an upset, a
team must have at least the potential power, and Davidson didn’t have that this year. Comparing the material sent to
Younger and Tilson with that given any other state school, we are moved to pay more tribute than ever to
the marvelous ability of those two Spartans of the Gridiron.

Another season will bring new hope. If the freshmen gridders of this year stay with us and benefit in a
normal way by the spring practice period, then next fall’s eleven should be some better than the one now making
its exit. That line has got to have some “beef”—intelligent “beef”—to swap blows with the opposition—to be able to run
a sustained offensive instead of being doomed to a defensive game because of a lack of weight. If the last
two seasons of Davidson football don’t serve to wake the alumni up then they are not even faintly interested in
their Alma Mater.

The Turkey Day clash at Durham was just a case of too much brawn and experience against a lighter and
less adept team. The first half was all Duke, and the Cats were on their heels the whole time. Murray
and Godfrey showed great drive as they ripped through the Wildcat line, and Buie continued his passing tactics for good
gains. Davidson rallied in the final period and kept the Blue Devils worried, but it was too late to do
much damage. Duke uncovered a neat aerial game, but it did not appear to be as deceptive as Carolina’s. This
Buie can really throw those things through, and his receivers are no slouches. Captain Baker, Leftwich, and Thad Brock played
best for the Cats. Brock’s kicking is better every game. Some of the ones he got off Thursday were exceptional,
because the Devil line was rushing him to death, and it seemed that every one would be smeared. That Duke
line is the hardest charging one we’ve seen this year and they are going to give Carolina a tough time
of it.

In spite of Buie’s passing and the forward line ahead of him, we look for the Tar Heels to tame
Duke next weekend. It’s been many a year since a team around this neck of the woods could come back
and win so consistently as do the Tar Heels. When one drive fails, Collins runs in another team and starts
all over. The Davidson and Virginia games are evidence of that wonderful reserve strength and versatility of attack which are
Carolina’s. Then, too, that thirty-five year winning streak of the Tar Heels is going to inject a lot of helpful
psychology into the fray. Anyway it goes, the game is sure to be a thriller.

Cage practice is assuming a more business-like attitude every day. It sounds good to hear the swish of the old
leather again. Furman University comes here on January ninth to open the season. The Hurricane has blown Davidson aside pretty
thoroughly for the last year or two, and the Cats are out for a scalp this time. The schedule this
season is one of the best ever given a Wildcat team. Calls for some real playing to chalk up most
of the games on the win side of the scorebook.

We are going to pick an all-state team next time. Want to wait and see the Duke-Carolina scrap, because this
game is going to decide a good many things about the all-state selections. If the idea was to choose the
fightingest eleven men, why we would write down the names of our own Davidson varsity and call it a good
job.

Monk and Tex Name All-State Gridders Coaches Agree on All Positions Except Center

Monk Younger and Tex Tilson, Davidson college Wildcat coaches, yesterday announced their all-state gridiron selections for the 1928 season. Younger
chose four N. C. State warriors, three each from Carolina and Duke, and one from Davidson. Tilson allotted four to
Duke, three each to State and Carolina and one to Davidson. The only difference in their selections was centers. Coach
Younger designated Metts, of State, while Coach Tilson expressed a preference for Hunter.

Varsity Basketeers Start Practice for Difficult Schedule Regular Practice Sessions Will be Held Every Day Until Holidays Begin LARGE SQUAD
OUT Men from Last Year’s Varsity and Freshman Five to Form Nucleus

In preparation for the heavy basketball schedule which the ‘Cats are carrying this year, Capt. Carl Pritchett is putting the
would-be squad through the paces in a series of setting-up exercises each afternoon. Coach Monk Younger announces that regular practice
for the varsity will be held each afternoon up until the Christmas holidays and the Freshmen each night. At the
return to school after the holidays regular practice will again be resumed. He also says there is a possibility of
having a game some time before the 20th.

The material is looking good and there is plenty to choose from. The weeding out process will begin soon and
in view of this fact every man is really putting out in the practices. There are about 18 good men
out, including Capt. Carl Pritchett, a letter man last year and one of the mainstays of this year’s team, also
R. G. Calhoun, who made his letter two years ago. From last year’s squad we have: Miller, Moore, Crawford, Smith,
Kugler, Baker, McGavock, Johnson, and Heefer. Last year’s Fresh team also donates some valuable material in: Goodson, Proctor, Wilson, Overman,
McCall, Rusk, Hood and Shepard. The main trip of the season will be up through Virginia where they will play
such schools as V. M. I., V. P. I., Virginia, and W. and L. Then of course comes the Big
Five battles of North Carolina (2), State, Wake Forest, Duke (2).

Too Bad Howard College, Ala, (CNA) Howard College, one of the largest Baptist colleges in the South, is even too
bad for the students. At least for 21 of them who preferred charges to the board of trustees of improper
conduct on the campus. One of the charges was that a member of the faculty had made the statement that
“if all the Bibles in the world were piled up and burned, the world would be better off within 100
years.” The complaints alleged that Dr. John C. Dawson, president, failed to listen to the complaints. Other charges were that
students during a fraternity rush, staged a mock compulsory wedding on the campus. That gambling and drinking have taken place,
and that fraternities have permitted dancing. A special committee appointed by the State Baptist Association is making an investigation.

Two Hours Preparation Ohio Wesleyan University — (CNA) — The standard of two hours of preparation for each hour of
recitation was reaffirmed at a meeting of the faculty. The complaint had been made.of Duke. Their picks follow:

Monk Younger’s—Left end, Brock (Davidson); left tackle, Weatherby (Duke); left guard, Vaughn (State); center, Mefts (State); right guard, Farris (Carolina);
right tackle, Lepo (State); right end, Sapp (Carolina); quarterback, Buie (Duke); left halfback, Hatcher (Duke); right halfback, Ward (Carolina); and
fullback, Warren (State).

Tex Tilson’s—Left end, Brock (Davidson); left tackle, Weatherby (Duke); left guard, Vaughn (State); center, Hunter (Duke); right guard, Farris (Carolina);
right tackle, Lepo (State); right end, Sapp (Carolina); quarterback, Buie (Duke); left halfback, Hatcher (Duke); right halfback, Ward (Carolina); fullback,
Warren (State).

Some of the departments of the university were requiring too much work from the students enrolled in their courses. The
previous standard of two hours of preparation was brought up and accepted by the members of the faculty.

Princeton on the Map

Princeton, N. J. (by New Student Service).—Millions who are denied the privilege of dying for dear old Siwash nevertheless have
come to know our colleges as intimately as if they had attended one. Thanks to Hollywood's many films of “college
life,” the plain people now recognize a tattooed slicker when they see it and are able to tell you with
some assurance that a college is a place where men wear battered headpieces, where rooms are decorated with “Keep off
the Grass” signs, and where football games invariably end with fifty-yard dashes and last-minute scores for the home eleven.

The latest of these educational films is called “Varsity” and some interesting stories are told about it. It has been
the custom to make these films at the hospitable University of Southern California, but lately the tendency has been to
vary the scenery. “Varsity” was to have been taken at Yale, but the authorities demurred. Princeton was found willing, so
the story was fitted out with Princeton names. Only The Tiger, Princeton's comic magazine, failed to see the joke. The
issue of that magazine for last June criticized the administration for turning the campus into a temporary Hollywood. Several telegrams
were secured from alumni. Mr. Struthers Burt, ’04, called Yale’s refusal a “distinct victory for New Haven.”

“If we are going in for such things,” complained Mr. Burt, “why not start nationwide advertising campaigns with such slogans
as ‘Princeton, The Friendly University,’ or, ‘You don't know what education is until you've been to Princeton.’” Now that “Varsity”
has been released, the exhibitors are afraid to show it at Princeton. Perhaps mindful of the reception “Brown of Harvard”
received on the banks of the Charles, the local theater owner has canceled his order for the film. Some of
the students have seen the picture in New York and their reports are not of such a nature as to
cause a theater owner to expose his property to the possible wrath of a student body.

Large Fresh Squad Reports to Tilson For Cage Workouts

Fifty Men Report for Initial Practice Workouts

PROSPECTS GOOD

Freshman Squad to Take Week’s Trip Into Virginia With Varsity Squad

The Freshmen under Coach “Tex” Tilson have started basketball practice in earnest. About fifty men reported last week for initial
workouts. The work mainly consists of shooting and setting up exercises. Monday night Coach Tilson announced that men who were
absent twice without excuse would be automatically cut from the squad. Besides this, no cutting of the squad will take
place until after Christmas. He divided the squad into two sections so that the practice can be held in a
more systematic manner.

The Freshmen will leave for a week's trip in Virginia with the Varsity. This is one of the best trips
that a Freshman team has ever taken. Although the practice has hardly progressed far enough to make any predictions, there
seems to be plenty of good material in the class.

Body-Building Work Given to Students

Coaches Start System of Regular Exercise for Students Desiring it

Something new was started on the hill Monday morning when Capt. Pritchett announced in Chapel that a medal would be
given to the student who showed the greatest muscular development by February the first. This medal is given to stimulate
interest in the new plan worked out by the coaches in cooperation with Captain Pritchett. The plan was developed especially
for the football men. The coaches are planning on keeping the men in condition throughout the winter. When he made
the announcement, Captain Pritchett appealed to the football men, especially the members of the Freshmen team, because they will be
depended upon to furnish material for the Varsity next year. The football men are not the only ones wanted. All
students are allowed to take part in the exercises and many are taking advantage of the opportunity to improve their
physiques, especially those interested in any kind of athletics, for they realize the importance of keeping their bodies in trim.

All students who wish to take part in these body-building exercises must register and be measured before starting. Captain Pritchett
is experienced in such work and he guarantees everyone who sticks with him for three months an increase in muscle
of four inches or more. This made quite an impression on the student body as shown by the fact that
they kept a man busy measuring their necks, biceps, forearms, thighs, and chests all afternoon. About eighty-five men turned out
for the first exercise. There will be several more out later, for the time has been changed so that all
the men will have a chance to be present. Only a few exercises were given the first day, but in
a few days a regular group of exercises will be given. These will be especially good for the all-round development
of the participants.

No Spring Sports

University of Toledo—(CNA)—The faculty committee on student activities is considering the abandonment of all spring sports at the University of
Toledo. The athletic committee tabled the motion. The faculty committee had previously gone on record as against providing any money
for the spring sports—baseball, track, and tennis. The Campus Collegian, student paper, comes out strongly against the move and is
sponsoring a campaign to discourage the faculty or athletic committee from taking such action. “We are contemplating making important connections
with a strong athletic conference and at the particular time that conditions seem to be almost ripe, the abandonment of
two spring sports featured in this conference is being considered,” the paper declares.

When the cat's away the mice will play—but maybe the cat’s not having such a rotten time either.

My, you need a haircut. Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real College haircut. He has three real barbers.

NORTON BROS. in Post Office block—Three first-class workmen.

Add that distinctive touch to your CHRISTMAS CARDS by having them Engraved. You will need your engraved personal cards soon.
Samples on display today and tomorrow at 20 Rumple St., Charlotte, N. C. Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.

He—Have you heard the one about the traveling salesman?
She—Shut up! I’m a farmer’s daughter.

THIS IS THE WHY AND HOW OF IT

THERE’s a part of you somewhere between your Adam’s apple and your ankles concerned with smoke-judgment. And you can’t fox
that smoke-sense—if it really knows its cigarettes! Here’s the test: Light a Camel—and pull in a cloud of cool fragrance.
The deep approval inside is witnessed by “that certain feeling.” Try and match it! We'll bet a hand-painted lemonade shaker
you can’t do it.

© 1928 R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
