Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN October 25, 1928.

ALUMNI NEWS

Definite Plans for Big Homecoming Celebration Made by Alumni Council

Program Will Be Somewhat Similar to That of Past Several Years

RADIO PROGRAM PLANNED

Question of Method to Be Used in Financing Davidson Alumni Office Discussed and Action Taken

The Davidson College Alumni Council, holding its first meeting of the fall last Friday night in Charlotte, made definite plans concerning the Homecoming Day program; agreed to give a radio performance over Station WBT, in Charlotte, if satisfactory arrangements can be made; discussed and decided upon the method to finance the alumni office during the coming year, and attended to routine matters. Four members of the council were present: Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, '06, president; Dr. Oren Moore, '08; Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99, and Mr. F. L. Jackson, '06. Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, also attended the council meeting.

It was decided to follow the procedure for Homecoming Day similar to the past few years, if that was agreeable to all parties concerned. The Reserve Officers’ Training Corps would give an exhibition drill in the morning, followed by exercises in the stadium. The Council discussed a possible speaker but is not ready to officially announce its choice. The names of alumni who have died during the past year would also be read at the exercises. Immediately following would be the alumni luncheon in the gymnasium, served in cafeteria style. The success of this new feature last year was largely responsible for the decision to undertake it again. No speeches would be made, but alumni and their friends would enjoy a light lunch and the association through the method of serving the repast.

The Alumni Council authorized its president, Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, to write a letter to the entire alumni constituency on the mailing list, presenting the needs and plans of the home office, including a subscription blank to the alumni. It was intimated that in the Spring a statement would be sent to those alumni who had not responded when a ballot was sent to them for the alumni trustees and officers which are to be elected next commencement. Dr. J. P. Matheson and Dr. Oren Moore were appointed on a committee to investigate the possibility of giving a performance over Radio Station WBT several days before Homecoming Day, in which the Glee Club would play a prominent part. Only one speaker would be used at that time, in lieu of the several who spoke last year.

And didn’t you ever read of the man who swallowed a can of gold paint and then said, “O how guilty I feel!”—Cynic.

Plutarco Elias Calles announces that he will never again be President of Mexico. Down in Mexico, as a rule, these announcements are made by the coroner.—Arkansas Gazette.

“Give me your money or I’ll blow your brains out,” commanded the hold-up. The intended victim calmly laughed in a manner that showed that he didn’t care about either. He was a college boy.—Wisconsin Octopus.

“I see by the paper that a widower with nine children has married a widow with seven children.” “That was no marriage. That was a merger.”—Oregon Orange Owl.

“Where was the wedding tonight?” “Ha, ha, the joke’s on you. That old man with a gun was going duck hunting!”—Iowa Frivol.

Anthony: “Going to class?” Clyburn: “Naw, I don’t need any sleep.”

“How's life as a Freshman?” “I’ve only a hazy idea.”—Pennsylvania Punch Bowl.

“Oh, I could just die waltzing.” “Excuse me while I speak to the orchestra leader.”—The Texas Ranger.

Alumni Deaths

ROBERT F. PHIFER, '69

Robert F. Phifer, '69, native of Concord, but for many years a resident of New York City, died Tuesday, October 17, at Battle Creek, Mich., where he had been for about a year undergoing treatment. The body was brought to Concord where interment occurred. Mr. Phifer was 79 years old, and a member of one of the best-known families in this section of the state. He had extensive real estate holdings in Concord and other sections of North Carolina and was a large stockholder in the Southern Railway Co. The deceased entered Davidson from Concord in 1862, but did not graduate. While here he was a member of the Philanthropic society. He left here and began his career as a planter and cotton buyer in Winston-Salem, later transferring his interests to New York. In commenting on his death the Charlotte Observer remarked: “Old days in Concord and old memories of the town and its departed citizenship are recalled with information of the death of Mr. Robert Phifer. * * * Mr. Phifer was representative of the original stock of Concord citizenship, being the son of a man who was a contemporary of the pioneer families who were commercial kings of Concord and the agricultural leaders of Cabarrus, all associated citizens in the integrity of the community and royalty of the pioneer days. Mr. Phifer was a man of genial traits of character. He was one of the best types of the old-timers.”

Big Scores

East Lansing, Mich., Oct. 24—(AP)—Michigan State University’s gridders have made an early bid for recognition as high scorers in the 1928 football season by defeating Kalamazoo College 103 to 0. This is the highest score which has been made this year by a well-known college or university eleven. The highest score in one game made last season was credited to St. Xavier, at Cincinnati, which defeated Lee University, in Kentucky, to the merry tune of 132 to 0, a score estimated to be about the limit possible in a regulation time game. St. Xavier last year piled up a total of 411 points, granting their opponents only 64. The team won eight games, tied one 6 to 6, and lost one 14 to 13. St. Xavier last year defeated Western Reserve University at Cleveland 53 to 7, the latter team turning about early this season and whipping Kenyon College 70 to 6. Only twice before in the history of the college has Michigan State piled up such scores, once in 1912 when it defeated Hillsdale College 104 to 0, and in 1920 when it walked over Olivet College 108 to 0.

Football From the Air

Lafayette, Ind., Oct. 24—(AP)—Pest Welch, Purdue's brilliant half-back who won fame for himself last year by defeating Harvard in football almost single-handed, is believed to be the only man who ever caught a football thrown from a speeding airplane nearly two hundred feet in the air. The opening ceremonies for the annual Varsity-Freshman football game at the Ross-Ade Stadium here provided the setting for the distinctive athletic feat.

Klu Klux: “Say, you are Jewish. You can't join this order.” Abe: “I don’t want to join.” K. K.: “Well, what are you doing here?” Abe: “I want to see the fellow who buys the sheeting.”

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”

Cars to Rent Special Rates for Long Trips HENDERSON AUTO CO. DAVIDSON, N.C.

ROSTER OF 1928 GRADUATES

Below is given a roster of the 1928 graduating class, with their present addresses, according to the states in which they are located. It is known that some of them are incorrect, but the alumni office has been unable to obtain the latest location. Any assistance in the matter will be appreciated by the alumni secretary:

Alabama—W. K. Forbes, Forbes Piano Co., Birmingham.
District of Columbia—C. R. Carr, 927 15th St.
Florida—P. W. Walton, Box 74, Englewood, Fla.
Georgia—H. B. Arbuckle, Jr., Darlington School, Rome; E. L. Douglass, 2609 Henry St., Augusta; P. Garrison, Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur; J. M. Gudger, The Berry Schools, Mt. Berry; Hansell Jennings, Thomasville; F. K. Justice, Phi Chi House, Emory University; T. E. McGeachy, Emory University; C. J. McGehee, University of Georgia, Athens; C. A. Ohsiek, 216 W. 32nd St., Savannah; H. F. Peterson, Jr., Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur; P. P. Thrower, Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur; S. M. Withers, Jr., Moultrie.
Kentucky—F. W. Richards, Owingsville.
Louisiana—R. S. Link, Jr., 4500 S. Carrollton Ave., New Orleans.
Massachusetts—B. G. Alderman, Entry C, Room 35, McCulloch Hall, Soldiers’ Field, Boston; Tyree Dillard, Harvard University, Cambridge; V. J. Guthery, Jr., McCulloch A-21, Soldiers’ Field, Boston; J. S. McAlister, Jr., McCulloch C-44, Soldiers’ Field, Boston; J. R. McCravey, Jr., B-11 McCulloch Hall, Soldiers’ Field, Boston; Rod McRae, C-44 McCullochHall, Soldiers’ Field, Boston; Gordon McSwain, 303 Vanderbilt Hall, Longwood Ave., Boston; B. F. Martin, C-44 McCulloch, Soldiers’ Field, Boston; B. W. Miller, 507 Beacon St., Boston; W. O. Nisbet, Jr., McCulloch B-31, Soldiers’ Field, Boston; R. M. Stephenson, B-11 McCulloch, Soldiers’ Field, Boston; F. S. Wearn, 303 Vanderbilt Hall, Longwood Ave., Boston; O. P. Wearn, McCulloch A-21, Soldiers’ Field, Boston.

Mississippi—C. G. Davidson, Chamberlain-Hunt Military Academy, Port Gibson; R. M. Engle, Tupelo Military Academy, Tupelo; W. K. Gwin, Jr., 226 N. State St., Jackson; H. L. Laws, Columbus; W. F. Stigler, Lexington; R. M. Thompson, French Camp Military Academy, French Camp.

New York—W. R. Grey, Jr., 55 Hanson Place, Brooklyn; J. D. Gwin, 6 Montague Terrace, Brooklyn; J. L. McGee, 55 Hanson Place, Brooklyn; J. W. Reid, Jr., 819 John Jay Hall, Columbia University, New York; B. A. Wilson, Haskins & Sells Co., 15 Broad St., New York.

Ohio—M. A. Morrison, 708 N. Third St., Barberton.

Pennsylvania—W. B. Bradford, Jr., J. C. Montgomery, and J. L. Robinson, Jr., all at University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

Tennessee—T. T. Jones, A. K. K. House, Vanderbilt University, Nashville; C. C. Trabue, IV, Gainsborough Apts., Nashville.

Virginia—A. F. Burgiss, Hamilton Apts., Charlottesville; F. D. Daniel, 202 E. High St., Charlottesville; J. W. Farnum, 3012 Kensington Ave., Richmond; J. G. Gallent, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond; J. S. Gray, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond; G. F. Houck, U. T. S., Richmond; H. C. Johnson, Woodberry Forest; Julian Lake, U. T. S., Richmond; W. L. Lingle, Jr., 1204 Palmyra Ave., Richmond; Bernard McClaugherty, Hamilton Apts., Charlottesville; W. L. McColgan, U. T. S., Richmond; C. F. McRae, U. T. S., Richmond; J. M. Murchison, U. T. S., Richmond; C. R. Rowe, 27 University Place, Charlottesville; J. G. Wharton, 200 14th St., Charlottesville; J. J. Williard, University of Virginia, University.

South Carolina—G. S. Brooks, Fountain Inn; R. W. Carr, 480 Union St., Spartanburg; D. D. Douglas, Winnsboro; A. H. McPhaul, Clio; A. M. Smith, Jr., Travelers’ Rest; Joe Welborn, Pelzer; I. C. Withers, News and Courier, Charleston.

North Carolina—J. M. Akers, 411 Central Ave., Charlotte; J. M. Andrew, 205 Smith Bldg., Chapel Hill; H. M. Arrowood, Shelby; R. G. Bishop, Belhaven; W. E. Brown, 1602 Walker Ave., Greensboro; W. M. Brown, Waynesville; A. A. Caison, American Trust Co., Charlotte; H. L. Campbell, Box 55, Chadbourne; C. O. Cathey, Davidson; W. A. Cathey, Cornelius; M. P. Crawford, 1809 E. Eighth St., Charlotte; D. A. Currie, Clarkton; B. W. Dickson, Gastonia; C. B. DuBose, 102 Smith Bldg., Chapel Hill; J. R. Falls, Gastonia; J. S. Foster, 238 Cherry St., Winston-Salem; R. A. Glenn, Concord; J. W. Grey, 411 Central Ave., Charlotte; J. K. Hall, Jr., Belmont; M. N. Hall, Belmont; D. W. Hancock, Hickory Record, Hickory; J. P. Harmon, Fayetteville; G. W. Harrison, 1119 Virginia St., Greensboro; B. G. Henry, Iron Station; D. H. Howard, Jr., Davidson; M. A. Johnston, 201 S. Cedar St., Charlotte; J. R. Kugler, Washington; T. E. Lothery, Davidson; R. S. Lowrance, High School, Gastonia; J. F. McCrary, Asheboro; D. R. McEachern, 415 Grimes Bldg., Chapel Hill; J. P. McKnight, News-Dispatch, Wilmington; J. C. Marrow, Tarboro; P. R. Maulden, 109 Hillsboro St., Chapel Hill; W. C. Mills, Mooresville; H. L. Neely, Route 11, Charlotte; M. C. O'Neal, G. Ormsby, Belk-Williams Co., Wilmington; C. L. Parks, Concord; R. C. Platt, Jr., Clarkton; H. T. Powell, Box 185, Chapel Hill; L. K. Pritchett, Banner Elk; D. C. Shaw, Jr., Kerr; H. R. Smith, Route 7, Greensboro; W. G. Smith, Dunn; C. W. Taylor, Crossnore; J. P. Thompson, High School, Gastonia; S. W. Vance, Crossnore; T. C. Watkins, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill; D. O. Westbrook, Jr., Pink Hill; J. H. Wildman, Parmele; W. E. Wilkinson, Old East Bldg., Chapel Hill.

Get Your SCHOOL SUPPLIES at the Davidson Book & Stationery Co. New Victor, Columbia, and Okeh Records Every Week. YOURS FOR SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE. Make Our Store Your Headquarters. “EVERYTHING THE STUDENT NEEDS”

Mr. and Mrs. Archie Foil, of Concord, announce the birth of a daughter, born October 4th. Mr. Foil was in the class of 1921.

Flora Macdonald College, of which Dr. C. G. Vardell, ’88, is president, recently celebrated its 32nd birthday. Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson and a classmate of Dr. Vardell, was the principal speaker of the occasion.

Among the recent speakers of the Synod of South Carolina were Rev. John McSween, ’08, Dr. D. M. Douglas, ’01, and Rev. Alexander Martin, D.D., ’85.

The committee of 27, appointed by the Synod of North Carolina to direct its work included Rev. J. L. Fairley, D.D., ’00, recording secretary; Rev. A. R. McQueen, ’03, assistant secretary; Claude T. Carr, ’98, director of religious education; Rev. A. A. McLean, D.D., ’06; Rev. W. M. Fairley, D.D., ’95; Rev. H. N. McDiarmid, ’11; Rev. J. M. Walker, ’07; Rev. C. E. Hodgin, D.D., ’04; Rev. M. S. Huske, ’11; and Rev. J. R. McGregor, ’14. Clerks of Synod re-elected were Rev. R. A. McLeod, ’09, state clerk; Rev. C. M. Gibbs, ’15, permanent clerk; and Rev. C. G. Long, ’21, assistant clerk.

Pilot Life Insurance Company, of Greensboro, recently moved into handsome offices in the new development, Sedgefield, near Greensboro. J. S. McAlister, ’19, is secretary of the organization and other Davidson alumni connected with it are L. L. McAlister, ’20; T. D. Dupuy, ’01, and I. C. Crawford, ’12.

Dr. C. H. Watt, ’06, of Thomasville, Ga., is secretary-treasurer of the Second District Medical Society in Georgia.

Rev. J. P. Taylor, ’21, who has been supplying the Cooleemee Presbyterian Church since he graduated from Union Theological Seminary last May, has accepted a call to the Elkin (N. C.) Presbyterian Church.

Rev. W. A. Murray, ’96, of Black Mountain, has been elected moderator of the Asheville Presbytery at its meeting October 2nd.

At a meeting of the ministers’ conference held in Anderson, S. C., recently, resolutions were adopted expressing appreciation of the ministers of that city for the excellent work done by Rev. John McSween, ’08, pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church in Anderson before he accepted the presidency of the Presbyterian College.

Mr. and Mrs. John Watt, of Thomasville, Ga., announce the birth of a son, Augustine Hansell, October 13th. Mr. Watt is an ’06 alumnus.

HOTCHPOT—(Continued from Page 2)

Smith and his brown derby—Hoover and his brown study.

A leading New York journal recently published an article giving the opinions of college executives regarding temperance conditions among students. Excerpts from some of the opinions were as follows:

President A. A. Brown, University of Chattanooga: “To my mind, the conditions with reference to drinking among college students are better than they were in the pre-prohibition times.”

President R. L. Wilbur, Stanford University: “There is no doubt that there has been a marked decrease in the use of alcoholic beverages among the college students with whom I come in contact. Compared with the period before the present laws were put into effect, I should say that we have only one-tenth of the problem that we had at that time in connection with liquor.”

“A changed mental attitude, which has brought university students to the realization that ‘gentlemen don't get drunk,’ is the outstanding effect of prohibition noted on the University of Iowa campus by R. E. Reinaw, dean of men for 15 years.”

In a column adjacent to these statements was a news article telling of the death of two day students of New York University caused by the drinking of liquor. How do drinking conditions on the college campus before prohibition compare with conditions as they are today?

My, you need a haircut. Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real college haircut. He has three real barbers. NORTON BROS. in Post Office. Three first-class workmen.

A good shoe to ask for by name—MONTROSS. There is style in the prices, too! No longer need the well-shod man pay the price of out-of-date production methods. Inefficiency is outmoded. Modern methods enable John Wards to lead in quality, in style, yet sell for dollars less! Buy your next pair here—at seven and nine dollars!

INCORPORATED—U.S. PAT. OFF. Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark, and Philadelphia.

BILL BAILEY & DEAN RUSK On display at 208 Watts.