Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN November 29, 1928.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Anonymous articles will not
be published.

AUBREY BROWN - Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
F. D. MILLER - Managing Editor
C. M. PRATT - Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT - Managing Editor
Z. V. LONG - Sports Editor
V. A. MILTON - News Editor
P. B. FRY - Society Editor
D. P. ANDERSON - Feature Editor
W. McCUTCHAN - Assistant Editor
L. BROWN - Assistant Editor
C. R. LAKE - Associate Editor
J. B. MORIARITY - Associate Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
L. A. MILLS - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. McCALL - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. SLOOP - Circulation Mgr.
B. JENNINGS - Subscription Mgr.
G. D. POE - Solicitor
R. E. WILEY - President
E. S. McBRYDE - Vice-President
P. M. PRESTON - Secretary-Treasurer
C. W. RAGIN - RUSK
R. W. WEAVER
S. H. S. WILEY
J. V. D. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1928

THANKSGIVING DAY

Thanksgiving Day is with us again. The day of thankfulness to our Creator for the many blessings that have been
bestowed upon us. Yet how many really pause to give thanks for their benefits? A few. Yes. Is this due
to ingratitude? Probably not. A more logical cause is negligence and forgetfulness. We, in our hurry and materialism, forget the
purpose of the original Thanksgiving, or if we do think of it, give to it only a passing thought and
hope that someone else gives the thanks that are due.

Even though the very spirit of Thanksgiving has changed, we should not forget the origin of its being. How, over
three hundred years ago on the bleak and dreary coast of New England, a group of weary Puritans gathered together
and, in the midst of hunger, cold, disease, and discouragement, found time to set aside a day to give thanks
to God for His mercy. It took men and women with strong wills to carry on through the first hard
years of work and then give thanks to the Lord for His kindness. It took men and women with iron
constitutions to stand the hardships of those times and then to praise the Maker for letting them get away from
the softness of old England. Among these people was the first Thanksgiving. The program for the day then was simple—contests,
feasts, and church services, and then the day was over.

How different is our day. It is true that we still have the contests, but the Puritans did not have
thousands of people in stadiums cheering men that they only know by reputation. Yes, we still have the feasts, but
not a simple meal of home-grown products, but an elaborate dinner whose ingredients are gathered from all over the United
States. We still have the church services, but how many people attend in their hurry to get off to the
big game? We still have the same elements in our Thanksgiving as did the early Puritans, but our proportion of
them has changed. In the olden times, the church services and the thanks to God were the main elements, but
in our day the main and preponderant element is the football game.

We do not advocate the abolishment of the new Thanksgiving. Times have changed too much. Neither have we any fight
with football, but we call for a more religious amendment to our Thanksgiving. A Thanksgiving when more thanks shall be
given to our Lord than to the coach who turns out a winning team. Far too few people attend the
usual Thanksgiving services of the churches, far too few pause, in their hurry to fill the holiday with something, to
give thanks to the Divine Being who is the founder of this nation of ours.

CONSIDER THE DEBATER

While literary societies at Davidson gasp for breath the Forensic Council announces that it has become a member of the
Dixie Debating League. Intercollegiate debating, in spite of its many rivals in the fields of athletics, journalism, and scores of
other extracurricular activities, has become important enough for organization.

The most exacting work in extracurricular activities at Davidson is the lot of the varsity debater. Although the period of
preparation does not extend over quite the length of time as does the season of any one of the major
sports, it is far more concentrated when it does last. Athletic training, although involving an element of work, has much
of the spirit of play in its process, and no great amount of other recreation is needed in the day’s
program. There is no such spirit of play in the preparation of debate; hence recreation must be taken outside of
time used for research and for performing the academic duties as well.

A place on the debating team therefore comes as an expensive opportunity for development and honor. The debater, if he
contends on home ground, must meet classes even on the day of, and on the day after, the engagement. There
must then be some great neglect of one part of the day's program: either recreation or preparation of debate or
classroom work must be sacrificed.

Debate has a great intrinsic value. It breeds a wholesome regard for truth and facts; it demands a high degree
of accuracy and exactness; it broadens the point of view more than anything else can do; it makes the person
come to the realization that “all finalities are lies, including this one;” in presentation it demands a great understanding of
human nature and psychological laws. In toto, the process of debate fulfills more nearly all the requirements of education than
any other college function.

In view of such facts it seems evident that debate demands more recognition from the administration than it now gets.
If nothing else were done, it would go a great way to provide for a better debating program, to excuse
each varsity debater from preparation for classes for a week preceding the debate.

F.D.M.

THE SOCIAL DEMOCRAT

Charles Franklin Thwing, in the current World's Work, is more than generous in his praise of college students generally. He
covers the field from end to end and finds in every respect, an improvement in the type since, say, 1878.
An interesting fact which he calls to attention is an evident one. “The increase in the number of individuals in
college,” says Dr. Thwing, “is accompanied by a decrease in the number of individualisms. Similarities are more abounding in the
present college group than are eccentricities.” Recent surveys by fashion experts bear out this statement as they report uniform changes
in the matter of dress from the slouchy tendency of recent years to a tidiness and care formerly unknown. This
is a true symbol of the uniformity which is the rule of the campus.

Another point in common among students is the care which is taken to shun superiority and at the same time,
inferiority. There is no desire to be above the average college man, but rather to be typical and “regular.” Here
is a personality strangely foreign to the college of a decade ago; an entirely different being; a pattern, so to
speak, cut in the form of the true and the average college person; and yet, a being possessing a quality
differing from those of the “old grad.” He is a social democrat.

Cosmic Chaos
By J. W. McCutchan

Diary of a Davidson Pepys: Up betimes and to breakfast, after which to chapel. Intermittently to classes to have the
lecture interrupted by riveters, then made drowsy by an over-heated room, shot, and to dinner. Afternoon sessions proved boresome to
the point of necessitating exercise. Laziness proved too great and wandered around watching the Varsity prepare for Duke, thence to
the Varsity tennis court to watch the development of serves and cuts. Supper. Tried to study, but distraction between dormitories
was ceaseless. Gave it up, and to a bull session where Stunt Night was cleverly impersonated. Bridge, whereupon certain songs
on the Vic made me blue. So to bed.

Or after the manner of “Listen World!”: Nothing makes me angrier than to be cleverly horsed and unable to make
a witty reply. You know, my dears, that all the ingenuity and humor of the freshman comes to the surface
in a horse. Most of them are the result of months of study, concentration, and waiting for the correct moment
in which to make them. Upon execution of which the majority of those horsed are powerless to answer except by
shouting “Freshman” at the top of their voices. That's what makes me so mad about horses. They kick but it’s
hard to kick them. Often a reply seems trite. Then, too, all of my readers have been horsed and have
horsed. Listen, World, forget it and sing, “Horses, horses, horses, crazy over horses, she’s a little wild, etc.”

Cheerio!

Or:

Dear Doctor, I am troubled severely with cuts. Are they serious, and how may I get rid of them?
A. B. C.

A. B. C.: Really, you should be more explicit about the malady. The symptoms are divided into three classes, namely,
1—church and chapel; 2—R. O. T. C.; 3—classes. Practically all authorities agree that the first class is very detrimental but
not fatal. Army surgeons, in particular, state that the second group is most serious and the results are dire. The
third class is the most severe, and once contracted, cannot be cured; authorities vary on this point. As for the
cure: Purchase a good alarm clock, sew on all brass buttons, and take four weeks now and Christmas, write again
and enclose self-addressed, stamped envelope.

Followers of the gridiron saw a good football game between Statesville and Concord. Both schools had scrappy teams and it
was a hard fight. A good example of high school support and spirit was made evident by the student bodies.
Incidentally, Davidson yelling can be the more appreciated.

That proportion of the Student Body, which goes to Charlotte over the weekend, and which is 99 44-100 per cent
pure, lays a just complaint against the Camel City Bus Line, and the Southern Railway. The Owl wasn’t exactly a
convenience, but it was a remedy. Now there is no possible way of getting from Charlotte after eight o'clock at
night, except through the extortion of taxi companies or the co-operation of the traveling public. Certainly a 15 or 20
passenger bus could be run from Charlotte to Davidson on weekend nights and with a profit.

Whence all the false alarms? Twice in the last two weeks students have been forced to rise hurriedly and rush
hither and yon in search of the Red Death. Each time those who got farther than across the campus before
finding their mistake, have proven themselves to be good track material. The story of the little boy who shouted, “Wolves,
wolves,” is to be repeated.

As soon as Albert B. Fall is well enough to stand trial, according to the Government, it will continue his
prosecution on bribery charges. This is the sort of statement which invariably makes Mr. Fall suffer a relapse.

Minor Chords

SONG OF LOVE
One, I love;
Two, I love;
Three, I love, I say,
If my love
Will not love
I shall stroll away,
Seek new love,
Love new.Love ardently a day; thus it lowe ~ Every lowe till I’m old and gray. —F. H.

It appears as though the story...

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT: BE SOBER AND MISTRUSTFUL

McGill Daily: A certain laboratory at McGill University preaches a sermon in eleven words to whomsoever enters its doors. For
there, painted in unassuming black letters on the wall above one of the tables, are the words, “Be sober and
mistrustful; these are the sinews of understanding.” It seems almost unnecessary to comment on a sentence like that. Breathtaking in
their significance, the words come out of the past, like a dash of cold water in the face of complacent
credulity. How often have we seen students thrown into an intellectual panic on hearing two professors teaching completely divergent views
upon the same subject. “Which are we to believe?” they ask in an aggrieved tone of voice. It probably never
enters their minds that it might be wise to disbelieve both, to soberly weigh the evidence themselves, and then to
form an opinion of their own, unlike either of those proposed. Students are not required to believe all they are
told. The professor who has stimulated his class to think for themselves has done a mightier deed than one who
has merely poured into their all-believing ears a mass of information colored by his own personal opinion. Just because a
professor swears by a certain poet, is no reason why the student should not think that same poet asinine and
insipid. Nor do the professors expect otherwise. They want their students to think—not to hold their mouths open like a
nestful of birds, waiting for providence, or some other interested person, to send a worm. But the ancient physician who
bequeathed such advice did not advocate the opposite extreme, the “doubting Thomas” attitude. Everyone is familiar with the man who
cannot be told anything. He considers an opinion unlike his own as worthless and refuses to believe that there may
be something, after all, in what the other fellow says. He is mistrustful of other opinions, but his mistrust does
not include his own conclusions. We must, then, be soberly mistrustful even of our own opinions and prejudices. “For these
are the sinews of understanding.”

—AND BOOKS HAVE AN INNING

Daily Nebraskan: Winter—cold, solemn winter with its attendant red noses and sniffles, has swooped down upon the campus. A bit
late, perhaps, but full of apology and with apparent intent to make up for lost time. Overcoats and sheepskins have
been yanked from the traditional moth balls and adorn their various owners. With cold weather comes open season on books,
the effects of which will probably be noticeable in classroom and dormitory. The wind howls around the corner. Students may
stay comfortably inside and study. Youth, after all, is carefree and more or less irresponsible. Picnic season is over. At
least that is the opinion that most parents and older sons seem to hold. “Mighty little studying is apt to
be the verdict of the hard-eyed businessman who adjusts his clerical spectacles and examines the monthly requisition. But let them
invade the average fraternity or sorority house on a week-night. Silence pervades. Concentration is king! Many students give the opinion
outside of school times that it is all a snap. Oftentimes they are the hardest book-lookers. Outsiders may well reflect
before condemning university students for their study habits, especially if they are basing their conclusions on student chatters.

OPEN FORUM: NO, NOT THAT!

To the Editor of The Davidsonian:

Sir: In the last week’s issue of The Davidsonian there appeared an article in the open forum column which seemed
to me, inane, to say the least. It was that in which it was suggested that the Senior class gift
be in the form of a flag, to replace the traditional old relic which now flaps in tatters from the
pole near Shearer. It is my opinion that only such a decrepit old rag would be in taste on a
campus which has for its sole chapel, such a one as Shearer; which numbers among its dormitories, “The Barracks,” and
which houses its Physics and Biology departments in such a splendid pile of scrap-wood as is the “Temporary” building. I
will confess that the idea of offering a course of instruction in War at all at Davidson has always seemed
rather incongruous to me. If there were no War department here, there would neither be that remnant of a flag
which now beats the breeze on our campus. And lastly, the idea of having the Senior class keep the college
in flags, with their Senior class gifts, is preposterous. If the Seniors want to give a class gift they should
give one, and if not, why suggest that they should offer as their parting gift a handful of toothpicks to
the biggest eater—or something equally as tasty as that?

ZISKA.

WANTON WILES

By Dave Anderson

THE BULL PEN

Thanksgiving edition of bull, differing only from the regular weekly of the same in that we are printing one joke
with a point to it. Reward of one doughnut paid to the finder of this joke. It is an ancient
and age-old custom, this Thanksgiving. In the olden days, folks gathered around Thanksgiving Day, ate, drank, and enumerated the many
things for which they were thankful. Now, in this modern regime, folks eat a hurried dinner, gather together in the
stadium on their team’s side of the field, drink, and are thankful—provided their side is winning. Contrary to custom, we
wish to enumerate some things which we will be thankful for after Thanksgiving. These are all with the proviso that
what we hope for will come true.

1. We will be thankful that the Wildcats frocked (a word used in substitute for what we would say, but
can't print) the Duke Blue Devils.
2. That we ain't (it ain't in the dictionary, but Ed Guest uses that little word) sick, from bad seafood.
3. That the turkey served at our house wasn't tough and that there was plenty of it.
4. That all our profs are cutting their classes Friday.
5. That it ain’t-gonna rain no more—even in Davidson.

And now we are thankful, truly thankful, even before we are supposed to be thankful, that this week’s work is
done. No more pecking at this typewriter till next Monday. Mr. Webster, in his dictionary for the benefit of the
illiterate (meaning, college students), besides spelling difficult words for the young love letterist, gives a few very clever definitions of
words. In regard to Thanksgiving, Mr. Webster says that it is a day, in the United States, set aside by
general proclamation of the President, as a holiday. Now wouldn't it have been a good joke on all football fans,
college students, and banks, if Mr. Coolidge should not have chosen to proclaim? Do you suppose they would call a
re-election and run the Republicans out of office?

For the first time in forty-one years in France, a murderess is to be guillotined. Previously they have all been
released on pleas of faithlessness of the murdered man, insanity, or beauty. A Serbianness recently strangled a child, arranging it
so that it would seem to be the deed of a man. She had none of the three mentioned pleas
and was accordingly quickly convicted by a male jury. It is reported that 95 percent of the Ford employees learn
how to run their machines and handle their tools in one day. About five percent are skilled craftsmen. It takes
a very high degree of specialization to do that. An estimate recently made that the country’s annual loss from sickness
is 9 billion dollars. One billion is spent on repair service to the bodies; 2 billion is lost in wages
during sickness; and 6 billion is the unused earning capacity cut short by death from preventable disease. That should teach
us that an ounce of prevention is worth several pounds of cure where the human body is concerned.

The bootleggers who have been unloading and distributing whiskey on my premises, incidentally setting fire to my woods, may take
notice that if they don’t stop it I will—Advertisement in Savannah newspaper.

The Thanksgiving turkey crop for this year is estimated to be 4 percent larger than last year. Here’s hoping we
all get our full quota of that increase next week.

VIEWS AND REVIEWS

By Chatham Clark

It is with a spirit of reverence and appreciation that we read “Blades,” the last of thirty outstanding novels by
George Barr McCutcheon. We remember him as the author of the Graustark books, as well as many interesting novelettes. Someone
has justly called him “The King of Story Tellers,” and in this last novel he has proven himself even more
deserving of this title. The book derives its name from that of its hero, Jasper Elias Bernadotte Blades, otherwise known
as “Barnaby” or “The Barnacle,” because he stuck like a leech—you simply couldn't shake him off. This trait was evident
on the football team, and in his valorous war record. On his return from France, he was one of the
few that did not think the world owed him a living for having fought in defense of so noble a
cause. In the business world, he did not prove a success, but in social affairs, he was constantly in demand.
This steady strain on his pocketbook led him to investigate the estate left by his great uncle, Prime Dimmesdale, who
when quite a young man gave up his home in New York to join a “Company of Ghosts,” thus retiring
to a secluded spot in Canada, completely out of touch with the surrounding world. The first task for Blades was
to establish the fact that he was really the grand nephew of Prime Dimmesdale. Second, to live among this “Company
of Ghosts” for a trial period of three months. He readily established his claims and set out to investigate this
remote spot, but not without some slight apprehension. After several days of travel, mostly on foot, he arrived at the
little town, New Scrooby, which was to be his home for three months. This town was one exactly as would
be found among the pages of “Pilgrim's Progress.” Completely a self-supporting unit where such ancient customs as punishment in the
stocks, and the night watch were still in existence. The village contained forty small houses and a church where the
church officer still went the rounds with his staff prodding its members to keep them awake. The Barnaby Blades of
old learned to love this place and consider its inhabitants his people. His period of trial was extended to six
months in order to give him time to accustom himself to the life, and arrive at a definite decision. During
this time he fell in love with beautiful Cynthia Standish, which in the end turns out as one would expect
it to, completing a beautiful love story. He was called the “Barnacle” because it was not in him to let
go of a thing, but after six months he gave up the name for Jasper, for in so doing he
relinquished all claims to his former life and for the first time found himself.

One of the latest books in the library is "Rainbow 'Round My Shoulder," by Howard W. Odum. It must be
good if H. L. Mencken thinks so.
