8 4 asigeeil THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1928

Phi Society Diplomas to Grads

For quite a number of years, it has been customary for the Philanthropic Literary Society to award diplomas for faithful service in the society. This year the graduating list from the society totals 13. The number this year has reached a higher mark than in previous ones. Last year there were a few less than 10, and although the numbers from year to year vary only a little, it is sufficient to see that the interest was revived. With renewed interest next year, it is hoped that more diplomas will be presented.

The members of the Phi Society receiving awards are: B. W. Dickson, W. A. Brown, D. A. Currie, R. A. Glenn, A. H. McPhaul, C. F. McRae, B. F. Martin, M. A. Morrison, M. C. O’Neal, F. A. A. Phillips, H. T. Powell, Jr., L. K. Pritchett, and W. G. Smith. The diploma itself is of a goodly size and states the name of the society and to whom it is given. Work in the society with sincere and earnest effort through four college years is the merit it deserves.

Davidson Defeated by Carolina Team

In the Carolina-Davidson golf match, which was played Monday, April 23rd, at the Charlotte Country Club, the Davidson team came out the loser. In the morning, Mills, of Davidson, and Adams, of Carolina, tied. Martin, Wilson, and Lingle were defeated, respectively, by Mason, Stewart, and Vanstory, of Carolina. The team had somewhat better luck in the afternoon in the doubles, however, with Lingle and Wilson defeating Vanstory and Stewart, one up, and Martin and Mills winning from Mason and Adams, two up.

SOCIAL MERRIMENT (Continued from page 1)

using class talent entirely. To say that it was good would be putting it mildly. The jokes were clever and the songs were catchy and pleasing. The audience was in an exceptionally good humor and was very appreciative. The final event of Junior Speaking was the Y.M.C.A. vesper services Sunday afternoon. M. M. King, president of the Junior Class, presided. This proved to be a very impressive service, well suited to end the delightful program of Junior Speaking.

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY
William Boyd in Skyscraper

TUESDAY
W. C. Fields and Chester Conklin in Fools for Luck

WEDNESDAY
Joan Crawford in Diamond Handcuffs

THURSDAY
Victor McLaglen in Hangman’s House

FRIDAY
Bebe Daniels in The Fifty-Fifty Girl

SATURDAY
Tim McCoy and Dorothy Sebastian in Wyoming

$8 is just the right price that the thoughtful man wants to pay for a shoe today. At this price, the Bates Eight gives him finest materials, masterly workmanship, smart models, and a custom-built appearance. Why pay more—without getting more? Come in and let us explain the features of the Bates Eight. Perfect fitting is assured with our new Automatic Foot Measuring Machine.

The Column

Following the programs of the Junior and Freshman classes, the Sophomore class will have charge of the vesper services, Sunday evening. In the Freshman program, it will be remembered that Nature was discussed, while in the Junior service, Harllee Branch ably spoke of Human Nature and Man as connected with nature. The topic which will be thought upon on Sunday is not yet announced, but it is certain to be interesting and profitable. Vespers will be held on the lawn back of the “Y” building at 6:15.

F. R. Brown and J. R. Graham represented Davidson at the State Officers’ Training Conference, which was held at Duke University last weekend. The purpose of this conference was to discuss various situations and problems which arise in “Y” work. All of the colleges in the state were represented. On Saturday afternoon, different delegates gave short talks on various topics, Graham speaking on Social Work in New York City. A reception and social hour followed the address of the evening by Arthur Rough, a nationally known “Y” worker.

Under the editorship of W. K. Pritchett, the new “Wildcat Handbook” is rapidly nearing completion. As has been the custom in past years, copies will be mailed during the summer to all members of the oncoming Freshman class, who have registered. Upperclassmen will be able to procure their copies at the “Y” office next fall.

Booklet is Printed Explaining ‘Y’ Work

A little booklet entitled, “Why the ‘Y’?” has recently been issued by Jim Appleby, the “Y” secretary. This book was gotten out by the work of Jim and the “Y” Cabinet, which asked him to do it. This little booklet deals with the work of the Young Men’s Christian Association on the Davidson campus. First, the pamphlet tells of the history of the organization here. When the “Y” was first organized here at Davidson is not certain. It is first mentioned in the catalogue of 1878-79. Next, the purpose of the “Y” is given, then the organization. The “Y” has two governing bodies: the Board of Control and the Cabinet. The duties of these bodies are given in detail. The work of the “Y” is then discussed, dividing it into its different phases as: Weekly meetings, attendance, church relations, community work, boys’ work, Sunday Schools, world evangelism, deputations, freshman work, handbook, vocational guidance, and personal work. This little booklet is a means of letting the students and other people know the extensive work that the “Y” carries on. It also answers the question, “Why the ‘Y’?” These books may be gotten free of charge by calling at the “Y” and seeing Jim.

ARBUCKLE HONORED (Continued from page 1)

local activities as well as in many nationally recognized organizations. Dr. Arbuckle is a junior-founder of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity and has for many years served as grand councillor of that order. The story of the younger Arbuckle’s successes on the campus...is one of continued achievements. His scholastic average for his junior year, 1926-27, was 97.88 percent, the highest in the Davidson student body. He is one of the two men in his class who have won the distinction of being members of both Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership, and Phi Beta Kappa, national scholastic fraternities. "Coffee," as he is better known on the campus, has served as president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, as president of the renowned old Eumanean Literary Society, as Cadet Major of the local R.O.T.C. battalion, and as a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet. Besides being a member of the two outstanding honorary fraternities already mentioned, he is also a member of the following honor societies: Alpha Phi Epsilon, national forensic fraternity, Scabbard and Blade, national military fraternity, International Relations Club, and the Beaver Club, Sophomore honor society.

Vreete is a Howard in the best sense of the word. He has chosen as his profession that in which his father has notably distinguished himself, that is, teaching. Following his graduation in May, Arbuckle will take a position as a junior counselor of a boys’ camp and in September will take his place as a member of the faculty of one of the South’s leading prep schools, looking forward, perhaps, to a career similar to his father’s on a college faculty.

BUSINESS MANAGERS (Continued from page 1)

He is a member of the Pyramid Club social fraternity, was elected to the Court of Control, and has been prominent as a public speaker. Dumas appointed the following as his business staff for the coming year: assistant business managers, R. B. Erckmann, E. C. Roberts, J. A. Wilson; subscription manager, S. W. Smith; assistant advertising managers, W. R. Hill and E. L. Roberson; circulation managers, H. C. Harrill and J. T. McNair.

COLLEGIATE PRESS

The other officers elected for the coming year were Walter Spearman, president, of the University of Carolina, Kittie Gravely, vice-president, of N.C.C.W., and Alice Dowd, secretary, of Meredith. In the awarding of cups and prizes, Duke came out first with two first places, the Chronicle, newspaper, and Archive, magazine. A miniature cup was awarded to the Old Gold and Black, Wake Forest, for the best editorials. Runners-up in the prize for the best newspaper were the Carolinian, of N.C.C.W., and the Old Gold and Black, of Wake Forest. The cup for the best annual was given to the Pine Needles, of N.C.C.W. The Carolina Magazine was second to the Archive. Guilford and Davidson were runners-up for the best editorials. Attending the convention for Davidson were A. N. Brown, J. G. Wharton, C. M. Pratt, D. W. Hancock, R. C. Grady, and R. F. Jarratt.

DEAN BRADSHAW (Continued from page 1)

He stated that it is imperative that we have leaders who are able to control the vast force that civilization has given us. In days gone by, the man was not prevented from carrying a stone with him, but now he is prevented from carrying a revolver. The 16-year-old was then allowed to ride a horse, but today he is not allowed to drive a 40-horsepower motor. “Instead of the fierce and unquestioning loyalty to old statements of faith, will we not need tolerant and searching criticism of the old followed by courageous and creative effort to once more give form to the undying aspirations and differences of the human heart?” asked Dean Bradshaw in the climax of his speech.

Design a Better Engine

An engine combining greater endurance and more complete combustion of a cheaper fuel, men may fly faster, further, more safely, and for less money. You will have promoted the intercourse of nations.

IF YOU discover a way to grow cotton more cheaply and market it more profitably, a great section of our country may be released from economic uncertainty. You will have enriched the Southern States.

IF YOU give yourself to the reform of judicial procedure, and succeed in restoring public confidence in the administration of justice, the very foundation of our government may be secured. You will have saved your country.

If, however, you become a preacher of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, you go into a still more useful class: You give the final touch of value to the high endeavors of these others; you make worthwhile the intercourse of nations, the enrichment of States, the stability of government. And, besides these by-products—

You enter into the immediate service of God himself, and your life is thenceforth concerned with the highest of all values—the welfare of human souls.

IF YOU will approach this subject with an open mind and yielded heart, this advertisement may be found to voice your call to the ministry. Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a happy and achieving life. Perhaps we can help you.

Write to B. R. LACY, Jr., D. D., President
Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia

The 10th and last of our "If You" Series of Advertisements