Mumble—No, he wears his own clothes.

Page Six
THE DAVIDSONIAN
December 6, 1928.

ACTIVITIES SCHEDULE
(Adopted by Honorary Fraternity Council)

Weeks beginning December 3, 17, January 14, 28, February 11, 25, March 11, 25, April 8, 22, May 6.

MONDAY
Phi and Eu Societies

TUESDAY
Glee Club 6:30
Glee Club

WEDNESDAY
Court of Control 7:00
Sigma, Pi Sig 8:30

THURSDAY
Scabbard and Blade
O. D. K.

FRIDAY
Glee Club
Delta Pi Kappa
Gamma Sigma Epsilon

Weeks beginning December 10, January 7, 21, February 4, 18, April 1, 15, 29, May 13.

MONDAY
Phi and Eu Societies

TUESDAY
Eta Sigma 6:30
Glee Club

WEDNESDAY
Court of Control 7:30
Biology Club

THURSDAY
International Relations Club 8:30
O. P. A.
Upsilon A. P. E.

FRIDAY
Glee Club
Phi

POST THIS FOR REFERENCE

DWELLERS OF EAST ARE ACCOMPLISHED IN FANCY DANCING
Impromptu Orchestra Provides Rhythmical Harmony for Reviewers of Square Dances

Looming high in current social events was the Stag Square Dance held in the parlor of East, last Saturday night.
Pleasant lighting effects, rhythmic music, and smoke-laden atmosphere featured the struggle. Due to the fact that it was unannounced, a
better crowd was present than was expected. Only twice in a period of over two hours the figures were stopped
in order to allow the musicians and “caller” an opportunity to catch breath. Because of lack of floor space the
“Virginia Reel” was the only commonly known figure omitted.

During the first intermission it was decided that, due to the large number of unexpected guests present, refreshments would not
be served as planned. It was further agreed that each “gentleman” should provide for his escort at the termination of
the last figure. Chorus girls would have found themselves put to shame by many trippers of the fantastic toe. That
famous Russian Toe Dancer would have blushed in embarrassment at many of the number twelves scraping the floor. Ziegfeld and
Earl Carroll undoubtedly missed a good opportunity for future “Scandals.” It is unfortunate that announcement cannot be made to the
effect that a special exhibition will be given at some future date. Offers have not been received from the Carolina
Theatre but are expected daily.

It would be hard to determine those who were outstanding on this social occasion. Mention is certainly due to Sid
McCarty, caller for the evening. Little escaped him and he proved to be both the life and inspiration of the
party, proving himself familiar with all figures. Johnny Melton also exhibited great form and showed knowledge of this particular method
of recreation; he was accompanied by Rut Nunan. Also deserving of mention was Pat Boyle, who captivated all by his
gracefulness, lightness of foot, and his jigs between rounds. He was accompanied by “Happy” Gladstone. Among those who shined with
their shins were: Messrs: Ellett, Ramseur, Burch, Norton, Powell, Kramer, and Hayes. Special honor goes to the orchestra, composed of
“Proc” Thompson, guitar, and Bettis, three mouth organs. These men, one an alumnus and the other a student, gave their
all for Davidson. Their breath was long and their lung capacity prodigious. “A good time was had by all.”

Mutter and Mumble

Mutter—Well, Mr. Mumble, is your son going back to college this term?
Mumble—Certainly. He has to, he’s got a whole bottle of gin left.
Mutter—Does he spend all his time drinking?
Mumble—No, he runs around with women part of the time.
Mutter—Is your boy a sophomore?
Mumble—Yes.
Mutter—Does he like college?
Mumble—Yes.
Mutter—That’s fine. What is he interested in?
Mumble—A blonde from Detroit.
Mutter—I mean, what is he following?
Mumble—Co-eds.
Mutter—Don’t be silly; a co-ed isn’t a study.
Mumble—Well, one of them taught him a lesson.

DAVIDSON’S RADIO STATION WORKING

Some of Davidson's radio fans have built a station in the old pump house below the tennis courts. The project
was sponsored by the Physics department and it was through the influence of Dr. J. M. Douglas and Professor Fulcher
that they procured the use of the house. Those engaged in the work are: S. L. McCarty, R. B. Hayes,
D. J. Caldwell, F. H. Rollins, H. S. Monroe, T. H. Hall, E. S. Bettis, and S. M. Woodson. At
present they have a 25-watt set, but they hope to build soon a 1000-watt affair. The one they now have
is by no means of inferior quality, however, for recently they communicated with Australia. Sid McCarty has had it for
some time and from time to time he has communicated with many foreign countries. He has cards acknowledging messages received
from Czechoslovakia, Italy, Hungary, Germany, France, Costa Rica, Cuba, and Canada. In the United States he has exchanged messages with
forty states, including California and Oregon. One of the Canadian stations was on Prince Edward Island and another in Vancouver,
British Columbia. Occasionally they have had some trouble talking with foreigners who did not speak English, the international wireless language,
but they managed fairly well by using international “Q signals” which suffice for ordinary wireless conversations. Sid McCarty announces that
they will be glad to transmit messages for any of the boys. It would hardly be worthwhile to send any
to a destination less than five hundred miles, he states. Last year at one time he caught a message relayed
by a New Hampshire station which had originated in New Zealand. He mailed it on to its destination in Durham
where it arrived less than twenty-four hours after it was started in New Zealand.

Mutter—What does he expect to be when he grows up?
Mumble—A man.
Mutter—Certainly. All kids will become men if they live long enough.
Mumble—You’re crazy. His sister won’t.
Mutter—I’m speaking of the contrary sex.
Mumble—Well, women are the contrary sex.
Mutter—Did your son get any high marks last year?
Mumble—Yes, somebody hit him in the forehead with a ginger ale bottle.
Mutter—Did he do any damage?
Mumble—No; luckily he didn’t have his hat on.
Mutter—It might have knocked him senseless.
Mumble—Yes, but fortunately he wasn’t thinking of anything at the time.
Mutter—A college education is a wonderful thing. Is your boy an apt pupil?
Mumble—Yes, he’s apt to get thrown out of school any day.
Mutter—Does he gamble?
Mumble—Sure. He lost fifty dollars in a crap game last week.
Mutter—How did it happen?
Mumble—They wouldn’t let him use his own dice.
Mutter—Is he taking up any special studies?
Mumble—Yes, I think he is going to be a veterinary surgeon.
Mutter—What makes you think so?
Mumble—Because most of his money goes on horses.
Mutter—I thought Mrs. Mumble said he was studying to be a linguist.
Mumble—He is. He wants to be able to eat alphabetical soup in seven languages.

REV. McELWAY TALKS
(Continued from page 1)

“The second sin is thinking that the ends of our noses is the horizon. That is the folly of thinking
that what you want is what you ought to have. In the scriptures we find the words ‘The fool saith
in his heart there is no God.’”

“There are not only great examples of righteousness in the scriptures but also of folly. The 51st Psalm records David's
repentance as a fool for his sins.”

“Samson paid the wages, not only of sin but also of folly. The multitude had the curse of Christ’s murder
on their heads for sin, not alone, but also for folly.”

“The very talented and rich young ruler, who can be likened to one whom we would select as our student
body president or campus leader, was an outstanding example of a fool. He turned away from Christ because he was
a sinner and a fool.”

“But the greatest of all fools,” said Rev. McElway, “is a Judas. Judas, who sold not only Christ, but himself
for thirty pieces of silver because he was so great a fool, is living today. He goes to many prayer
meetings, is a member of the church and prays and talks too much.”

“Not only are there Judases today, but Samsons, rich young rulers, multitudes, and Davids.”

“There are three crosses today,” said the speaker in closing, “they are: the one in the middle with Christ on
it, the one on the left with fools onIt and the one on the right with those who have discovered
and learned the wickedness of folly.”

Mumble—Fifty-fifty.
Mutter—What do you mean by fifty-fifty?
Mumble—His English is fine but his Scotch is diluted.
—Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph.

From the Air
Heidelberg College—(CNA)—The football which was used in the game with Hiram at Heidelberg College last week was dropped from an
airplane to start the game. Kenneth Ebel, a former Heidelberg student, entertained the crowd before the game with stunt flying
and then dropped the ball to the field when it was time for the game to start. The wind was
strong and the ball struck the fence when released and bounced out of the field. It was recovered and the
game started.

BLUE DEVILS WIN
(Continued from page 1)
Air thrusts, coupled with line drives by Godfrey and Murray, took the ball to Davidson’s one-yard line and Murray skirted
left end for the marker. Buie converted with a perfect boot through the uprights. The second quarter might well be
entitled “War Birds.” Duke’s backfield and flank men continued the air game with disastrous results for their opponents.

Keeps It Up
Immediately after the period opened, Duke ripped off three first downs in a row in a drive from its own
46-yard line to its third touchdown. Murray clipped off six yards, Jankoski, on his first play after substitution, added 16
yards on a pass from Buie, and Buie heaved to Godfrey for five yards. Duke mixed a devastating potpourri of
drives and passes, Jankoski finally circling left end for five yards. The remaining four and three-quarter inches to a touchdown
were negotiated by Buie, who failed to kick the goal. Passes and more passes darkened the skies for the remainder
of the half which went scoreless. Davidson performed a miraculous feat in keeping possession of the oval during the greater
part of the period, but the virtually impregnable Duke line likened the visitors to the individual who is all dressed
up with no place to go. Davidson didn’t get far, but Harper and Flinn thwarted separate Duke sallies into their
territory by intercepting a Blue Devils pass each.

Forced to Punt
Unsuccessful line plunges invariably forced Davidson to punt out of immediate danger. The most spectacular pass of the game, netted
Duke 38 yards, sailed in the half’s closing moments from Buie to Peeler. Duke’s remaining 13 points came in the
third quarter. Another alternating series of passes and line smashes early in the period brought the Blue Devils to Davidson's
30-yard line before they were momentarily halted, the longest gain of this episode proving a 28-yard pass from Buie to
Warren. Davidson afterward threw a scare into their rivals when the referee gave them the ball on their punt at
Duke’s 27-yard line when he penalized the Blue Devils for an infraction of the rules. It looked like a case
of holding.

Davidson Position Duke
Brock LE Warren
Leftwich LT Weatherby
DeCamp LG Jones
R. McConnel C C. Hunter
Smith RG Thorne
Baker RT Kistler
Davids RE Rosky
Kell QB Buie
Flinn LH Hatcher
Brohard RH Murray
Fraley FB Godfrey

Score by periods:
Davidson: 0 0 0 0—0
Duke: 14 6 13 0—32

Scoring touchdowns: Duke, Godfrey, Murray, Buie, Hatcher, Abernethy. Points after touchdown, Duke, Buie 3 (dropkicks).

Substitutions:
Davidson: Middleton for David, Black for Brohard, Harper for DeCamp, Archie for Leftwich, Mills for Smith, Hill for Baker, Johnson
for Brock, Brohard for Fraley, Parker for Mills, Goodykoontz for Kell, McCall for Flinn.
Duke: Jankoski for Murray, Hollingsworth for Jankoski, Hayes for Rosky, Peeler for Warren, Hollingsworth for Buie, Brummitt for Kistler, Bunting
for Jones, Plyer for Murray, Murray for Hollingsworth, Lake for Hatcher, Gobbel for Lake, Davis for Brummitt.

Officials: Referee, Major (Auburn); umpire, Gass (Lehigh); headlinesman, Rawson (Georgia).

Davidson Theatre
Monday, December 10th
DOLORES DEL RIO in “The Red Dance”
Tuesday, December 11th
ROD LA ROQUE in “Love Over Night”
Wednesday, December 12th
BUDDY RODGERS in “Someone to Love”
Thursday, December 13th
BILLIE DOVE in “Adoration”
Friday, December 14th
VICTOR McLAGLEN and BELLE BENNETT in “Mother Machree”
Saturday, December 15th
KEN MAYNARD in “The Phantom City”
Monday, December 17th
ALICE WHITE in “Naughty Baby”

Mutter—How is he progressing?
How can you cut through traffic when it moves like this?

Oxford Revolt
Oxford, England—(CNA)—A thousand students, revolting against what they claimed was unusually strict enforcement of university rules, stormed the proctor’s building
last week. Windows were broken and telephones disconnected. Fire engines were summoned, but the municipal police stood by without interfering.
The Proctors at Oxford have wide administrative authority and are responsible for discipline. College authorities are searching for the ringleaders.

Goodbye Dartmouth
Hanover, N. H. (by New Student Service)—A Dartmouth student has done what almost everyone who has read Walden yearns to
do at one time or another. Curtis H. Glover, twenty, and a junior, has bid goodbye to college and civilized
life to begin anew in the woods, far away from the painful pressures of organized society. “Goodbye Dartmouth,” he wrote
in a letter published in The Dartmouth: “By the time you read this I shall be aboard a train speeding
to northern wilds where I intend to prepare myself for a higher life than college leads to; the life described
by Thoreau in Walden. I have existed in your civilization now for twenty years. I have existed merely as a
spectator. You have forced me to do certain things, and I have done them—reluctantly always inwardly rebelling. Now I have
decided to give expression to my wild nature, and to try whether it be possible to live humanly.”

The new Walden is located in the White Mountains on the estate of Mr. Glover, senior, who is a wealthy
Boston architect. The news reports do not tell much about the economic side of the experiment, which to us, seems
the crucial one. For what Henry Thoreau was principally intent upon doing was to find out how one might live
the most complete and satisfying life that was possible, with the minimum expenditure of energy in filling the belly and
housing the body. If that is one of the purposes of the experiment it will be worth watching.

Select New Ohio State Coach
Columbus, Ohio (CNA)—Samuel B. Willaman will succeed Dr. John W. Wilce as head football coach at Ohio State at the
start of the 1929 season. Willaman is to be given a one-year contract as head coach at the start of
the official school year June 1. Willaman is an Ohio State star. He attended the university from 1909 to 1913
inclusive and was a fullback in 1913 on the first football team Dr. Wilce coached at the university.

Father—Lucile, this disappoints me terribly seeing you smoke. You are no daughter of mine.
Daughter—Well, cheer up Dad, I won’t tell a soul.

When a girl gets her dates mixed up her liability is her best asset.
She—How do you like my new dress?
He—Great for the shape that is in it.

A Short Story
The battle of the Marne—Marne, Pa.
First Frosh—Those gals are a couple of bias babies.
Second Goof—Whadda ya mean, “bias”?
First—Oh, “buy us this” and “buy us that” all the time.

The Victim (as barber cuts him for the fourth time)—You’d better give me a razor too, so that I can
defend myself.

She refused to kiss,
She refused to pet,
So this little miss
Ain’t a missis yet.

The College Man’s First Choice
You will find here more than the average number of shoe styles just suited to the college man’s taste. John
Wards are preeminent as the shoes that college men prefer.

John Ward MEN’S SHOES
See them on display By Bill Bailey and Dean Rusk 208 Watts, Davidson, N. C.

The Need of Those About You
Many of our acquaintances and even of our closest companions need help in spiritual things. Jesus looked on the multitude
with compassion and taught them.

What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?
ANSWER NO. 3
No two men are called in the same way. Perhaps your Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a
happy and achieving life; perhaps we could help you.

Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia
