THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1928

WILDCAT GRAPPLERS WIN
(Continued from page 1)

throwing Baker of Davidson in 4 minutes and 19 seconds. Culp, as southern intercollegiate champion, was defending his title for
the last time in his college career. In the State encounter, Davidson was easily victorious, winning four of the seven
matches by time decisions, one by a fall, and losing only one match by a time decision and one by
a forfeit. Hill, of Davidson, secured the only fall of the entire match, throwing his man in the extra period.
In the final battle of the meet, Baker of Davidson was knocked unconscious during the first period, and being unable
to resume the encounter, his match was forfeited.

Davidson-Duke Summary:
118 lb class—Applewhite of Duke got a time decision over Flythe of Davidson, of 4 minutes, 38 seconds.
128 lb class—Goode of Duke got a time decision over Brown of Davidson, of 5 minutes, 22 seconds.
138 lb class—Starnes of Duke got a time decision over Herriot of Davidson, of 6 minutes, 34 seconds.
148 lb class—Captain Garrison of Davidson got a time decision over Jennings of Duke, of 2 minutes, 19 seconds.
161 lb class—Cole of Duke got a time decision over Christenbury of Davidson, of 9 minutes, 16 seconds.
175 lb class—Jones of Duke got a time decision over Hill of Davidson, of 8 minutes, 59 seconds.
Unlimited class—Captain Culp of Duke threw Baker in 4 minutes, 19 seconds.

Davidson-N. C. State
118 lb class—Flythe of Davidson got a time decision over Hobbs of State: Extra period.
128 lb class—Brown of Davidson got a time decision over Bell of State. No extra period.
138 lb class—Herriot of Davidson got a time decision over Frisbie of State. Extra period.
148 lb class—Garrison of Davidson got a time decision over Moore of State. No extra period.
161 lb class—Choplin of State got a time decision over Christenbury of Davidson. No extra period.
175 lb class—Hill of Davidson won by a fall over Day of State. Extra period.
Unlimited class—Morris of State won over Baker of Davidson by a forfeit.

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY and TUESDAY
Clara Bow in “Red Hair”
WEDNESDAY
Eleanor Boardman in “The Crowd”
THURSDAY
Wallace Beery and Raymond Hatton in “Partners in Crime”
FRIDAY
Harold Bell Wright’s “Shepherd of the Hills”
SATURDAY
Zane Grey’s “Under Loato’s Rim” Based on his latest book

This is the eighth of a series of Advertisements

JAKE WADE
(Continued from page 1)

Mr. Wade did not paint such a brilliant picture of the reporter’s financial life. He stated that formerly the reporter
was very poorly paid, but that gradually the editors have begun to realize that the reporter who has received three
square meals does the best work. One of the high notes of Wade’s speech came when he asserted that the
newspaper man must be honest. He said that one is continually beset by two classes of people, the one who
demands why he didn’t publish something, and the other who asks why he did. The journalist cannot please everyone and
the successful newspaper man makes no attempt to do so.

NOTED SWISS WRITER
(Continued from page 1)

“Near the Snows and Glaciers,” “Under the Flag,” “Frontier Sketches,” and “The Cross on the Matterhorn.” M. Gos is now
making his third trip to the United States, partly as the representative of his father at the Museums now exhibiting
the paintings of Albert Gos, partly as a lecturer. He is visiting most of the important cities in the United
States, under the auspices of the Institute of International Education in New York City and of the Alliance Francaise (of
which the French Ambassador to the United States, Paul Claudel, is honorary president). During his stay in this country, M.
Gos is sending to the “Journal de Geneve” articles on various aspects of American life that are attracting wide attention.
There is no admission charge to the lecture, townspeople and students alike being cordially invited. Announcement is made from the
French department that the organization of a Cercle Francais is under consideration. Further particulars are not available at this time,
but this organization will serve in its field the same purpose as the already existing Spanish Club.

Davidson (12) Position Duke (9)
Wilson (12) Werber (9) Center
Rasen Harrison (9) Chandler (13) Guard
Hewlett (2) Farley (4) Guard
McAulay (1) Weaver (2) Baker
Roger (4) Crawford Bennett
Brummit Referee, Knight; score at end of half: D. C. 21; Duke, 21.

Davidson (30) Position Guilford (27)
Kuges Haworth (5) Forward
Pritchett (9) Griffin (2) Forward
Wilson (11) Moore (c) (9) Center
Harrison Marshall (7) Guard
Hewlett Coltrane (2) Guard
McAulay (10) Coble (2) Referee, Spencer; score at end of half: D. C. 15; Guilford, 13.

FORTY DAVIDSON SONGSTERS
(Continued from page 1)

Several changes have been made in the program and new selections for the chorus have been added. Ed. Wilson, star
soloist, will not accompany the club, but a violin solo by Charles Orr is an added attraction to the program.
Ed. Douglas reports other engagements for the club are to be filled next month, including appearances at the Carolina Theater
on March 12th, 13th, and 14th. Engagements at Badin, Converse, and Montreat, N. C., have also been arranged.

HONOR COURSES
(Continued from page one)

“The purpose of Group Honors is to arouse interest in a higher grade of work.”of intellectual achievement; to develop on
the part of the student the power of independent investigation and critical and constructive scholarship; to offer to him the
opportunity to pursue his chosen study as rapidly as his talents permit, and to deal with the content of a
field of learning rather than with courses.”

Any student who in his Freshman year has averaged 85 or better, and 90 or better during his Sophomore year
up to and including the mid-semester grades of the second semester will be eligible for Honors Courses, provided the professor
in that subject thinks that the student has sufficient background to take on additional work. Honors students shall in their
Junior and Senior year carry nine hours of regular class work besides their special honors work.

Nearly every branch of work is included in the proposed Honors Groups. The adoption of this system, based fundamentally upon
the method used at Oxford University, has become somewhat of a general thing in recent years. Outstanding colleges throughout the
land have taken it up as an essential step in the true education of their men. Davidson is taking a
distinctive step forward in adopting the system of Honors Courses, and it is thought that the plan so universally successful
will be well received here, and will do much to make Davidson an even better institution of learning. A few
of the prominent institutions to adopt the Honors Course Method are: Swarthmore, Princeton, Amherst, Cornell, Columbia, Duke, Emory, North Carolina,
Johns Hopkins, California, Yale, and Harvard.

FRESH DEBATE

The subject for the debate preliminaries for the Freshmen has been changed to: “Resolved, That Congress should enact the McNary-Haugen
Bill.” Material on this subject can be found in the library.

Jewelry Salesman Victim of Burglary

Jewelry to the amount of $1,800 was stolen from the Kappa Sigma house last Thursday night. A salesman for the
L. G. Balfour Co., of Attleboro, Mass., was here in the interest of his company and after showing his samples
went to this house to spend the night. Leaving his sample cases in one of the front rooms, he retired
and on looking the next morning a quantity of jewelry was found to be missing. The time of the robbery
was between 12:30 and 7:30 o'clock. In the list of pins, rings, etc., reported lost, there were twenty rings, watch
chains, two slabs of fraternity pins and other valuables. Local authorities were notified and detectives from the Burns Detective Agency
have taken the case in charge. No clues have been found yet, according to the workers.

Since 1868 the Home of Good Shoes

For Young Men Only

One of the snappiest models you have ever seen---a good, corking, comfortable, long-wearing Oxford that any young fellow would like.
At only $6 ASK TO SEE IT!

Union Seminary an Institution Which Has Trained Men for Many kinds of Service IN OUR HOME LAND.

Preachers and Pastors—They have preached everywhere, more than two thousand of them. Scarcely a church in the General Assembly has
not been served in the pastorate by at least one of them. They have served in mining towns, lumber camps,
and oil fields, as well as in the country village churches and the large city pastorates—such men as Stuart Robinson,
Moses D. Hoge, and Abner C. Hopkins.

Home Missionaries—They have extended the frontiers of the church as missionaries in the home land for more than a century,
beginning at a time when the frontier was not far from the Atlantic Ocean—such were Edward O. Guerrant and Edgar
Tufts.

Evangelists—Thousands of souls have been born into the Kingdom, the fruit of the labors of self-denying evangelists who received their
impulse at Union Seminary. Daniel Baker did an enormous work as a pioneer Evangelist.

Authors—Union Seminary’s founder was a man of books, and many of its students were writers of books. The thought of
the Church has been profoundly affected by some of these—like R. L. Dabney, T. E. Peck, W. W. Moore.

Editors—The editors of our three church papers were trained at Union Seminary. There have been many others—such as James P.
Smith, T. E. Converse, A. J. McKelway.

Teachers and Founders of Schools—Schools of all grades by dozens have been founded and taught by graduates of Union Seminary,
and it has supplied professors and presidents to many colleges and universities. William Henry Ruffner, founder of the public schools
of Virginia, and James B. Shearer, builder of Southwestern and Davidson, were graduates of this Seminary.

Professors of Theology—In the faculty of every theological seminary of our Church at home and in the foreign field are
to be found professors who were well trained in Union Seminary. G. B. Strickler and Theron H. Rice received their
training here.

Catalogue and information on request.

Union Theological Seminary
B. R. LACY, Jr., D. D., President
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

CITY DRY CLEANERS
W. L. HOBBS, Prop.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Represented by Neely and Wey, 108 West
Will Call on You Monday and Thursday Nights.

Six for Five
We Strive to Please
