THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 23, 1928

Victor Record of “Oh Davidson” Proposed

Plans for the gift that the class of ’28 will leave to the college are now being discussed. A committee has been appointed for the consideration of suggestions. This committee is as follows: R. C. Platt, chairman; H. B. Arbuckle, R. S. Link, J. S. McAlister, and W. F. Stigler. The present plan that is being considered is to get the Victor Talking Machine Company to release a record of “Oh, Davidson!” and “College Ties.” The committee is negotiating with the Victor Company at this time to find out if this will be possible, and if so, the prices, the orchestras, etc. It is stated that if this record is made by the Victor Company it will be due to the Senior class, because the company has made it known that it will not put out the record as its own undertaking.

There was another suggested plan which came before the class recently, but it was voted down. Under this proposition, the class was to take out $1,000 worth of life insurance for each member, the dividends to go to the college. This would have amounted to about $10,000 in ten years. The Southern Life Insurance Company of Greensboro was the firm that was to write this insurance. A few of the gifts proposed by members of the class are listed as follows: Lights for the “D;” endowment fund for athletics; roof or covering for the old columns; stage settings for the new auditorium.

Large Audience Attends Glee Club Performance After Successful Rendition of Program at Queens Reception is Given Club

Playing before the largest audience they had been given in recent years, the Davidson Glee Club put on an excellent performance at the Queens College auditorium in Charlotte, Wednesday evening, February 15th. The listeners were very appreciative, and much of that well-known “feminine charm” was in evidence. The entire program was well presented and much applause was given the club. Especially well-received was the stringed instrument trio, consisting of Proctor Thompson, Gordon McSwain, and H. R. Mobley. This trio made quite a hit with the Queens damsels, and were encored several times. Jack Ramseur, with his musical saw, also went over big with the girls and was forced to bring forth some of his “encore reserve.” After the performance, the members of the club were entertained royally at a reception given by the Queens girls. The reception was given in the hall of the main building.

The program of the evening was as follows:
1. College Ties—Glee Club.
2. Raymond Overture; Minuet in G—Concert Orchestra.
3. The Bell-man—The Club.
4. Baritone Solo—R. S. Lowrance.
5. Sunnyland Serenaders—C. J. Albright, director.
6. The Blind Ploughman—Glee Club.
7. Interlude—Stringed instrument trio: Thompson, McSwain, Mobley.
8. The Broken Melody; Bend Low Oh Dusky Night—Glee Club.
9. Sunnyland Serenaders.
10. Wildcat Quartet—Grey, Foster, Thompson.
11. Saw Novelty—J. H. Ramseur.
12. Mother’s Boy; Oh Davidson—Glee Club.

Senior Class Gift

Rifle Team Leaves Saturday for V.M.I.

Saturday of this week the rifle team will meet the V. M. I. Cadets in a shoulder-to-shoulder match. This match being the outstanding one of the season, it has been looked forward to with great enthusiasm and interest. Five men have been selected to represent Davidson against the Virginia Cadets. The team has just completed a series of workouts, having studied in detail the many firing positions, and the team is believed to be ready for their established opponents. For the past few weeks, the team has been firing against a good many schools throughout the United States in order to be in the very best condition for their cadet opponents. Davidson has engaged in firing with the following schools and colleges:
- A. and M. College of Oklahoma.
- Rhode Island State College.
- Culver Military Academy.
- A. and M. College of Mississippi.
- Louisiana State College.

Due to the time necessary to compile the scores, we are unable to give Davidson's rating in these matches, but it is believed without doubt, Davidson has an established place in the front ranks.

Literary Groups Choose Officials

On last Thursday, the 16th of February, the two literary societies, the Eumenean and the Philanthropic, held their regular meetings in their respective halls. The Philanthropic had a very interesting program. Mr. Jackson, of the class of ’06, made an interesting talk about the literary society in the days when he was a student here. The talk was in connection with the plans of having faculty members on the programs of both of the societies. This plan was started recently when the societies were reorganized. After Mr. Jackson’s talk, an Open Forum was held on the subject, “Resolved, That all men going out for varsity teams should be required to join one of the literary societies.” The next meeting will be very important as the election of officers will be held. There will be a “feed” after the elections.

The Eumenean Literary Society had a very important meeting last Thursday night. Officers for the remainder of the year were elected. Some of the elections were very close.

We offer a set of four Clubs and Canvas Bag for $8.50. We restring Tennis Racquets. Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods CHARLOTTE, N. C.

S & W Cafeterias are catering to you CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE ASHEVILLE RALEIGH (ATLANTA Soon)

A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharge over 1,000 gallons of water in 30 minutes, or about35 gallons in 60 seconds. No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our SPRINKLER LEAKAGE POLICY. The cost is a trifle compared with the protection. INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY INSURANCE DEPARTMENT CHARLOTTE, N.C. J. B. SPEIR, JR. (26)

NEGRO QUARTET COMING
Mr. E. F. Shewmake, of the Faculty Lecture Committee, announces that the quartet from Hampton Normal and Industrial School, Hampton, Va., will appear in Shearer Hall on the night of March 2nd, at 7:30. This program promises to be one of interest to students and townspeople as well, and those in charge are expecting a large attendance. This quartet has sung here in years past and their selections of negro spirituals have proved most popular, although the other numbers are always well received. There will be no charge for this attraction, the committee announced.

The following men were chosen to fill the offices for the rest of the year: Tyree Dillard, president; W. H. Bailey, vice-president; W. B. McGuire, secretary; and Caldwell Withers, critic. After the elections, the members were entertained with a feed. The regular meeting will be held next Tuesday.

On Monday, Johnnie Melton and Bob Kell represented D.C. at the state convention held at Winston-Salem this year, and report a very good series of meetings.

A very valuable book that is now available for men on the campus is the “Testament for Fishers of Men,” by Dr. Wade C. Smith. This little book is without an equal in helping you approach a man in regard to choosing his life work, and things of that sort. If you intend to enter the field of religious endeavor, get this volume without delay. You need it.

The annual state meeting of the North Carolina Y.M.C.A. Associations was held in Winston-Salem last Sunday and Monday, February 19th and 20th, for the purpose of dedicating the local Y.M.C.A. building, which has been recently erected in that city. Davidson was represented by Bob Kell and John Melton. During this occasion, the city was honored by the presence of two very noted speakers: Dr. John Brown, of New York, and Charles P. Taft, II, of Cincinnati. The completion of this modern and fully equipped structure marks a noted step in the growth of the Twin City and adds distinctly to the urban as well as to the convenience of the inhabitants and visitors. The program rendered was as follows:

Sunday, 3:15 p.m.—Dedication of the building. Speakers: Chas. P. Taft and Dr. John Brown.
5:15 p.m.—Meeting of committees.
Monday, 7:30 a.m.—Fellowship breakfast for employed officers, in honor of P. M. Colbert, of Atlanta, and Dr. John Brown, of New York.
9:30 a.m.—Business session; Morgan B. Speir, chairman of state committee, presiding. Devotional period, Bishop Rondthaler.
10:00 a.m.—Organization. Introductions. Appointment of committees.
10:30 a.m.—State committee’s annual report, presented by Mr. Speir. Business items and announcements.
12:30 p.m.—Luncheon. Meeting of committee on state committee’s report. Meeting of student electoral district.
2:00 p.m.—Devotional period, Dr. Howard E. Rondthaler. Address, P. M. Colbert, general secretary, Y.M.C.A., Atlanta.

(Continued on page 7)

Annual North Carolina Y.M.C.A. Meeting Held in Winston-Salem

W. and M. First on Forensic Schedule

On Wednesday, February 29th, the Davidson debating season will be opened by a debate with William and Mary College, on the subject: “Resolved, That the United States Cease to Protect Capital of its Citizens in Foreign Lands.” At this time Frank Hall and Carl Pritchett will take the affirmative for Davidson. Hall will speak first, and, although this is his first year on the team, he served as alternate last year and therefore has had considerable experience. Pritchett will be the second speaker. While only a Sophomore, he is promising to become one of the best debaters on the team this year. Last year he was on the Freshman debating team that defeated Carolina. Since the query is a topic of national discussion and interest, as has been indicated by the daily newspapers and by Congress, the debate is expected to be one of the best on this year’s schedule. The debate will be held in the Queens College auditorium in Charlotte at 8:00 p.m. This will be the second time that William and Mary and Davidson have met in debate, William and Mary having been defeated by a 2 to 1 decision last year.

“Miranda, wassat light shinin’ in yo’ eyes?”
“Thas ma stop light, Rastus.”—Georgia Cracker.

SEEK YE NO FURTHER, DIOGENES

This jobbie Diogenes was a Greek who left his fruit stand for the commendable purpose of questing for honesty by good old-fashioned lamp-light. And now, loud and ever clearer, rings the cry from the housetops: “Diogenes—throw away your lantern... here’s an honest cigarette! Have a Camel!” Camels have but one raison d’être—to pack the smoke-spots of the world with the “fill-fullment” every experienced smoker seeks. Fill your own smoke-spot with a cool cloud of Camel smoke, and hear it sing out—“Eureka!” (from the Greek, “Eureka,” meaning—“Oboy, here ‘tis!”).

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N.C.