Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN October 18, 1928.

ALUMNI NEWS

Washington and Lee Head, an Alumni of Davidson, Has Offered Resignation

Dr. Henry Louis Smith Recently Announced His Intention to Retire

DAVIDSON PRESIDENT

He Directed Affairs of This Institution from 1901-1912, After Acting as Professor of Physics Fifteen Years

Plans are being made for many meetings between now and Homecoming Day, according to the alumni secretary. It will be
practically impossible to schedule gatherings outside of the state during the football season because of the publicity phase in the
alumni office, but most of the organizations will call their alumni together in North Carolina.

Letters have been sent to a number of the local association presidents within a radius of a hundred miles of
Davidson, and some replies have already been obtained. It is thought that organizations at Asheville, Charlotte, Statesville, Rock Hill, S.C.,
Greensboro, and others will meet. Plans for the Columbia, S.C., alumni to stage a celebration tonight were frustrated when the
vice-president, who was making arrangements, was called outside the city.

Newspapers throughout the southland last week carried dispatches announcing the resignation of Dr. Henry Louis Smith, ‘81, as president of
Washington and Lee University, his retirement to take place next July. This announcement was of unusual interest to Davidson College,
for the double reason that he is an alumnus of this institution and because he served as its president from
1901-1912.

Hailed as one of the most fascinating and intellectual speakers in the south, declared to be one of the most
intellectual geniuses, and upheld as a progressive and effective educator, Dr. Smith’s decision to relinquish the Washington and Lee presidency
brings to a close an active and colorful career.

Dr. Smith was born in Greensboro in 1850, entering Davidson College from that city. He graduated here in 1881, and
during his four-year stay won the mathematics medal in 1879, and Greek medal and essayist’s medals in 1881, and was
his literary society's representative.

Dr. Smith taught actively and effectively at Selma Academy in North Carolina for five years, was a graduate student of
the University of Virginia for two years, coming to Davidson to take his master of arts degree, which he obtained
in 1887. In 1890 he obtained a Ph.D. degree from the University of Virginia, and the University of North Carolina
conferred upon him an LL.D. degree in 1906. From 1887-1901 Dr. Smith taught physics at Davidson, and during the latter
year was elevated to the presidency, where he remained until 1912, accepting the post which he so recently resigned.

During the time that Dr. Smith attended the University of Virginia his oratorical ability gained prominence, and he won two
medals for platform work. He was president of the North Carolina Teachers’ Assembly, 1880-1890, a member of the National Geographic
Society, has lectured on educational and scientific topics in chautauquas and summer schools, and in 1920 was appointed by the
state of Virginia to present the Washington statue to the English people in London, being a guest of the British
government and the king of England at that time. Dr. Smith is listed in the “Who’s Who of America.”

Dr. Smith’s prominence in the educational life of the South has been indicated by the frequent editorial comments which have
appeared since the announcement was made of his retirement. The alumni office has on file editorials from The Charlotte Observer,
The Greensboro Daily News, and The Richmond Times-Dispatch, all of which lauded him for his attainments during his career. The
Charlotte Observer declared that “Dr. Smith’s administration of the affairs at that (Washington and Lee) university was productive of many
advancements” and then cited the erection of a gymnasium and the establishment of a school of journalism. The Greensboro Daily
News said that “if any man is entitled to free himself from the responsibilities of a university presidency, here is
one.” The editor went on to say “the imprint of his personality, of his eager energy and of his strong
character is not so easily removed.” The Richmond Times-Dispatch expressed the opinion that he “has given to Washington and Lee
a notable administration, and he may retire with the consciousness of a work well done.”

The alumni secretary is anxious to see these organizations working actively and effectively as a strong connecting link between former
students, the local office, and the college. Several new associations will probably be perfected this year in places where Davidson
men are centralized. Before the scholastic year 1928-1929 is over, associations from St. Petersburg, Fla., and from Wilmington to Louisville,
Ky., will have met at least one time.

During the next few weeks the alumni secretary will prepare a list of Davidson College students attending other institutions, listing
those who have graduated, and those who are not graduates. The names of additional men will be gladly received at
any time. Today, the following are presented:

At Harvard
1923—Wallace Moore.
1924—D. B. Wharton.
1926—S. Wilson Moore.
1927—H. M. Austin, L. H. Leathers, D. Wharton, Jr., W. S. Woods.
1928—B. G. Alderman, Tyree Dillard, J. S. McAllister, Jr., J. R. McCravey, Jr., Rod McRae, Gordon McSwain, Boyce Martin, O.
P. Nisbet, J. R. Stevenson, F. S. Wearn, O. P. Wearn.

At Boston Tech
1928—B. W. Miller.

At Springfield “Y” College
1923—C. R. Crawford.

At Yale
1921—Lewis B. Schenck.
1925—J. A. Lake, Jr.

At Columbia University
1926—H. L. Shaw, Jr.
1928—J. W. Reid, Jr.

At New York University
1924—A. M. Hillhouse.
1926—C. E. Houston.

At Princeton
1925—Harry B. Price.
1926—R. W. Graves.

Diane—"Did you let him kiss you?”
Colleen—"Yes, he said he'd scream if I didn’t.”

Teacher—“Johnny, tell me something for which Eskimos are noted.”
Pupil—“Ginger ale.”

DAVIDSON ALUMNI COUNCIL MEETS TOMORROW

First Gathering of the Fall Scheduled for Charlotte Friday Night

IMPORTANT MATTERS

Homecoming Day Plans Will Occupy Center of Alumni Attention—Radio Program to be Discussed

The Davidson College Alumni Councilwill hold its first meeting this fall in the offices of local alumni associations between Charlotte,
tomorrow night at 7:30 o'clock, in the office of Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, '06, president of the General Association and
council. At that time a number of matters will be presented for discussion, one of the principal items being a
discussion of the Homecoming Day program, and selecting speakers for the occasion. Other matters for deliberation will be the question
of the method to be adopted in obtaining funds for the operation of the alumni office, whether a Davidson College
radio program will be presented over Station WBT in Charlotte on a night preceding Homecoming Day, and minor items concerning
the operation of the home office at Davidson. The Alumni Secretary will present a plan to the council of issuing
a miniature alumni bulletin as an experiment, through which he would obtain the opinion of alumni regarding the advisability of
making this a monthly affair, which would ultimately develop into a magazine. In addition to Dr. McKay, president, members of
the council are Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99, of Charlotte; Dr. J. C. Rowan, '04, of Concord; F. L. Jackson,
'06, of Davidson; Dr. Oren Moore, of Gastonia, and J. O. Cobb, '12, of Durham. Rev. J. C. McSween, '08,
president of the Presbyterian College of South Carolina and vice-president of the association, has also been invited to attend the
gathering. '08, of Charlotte; Hugh A. Query, '09, Alumni Personals at Durham, on October 11. Mr. Cobb is a member
of the class of 1912. Rev. T. H. Dimmock, '10, resigned his pastorate at Oxford, N. C., in September, to
accept a call to the Presbyterian Church at Newport News, Va. Rev. O. C. Williamson, '14, former missionary to Mexico,
is now Professor of Religious Education of the Mexican department of Austin Theological Seminary, Austin, Texas. Gilbert D. Sample, '20,
has been promoted by the Addressograph Company as district manager of the Birmingham, Ala., office, which covers the state of
Alabama and 10 counties in Florida. He is already situated in Birmingham and is located at 421 Martin Building. F.
K. Justice, '28, who is attending medical school at Emory University, Ga., has been pledged to the Phi Chi medical
fraternity. Mr. and Mrs. Warren M. Cox, Jr., announce the birth of a son, Warren M. Cox, III, on October
4, 1928. Mr. Cox, '24, is connected with the Meade-Johnson Co., at Evansville, Ind. Three Davidson alumni, Dr. Oren Moore,
'08; Judge E. McA. Currie, '16, and McAlister Carson, '13, are among the speakers who are assisting in the Salvation
Army drive in Charlotte. Rev. E. G. Clary, '16, has been elected moderator of the Presbytery of Cherokee, in Georgia.
Mr. Clary is located at Smyrna, Ga. Dr. and Mrs. King announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Norton, at
the Presbyterian Hospital, in Charlotte, on September 30. Dr. King is a '97-er. The Charlotte papers recently carried a notice
of the proposed apartment hotel for the Queen City, a project in which Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99, is vitally
interested. An editorial comment in The Charlotte News commended Dr. Matheson for the progressiveness he has shown from time to
time in leading new movements. Rev. A. C. Summers, '22, who last year studied in the department of religious education
at Yale University, has accepted a pastorate at Wylam, Ensley, Ala. Col. A. L. Gaston, '96, of Chester, S. C.,
was recently the principal speaker at the annual celebration held on Kings Mountain battleground. Rev. D. McD. Monroe, '16, pastor
at Vass, N. C., has been named moderator of the Fayetteville Presbytery at its meeting in September. Dr. R. M.
King, 1900, of Concord, has been re-appointed a member of the Cabarrus County board of charities and public welfare "in
recognition of his services during his former term," according to The Concord Tribune. Friends regretted to learn last weekend of
the death of Mrs. Lottie Brown Barnette, wife of W. Baxter Barnette, '01, of Davidson. Albert Kelly, '30, has again
been chosen as a member of the Emory University Glee Club. He was among those touring Europe with the club
this summer. Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Cobb, of Durham, announce the birth of a son at Watts Hospital, at
Durham, on October 11. Mr. Cobb is a member of the class of 1912. DOCTOR THOMPSON (Continued from page 1)
ball with his boys the next. A real man; a great preacher; a wonderful personality. You can’t afford to miss
him.” Jim Appleby, secretary of the Y. M. C. A. last year said, “When Dr. ‘Tolly’ smiles you feel good
all over, and you say to yourself, ‘There is a real Christian. There is a man. There must be something
in the Christian life if it can claim the loyalty of such a man as that.’ Fellows, if you hear
Dr. Thompson once, you will hear him every time he is there.” Such expressions of satisfaction over the selection of
Dr. Thompson for the series have come in from numbers of alumni and faculty members who are closely acquainted with
him. CAMPUS USA VITED TO Today and Joseph S. B THE CURRENT STYLES IN CLOTHES, HATS, SHOES AND HABERDASHERY FOR
LOUNGE, SPORTS AND GE WILL BE EXHIBITED IN YOUR TOWN ON DATE GIVEN BELOW. YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND.
At Miss Minnie Scofield’s Tomorrow FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK JACKSON BOULEVARD, CHICAGO BRICKS DE LUXE ICE CREAM at STUDENT STORE
CONES MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM CO. CUPS look back upon his work with unalloyed satisfaction.” “U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They
Get There” Old Lady—“Could I get something for my throat?” Drug Clerk—“Cigarette counter right across the aisle, madam.” Cars to
Rent Special Rates for Long Trips Pretty Nurse—“Every time I take the patient's pulse it beats faster. What shall I
do?” HENDERSON AUTO CO. DAVIDSON, N. C. CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE Doctor—“Blindfold him.” S & W Cafeterias are catering to you ATLANTA
ASHEVILLE RALEIGH Every man wants his stationery to be distinctive, and we are prepared to give you a most attractive
job at a most reasonable price. Best rates on job work will be quoted to campus organizations for any kind
of printing. Samples of printed stationery and of printed and engraved personal cards are on display in 20 Rumple. AUBREY
BROWN, Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
