THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1928

New Method Used | New Student Club

JEWELRY RETURNED BY MYSTERIOUS MARAUDER

Unable to stand the pangs of conscience which had haunted him for three weeks, an unknown thief and marauder on
March 12th returned $2,000 worth of fraternity jewelry, which he had stolen here on February 22nd from J. F. Hundley,
traveling representative of a nationally-known jewelry manufacturing firm. Detectives who have been at work on the case for the past
three weeks were unable to explain the sudden return of the stolen property which they had been unable to locate.

J. F. Hundley, jewelry salesman, visited Davidson College on February 22nd with an elaborate display of fraternity pins, rings, watch
chains, and novelties. Throughout the day and on into the evening he visited the several fraternity houses on the local
campus, soliciting orders for his wares. After a busy day, he retired to the chapter house of the Kappa Sigma
Fraternity, of which he is a member. It was after midnight before he fell asleep, his jewelry packed away in
leather cases in a corner of the living room on the floor beneath.

Sometime between midnight and morning the house was entered, the jewelry cases opened, and their contents spread about the floor
in order to enable the thief to more carefully collect those items which met his fancy. After what must have
been an exhaustive inspection of the cases, $2,000 worth of the more popular designs were removed by the thief. Before
leaving, the marauder stopped to cut up an expensive divan and otherwise damage the furnishings of the house. Detectives who
were employed to locate the thief found no clue as to his identity.

The Davidson students, anxious to clear the college of all complicity in the theft, conducted a painstaking and detailed investigation
into the robbery. The Student Council met throughout one entire day only to convince itself that the thief was an
outsider and not a member of the local student body.

Detectives were ready to give up in despair last Monday morning, when one of the members of the Kappa Sigma
Fraternity found a canvas sack, containing the jewelry, on the porch of the chapter house. Mr. Hundley, advised of the
return of his property, made a hurried trip to Davidson, and declared that the jewelry was intact. Not a single
item was missing.

M. A. Abernethy, Southern Railway master at Davidson, declares that on the morning following the theft, two unidentified white men
requested him to express a suitcase for them to Fort Mill, S.C. The suitcase being in bad repair, however, Mr.
Abernethy refused to accept the parcel unless securely tied with a heavy string. The young men later in the morning
called to tell him that they had been unable to locate a suitable string and that they would just carry
the suitcase along with them. One of these men gave the name of “Bryant,” and is said to fit the
description of the young man now being held in Charlotte, charged with having been an accomplice in a previous robbery
in Charlotte, in which Mr. Hundley suffered a loss of approximately $1,000 worth of jewelry similar to that taken from
him at Davidson. However, no arrests have been made.

By Minn. College

Revision of the curriculum to permit more freedom of study has been announced at Hamline College by President Alfred F.
Hughes. Majors and minors have been abolished, first and last two years of work have been separated, and requirements reduced
in number. The only demand is for 36 hours of concentrated study. After caring for the demanded 36 hours, the
student may browse as he pleases, or he may limit his work to one field. Provision will be made for
granting the exceptional student research facilities if he is able to carry his work beyond the limits of courses offered.

New York, N. Y. (By New Student Service)—Detailed statements of travel arrangements and probable itineraries of the Upton Close-New Student
tour of the Orient, to be held next summer, have been sent to persons already in the party. Applications for
membership in the group, which will be limited to one hundred, must be made at once. The adventure to the
Orient, the first of its kind at student rates, is being sponsored by Upton Close (Josef Washington Hall), noted writer
on Asiatic affairs, and The New Student. Mr. Close will personally conduct the travelers. Students and faculty members are eligible.
One variation from the earlier plans is the decision to include women in the party. Applications may be sent to
The New Student, and detailed information on the summer program will be forwarded.

F. B. Washam Wildcat Cafe

AT LEADING COLLEGE

Another leading tobacconist in Davidson, N. C. says:

"For some time past... OLD GOLDS have been my fastest-growing cigarette. Sales have gone up steadily month after month, and
there doesn’t seem to be any let-up in this new cigarette’s popularity."

For a most refreshing change: "Follow your friends and smoke this smoother and better cigarette"

P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

Old Gold
