INFLUENCE is to be measured not by the extent of surface it covers, but by its kind.—Wm. E. Channing.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

BACK THE “Y”

HEAR “TOLLY” THOMPSON

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 18, 1928 No. 5

COURT ANNOUNCES NEW REGULATIONS FOR FRESH CLASS

Freshmen Not Allowed in Post Office Until After Nine A. M.

CAMPUSING, NEW PENALTY

Rule Regarding Freshmen Leaving Chapel After Upper-Classmen Will be Strictly Enforced

At a meeting of the Court of Control recently it was shown that the freshmen regulators will be more strict. New regulations were added to the fresh card and rules were expressed more definitely. Owing to the large crowds entering the post office immediately after chapel in the morning, the court saw fit to order the freshmen to extend their time when they should stay out of the office. The previous regulation read as follows: “Freshmen shall not enter post office after 8:10 a.m. until last bell for chapel at 8:35 a.m.” The time limits were changed by the court to read 8:00 a.m. until 9:00 a.m. This, it is thought, will prevent the congestion in the post office after chapel.

The judge of the Court of Control, Raymond Lake, announced in chapel that all freshmen should remain in their seats until all upper-classmen had cleared the room. This, he said, was just a word of warning before action was taken by the court. There is a rule on the fresh card regarding this but the freshmen have not adhered to it very well.

Two freshmen have received sentences from the court thus far. One of these sentences led to the making of severe rules concerning the wearing of a yellow cap. The court has decreed that, when a freshman is required to wear a yellow cap, he is automatically campused. This campus requires the freshman to be in the bounds of the college grounds at all times during his period of sentence and allows him only 30 minutes at each meal time off the grounds. The freshman wearing the cap is not allowed to go to the post office, drug store or any other places, other than direct to his respective boarding house and return.

CAPTAIN PRITCHETT CONDUCTS VESPER SERVICES SUNDAY

In the Y. M. C. A. vesper of the year conducted by local men, Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, athletic director of the college, spoke on the life of the Apostle Paul, whom he characterized as a great athlete. By way of introduction Capt. Pritchett reconciled his position in speaking religiously to a group of men who were apparently bent on the achievement of spiritual lives. He stated that it would have been difficult for him to have made such a talk if it were not for one thought which had come to him some years ago. In coaching track Capt. Pritchett said he did not expect to be able to vault as high as the man whom he trained; to run as fast as the sprinter he coached; or to have the endurance of the long-distance runner to whom he taught the principles of athletic training. Capt. Pritchett adopted this thought to his position in speaking at the vespers. He declared that he did not expect to be able to attain the depth of spiritual life as some of those to whom he was speaking.

Paul was one of the greatest men in history among several different lines, said Capt. Pritchett in his opening remarks on Paul. He continued with the assertion that Paul was a great athlete. Though a cripple of small stature, he had that spirit, that will and vivacity which would not allow defeat. At this point Captain Pritchett summoned modern athletics to testify to the fact that the athlete does not necessarily have to have great physical qualities.

Captain Pritchett, in showing that Paul had the spirit of an athlete, quoted verse after verse in which Paul used the language of the athlete of his day figuratively and literally. In conclusion, he stated that life is not a sprint but is a marathon; and quoted the famous words of Paul: “Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honorable, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever (Continued on page 3)

First Issue of Chameleon Pronounced Good

Davidson College Magazine Will Follow Same General Policies of Past

With the advent of the first issue of the Chameleon, the campus critic again makes his annual debut. In the opinion of the reviewer, this first issue, as a whole, is superior to the past years. As stated by McQueen in his editorial, the present staff has not sought to make any radical changes in the general policy of the Chameleon, but will follow the general policies of the past staff. On the other hand, the numbers presented in this first issue display, with the exception of Boggess’ “This Violin,” published in last year’s first issue, a superior talent and ability to those numbers in last year's magazine.

In the field of fiction “The Star of Death” has rightly been chosen to be the first number of this issue. McCutchan was wise enough to limit his field of writing to one with which he was thoroughly familiar, which statement may not be made so justifiably of the author of “Jungle Fever.” Indeed, the “Star of Death” shows the author to possess a more complete knowledge of his subject matter than he possesses ability to sustain the action of the plot. After introducing and developing a probable and material plot, it comes as quite a shock to have the hero meet his demise in such a quaint old oriental manner as is pictured. Indeed, to the material mind of the Occidental, the sudden change from the material to the fantastic in narrating the death of Peterson may seem improbable if not impossible. On the other hand, McCutchan, writing of a field supposed to be familiar to many, or at least to Chameleon readers, shows very good descriptive powers.

The number of next merit, in the opinion of the reviewer, is that written by J. G. Johnson. In this number Johnson turns burlesque in his presentation of the average Davidson student's credo. It would be an impossibility to compose a credo applicable entirely to any group of persons as large as is Davidson. The other enumerated thoughts of Johnson are very clever, but are, for the most part, pointed truths.

The rest of the prose in this issue is, in the opinion of the critic, not of an inferior quality to that already mentioned. McQueen's first story, “His Period of Training,” takes an old plot, dresses it in modern clothes, and presents a very readable story. The critic does not think that McQueen's prose is nearly as ably written as is his poetry.

“Tungle Fever,” written by the same author, is reminiscent of the picture “Show Down,” starring George Bancroft. The general style of writing is better in the second story though a trifle obscure in places. The introduction of the sole new feature of the story, namely the mental derangement of the principal character, is a good feature.

Jarratt, a newcomer to the Chameleon, brings with him a manner of writing, pleasing and rather individual for a Davidson College Magazine writer. Although the diction, when in reference to the author himself, could be much better even though he is a college student; the sketch as a whole presents a very acceptable appearance. And Jarratt, in following the general style of several masters of note whom he mentions—Anderson, Huxley, Dreiser, Hemingway, and others—has succeeded as well as most college writers today.

“In Point of Fact,” by Ozymandias; in this short fable, the writer presents a pleasing fantasy in a serious manner, treating his absurdities as facts of the first water. “In Point of Fact” may be criticized on the ground that it is too absurd for publication, and that its worth lies in the imagination it shows, as resulting from the doubtful influence of Xenophon.

The ardent lover of nature as personified in the writings presented by J. R. Covington, embodies the sentiment now rare in the colleges today: an open and avowed lover of nature. The rather Druid-like author appears to have made one outstanding error. The diary covering a period of practically a whole school year, has very little or no change of thought or feeling throughout the year. Another important factor in regard to the diary submitted by Covington, is the improbability that it was found, as most diaries are, below the literary level of the author who asserts it was his.

The poetry section, in the opinion of the reviewer, is the sole tale of superior quality to the prose. Frank Hall continues to contribute from his prolific (Continued on page 3)

Dr. Thompson Is Characterized By Personal Charm

Former Director of Camp Carolina

ALUMNI PRAISE HIM

Charles McRae, Former President of “Y” Sends Message to Student Body

Interesting insights into the magnetic personality of Dr. “Tolly” Thompson, who is to conduct the fall series of consecration services of the Y. M. C. A. here Sunday, have reached Davidson from many sources during the past week. The secret of his warm friendships in summer and military camps, and of his peculiar appeal to college men, lies in the congenial fellowship he is able to offer each one of them. Dr. Thompson is more than a religious leader, he is a most able friend, companion, whom men would like to know because of his personal attraction.

Davidson, working with young men in the Union Theological Seminary, where he is in contact with every member of the student body. Charles McRae, president of the Y. M. C. A.During the winter months, he is busy at Union. Charles McRae, David, sends the following message: "Men, one student last year, believe that the greatest powers in the universe is personality, and I’m sure Dr. Thompson has the greatest human personality I've ever come in contact with. He has been and is being released by the Supreme Person, Jesus Christ, the liberator of human powers. May God's blessing be upon you all.”

Dr. Thompson was always seen playing with and talking to boys in the camp. He enjoyed swimming with them as much as he did talking to them from the Scriptures. Dr. Thompson visited many camps during the summer months, and his qualities of virile manhood have made a deep impression. In coming to Davidson to conduct this series of services, Dr. Thompson hopes to use his talks from the pulpit as a means of getting to talk to the boys individually. These personal interviews will be a large and very important part of his work here.

Harry Goodykoontz, captain of the Wildcat track team in 1926-27, gave a vivid impression of Dr. Thompson when he wrote, "Dr. Tolly is the kind of man who speaks to the student body."

(Continued on page 4)

Daniels And Murrill Will Speak At Press Meeting

Many College Representatives Expected to Convene on Davidson Campus

Mr. Hugh Murrill, of the Charlotte Printing Company, and Mr. Clemson J. Daniels, of Clemson College, have been secured as speakers at the fall convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, which is to be held in Davidson on November 1, 2, and 3. Mr. Daniels was present at Davidson three years ago as a speaker, and while here created an excellent impression. His services are very much in demand both as a humorist and as a very instructive speaker. He is a professor of English at Clemson College and is also the head of the Liberal Arts department of that college. Mr. Daniels will speak at the opening banquet of the convention, which is to be held on Thursday night in the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel, sponsored by the Charlotte Engraving Co.

As the vice-president and general manager of the Queen City Printing and Engraving Company, Mr. Murrill has established a name for himself as one of Charlotte’s most promising younger business men. He will address the convention Friday morning after Mr. Daniels’ speech at the opening banquet.

(Continued on page 3)

NEW DESIGN BLAZERS ADOPTED BY SENIORS

The Senior insignia committee, appointed by M. T. Gilmour, president of the class, selected the official blazer design last week. According to the committee, chaired by Causey, the blazer will have a blue shield with a “D” and ’29 thereon, worn on the pocket under the lapel. This type of blazer is known as the Oxford-Cambridge design and was selected as the best of the many possible types. This shield was chosen by the committee from two sketches submitted by Glenn Fry.

This blazer will be worn as the official garb of the Senior class and will distinguish them from the undergraduates. Every year, some distinguishing mark is chosen by the class. Last year, a red and black blazer was chosen, and it proved so popular that it was decided to use them again this year. The blazers will be ordered through the Students’ Store. All seniors are urged to put in their reservations as soon as possible so that the order may be sent off quickly. An initial deposit of $2.00 is required when the order is placed. This will be applied as part payment of the total cost of the blazer, $6.75. The blazer will be gray with blue trimmings.

Student Body Members Organize Club Favoring Democratic Candidates

PLANS FORMULATED FOR SPANISH CLUB

New Members Will Be Bid and Initiated Within a Month

There have already been several meetings of the Spanish Club, composed of men desirous of further study in Spanish literature, history, and art. At present, the club has a membership of only about a dozen men, as there was no spring initiation last year. New members will be bid and taken in within a month, and from the prospective material, those who are proficient in the subject and qualified to join will be chosen.

Professor Crowe, one of the faculty members backing this club, is not here this year. At present, he is teaching at New York University and taking graduate work at Columbia University. Professor Goldiere, another faculty member, is back and will lend his support. He spent the past year studying at Yale. Lieutenant Beckett is one of the new faculty members.

At a recent meeting, the officers for this year were elected. The following men were chosen: President, W. Francis Ghigo; vice-president, J. L. Rice; secretary and treasurer, J. L. Brown. The president has made no definite announcement as to the usual Spanish debates, but plans will be published at a later date. Plans for the Spanish Night, a feature of the year, will also be forthcoming later.

AL SMITH SPECIAL MET BY STUDENTS

Sponsored by members of the student body, a plan was adopted and put to work Thursday night to stop the Brown Derby Special and demand an impromptu appearance of Al Smith, the presidential candidate, as it passed from Charlotte to Statesville. Due to the ignorance or meanness of two students, the bell which was to be the signal for all to appear at the depot was tolled 40 minutes too soon. The entire student body was aroused from slumber and study to greet the famous Democratic nominee. Due to the mistake, 600 hours, amounting to 12½ days, were wasted. The crowd quickly assembled and began the wait of one hour and 45 minutes. The Asbestos mill furnished an excellent means for many to pass the time and also learn of the products of this progressive city.

Finally, the train rounded the curve at exactly 12:15 o'clock. It was warmly greeted by flares and bonfires as it slowed down. Cheer after cheer went up from the multitude, and all expectantly waited for Al to appear. But in spite of red lanterns and railroad flares, the train did not stop, nor did Mr. Smith show himself once.

SCOTT IS PROMOTED BY WAR DEPARTMENT

News has been received recently at the R.O.T.C. headquarters of Davidson that Major William R. Scott, Professor of Military Science and Tactics, has been promoted to the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel in the United States Army. Major Scott's promotion has been rumored for some time here, but it has only been announced authoritatively from general headquarters in Washington, D.C., recently.

Lieutenant-Colonel Scott came to Davidson to be the new head of the war department here this year, taking the place vacated by Capt. R. D. Daugherity last year. Graduating from West Point in 1904, Lieut.-Col. Scott served in the regular army and rose rapidly during the war from the grade of lieutenant to that which he now holds. At the end of the war, however, he was reduced to the rank of major during that period when there was a great shifting of officers’ ratings. At the end of the war, he went to the Staff and Command School for officers, situated in Kansas, finishing only last year when he came to Davidson.

(Continued on page 6)

FOOTBALL PROGRAM FOR GRID PATRONS COMPLETE

BOOKLET Program, Complete for Season, is Edited by Alumni Secretary

An attractive football program for 1928, edited by Ernest Milton, has made its appearance. This is the first official program published by the Athletic Association, and every effort has been made to ensure its completeness in detail.

The program is in the form of an eight-page booklet with an attractively colored cover, and a Wildcat combination on the front. Within the booklet are pictures of the Davidson coaches, two members of the Davidson squad, and prominent members of the N.C. State, Wake Forest, and Carolina teams. The editor regrets that he was unable to secure pictures of members of the Wofford eleven. Also, a complete history of past scores of Davidson with Carolina, N.C. State, Wake Forest, Wofford, and Elon is contained in the program, along with a summary of the more important penalties.

For those interested in following the ball with a pencil, there is a diagram of the field on the inside of the cover page, and space for recording first downs and the score by quarters. On the inside of the back cover are printed “O, Davidson,” “College Ties,” and the yells used regularly at the football games. The booklet is unusually complete, and much credit is due to the editor for its attractive appearance.