October 4, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

EVERY WILDCAT FIGHTING ELON!

CAT TRAX AS THEY FOLLOW THE RED AND BLACK
By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Right here, may we pay tribute to the new Wildcat captain, Arthur Baker. His election comes after two years of
hard and conscientious work on the gridiron, and no Wildcat ever fought harder than good “Barney-O.” May success crown him
and his team with steady victory and luck.

Did somebody say that the Wildcats would be easy meat for a big team? We wonder what the sport world
is thinking after seeing them fight Clemson to a standstill, finally losing the contest by the only pass which the
Tigers completed during the entire scrap. Don’t ever think that the boys from Monk Younger’s school didn’t achieve a great
feat last Saturday. They were doped to lose by three or four touchdowns. Thus read dispatches from the newspapers: “The
Davidson Wildcats fought gamely and determinedly to hold the powerful Clemson players in check.” “Their staunch stand within the shadow
of the goal posts and the stamina with which they stood the hammering of Clemson’s eleven strong men, made the
hearts of sympathetic Clemson fans go out to the fighting players from their sister state.” The South Carolinian’s line was
some 20 pounds per man heavier than “the thin red line.” Think that over. It seems like old times when
the ’Cats buck these big lines, because it is a fact that they seldom hit one of their own weight.
Clemson, by the way, is generally conceded the best chance to cop the title down in the Palmetto State.

Glory to the entire Wildcat line, particularly to those “Tough Twins,” David and Brock, and more power to Samuel Black
and Richard Flinn for their stalwart defense back of the forward wall.

The thing that tickles us about the game Saturday is that none of the home men were injured to amount
to anything. We will just have to get optimistic now and predict three straight wins—Elon, Wofford, and Citadel, with the
Charleston Cadets furnishing by far the strongest opposition.

Captain Baker will lead his troopers against the Fighting Christians from Elon College this weekend, and after hearing that State
lowered their sails to the tune of 57-0, we shall risk Coach Monk's ire by hoping for at least a
touchdown victory. “And with luck,” as Mr. Monk says, “we might beat them a little more.” Little Zach Walker proved
to be Elon’s chief threat last year, and he was truly a streak on the field. Better watch that lad
or he'll be pulling some money-shine that might not be so funny to Davidson men.

At last, Alumni of U. N. C. should be thoroughly satisfied with their opening game. On the other hand, Wake
Forest might feel a little hurt, and the rest of the state teams might feel a little scared of an
offense that can roll up 65 points in 60 minutes of play. Wonder if they can keep it up? We
don't think so. At least, Davidson men feel no fear of a beating like that.

Just a Little Dope
Who and Where Davidson’s Opponents Play Saturday
Davidson vs. Elon at Davidson.
Clemson vs. Auburn at Auburn.
Wofford vs. Erskine at Spartanburg.
Citadel vs. Stetson at Charleston.
Wake Forest vs. Presbyterian at Asheville.
V. M. I. vs. Georgia Tech at Atlanta.
N. C. State vs. Washington and Lee at Lexington.
North Carolina vs. Maryland at College Park.
Duke vs. South Dakota at Durham.

How Davidson’s Opponents Came Out Last Saturday
Davidson, 0; Clemson, 6.
Guilford, 19; Campbell, 0.
N. C. State, 57; Elon, 0.
Wofford, 7; High Point, 0.
North Carolina, 65; Wake Forest, 0.
Furman, 6; Duke, 0.
V. M. I., 6; Richmond, 6.

Or Buying Groceries
“What shall I do to keep from falling in love?”
“Try pricing apartments.” — Montreal Star.

ELON INVADES LAIR OF THE WILDCATS ON NEXT SATURDAY
Younger’s Men Aim for Victory as Fighting Christians Make Annual Pilgrimage Here

THIRD GAME
Both Teams Are Light and Fast — Backfields Expected to Match Speed — Crowd to View Scrap

Coach Monk's gridders will take on the Fighting Christians from Elon College at 3:00 o'clock Saturday afternoon on Richardson Field.
In spite of Elon's crushing defeat by State and Davidson's great stand against the strong Clemson team, the game will
be a good one. Both teams are light and fast. Elon averages 158 pounds, slightly heavier than Davidson if injured
regulars are ready to play. Elon will worry Davidson considerably with Walker, brilliant field general, and Williams, fast fullback. Both
men are fast and have made excellent gridiron records. As for Davidson, any combination of an octet of pony backs
is likely to be used, with frequent substitutions.

After the great battle in Clemson, the Wildcats were worked hard with stiff scrimmages Monday afternoon and on through the
week. Cooler weather and hard work gave the team plenty of pep and it ran through plays with a vim.
From watching afternoon practice, it seems that the first team is spending the greater part of its afternoons running signals,
and working off the rough edges of the attack. The week's practice shows that Monk and Tex are getting ready
to shoot the works at Elon in order to put the game in the win column.

Probable line-ups for both teams follow:
Elon Position Davidson
Goss Left End Brock
Watson Left Tackle Harper
Holt (C) Left Guard Mason
Merritt Center Smith
Stevenson Right Guard Baker
LeZotte Right Tackle David
Williams Right End Black
Latham Right Halfback McMillan
Walker Quarterback

Senior Class Adopts Blazer Unanimously
After brief discussion Monday morning the Senior class unanimously adopted the blazer as the piece of clothing that would distinguish
them from the underclassmen during the present year. A committee has been appointed by Monroe, Senior class president, to handle
the details.The class last wore red and black striped blazers. Gilmour, president of the class, was to select and make
suggestions as to the color and the blazers to be worn. Individual garments will then be procurable by ordering through
the class representative.

On the order of services of All Souls Universalist Church, Brooklyn, N.Y., for Sunday, March 23, these two items appear
together:
The Sermon — “Thou Shalt Not Steal.”
Offertory — “Steal Away” (Negro Spiritual).
— The Christian Leader (Boston).

Charles VII of France organized the standing army in Western Europe. It had nine thousand men. They were astounded lest
that overpowering strength prove too much. Napoleon would have laughed at a force of less than a hundred thousand men.
And today, the United States refuses to sign a treaty with France and Great Britain condemning light cruisers, because they
are especially fitted to the use of the United States. Nations have never outgrown their distrust of a stronger power
on land or sea.

OAK RIDGE CADETS MEET WILDKITTENS FRIDAY IN OPENER
Interest High as Freshmen Approach Opening Game With Soldiers
WILDCAT CAPTAIN KITTENS ON EDGE
Miles Will Attempt to Avenge 11-0 Defeat Last Year—Cadets Heavy But Fast

Tomorrow afternoon will see the new edition of the Davidson Wildkittens swing into action for the first time. Weeks of
practice have served to put the charges of Coach Buck Miles in prime shape, and when the gong sounds at
3:00 o'clock they will be more than anxious to go. As was the case last fall, the Cadets from Oak
Ridge Military Academy, coached by Jack Caldwell, former star of Duke University, are expected to bring a snappy and well-trained
eleven. The Soldiers will probably arrive here Friday night, thus reaping the benefit of a full night’s rest before their
game.

WILDCATS CHOOSE BAKER AS CAPTAIN
At a meeting of the football letter men of Davidson College, last Thursday, September 27, Arthur W. Baker was elected
to captain the football eleven for the 1928-29 season. Baker hails from Stony Point, N.C. He entered Davidson with the
class of '29, and for the past two seasons has been one of the outstanding stars of the team. His
position in the line has always been that of tackle. At the end of the football season last year, he
was rewarded for his labors by being elected to the wearers of the “D.” On the campus and in the
classroom, Baker has always held a position of respect and esteem among his fellow students, and on the football field,
he is known as one who exerts his utmost to uphold the honor of Davidson. His teammates feel that in
honoring him with this position, they have filled the captaincy in a worthy manner.

The first-year men have many potential stars in their ranks, but the team as a unit is an untried quantity,
and their showings will be watched with intense interest on the part of all students. Oak Ridge has lost several
of her outstanding stars of a year ago, but reports indicate that a heavy line and fast set of backs
will be on hand to hinder Miles’ men. Last year, the Kittens bowed in defeat to these same Cadets by
the score of 11-0.

JAZZ AND SYMPHONY
(Continued from page 1)
A. J. Thompson, clarinet; L. L. Barr, flute; C. E. Brown, cello; W. E. Phifer, trombone; B. H. O. Smith,
trumpet; P. B. Frye, piano; and O. Gibson, tuba, are being considered probable members of the Symphony Orchestra.

PAT CRAWFORD WITH TOLEDO
Pat Crawford, well-known Davidson alumnus of the class of '23, has been going great in the ranks of organized baseball.
Bought by the New York Giants from Greenville, of the South Atlantic League, Crawford found the pace a little too
fast in an infield composed of Lindstrom, Jackson, Cohen, and Terry, so the Giants farmed him out to the Toledo
club of the American Association. Playing first base, Crawford has consistently held a place among the leading swatsmiths of the
association. His batting average on September 17 was .347, fifth highest in the entire league. His fielding has been of
the highest order. Crawford will probably be given another tryout by the “Little Napoleon” next spring, and the chances are
very much in favor of his staying in the “big company” for good this time.

Sunday School Teacher (giving moral lesson to class)—“And what qualities should you ask God to give you as you grow
up? Truth, what else?”
Wise Child—“Honesty, and sales resistance.”

TOBACCO TRUTHS
DAVIDSON—An Honor College
CHESTERFIELDS—An Honor Cigarette
Yours, CHESTERFIELD BILL.

DE LUXE ICE CREAM at STUDENT STORE
BRICKS CONES CUPS
MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM CO.

Old Gold hits a homer in Blindfold cigarette test
“Yes, I am well over 21...so I could see no reason why I shouldn’t make the blindfold test. As I
tried the four leading cigarettes I kept this ‘box score’ on the results:
No. 1 - out at first
No. 2 - this one ‘fanned’ out on a pop fly
No. 3 - a home run hit! (OLD GOLD)
“OLD GOLD’S mildness and smoothness marked it ‘right off the bat’ as the best.”

Gobs, Woe
On a non-stop flight to the bleachers!... Why do they choose OLD GOLD... What is this superiority that wins so
many famous people? It’s simply honey-like smoothness... the new and delightful quality that OLD GOLD has added to cigarettes. And
it comes from the heart-leaves of the tobacco plant... the finest tobacco that grows. That’s why you can pick OLD
GOLDS even in the dark.

A homer for Babe Ruth
The idol of the baseball world... ‘The King of Swat’ BABE RUTH... making the test in the dressing room at
the Yankee Stadium. He was asked to smoke each of the four leading brands, clearing his taste with black coffee
between smokes. Only one question was asked: ‘Which one do you like best?’

Made from the heart-leaves of the tobacco plant
SMOOTHER AND BETTER—“NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD”
