November 29, 1928.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Miss Ellenwood, Hostess

On Tuesday night of last week, Miss Ellenwood and Mr. and Mrs. Hurd entertained jointly the Thelemite Club at Miss Ellenwood’s home on Main Street. A delightful program was given for those present. Mrs. H. M. Moffett and Prof. E. J. Cullum sang a group of old English folk songs, accompanied at the piano by Miss Hattie Thompson. Dr. S. C. Lyon gave a scientific lecture, taking as his subject, “Discoveries.”

The program was closed by a number of instrumental pieces by an instrumental trio, consisting of violin, ‘cello, and piano, and a violin duo consisting respectively of R. B. Orr, C. E. Brown, P. B. Fry, and C. C. Orr, Jr., R. B. Orr. Refreshments, consisting of an ice-cream course and attractive cakes, were served by Misses Maline Lyon and Kathleen Hurd.

Young Vowles Home

Richard Vowles, son of Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Vowles, who underwent an appendicitis operation at a Statesville hospital on Friday, November 16, is doing nicely and came home Tuesday, November 27.

Sub Rosa

The Sub Rosa Club, not a college organization, held its initial meeting Friday evening. At this time plans for the year were discussed and the program outlined. The following officers were elected: Miss Letitia Currie, president, Miss Eva Wiseman, vice-president, Miss Mary Ardrey Stough, secretary-treasurer.

Thirteen Wildcats Play Last Game On Thursday

When the Wildcats trot out on the field Thursday, with them will go thirteen men who for the last time will signal that the Wildcats are there and ready to fight. This number includes four backfield men, two centers, and seven tackles and guards. The backfield men are: Kell, Flinn, Covington, and Black. The linemen are: Middleton, and Archie, tackle, Baker, tackle, Leftwich, tackle, Harper, guard, R. McConnell, center, Kerr, center, Hill, guard, Smith, guard.

All of these are not regulars, but all have given their best upon the practice field and upon the gridiron when the opportunity is given them. Nor is it always the regulars that make the team, it is the ones that go out each day in order that the varsity may run over them. Whatever is said, the least that can be said is that thirteen true Wildcats are lost to the football team when the game Thursday is over.

Seniors Who Play Last Time Thursday

DAN LEFTWICH

SAM BLACK

BILL ARCHIE

SAM SMITH

BOB KELL

CAPTAIN BAKER

DRUGS SODA

Make Our Store Your Store

Christmas Goods Now On Display

Prescriptions Sundries

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

COLONIAL INN
Davidson, N. C.
Under Management of Registered Dietitian
HAVE WE SERVED YOU?

STOP!

From the Show at

WILDCAT CAFE

DAVIDSON, N. C.

HOME COOKED FOOD
OPEN TILL 11 P. M.

My, you need a haircut. Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real College haircut. He has three real barbers.

NORTON BROS.
in Post Office block—

Three first-class workmen

Stationery

Rooter and embossed

Best Quality and Prices

ANY TYPE OF PRINTING

Aubrey Brown
Representing

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

A leading bridge expert once said, “The aces and kings play themselves; it’s the little spots that make games.”

What's true in bridge seems equally true in the cigarette business. Aces to deuces, spades to clubs—from the very first deal, Chesterfield made every card good!

No risky finesses, no sharp double squeezes—Chesterfield rose to world-wide popularity by straight honest selling with a straight honest product—an outstanding success in cigarette history.

So Chesterfield can bid high! Tobacco quality, perfect blending, purity, mildness, natural sweetness—with a hand like that, Chesterfield can redouble your smoking pleasure...and today, next month, next year, keep right on fulfilling the contract.

CHESTERFIELD

MILD enough for anybody...and yet...THEY SATISFY

LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.