THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1928

DAVIDSON ALUMNI IN FIVE STATES HOLD MEETINGS

Enthusiasm Marks Gatherings as Alumni Pledge Renewed Loyalty To College

A. Hodges, ’79, prominent and beloved physician of Richmond, Va., delivered the main address, choosing as a theme for his
talk the subject, “Living In Your Own Shade.” Commanding the serious thought and attention of the entire body of Davidson
alumni who heard his remarks, Dr. Hodges made an eloquent plea for a more universal spirit of service among the
educated classes.

OLDEST ALUMNUS

Fifty-Five Alumni Attend Richmond Meeting—Other Large Crowds

Manifesting extraordinary interest in the progress and affairs of their alma mater, more than 150 Davidson alumni, scattered throughout five
northern and eastern states, attended six local association meetings held under the direction of the general alumni office during the
past week. Meetings were held at Richmond, Va.; Staunton, Va.; Washington, D. C.; Baltimore, Md.; Philadelphia, Pa., and New York
City, with large attendances at each. Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, and Harllee Branch, Jr., assistant alumni secretary, attended these meetings
for the purpose of presenting data on the progress of the college and the expansion of alumni work.

Richmond Meeting

At Richmond, Va., on Tuesday evening, March 6th, 55 Davidson alumni assembled in the banquet hall of the Presbyterian Assembly’s
Training School, where a delightful dinner, served by young ladies of the school, was enjoyed. More than 30 of the
alumni present at this meeting were students of the Union Theological Seminary. Dr. Ben R. Lacy, '06, presided as toastmaster.
Dr. J. urged a co-ordination of college and university alumni for the safeguarding of American ideals and principles. This was
followed by brief talks by each of the two secretaries from the alumni office. Officers elected for the Richmond association
included: Rev. W. E. Hill, ’00, president; Mr. John Van Landingham, ’06, vice-president, and Dr. O. E. Buckholtz, ’09, secretary-treasurer.
The dinner was arranged under the supervision of Dr. W. L. Lingle, '92, assisted by W. A. Christian, ’27. Place-cards
were designed and prepared by Miss Rosa Fazekas, a student at the Training School. Music was rendered by the Union
Theological Seminary quartet, and members of the Training School student body who reside in North Carolina.

At Washington

More than 29 alumni attended the meeting in Washington, Thursday, March 9th, which was held at the University Club, where
an elaborate dinner was served. R. A. Marshall, ’09, presided over the dinner-meeting, and introduced the speakers. Congressman W. F.
Stevenson, ’85, was honor guest and principal speaker. Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, followed Congressman Stevenson with a brief talk on
the college and the alumni work. Present at the Washington meeting were two former students now residing in Alexandria, Va.,
three from Woodberry Forest, Va., and one from Rockville, Md. Officers elected were: R. S. Marshall, '09, president; J. E.
Mason, ’82, vice-president, and J. A. Thames, ’18, secretary-treasurer. The dinner was arranged through the efforts of Mr. Thames.

Staunton Group

At Staunton, Va., on the same evening, a meeting of unusual dignity and extraordinary interest was held with 16 Davidson
alumni, residing in several cities along the Shenandoah Valley, present. Of unusual interest was the presence of Dr. Henry Louis
Smith, former president of Davidson College and now head of Washington and Lee University, and Rev. I. Conder, '59, oldest
living Davidson College matriculate. Brief addresses were made by Dr. Smith and Rev. Mr. Conder, the latter having come miles
from McGaheysville, Va., to attend his first Davidson meeting since leaving the college in 1856. Rev. Mr. Conder expressed the
hope that he would be able to attend the commencement alumni reunions in May, for the purpose of renewing acquaintanceships
with Rev. G. L. Petrie, oldest living alumnus of the college, and J. J. Stringfellow, oldest living graduate. These three
men were college mates during the days before the Civil War. Election of officers resulted in the selection of the
following officials: Dr. H. S. Turner, ’13, president; Capt. J. R. Earnest, '25, vice-president, and Rev. J. L. McBryde, '18,
secretary-treasurer. Dinner was served in the dining room of the First Presbyterian church, with Dr. A. M. Frazer, '76, presiding.
Rev. Locke White was in charge of arrangements.

Then Baltimore

More than 29 alumni of Davidson College residing in Baltimore attended the buffet supper and meeting which was held at
the Baltimore Club, Friday, March 10th, with Rev. T. P. Sprunt, '03, as host. Officers elected by the Baltimore association
included:were: Dr. T. P. Sprunt, '03, president; Rev. R. L. Riddle, '11, vice-president, and G. D. Rogers, '25, secretary-treasurer. A
motion, providing for extending an invitation to Dr. W. J. Martin, president, or other members of the college faculty and
administrative departments, to visit the Baltimore association, was unanimously adopted. By motion adopted at the Washington meeting, the Baltimore association
was invited to meet in joint session with the Washington association. The invitation was tentatively accepted by the Baltimore group,
a date of the joint meeting to be set later.

Philadelphia Next
Fourteen alumni, residing in Philadelphia and nearby cities, were present at the Philadelphia meeting, Saturday, March 11th. No effort was
made to organize a local association in that city since a large number of the Davidson alumni are only temporary
residents of the city. Two alumni from Haverford and one from Germantown were present at the meeting, which was held
at Kugler’s Restaurant, following a delightful dinner. Dr. W. B. Jennings, '90, of Germantown, was one of the principal speakers.

New York Also
The New York Alumni Association, already organized, held its regular semi-annual meeting at the Advertising Club, 23 Park Avenue, on
Tuesday evening. A large number of Davidson alumni in and near New York City attended what is said to be
one of the most enthusiastic meetings ever held by the New York association.

An elaborate celebration, commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the pastorate of Dr. George Laurens Petrie, '59, in the Presbyterian church
of Charlottesville, Va., is reported in a current issue of the Presbyterian of the South. Dr. Petrie is Davidson’s oldest
living matriculate.

Rev. Donald W. Richardson, D.D., '02, a returned missionary from war-torn China, addressed members of the First and Second Presbyterian
churches of Salisbury, and the First church of Mooresville recently, relating his experiences in the Orient.

Warren M. Cox, '24, who went to Shanghai, China, following his graduation from Davidson, and served for two years as
a member of the chemistry department at the Shanghai Christian College, is now engaged in chemical research for the Mead
Johnson Company, of Evansville, Ind. Withdrawing from Johns Hopkins graduate school to accept the position with the Indiana firm, Mr.
Cox is at work on certain chemical studies connected with vitamin D, and its relation to ergosterol, etc.

News has reached Davidson of the serious illness of John McRae, '27, who is being brought back to America from
Cavalla, Greece, where he has been in the employ of the Alston Tobacco Company, since his graduation from Davidson last
June. Suffering from an illness, which has resulted in a weakening of his health to such an extent that it
was believed dangerous for him to remain in Greece, Mr. McRae is now en route to America, and will upon
his arrival be placed under the observation and care of leading specialists, it is understood here.

More than 250 church workers enrolled in the Leadership Training School, held at the First Presbyterian Church of Concord under
the direction of Mr. Claude T. Carr, '98, director of Religious Education for the Synod of North Carolina. The school
was conducted under the joint auspices of the Presbyterian and Methodist churches, and the faculty was composed of well-known members
of both denominations.

Jos. B. Johnston, '90, superintendent of the Barium Springs Orphanage had as his guests at the Barium Springs institution last
week more than 480 members of the Rotary, Kiwanis, and Lions clubs, meeting for their sixth combined luncheon.

Since 1868 the Home of Good Shoes
For Young Men Only
One of the snappiest models for young men you have ever seen—a good, corking, comfortable, long-wearing Oxford that any young
fellow would like. At only $6
ASK TO SEE IT!
Gilmer-Moore Co.
Charlotte, N. C.
SHOES LUGGAGE

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C.
CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE!
We have at all times a complete stock of New Orthophonic Victrolas and Brunswick Panatropes
Also Victor and Brunswick Records
New Records Every Friday
A Complete Line of RCA Radios from $69.50 to $895.
Parker-Gardner Co.

Victor Records released March 16, 1928
21227 There Must Be a Silver Lining—Fox Trot—Waring’s Pennsylvanians
My Stormy Weather Pal—Fox Trot—Johnny Johnson and His Statler Pennsylvanians
21214 Romona—Waltz
Lonely Melody—Fox Trot—Paul Whiteman and his Orchestra
21228 Smile—Fox Trot—Paul Whiteman and his Orchestra
Away Down South in Heaven—Fox Trot—The Virginians
21226 Black and Blue Blues—The Duncan Sisters
21230 Bungalow of Dreams—Crescent Trio
From Midnight Till Dawn—Johnny Marvin

THIS RELEASE OFFERS SOME ESPECIALLY GOOD NUMBERS
DON’T FAIL TO HEAR THEM
Davidson Book and Stationery Co.
Where Service and Quality Reign
