Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not
be published.

AUBREY BROWN - Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF:
P. D. MILDER - Managing Editor
C. M. PRATT - Managing Editor
R. F. WILDER - Managing Editor
Z. V. TAYLOR - Sports Editor
V. A. WILLIAMS - News Editor
P. B. HARRIS - Society Editor
D. P. ANDERSON - Feature Editor
W. W. SMITH - Assistant Editor
J. L. HARRISON - Assistant Editor
C. R. LEE - Associate Editor
J. B. MORIARITY - Associate Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF:
L. A. MILLS - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. McCALL - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. McGUIRE - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
R. F. COOPER - Circulation Mgr.
H. B. JENNINGS - Subscription Mgr.

H. McLEAN - President
W. C. RAGIN - Vice-President
P. F. PRESTON - Secretary-Treasurer
W. K. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
S. LON S. WILEY
J. V. D. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, NOV. 15, 1928

The Davidsonian wants:
—to welcome all alumni and visitors to the campus for Homecoming Day on the 17th.
—every student to take a personal interest in the return and reception of the “old grads.”
—to commend the Forensic Council’s excellent debate schedule, hoping that many debaters will respond for the try-outs.
—Monk Younger’s Wildcats to remember how the stadium dedication was celebrated two years ago and repeat the score Saturday.

MR. ALUMNUS, WE’LL BE GLAD TO SEE YOU!

When alumni and friends of the college arrive here Saturday for the annual Homecoming Day, the most significant and the
most striking impression which they will receive will be the finished aspect which Chambers Building has assumed since last they
were here. Indicative of a new era, this new structure stands as a challenge to the Davidson Spirit which all
of them have known since their student days and should serve as added impetus for each to give his best
in every way to Alma Mater.

It is a fine custom for one day to be designated as that one when busy men all over the
Southland will drop their work and come back to the scenes of the happiest days of their lives to renew
acquaintances, to establish new contacts, and to revel once again in that intangible thing called “college spirit.”

There will be welcomes on that day until they will feel utterly assured that the college, the student body, and
all attaches are delighted to have them home again. The Davidsonian welcomes these sons of Davidson to the campus and
hopes that the day will be filled to the utmost with the most pleasant experiences possible. Further, we hope that
every day will be a time when these alumni and friends will feel assured that they are welcome to this,
their own college.

AND CONTINUING

Easily the outstanding event of Saturday will be the football game with the University of North Carolina. This is indeed
the big drawing card, admittedly, and we are glad that Davidson’s coaches, the finest anywhere, have that Wildcat machine in
tip-top shape for the encounter. We know that these eleven ’Cats will acquit themselves like those who have gone before
them and will, in victory or defeat (victory, we believe), exemplify the fact that the “fighting spirit” still lives.

With the noise and celebration of the day; with the pleasures of associations; and the general excitement of the occasion,
many will fail to observe certain deficiencies in the physical plant of the institution. Great strides have been made within
the past few years as additions have been made, but still there are imperative demands today.

Probably the greatest need is a suitable place to house the new Department of Physical Education. There is no provision
at present. Along with this is the lack of a social center—a building wherein might be located the various offices
of campus activities—a central place for student functions.

There are the Barracks. A dormitory is needed in their place. A band without uniforms. What a paradox and yet
what a reality! Student organizations, worthy enough, are lacking in finances sufficient to promote them, Dramatics, for instance.

Consider the campus lighting fixtures. Inadequate and insufficient. The attempt has not been made to list every need but those
which are outstanding. These things are lacking, and they are necessary. They should be investigated.

MASQUE OF THE RED DEATH

After eleven years of hectic life, a child of the college is dead. This child is that student organization, the
Dramatic Club, or as it was popularly called, the Red and Black Masquers. There may be some doubt as to
its actual death, but it is assuredly missing—and that completely. Malnutrition has been given as the cause of its evident
decease. In the whole of last year, one program was presented and this was such an evident fiasco that not
even this publication mentioned it.

At the end of the year, to follow an old Davidson custom, officers were elected, and then the organization was
allowed to die a natural death. No steps have been taken this year, by the ones in charge, to revive
an interest in the Dramatic Club. Is it possible, in a school of over six hundred students, where there are
so many men preparing for public lives, where we have famous orators and excellent debaters, that talent is lacking to
put on a dramatic program of at least the usual merit?

It has been argued that there are already too many “extra-curricular activities” on the campus. We do not think so.
There is no activity at Davidson which even approaches that field covered by dramatics. We would like to see someone
who is not too very busy to take an active interest in this and put the Red and Black Masquers
over.

—C. M. P.

Minor Chords

LONG HOUSE

You cannot know how terrible and strange
It seems to me that now she has to lie
Out of sight of the sun’s bright golden eye
And out of touch with the moon. She used to range
The streets and parks bathed in the sun and moonlight,
Thoughtless most of the day, thoughtful at night,
But swimming always in the reflected glow
From the lava fields of the sun or the moon's white meadows of snow.
I cannot vision her without the flare
Of morning sunlight falling through her hair,
I cannot think of her without the moon
Of whitest midnight; the yellow sun of noon,
Without the shadows’ laughter in the park;
I cannot see her silent in the dark.

—Merrill Moore, in the Autumn Sewanee Review.

“Next to a beautiful girl, what do you think is the most interesting thing in the world?”
“When I’m next to a beautiful girl I’m not worrying about statistics.”
—Virginia Reel.

November 15, 1928.

Cosmic Chaos
By J. W. McCutchan

Breaking his usual custom of silence, President Coolidge celebrated Armistice Day by making perhaps the best speech of his career.
Advocating a stronger navy and classifying armament as a necessary defense, he also refuted much foreign criticism of America’s so-called
isolation. He closed by making a plea for worldwide peace. He explained that precautions for defense do not necessarily connote
preparation for war. The country agrees with him, but it is to be hoped that some of our feebler diplomats
will be prevented from scrapping half of the new vessels at the next disarmament conference.

* * *

Big business flourishes on the promise of a Republican administration. On Monday all records were broken for number of sales.
Over five million, five hundred thousand shares of stock were bought, sold, and traded. Small banks close their doors to
the farmer and small merchant, but corporations and trusts thrive by the success of their political organ.

* * *

While trade and commerce hurries in its rush for dividends, certain would-be conscientious individuals concern themselves with problems of inter-sectional
strife and argument. Through the voice of its governor, the state of Mississippi begs that the bodies of Lee and
Jackson be moved from “Republican” Virginia to “Democratic” Mississippi. It is hardly sensible to presume that the spirits of those
two great men are perturbed at the thought of a conscientious vote by the people of their native state. Lee,
although an officer in the Union army and in spite of the fact that he had freed his slaves, nevertheless
cast his lot with his state, believing in its sound political judgment and moral integrity. Jackson ever placed the emotions
of the conscience above other considerations. In death as well as in life those two great leaders will remain true
to their state, whatever political view she may take.

* * *

It is not news to any of the readers of this column that Mt. Etna is in eruption and that
many Sicilians and Italians have lost their lives. It is pleasing, however, to note the spirit and pride with which
the destitute rally themselves to the task of starting life over again. In their strange conceit, they admit that Etna
is a much greater volcano than Vesuvius, and they are proud of it. In connection with the relief work, it
must be admitted that it is another proof of the efficiency of Il Duce, always calm and unperturbed.

* * *

Possible solutions of some of the most astounding of recent crimes have been discovered by examiners and detectives. Rothstein, famous
gambler, is dead and leaves a huge estate gained by questionable yet unknown methods. Among his possessions have been found
bonds of a particular issue which was known to have been taken in a sensational robbery. It is claimed that
among his property, plunder aggregating more than $5,000,000 has been found which is known to have been stolen. There are
few honest gamblers; Rothstein was one of them. Yet even these few seem unable to resist the temptation to make
“easy money” when the opportunity presents itself.

* * *

Honest fear and trepidation falls to the lot of the Arab, who rides his camel in the Sahara. Dwight Braman,
engineer of New York, has presented a plan to reclaim a large portion of that great desert. By digging a
few canals from the Mediterranean Sea into the heart of the great sand dunes, a large expanse will be covered
with water. This will open up navigation ways and will make the country more productive. But the flowing burnoos will
be replaced by the overcoat, for the evaporation will cause a considerable decrease in temperature. Man abhors a change but
can adapt himself to anything.

OPEN FORUM

WAS IT WORTH IT?

Mr. Editor:

Dear “Ed”—

Is the joy, the bliss, the thrill of a tender kiss worth the price of three hours’ time, two “cokes,”
one pack of “Luckies” andthe gargle of Listerine one must pay? Or is the lingering ecstasy of a clinging embrace
a worthy compensation for the lies, the sleepless nights, the efforts, and the powdered coat-lapel? I am a senior and
like all other men of the class, I am certain that a diploma shall be mine in June and the
presidential chair a few years later. I have dated one girl steadily since my entrance into the University. And looking
at it in a cold-blooded, economical way—was it worth the price? My statistics on the matter show: 2,578 hours lost
on dates, 1,649 miles traveled to and from them, 17,893 hours of lost sleep, 236 bottles of Listerine gargled, 3,479
“cokes” purchased, 14 girls “rushed,” 56,837 hairpins recovered, and her brother bailed out of jail four times. On the other
side of the sheet, my data shows the receipt of 73 heart-rendings, 18,439 indifferent kisses, 19,511 tender embraces, chronic insomnia,
and the loss of a good fraternity pin. If my efforts and money expended on the quest could have been
utilized, I could have played 1,378 games of poker, lost $7,652, would have been somewhere between Black Rock and Big
Stick, Wyoming, with seven more years to my life, and would have cured 23,646 cases of halitosis, bought 27,923 packs
of cigarettes, or nine carloads of the best rock candy. I ask you “Ed”—was it worth it? —C. H.

Hotchpot
By W. K. Pritchett
By Dave Anderson

Some of the events of the World War which a rigorous censorship succeeded in concealing at the time are now
being made known or are coming into discussion in various ways. For instance, it was never announced in the communiques
at the time that on April 3, 1916, a German shell landed on a food supply storehouse at Verdun where
375 French infantrymen were quartered, and burned the building and all the soldiers in it. Such a story would have
been disastrous to “morale.” A similar disaster that was never revealed until after the war was the explosion of a
powder factory near Naples. It cost the lives of hundreds of workmen. The censor forbade any mention of the explosion.
General Gallieni, in his memoirs, relates the story of a troop train laden with men on the way to the
Italian front that ran off the rails in the Alps and plunged down a ravine. Five hundred soldiers were killed.
No one outside of official circles knew about it until long afterwards. General Ludendorff tells of one classic example that
occurred at Nancy. The city was being shelled by German long-range guns. Since the Germans had no means of knowing
whether their range was correct, the censor forbade any mention of the spots where the shells fell in the city.
Numerous persons were killed and their relatives placed funeral notices in the papers. There were whole columns of notices announcing
the sudden deaths of various persons, all of whom appeared to have been living in the same part of the
city. It was an easy matter for the German intelligence service to deduce that the long-range guns were effective.

“One reason why modern woman is advancing is that she no longer conceals her personality,” cites a woman writer in
a current magazine: Jess so, jess so!

The chief of police of Constantinople has given an impetus to taxicab petting parties, one of the phenomena of the
recent emancipation of Turkish women. All taxi drivers have been ordered to remove the mirrors which they have been fastening
on the inside of their windshields and with which they could watch their passengers. The chauffeurs have become so absorbed
in watching back-seat occupants that the number of traffic accidents has increased by leaps and bounds. The chauffeurs pleaded that
the mirrors were needed against passengers who have a habit of jumping out and running away without paying their fare
and also against bandit clients.

Two and a half tons of elephant meat went begging in the Idaho city which tried to dispose of the
carcass of the animal, shot when it ran amuck. Undoubtedly few democrats resided there.

The lack of an authoritative dictionary of national biography has often been deplored by American scholars. To supply this need,
the American Council of Learned Societies has undertaken the publication of a Dictionary of American Biography with Dr. Allen Johnson,
former Professor of History at Yale, as editor-in-chief. The publication of the first of the twenty volumes of the monumental
work was announced Sunday. This first volume, the work of three years, includes the biographies of 660 persons in alphabetical
order from C. Abbe, scientist, to M. Barrymore, actor. Such men as C. A. Arthur, President of the United States;
A. C. Anson, baseball player; P. D. Armour, meat packer; John Alden, a Mayflower Pilgrim, and G. Bancroft, historian, are
included in the number. The complete set will embrace about 15,000 lives, related in a total of something like 12,000,000
words. “It is a pantheon of our democracy.”

“Hey, mister, your back wheel’s going forward.”
“That’s all right, buddy; I’m on my return trip.”—Grinnell Malteasen.

Modern Girl (phoning home at 3:00 a.m.): “Don’t worry about me, Mother. I’m all right; I’m in jail.”

“What is an oyster?”
“It’s a fish built like a nut.”

The hardships of a columnist are more numerous than corns on a centipede,” says B. U. L. Lotts, krazy kolumnist
of Whiz Bang. Just exactly what we would have said, if gifted with the ability to harness our fleeting thoughts
and to store them up for posterity in expressive words. Not considering the shame and ignominy which are attached to
the profession, there are many things which tax our patience. For instance: the saddest part of this job is that
this column is judged, not by what we write, but by what is printed for public consumption. If all contributions
were placed side by side, they would reach from excellent, many fair, quite a few poor, and innumerable ones rotten.
And another thing we have to endure: contributions! Some few are excellent, many fair, quite a few poor, and innumerable
ones rotten. In this week’s waste-basket supply we found the following:

First Thug—“Who was that I seen you with last night?”
Second College Grad—“That was no lady—that was my wife.”

And this too:
“Did you know that if all the contributions were placed side by side, they would reach from here to there
and would be worth nothing?”

Don’t get us wrong. We appreciate the contributions, provided they are worth printing. For the conservation of typewriter paper, we
are printing the following rules to govern the preparation and submitting of contributions:

1. Write about three pages to make sure you have something accepted.
2. Mention, favorably, the Editor-in-Chief, so if, by any chance, said contribution passes us, it will not be held up
at the main office.
3. Do not mention degrading remarks about anyone, use the words “etc., etc.”
4. By all means, try to say something funny.

“And what’s your racket?” inquired the gentleman from Chicago of a member of the Davidson College Band.

Contemporary Thought

THE SIN OF DIFFERENCE
The Dartmouth: To be different is to lead, or to be shunned. There is no middle ground for the group's
limits in any respect, physical, mental, or moral. At Dartmouth, you are a leader of student opinion, which means that
a few persons agree with you, if you retain a positive percentage of your identity with mediocrity and differ only
in the trivial and momentary whimsies of the crowd. You are a pariah if you dare to differ in too
many things. People invariably seem to trust and respect someone who is their breed and yet a little bit, not
too much, different from the majority. They shun those in whom the common ties are infrequent if existent at all.
Accordingly, the campus ideal is keyed to mediocrity. The best fraternity man is invariably the one on whom most people
can agree. Perhaps this is the reason why so many of the campus big shots achieve only an indifferent success
after college, while those who remained in comparative obscurity during undergraduate days are reported to achieve dazzling success in the
“world.” For those sophomores who do not make a fraternity, the way to rationalization is easy. It can be argued
with every degree of justification that the individual who is shuffled out of the Greek deck, in reality, possesses those
qualities supposedly place the premium upon the true criteria of which will win him success in other environments, which character.
This may be so, for the college world is renowned for a distorted, if not inaccurate, outlook on life. But
the road of such rationalization is a hard one to follow even if the route is clear. Social pressure, the
ever-present fear of covert sneers behind your back, will soften wills and result in more tragedies. Verily the gods smile
on those who are born in the image of all men.

THIS COLLEGE LIFE
Wabash Bachelor: The push and press of ordinary life has more than invaded college life in America: it has permeated
it. Education that was once considered the slow deliberate assimilation of knowledge and the thoughtful reflection of things great by
students of the college is gone. Now all is hustle and bustle, and may the best man win. It is
very sad. Education, the original purpose of colleges and universities, has been delegated to a back seat in student life,
while campus activities and athletic contests hog the show. The swirl of events in the daily life at college keeps
the student in an endless turmoil. Possibility of reflection is nil and void. All is dumped into one mad whirl,
and a scurrying and hurrying does nothing more than produce a headache and an outside chance for a diploma. Duty
to college and organization, and insane pride in college accomplishments leads on the weary worker to yet greater efforts. Work
taken on has been shouldered for the honor of self and fraternity or club. There can be no giving up.
Scorn accompanies the failure to perform a duty, just as foolish adulation goes hand in hand with success. And the
college man who lays down a task too burdensome is slated as a slacker and a washout, while the one
who fights his way helter-skelter through four years, and grasps his sheepskin in bewilderment is accorded the acclaims of the
multitude. And so foolish daily tread the path of hardship little knowing their direction. Education and scholarship have been discarded
for a brighter, but less lasting raiment. Honors and the plaudits of the crowd draw them on, while the price
of failure prods them from behind. They stumble on and through their college course and later grimly wonder why they
went. It is very sad.
