THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 4, 1928 | Purpose of R.O.T.C. is to Train Young Men to Become Leaders | The purpose of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps is to train young men to become leaders in their community and, in the event of a national emergency, to qualify them as efficient commanders in order that unnecessary casualties might not be the penalty incident to sending men into battle under untrained officers. The R.O.T.C. inculcates respect for those things that are worthwhile, obedience to law and regulations, teamwork in the association of daily life, and that character so essential in the development of the successful man. The aims and ideals of the R.O.T.C. point toward the development of a spirit of esprit, both collegiate and national, and toward the creation in the young man of the initiative which will enable him in later years to become an outstanding man in his community. Above all, it stresses the necessity of an individual type of honor of the highest standard. The purpose of the R.O.T.C. at Davidson College is, in addition to giving the military training prescribed for such units, to be of actual service to this community. As a concrete example of the type of service rendered, the organization of the battalion into a fire-fighting unit is cited. Only last fall, the home of one of the faculty members caught fire and was quickly extinguished—incidentally by two members of the band, that much-discussed organization. Prompt and sensible action on the part of the two men concerned saved the professor considerable damage to his personal effects and, possibly, the loss of a good building to the college. The training of a band to furnish music at athletic contests and other public gatherings is fostered by the R.O.T.C. The presence of the band, especially at football games, constitutes a method for creating a community spirit that will go with the alumnus through life. The furnishing of trained men to handle traffic and crowds at big intercollegiate events is but another instance of the efforts made by the R.O.T.C. to render service. Because of the fact that most of the instructors detailed by the War Department for such duty are war veterans, the attitude of the student is anti-militaristic. These regular Army officers, having experienced the horrors and wantonness of war, give to the student a verbal picture of wartime conditions with the result that the student has no desire to go through the same experiences. The aim of the R.O.T.C. is to teach the weapons of war so that these weapons may be effectively manipulated should the occasion arise and also to instill in the potential officer’s mind the idea that peace is the only sane condition and to be relinquished only after all other measures have failed. Then, after such measures have failed, to wage an aggressive fight so that the national menace may be removed as quickly as possible. As regards the military history of this country, the R.O.T.C. is still in its infancy. ThereThere remain many things to be done before the corps shall have reached its highest degree of efficiency. Had there been a means of producing potential officers prior to the World War, however, the equal of the present organization, it is doubtful whether Germany would have held the military power of the United States in such low esteem. It is probable that such an organization, together with a selective service provision for manpower, would have prevented the entry of the United States into the World War. 

Capt. John E. Elkins.

For Heating and Plumbing Contractor of Rare Excellence See Elliott & Biggs Phone 78-W — Rest of Chambers: The contract for the middle portion of Chambers has been let and, with excavation already under way, it is expected that the entire remaining portion of the building will be completed by the latter part of May, 1929, according to President Martin. Arrangements have been made with Blythe and Isenhour, Charlotte contractors and successful bidders for the north and south wings, to complete both remaining portions at a cost of approximately $400,000. The northern wing, on which construction has been going on now for about a month and a half, is to be used mainly for laboratories and classrooms for all the sciences included in the curriculum here. It is planned for this section to be ready by January 1, 1929.

And still another leading tobacconist in Davidson, N. C., says: “OLD GOLD is easily the fastest-growing cigarette in this locality, and I shouldn’t be surprised before long to find it the most popular cigarette on the campus. The boys sure do like its smoothness.”

C. F. GOODRUM WHITE DRUG CO.

The central part of the building will include an auditorium with a seating capacity of about 1,200 on the first floor and a large banquet hall on the second. A large dome, occupying the top of this unit, will provide a special and appropriately equipped club room.

NEW EDITORIAL STAFF (Continued from page 1)

Various offices during his two years at Davidson. He is secretary-treasurer of the student body and was secretary-treasurer of the Freshman class last year. He is also a member of the Beavers Club. V. A. Milton, news editor, is of Thomasville, Ga. He is a member of Theta Upsilon Omega social fraternity and of the Reporters’ Club. He is a brother of Ernest Milton, the alumni secretary of the college. Milton is Junior assistant of basketball, and he is also Soph assistant of the Quips and Cranks. The three associate editors are members of the rising Senior class and were chosen for having filled the office of managing editors and athletic editor.

P. Lorillard Co., Base

Not a cough in a carload

This is an Old Gold year