Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN November 15, 1928.

Forty-Two Candidates Report For Rifle Team
Manager Long is Arranging Schedule of Matches With Other Teams

In response to an announcement in chapel on November 4, relative to the meeting of the Davidson Rifle Team, forty-two
men turned out, only three of whom were members of last year's team, namely: C. P. Cryer, R. D. Russell,
and W. M. Long. Among the recruits were twenty Freshmen and nineteen Juniors and Sophomores.

According to W. M. Long, manager of the team, only nine matches have been definitely arranged so far, while some
twenty more are yet to be scheduled. Those matches already adjusted are with the University of Wyoming, Michigan State, Kemper,
University of Illinois, Texas A. and M., Rutgers, University of Washington, and the University of Alabama. The schedule is by
no means complete and several matches including some shoulder to shoulder competitions are still pending. But it is probable that
they can be arranged successfully. Among those teams with which these pending matches are being made are the Charlotte Rifle
Club, Gastonia Rifle Club, V. M. I., Citadel, Wofford, Clemson, N. C. State, and others.

SOPHS WHIP FRESHMAN TEAM IN CAGE BATTLE
Rusk and Hutaff Feature in Class Contest

In the closing game of the interclass tourney, the Sophomores decisively trounced the Freshman team by the score of 39
to 20. This was the most decisive win any team scored over any other in the entire series of games.
The Sophs had pretty good team-work and could hit the basket with almost unerring accuracy. Something seemed to be the
matter with the Fresh team. At any rate, they didn’t play their usual game. This win gave the Sophs undisputed
hold on second place and relegated the Fresh team to the cellar.

The entire Soph team looked good. All of them shot baskets almost at will, no one getting less than six
points and most of them running way over that number. Dean Rusk shot five goals and one free throw for
eleven points, and Overman and Shepherd each got eight points. Hutaff played the best game for the losers, getting nine
points. Hutaff has played a highly consistent game throughout the tourney and should make a good man for the varsity
in a year or two. McGehee and Rhone have played good ball at their positions also.

DR. HOOD SPEAKS TO MINISTERIALS
Psychologist Suggests Practical Application of his Subject

“Practicing what he was preaching,” Dr. Frazer Hood, chair of psychology, urged the members of the Ministerial Band to whom
he was speaking Sunday afternoon to gain the attention, to hold the interest, to fix an impression, and to bring
about a positive response in their pastorates. With a rare and figurative interpretation of the parable of the sower, Dr.
Hood opened his talk, saying that the minister is a “sower of the seed.” The soil into which the seed
is cast is the congregation. Part of the soil is prepared, some is unprepared for the seed. Part will bring
forth an hundredfold, some will produce that which withers away.

According to Dr. Hood there are three professions, salesmanship, teaching, and preaching, which require the gaining and holding of attention,
the fixing of an impression and production of a response. The secret of gaining attention is concreteness; of holding the
attention is varying approaches to, and aspects of, the subject; of fixing an impression is association of subjects and personal
application. Response is the result of the first three steps carried through successfully.

LILLY ADDRESSES LITERARY SOCIETY
English Professor Relates Experiences of Summer’s Trip in Russia

The feature of the program of the Eumenean society at its regular meeting last Thursday was a talk by Prof.
Lilly on “Conditions in Russia.” Professor Lilly was one of the few Americans to gain entrance to Russia during the
past summer. He found the Russians to be very kindly and glad to help him make his way about, but
he was astonished at the great degree of poverty which prevailed. Theoretically the government owns everything except the personal belongings
of the citizens. He said that marriage was frowned upon by the government, that divorce was very easy, and that
children are raised in government schools. These schools are exceptionally well conducted. In Russia, due to the possibilities of graft
in a socialistic government, while the punishment for first degree murder is eight years, the punishment for stealing from the
government is death.

The Philanthropic society took advantage of the invitation extended by the Eumenean society to hear Professor Lilly.

Student-Faculty Golf Meet Staged
Second Match to be Held—Students Victor in First

Another golf match between the students and faculty has been arranged for this afternoon at 2:15. The last match, in
which the students won, proved so successful and effective that this second match was scheduled. Mills, Pepper, Hutaff, Hunt, Hart,
and Sutliff are the students who will take part in the match; while the faculty will be represented by Watts,
Moffett, Brown, Fulcher, Blythe, and Mebane.

Captain A. L. Mills is now arranging an exhibition match. Bill Goebel, professional from Charlotte, was asked out last week,
but was unable to come. He will, however, be here sometime in the near future to give the exhibition match.
Last Thursday afternoon A. L. Mills made a new course record with a 32.

PRIZES TO BE OFFERED
(Continued from page 1)

to wear a key for and something to put under a man’s name in the annual. Definite announcement will be
made of the final plans in an early issue of the paper.

Fresh Country Vegetables:
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers
BARNETT and COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Juniors Win Class Basketball Series
Juniors Defeat Seniors by Good Score to Cinch Title

The Juniors cinched the interclass basketball title last Thursday night when they beat the Seniors by a score of 20
to 11. The Juniors had practically won the title when they beat the Soph team on the preceding Tuesday night,
but to do the thing up right, they took the Seniors into camp in their last game.

Furness Johnston was high-point man of the game and was the outstanding star. He looped 13 points, just to show
the customers how it should be done. Furness evidently believes in a good beginning and good ending, as well as
a good intermediate part. He got twelve points in the first game of the series. His thirteen points in this
game were enough to beat the Seniors if his teammates had not put in a single shot. Johnston was about
the only man on the floor who got very many baskets. In fact, the game was marked by extremely close
guarding all the way. Only one goal was made during the entire first quarter, McGavoch, Junior center, looping that. The
Seniors guarded closer in this game than they have in any of the others, but were in turn closely guarded
and frequently missed the shots they did get a chance to try.

WOLFPACK CONQUERS
(Continued from page 5)

Leftwich Right Tackle
Right End
Quarterback
Left Halfback
Right Halfback
Fullback

Score by periods:
N. C. State 7 7 0 0—14
Davidson 0 7 0 0—7Touchdowns: State, Silver, Warren; Davidson, Flinn; extra point after touchdown, Adams (2) dropkicks; Brock, placement. Substitutions:
State, Vaughan for Melton, Crum for Outen; Davidson, Goodykoontz for Brohard, Mills for Harper, DeCamp for Smith, Parrish for Goodykoontz,
Captain Baker for Archie, Middleton for David, McCall for Parrish. Officials: Referee, Carrington (Va.); umpire, Boatright (S.C.); head linesman, Kirkpatrick
(N.C. State). Statistics: Average punts and kickoff: State 32.3 yards; Davidson 34.4 yards. Returned: State 130 yards, Davidson 32 yards.
Ground-gained through line: State 154 yards, Davidson 31 yards. Passes attempted: State 12; Davidson 13. Passes completed: State 4 for
43 yards; Davidson 5 for 85 yards. Opponent’s passes intercepted: State (2); Davidson (2). Fumbles: State 2; Davidson 2.

In the year 1940, we find two negroes discussing politics, “Say den Rastus, dey tell me, dat de Republicans ran
Hoover back in 1928.” “Yes, sah, Mose, but who was dat ‘er man what de white people ran?”

Visiting Nurse: “And do your children use a toothbrush regularly?”
Fond Parent: “Do they? Why the first thing they do when they get up in the morning is race to
see which one can get to it first.”—Iowa Frivol.

With The Other Colleges
Air De-humidizers
Dickinson College—(CNA)—The possibility of the development of an air de-humidifier for silencing over-talkative souls is being considered by Prof. E.
A. Vuilleumier, head of the Chemistry department of Dickinson College, according to an article in the Dickinson student paper. They
quote for authority an article in an issue of Science by the professor: “Arizona is perhaps best known in the
demi-lands as the abode of strong, silent men. So steeped in sentimentality is the lore of their localism that a
pragmatic interpretation has become imperative. The low humidity of Arizona is almost as proverbial as the silence of her strong
men. For low humidity begets parched throats and it is axiomatic that a desiccated larynx and a vociferous tongue are
incompatible. A practical application suggests itself. Long-winded speakers have been a problem not only in the Senate but also at
every after-dinner meeting in the history of the country. A local anesthetic administered with the aid of a potent air
de-humidifier would be effective.” The Dickensonian suggests the application of this machine to assembly speakers. It could be installed near
the speaker’s place and turned on when his talk became uninteresting and lengthy.

No Shirt-Tail Parade
Washburn College—(CNA)—A threat to abolish student government at Washburn College, by Dr. Parley P. Womer, president, has followed student disorders
at a shirt-tail parade and student walkout a week ago. The student body refused to attend classes Friday and while
out tore down labor union banners, disrupted classes in the high school, invaded the girls’ dorm, and took over the
town generally! “If the student government cannot handle the students any better than such a demonstration we will have a
monarchy. Take your choice,” Dr. Womer told them.

They Live Longer
Haverford College—(CNA)—A Haverford graduate has exactly 50 percent more chance to live longer if he is a graduate of this
school than if he drops out before he gets his diploma. This was figured out by Royal J. Davis, editorial
writer of the New York Evening Post, from the alumni directory recently issued by Haverford. Figures show that 78 percent
of the 1,730 graduates are now living, while only 52 percent of the non-graduates are living. “What could be better
proof of the evidence of the value of the Haverford atmosphere,” Davis concluded in his communication to the publicity department.

STOP!
From the Show at WILDCAT CAFE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
HOME COOKED FOOD
OPEN TILL 11 P. M.

Do you have an insurance counsellor? An Insurance Counsellor is a man trained to render you a professional service which
will provide adequate protection consistent with savings in both time and money. Our organization is represented by just this type
of Insurance Counsellor—men who will be glad to consult with you for your protection. McAlister Carson (’13), Mgr. M. B.
Speir, Jr. (’26)
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Bring Out Your Fall Clothes
THE COLLEGE MAN’S TAILOR
Bring them to us and we can alter, repair, and get them in shape to wear. Clothes remodeled to the
latest styles of fashion. Bring us your work and be convinced.
A. GERSKOV THE TAILOR

Undergrad Debts
Yale College—(CNA)—The student who graduates from college with a debt hanging over his head is held back at the outset
of his career, Dean Clarence W. Mendell, of Yale College, declared in expressing his opposition to the borrowing of money
to defray the expenses of undergraduates at college. The Yale educator also expressed his opposition to the system proposed by
Dr. Trevor Arnott at Chicago recently whereby colleges would be run in a more businesslike fashion, with consequent higher costs
to students. Dr. Arnott favored the policy of the students borrowing money to meet the needs of such high costs
to the student, while Dean Mendell opposed him in every respect, denying that it is best for college expenses to
be increased. As to the inadvisability of students going into debt to pay their way through college, Dean Mendell added
that the student who does adopt this means of getting through has the wrong incentive at the very beginning and
instead of building steadily for the future his energies are absorbed in an effort to pay off debts hanging over
him.

New Arch Lecture
Butler University—(CNA)—The dominating feature of the new campus of Butler University is the fact that all the offices, classrooms, and
even laboratories are housed in one building. There are 54 classrooms, the administration offices, the college of liberal arts and
religion, the library, science hall, laboratories, domestic sciences and arts, and a botanical conservatory which consists of a herbarium and
greenhouse. The building is of gothic structure and five other buildings of the same type are being planned to carry
out uniformity on the campus. The foundations are from 12 to 20 feet thick and the walls are three feet
thick.

The Weather
Massachusetts Institute of Technology—(CNA)—Weather forecasting for aviation is included in an advanced course in meteorology by the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. The course, believed by the institute to be the first of its kind in the country, will be given
by Dr. Carl-Gustaf Arvid Rossby, a native of Sweden and recently chairman of the committee on aeronautical meteorology of the
Daniel Guggenheim fund for the promotion of aeronautics.

ABE MARTIN ON THRILLS
“The great unsettling, disturbing factor in American life today is the insistent and growing thirst for thrills,” declares Abe Martin
in the December College Humor. “Women especially crave thrills. Look how they rush to go under the knife for the
thrill of an operation. There ain’t a thrill left in housekeeping, except perhaps climbing on a stepladder now and then.
Men, too, are beginning to complain. They get a thrill out of spending money, but earning it is growing tiresome
and prosy. It’s the great variety of present-day thrills that’s alarming. Robbing a bank when you don’t need the money,
drinking anything that smells like formaldehyde, starting off to Paris in one-motor planes, walking home from thickets at three a.m.
I don’t believe there’s any thrill left to a first kiss; it comes too easy these days. We're getting so
blasé that we walk out on a lion act.”

CAT TRAX DOPE
(Continued from page 1)
A day or hour may bring forth. Without a Guide, we run into the line separating the finite from the
infinite, and are apt to lose our mental stability in this realm unsuited to man’s petty reasoning powers. Fear of
physical disability faces all of us; and though we may find a Milton or Scott occasionally who can surmount these
obstacles, the average person is very much depressed by handicaps of this nature. Likewise, the man of the world who
sees his youthful dreams of success fading, is prone to feel embittered and that life is not worth living. Yet
the All-powerful Friend, “For all power is given unto Him in heaven and on earth,” will be our constant Guide,
Companion, and Helper, if we will only return His friendship.

Little Brother: “Yes, I just saw you kiss my sister.”
Bill: “Ah—here’s a quarter. Keep quiet.”
Young One: “And here’s ten cents change—one price to all. That’s the way I do business.”—Lenoir Rhynean.

She: “Why, your hair is coming out.”
He: “Can you recommend anything to keep it in?”
She: “Sure, a cigar box.”—R. H. S. Booster.

Boys, Bring Your Friends
Davidson Book & Stationery Co.
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
Everything in Stationery - Kodaks - Victrolas - Student Supplies
Make Our Store Your Headquarters
“EVERYTHING THE STUDENT NEEDS”

Davidson Theatre
Monday, 19th
Mary Astor, Edwin Lowe
“Gate of the Underworld”
Tuesday, 20th
Janet Gaynor, Chas. Farrel
“Sunrise”
Wednesday, 21st
Alma Rubins, David Robbins
“Prep and Pep”
Thursday, 22nd
John Gilbert
“Man of the Mast”
Saturday, 24th
Tom Taylor in
“Unknown Terror”
