O man ever prayed heartily without learning something. —Emerson.

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
THE DAVIDSONIAN
WATCH THIS SPACE NEXT WEEK

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 22, 1928

STATE GLEE CLUB MEET TO BE HELD AT DURHAM DEC. 6
Davidson Organization is Preparing for Contest
STATE TOUR ARRANGED
Duke, N. C. State, and Guilford Will Also Participate in Meet

After much delay, it has been announced by the state officers that there will be a State Glee Club contest
this year. This contest is to be held in Durham on December 6, with four colleges being represented. They are
Duke, State, Davidson, and Guilford. The contest song is to be “Songs My Mother Taught Me,” by Dvorak. There will
also be another song which each club will select for itself. Davidson's Club will probably use “Sylvia” as their other
song. It will be remembered that the Duke Club last year topped Davidson's Club by less than half a point
to win first place. Professor Cullum and the officers of the Glee Club are not saying much about what they
think are Davidson’s chances this year, but it is evident enough that they are planning on being second to none.

Around the State Contest will be centered the fall Glee Club trip. Leaving here about noon on Monday, December 3,
they will go to Troy, where they will give a program that night, sponsored by the Troy Parent Teachers’ Association.
On Tuesday the club will go to Red Springs, where they will give a matinee at Flora Macdonald College at
3:00 o'clock, being sponsored by the Senior Class there. Leaving immediately after the matinee, they will arrive in Elizabethtown in
time to give a concert there that night. Wednesday night the club will give a concert in Fayetteville and then
on to Durham Thursday for the State Contest. The club will return to Davidson shortly after the concert. Manager Abernathy
announced that the club would also probably stop at several high schools along the route during school hours and give
half-hour programs. He also stated that the churches in every town in which the club is to stop overnight for
a concert had willingly pledged their co-operation and support by offering to provide entertainment for the club in the homes
of the church members. Some 30 men will make this trip and, as usual, the club will charter a special
bus in which to travel.

JACKSON SPEAKS AT ‘Y’ VESPER SERVICES
Discusses Evils of Life of Idleness and Self-Satisfaction

“The smugly complacent, self-satisfied way of life is the way of tragedy,” declared Rev. James W. Jackson, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church of Greenwood, S. C., at “Y” vespers in Shearer Hall Sunday evening. The eleventh chapter of Luke’s
Gospel, containing the account of the sleepy householder aroused late at night by a neighbor seeking to borrow bread, was
the scriptural basis for the speaker’s message. The fact that the neighbor succeeded because of his importunity was stressed by
Jesus that His people might be persevering in prayer. Yet it is interesting and instructive to look at this incident
from the point of view of the man in bed. “Trouble me not,” or “Don’t bother me,” was his reply
when called upon to serve. We cannot overlook the fact that this attitude of indifference is quite as prevalent today
as it was in the time of Jesus. Laziness, indecision, and self-satisfaction are powerful factors in preventing the development of
the highest character in manhood. There are many reasons why people take this attitude of “Don’t bother me.” Interference with
money-making as in the case of the Gadarenes, upsetting old traditional ideas and customs as at Capernaum, opposition to governmental
crookedness of Herod, and decrying the racial prejudice of the Samaritans caused all these people to take this position toward
Jesus’ teachings. In modern life we are so coddled by the comforts of home that we are afraid to accept
a great challenge when it comes to us lest it cause us to suffer a little hardship. The tragedies of
twentieth-century life are not caused by the “bad people” but by those not quite good enough to live a real
dynamic Christian life.

Then, too, the divorcing of the forehead (Continued on page 4)

New Council Member

At a recent meeting of the Honorary Fraternity Council, the lately installed chapter of Eta Sigma Phi, national honorary classical
fraternity, was recognized, thus being a member of the council. Eta Sigma Phi has not yet designated their representative to
that organization. The program for honorary fraternities was reorganized to be adapted to changes of the literary society dates. A
complete schedule will be published next week.

Capt. Elkins Stages Campaign For Dress Uniforms For Band
Funds to be Raised by Personal Contributions from Faculty, Students, and Others

Recognizing the need for dress uniforms for the R. O. T. C. Band, Capt. John W. Elkins has launched a
drive to procure sufficient funds to equip that organization with full dress. The fund for this purpose is to be
raised by personal contribution from the faculty, the Davidson-Cornelius and the Mooresville Posts of the American Legion, the student body,
and any others who wish to contribute to the cause. Letters have been mailed to individuals and many of them
have been returned with checks attached. Capt. Elkins expects to close the campaign soon with enough cash to purchase an
entire uniform for the drum major and capes for each member of the band. The entire amount necessary to complete
the equipment will be $900 but this total will not be raised immediately. It is hoped by those in charge
that when approached, the student body will donate generously to the fund since dress uniforms will enhance the band at
all public appearances, lend appreciably to all athletic engagements, and be a source of pride to the college.

Chameleon Editors Plan Poetry Edition About Thanksgiving
Poetry Will Be Stressed More in Next Issue Than in Past

The next issue of the Chameleon will appear on or about Thanksgiving. As this will be the last issue of
the magazine before the Christmas holidays, the editors are bending every effort to make it one which will be entirely
satisfactory, and one which will meet with the approval of the students. For the last three years, it has been
the policy to change the color of the magazine at each publication. There were no book reviews in the first
issue of the Chameleon, and a change will be made by the editorial staff to include these reviews in the
next edition. Three or four of the most recent and widely read books will be reviewed. This edition will stress
more poetry than has been done in those preceding it, featuring two long poems, and beginning with a poem by
Frank Hall. A rhymed criticism of the Chameleon staff will also be given. First-year men are urged to turn in
material, as the staff wishes to develop freshman talent. There will be a wide variety of material in the November
edition, including one or two sketches, short stories, poems, and a one-act play.

SECRETARY VISITS DISTRICT SCHOOLS

To interview the members of the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. cabinet was the purpose of the recent visit
of Mr. C. B. Loomis. Mr. Loomis is one of the two secretaries of the Southern Region of the “Y”,
and is making a round of all the schools in this district which have active associations. Coming to Davidson on
last Friday, November 16, he gave personal interviews to each member of the cabinet. The purpose was to outline the
fieldwork of each department and to offer suggestions. His words put enthusiasm into the men who had the privilege of
talking with him and each one derived much benefit from his visit. (Continued on page 6)

No. 10

CAROLINA JURIST DELIVERS KEYNOTE ADDRESS SATURDAY
Praises Heritage of Leadership Belonging to Davidson
BRILLIANT FUTURE SEEN
Dr. C. K. Brown Leads Students and Alumni in Tribute to Dead

Immediately following the R. O. T. C. parade Saturday morning, Davidson alumni and students assembled in the stadium for the
feature address of Homecoming Day, delivered by Col. A. L. Gaston, prominent jurist of Chester, S. C. Rev. John McSween,
president of Presbyterian College of South Carolina, and an alumnus of Davidson, presided over the exercises. Returning Davidson graduates were
welcomed to the campus by Dr. W. J. Martin, president.

Tribute to Dead

An impressive moment of the program was the tribute to Davidson men who have died during the past year. Dr.
C. K. Brown, of the Davidson faculty, was in charge. Colonel Gaston said that “Davidson College has rendered an outstanding
service in the development of the best Christian manhood of the nation. Under the leadership of Dr. W. J. Martin,
and with a magnificent faculty and student body, Davidson is destined to a greater sphere of usefulness and greatness.”

Pure Americans

In a brief historical sketch of the founding and settling of this section of the South, Colonel Gaston expressed deep
satisfaction resulting from the great number of keen intellects and strong leaders which have developed here. “No influx of new
and untried people has forced its way into our midst and no large foreign population has had to be absorbed
to form an undigestible mixture. We are purely as American as can be found in any section of the country,
and as hardy and brave as those sturdy men who founded Jamestown in 1607, ere the Pilgrim fathers had sought
the inviting shores in the far-famed and much-sung Mayflower.” As a heritage of this type of men, Davidson College may
look forward to a future of greatness, according to Colonel Gaston, and will be called upon to assume the leadership
in the progress and advancement of education in this and other parts of the country.

Gleemen Give First Concert at Queens
Senior Class of Girls’ School of Charlotte Sponsors Appearance

Tuesday night the Glee Club of Davidson College gave its first concert of the year before a large audience at
Queens College, in Charlotte. This performance was sponsored by the Senior class of that college. Accompanying the Glee Club on
this trip were the Concert and Jazz Orchestras. The audience was very enthusiastic over all of the numbers, but the
Jazz Orchestra came in for a lion’s share of the applause. The Concert Orchestra showed improvement even over the talented
musicians of last year, while the vocal numbers, especially the lighter ones, went over well. Immediately after the performance, the
Senior class of Queens was host to the club at a delightful reception.

Seminary Students Will Visit Davidson

Three Union Seminary men, Jack Redhead, E. M. McGukin, and Chester Frist, will come here next Sunday on a deputation.
Mr. Redhead will speak at Y. M. C. A. vespers Sunday night, and Mr. Frist will address the Ministerial Band
at 2:30 that afternoon. All three will be guests of the student body for the weekend. Jack Redhead is a
graduate of Southwestern University and a senior at the Seminary. While at the University he was a member of the
Kappa Sigma social fraternity and played varsity football. He graduated as a first man in the class. He is now
president of the athletic council at the Seminary and will probably graduate as an honor man. E. M. McGukin graduated
from Davidson in the class of ‘22. While here he was for two years a member of the Student Council
and a letterman in track. Now a senior at the Seminary, he is president of the student body there. Chester
Frist, a first-year man at the Seminary, is also a graduate of Southwestern University.

Initiation Deferred

The semi-annual Phi Beta Kappa initiationwill be held approximately a month later this year than has been the custom heretofore.
Instead of the initiation coming early in December, it will not be held until the middle of January.

Although no definite program has as yet been formulated, it is said that Dr. Archibald Henderson of the University of
North Carolina will be the speaker of the occasion.

Many Expected Out For Debate Prelims Tuesday, December 4
Question for Discussion is Public Ownership of Water Power

According to an announcement made by W. L. Dumas, president of the Forensic Council, debate try-outs are to be held
Tuesday, December 4, at 8:00 p.m., at Shearer Hall. The faculty committee on debates is Prof. A. Curry, Dr. J.
M. McConnell, Prof. F. K. Fleagle, Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof. D. R. McGrew. This committee will act as judges.
They will pick probably 15 men to compose the debating squad. Ten men will make up the varsity and the
remaining five will be alternates. The faculty committee and Forensic Council will, jointly, place the men so that they will
form the strongest teams possible. Contrary to the method last year, everybody will have to try out this year whether
they made the varsity team last year or not. It is expected that about 35 men will try out. The
question for debate is: “Resolved, That Federal Government Should Own and Operate the Principal Sources of Hydro-electric Power in the
United States.”

TECH RELAY MEET BOOKED FOR 1929
State High School Meet Will Again Be Held Here

Davidson's schedule for the 1929 track season has been filled, according to an announcement by Manager R. S. Abernethy. The
meets with colleges which were not met last year, taking the places of those which have been dropped. The high
spots of the schedule are the Georgia Tech Relays and the North Carolina State meet. The Tech relays will be
held in Atlanta on April 13th. Each year teams from all over the eastern part of the United States attend
this meet, which includes in addition to the relays, all types of track events. Heath Whittle, of the Davidson team,
placed second in the 220-yard low hurdles there last year. The State meet is attended by nearly all the North
Carolina college teams and will be held in Greensboro on May 4. On March 23, the annual state high school
meet which is sponsored by Davidson will be held here. All the high schools in the state are invited to
enter, and in past years a great many have sent teams to take part in it. Last year 22 schools
were represented. The fall practice has given indication that Davidson will have a better team than any of recent years.
There are good prospects among the freshmen, especially in the weights. Captain N. G. Pritchett is planning to continue his
fall practice as long as the weather permits, and to begin practice again as soon as possible. The following is
the list of teams to be met:
University of Virginia, there, March 30.
V. P. I., there, April 1.
Wake Forest, here, April 6.
Tech Relays, Atlanta, April 13.
V. M. I., there, April 27.
N. C. State meet, Greensboro, May 4.
A meet with State College will probably be worked into the schedule.

At the University he belonged to the S. A. E. social fraternity and was for four years on the Honor
Council. During his third year he was president of the Honor Council, and president of the student body his fourth.
It is to be expressly understood that these men are guests of the student body while here. Mr. McGukin is
to be the guest of Johnnie Melton, Mr. Redhead of Monroe Gilmour, and Mr. Frist that of Bob Kell. All
who wish to meet them and speak to them personally will do so by getting in touch with their hosts.

DR. LINGLE GIVEN LEAVE OF ABSENCE
To Visit Egypt, Palestine and Other Countries

Dr. T. W. Lingle, professor of French and History, has been given a seven months’ leave of absence from the
college, beginning the second semester and lasting through the entire summer. Dr. Lingle plans to spend this time in travel
and study through countries where Ancient and Medieval History had their making. Leaving the latter part of January, Dr. Lingle,
accompanied by Mrs. Lingle, will sail for Egypt, where they will take train at Alexandria for points of interest throughout
this country, spending six weeks in their study of this interesting old valley of learning. From Egypt they will travel
to Palestine, where they will spend a short time. From Palestine they expect to go to Syria and the valley
of the Tigris and Euphrates, where they will be for several weeks. Returning from Mesopotamia, they plan to spend several
weeks in the Aegean Islands. After this visit to the islands they will tour Southern Italy and Sicily, visiting Tunis,
the site of ancient Carthage. The hot days of midsummer will find Dr. Lingle enjoying the cool breezes at a
German Buena Vista. He will return to America in late August, thus completing a very extensive visit to many points
of interest. This is Dr. Lingle’s fifth tour of Europe and the Old World and will far surpass any of
his former trips. The fact that Dr. Lingle speaks several languages fluently, including German, French, Spanish and Portuguese, will add
much to his trip. He hopes to make his courses at Davidson much more interesting as the result of travels
and study on this trip.

Stunts of Mediocre Nature Exhibited by Class Saturday Night
Glee Club Presentations Are Redeeming Features of Stunt Night

Last Saturday night Davidson's Glee Club presented to Homecoming visitors the annual Stunt Night program, with presentations from each class
and special numbers from the orchestras and Glee Club. Every seat available in Shearer Hall was sold out before time
for the curtain to rise. Most of the night’s entertainment was composed of burlesque and mimicry, although the Glee Club
and Jazz Orchestra furnished musical numbers of merit. The Glee Club quartet, composed of Bradley, Abernethy, DuBose, and Poole, was
well received in several selections. A pleasing feature of the program was the group of selections played by the Sunnyland
Serenaders, with Owen Geer directing. These numbers were well selected and were given in such a way as to win
enthusiastic appreciation from the large audience. The Orr brothers, Davidson's talented violinists, contributed several selections to the night's entertainment. The
class stunts were burlesques of a mediocre and often very doubtful nature. Some of the wise cracks went over and
some did not, a large number of them being directed at faculty and student body members. The freshman stunt consisted
mainly of wise cracks and jokes between students in a dormitory room, with a trio of blackface comedians offering a
little entertainment. The sophomore stunt, featuring blackface humor and a bathing beauty contest, showed some degree of preparation and interest
from those taking part. The Juniors presented a radio program, and except for its finale, was free from doubtful material.
The senior class gave a few insights into the early lives of many of the world’s greatest characters and was
appreciated for its brevity. Lack of time for preparation was probably responsible for the failure of the program to measure
up to standard in many respects, but the natural enthusiasm of the audience allowed the evening to pass without serious
mishap. Instrumental and vocal music was a redeeming feature of the night’s performance.

Tar Heels Open Aerial Attack To Defeat ’Cats In Home-Coming Classic
Davidson Battles Carolina to Standstill in First Half
KELL STARS FOR ’CATS
Intercepted Pass by Schwartz Results in Touchdown that Overcome

Before a Homecoming Day Crowd estimated at 7,000, a light but fighting Red and Black machine went down in glorious
defeat before a heavier and stronger eleven from the University of North Carolina. For nearly three-quarters of the game the
Wildcats out-fought and out-played the Tar Heels in practically every department, but an aerial attack opened in the third quarter
proved too much.

Carolina won the toss-up and chose to receive. The kick-off was returned to their 36-yard line and the ball was
soon advanced into Davidson territory by the hammering line drives of Nash, House and Ward. Then that thin red line
displayed those sterling fighting qualities that were successful in halting the advance of the rival backs when they attempted to
plow through the line.

Carolina Scores First

The second period opened with the ball in Carolina's possession on Davidson’s 10-yard line. Here the Tar Heels flashed a
passing attack that after four plays resulted in the first touchdown of the day. Kell, outstanding star of the game,
again covered himself with glory by his excellent generalship, running and passing. Receiving the kick-off after the touchdown on the
19-yard line, Kell returned it 20 yards to the 29-yard line. Failing here to make any gain through the stalwart
Carolina line, Davidson also resorted to the air and Kell heaved a pass to Brock that was good for 13
yards. This proved a tonic for the ’Cats, and line drives by Kell, Flinn and Brohard, and another pass, Kell
to Flinn, gave another first down.

Davidson 7, Carolina 6

The ball was now on Carolina’s 32-yard line, and the stands were pleading for a touchdown. Kell again stepped into
the limelight when he ripped through the line for another six yards; this was followed by a beautiful pass to
Brock which netted 15 yards. With the oval now on the 10-yard line, Kell got five and Flinn and Brohard
made one each. Then the stands went wild as another pass from Kell to Brock tied the score on the
last down. A place-kick by Brock broke the tie and the score was Davidson 7, Carolina 6. Thus the half
ended without any further scoring.

For about half of the third quarter the battle continued to be stubborn and practically evenly matched, the ’Cats stubbornly
holding the Tar Heels for downs on the one-yard line at one time, but after that the change came. On
the third down a Davidson pass was intercepted by Captain Schwartz on their 40-yard line, and this proved to be
the turning point of the game.

Aerial Attack Opened

On the next play a beautifully executed pass, Magner to Nash, was good for 38 yards and a touchdown. This
was the first of those fatal passes and, although they only netted one touchdown in the third period, they were
executed in earnest in the final quarter. The next touchdown resulted from a Davidson punt that went wrong and was
placed in bounds on their own 31-yard line. Then line plays in which Gray and Magner figured most and a
pass, Magner to Holt, gave Carolina their third of the day. The Wildcats had been able to hold their own
in line plays, but were now unable to check the air attack, and another touchdown soon followed by the same
route, this time Jackson to Erickson.

Davidson Swamped

The Red and Black eleven was still fighting, but the substitution of practically a whole new team in the first
part of the last quarter was beginning to tell on the tired and battered team, and Carolina passed their way
to the fifth and last touchdown, Whisnant to Jackson. The Tar Heels failed for the fifth time to get the
extra point and the game soon ended with the score Davidson 7, Carolina 30. As it was, the defeat was
glorious and honorable. The Wildcats were up against a better and stronger foe, which fact makes the fight exhibited throughout
the first half and in fact during the whole game by Davidson all the more praiseworthy.
