THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 4, 1928

Sport Talk - News and Views of Wildcat Events
By Raymond Lake

The Wildcats don’t do very much in the distance runs, but when it comes to the dashes they’re right there
with the goods and at the head of the line, too. In their meet Saturday with the State team, the
Wildcats were in the lead and stayed there until near the last part of the meet. Whittle showed up unusually
well and pushed Currie mighty close for first place in the 100-yard dash. In the 220-yard low hurdles, he again
showed up well and came out at the head of the race, breaking one of the college records. In the
high hurdles, Brown would have had the race easily, but knocked over three hurdles and was disqualified. Leftwich also was
in good form and broke another of the college records. The old record, which was also held by Leftwich, was
39 feet 9 inches for the 16-pound shot, and the new record set by him last Saturday was 41 feet
3 inches, 1 foot and 6 inches better than the former record. The meet was not unusually fast, but breaking
two college records in one afternoon is no very common occurrence. Gardner, though he did not break a college record,
went higher than he has ever jumped before, and took first place in the high jump. He had never been
higher than 5 feet 6 inches before, and he took the high jump Saturday at 5 feet 10 inches.

The Freshmen also came out on the bottom in their meet last Friday with the Charlotte High School team. The
score of each of the meets was fairly close, but the visitors came out on the top in each case.
No records were broken in the Freshman meet and it was not unusually fast or out of the ordinary, but
the Wildkittens showed up well nevertheless, and deserve praise for their work.

The home teams seem to be on a “losing spree,” or seem to have been last week at any rate.
The baseball team also lost its game with the Elon Christians by a score that does not flatter the home
team in the least, 6 to 0. McInnis, on the mound for the Wildcats, pitched a good game, but was
not supported by the other members of the team. In one inning several errors were made and several runs were
given to the visitors without even any resistance. The Wildcats tightened down during the last few innings, and played a
good game of ball, but the Elon team was too far ahead by that time and they were able to
hold their lead and to keep the Wildcats from scoring. The visitors had a good team, and put two especially
good pitchers on the mound. The Wildcats play the team from Pennsylvania next Tuesday, and if they can come out
ahead in this game they will redeem themselves quite a bit for their losses last week. A win over the
Pennsylvania team will raise their stock quite a bit and will show that they have something more than appears on
the surface. The game will no doubt draw out a large crowd and it’s up to the Wildcats to perform
in their best form on that day.

Davidson Trackmen
In the second meet of the season, Davidson’s track team, led by dashing John Currie, will compete with the Blue
Devils of Duke University this afternoon in Durham. Duke sustained an 80-46 defeat at the hands of Carolina while the
Wildcats were conquered by N. C. State 73-53 last week. Indications point to a show of superiority by Davidson in
the dash events, with Duke going strong in the distance and field events. Captain Currie and Whittle will meet stiff
opposition, however, in the century in Bruton, who defeated the Carolina cinderman with the time of ten seconds flat, which
was Currie’s time last Saturday. Leftwich’s lengthy heave of the shot in the recent meet makes him a favorite in
the meet today. The winning broad jump in the Carolina-Duke meet was one of 20 feet 5 1-4 inches, won
by a Carolina man, and Gardner is being relied upon to win this event. His high jump of 5 feet
10 inches Saturday was three inches better than the Blue Devils could do against the Tar Heels. Bill Bailey, in
the pole vault, will be required to do his best against Reed and Finley. Twenty-two men together with Coach Tilson
and Manager Wearn are in Durham for this dual meet.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see M. P. Crawford
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Have you seen it? What? Our new home, of course.
We invite you to come in and let us show you how well equipped we are to ably take care
of all your Banking, Trust and Insurance needs.
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McALISTER CARSON (’13) Mgr.

S&W Cafeterias are catering to you (ATLANTA Soon)
If You Want Your Frat Pin Back
Take Her a Bag O’ Lance’s Salted Peanuts!
M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)

ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

Crew from Elon for Second Successive Year
Cats Play Erratically, Seem Unable to Rally
HARRISON’S CATCH, FEATURE
Consistent Pitching of Briggs, Christian Hurler, Blanks Davidson With 6-0 Score

In spite of all a bunch of scrapping Wildcats could do, another scrapping crew from Elon College pulled the wool
over their eyes for the second straight year, and as a result the ’Cats left the diamond Thursday afternoon on
the very short end of a 6-0 count. A young man by the name of Briggs served them up for
the Christians so well that only six widely scattered bingles were realized from his delivery, and only on two occasions
did a Davidson player reach third base, there to die ignominiously. On the other hand, McInnis, Coach Monk’s best bet
on the hurling proposition, was unable to repeat his good performance of the Oak Ridge game, and the visitors solved
his delivery at critical times when hits meant runs. For the first two innings everything was rosy, with the ’Cat
infield looking good, but in the fatal third, Littlejohn and Harrison failed to get together around the keystone sack on
several easy chances and before the dust settled four runs were over the pan and well chalked down. After this
Briggs, who had been hit rather freely by the ’Cats, tightened up and was invincible, causing the hopes of the
Red and Black to drift away on the wings of numerous flies and easy grounders. Smith, for the visitors, contributed
some nice slugging from time to time, as did Pitcher Briggs.and two more counters were salted away before the game
ended. The Wildcat hitters were woefully off form, Kugler alone seeming able to connect squarely. This veteran collected two nice
smacks to lead the locals' attack. Bennie MacAuley caught a nice game, roaming far and wide to grab difficult fouls.
His throw to second, however, was weak. Charlie Harrison contributed the fielding feature when he ran far to his left,
picked up a hot grass-cutter with one hand, and got his man at first. Johnson pulled down a long drive
in center that had all the earmarks of a triple. At times the 'Cats looked good in the field, but
the deciding factors in losing the game were old fielding lapses which occurred so frequently last season. Of course, Briggs'
pitching was a mighty problem to overcome, and it is to be questioned whether or not the swatsmiths of the
House of Younger ever would have gotten on to him. Box score and summary follow:

ELON
AB R H PO A
Harrington, ss .......... 4 3 0 6 5
Smith, 3b ............... 4 0 2 2 0
Briggs, H., 2b .......... 5 4 0 2 3
Simppoli, Gano ......... 4 1 1 1 0
Fowler, cf .............. 5 1 1 2 0
Shepherd, c ............. 0 1 5 0
Crutchfield, 1b ......... 4 0 0 5 1
Clark, lf ............... 3 0 6 0 1
Briggs, V., p ........... 4 3 2 5 2
Totals ................. 38 6 8 27 11

DAVIDSON
AB R H PO A
Harrison, 2b ........... 4 0 1 2 1
Ratchford, lf .......... 3 0 1 0 0
Dulin, 3b .............. 4 0 0 2 2
Johnson, cf ............ 4 0 0 3 1
Crawford, 1b .......... 3 0 0 9 0
Kugler, cf-ss .......... 4 0 2 1 0
Littlejohn, ss .......... 2 0 1 1 2
McConnell, rf .......... 2 0 0 1 0
McAulay, c ............ 3 0 0 6 0
McGeachy, c ........... 1 0 1 0 0
McInnis, p ............. 2 0 0 2 4
Henderson, p .......... 1 0 0 0 0
Totals ................. 33 0 6 27 10

Score by innings: R H
Elon ................. 004 101 000— 6 8
Davidson ............ 000 000 000— 0 6

Three-base hit: Smith; two-base hits: Crutchfield; base on balls: off Briggs 2, off

Fresh Lose Meet to Charlotte High

The Wildkitten trackmen lost their first meet of the season to Charlotte High last Friday when the Queen City runners
piled up a total of 58 1-3 points to 49 2-3 points for the young Wildcats. The Freshmen took the
lead early in the meet but were unable to maintain it as the meet advanced, results of the last event
showing Charlotte to have the lead by a margin of 13 points. A cold wind blowing down the track hindered
the runners and jumpers in their events. Neal, star Freshman sprinter, was high point scorer for the meet, taking three
first places and piling up 15 points for his team. Mullis, of Charlotte, came second with 13 points, and Reid,
of Charlotte, third with 10 points. Summary:

100-yard dash—Neal, Davidson Fresh, first; Hicks, Charlotte; Goodykoontz, Davidson Fresh; Wilson, Charlotte. Time 10.5 seconds.
220-yard dash—Neal, Davidson Fresh, first; Hicks, Charlotte; Goodykoontz, Davidson Fresh. Time 25 seconds.
440-yard dash—Neal, Davidson Fresh, first; Woodside, Charlotte; Goodykoontz, Davidson Fresh. Time 56 seconds.
120 low hurdles—Reid, Charlotte, first; Johnson, Charlotte; George, Davidson Fresh. Time 15 seconds.
880-yard run—Sherrill, Charlotte, first; Earley, Charlotte; Drake, Davidson Fresh. Time 2 minutes 15 seconds.
1-mile run—Davenport, Charlotte, first; Wilson, Davidson Fresh; Lumpkin, Charlotte. Time 5 minutes 10 seconds.
Pole vault—Brock, Davidson Fresh, and Houston, Charlotte, tied; Williams, Charlotte. Height 9 feet 9 inches.
Shot put—Mullis, Charlotte, first; Fraley, Davidson Fresh; Van Avery, Charlotte. Distance 42 feet 8 1-2 inches.
High jump—Reid, Charlotte, first; Johnson, Charlotte; Dennis, Davidson Fresh, and McColl, Davidson Fresh, tied for second. Height 5 feet 7
inches.
Discus—Mullis, Charlotte, first; Fraley, Davidson Fresh; Hall, Davidson Fresh. Distance 116 feet 8 inches.
Broad jump—McColl, Davidson Fresh, first; Reid, Charlotte; Woodside, Charlotte. Distance 20 feet 5 inches.
Javelin—Coble, Davidson Fresh, first; Mullis, Charlotte; McCullough, Davidson Fresh. Distance 142 feet 2 inches.

Randolph-Macon College

Clothes for College Men—Whether on the Campus or off the Campus you'll find Tudor Hall Clothes are accepted as the
foremost style leaders in the field.

Virginia Invaded by Cats on First Trip

With five games on their schedule, Coach Younger's Wildcat diamond artists are now in the midst of a Virginia invasion
taking them to Lynchburg, Roanoke, and V. P. I., with an engagement with Guilford on the northbound trip. In the
second collegiate game of the season, the Davidson bunch met Guilford on Monday, proceeding to Lynchburg for two games on
Tuesday and Wednesday. (News from these games was not available at the time of going to press). Tomorrow they play
Roanoke College at Salem and go on to Blacksburg to engage the V. P. I. aggregation. This game concludes the
trip and the team will return to the campus to rest up for the Easter Monday game with Carolina, which
will be played in Salisbury. Attractive features of the Virginia trip were stop-overs which were planned for Woman's College, at
Lynchburg and Sweetbriar, near Blacksburg, where a number of "cousins" of the members of the team are instructed. The men
who are on the trip are: McAuley and McGeachy, catchers; Meadows, McInnis, Henderson, Doc Kugler, and Maulden, pitchers; Crawford, Harrison,
Dulin, Littlejohn, and John Kugler, infielders; Johnson, Ratchford, and McConnell, outfielders.

CAPTAIN DAUGHERITY (Continued from page 1)

Daugherity's duties have been many and varied. In 1916, when stationed on the Mexican border with the National Guards, he
decided to enlist as a regular. During the World War he was for a while stationed in this country, after
which he was sent to France, arriving just before the close of the war. Abroad, he served for a while
in France and was for two years with the army of occupation in Germany. Just previous to his coming to
Davidson, he was at Fort Benning in the Infantry School for company commanders. The course which he plans to take
next year is a more advanced course and has to do more with field work. The Captain has been greatly
instrumental in bringing the local battalion to its present high standing by his services as disciplinary officer, instructor, and finally
as the head of the department. He has maintained the distinguished rating grade of work which was achieved by his
predecessor and has made marked improvements in all divisions of the work since his promotion to the rank of professor
of military science and tactics last year. "My stay at Davidson has been the most pleasant of all my duties,"
remarked Captain Daugherity, when interviewed about his work here. His loss will be keenly felt by the R. O. T.
C. department and by the student body as a whole, for in his four years of service here he has
made many friends, both among those with whom he has been closely connected in an official way and those who
have known him as the man he is.
