- Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN September 27, 1928.

Special Opportunities for History Study at Oxford
Degree Awarded in One Subject — Not in Several Different Courses

No American student who has found the study of history attractive and who feels inclined to “specialize” in it ought to fail to learn something of how history is and may be studied at Oxford. Such information should go far to confirm his decision about a specialty and to cause him to realize the desirability, either through a Rhodes Scholarship or otherwise, of pursuing this specialty at Oxford.

The American student knows, or soon learns, that the normal thing is to aim at the B.A. degree and that the B.A. degree is awarded at Oxford in one definite subject, instead of resulting from the completion of a certain number of “courses.” The student of history, therefore, in a majority of cases, will seek his B.A. in the Honour School of Modern History; and a graduate of an American university need have no fear that he will duplicate things which he has already “had.”

The Rhodes Scholar as a rule may expect to receive Senior standing. With this standing, he is not obliged to pass any entrance or intermediate examinations. He may thus begin at once his studies for the final examinations, or “schools,” working, with the guidance of his tutor, along lines determined by statute and by regulations of the board of the faculty of modern history.

The basis of the study is dual. The student must give his primary attention to the History of England and to General History. The difference is that all of the former must be studied, whereas, in the case of General History, special knowledge is demanded of only a relatively short period. This arrangement appears based on the principle that all of a thing should be mastered where circumstances permit, but that, where from the nature of the case this is less possible, mastery of a part is better than superficial knowledge of the whole. In addition to this, the wide choice possible in the matter of a period allows the student to consult his special interest. The earliest, and one of the longest, of the periods is 285-604. The last, 1789-1878, is the shortest and also the most popular.

In the case of the History of England, there is a dual subdivision. The continuous Constitutional History of England to the present day must be studied, careful attention being given to documents and a knowledge of Constitutional Law being also required. The continuous Political History to 1885 must also be studied; and again room is given for the special interest of the student, this time by the requirement that proficiency must be shown in some aspect of Political History such as biography of statesmen, literature or art, religious movements, foreign relations, and the like.

The study of English and General History must be supplemented in the first place by a knowledge of political and descriptive geography and in the second, in the case of those who seek the highest honors, by a careful study, with reference to original authorities, of a special subject. The latter requirement is still another case of opportunity for the student to consult his special interest. There is a list of a dozen or more of these special subjects, and it is even possible to secure consent for the study of a subject suggested by the student. The American student may well be interested in the American Revolution and the Reformation of the Federal Constitution 1760-1788, one of the listed subjects. Others, picked at random, are St. Augustine, the Crusades, the Italian Renaissance, British Colonial Policy 1830-1858, Political Economy, and Representative Government.

Finally, in addition to the above-mentioned subjects, a study must be made of Political Science and of Economic History with Economic Theory, though those who do not aim at the highest honors may omit one or the other. In the last place, if a student knows well French, German, Italian or Spanish, he may have an opportunity of displaying his proficiency and of receiving credit for it.

The School of Modern History has at Oxford perhaps the best established tradition after “Greats” (Classics). It offers opportunity of an excellent general education which should appeal not only to the specialist in history but to those interested in public affairs, politics, economics and the like.

The Rhodes Scholar with Senior standing may well “do schools” at the end of two years. He may then in his third year decide on one of several courses open to him, of which special mention may be made of the B.Litt. Degree. This is a research degree which makes it possible for a Rhodes Scholar to undertake research into some question in which he may become interested. If he can incorporate the results of his study into a satisfactory thesis, he will receive the degree. Other Rhodes Scholars will take the full three years for “schools;” but “schools” will be and ought to be the aim of the great majority. In a few special cases, the D.Phil. degree offers opportunity for advanced research. It is in general necessary to put in all three years in order to obtain the degree. The applicant is likely to meet with effective discouragement unless he has a definite course of study in mind; and he is in a much better position if he has already begun work on it.

Rhodes Scholarships are, of course, open for any field of study offered at the University of Oxford, and are tenable for three years. Men who are between the ages of 19 and 25 and who have reached their Sophomore year in college, may, at their convenience, apply either in the state in which they reside or in the state in which they attend college. A personal interview with a committee of selection is necessary, but no examination is required. Since there are but 32 appointments annually, each state holds an election two years out of three. Anyone who is interested may obtain further information from their college or from the American Secretary to the Rhodes Trustees, Frank Aydelotte, president of Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Penna.

CHAMBERS BUILDING NEARING COMPLETION

Working a crew of more than 50 men, several of whom were Davidson students, Blythe & Isenhour, general contractors of Charlotte, who have built Watts, East and West dormitories as well as the right wing of Chambers, have pushed the construction work forward on the new left wing and center from the excavation work that presented itself at the close of school to the present point of construction. In the left wing all the concrete has been poured for the three floors, the workmen are now completing this process on the roof; the floor struts are being put in place.Down, the tile walls that break the building up into rooms are being put up, and the basement is being cleared for concrete. This wing, when completed, will house some of the overflow from the completed right wing, all the sciences with the exception of Chemistry, and a few of the classes that, due to the present lack of room, have been forced to use temporary quarters.

The work on the center has not progressed so rapidly, but steel is on hand for the roof, and soon the concrete work will be started again in this section in preparation for the roof. The center, when completed, will contain a large dining room for alumni receptions and other gatherings, and the auditorium. The seating capacity of the latter will be around 1,200, and if the present plans of Dr. Martin are carried out, a very fine pipe organ will be a part of the equipment that he is buying for the graduation exercises in June. Included in the material necessary for the completion of the present construction are 40 cars of cut limestone, 800 cubic yards of crushed stone, 1,500 yards of sand, 12,000 pieces of hollow tile, 6,000 bleco blocks, and 900,000 bricks.

Although the outside work will soon be completed and the building from the exterior will appear completed, a great deal of interior work will have to be done before the building is complete. To quote the contractor, “This will take the time.” However, making due allowance for delays, it is hoped that the New Chambers, the heart and core of Davidson, will be ready at this time for the center and uncompleted wing.

CHAMELEON NOTICE

If there are any freshmen who are interested in working on the Chameleon, the Davidson College magazine, Browne McQueen would be glad to hear from them. The first issue is scheduled to come off the press on October 15th, and there is ample time for the consideration of any material submitted within the next two weeks. The Editor wants particularly to make the acquaintance of first-year men who are inclined to writing, but also would be glad to get the work of any upperclassman who has, or has not, hitherto made any contribution to the magazine. Material should be turned in as soon as possible, either to McQueen or to any of the associate editors.

Prospects For Good Band Appear Bright

Band to be Limited to Around Forty-Five Men This Year

Prospects for an excellent military band this year are very bright, according to Captain Elkins and Prof. B. J. Cullum. It is planned this year to reduce the number of pieces from approximately 55 to 45, eliminating the less skilled musicians. An efficient 45-piece band which can be taken in its entirety on the trips is the desired goal.

Beginning Tuesday, the 33 freshmen prospects will compete for places in the band. As there are a number of excellent musicians in the class, playing a wide variety of instruments, the band bids fair to be one of the best of its kind in the state. Though heretofore it has been necessary to develop a bass player, this year there even appears a candidate for this post. A drum and bugle corps will be developed which will alternate with the band on the weekly parades. In case the number warrants, there may also be a secondary band.

SECOND WEEK IN OCTOBER

(Continued from page 1)

The game with Wofford will be the diversion for the afternoon. C. M. Pratt, vice-president of the press group, J. R. Covington, H. A. Knox, W. L. Dumas, W. M. Powell, and W. B. McQueen, together with members of the staffs of various publications, are planning the meeting.

This morning Professor Woods conducted the services. Thad Broc, of the Sophomore class, will lead the exercises tomorrow morning, followed by Professor Foreman, Saturday. The cabinet officials are given in the order in which they will take charge of the exercises. This week, Nelson Myers; following weeks, W. E. Hill, R. O. Flinn, Covington, Long, Brown, Lake, Graham, McConnell, Fry, King, Kell, and Melton.

Interest Shown In R. O. T. C. By Cadets

R. O. T. C. Pointing For Fourth Successive Year of Distinguished Rating

Davidson is looking forward to a good and successful year for military training in 1928-29. For the past three years, the local unit has won distinguished rating. As this is the highest honor that the War Department can confer upon a military organization, students have become intensely interested in obtaining a very high degree of efficiency in military science. There have been increased efforts to induce every student to take pride in their respective organizations and to have some interest and earnestness in their R. O. T. C. work during the year.

The new cadet captains in each company for the coming term are as follows:
Company A—R. O. Glynn.
Company B—W. C. Archie.
Company C—R. M. Gant.
Company D—W. M. Regen.

In order to have a successful and most profitable year in military tactics, cooperation of each student is required, and it is only with this cooperation that Davidson will win distinguished rating again this year.

FINISHING TOUCHES MADE ON FRAT COURT

With the finishing touches being put on the fraternity court this week, the houses located there will be complete. They have been externally complete from the beginning of school, but due to delay in shipping of hardware, it was only the first of this week that all of the inside fittings were put in. There still remains quite a bit of work to be done to the grounds surrounding the court, such as grading the grounds and planting grass seed so that there will be a luxuriant sod there next fall. Work on the court was begun last spring around commencement time, and many predicted that the houses would never be ready in time for the opening of school.

The appearance of the court is much better than many had expected. In fact, many of the ones who were opposed to the change last spring have expressed themselves as more than satisfied with the situation as it now is. The eleven houses are all of similar design, being colonial in style. The brick for the houses was chosen to harmonize with the brick in the New Chambers building and Richardson Stadium. The houses have slate roofs, which go well with the red brick and the white woodwork on the outside. The inside walls are of terra cotta, with ivory finished woodwork. The floors are red oak, treated once with shellac and twice with wax.

Every house in the court varies in floor arrangement and general appearance. The similar features are that each house has two large rooms, a dressing room, and a kitchenette. They are heated by a central heating plant located under one of the houses. Three face Stadium Drive and the other eight are arranged in the shape of a horseshoe with the end of the shoe opening on Concord Avenue. A crushed rock road runs in front of the houses on the horseshoe, and each house is connected to the road by a stone dust walk. The final plans of the college include planting shrubbery in between the houses and several landscaping plans to beautify the court.

STUDENTS, ATTENTION!

Make a day’s wages for one hour's work after classes. No experience or investment necessary. We have an opening at Davidson College. Applications considered in order of receipt. Write today for free particulars. Bradford & Co., Inc., St. Joseph, Mich.

Synod To Meet For Discussion of Plans

In a statement made in the latest Christian Observer, Dr. Wm. J. Martin, president of the college, announced that a meeting for the Synod of North Carolina would be held at the First Presbyterian Church, in Greensboro, tomorrow, September 28. The purpose of the meeting is to discuss the problems of the church education and schools in the state and to study the report of Dr. Brown, who has been working under Dr. Henry H. Sweets. The meeting is called at 10 o'clock, a.m. Everyone is invited to be present who is in any way interested in the church’s educational program.

There has been no cut and dried program planned for the meeting.

Continental Motors has started making airplane motors now. Ford, Packard, and Auburn have been doing so for some time. General Motors will probably join in soon, since some of its leading men are very much interested in aviation.

Andrews Established 1890

Model 7-11

We guarantee a real THRILL when you see the New Victor Headliners. Come in—let us play these instruments for you—soon!

Andrews
235 North Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

COMES OUR FALL AD

Each fall we have to write the advertisement that makes everyone happy excepting the ad-man. We worried ... until ... finally it occurred to us to say something about “even the leaves are falling for the New Fall Braeburns”... you get the idea. One good fall deserves another.

$35 $40 $45