RELIGION should be the rule of life, not a casual incident of it. —Disraeli.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

FOOTBALL SATURDAY

DAVIDSON-ELON

RICHARDSON FIELD

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 4, 1928 No. 3

Rushing Season Closes Friday Night With the Pledging Forty Per Cent of Fresh Class Taken in

TWO WEEKS RUSHING

Two Juniors Also Pledged by Fraternities in Addition to Number of Freshmen

With the pledging on last Friday night of 91 men by the 11 national and local social fraternities here on
the Davidson campus, the 1928 rushing season was brought to a close. Carrying out the policy adopted by the Pan-Hellenic
Council last spring, the fraternities inaugurated an entirely new type of rushing season, only two weeks in duration and with
fewer restrictions on entertainment as compared to the old system of two months.

Although the rushing season was generally understood as ending Friday night, the actual rushing period closed at midnight on Thursday.
A “day of silence” was maintained, at the close of which freshmen receiving only one bid were free to go
to the house of their choice. Those receiving more than one bid held 30-minute conferences with a representative of the
fraternity bidding them before accepting an invitation.

It is of particular interest to note that of the 91 pledged out of a class of 230, three received
three bids, 17 two bids, and 71 a single invitation. Also to note the fact that 80 from a class
of 196 were pledged at the end of two months’ rushing last year as compared to the above figures. In
accordance with the Pan-Hellenic rules, no fraternity may officially extend additional bids until one week from last Friday night. After
this date, fraternities may extend bids at any time. The list of pledges will be found on page 6, column
3.

Dr. J. C. Rowan, ’04, Speaks at Vespers

An inspirational talk by Dr. J. C. Rowan, ‘04, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Concord, was the feature
of the third weekly Y. M. C. A. vesper service of the year, Sunday, September 30. The audience was also
favored by a special number of music, C. E. Brown and C. C. Orr playing the cello and violin, accompanied
by Paul Fry on the piano.

Dr. Rowan, former president of the Davidson Alumni Association, took as his text the 42nd verse of the 10th chapter
of Luke: “But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken from
her.” Though not directly stated, the central message of Dr. Rowan’s talk was putting first things first. A single statement,
though not characteristic of his usual style, expressed vividly the whole task of his thought: “Martha was putting pots and
pans before Jesus Christ.”

Opening his talk by referring to the emphasis of the opening phrase of his text, “but one thing,” Dr. Rowan
summoned many striking quotations from the Bible to bear witness to the fact that when “one thing” was mentioned it
invariably meant that one thing was paramount. Christ to the rich young ruler: “One thing thou lackest; go, sell whatsoever,...”
Paul: “But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which. . . .” Dr. Rowan said that as he
read this story his sympathy had always been with Martha. But a more systematic thought shows the fallacy of such
reasoning. Martha's love, though imperfect in form, is recognized as true, but it requires a reprimand, “One thing is needed.”
After explaining the situation into which Mary, Martha and Jesus were thrown, and Jesus’ solution to the problem, Dr. Rowan
proceeded to make a direct application of the principle to our present needs.

ST. CECILIA CLUB

At a meeting of the St. Cecilia Club, held after chapel last Thursday morning, R. B. Erckman, of Hendersonville, N.
C., was elected president of the club for the ensuing year, taking the place of Layton Mauze, who did not
return to school this year. At this meeting plans were formulated for social activities over Homecoming weekend.

Brohard to Head A. A. Until Currie Returns

Return of Currie, President-Elect of A. A., in Spring is Doubtful

T. W. Brohard was appointed to act as president of the Athletic Association, last Monday night in a meeting of
the Athletic Association. This designation was made because of the failure of the elected president to return to school. John
Currie, track star, was elected head of the Athletic Association last spring in the regular elections. He failed to return
to school this fall and thus left the association without a head.

Monday night the Athletic Council met to decide upon a course of action to be taken. At this meeting the
problem was discussed as to whether to elect a new president or whether to designate someone to act in his
stead. Because of the fact that Brohard was elected first vice-president of the association last spring it was decided to
appoint him as president pro-tem until the return of John Currie. In the event that Currie does not return after
the first semester, Brohard will act as president until the spring elections, when a new man will be elected to
the head of the association from the rising senior class.

This is one of the few times that a man holding a high office has failed to return to college
following his election. The captain-elect of the football team also failed to come back to Davidson this year. The Athletic
Council that appointed Brohard was composed of the officers of the varsity teams at Davidson.

PRELIMINARIES FOR STATE CONTEST TO BE HELD HERE OCT. 25

Oratorical Contest to be Held in Both College and High Schools

SPONSORED BY LEGION

Finals to be Held on November 5th When Awards of Loving Cup and Cash Prizes Will be Made

The State Oratorical Contest sponsored by the American Legion is to be held in the colleges and high schools of
the state during the month of October. The subject is “The Duty of the Voter,” and is a part of
the Legion's drive to get every voter to vote in the presidential election as well as in other political races.
It is the hope of the Legion in this that each local post will offer a prize to the winner
of the college contest and thus create more interest in it.

The place is as yet undecided for the state contest, but it will be held in some centrally located city,
probably Raleigh. The time set for this is November 5. At 2:00 p.m. on this day the preliminaries will be
held and the five best men chosen. At 8:00 p.m. that night the winner will be chosen from one of
these five. A loving cup or medal and a cash award will be the winner's prize. All chosen for the
finals will probably receive some kind of medal and the first three will receive cash awards.

All colleges entering must hold a preliminary contest before October 29 and send in the name of the winner at
that time. The contest at Davidson will be about October 25. The time limit is 15 minutes.

(Continued on page 3)

Requests From Other Colleges and Charlotte Firms Necessitate Change

Requests from colleges throughout the state and from Charlotte firms who are to assist in entertaining the North Carolina Press
Convention when it is held here, have been so urgent that the date previously announced as October 11, 12, and
13 be changed that the local committee has complied with these and set November 1, 2, and 3 as the
time.

Conflicting engagements at the University of North Carolina, and other places make it inconvenient for attendance at the meeting if
held next week. The American Photo Engravers Association is to be held in Cleveland on October 10, 11 and 12,
and this would make it impossible for engravers who are interested in the local meeting to attend.

Committees are at work on the program here and at Queens College and reports point toward a very successful meeting.
The additional two weeks time will enable those in charge to make more definite plans and will allow for changes
and improvements in the general program. Charles Pratt, vice-president of the association is in charge of the general program while
Miss Jean Craig at Queens and Aubrey Brown at Davidson are assisting at their respective colleges. Davidson arrangements are under
the direction of H. A. Knox, registration, W. B. McQueen, and R. F. Jarratt, entertainment, W. M. Powell, finance, W.
L. Dumas, reception, and F. D. Miller, publicity.

FIVE CONTESTS FOR FRESHMEN

The “Wildkitten” football schedule for this year remains the same as last year’s schedule with but one exception. Asheville High
School has been substituted for P. C. The schedule includes five games, only two of which will be played at
Davidson. Last year the schedule was vice-versa as three games were played on the local gridiron and in only two
instances were the Davidson yearlings called on to invade foreign territory.

Four of the five games will be played in North Carolina, allowing the freshmen an opportunity to pit themselves against
an out-of-state team only when they march against the Wofford youngsters on October 19. The complete schedule follows:

Oct. 5—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
Oct. 19—Wofford Fresh at Spartanburg, S. C.
Nov. 2—Duke Fresh at Davidson.
Nov. 9—N. C. State Fresh at Raleigh.
Nov. 24—Asheville High School at Asheville.

NOTICE TO SENIORS

The Annual staff is very anxious to get the senior biographies in as soon as possible. Each senior is urged
to get some man to write this biography of about 225 words and hand it in to either R. A.
Boggess or J. R. Covington. Work on the Annual will be made much easier if these biographies can be gotten
in right away. Seniors entitled to sponsorsare urged to make arrangements to get these in by Thanksgiving. There are only
two requirements about these pictures and they are that they be at least eight by ten inches in size and
of plain finish, not tinted.

The staff will appreciate it if the seniors involved will take notice of these two announcements. The Editor.

JAZZ AND SYMPHONY TRYOUTS COMPLETED
Nine Men on Sunnyland Serenaders—Symphony Orchestra to Have Eleven

In the tryouts completed Monday night, the jazz orchestra was picked from a large number of aspirants. This year the
jazz orchestra, or under its official title, the Sunnyland Serenaders, will be composed of the following men: J. H. Ramseur,
saxophone; I. C. Geer, trumpet and director; J. Thompson, saxophone; B. Griffin, saxophone; R. Orr, trombone; K. P. Mattox, drums;
C. J. Albright, banjo; J. G. Johnson, piano; and C. C. Orr, trumpet and violin.

Five of these men played in the jazz orchestra last year, the other four have all had experience in the
musical line as a member of one of many musical organizations, the fourth man is as yet untried. The “Sunnyland
Serenaders” as given above will make all Glee Club trips as part of the Glee Club, appearing in a prominent
place on the program. Three of the old members of the orchestra were on the jazz orchestra that toured Europe
this last summer, they are B. H. O. Geer, C. J. Albright, and A. J. Thompson. The other two men
that were in the jazz orchestra at this time are not in school this year, one graduating, the other having
quit school.

Another orchestra that is part of the Glee Club is the Symphony Orchestra, this organization has only been in the
club since the arrival of Professor Cullum here as the head of the Musical Department. Last year it was given
one of the leading places on the program of the club, and Professor Cullum has expressed himself as being very
well pleased with the performances that it has given. At the conclusion of the tryouts last week a tentative orchestra
was picked, but there were still places open on it to men of talent. The tentative orchestra as announced is
composed of C. J. Albright, violin; A. G. Foard, violin; C. C. Orr, violin; C. H. DuBose, violin; (Continued on
page 5)

Harper Cup Won by Local K. A. Chapter
Three Fraternities Have Averages of Over Eighty-Six

The James C. Harper cup, awarded at Davidson to the national fraternity having the highest scholastic average, was awarded to
the Kappa Alpha Fraternity for 1928-29. The average of the local chapter of Kappa Alpha was 86.88 per cent. Beta
Theta Pi was a close runner-up with an average of 86.56, while Sigma Alpha Epsilon was not far away with
86.41. The other national fraternities which followed were: Kappa Sigma, 86.12; Pi Kappa Alpha, 85.42; Theta Upsilon Omega, 85.26; Phi
Gamma Delta, 84.80, and Pi Kappa Phi, 83.71. There were slightly more than three points difference between the highest and
lowest percentages.

Although the local fraternities are not eligible for the cup, their averages are given here: Delta Theta Chi, 85.24; Pyramid
Club, 84.23, and Sigma Delta, 82.73. Pyramid and Sigma Delta averages were for the second term only. The winners for
the past four years are Phi Gamma Delta, 24-25, Pi Kappa Alpha, 25-26; Beta Theta Pi, 26-27, and Kappa Alpha,
27-28.

Clemson Tigers Defeat ‘Cats’ by 6 to 0 Score in Close Game Saturday

Debating Team Will Have Full Schedule
Three Debates Already Scheduled for Team by Forensic Council

Three debates for the varsity team have already been definitely arranged for, according to an announcement made Monday night by
Lawrence Dumas, president of the Forensic Council. The debates scheduled so far are: University of Alabama, here; William and Mary
College, there; and the University of Richmond, there. No dates have been set for these debates, but they will be
settled within a short time.

The varsity team will make two long trips this year to invade foreign schools, and in addition to these trips
the team will make several short trips to various nearby colleges and universities. The first important trip will be in
Virginia territory. The team will go to the University of Richmond, the William and Mary College, and a tentative debate
with Washington and Lee University is being scheduled. The date for this trip has not been set, but will be
given as soon as complete arrangements have been made.

A second trip is being planned for Tennessee, the team, if it goes through Tennessee, will probably debate with the
University of the South, the University of Tennessee, and Vanderbilt University. Four or five teams will be chosen to make
the different trips and it was stated that each team would probably have at least two debates. At present the
tentative plans call for only four teams to be met. They are the University of Alabama, the University of Florida,
the (Continued on page 3)

Leaders Urge Synod School Correlation
Nearly Hundred Men and Women Attend Meeting Held in Greensboro

Presbyterian educational leaders urge Synodical correlation of the nine institutions of the Synod of North Carolina at a meeting held
in Greensboro Friday, September 28. Nearly one hundred men and women, each one a faculty member, trustee, or president of
the various schools, met and voted to ask the Synod of North Carolina to consider steps toward this correlation as
far as possible for the sake of financial support and control.

Action urging that the coming Synod, to convene at Maxton next month, take steps to provide adequate pastoral oversight for
the one thousand boys and girls now attending state institutions at Raleigh, Chapel Hill, Greenville, and Greensboro. A survey taken
by Dr. B. Warren Brown, under the direction of a committee of which Dr. Henry H. Sweets, Secretary of Christian
Education and Relief, is chairman, brought to the front facts of interest to the secondary schools and colleges. He brought
out the fact that the survey was not made in an effort to place state and church education in a
competitive relationship, but a cooperative one, and that the effort had been solely to determine the load to be carried
by the church. Dr. Brown states that it would take $1,250,000 to put all the institutions on the standard basis
of the Southern Association of Schools and Colleges, taking perhaps five or ten years at the rate of present growth.
To meet the situation he proposed the Synod as a better basis of control than the Presbytery. The Presbyterian Educational
Association introduced and proposed that this be done as an expression of the sense of the gathering as the final
action adopted. Leaving the way open for the Synod next month to request the Presbyteries, who now legally own and
control all but the proposed institutions at Maxton, to agree to relinquish their control to the Synod.

Institutions involved are: Davidson College, Queens College of Charlotte, Peace Institute at Raleigh, Mitchell College at Statesville, and the three
secondary schools, Albemarle Normal and Industrial Institute at Albemarle, Elise High School at Hemp, and Glade Valley School at Glade
Valley. (Continued on page 3)

Aerial Route Used by Clemson to Score in Third
D. C. LINE HOLDS WELL
Ball in Davidson Territory During Whole Game—Flinn, Black, and Brock Shine

The Clemson Tigers resorted to an aerial attack to give the Davidson Wildcats their first defeat of the season, winning
the game by a 6-0 score. For two periods the Tiger and Wildcat machines clawed at each other with Davidson
on the defense the majority of the time. Neither team could do much gaining against the other, punting being the
main form of attack. In this department Clemson had the better punter and gained each time on the exchange.

In the third period the superior weight of the Clemson players began to tell on the lighter Davidson team. During
this period the Red and Black outfit fought with their backs to the wall as Clemson was within scoring distance
on several different occasions. The Tigers advanced the ball to Davidson's four-yard line only to be held for downs on
the next four plays. It was a wonderful stand by the fighting ‘Cats, for it seemed that nothing would stop
the Clemson team from scoring. Brock punted from behind his goal line, placing the ball on Davidson's 30-yard line in
Clemson’s possession. A perfectly executed pass, McMillan to Asbill, crossed the Davidson goal line for the only score of the
game.

Clemson headed for another touchdown when the game ended. Intercepting a pass on his own 40-yard line, R. McMillan started
with a 24-yard end skirmish. This same back alternated with McCarty to place the ball on Davidson's 14-yard line, first
down and 10 to go, but here the game ended. The game was full of thrills, with the holding of
the Davidson line furnishing most of them. There were few sensational dashes, Flinn’s return of the initial kickoff of 39
yards being the longest run of the game.

Outstanding in the Clemson backfield were the two McMillans, who with McCarty did the ground gaining for the Tigers. In
the line, a massive 225-pound tackle named Hall brushed aside the Davidson defense to throw the Wildcat backs for losses.

To try and pick a star for Davidson is difficult as the whole team deserves credit for their work. Flinn
did some excellent defensive work in breaking up attempted Clemson passes. Black's great backing up of Davidson's line was fine,
and the sensational playing of Brock, left end, are worthy of mention.

The lineup and summary:
Davidson (0) Clemson (6)
Position.
Brock Left End
Archie Left Tackle
Harper Left Guard
(Continued on page 3)

Innovations Adopted by Senior Year Book

“Quips and Cranks” for 1929 will embody a number of enlargements and improvements over preceding annuals. Work is being done
all the time on this publication, the staff keeping in view the purpose of making it a true representation of
Davidson life.

The number of pages will be increased from 300 to 325. The color scheme is red and black. The lettering
on the cover will be in gold, and the cover decoration will be a sketch of the new Chambers building.
The editor is planning to use some original ideas in the makeup of the annual. This design is now finished,
and is in the hands of the cover designers. The theme is built up around the completion of new Chambers,
and its importance in the progress of Davidson. The book will be in five divisions; the head of each division
will be in tan with the sketches in red and black. Margins throughout the book will be gray.

The staff hopes to put out the best annual possible. A call will soon be given to freshmen and sophomores
who wish to do work of this nature. The senior editors and the departments (Continued on page 4)
