THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1928

FEATURES RETIRING EDITOR
(Continued from page 1)

team for three years, he recently brought additional honor to himself and his college by winning the North Carolina Collegiate title at the Sedgefield Country Club of Greensboro.

Boyce Martin has been a consistent student with a display of exceptional ability along literary lines. Not only has this been the case in classrooms but as poetry editor of The Chameleon and as one of the leading actors and dramatic writers of the college. His abilities have been recognized away from his “home country” as he holds the position of secretary-treasurer of the Southern Students Association. He is in attendance at the annual meeting at the University of Alabama at the present time. Martin is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social, and his home is Atlanta, Ga. His honors listed in Quips and Cranks should contain the following: Omicron Delta Kappa, Omega Phi Alpha, Sigma Upsilon, Delta Pi Kappa, I. R. C., Reporters Club, Red and Black Masquers, Student Council, “Y” Cabinet, Golf Team, secretary Y. M. C. A., President Junior Class, athletic editor Quips and Cranks, poetry editor The Chameleon, editor-in-chief The Davidsonian, Sanity Rare staff, chairman Junior Week Committee, assistant manager basketball, Golden Quill, etc., etc., ad infinitum.

COVINGTON TO EDIT
(Continued from page 1)

Cranks has not yet been chosen, but Covington expects to complete the selection of men for the various positions in a short time. R. C. Grady is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity and one of the junior cheer-leaders. He is also a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fraternity. J. L. Ely is a member of Delta Theta Chi fraternity and a wearer of the cross-country “D.” G. A. Fry is past president of the State Student Volunteer Association.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

FELLOWS!
You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

HERE WE REST
There is always upon college campus some spot that is hallowed by romantic memories. Davidson is no exception, for upon the campus rests the far-famed China-Berry tree. It has been the custom for years past for the enamored youth and his lady friend to walk slowly by the tree and perhaps rest beneath its concealing shadows, with only flickers of moonlight to filter through. But back of every tradition there is a reason and the present tradition of the China-Berry tree is in vast contrast to the original meaning of its being.

Back in the “good old days”When the Freshman was a thing to be hidden from the evil eye of the Sophomore, there was a quaint old custom of “bumping” the Freshmen. The campus presents concrete benches all over, and thus the beneficent moon has caused the old tradition to pass and a newer and kinder sentiment to be attached.

And now, little children, Uncle Dinwiddie has to go to bed, and if you are good, in the next issue he will tell you of some of the strange anecdotes that have grown up around the tree. Good-night.

Things had come to a bad pass, the treatment of the Freshmen had become worse and worse each year. Finally, the class of 1899 decided to revolt. Accordingly, on the fateful night, a group of the doomed Freshmen gathered together at a low bush where they laid on the ground to escape detection. Before the night passed away, they were found and attacked. Finding there were too many Freshmen, the Sophomores tried to bring them out one by one. This the Freshmen resisted, and when one of them was dragged forth, the class would rally around and rescue or protect him. The night finally passed, as it was wont to do in those days, and the day dawned upon a victorious Freshman class that lay exhausted around a small tree or rather bush, and on all sides, there lay stretched out in mortal fear the remains of the once mighty Sophomore class.

(Continued from page 1)
Personal Work—Mac King.
World Evangelism—Bob Kell.
Sunday School—Glen Frye.
Freshman Work—Riggs McConnell.
Handbook—W. K. Pritchett.
Vocational Guidance—Bob Covington.
Weekly Meetings—Monroe Gilmour.
Deputations—F. R. Brown.
Attendance—Z. V. Long.
Chapel Services—Nelson Myers.
Social Service—DeWitt Helm.
Boys’ Work—Reid Graham.
Church Relations—Dick Flinn.

(Reproduced by Courtesy of America’s Humor)
One of the Smith Brothers meets the manufacturer of “Old Gold” cigarettes. Blindfolded in a scientific test of leading cigarettes, Photograph of James Montgomery Flagg, taken in his studio while the test was being made.

How Test Was Made
The subject was blindfolded, and, in the presence of two responsible witnesses, was given one each of the four leading cigarettes to smoke. To clear the taste, coffee was served before each cigarette. Mr. Flagg was entirely unaware of the identity of these cigarettes during the test. After smoking the four cigarettes, Mr. Flagg was asked to designate by number his choice. He promptly replied, “Number 2,” which was OLD GOLD.

After this test, Mr. Flagg wrote: “Most of us smoke names and think we are smoking cigarettes! The blindfold test proved that to me. It proved also that it is difficult to tell one cigarette from another... except in the case of OLD GOLD... I spotted that—it suited me best even blindfolded. In fact, the man who said ‘not a cough in a carload’ knew whereof he spoke. It’s the smoothness that identifies OLD GOLD. It needs no other trademark.”

JAMES MONTGOMERY FLAGG—Nationally known artist and creator of the famous Flagg girl.