7

her husband.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1928

N.C.C.W. Presents “The Silver Cord”

The dramatic department of N.C.C.W. brought the theater production, “The Silver Cord,” presented by the Theater Guild Repertory Company, from
the Theater Guild of New York, to Greensboro for a performance Friday, February 24th. It was presented to a large
audience in the college auditorium; the event was a striking success.

The play, by Sidney Howard, deals with the mother-and-son problem in a family where the mother, rich and widowed, lavishes
on her two sons all the romance and affection for which she has never found release with her husband. So
smothering is her love that the eldest son has to go 3,000 miles away from home to marry, and the
youngest sows a crop of wild oats. The mother strives to keep for herself the boyish love of her sons,
now grown men. But her own love has long since become a highly developed form of selfishness, and the inevitable
tragedy occurs. The younger son is recaptured from his fiancée at terrible cost; the elder son is definitely lost after
his wife has exposed her professional motherhood.

Mr. Howard has devoted talents of a high order to this theme; it is a thoughtful study, written mainly in
lines more distinguished for their clarity than for sparkle. The work of the company deserves much praise. “The Silver Cord”
was presented by the whole group rather than by individual players, and it was an achievement.

Glee Club Returns From Trip Through Southland

Concerts Given at Atlanta, Anderson, Gaffney, and Gastonia

musicians designate as an attraction extraordinary in Emily Berger Cullum, well-known contralto of Chicago and one of America’s foremost oratorio
and concert contraltos, to their roster. One glimpse of the program is all the assurance one needs of a most
profitable and pleasing evening.

Forty members of the organization made the trip in two new parlor-car buses which had been booked by Limestone College,
then to Gastonia, where they gave their final performance of the trip Tuesday night. As the feature attraction of their
programs, Mrs. Emily Berger Cullum, wife of the director of the club, presented numbers which were received with great acclaim
at each place. Atlanta papers as well as the press of the other cities were loud in their praise of
the Glee Club for the quality of the performance, the variety of the program, and the general excellence of the
organization.

Polly Peachtree, Atlanta Society Editor, says: “At least, they shall not die of ennui, awful boredom, those persons to whom
Lent comes NOT as a season of spiritual refreshment, for the present week-end furnishes several diverting and interesting things to
brighten the gray days of Lent. These run the gamut from sedate readings, official teas and dinners, to the ‘Ball
of the Nations,’ a brilliant fancy dress affair, to gladden the hours of Friday evening.

“Davidson College’s Glee Club, always welcome in Atlanta for the high quality of its entertainment as well as for the
fact that its program shows always so many Atlanta boys appearing among the college singers and musicians, is planning to
entertain a capacity house this evening in the auditorium of Atlanta Woman’s Club. This year the singing collegians have provided
what skilled musicians designate as an attraction extraordinary in Emily Berger Cullum, well-known contralto of Chicago and one of America’s
foremost oratorio and concert contraltos, to their roster. One glimpse of the program is all the assurance one needs of
a most profitable and pleasing evening.”

vice-presidents of that organization, will be a good drawing card for the meeting which is to be held in Shearer
Hall on Wednesday night at 7 o’clock, just preceding the Athletic Night program. Judge John J. Parker, United States circuit
court judge for this district and a nationally famous lawyer and judge, will speak on “The Judiciary and Ethical Viewpoint
of Law.” Because of conflicting engagements, the fourth speaker of this group will not be here until the following week
on Thursday night. This speaker is Judge J. H. Marion, chief counsel for the Duke Power Company. Judge Marion will
discuss “Corporation Law” in the Y rooms at 7:30 o’clock. This is the fifth week of the Vocational Guidance series
of meetings and follows discussions concerning the Ministry, Business, and Journalism. Following Law will come Education and Medicine.

Noted Chemical Engineer to Speak

On Friday night of this week, the Vocational Guidance School will be addressed by Mr. Peter S. Gilchrist, who is
a noted chemical engineer. He is president of the Charlotte Construction Company, which installs chemical plants throughout the South. Mr.
Gilchrist comes to us highly recommended because of his experience in this field. He is one of the few men
in the South who is a member of the F.R.C.S.

Next week, Law will be the vocation discussed. Mr. S. Clay Williams, chief attorney for the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company,
will give an address in Shearer Hall on Wednesday night, March 14th, at 7:00 p.m. Mr. Williams is an alumnus
of Davidson who has been very successful in the law field. Lawyers representing civil, criminal, and corporation law will talk
on Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday nights. Announcements will be made later as to which department will be discussed on the
various nights.

Education and medicine will be discussed the last week. The committee in charge

Coombs—“Did she have a

Todgson—"I don’t know whether it was your wife or not. I don't know her very well.”short dress?” I would feel
completed if any student would suggest some field that has not been discussed. It would be glad to co-operate and
try to obtain someone experienced in the line suggested. Any suggestions about the Vocational Guidance School will be appreciated. This
is the first year that the Davidson “Y” has tried to put on such a big affair and if all
will work together the “Y” feels sure that the school next year will be much better with the experience from
this year.

Life at C. M.T. C. in Pictures Here

Through the courtesy of its management, there will be shown at the Davidson Theater this week and also in the
near future two moving pictures portraying life in C. M. T. C. camps. These pictures are to be shown for
the purpose of advertising the Citizens Military Training Camps, which are organized and operated by the War Department of the
United States Government.

The first picture of one reel is entitled “Young America Preferred.” It will be shown both at the afternoon and
evening shows on Friday, March 9th. About the second week in May, another C. M. T. C. picture will be
shown, entitled “Making Better Citizens.” According to Captain Daugherty, the commanding army officer of the Davidson R. O. T. C.
battalion, these pictures are expected to be very instructive as well as amusing, giving a real insight into life at
a C. M. T. C., and he urges that all who possibly can make a point of seeing them.

Next week—Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday—the Glee Club will fill an engagement with the Carolina Theater of Charlotte, having been engaged
following a tryout which was held here three weeks ago when the manager of the amusement place came over to
offer criticisms and suggestions concerning the program. The members will leave the college each day following morning classes and return
that night following the final performance.

Prominent Lawyers Are Secured For Talks Here

Different Phases of Law to be Discussed Next Week

For the fifth week of the Vocational Guidance Series, Y officials have provided four prominent lawyers to discuss different phases
of “Law as a Life Work.” Criminal law, the judiciary, and ethical viewpoints, corporation law, and the general field of
law will be presented by eminent jurists of this section.

Tuesday night, Mr. P. W. Glidewell, a noted attorney of Reidsville, N. C., will speak on the subject of “Criminal
Law.” Mr. Glidewell is a prominent man in the affairs of Reidsville and ranks high in law.

AN INVITATION!

You are cordially invited to attend on March 13, 1928, from five until nine o’clock P. M., the opening of
our new home, equipped with every modern facility to render complete and adequate Banking, Trust, and Insurance Service.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
M. B. SPEIR, JR. (’26)
McALISTER CARSON (’13) Mer.

Beginners’ Golf Outfits. We offer a set of four Clubs and Canvas Bag for $8.50. We restring Tennis Racquets.

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

S&W Cafeterias are catering to you
CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE
(ATLANTA Soon)
ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

AN ADDITION TO CAMEL SMOKE-LORE

We submit the sad case of the freshman in zoology, who, when asked to describe a camel, said, “A camel
is what you wish you were smoking while you try to think of the right answers.” He flunked zoology—but he
knew his cigarettes. For in time of trial or time of joy, there’s no friend like Camels. The subtle influences
of choice tobaccos upon the smoke-spots of mankind have been carefully studied, identified, and blended smoothly into Camels—the finest of
cigarettes. And we'll bet an alkaflitch on this: Camels have the “fill-fullment” every experienced smoker seeks. Got an alkaflitch you
want to lose?

©1928 R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N.C.
