THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 4, 1928

OLDEST GRADUATE LED MILITARY LIFE

Picture in upper left-hand corner shows Mr. J. J. Stringfellow, oldest living graduate of Davidson College, as he appeared in the military uniform of a Confederate soldier in the War Between the States. To the right is Mr. Stringfellow as he appeared on the eve of his graduation from Davidson in the spring of 1860. In the upper left is a recent photograph of Mr. Stringfellow, showing him as he looks today at the age of 91 years. Lower left is a photograph of Mr. Stringfellow and his brother, William, 85 years old, who is also an alumnus of Davidson, class of 1866, and is living near Chester. Photograph on lower right shows Mr. Stringfellow and an associate in front of the drug store, which he operated until recent years.

J. J. Stringfellow, Oldest Living Graduate, Tells Of His Experiences As Soldier

Was Member of Confederate Army and Was One of First to Hear of Lee’s Surrender

It is singularly appropriate that the article relative to Mr. J. J. Stringfellow, should carry among its alumni items a military edition of The Davidsonian. Mr. Stringfellow, class of '60, oldest living graduate of the college, and a man whose military record during the War Between the States justifies particular emphasis in this edition. Mr. Stringfellow, a resident of Chester, S. C., has passed the ninety-year mark, and is the charming embodiment of all the virtues that southerners like to attribute to veterans of the Confederate army. His stately bearing, reminiscent of army days, his gentle manners and his firm but kindly will are eloquent testimonials to the value of military life.

Entering Davidson College in 1856, Mr. Stringfellow remained to graduate with honor in the spring of 1860. His plans to study medicine were interrupted by the advent of war. He was among the first of the sons of Davidson to answer the call for volunteers, enlisting in the Confederate infantry on the day Fort Sumter was taken and remained in the service until the demobilization of the southern troops following Lee’s surrender at Appomattox Courthouse in 1864. He was twice wounded. On the occasion of his first injury, he was ordered to return to his home where he remained for five months. Immediately upon recovery, however, he hurried back to join his companions of the army. He was a member of one of the Confederate brigades stationed near Richmond at the time General Lee surrendered. Mr. Stringfellow tells of the occasion as follows:

“After many weeks of steady fighting we were ordered to move into a position near Richmond, where we were to await further orders before uniting with the forces that were located in that city. Our commander had ordered us to fall out along the roadway and to prepare our rifles and bayonets for an attack. While we were scattered out along the road, a messenger rode up on horseback, and announced that General Lee had surrendered. We could not believe his statement, and it was whispered along the line that he was a traitor who was attempting to create disorder among our troops. Some of the men in our brigade grew violent and wanted to kill the man. ‘Hang him’ was the cry that went up and down the line. Two or three of the men advanced on the fellow, and were about to drag him from his horse (and probably to his death) when General Lee himself rode up. He held up his hand to command the attention of the men. In a voice that was firm, but in which there sounded a note of pathos, he told us of the surrender. ‘I have done what I consider the best thing for the South,’ he declared. ‘You have been good soldiers. All I ask is that you go quietly to your homes and set about rebuilding those sections which have been destroyed by war.’ We promised that we would.”

Mr. Stringfellow’s war service and the exemplary records of other Davidson alumni during the War Between the States was not the first manifestation of interest in military affairs among students of the college. As early as November, 1853, the Davidson students had been granted permission to establish a military unit. Permission was granted as a result of the following petition, submitted by the students:

“The students of Davidson College, having formed a military company for the purpose of exercising themselves in military tactics, and for their own benefits in other respects. We the officers, of said company, do petition the faculty for permission to use arms and drill three times a week, namely, Tuesday and Thursday mornings a half hour before breakfast and on Saturday evening. The arms to be placed under their care; we submitting to their direction as required by the laws of the College.”

This petition was passed by the Trustees and received the unanimous endorsement of the teachers. Another similar unit was authorized in 1877.

Salisbury Theatre Books Famous FilmAt the Strand Theater, of Salisbury, there will be presented Easter Monday and Tuesday Cecil B. DeMille’s motion picture, Life of Christ, under the title of “The King of Kings”—a work of such magnitude and of much interest to the Christian public. Begun with prayer, the filming has been always reverent and oftentimes inspired. It almost seemed as if a special Providence fended off mishaps and allowed the orderly progress of the work without interruption. Incident to it were the building of vast architectural reconstructions, notably the Second Temple, the streets of the Via Dolorosa, the jagged ravines and Hill of Calvary, the Hall of Pilate, the towers and turrets of Jerusalem. For use in the structures or in the outdoor scenes, ten thousand archaeologically correct properties were devised, bought, or used. All the California studios—at the behest of Will H. Hays, president of the Motion Picture Producers and Distributors—lent of their resources. Eminent players from many companies vied for the parts. As an indication of the size of the work, no less than 550 actors have named-character roles, thereby portraying hundreds of New Testament characters that readers of the Gospels have longed to visualize; whilst the great “ensemble” or mass scenes have enlisted as many as 5,000 people.

Two Frosh Debate Teams Are Chosen

An affirmative team composed of R. E. Witt and C. B. MacKethan with F. G. Jenkins as alternate, and a negative team composed of A. R. Bird and J. C. Matthews with C. A. Sisson as alternate was chosen last Tuesday night out of a field of fourteen men to represent the freshmen as their debating team. The question for the debate was, Resolved: “That the McNary-Haugen Bill Should be Enacted into Federal Legislation.” One of the two teams will meet the Carolina freshmen and the other will more than likely meet the Duke freshman team. Definite arrangements have been made with Carolina for the meet and negotiations are being carried on with Duke for a debate although no definite arrangements have been made as yet.

Personal

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Huffstetler, of Gastonia, announce the birth of a daughter, Ann Elizabeth. Mr. Huffstetler was a member of the class of 1923.

Capt. Jno. S. Moore, '15, who is now on duty in the Philippine Islands, recently won the Philippine Islands golf championship, defeating Capt. Kendall Fielder, an Atlanta boy, in the finals at Manila.

Capt. F. M. Mack, ’10, was recently re-elected superintendent of the schools in Fort Mill, S. C., district.

Rev. W. S. Patterson, '03, of Clover, S. C., will again tour Europe this summer, leaving in June. He went abroad three years ago and will continue research work started at that time.

Among recent alumni visitors to the campus were D. M. McComb, '25, of Hickory; R. C. Aiken, ’23, of Charleston, S. C.; H. G. Goodykoontz, ’27, of Wilmington; J. B. Hunter, '24, of New York; Ralph McMillan, ’26, Barium Springs; P. O. Bethea, ’22, of New York.

W. J. Richards, ’23, is with the Cannon Mills, Kannapolis; C. L. Denniston, '23, with the Standard Oil Co., Charleston, S. C.; W. A. McAulay, ’25, with Bradstreet Co., Greensboro; and James McCutchen, ’23, with the Aetna Life Insurance Co., Spartanburg, S. C.

It is hoped by the Forensic Council that it will be possible to arrange a triangular debate between the three teams of the institutions. The question for the fresh debates will be the same that has been used by the varsity this year, namely, Resolved, “That the United States Shall Cease to Protect by Armed Force Property in Foreign Territory, Except After Formal Declaration of War.” The fourteen men that tried out for the debating teams were J. G. Berry, Claude Farrell, P. W. Glidewell, W. A. Mason, Wm. Rembert, S. S. Wiley, O. B. Long, and D. F. Murphy. The judges were Henry Powell, president of the Forensic Council, Bob Grady, and Frank Hall.

WINNERS OF THE

The May College Humor on Your $375, sounds

The pick of the 10,000 drawings by 1,589 artists appear April first. Don’t miss it.

A member of the COLLEGE HUMOR European Tour returns to the Campus.

The way he speaks familiarly of Bond Street, Folies Bergère, Limehouse. Oscar has been to Europe. Everybody goes, and Oscar picked the tour of them all. College Humor’s—with a college jazz band, famous writers, athletes, artists from twenty different campuses. A hundred new friends, a broader outlook on life, a changed man. Oscar has been to Europe!

2,000 ART Contest complete in this number. College Humor’s Collegiate Tour to Europe 1050 No. LaSalle St., Chicago—Dept. CN3 twenty-nine of four countries, all expenses paid for