Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN November 22, 1928

ALUMNI NEWS

Many Alumni Trek Back To College Campus For Home-Coming Day Event

Over Five Hundred Former Students Return for Special Exercises

FULL DAY’S PROGRAM

Alumni Luncheon Served to Three Hundred Men in Gymnasium at 1 o’Clock

There is no accurate or definite way in which to determine the exact number of Davidson College alumni who returned to the campus last Saturday for the annual Homecoming celebration, but it is estimated that fully 500 former students of the college turned their footsteps toward their Alma Mater for this occasion. A noteworthy fact was the larger number who registered during the early morning hours.

Beginning in the morning at 11:15 o'clock with an R. O. T. C. parade on Sprunt Field, the alumni had a full day's program that did not end until the final curtain on the stunt night performance in Shearer Hall at 9:30 o'clock that night. During the entire day the college was host to the men who had attended the institution, and expressions of gratification late Saturday afternoon and that night have led to the belief by alumni officials that it was an eventful day for the alumni. The handling of the crowd had been systematized, and no unusual confusion resulted.

Immediately following the military parade were exercises at the stadium, which were presided over by Rev. John McSween, '08, president of the Presbyterian College of South Carolina. Dr. W. J. Martin, '88, president of Davidson, welcomed the visitors; Dr. C. K. Brown, ’21, associate professor of economics, read a list of 25 names of alumni who had died during the past year, and Col. A. L. Gaston, '96, of Chester, S. C., made the principal address. This was interspersed with the singing of “College Ties” and “O, Davidson.”

Over 300 alumni adjourned to the Alumni Gymnasium at 1:00 o'clock, where they were served lunch. A feature of this affair was the playing of the Lenoir High School Band, winner of last year’s high school contest among such organizations, who not only added color to this event, but assisted the local band in entertaining the crowd at the football game with musical numbers.

The principal event of the day was the football game in the afternoon between the University of North Carolina and Davidson. While alumni saw their Wildcats accept a 30 to 7 defeat, they were by no means unsatisfied with the performance of the eleven, which lived up to the traditional reputation of fighting qualities under adverse conditions, and as long as their strength remained, played one of the most brilliant and thrilling games seen at Davidson. Alumni saw that it was manpower which defeated Davidson, and even then the visitors resorted to an overhead attack to smother the Wildcats.

Many alumni remained over Saturday night and Sunday, and on the former occasion had the opportunity of witnessing the stunt night performance, when the Glee Club and its various parts gave selections, and when the four classes presented stunts.

Alumni at Davidson last Saturday represented 47 different classes and came here from the states of North and South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Virginia, Tennessee, West Virginia, Oklahoma, Ohio, Pennsylvania, some of them traveling approximately a thousand miles to be here for the celebration.

New Addresses

Houston White, ’21, 1505 Healey Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.
T. E. Gray, ’25, Missouri State Life Insurance Co., Columbia, S. C.
L. B. McClain, ’28, 4429 Lowell St., N. W., Washington, D. C.
W. A. McClain, Jr., ’24, Suite 403-10 Atlanta Trust Co., Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.
W. L. Hodgin, ’27, Oak Ridge, N. C.
C. G. Allen, Jr., ’27, Farm Life School, Vanceboro, N. C.
J. A. Thames, ’18, 508 House Office Bldg., Washington, D. C.
Geo. H. Zimmerman, ’27, Phi Delta Theta House, 2 Ridgewood Road, Ithaca, N. Y.
Robt F. Smallwood, ’06, 243 West End Ave., New York, N. Y.
W. M. Treverton, ’27, Chadbourne, N. C.
Charles L. Crawford, ’26, Bessemer, N. C.

Alumni Deaths

James William Wilson, '88

James William Wilson, 1888, of Morganton, died at the home of his sister, Mrs. R. L. Gibbon, in Charlotte, Friday, November 16, after being in declining health for the past few months. Funeral services were held at his home in Morganton, Saturday afternoon, where many friends from various sections of the state gathered for the last rites.

Mr. Wilson was not a graduate of Davidson, coming here in 1884 and leaving after a two-year stay. He attended the University of North Carolina during the session 1886-1887, and went to Knoxville, where he was connected with engineering concerns. For the past several years he had been in the employ of the state revenue department and was located in Statesville and Gastonia for different periods until he went to Charlotte, when his health failed.

A. W. Peters, ’25

Augustus Winniette Peters, '25, of Tarboro, was fatally injured in an automobile wreck near his home on the night of Friday, October 24, and died four hours after the wreck at the Park View Hospital, in Tarboro. He and three other friends were returning from the Raleigh fair when the car in which they were riding turned over three times at a sharp curve. Another member of the party was seriously injured. Mr. Peters and the other injured person were riding in the rumble seat, which was probably the reason for their mishaps.

Mr. Peters attended Davidson during the 1921-1922 session. After leaving this institution he went into business at Tarboro, where he was prominently connected. He was the first president of the Tarboro Rotary Club, a devoted and loyal member of the Presbyterian Church there, and active in the Sunday School and other church work. He was held in high esteem by the people of that city. R. B. Peters, Jr., '19, a brother, survives, along with his parents, wife and little son, Winniette, Jr.

JACKSON SPEAKS (Continued from page 1)

from the backbone, the separation of intellect and life’s controlling factor has tended to make our religion like that of Pilate’s, a matter of reason lacking a firm, dominating life principle. Often we are inclined to wonder why God has put into our being certain instincts and impulses which seem to make it much harder to do that which is right. Yet the proper control of such instincts as those of mating, acquisition, and combat will result in their vast amount of energy finding expression through constructive channels. Indecision over a long period of time really results in decision, a decision to do nothing. We are then content to drift in the flotsam of do-nothingness rather than to strive against obstacles in answering the call of Jesus Christ.

Jesus is infinitely patient with our human failures and is ever willing to help us on to victory over ourselves and temptation. Therefore, let us rise in His strength, crush that “Don't bother me” spirit that is...standing in the way of real life, and answer His challenge to sacrificial service. “Do you know how to make a peach cordial?” “Sure, send her a box of candy.” —Sun Dial.

My, you need a haircut. Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real College haircut. He has three real barbers. NORTON BROS. in Postoffice block—Three first-class workmen.

Home-Coming Comment

Last Saturday—Home-Coming Day—wires were received from Dr. J. H. McDuffie, ’10, of Columbus, Ga.; Rev. J. Blanton Belk, D.D., ’15, of Orland, Fla., and James McCutchen, ’23, of Spartanburg, S. C., in which they expressed regret that they could not attend the celebration, and sent regards to their classmates. This is the first time such messages have been received on Home-Coming Day.

“Wonder how many people the radio program brought back today?” said one of the alumni musingly. “I know that it brought me and a party of five, for I did not intend to come until I heard the program.” This brings to mind the response which alumni gave Tuesday night, November 13, during the radio program. Telegrams were received from Davidson men in Atlanta, Ga.; Winterhaven, Fla.; St. Petersburg, Fla.; Rochester, N. Y.; Gastonia, Concord, Lilesville, Kings Mountain and Rock Hill, S. C. One alumnus called by telephone from Quincy, Fla., and another friend of the college wired from Blacksburg, S. C.

Robert Critz, '17, of Winston-Salem, returned to the Home-Coming celebration in an airplane, and was accompanied by three friends. This is the first time that a Davidson alumnus has used this mode of travel to reach Davidson. He landed on the field near Huntersville.

It was believed here last commencement that a record had been placed on the registration books when one alumnus returned for the first time since 1876. However, that has been shattered, for when Gen. W. A. Smith, '66, North Carolina Commander of the Confederate Veterans visited Davidson last Saturday, it was the first time since the Civil War, he said. Dr. J. M. Dunlap, ’73, of Ansonville, was with General Smith. Dr. Dunlap was at Davidson two years ago, however.

It was no uncommon sight to see Davidson alumni here last Saturday who had returned from distances of 300 miles, but those who came from the points farthest away were J. M. Bostick, '23, of Toledo, Ohio; John A. Calhoun, ’27, of Philadelphia, Pa.; Chas. C. Baskerville, ’28, of Tampa, Fla., and Dr. J. C. Peden, ’10, of Tulsa, Okla. There might have been others who did not come by the alumni office. A glance at the registration books in the alumni office reveals the fact that alumni were here Saturday for visits for the first time since 1898, 1901, 1905, 1913, 1917, 1919, 1921, 1922 and 1923. Six had not been at Davidson since 1914, 1916 and 1920. This includes only the registration list, and not all gave the information desired as to the time of their last visit.

For the past two years and a half, thirty-three alumni visited the campus again after a lapse of time that ranged from 10 to 64 years, and many others for shorter periods. If anyone wants to know what it means to alumni when they come back to Davidson, just stay around the alumni office for an hour on Home-Coming Day or at Commencement. You would be surprised at the frequent statements, “Nobody knows how good it is to be back once again,” or “I thought Davidson was a great old place when I was a student here, but I appreciate it ten times more now that I have left.” Ad infinitum.

Groups of alumni in the office here have been frequently heard to discuss whether Davidson should remain at its present enrollment, or should be increased. A consensus of opinion of every Davidson alumnus would be interesting, if a canvass were ever made by the alumni office. From what has been heard, beliefs are about equally divided.

Alumni Personals

Claude G. Allen, Jr., '27, and Mrs. Allen, of Vanceboro, announce the birth of a daughter, Eve-Ann, born October 13, 1928. Mr. Allen is connected with the Farm Life School as a teacher and coach.

John A. Thames, ’18, has returned to Washington from New York following the close of the presidential campaign, and is now at his old address, 508 House Office Bldg., Washington, D.C.

Johnny Bachman, ’25, recently won the Carolinas open golf championship for amateurs when he defeated Tully Blair, at Greensboro. They had to play 99 holes before Mr. Bachman could get the advantage. Mr. Bachman again gained distinction in the golfing world by tying the low score on the Sedgefield course a short time ago.

Friends will regret to learn of the recent death of Dr. P. J. Chester’s father at Cornelius. Dr. Chester, '00, is located at Fayetteville.

A number of Davidson alumni have been honored by different Presbyteries all over the south during the month of October. W. A. Watt, '01, of Thomasville, Ga., is moderator of the Southwest Georgia Presbytery; Rev. L. H. Eikel, '17, of Collierstown, Va., is moderator of the Presbytery of Lexington; and Rev. J. M. Carr, ’25, of Berryville, Va., and Rev. J. W. Witherspoon, of Shepherdstown, W. Va., were chosen as temporary clerks of the Presbytery of Winchester.

D. McL. McDonald, ’12, of Columbia, S. C., was recently received from Fayetteville Presbytery by the Presbytery of Congaree at a meeting in Columbia, S. C., as a licentiate, and after an examination an order was issued for his ordination to the ministry as an evangelist.

W. M. Orr, ’10, of Statesville is a member of the Iredell Land Company, which was recently granted a charter as a corporation to deal in real estate.

W. W. Fife, ’02, of Greensboro, recently underwent an operation for appendicitis.

Friends regretted to learn of the death of Miss Anna Irwin, sister of H. M. Irwin, ’73, of Charlotte.

Rev. H. G. Bedinger, ’11, of Hartsville, S. C., was the principal speaker at the Armistice Day Celebration in Florence, S. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Serves the Campus

Satisfy.

Originated to describe a unique coupling of qualities seemingly opposed—“they’re mild, and yet they satisfy”—its descriptive accuracy was instantly perceived. Today it echoes and re-echoes wherever cigarettes are smoked: “Satisfacen... ils satisfont... THEY SATISFY!” And rightly enough, for Chesterfields are mild—and they DO satisfy... and what more can any cigarette offer?

CHESTERFIELD

Mild enough for anybody... and yet... THEY SATISFY

LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO Co.