4 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 9, 1928

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
"The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN
M. P. CRAWFORD

EDITORIAL STAFF
A. N. BROWN .....................Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT ........Managing Editor
J. B. MORTARITY ........Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE ................Athletic Editor
R. A. WILSON ........Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE ........Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS ........Associate Editor
T. D. JONES ........Literary Editor
W. G. WADSWORTH ........Alumni Editor
K. C. FINCH ........Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY ........Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON ........Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL ........Assistant Business Manager
P. J. GARRISON ........Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON ........Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS ........Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE ........Solicitor
E. H. WILLIAMS ........Solicitor

President: R. GRAHAM
Vice-President: P. ANDERSON
Secretary-Treasurer: McDERM

W. H. BEST
W. B. HOQUEEN
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D. MILLER
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. ATT
R. F. JATT
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LONG
W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

THE LITERARY SOCIETIES

Tonight an attempt will be made to thoroughly reorganize the literary societies and put them once more upon firm ground here at Davidson. The local circle of Omicron Delta Kappa is sponsoring this attempt to rejuvenate the societies and all interested in campus activities will watch eagerly the results of this effort. The local circle believes that the societies have a place on the campus here, it believes that the students as a whole should take a more active interest in its activities and that these students would join in more enthusiastically if the societies were made more interesting and instructive. It is believed that with such an organized group as the local circle of O. D. K. backing the societies that they will improve materially in a number of ways. The main criticism of the societies for the last few years has been that there are not enough members of the senior class actively interested in society work. Each member of the fraternity has pledged to do all that he can to aid the societies, including joining one of the two and aiding in every way to make the societies more active and powerful.

A new feature will be tried for a few months in the societies, namely that of having the faculty members of the two societies present at the meeting whenever they choose and placing them on the program at regular intervals. In this way it is hoped that more interest will be created, and also that a closer bond of fellowship between faculty and students will be created. This plan has been working very successfully at the University of Georgia. Last week on the program of one of the societies there were four professors engaged in a heated debate on a farcical subject. If something of this sort can be created here at Davidson it is believed that the literary societies will become more interesting and entertaining and attract a larger percentage of the student body than previously.

Since the “disbanding” or “adjournment” of one of the societies here a few weeks ago there has been much comment and criticism of the action both here on the campus and among circles of the alumni. Tonight an attempt will be made to revive this society and plan regular weekly meetings for the rest of the year. A few of the members of this society have expressed dissatisfaction with the action that was taken and these men will form a nucleus of active workers around whom it is hoped a live society will be built. With the very progressive plans that have been outlined placed before the eyes of the students as a whole it is believed that much more interest will be shown in the societies than has been evidenced in the past few years. That seniors, who have only a few months left in college, should take an active interest in the societies and help to develop it; this fact should appeal to the underclassmen and create a new attitude toward the societies. In the past this attitude of the student body has been extremely apathetic, but it is hoped that in the future this will be changed.

It would be trite to mention the various advantages and excellent points of literary society work, but each student should consider this matter carefully in regard to his own activities. Many students believe that the societies are “a good thing” and never attend one. The rejuvenation of the societies should appeal to these men and make them realize that the societies need them and that much good can be accomplished by mutual activity and co-operation. A special appeal is made to juniors for aiding in this work. The complaint of new men in societies has been that there didn’t seem to be any upperclassmen, and particularly seniors, actively interested in the society. To juniors, who will be seniors and active in various positions next year, this appeal is made directly. Only by their interest and activity can any measure of success be assured. The work of the seniors this year will be in vain if next year’s seniors refuse to co-operate and aid in this work. There must be a number of leaders developed and a number of upperclassmen interested before any good will come.

SLOGANS

The trend in collegiate journalism for the past few weeks seems to have drifted to the subjects of slogans, embryo journalists querying as to whether or not their respective journals really were in earnest in printing a particular slogan at the masthead of their paper each week. The Emory Wheel has been attempting to discover whether or not the staff of that organization really wants “intercollegiate athletics.” Open Forum articles on both sides of the question have been appearing prolifically in the last few issues. Randolph-Macon College through its weekly publication, The Yellow Jacket, has had as its slogan, “The Official Publication of the Alumni Association.” The students insist that it is not official, the publication rightly belongs to the student body, and that the alumni have not taken enough interest to even be mentioned in the editorial box.

It is always bad policy to brag, so we hope that no one will misinterpret this article and believe that The Davidsonian is attempting to claim any credit for things which someone else has accomplished. The main point to be brought out was that the slogan of this publication seems to be justified, even though all the actions towards this goal can be traced to those energetic members of either the editorial staff or business staff of the publication. We do believe, however, that Davidson is better than at the time when the slogan was adopted, and that all indications point toward the improvement of the school.

One of the main events which has provoked this little outburst of school patriotism is the awarding of the contract for the completion of Chambers building. With this keystone of the educational plant here rebuilt, there will be little more that anyone could wish for the school in the way of modern and scientific equipment. At that time there will no doubt arise some other need, but at present it seems that as soon as this new building is completed, a number of small evils and problems will be eliminated. To those loyal men who have labored so faithfully in soliciting subscriptions that actual work might be begun on the building, and to those who have given so generously to this worthy cause, the student body is deeply grateful.

It is certain that the seniors will never enter the new building as students, although they have attended classes in the south wing of the structure for three years. The remainder of the student body, however, will no doubt be able to use some of the new plant. But every Davidson man is sincerely happy that the building will soon be complete, whether or not he will be able to attend classes there or not.

It would be mere repetition to explain in what ways the new building will aid the school in general. It is sufficient to say that it will eliminate one of the outstanding problems, that of an adequate auditorium. This and numerous other advantages will be evident as soon as the building is finished. Now that this main problem is solved, others of lesser importance now arise and will hold the attention of the administration and student body.Attention of the students and alumni until a solution is found. One is that of a larger and more completely equipped gymnasium, which will be necessary to be accomplished. The physical needs of the entire student body—not even to mention the lack of space when an intercollegiate indoor sport is staged—are inadequate. There is also the question of a swimming pool, which is sorely needed here. It is well to congratulate everyone on the actual beginning of work on the new building, but one should also remember that there are other problems to be solved.

A WORD OF ADVICE

Mention has been made in this column once before of the value of the Vocational Guidance Institute which begins here next week under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A. It is certain, however, that there are numerous students who have yet to realize the seriousness of the problem which is to be discussed and the value of these talks which will be given. A great percentage of the student body has not decided what they will do after being graduated from this institution—it is towards these men that these lectures are directed. But there is also a large percentage which will ignore this valuable advice and instruction which is to be presented and thereby lose an excellent opportunity to plumb the depths of themselves: to find just what they are fitted for. No doubt, this has been repeated in this publication, in chapel, and which each should know. But it will be time and space well spent if it will make some realize the inestimable value of these lectures.

The men now in college have, in general, been here long enough to know the general trend of things. They should know the courses offered here and what they would like to take in their last two years. All of these men could but be benefited by these talks were they to attend the meeting devoted to the subject in which they are particularly interested. A man should certainly decide in what profession he will attempt to make his way before the middle of his sophomore year. In this way, he can shape his elective courses toward the general goal which he has. Far too many men wind up their junior and senior years no more definitely as to what they will do than when they first entered high school. In this way, a whole college course is a meaningless meandering current, the end of which they cannot see and in which they are not in the least interested. The Vocational Guidance Institute wishes to reach these men and attempt to give them some definite goal toward which they may work. The Institute will present outstanding and prominent men in each profession, giving each a fair chance and attempt to interest the student in one of them. But the student who has already decided what he will do after graduation will also be interested in these lectures. An attempt will be made to present the problem of this profession, interesting points about it, and various things which will be intensely interesting to the man who has decided definitely what he will do. With the above in view, it will be strange if every one of the meetings of the Institute will not be well attended.

Open Forum

The writer of “Too Hasty Action” in last week’s Davidsonian showed only a complete ignorance of the facts involved in the case. The writer of that article gave no less than nine misquotations of facts. In fairness to the Society, I will say that the Phi Society has not disbanded but simply adjourned to meet on the call of the President. If the writer of “Too Hasty Action” will see me, I will clear the matter up.
HENRY T. POWELL, Past President.

MONEY UNDER FALSE PRETENSES

It was a Gentile errand boy who had applied to his Jewish employer for a raise in wages. To this, the careful Jew replied: “If it wasn’t Leap Year,” added the lad’s employer sternly, “you wouldn’t be working for me at all.”—Manchester (England) Guardian.

In Leap Year there are 366 days
You work 8 hours per day.
Therefore you don’t work 244 days
122 days
You don’t work Jewish and Christian Sabbaths 104 days
18 days
You have 14 days’ holiday 14 days
4 days
You don’t work Christmas day, New Year's day, and Good Friday 3 days
1 day

Out of Bounds

For six months we have aped “the world’s highest paid editorial writer” in this column. To date, we have received exactly five comments upon our efforts and three of those have been adverse. The student public being uninterested, we shall change the tune for a week. Side by side with the august Mr. Brisbane in the Charlotte Observer is placed a daily dose of New York from O. O. McIntyre. A cut of the Davidson skyline to head this column is lacking but the spirit is present.

Monday morning diary of a modern Pepys. Up betimes and to chapel where I received a spiritual tonic for the day. Then to the house where I did arduously prepare myself for a written history lesson to the accompaniment of “The Piano Rag,” “Moten’s Stomp,” and conversational interruptions. Then in a rush to class and afterwards a sojourn at the new shop for crackers and milk where the student wits lolled about the music box and patted their feet to scintillating melodies. Away for an evening of golf cavorting about the course wretchedly but learned from the small talk that Professor Gore was of Pennsylvania Dutch extraction. Then to the theater and to bed. Methinks that the former suffered much from a lack of titles by George Marion, Jr.

Or try this one on your kazoo, Wednesday morning thoughts while strolling. Professor Cummings with a new blue tie. Mill hands in denim. A foot of whiskers on a passing male face. Sergeant Kirby. Grammar school sweethearts. A clerk who plays the traps at Wrightsville during the summer months. The new Ford. Absence cards. Clothing drummers. Spike McGee carting sandwiches to his dispensary. Old Ironsides with George Bancroft. Country schooners. Miss Minnie. Don Q. and the drug store. Mud. Mr. Thompson of the bank minus his coat. A movie house for the colored gentry. Tommy. And then we might continue.

The railroad forms the barrier and one side of town rarely mixes with the other. Saturday afternoon finds the western section in the lower business district for the weekly shave and purchases of groceries. There are many in that part of the village who have never left Davidson. They watch the cotton mill spindles, go to the Western on Saturday nights and then seclude themselves for another week. Their cotton hose and overalls are indelible marks of their inferiority. The children go to grammar school and compare favorably with the more enlightened professor’s offspring but they rarely remain after the eighth grade. The mill calls them to support dependents.

The latest concoction of the swank new soda shop is a “half and half,” varied syrups mixed with cream. Tasty palates are satisfied for twenty cents, and the cover charge is gratis. I stepped on his toe in the post office and when he turned to rebuke me I gave him my most withering glance, which of course just made an old silly out of him. And perhaps next time, my children, we shall have some extracts from the “By and By” column if Arthur still remains indisposed. And then of course Elsie Robinson remains for our attention together with “Daily Health Hints.” And now since some little space remains we shall fill it with a little sentiment of our own concoction—shades of Amy Lowell.

Where sea and shore convene,
I found a pearl,
I loved it not but reached to pluck the moon
from off its pedestal.
But as I tiptoed to the skies
A swirl of water hurled me to the sand.
I’m looking for black diamonds now.
W.L.L.

WHEN THE PREACHER’S TIRE GOES FLAT

Preachers are human enough to need a “boost” now and then. Don’t be afraid of putting a bit of courage beneath their ribs. Should they become too “chesty,” the Lord may be trusted to deflate at the proper time.

One Sunday morning, a man came forward at the close of the service in the First Presbyterian church in Nashville, Tenn., and said, “I have come all the way from Covington to hear you preach.” Now, Covington is 150 miles west of Nashville, and I felt my chest swelling and myself rising on my toes as I said to the visitor, “I trust that you have gotten the worth of your fare.” “O, yes,” he answered, “I travel on a pass.” Then my tire went flat; and I think that the puncture was heaven-sent.—James I. Vance.