THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1928

DAVIDSON FRESH DEFEAT CATAWBA BY HIGH SCORE

The Davidson College Wildkittens won their second track meet of the year last Thursday when they defeated Catawba College here by the one-sided score of 92 to 24. The Wildkittens won all of the 13 first places, and most of the second places, to score this overwhelming victory.

Thad Brock, of the Wildkittens, led the scoring for the day, taking first place in the pole vault and the high jump, and third places in the shot put and broad jump, for a total score of 12 points. He was followed closely by Tom Neal, flash sprinter for the Kittens, who took first in the 100 and 220 yard dashes, for a total score of 10 points. For Catawba, Aycock led the scoring with six points to his credit.

The Summary:
100 yard dash—Neal, Davidson, first; McCall, Davidson; Byers, Catawba. Time, 10.5 seconds.
Mile run—Wilson, Davidson, first; Masters, Catawba; Daffin, Davidson. Time, 5 minutes, 7 seconds.
220 yard dash—Neal, Davidson, first; Aycock, Catawba; Goodykoontz, Davidson. Time, 25 seconds.
120 yard high hurdles—George, Davidson, first; Dennis, Davidson; Fletcher, Catawba. Time, 18 seconds.
440 yard dash—Goodykoontz, Davidson, first; Aycock, Catawba; Moore, Catawba. Time, 57.2 seconds.
220 yard low hurdles—Dennis, Davidson, first; George, Davidson; Warlick, Catawba. Time, 27.9 seconds.
880 yard run—Middleton, Davidson, first; Drake, Davidson; Moffett, Davidson. Time, 2 minutes 16.6 seconds.
Pole vault—Brock, Davidson, first; Warlick, Catawba. Height, 7 feet 8 inches.
Shot put—Fraley, Davidson, first; Boyles, Davidson; Brock, Davidson. Distance, 33 feet 3 1/2 inches.
High jump—Brock, Davidson, first; McCall, Davidson; Dennis, Davidson; Bostian, Catawba; Fletcher, Catawba (4 tied for second place). Height, 5 feet 8 inches.
Broad jump—McCall, Davidson, first; Bostian, Catawba; Brock, Davidson. Distance, 19 feet 11 1/2 inches.
Discus—Boyles, Davidson, first; Love, Catawba; Fraley, Davidson. Distance, 96 feet 6 1/2 inches.
Javelin—Coble, Davidson, first; McCullough, Davidson; White, Davidson. Distance, 151 feet 6 inches.

Summer Session to Begin Work June 12

The opening of summer school this summer will mark the beginning of a regular summer school at Davidson; formerly the summer session was composed only of professors teaching certain subjects. Prof. F. K. Fleagle, head of the Spanish department, who was recently elected dean of the summer school, made known in a recent announcement that enrollment for the summer session would be concluded on June 1st, no applicant being taken after this date.

The Davidson summer school, created to meet the increasing demand for study under the Davidson faculty, is open to men and women seeking to complete their studies for undergraduate and graduate degrees. The summer school will open its session June 12th and continue for six weeks, through July 24th. Full college credits will be given to students completing the required amount of work in the various courses included in the curriculum. The faculty membership has not yet been announced but is expected to be made known soon. There will also be a complete schedule of classes and courses published.

Judging from the past sessions of summer school at Davidson, the student body will be composed of public school teachers from all sections of the southeast as well as college students and others who desire to attend. Those students who wish to secure rooms in the dormitories should make their request known to the director of the summer school as soon as possible. Rooms will be available for those desiring them at $12.50 each for the six weeks.

The gum-chewing girl
And the cud-chewing cow
Are somewhat alike,
But different somehow.
What difference? Oh, yes, I see it now.
It’s the thoughtful
Look on the face of the cow.

* * * *

Slow motion: Two Scotchmen waiting to see who would take the dinner check.

EXTRA ANNUALS Order Now—Only Limited Number Being Printed

Fate of Four Columns of Old Chambers Left to Hands of Trustees

Probability is That They Will Remain on Campus

There seems to be a common supposition among the members of the student body that the four columns which remain from the Old Chambers Building have been left standing by the college authorities to serve as a memorial marker of the old building. In a recent interview with President Martin the statement was made to the effect that the disposition of these pillars rests in the hands of the college Board of Trustees and the board has never ordered their removal nor have they given any order.concerning them, so by common consent they have been left standing. Dr. Martin also stated that they would probably be left as they are until the completion of the New Chambers Building and a final decision will be made concerning them at that time. Unless they are found to be in the way or detrimental in any way to the appearance of the new building, they will probably remain standing as a memorial to the famous old structure of which they alone remain to mark its former site. Ivy has been planted at the base of each column during the past year and is rapidly training itself upward around them. This will, in time, beautify them to a great extent. If the board orders them to stand, some repairs will probably be made to them to prevent the crumbling at the top which the elements have caused. A consensus of student body opinion seems to be in favor of allowing the old columns to remain standing and Dr. Martin said that this plan is favorable to him, but their fate rests in the hands of the board of trustees.

Playing to a well-filled house last Saturday night, members of the class of '27 presented one of the best and snappiest minstrels in the history of the college. The minstrel was the concluding feature of the annual Junior Speaking program, and was put on almost exclusively by Junior talent. With Dick Kane as interlocutor, and Bill Regen, Bob Horton, Laurence Kirkland, Mac King, Sam Black, Hub Knox, Frank Cannon and Dick Flinn as end men, the program was pulled off without a hitch and their jokes and songs kept the audience laughing continuously. The entire show was in the nature of a tambourine chorus, each member of the cast flourishing his tambourine with timely effect. Several special vocal solos were presented during the entertainment, Flinn opening this part of the program by singing, “Save a Little Dram for Me.” Charles Creech sang “Girl of My Dreams,” Bill Archie “Love Sends a Little Gift of Roses,” Frank Cannon “Lay Low Elizabeth Brown,” Bob Horton “Original Two-time Man,” Burwell Peterson “Abnet.” Probably the most applauded feature of the program was the stringed instrument duet by Proctor Thompson and Tommy Jones. These boys played several pieces, following which Gordon McSwain, Proctor Thompson, and Mobley, sang a few popular songs, with Thompson also accompanying on his guitar. These selections were encored time after time. An added feature of the evening’s program was the official presentation, by Dick Kane, of a Wildcat and cage to the class of ’29, by Ben Withers, an alumnus of Davidson now residing in Charlotte. Much praise is due to Mr. Irving Setzer, of Charlotte, for the success of the minstrel.

1928 QUIPS AND CRANKS
Please send me ________ copies of the 1928 Quips and Cranks for $5.00 per copy.

When Dad was a “Modern Youth”

Bicycles, stereopticon lectures, street lighting sheds its friendly glow over the campus. Without electricity we would have none of these improvements. To-day’s marvel of electrical invention becomes to-morrow’s accepted utility. In the coming years, by taking advantage of new uses of electricity you will be able to go so much farther that the “tearing twenties” will seem just as primitive as the “gay nineties”.

Mail to C. R. ROWE, Box 319, Davidson, N. C.

Boys! Mother’s Day is the 13th. Pick out her candy and flowers now.