Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN December 6, 1923.

——————

ALUMNI NEWS

The two words are not synonymous: Bologna is pork; boloney is bull—Literary Digest.

Excited Father: “Are you the man

NEW YORK ALUMNI ASSOCIATION MET ON NOVEMBER 13

Seventeen Davidson Men Gathered at Fraternity Club in the Metropolis

SEMI-ANNUAL MEETING

No Important Business Was Scheduled—Telegram Expressing Best Wishes Was Dispatched to the Wildcats

Seventeen Davidson College Alumni now residing in New York and vicinity, met in their semi-annual meeting at the Fraternity Club in New York on November 13th, the affair being an informal gathering, centering around a discussion of the Davidson of yesterday and today.

W. P. Anderson, ’07, president of the New York chapter, called the meeting to order, and presided throughout. No important business was transacted, and the meeting, according to the minutes filed with the alumni secretary, developed into what “is generally known in college as the “bull-session.” By a vote of those present the local secretary, R. W. Oeland, ’25, was instructed to telegraph the Davidson Wildcats a word of encouragement and best wishes in their annual football game with the University of North Carolina on November 17th.

Alumni attending the meeting were U. S. Alexander, '15; Harry V. Allen, ‘98; W. P. Anderson, '07; E. F. Bohannon, ’27; Dr. J. R. Boulware, ’21; C. C. Carson, ’28; Pitts Douglas, ’21; Fred L. Dendy, former Davidson professor; Prof. R. C. Garth, ’19; W. R. Grey, Jr., ’28; Richard Littlejohn, '25; Layton Mauze, ’31; R. W. Oeland, ’25; H. L. Shaw, Jr., ’26; Frank S. Wilkinson, ’27; Ben A. Wilson, ’28, and C. A. Young, '24.

Courses in Aviation

Ohio State University, Dec. 5.—A ground school in aviation at Ohio State University is the ultimate project of the joint aviation committee of the General Assembly, Representative David S. Ingalls, the “flying solon” of Cuyahoga County, disclosed. Ingalls proposes that the Ohio State University course teach motors, navigation, airship construction and ballistics. Present equipment in Columbus is nearly sufficient, he said. He is opposed to teaching students to become pilots, but would allow some private company to undertake that part of it.

“We're Even Now”

Birmingham, Ala., Dec. 5. — Two buildings on the campus of Howard College, a Baptist institution, here were streaked and daubed with gray and yellow paint just six days after the administration building at Birmingham Southern College, a Methodist institution, had been similarly defaced. College authorities said they were without clues to the identity of the “painters”. Some of the inscriptions were derogatory to Howard, others praised Birmingham Southern, and one read: “We're even now.”

Library Contributions

St. Xavier College, Dec. 5. — Over 200 volumes have just been donated to the St. Xavier College library by Rev. Francis A. Rearden, a graduate from that college in 1905. The collection includes works on travel, poetry, essays, history, and several treatises on branches of philosophy.

Plan Social Life

Ohio Wesleyan University, Dec. 5.—Definite steps toward finding a solution for the problem of adequate student recreation were taken at a meeting of freshmen cottage advisors and committee of men students at Ohio Wesleyan. The committee declared that Delaware had no adequate means of entertaining the student body and formed itself into a permanent group to see that the situation is remedied. No announcement of definite steps have been made.

Alumni Personals

Dr. Julian P. Price, ’22, recently connected with the Bellevue Hospital in New York, is now with the McLeod Infirmary in Florence, S.C.

F. L. Jackson, ’06, of Davidson, has been appointed on the professional educational contact committee of North Carolina public accountants.

Mrs. Howard Banks, of Pittsburgh, Pa., wife of Dr. Howard Banks, '88, of Pittsburgh, has been recuperating in Charlotte from a serious operation performed in Philadelphia.

Roland B. Parker, ’26, who is connected with the Darlington School for Boys at Rome, Ga., spent Monday at Davidson.

Rev. W. B. Jennings, D. D., ‘80, pastor of the First Presbyterian church at Germantown, Pa., near Philadelphia, has written his classmate, Dr. C. R. Harding, that he plans to attend the reunion of his class at Davidson next commencement. From present indications most of the survivors of

Alumni Deaths

C. R. McGinn, 1900

Charles Roy McGinn, 57, graduate of Davidson College in the class of 1900, died suddenly Monday morning, December 3rd, at the home of his brother, P. C. McGinn, in Charlotte. Funeral services were held there Tuesday afternoon. Death occurred shortly after he awoke Monday morning. He had not been feeling well for some time, but arose as usual and members of the family heard him moving about the room. Later they went to his room when he failed to reply to a summons to breakfast, and found him lying across the bed, death evidently having occurred a few minutes before. Mr. McGinn, a one-armed man, was a real estate dealer in Charlotte, and was known to hundreds of people throughout this section, having made many real estate deals. He was prominently connected with several fraternal orders in Charlotte. The deceased was born in the Sharon section of Mecklenburg County, and entered Davidson from that point in 1896, completing his course in 1900. He immediately went to Charlotte where he engaged in the realty business.

No Mon

Antioch College, Dec. 5. — Hazing has been abolished by the new student government constitution recently adopted by the council. The council refused to consider any plan of financial remuneration for injured football men for fear of setting a precedent.

Worse Yet

Last Sunday night the Christian Endeavor Training Class sent a deputation to Cornelius. Those who went were: Bill Milton, Tom Hill, J. A. Jones, R. D. Russell, and S. W. DuBose, Jr. The four-fold Christian life was discussed. Bill Milton led the service; Tom Hill discussed the physical side.of a Christian’s life, Wilds DuBose the social, J. A. Jones the mental, and R. D. Russell the religious. One thing to be said in favor of the Old Magic Lantern is that it never tried to talk.—Life.

Sighted in rural New England—a wayside sign: “Ye Olde Freshe Eggs.” —Detroit News.

“Husbands should share the housework with their wives,” says a woman's paper. We despise those selfish husbands who want to do it all themselves.

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE S&W Cafeterias are catering to you ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH for this occasion.

Rev. W. C. Rourk, ’16, who has been pastor at Burlington, has resigned to accept a call to a group of churches near Ellenboro.

H. Smith Richardson, ’06, of Greensboro, has been appointed a member of the state and local taxation committee of the United States Chamber of Commerce.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of Thomas Boone Fraser, son of Rev. A. M. Fraser, D. D., '76, of Staunton, Va.

The Third Presbyterian church of New Orleans, La., held appropriate exercises November 11th, celebrating the completion of a period of twenty-five years in which Rev. George Summey, D.D., ’70, had served as pastor. Dr. Summey, who is now serving the church as Professor of Theology at Austin Seminary, was elected pastor-emeritus at that time.

Rev. A. R. Howland, ’15, of Atlanta, Ga., has been chosen as moderator of the Presbytery of Atlanta.

New Addresses:
W. J. Cooper, ’23, Kingstree, S. C.
C. R. Wilcox, ’12, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
Robert A. Mickle, '86, 800 W. Fifteenth St., Birmingham, Ala.
J. N. Bragaw, ’20, care Coastal Chevrolet Co., Beaufort, S. C.
Dr. J. C. Richardson, ’17, care Mrs. J. R. Brooks, Monroe, N. Y.
J. A. Joyner, ’26, care Union, Charlotte, N. C.
Dr. J. P. Price, ’22, care McLeod Infirmary, Florence, S. C.
Rev. H. L. Cathey, '06, Box 679, Lexington, Va.

Western the class of 1880 are planning to return.

“Who pulled Ikey out of de lake?”
Blushing Hero: “Yes, sir.”
“Vell, vere’s his cap?” —Technician.

We've heard that the library was raided last week. They found liquor in the dictionary.—Exchange.

TWELVE — DAVIDSONIAN —

“I tella your fortune, Sir?”
“How much?”
“Twenty-five cents.”
“Correct”—Exchange.

“Why don’t you put on your slicker?”
“I can’t. I’ve got a book in my hand and it won’t go through the sleeve.” —Agonistic.

Aviator Hall: “Wanna fly?”
She: “OO-o-oh, yeh!”
Aviator Hall: “Wait! I'll catch one for you.”—Exchange.

Worse Yet
The old lady was looking for something to grumble about. She entered the butcher’s shop with the light of battle in her eyes.
“I believe that you sell diseased meat here!”
“Worse,” replied the butcher blandly.
“What do you mean, worse?” demanded the astonished patron.
“The meat we serve is dead!” confided the butcher in a stage whisper.

College Girl Risks Death to Win Grim Wager.
Oberlin College (CNA)—An 18-year-old Oberlin College co-ed was in Allen hospital with a broken collarbone and several fractured ribs as the result of a reckless wager with William B. Robison, a sophomore. Miss Lillian Ramsey, of Struthers, Ohio, was struck by a New York Central train. An investigation by college officials revealed that she entered into a bet with Robison that she could sit on the railroad tracks as the train approached, longer than he. In a spirit of jest they sat down on the tracks, Miss Ramsey declaring she would be the last to leave. As the train approached, he waited for the girl to move, Robinson said, but she remained, laughing and chiding him. When the locomotive was almost upon them he jumped and attempted to pull Miss Ramsey with him but was too late to get her entirely clear, he said.

Miami to Get D. A. R.’s $70,000
Oxford College (CNA)—Oxford College, lately merged with Miami University, is to receive the $70,000 D. A. R. memorial to Caroline Scott Harrison, according to word received from Washington, D.C. The plan proposed by Miami to make the main building of Oxford College a fitting memorial to the wife of President Benjamin Harrison was unanimously agreed to by the Daughters of the American Revolution at a recent meeting. The memorial fund of about $70,000 is available for this purpose which will include the reconstruction of the building into a colonial structure and the construction of a dining hall and club lounge. The fund in her name was started about ten years ago, and will commemorate her services as first regent of the D. A. R.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Wildcat Belts
W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DRUGS
Prescriptions
Make Our Store
Your Store
Christmas Goods Now On Display
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
SODA
Sundries

Real Folks at Home (The Piano Mover)
By BRIGGS

“You're just in time, Pat. Run down to Mrs. Murphy's and bring me up a pint of milk.”

“Didn't come home carrying teas for you—guess we only moved it.”

“Not five baby grands and two uprights for a big strong man like you—what's the matter with your back, Pat?”

“That helper of mine almost broke it today, that's what's the matter with me back! He's at the front end and starts coughing, and when he lets go, the piano falls on me.”

OLD GOLD
The Smoother and Better Cigarette ....not a cough in a carload
P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

“He'll smoke nothin’ but Old Golds from this day on if I have to buy 'em for him.”

“I'll rub it with liniment after.”