MEN are valuable just in proportion as they are able and willing to work in harmony with other men. — Elbert Hubbard.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

JUNIOR FOLLIES COMING—WATCH

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 6, 1928 No. 12

BLUE DEVILS WIN OVER WILDCATS BY SCORE OF 33 TO 0
Aerial Attack Led by Buie Features Contest
DAVIDSON’S FIGHT UNDAUNTED
Too much Duke Reserve Spells Defeat for Red and Black in Final Encounter

(The Charlotte Observer): Duke easily hurled the final barrier along the torturous path that leads to a clash with North Carolina for the state football crown by a 33 to 0 rout of Davidson in Durham November 20. Old Man Dope had his inning, but the slightly lop-sided count nevertheless proved a surprise and leaves out of the picture the valiant struggle that a vastly more inexperienced and lighter Davidson squad staged with the odds heavily against them from the outset.

Dazzling Attack
Duke, confident of its prowess, launched a dazzling offensive from the start. It seized an unrivalled chance to eliminate its sole remaining foe before accepting probably the most glamorous pigskin opportunity in its history, a crack at the state title for one of the institution’s most powerful teams in its tilt with North Carolina at Chapel Hill Saturday week. DeHart's Blue Devil crashed through to their initial touchdown in the first seven minutes of play to evidence their superiority in an unmistakable manner. They accomplished this task in a brisk, business-like manner to forge ahead and then promptly strengthened their advantage by exemplifying the admonition of that well-known adage which says something about a good offensive is always the best defensive.

17 First Downs
In the vernacular, Duke put the game on ice and left no possible chance for any fluke to beat them. Duke took the opening kickoff and on the fourth play chalked up the first of 17 first downs, an accomplishment that customarily spells defeat in gridiron spellers. Duke eked out six coveted first downs, but that’s another story. Davidson's forward another first down and a punt carried the ball to the Presbyterian’s 27-yard line. Warren soon afterward blocked a Davidson punt and Rosky recovered for Duke on the visitor’s 13-yard line. Successive assaults through the line paved the way for a touchdown over left tackle by Godfrey with Buie kicking goal. Another seven points were tallied in the first quarter after Davidson started filling the air with passes that were consistently incompleted. After an exchange of punts, Duke uncorked a sparkling aerial drive beginning with a pass from Buie to Murray that netted 18 yards. Another first down resulted from a 10-yard floater from Buie to Rosky. These series of (Continued on page 6)

Frank Price Fund Solicited Tonight
Annual Donation Drive of Y. M. C. A. Promoted Tonight

Tonight has been set aside as the night for the solicitation for the Frank Price Mission Fund, the annual project of the Y. M. C. A. Each room on the campus will be visited and everyone will have the opportunity to contribute. It is hoped by the directors that each Davidson Man will feel his opportunity and responsibility in the support of Frank Price and will make his gift as large as possible. Money gifts or pledges payable by April 1st may be made. For several years Warren Cox was supported in China. Last year scholarships were given to Banner Elk students. This year the Y. M. C. A. has pledged to raise $1,000 for Frank Price in China. The wonder of Price’s work in the building of New China has an appeal to all students world-minded in the interest of Christ's Kingdom, but Frank Price further demands the loyalty of every Davidson student, because he himself is an old Davidson man and one that can be pointed to with sincere pride. The Mission Display in the Y-Room will continue through December.

Honorary Fraternity Is Giving Prizes For Best Articles And Editorials
$5.00 and $2.50 Offered for First and Second Editorials
TO CLOSE CHRISTMAS
First and Second Best Feature Articles to Receive Same Prizes

In an attempt to stimulate interest in journalistic writing and to improve the general style of that writing, Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, has announced that it will give a sum of $15.00 in cash for articles submitted to the editor-in-chief before Christmas holidays. A first prize of $5.00 cash will be given to the best editorial, with $2.50 as a second prize for the person submitting the second-best editorial. Similarly, $5.00 will be given to the person handing in the best feature article with a second prize of $2.50 in the same class. Following a draft of the rules drawn up and submitted by a committee consisting of W. K. Pritchett, chairman, R. F. Jarratt, and F. D. Miller.

1. All articles must be handed to the editor-in-chief at 20 Rumple before the Christmas holidays.
2. Announcements of winners will be made in the first issue after the holidays.
3. Any student not on the editorial staff of the “Davidsonian” is eligible to contest.
4. Editorials should be about 350 words long, features 500 words.
5. The articles shall be judged by Prof. E. J. Erwin.
6. If worthy articles are not submitted, no prizes will be given.
7. “The Davidsonian” shall have the privilege to publish any article submitted.

The committee urges that men who are not connected with The Davidsonian or have never tried to do journalistic work try for these prizes as well as the members of the Reporters’ Club and Davidsonian workers. One of the purposes of the offer is to discover latent talent in the student body, to improve and stimulate that already at work.

Kell and Knox Talk At Gastonia Church
“Y” Deputation Visits First Presbyterian Church

A deputation composed of R. E. Kell and H. A. Knox visited Gastonia Sunday night, December 2, for services at the First Presbyterian Church. This was the first of a number of visits which have been planned to nearby towns and cities. Three meetings were held during the evening. Knox spoke to the Senior Christian Endeavor while Kell talked to the Junior Christian Endeavor. The night church service was turned over to the men at which time Kell addressed the congregation. “Prayer” was the subject of Knox's talk in which he impressed his listeners with the importance it plays in the daily life of a person. Kell discussed with the Junior members the topic of “Leadership” and at the Evening worship his discourse was upon “Love”. In the latter talk Kell showed how love was the fundamental principle of Christianity. The Deputation team will make other visits during the winter. If anyone desires the team to come to his home town, he may see F. R. Brown and he will try to make arrangements to do so.

Change of Hour
Sunday, December 9, the Ministerial Band will change the hour of meeting in an attempt to increase attendance by getting men who go on Sunday deputations to come. The meeting, which has formerly been held at 2:30 in Shearer, will henceforth be held at 1:30. A personal canvass of the ministerial students is being made to get a 100 percent attendance at the band meetings. E. P. Moye, president, asks that each ministerial candidate attend Sunday at the rally meeting at 1:30.

Glee Club Ends Trip With State Contest
Club in Competition With Duke, State and Guilford

The Glee Club will be entered tonight in the State Contest which is being held at Durham. The clubs participating in this contest are Duke, State, Davidson, and Guilford. Each Club will sing F. S. Smith's arrangement of Dvorak’s “Songs My Mother Taught Me” and another song of their own selection. Davidson's Club plans to use “Winter Song” by F. F. Bullard as their choice song and will be directed in these songs by its president, Paul Fry. In previous years there have been several musicians acting together as judges but this year it is planned to have only one judge. The contest tonight comes toward the close of the Glee Club's first tour which started Monday afternoon when they left for Troy where they gave their first concert on the tour that night. Tuesday they took lunch at Flora McDonald College and gave a matinee there that afternoon after which they left immediately for Lumberton, giving a concert there that night. Wednesday night a concert was given in Elizabethton and as has been already stated, they enter the State Contest at Durham tonight. Friday they take supper at Salem College and return shortly after the concert there that night. While the Jazz and Concert Orchestras are accompanying the Club on their trip, the total number of men taken does not exceed thirty-one, due to the fact that the officers of the Club have endeavored to find places in the chorus for all those men playing in either of the orchestras. Since this was not done in previous years it had formerly been necessary to take some forty men on the trip which required two busses but only one bus was needed on this trip. Several changes have been made in the membership of the Club and the revised list of those making the trip is as follows: First Tenors—J. Clark, R. P. Davis, J. Thompson, E. Bradley, C. C. Wim. Hunter, A. (Continued on page 3)

10, 12 and 2 o’Clock
Not an advertisement for Dr. Pepper's famous drink but the schedule that Davidson’s wayward sons may follow as they return to the campus at night from trips to Charlotte. That which has been a problem in the way of getting back from the Queen City since the late Hoot Owl has been discontinued has been solved by a young man who will run a swift car at the hour mentioned above for the nominal sum of 25c, a quarter of a dollar. Rides may be obtained at the regular point of departure on North Graham Street every night at 10, 12 and 2 o'clock.

Plans for Uniform Money Formulated
Elkins in Charge of Student Drive For Funds

On the night of November 30, Captain J. W. Elkins, varsity cheer leader; C. R. Myers, manager of the Students’ Store; Professor E. J. Cullum, Director of the Musical Department; A. N. Warren, president of the Junior Class, and B. H. O. Gee of the Jazz Orchestra, held a conference at Lake Elkins to formulate plans to start a campaign for the purpose of raising funds to buy uniforms for the band. During the half of the basketball game between Davidson and Furman, which will be played on January 9, a novel appeal will be made before the student body urging them to raise funds in order to supply this equipment. The students will be asked to pledge their contributions at some near date.which will probably be before Christmas. These pledges will be paid after the holidays. Each class will be asked to raise a certain quota. These uniforms will not be worn by the R.O.T.C. band, but will be used to outfit a college band, which will represent Davidson at various functions. The band of the R.O.T.C. Department will form a nucleus of the college band, which will add color as well as music to the activities of the college.

“Y” Vespers December 9 Mark Climax of Annual Mission Campaign

Interest in the Mission of Frank Price for the support of China will reach its height Sunday night at Y-Vespers. “The Color Line” presented by a Davidson-Queens cast is expected to draw a crowd that will fill Sherer Hall. The production, a one-act play of present-day China, has won recognition as the best of its kind published last year. The scene is laid in the office of the President of a Western College; a Chinese student, disgusted with the Christianity of America, rejects his faith; his father in China is then encouraged to kill Dr. McKean, the missionary teacher who sent Chun to America. Barbara McKean, the missionary’s daughter, by a most dramatic display of courage and love, wins Chun for Christ and the heart of her lover for China. The play is an effective, inspiring, and marvelous combination of humor, pathos, life, and love in its highest and truest form.

Davidson is fortunate to have three representatives from the Y.W.C.A. of Queens College to play the girl parts of the play. The cast is as follows:
Henry Lawson — Glenn Frye
Miss King, his secretary — Miss Elizabeth White
Chun, a Chinese student — Zeb Long
Wanda, a college flapper — Miss Loula Boyd Beatty
Barbara, a missionary’s daughter — Miss Nancy Vincent.

(Continued on page 3)

Preston is Elected Head of Masquers

Meetings to be Held Twice a Month in Future

The Dramatic Club held a meeting last week and planned for a course throughout the year. The club has only been partly active in the last several years, although several efforts have been made to reestablish the club. The following officers were elected at the last meeting: J.Z. Preston, president; Stewart Meacham, business manager. The club plans to meet twice a month on Friday nights. At every meeting either a one-act play or some kind of program will be presented, and the public is cordially invited to attend, especially those not now members of the club who are interested in dramatics and wish to join. Sometime in the spring a three- or four-act play will be presented at which an admission charge will be made. If possible, the club plans to take a trip later in the spring. Professor Erwin is the faculty advisor of the club and was an important factor in its reorganization. Tomorrow night a play entitled “Moonshine” will be presented in Shearer Hall; it is a one-act comedy. The purpose of the presentation is to try out the talent of the members. All students interested in dramatics or wishing to join the club will see Stewart Meacham.

Debating Juniors to Present Revue December 15th

Talent in Junior Class to Take Leading Parts

On the night of December 15th, the Junior class will present the “Rainbow Revue” at seven-thirty in the evening. This revue is being directed by Murray Grier of Statesville. Mr. Grier has had much experience in this line, having produced several stage shows in Statesville, and he stated that the class seemed to have a lot of talent. Practice for the show started Monday night when Mr. Grier came down from Statesville and selected some men from the class to take part in the show. What parts are not supplied by the Junior class will come from Statesville, where the revue was produced a short time ago. The first part of this week will be given to the practice of the fundamentals and the real work will start the latter part of this week and next week, in time to be ready for production on the night of the fifteenth.

The “Rainbow Revue” is an entirely new type of show to Davidson. Although it has some of the features of a minstrel show, the revue is distinctly different, especially in the production and staging of novelties and features. One of the features is a bevy of beautiful girls, coming down from Statesville to take part in the show. The Davidson jazz orchestra will furnish music during the show. The scene will be laid in a cabaret, and there will be only one scene. The show lasts about one hour and a half, and there will be no drawing of the curtain except at the beginning and the end. Everything, according to Mr. Grier, will be run off in a smooth, orderly fashion; there will be no lagging.

(Continued on page 3)

Dr. Currie Heard by Cotton Manufacturers of N.C.

Speaks at Annual Banquet of Manufacturers Held at Pinehurst

Dr. Archibald Currie, of the Davidson faculty, was the principal speaker at the annual banquet of the Carolina Cotton Manufacturers’ Association held at the Carolina Hotel in Pinehurst, N.C., Friday evening, November 30th. Dr. Currie’s address was on the subject of “Business and Leadership” and was heard by about four hundred members of the association, gathered for the convention. The Cotton Manufacturers’ Association is probably the leading business organization in the state, and among those present were numbered a great many of the outstanding businessmen of North Carolina.

Looking into the future, Dr. Currie saw business as the key to world peace. Causes for war have been gradually eliminated by man, until there remain only those causes which may be classed as economic ones. “The problem of peace is an economic problem today, and the leader in bringing the world to a solution of that problem must be the businessman.” Therein, says Dr. Currie, lies the challenge for the businessman. “Mankind follows its leadership.” This has been true down through the ages, and the U.S. may be taken as a fitting example. Our nation has passed through three complete stages, the first of which began with the Colonial period when our forefathers looked to the cloth and were dominated by the clergy. Then came the Revolution, and with it, the lawyer. The lawyer soon became the central figure in our national life, and his era lasted until the Civil War, after which time there came a new leader, the teacher or educator. This leadership, however, was destined to be short-lived, and the teacher was soon supplanted by the businessman. This marked the beginning of a fourth stage, that in which we live today. “America has enthroned and acknowledged the businessman and follows him unresistingly along the way of progress.” This then, is the responsibility which confronts the businessman; he is the leader. Will he lead aright?

Twelve Men Selected To Constitute Varsity Team For ’29

Varsity Men of Last Year’s Team All Make Squad

Four Regular Teams

Judges of Try-Outs Held Tuesday Night Are Drs. J.M. MacConnell, C.K. Brown, and G.R. Vowles

Eight men and four alternates were selected in the debate trials Tuesday night, December 4, to compose the four varsity intercollegiate debating teams for the 1929 season. All four varsity men of the past season, W.L. Dumas, '29, C.R. Pritchett, '30, R.M. Christian, '30, and R.C. Grady, '29, were chosen to serve again, together with W.B. McGuire, '30, alternate of last season, E.E. Marsh, '30, J.C. Matthews, '31, and Z.V. Long, '30. These men will be divided into four teams at a later date, being paired according to the circumstances of preparation and debate. The four alternates were chosen in the following order: F.V. Poag, '30, W.E. Bailey, '29, A.R. Bird, '31, freshman debater of last year, and F.D. Miller, '30, alternate of the past season.

The query used in the trials was: “Resolved: That the Federal Government should own and operate the chief sources of hydro-electric power in the United States.” The affirmative proved to be the more popular side of the debate as it had thirteen supporters while the negative had only eight. The judges were Dr. J.M. McConnell, Dr. C.K. Brown, and Dr. G.R. Vowles. The twenty-one men who responded to the call for trials are given in the order in which they spoke: W.B. McGuire, affirmative; R.C. Grady, affirmative; F.G. Jenkins, affirmative; F.D. Miller, negative; J.W. MacCutchan, negative; W.J. Beavers, negative; Z.V. Long, affirmative; W.L. Dumas, affirmative; H.E. Russell, affirmative; E.E. Marsh, negative; D.F. Murphy, negative; C.R. Pritchett, negative; J.R. Graham, affirmative; A.R. Bird, Jr., affirmative; J.P. McBryde, affirmative; J.C. Matthews, affirmative; R.M. Christian, negative; W.H. Bailey, affirmative; H.A. Knox, affirmative; W.W. Harrison, negative; F.V. Poag, affirmative.

Rev. McElway Talks At Vespers Sunday

Former Aviator Speaks on “Wickedness of Folly”

At the Vespers last Sunday night, Rev. A.J. McElway, of Laurel Hill, N.C., former aviator in the World War and student at Hampden-Sidney, spoke, using his text Ecclesiastes 1:17—"I applied my heart to know the wickedness of folly.”

“Sin and folly, a sinner and a fool, each means the same thing,” Rev. McElway stated. “The Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke spoke almost entirely in terms of wisdom and folly and not of righteousness and sin. Only in the last of the four Gospels, John, is the theocratic term, sin, used. In fact, throughout the whole canon of Scripture, the term folly is used more than sin to express evil.”

“Today we are prone to separate these terms as far as meaning is concerned. For instance, some men are really proud of being called sinners while no one likes at all to be called a fool, although there is essentially no difference.”

“The terms ‘folly’ and ‘wisdom’ are therefore seen to have different meanings in the eyes of God and in the eyes of man. To get the right meaning one cannot take the verdict of the crowd. For instance, Wright making his first attempts to fly, and Fulton making his first trip in his steamboat, were each called fools by the crowd, but were they? The crowd proved to be the fool and not the minority.”

“There are,” said Rev. McElway, “in my mind, two great sins from which all others begin. They are, first, the sin of living independent of God. Even though we admit that there is a God and profess Him, yet we attempt to live without Him.”

(Continued on page 6)