October 18, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

‘BULL DOGS NEXT — GET ’EM, CATS!

CAT TRAX AS THEY FOLLOW THE RED AND BLACK
By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Just to bring an upset home to Davidson, Tommy Scaffe and his rejuvenated Terriers from Wofford threw the proverbial monkey wrench square into the hopes of Younger’s men, and proved conclusively that somebody besides the Wildcats is apt to spring surprises. Heretofore people have looked to the men from Davidson to pull the sport upheavals, and so it comes sort of hard for the eagle to come down to the sparrow’s estate. That’s exactly what happened Saturday, for the Terriers tamed the Wildcats in approved fashion. Credit where credit is due, and a large portion of the credit for Saturday’s exhibition must be given to that heavy and speedy forward wall which represented Wofford. Time after time those big boys tore great holes in the lighter Davidson line for their backs to scoot through, and on defense they presented a well-nigh impregnable front to the charges of the Wildcat forwards. Four men of 195 pounds each helped the Terrier line to outweigh the 'Cats some 16 pounds to the man. It was easily the best Wofford team in years. It was also the first Wofford team to defeat Davidson in all of the twenty-five years that the two elevens have been playing each other.

BOWL OVER ’CATS FOR 7-0 VICTORY
Heavy Terrier Line Holds Back Wildcat Attacks—Visitors Score in Final Quarter

BLACK STARS BOWL OVER TERRIERS
Davidson Threatens in Second Half, But Touchdown Drive Fails—Flinn and Kell Make Good Runs

For three periods the Davidson Wildcats and the Wofford Terriers hammered and clawed, with honors about even, in a gruelling grid battle. In the final quarter Wofford shoved over the only score of the game for their first victory over the 'Cats in the history of the school. The Terriers threatened in the first few minutes of play when Turbyville’s kickoff was fumbled by a Davidson back and recovered by a Wofford player on Davidson's one-yard line. Wofford drew a penalty for offside and the ball went over as the Davidson team rallied to beat back the Wofford charge. The remainder of this period was featured by the punting of Brock, for Davidson, and Oates, for Wofford, with the Terrier punter getting the best in the exchange. One of his punts went for 74 yards, over the Davidson goal line. To Dick Flinn goes the longest run of this period.

There were no long runs or steady marches by either team in the second quarter. Again punting was the chief mode of attack with Oates again out-punting Brock. Both teams were penalized for offside frequently in this period.

The third quarter brought the Davidson stands to their feet when the Wildcats made their biggest threat of the game. Kell swept around left end for a 21-yard gain, Flinn added 18 on a similar play. Again Kell went around the same end for 16 yards to place the ball on Wofford’s 12-yard line. Two line plays and a pass spoiled the drive.

Sambo Black was Davidson's shining light. This member of Davidson's largest football family bore the brunt of the home team’s tackling, and many a Terrier got through the first line, only to find Sambo parked and waiting on him.

CLASS BASKETBALL INTER-CLASS TRACK TO GET UNDER WAY MEET WILL BE HELD
Class basketball gets off to a start tonight with a double header. The Seniors meet the Sophomores and the Juniors engage the Freshmen. The several squads have been working hard for two weeks now, and consequently are in good shape. Little can be said about the actual outcome of these contests tonight. Each game will be hard fought, and in these early games it may be that the team in the best physical trim will win. Last year’s championship was won by the Sophomores.

Schedule for class basketball:
Oct. 18—Seniors vs. Sophs; Juniors vs. Freshmen.
Oct. 23—Seniors vs. Fresh; Juniors vs. Sophs.
Oct. 25—Seniors vs. Juniors; Sophs vs. Fresh.
Oct. 30—Seniors vs. Sophs; Juniors vs. Fresh.
Nov. 2—Seniors vs. Fresh; Juniors vs. Sophs.
Nov. 7—Seniors vs. Juniors; Sophs vs. Fresh.

On November 3rd, an inter-class track meet will be held here at Davidson, the purpose of which is to get track aspirants in good condition for the meets this spring; and also enable each man to keep up better with fall practice. Prizes will be awarded to winners of first, second and third places, these to be given in all the regular events and in two other special events, the latter for those who have never placed in any collegiate or scholastic track meet.

At the present time, there are only a few men out for the weights and just two or three running the mile and half-mile. Work is being done daily on the track, and the managers expect to get the track in as good condition as possible for the inter-class meet. A fair showing is expected of all those who will take part in the meet, as this will be a good tryout in preparation for the other meets of the season.

Davidson has had no fall track events in past years. The coming of Captain Pritchett and his promotion of the fall track plan should do a great deal to develop cindermen for the varsity. Freshmen as well as upperclassmen are able to take part.

BIG TEN GAMES
The nation’s interest in football is centered for the coming week-end in the Big Ten conference where four games are scheduled for Saturday, October 20. Michigan, not at all the mighty Michigan of the past few years, goes to Columbus to play Ohio State, a much rejuvenated Ohio State, and the odds for the game are with the buckeye squad.

General interest is also shown by Eastern football teams. Lafayette plays at Bucknell, Washington-Jefferson goes to Pittsburgh to play Carnegie Tech; Columbia plays Dartmouth at Hanover.

Former V. P. I. star, Buck Miles, will take his Freshman charges to Wofford Friday.

SOPHOMORE FLANKMAN WARREN DAVID
Soph End, will start his fourth varsity game against Citadel Saturday.Classic of the East probably will be the Harvard-Army game at Cambridge. Neither team has as yet demonstrated its ability this year. Flinn continued to prove that, given the holes, they will go many yards, while Thad Brock played his usual steady game on the left flank. Thank goodness those Terriers are gone for another year at least. Maybe the Cats aren’t gaining though, because this week an assignment apparently just as hard is staring them in the face. Down Charleston way the Citadel Cadets haven’t forgotten that 5-0 defeat of last year, and it’s a cinch that when the Wildcats get in the Bulldogs’ backyard there is going to be a scrap worth traveling miles to see. It will be the first time that a Davidson football team has played in Charleston. By all laws of average, the ’Cats are due to lick the Cadets. South Carolina teams so far have proved to be regular Jonahs for Monk’s boys. We weren't so surprised at a loss to Clemson, but when Wofford gets ambitious and hands out lickings right and left, then we begin to get wary of all those Sandlapper schools. It will take all the fight and pep the team can show to cop that game, but we believe they are going to do it. Stand by and see.

A week from Saturday will see the Cats meeting their age-old rivals from Wake Forest. After a bad start, the Deacons are rounding into form. They held William and Mary to a scoreless tie last week. Now is the time to get the pep going for that game. This year the game goes back to Charlotte. Four tie games in a row would be too many, so something must be done about it this year. Hope the Cats are the ones to do whatever is done.

The “Cat Trax” dope bucket was somewhat upset this week, but we're not discouraged, and so shall try again. Here they are: Clemson over Erskine; Wofford over Newberry; Davidson over Citadel; Virginia over V. M. I.; N. C. State over Wake Forest; Carolina over V. P. I.; Navy over Duke; Alabama over Tennessee; Georgia over Furman. Here’s a tough one to dope, but we pick Georgia Tech over Notre Dame.

Scandinavian Center
Minneapolis, Minn., Oct. 17 (AP)—Suggestion has been made, and is being considered by the board of regents, that the University of Minnesota establish a Scandinavian museum on the campus as a repository and center for the dissemination of Scandinavian culture.

Another pass, Brock to Flinn, failed to net a first down by inches and the ball went over. Oates punted out of danger and Davidson's hopes were blasted. Starting a drive in the last period, the Terriers crossed the Davidson line after a hectic march down the field. The chief means of the Terrier attack was through the air, catching the Davidson team off its guard, and resulting in the only score of the game. Penalties were suffered by both teams during this drive. With the ball on their own three-yard line, the Davidson defense tightened and held for two downs, all to no avail, as Finney dodged around right end for a touchdown. Dargan booted a pretty place-kick to add the extra point. Time and time again Wofford backs hurled through the line only to be stopped by the Davidson backfield. Sam Black, fullback for Davidson, was in the midst of every play, getting many tackles with deadly accuracy. Brock, left end for the ’Cats, also starred on the defense besides upholding the punting department.

The lineup and summary:
Wofford Position Davidson
Ring Left End Brock
Oates Left Tackle Baker (c)
Smith Left Guard King, R.
McConnell, R. Center Turbyville
Harper Right Guard McConnell, T.
David Right Tackle McGee
Kennedy Right End McMillan
Nacksot Quarterback Brohard
Adams Left Halfback Kell
Finney Right Halfback Black
Wofford 7-7 Davidson 0-0
Scoring touchdown: Wofford, Finney; extra point: Wofford, Dargan; substitutes: Wofford—Jones for Adams, Gibson for Turbyville, Brown for McGee, Inatini for King, Player for King. Davidson—Flinn for McMillan, Archie for T. McConnell, Decamp for Harper, Fraley for Brohard, Mason for McConnell, Parker for Smith, Covington for Parker, Regen for Covington, McMillan for Fraley, Parker for Decamp, Middleton for David, Estridge for Black, Parrish for Estridge, Leftwich for Regan, Mason for R. McConnell, Mills for Smith. First downs: Wofford 6, Davidson 8; penalties: Wofford total 50 yards, Davidson total 45 yards. Officials: Hartsell (N. C. State), referee; Fros (Citadel), umpire; Rawson (Ga.), headlinesman.

Iowa plays Ripon for a mid-season practice encounter. Rutgers will play at New York University, Penn State will play her old rival the University of Pennsylvania at Philadelphia, Pittsburgh will entertain Allegheny, Lehigh will furnish easy prey for Princeton. Brown and Northwestern will entertain Kentucky at Evanston in an intersectional conflict. Yale probably will have a close game. Syracuse goes to Nebraska in an intersectional contest.

As Southern football enters the fray Saturday, October 20, several interesting events are scheduled. Tennessee will play Alabama in the far southern state. Furman will make a furious attempt to upset Georgia. A nationally interesting game will take place between Notre Dame and Georgia Tech at Atlanta. Rice goes over to Southern Methodist; Arkansas engages Texas in the Lone Star state; Texas Christian plays at Texas Aggies, and Duke will enter Navy territory for a profitable win.

ON THE EVE OF THE WORLD’S SERIES
Three Triumphant Yankees conduct the Blindfold test... and MILLER HUGGINS picks OLD GOLD
The Babe and Lou here will tell you that there is only one way to choose a pitcher... and that’s to send him into the box and let him twirl a few innings. So the best way to choose a cigarette is to put them all through their paces in the blindfold test. In the test I have just made, OLD GOLD played right into my mitt. Its zippy flavor and mellow smoothness couldn’t be touched by the other three brands. Made from the heart-leaves of the tobacco plant.

In the dressing room at Navin Field in Detroit, Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig gave the blindfold cigarette test to Manager Miller Huggins. The famous Yankee pilot was asked to smoke each of the four leading brands, clearing his taste with coffee between smokes. Only one question was asked, “which one do you like best?”
SMOOTHER AND BETTER —“NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD”