Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN October 18, 1928

Oxford Offers Fine B.A. English Course
By A. C. Valentine
Assistant Professor of English at Swarthmore College, and Assistant to the American Secretary to the Rhodes Trust

The course in Oxford University which leads to a B.A. with Honours in the English Language and Literature involves probably the most thorough undergraduate survey of its subject offered in any university at the present time. Although the final examination allows the individual considerable freedom of choice, it demands in any case broad general knowledge of British literature from Beowulf to the present time, a good understanding of the chief rules of philology and their application in the history of the English language, a reading knowledge of Anglo-Saxon and Middle English, and a specialist knowledge of certain periods considerably deeper than those demanded by the average American college degree.

Such requirements permit few real gaps in the student’s knowledge of English, and many an American holder of an M.A. in English finds his knowledge woefully piecemeal and chaotic when faced with the exactions of Oxford honour final exams. But no holder of a B.A. in English from an American university or college of good standing need feel unduly discouraged by the Oxford course, if he is prepared to work diligently and without dismay for two or three years in preparation for his degree at Oxford. He will find that, by intelligently planned work, he has but to fill in the gaps of his knowledge of literature to master the requirements, provided, of course, that the requirements in philology, which can be reduced to a minimum and almost memorized, and he is ready for the Oxford “schools.”

To be sure, if he expects first class honours, he must do more than this. Men who have taught and studied English literature at Oxford believe there is no more difficult school in which to get a “first,” and certainly “firsts” in English are rare enough, particularly among Americans. For a “first” demands a foundation of real knowledge and thought, upon which is erected a structure of original interpretation and some distinction of style. Such a combination of merits is impossible of attaining to some, but hardly beyond the just ambition of a serious student with an American undergraduate career of distinction behind him.

Even if he misses a “first” and wins a degree with second or third honours (both of which carry real honor in the wake), he will have had a training under some of the best tutors and lecturers in England and America, and have gained a broad general knowledge of English literature superior to many an American Ph.D., who, from specializing in a narrow field, has scamped his general study of the subject he professes. It is difficult to conceive a better foundation than the Oxford Honour School upon which an American student may later, with infinitely greater ease, erect the gorgeous panoply of advanced degrees.

Specifically, the final examination, on which the class of honours and the degree itself depend almost entirely, consists of nine three-hour examination papers selected from a list of 13 periods and subjects. The average American student makes a selection which reduces his study of philology and Old English to minimums, and usually chooses four of his papers from literature since Shakespeare’s time. In these papers the candidates are expected to show a good knowledge of the social and political background of the time. They may also offer a special subject or a dissertation, which must be approved by the board of the faculty, but neither of these is necessary for the attainment of highest honours.

In spite of the exigencies of the requirements, no place could be more ideal for the study of English literature than Oxford. Guided by daily and frequently familiar contact with great professors like George Gordon, N. Nichol Smith, Percy Simpson, and W. A. Craigie; inspired by the beauty and the literary traditions of the old city of Oxford and its green countryside, where Addison’s walk and Shelley’s retreats and the Scholar Gypsies’ trail are still little altered; aided by the priceless libraries of Bodley and the daily possibility of meeting Masefield, Bridges, Chesterton, or John Buchan walking on High Street—to the American student Oxford sometimes seems an almost unbelievable place. Returning to America with an Oxford degree to his credit, he will realize, valuable though it is, how much more than that degree he has received from his two or three years’ stay in that old yet exciting city.

She—“If you men would just stop looking at us girls in short skirts, we'd stop wearing them.”
He—“Yes; I suppose you'd have to do something drastic.”

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Eumanean Society
The feature of the program of the Eumanean Literary Society was a debate on Trial by Jury. The subject was, “Resolved, That Trial by Jury be Abolished.” The meeting was held on last Thursday night, October 11. Burch and Haney supported the negative side, against Lea and Rule, who supported the affirmative side of the question. The negative side won the debate. T. M. Lemly gave an interesting talk on the “Byrd Antarctic Expedition.” The critic, in his review, stated that the talk was evidently well prepared. A pseudo-declamation was given by J. C. Matthews, and to complete the program W. J. Beavers gave a feature article. The program for tonight will be a mock-trial, the details of which have not yet been completed. The program committee, however, promises that it will be interesting as well as instructive.

Philanthropic Society
The subject for debate in the Philanthropic Society was, “Resolved, That a uniform system of marriage and divorce laws should be enacted by National Legislation.” The affirmative side of the query was supported by Lawrence and Hall. The opposing team, upholding the negative side, consisted of Knox and Randolph. The decision upon the merits of the question was given by a vote of the house. In this vote the house voted as favoring the negative side of the question.

Concert Orchestra Has First Practice
Wednesday afternoon the concert orchestra held its first rehearsal of the year. This year the orchestra is one step nearer its ideal—a Symphony Orchestra—than it was last year, for a cello has been added to the group. It is planned to create a fund, starting with this year, so that new instruments can be bought each year, thus enabling the orchestra to acquire in a few years all the needed instruments for a Symphony Orchestra. The repertoire of the orchestra this year will include the following selections: Cavalleria Rusticana, Mascagni; War March of the Priests, Mendelssohn; and Schubert’s Serenade.

SCOTT IS PROMOTED
(Continued from page 1)
take command of the Davidson unit. Lieut.-Col. Scott is a native of Indianapolis, Ind., having been born there in the year 1881. It will be remembered that Captain Otto received his promotion from lieutenant, while in his first year at Davidson—last year.

Committee Appointed To Report on Church
Report to Cover Need and Possibility of New Church for Davidson
At the meeting of the Synod of North Carolina, held in Maxton last week, several important actions were taken. One of chief interest to the Davidson student body and to the townspeople is the appointment of a committee to investigate and to report to the next meeting of the Synod the need and possibility of securing an adequate church building for the Davidson College Church. This committee is composed of Dr. C. E. Raynal, of Statesville; Dr. A. S. Johnson, of Charlotte; Dr. D. Clay Lilly, of Winston-Salem; Mr. John Sprunt Hill, of Durham; and Mr. C. W. Norfleet, of Winston-Salem. All of these men are vitally interested in Davidson, residing nearby, and several have been speakers at the “Y” vespers.

Dr. Lacy B. Little, of the Kiangyin, China, Mission Station, was elected moderator of the Synod meeting. At this meeting the Synod declined to request the various Presbyteries controlling the four women’s colleges within its bounds to place them under Synodical control. A committee was appointed to co-operate with the West Raleigh Church, which ministers to the students of that community, toward the erection of a new building.

Among the most important actions of the Synod were the election of a Committee of Synod’s Work, consisting of 27 members, three from each constituent Presbytery. This committee is to be divided into a series of sub-committees having the direction of the varied departments of the Synod’s activities. Dr. A. D. P. Gilmour, of Wilmington, was made chairman of this committee. The representatives from the Concord Presbytery are Dr. A. R. White, of Mooresville; Dr. A. A. McLean, of Lenoir; and Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, of the Davidson Church.

Dr. E. E. Gillespie, of Greensboro, formerly

TROWBRIDGE WILL TEACH MUSIC HERE
Professor Cullum Again Secures Musician toTeach Classes Here

Professor Cullum states that he has again secured Mr. R. W. Trowbridge, of Mooresville, to give private lessons twice a week in wind and stringed instruments. Mr. Trowbridge, who has studied in the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music, taught at Davidson for two days a week last year and had several pupils. A room on the first floor of Eu Hall has been provided for Mr. Trowbridge’s use. Those who wish to study under him may get further details from Professor Cullum. The Music department of the college is sponsoring this private instruction until an instructor in practical music can be added to the faculty. Professor Cullum announced that this may be in the very near future, for a movement is already on foot to have an instructor in pipe organ for next year and to give college credit for work done in that line. In case such an instructor is added to the faculty, the new $20,000 pipe organ which will be installed in the new auditorium will be used for practice.

JUST A LITTLE DOPE

North Carolina suffered the worst defeat among Davidson's opponents. Harvard scored 20 points in the second quarter to win 20 to 0. Citadel won by the largest score, defeating Newberry 32 to 6. Following are the results of the games played last week: Duke, 0; Boston, 19. Elon, 12; Catawba, 13. Citadel, 32; Newberry, 6. V. M. I, 31; Roanoke, 0. U.N.C., 0; Harvard, 20. N. C. State, 0; Clemson, 7. The schedule of Davidson's opponents for next week is listed below. Pick the winners:

Guilford vs. Lynchburg, at Lynchburg.
Clemson vs. Erskine, at Clemson.
Wofford vs. Newberry, at Sumter.
Citadel vs. Davidson, at Charleston.
V. M. I. vs. U. of Va., at Lexington.
N. C. State vs. Wake Forest, at Raleigh.
U.N.C. vs. V. P. I, at Chapel Hill.
Duke vs. Navy, at Annapolis.

Too Many Johnsons

Memphis, Tenn., Oct. 17—(IP)—The business department of Southwestern College seems to bear the name “General Wisdom.” The department reports that people from all over Memphis call upon it for general information. “Does Tech high school have a telephone?” was a recent phone call query. A colored woman called the other day and asked, “Does you have a Mr. Johnson at your school?” “We have several, but what are his initials?” she was asked. “I jest don’t know,” she replied, “because there are so many Johnsons.”

Kansans Construct Glider

Lawrence, Kans., Oct. 17—(IP)—Under the direction of Prof. E. D. Hay, five students in the department of mechanical engineering at the University of Kansas are constructing a glider for tests in the aeronautical field.

Home Missions and Stewardship, was elected Executive Secretary of the Synod's Work Committee, and Mr. C. T. Carr, of Mooresville, was re-elected Director of Religious Education, Superintendent of My, you need a haircut. Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real College haircut. He has three real barbers.

NORTON BROS. in Postoffice block—Three first-class workmen

STOP! WILDCAT CAFE HOME COOKED FOOD OPEN TILL 11 P.M.

With The Other Colleges

Jap Frosh Shows How

Toronto, Ont., Oct. 17—(IP)—The first fracas of the season between sophomores and freshmen occurred at Victoria College, in the University of Toronto. This was of a nature altogether apart from the customary tapping, bed-dumping, and horse-play. A Japanese student, M. Akiyama, who has spent some time at Albert College, Belleville, became involved with five sophomores in regard to styles of wearing the conventional tie, and in the course of the argument is variously reported to have laid out cold from one to five. A fellow freshman of Mr. Akiyama’s informs the Intercollegiate Press that the five sophomores, in number, set upon Akiyama in an effort to shear his tie as a penalty for wearing it within his vest. They succeeded, but Mr. Akiyama, not versed in western ways, resented the attempt and laid about him with a few jiu-jitsu tricks (in which he is an expert) and knocked out one of the sophomores. One of the blows, reports say, was not according to the rules laid down by the Marquis of Queensbury, and the unfortunate second-year man had to be carried to his residence, and has been spending some time in bed. Akiyama claims, however, that the blow was perfectly in accord with jiu-jitsu regulations, and alleges that a man has the privilege of defending himself according to the rules of his own people. Akiyama points to the fact that he is a Christian, son of a Buddhist father and a Christian mother.

How Much Interest?

Syracuse, N.Y., Oct. 17—(IP)—Do political speeches interest newspaper readers? An answer to this question was supplied by students in the Department of Journalism at Syracuse University, according to the Syracuse Daily Orange, after they had made a survey of the matter. Each student was assigned 10 persons to interview. The list was varied so that the survey would represent a fair viewpoint of the citizens. In the professional class, teachers, doctors, lawyers, ministers, and instructors were included. Housewives, students, business men, politicians, policemen, and laborers were also among those interviewed. Ministers were most vitally interested, politicians second, and lawyers third. Of 130 people interviewed, only 38 were interested to any great extent. Forty-one were not interested at all, and 51 were interested in that they read until the speeches became boresome. A number of persons interviewed were radio fans, but the majority of those declared they tuned in the political speeches for a certain length of time, but they turned on when they became tiresome, a turn of the dial brought something more interesting. One man professed a deep interest in the campaign and bought all the important newspapers to impartially consider all candidates. Another man was bored with politics and never read any political material.

Twenty-Five Years Later

Middleton, Conn., Oct. 17—(IP)—The experimental work of Dr. Carney Landis, of Wesleyan University, and Lawrence W. Phelps, ’28, was reviewed in a recent issue of The Literary Digest, revealing that guessing a man’s vocation and ability by his photograph is generally impossible. The article states that photographs of a group of 40 college graduates were taken at graduation, and again 25 years later. These photographs were shown to psychology students to see if they could ascertain the occupations, and the comparative success of the various individuals. In no case was the verdict of the observers unanimous. A successful engineer was classified by half the students as a clergyman—and the class voted six to four that he was successful. Some subjects were assigned to as many as 15 separate vocations. The conclusion from the experiment, Dr. Landis would have us believe, should be that sending a photograph with an application for a job is useless.

No Parking Here

Minneapolis, Minn., Oct. 17—(IP)—W. F. Holman, newly appointed superintendent of buildings and grounds at the University of Minneapolis, has threatened to bar all student automobiles from the campus unless the students stop disregarding traffic and parking rules of the university.

PERMANENT Representation in Davidson of The International Tailoring Co. of New York, Chicago, and Montreal By WM. A. ALL SUITS HAND-TAILORED By A. GHRSKOYV 30 Years Experience FORMERLY WITH TATE-BROWN CO., OF CHARLOTTE Here in Davidson QUALITY AND STYLE At An Amazingly Low Cost 212 WEST REMBERT

Good Values At In Stationery Davidson Book & Stationery Co. Parker Pens Note Books New Victor, Columbia and Okeh Records Every Week Yours For Instant Soda Service Nunnally Candies Records Make Our Store Your Headquarters “EVERYTHING THE STUDENT NEEDS”

Davidson Theatre

Monday, October 22nd “The Air Circus” with All Star Cast

Tuesday, October 23rd BEBE DANIELS In “Take Me Home”

Wednesday, October 24th WILLIAM BOYD in “Power”

Thursday, October 25th RICHARD DIX In “Moran of the Marines”

Friday, October 26th “The Haunted House” All star cast

Saturday, October 27th TOM TYLER in “Captain Careless”