THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 19, 1928

ALUMNI PERSONALS

M. H. Caldwell, Jr., ’15, of Jackson, Miss., son of M. H. Caldwell, Sr., ’82, of Concord, was seriously and
painfully injured Monday night, January 9th, near New Albany, Miss., when a touring car driven by a negro man struck
him as he was changing a tire during a slight snow storm. Two fingers were broken, one wrist was sprained,
bruises were prevalent over his entire body, and there were painful lacerations on his arms and face. Mr. Caldwell was
knocked twenty feet and was unconscious for some minutes. Later reports stated that he would completely recover.

Chase Brenizer, ’90, has been elected a member of the Charlotte School Board.

Rev. Egbert W. Smith, D.D., ’82, of Nashville, Tenn., and Rev. W. M. Fairley, D.D., '95, of Raeford, are now
in the midst of a series of meetings at Greensboro, Graham, and Jonesboro. Both are leading speakers on the programs.

Col. S. R. Bingham, ’88, headmaster of the Bingham Military School, in Asheville, recently underwent an operation at Johns Hopkins
Hospital, Baltimore. Newspaper reports stated that he was improving.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of Mrs. John B. Alexander, wife of J. B. Alexander, ’88, of
Charlotte, and of the death of the father of W. H. Cromwell '25, of Florence, Ala.

R. U. Woods, ’23, of Charlotte, has gone to Hartford, Conn., where he will address a meeting of the Association
of Conference Presidents and Executives of the Group department of the Aetna Life Insurance Company. Mr. Woods is president of
the southern association.

C. A. Mountcastle, '18, of Lexington, N. C., who for several years has been assistant cashier of the Bank of
Lexington, has been elected cashier.

Mr. and Mrs. T. F. Staley, of Louisville, Ky., are receiving congratulations upon the arrival of a daughter, Janet Wallace,
in December. Mr. Staley graduated from Davidson in 1925.

Geo. W. Coan, Jr., ‘11, has been elected to the Y. M. C. A. board of Winston-Salem. S. Clay Williams,
’06, and J. Edward Johnston, '14, are former members of the “Y” board of that city.

Master Oren Moore, Jr., son of Dr. Oren Moore, Sr., ’08, of Charlotte, was recently accidentally shot in his left
eye, but has been able to leave the hospital. While his eye is still in a serious condition, the attending
surgeons hope to be able to save it. Thomas Moore, also a son of Dr. Moore, recently underwent a tonsil
operation.

Clarence Rankin, ’87, has been elected vice-president and a director of the Central Bank & Trust Co., of Asheville; Ruffner
Campbell, ’10, and J. M. Westall, ‘11, are both directors of the Asheville branch of the Wachovia Bank and Trust
Co.; C. A. Cannon, ‘15, of Concord; Col. F. H. Fries, '74, of Winston-Salem, and J. Edward Johnston, ‘14, of
Baltimore, have been re-elected directors of the Wachovia system, and Col. Fries was also re-elected president of that bank system.

The oldest inhabited castle in Scotland is that of Dunvegan in the Isle of Skye. After being lighted by tapers,
torches, and candles for nearly a thousand years, it has now been wired for electricity.

We have at all times a complete stock of New Orthophonic Victrolas and Brunswick Panatropes. Also Victor and Brunswick Records.
A Complete Line of RCA Radios from $69.50 to $895. Parker-Gardner Co.

Every Friday Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N. C. CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS WHOLESALE

When You Need Candy See Us 26-28 S. College St. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Local Office Indicates Plans For Issuance of New Alumni Quarterly Will Act as Medium of Communication for Widely Scattered Alumni
of Davidson

BIDS RECEIVED To Be Issued Four Times a Year to Contain Feature Articles

Recognizing the need of a medium of communication with alumni in widely scattered sections of the nation, and believing that
a magazine containing items of interest to former students of the college will make for closer co-ordination of alumni, local
secretaries of the Davidson College Alumni Association announced this week their intention of publishing an alumni quarterly, the first issue
to appear as soon as contracts for printing can be let and material secured.

A number of North Carolina printing houses have signified their desire to bid on this work, and negotiations are now
under way to perfect a contract which will make possible the publication of the Davidson Alumni Quarterly. It is said
that the first issue will appear as soon as material has been received, probably March 1st, although contracts will not
be awarded until advertisements sufficient to pay for the cost of the magazine have been secured.

The Quarterly, which will be issued once every three months in the year, will contain special articles on timely topics
by alumni, faculty, and students of the college; in addition to photographs, and personals. The magazine, as planned, will contain
approximately twenty pages an issue, and will be bound in a two-color glazed magazine binder.

The Davidson Quarterly will be modeled along the same lines as the alumni publications of the University of Chicago, Johns
Hopkins, the University of North Carolina, and Duke, with additional features not contained by any of these publications.

WILDKITTENS MEET NINE (Continued from page 2)

Wake Forest—February 2, here (pending). Statesville—February 6, here (pending). Charlotte High—February 8, here (pending). Oak Ridge—February 14, there. Duke—February 15,
there. Wake Forest—February 16, there. State—February 17, there. Bingham—February 23, here. Catawba—February 10, there (pending). State—(Date pending, here).

A SPRINKLER HEAD will CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLEIssue of the Quarterly will discharge over 1,000 gallons of water in 30 minutes, or
about 35 gallons in 60 seconds. No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our SPRINKLER LEAKAGE POLICY. The
cost is a trifle compared with the protection.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

A recent article appearing in the Wilmington Star described the beautiful wedding of Rev. Lawrence G. Calhoun, '20, and Miss
Eliza McKay Whitted, which was solemnized at the First Presbyterian Church of Wilmington last Friday evening at 5:30 o'clock. The
ceremony was performed by Dr. A. D. P. Gilmour, assisted by Dr. J. L. Fairly, ’05. Mrs. Calhoun is the
lovely daughter of Mr. and Mrs. D. C. Whitted, and is one of the most attractive young ladies of the
eastern section of North Carolina. Mr. Calhoun, who graduated from Davidson in the Class of ‘20, later attended Union Theological
Seminary to prepare for work in the mission fields of South America. Following the marriage ceremony, the bride and groom
left on an extensive motor tour to the north. They will sail during the latter part of January for South
America, where they will make their home in Lavras, Brazil.

Frederick Smith, ex-’24, of Mt. Airy, was married to Miss Eleanor Hill, of Kinston, in a lovely wedding ceremony which
was performed in the Gordon Street Church of Christ at Kinston in the late afternoon of January 4, with Dr.
Crory, pastor of the church, officiating. The bride, a young woman of beauty and charm, and a member of one
of Kinston’s leading families, graduated from N. C. C. W., following which she was a teacher of music in the
public schools of Kinston. Mr. Smith, the son of Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Smith, attended both Davidson and N.
C. State Colleges and is now a member of the firm of Smith Brothers at Mt. Airy.

FREEDOM OF THE PRESS

Two students at the University of California, Fred C. Foy, editor of the Daily Californian, and Brooks Darlington, president of
a journalistic society, have been subjected to presidential discipline for suggesting that high finance may not be unknown on a
university campus. The Daily Californian gave impetus by a news item to a charge developed in Razberry Press, vermillion-hued organ
of the journalists, that a member of the faculty had palmed off onto the University his home for a price
far beyond its worth. Dean Hart was chairman of a faculty committee that recommended the purchase of his residence for
$45,000, to be used as the new Rockefeller International House. The Razberry Press insisted that the dean’s house was valued
at $20,000, and suggested that the academician had made a nice deal. President W. W. Campbell denied the insinuations, and
said the price had been fixed by appraisers. He then proceeded to threaten censorship for the outspoken paper, and punishment
of the editors involved.—The New Student.

ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

Geo. W. Coan, Alumnus Resigns As Bank Head
Davidson Alumnus Withdraws to Devote Time to Private Interests

Word has just reached Davidson through the press of the state that George W. Coan, Jr., '11, pioneer industrial banker
of Winston-Salem, will resign from the presidency of the Morris Plan Bank of that city on February 15th to devote
his entire time to the private interests of his father and himself. Mr. Coan, assisted by his father and a
local board of directors, organized the Morris Plan Bank in Winston-Salem in July, 1927, with a capital stock of $40,000.
This was the first industrial bank to locate in Winston-Salem, and its progress has been hardly short of phenomenal. From
a capital of $40,000 ten years ago, the bank under the direction of Mr. Coan has grown until it today
boasts capital stock to the amount of $100,000, the increase having been occasioned by the demands of a growing city.
The surplus and undivided profits of the bank, according to its December statement, totaled $17,576.81, after deducting 10 percent in
dividends paid for the year 1927. Mr. Coan, who graduated from Davidson in 1911, has been honored several times by
the National Association of Morris Plan Industrial Banks, having been elected twice to the Board of Governors of the national
association. At the last meeting, Mr. Coan was elected one of the seven members of the executive committee, being the
only southern man elected to the committee in several years.

Book and Stationery Co. is Latest Concern Here
Operated by Former Students of the University of North Carolina

On January the twelfth, the Davidson Book and Stationery Company was opened in the store owned by W. S. Henderson.
This store will be managed by K. W. Mosely, L. H. Gooch, and G. E. Ashley who were former students
of the University of North Carolina. Before coming here, they had a store similar to the one here at Chapel
Hill. This store has already become popular for many of our students. Its purpose is to cater to the needs
and whims of the students and the motto is “Service and Quality.” The Davidson Book and Stationery Company will handle
all the popular magazines, kodaks, victrola records, and a complete line of student supplies.

“No, Jack, people would say you had married me for my money.”
“But, dear, why should we care what they say if you have enough to support us?”—C. C. N. Y. Mercury.

“Was your party a success?”
“I'll say so. There was half a pint left over.”—California Pelican.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.
