ah) Mn THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1928

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Rev. J. R. Woods, ’18, who has been professor of missions at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., for the past four years, will leave soon for Elsa, Texas, where he will do home mission work in the Rio Grande valley. Mr. Woods has been connected with the seminary since his graduation there in 1924 with the highest honors.

An invitation has been received in the alumni office to attend the centennial celebration of Columbia Theological Seminary, at Atlanta, Ga., May 20th to May 23rd. Rev. R. T. Gillespie, D.D., ’04, is president of this institution. Rev. K. M. Fraser, D.D., ’76, of Staunton, Va., will deliver the baccalaureate sermon to open the graduating exercises of that seminary. Davidson alumni who will complete their theological work at Columbia are J. M. Richards, ’22, and Claude McIntosh, ’26.

Dr. Charles C. Orr, ’95, of Asheville, has been elected governor for the eleventh district of Optimist International, at the convention held recently in Asheville. This district comprises all Optimist clubs in North and South Carolina.

Rev. J. C. Rowan, D.D., ’04, of Concord, will preach the baccalaureate sermon of East Carolina Teachers’ College, on Sunday, June 3rd. J. Bayard Clark, '05, of Fayetteville, will deliver the commencement address on Monday, June 5th.

H. L. Shelby, who is at the Alabama Military Institute, will attend Duke next year and has been announced as assistant in Biology.

Rev. Neal L. Anderson, D.D., ’80, of the Independent Presbyterian Church, Savannah, Ga., will tour western Europe this summer via commercial lines, and upon completion of his air tour will write a series of articles entitled, “With Wings, a Bird’s-eye View of Western Europe.” The Sunday Journal and Sentinel, of Winston-Salem, has announced that they have exclusive North Carolina rights to these articles. Dr. Anderson, a trustee of Davidson, will attend the meeting here May 29th, and will take part in the cornerstone exercises that afternoon.

Rev. C. G. Long, ’21, of Albemarle, was elected temporary clerk of Mecklenburg Presbytery at its recent meeting, when the opening sermon was preached by Rev. J. M. Walker. Among the commissioners elected to the General Assembly meeting in Atlanta was Rev. C. H. Rowan, '15, of Paw Creek. Dr. W. J. Martin, ’88, president of Davidson, also attended and spoke on behalf of the college.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of Mrs. R. D. Stimson, mother of Rev. R. M. Stimson, ’08, of Chattanooga, Tenn. Mrs. Stimson’s death occurred last week at the home of her son, and her body was brought to Statesville, her old home, where interment took place Sunday.

Rev. J. M. Walker, '07, of Charlotte, preached the baccalaureate sermon to the graduates of St. Peter’s Hospital last Sunday.

J. A. Gaither, ’95, has been re-elected to succeed himself as a town commissioner of Newton.

New addresses recently obtained are:
M. C. Martin, ’88, 818 Kayton Ave., San Antonio, Texas.
P. B. Carwile, Bethlehem, Pa.
J. G. Smith, '94, 1221 25th St., Sacramento, California.
Rev. J. W. Witherspoon, ’20, Shepards-town, W. Va.
Rev. T. H. Patterson, '22, R. F. D., Lexington, Va.
A. Bailey, '23, Franklin Square Hospital, Baltimore, Md.
Rev. J. S. Robinson, '13, Route 6, Owensboro, Ky.
Rev. J. L. Yandil, Manly O. Sisk, '94, Tarboro, N.C.
State Hospital, Utica, N.Y.
W. P. Anderson, '07, 26 Beaver St., New York, N.Y.
J. A. Thies, 122 Maryland Ave., N.E., Washington, D.C.
A. R. Muss, Route 2, Bessemer City, N.C.

Brown and Martin Win Religious Fellowship At Louisville Seminary

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Camfield McClure, of Chester, S. C., announce the engagement of their daughter, Mary, to Mr. Everett Phifer Nisbet, of Charlotte, the wedding to take place in June. Mr. Nisbet, the second son of Dr. and Mrs. W. O. Nisbet, of Charlotte, was graduated from Davidson in the class of ‘17, and is a brother of W. O. Nisbet, Jr., member of the present Senior class.

With records of consistent achievement and scholastic proficiency to their credit, two Davidson College alumni were recipients of fellowships and high honors at the commencement exercises of the Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary. Victor Brown, Jr., ’24, was awarded a fellowship in pursuing post-graduate work in the same subject. Mr. Brown graduated from Davidson in '24, and for a year there-D. T. Bradshaw, "Boy" Williams, Arizona. Albert Lyons, Jr., '26, care Commercial Credit Co., Roanoke, Va. Rev. I. M. Thomas, Jr., '18, Spring City, Tenn. H. L. Parry, '84, 603 Court House, Atlanta, Ga. Clifton Murphy, '13, 37 Wall Street, New York, N. Y.

Beginners’ Golf Outfits. Canvas Bag for $8.50. We restring Tennis Racquets. Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

’07, of Charlotte, retiring moderator. 20, 627 Seventh Ave.

We offer a set of four Clubs and a fellowship in religious education. Arthur, after being a member of the faculty at McCallie School, Chattanooga, received a fellowship in church history. After a brief vacation, he will take up his duties as associate pastor of the Beckley Presbyterian Church, Beckley, W. Va., and plans later to pursue post-graduate studies.

The endowment of the fellowship in religious education, received by Mr. Brown, was given to the Seminary last year by Mr. and Mrs. Olaf Anderson, of Louisville, and this was the first time that it had been awarded to one of the Seminary graduates. The fellowship goes to that member of the graduating class who has done the best work in religious education during his seminary course, and is for the purpose of assisting the recipient in further studies.

The fellowship in church history, awarded to Mr. Martin, was endowed last year by Henry E. Dosher, and was awarded this year for the first time. It was won by Mr. Martin as a result of his work in church history while a seminary student. Mr. Martin graduated from Davidson in '25. Following his graduation from the Seminary two weeks ago, he went to Savannah, Ga., his home, where he will take over the duties of assistant pastor at the Independent Presbyterian Church of that city. He intends to pursue graduate work in church history at a later date.

"But when I was handed these cigarettes, one by one, I realized at once that there was a difference and that the test was conclusive. One cigarette was so much more appealing, so much more delicate in flavor. Oh, and so much smoother! When the test was over and I was told that the cigarette of my choice was OLD GOLD, I understood at once why this cigarette is so popular among my American friends."

Blindfolded, leading cigarettes, Prince selects OLD GOLD.

"I was much intrigued by the invitation to make a blindfold test of your leading brands of American cigarettes, to see how they compared with each other and with those I had smoked abroad. Could one really taste the difference? I wondered."

SMOOTHER AND BETTER

Ten Alumni Get Charges From Richmond Seminary Pastorate Accepted by Ten Davidson Men—Brown And Lacy Speak

Ten Davidson graduates, members of the Senior class at the Union Theological Seminary, have been awarded pastorates and will report for duty at the conclusion of the commencement exercises at the Seminary this week. Rev. E. D. Brown, '93, of Statesville, has been selected to deliver the annual address to the graduating class and Rev. B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., '06, president of the Seminary, will make the final address to the students.

The former Davidson students who have been assigned churches are: H. D. Brown, Jr., '25, of Wilson, will go to Lynchburg, Va.; M. P. Calhoun, '23, of Laurinburg, will return to Seminary as Salem Fellow; J. McLeod Carr, '25, of Burgaw, who will go to Berryville, Va.; Ira T. Hager, '26, of Davidson, who goes to Keysville, Va.; S. E. Howie, '22, of Charlotte, who goes to Pontotoc, Miss.; A. C. Ray, '25, of Pittsboro, who will be at Hebron, Va.; W. G. Thomas, '25, of Charlotte, who will be at Ellerbe, N. C.; and J. P. Taylor, Jr., '19, of Winston-Salem, N. C., who has not accepted work, and M. W. Doggett, Jr., '22, of Kingsport, Tenn., who has accepted a pastorate at Edenton.

In a scientific test of leading cigarettes, Princess Paul Chavchavadze, sister of Mrs. Wm. B. Leeds, was blindfolded, and, in the presence of two responsible witnesses, was given one each of the four leading cigarettes to smoke. To clear the taste, black coffee was served before each cigarette. The Princess was entirely unaware of the identity of these cigarettes during the test. After smoking the four cigarettes, the Princess was asked to designate by number her choice. Without hesitation, she replied, "No. 3"... which was OLD GOLD.

NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD