"FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON"

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 19, 1928 No. 27

Alfred E. Smith Defeats Herbert C. Hoover in Presidential Poll Held On College Campus by the Davidsonian

Governor Smith Gets Plurality of Only Thirty-Two Votes Over Secretary Hoover

FACULTY PICKS HOOVER

Over Eighty Per Cent of Student Body Voted in Election

In what was probably the closest collegiate election in which straw ballots have been cast for Governor Alfred E. Smith of New York and Secretary Hoover, Davidson’s student body expressed its opinion that Al Smith, democrat, should be the next President. The plurality was only thirty-two votes over Hoover, republican—201-169.

In a separate canvass of faculty selections Hoover proved to be the favorite with a vote which doubled that of Smith’s. Members of the administration who participated in the voting cast 13 votes for Hoover, 6 for Smith and others for McAdoo, Meredith, Walsh, Coolidge, Ritchie, George, Dawes, and Davis.

Response to this movement which was instigated and carried out by The Davidsonian was above the average with approximately eighty per cent of the enrolled students casting votes. The total number of votes was 478. Many students predicted a great landslide for Smith while others were just as certain that Hoover’s plurality would be large. The poll conducted by The Independent throughout the United States showed that Hoover was the favorite with a plurality of one-third over Smith who (Continued on page 2)

Classes Finish Council Elections for New Year

Election of Student Councilmen Bring Spring Elections to a Close

Juniors, Sophomores, and Freshmen elected class officers and student councilmen for next year. The Juniors selected Monroe Gilmour as president and M. C. McQueen as vice-president. Gilmour belongs to the S. A. E. social fraternity, the Delta Pi Kappa honorary journalistic fraternity, has been on the Court of Control for two years, belongs to the Reporters’ Club, is on business staff of the Chameleon and on the editorial staff of the Quips and Cranks. M. C. McQueen belongs to the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and the Ministerial Band and is Junior assistant baseball manager.

In the Sophomore elections Zeb Long was chosen president and Heath Whittle vice-president and “Bill” McGuire, secretary-treasurer. The election of Long was stated in the last issue of the Davidsonian. Heath Whittle belongs to the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and also holds the college record in the 220 low hurdles. In the Tech relays Whittle placed second over a large number of opponents. This is Whittle’s first year on the track team and he is showing up fine.

The Freshmen elected Pete Glidewell president, Archie McLean, vice-president, and Bob Gillam, secretary-treasurer. Glidewell was vice-president of the class this year and is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. (Continued on page 8)

Program for Junior Speaking Announced

As the time assigned for the Junior Speaking festivities draws near, plans for the weekend’s activities are fast nearing completion. Carefully guided by the four committee chairmen details are being worked out and final plans are being made which, it is hoped, will effect an enjoyable Junior Speaking. Much interest is being manifested to whether the radical changes made by this year’s juniors will prove to be worthwhile innovations.

According to Mac King, junior president in charge of the entire arrangements, the activities will begin Friday night, April 27, with the Junior Oratorical Contest in Shearer Hall at 7:30. Other social attractions for that night are rumored but cannot be substantiated here. On Saturday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock there will be a track meet with the team from the University of South Carolina. A large crowd is expected at this meet due to the efficiency already exhibited by Capt. John Currie and his cohorts. Immediately following this meet the Junior class will be host to the student body, their guests and the faculty at a reception on the campus. Saturday night promptly at 7:30 the curtain will rise on (Continued on page 8)

Scabbard and Blade Frat Bids Thirteen

Scabbard and Blade Military Fraternity extended bids to 13 men this week. These men were initiated on Wednesday night. Two men, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and Dr. H. M. Moffett, were elected to associate membership. Three members of the present Senior class were elected because of their interest, efficiency, and exemplification of those qualities which make up leadership. These men are: First Lieutenant R. A. Glenn, commander of the Second Platoon of Company B; First Lieutenant S. M. Withers, second in command of the Band; and Lieutenant Clarence Taylor, commander of the Third Platoon of Company B. Eight Juniors were elected. They are as follows: M. M. King, R. O. Flynn, W. C. Archie, W. M. Regen, B. H. O. Geer, R. M. Gant, As (Gu) Fry, and L. D. Kirkland. All of these (Continued on page 2)

FREE MOVIE TICKETS

Six free tickets to the Davidson Theater will be given to the one who submits the best yell for use by the cheer-leaders; a second prize of four tickets and a third award of two free admissions are also offered. This contest, which is sponsored by The Davidsonian, is for the purpose of obtaining some new, original and usable yells and it is urged that the unusual be sought for but also that good ones which are used at other institutions be suggested. As many suggestions may be turned in as anyone may wish. Entries must be submitted to Nelson Myers, Varsity cheer-leader or the editor of The Davidsonian by midnight Monday, April 30.

RETIRING EDITOR B. F. MARTIN

Who Retires Editorship of “Davidsonian” in This Issue

Martin, Retiring Editor of Davidsonian, Shown to be Outstanding Man

Activities Include Editing, Golfing and Acting—Good Executive and Scholar

When Boyce Martin relinquished the editorship of this paper with the issue of April 4, there passed from the directorate of The Davidsonian one of the most distinguished editors of recent years. No one has held more collegiate honors of such importance and covering such varied activities as Martin has. As editor, golfer, scholar, actor, poet, executive and popular student he has carved a name for himself in Davidson's Hall of Fame which will stand unsurpassed for some time.

From his freshman year Martin has gained honor after honor until his election to editor of The Davidsonian and Omicron Delta Kappa climaxed the long list of accomplishments. As editor he has directed the pursuit of aConservative yet progressive policy for this paper and has produced an editorial page which, for its qualities of good writing, depth of thought, and accuracy of expression, would rank in the forefront of student publications. His next bid to campus fame is as a golfer. Having played on the college (Continued on page 5)

No Report Given as to Outcome of Inspection

In spite of the fact that Davidson students manifested a keen interest in the outcome of the annual R.O.T.C. inspection here recently, the reviewing officers, Colonel Merriam and Major McCaughey, had little to say concerning the impression made by the Davidson unit. It is a War Department policy for inspecting officers of any nature to have little to say at the time of inspection, in order that their final reports may not be anticipated nor misunderstood. Captain Daugherty, however, expressed himself as being very optimistic as to the outcome of the official review of the local unit. The interest taken by the cadets in their work and their willingness to help was the subject of much favorable comment. Perhaps the most striking feature of the day, and the part which seemed to impress the visitors most, was the entrance (Continued on page 2)

Covington to Edit “Quips and Cranks”

“Quips and Cranks,” a book published by the senior class, will be edited in 1920 by J. R. Covington, Raeford, N.C., who won the honor in a recent election defeating R. C. Grady. Each year, the editor of the annual is chosen by the rising senior class from the members of the class who hold positions on the annual staff. This year, there were four men on the staff who were considered eligible by the Publications Board: G. A. Fry, J. L. Ely, R. C. Grady, and J. R. Covington. Of these four, the latter was chosen for the editorship of the Quips and Cranks, a position of honor and responsibility.

Throughout his three years at Davidson, Covington has often been honored both by his class and by organizations on the hill. In his freshman year, he was president of the class of ’29. Since that time, he has received numerous other honors. He was a member of the Beaver Club, a sophomore honor society, and was elected to membership in Sigma Upsilon, an honorary literary fraternity. He is a prominent member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. The staff for next year’s Quips and (Continued on page 5)

“Y” Cabinet Chosen By New President

With a change of executives of the “Y,” a new Cabinet was inaugurated. The scope of the work for the next year is to be somewhat broader than that of the closing year, and several new positions on the Cabinet have been made. These new departments will be headed by Mac King on Personal Work, DeWitt Helm on Social Service, and Nelson Myers on Chapel Services. These new fields will enlarge the opportunity of the Y to promote its program of being of real service to the Student Body and surrounding community. The new Cabinet is composed entirely of new men with the exception of two, Bill Hill and Dick Flinn. The two vice-presidents, Frank Brown and Zeb Long, will head the work on Deputations and Attendance respectively. Vocational Guidance will again receive a prominent place in the program of the coming year and will be headed by Bob Covington. With an enlarged program, a progressive and capable Cabinet, and a sympathetic appreciation of the needs of the Student Body, the “Y” hopes, in the coming year, to render the greatest service in its history. The Cabinet positions and leaders are: Personal Work—Raymond Lake. Personal Work—Bill Hill. (Continued on page 5)

JUNIOR SPEAKING

Friday, April 27, 7:30—Junior Oratorical Contest.
Saturday, April 28—
2:30—Track Meet: Davidson vs. University of S. C.
5:00—Reception on Campus
7:30—Junior Minstrel.

Semi-annual “Tap Day” on base at the time.

Omicron Delta Kappa Taps Thirteen Prominent Men in Junior and Senior Classes During “Tap-Day” Ceremony

Seven Juniors and Six Seniors Accept Bids From Leadership Fraternity

FIVE ALUMNI BID

Dignified and Impressive Ceremony Marks Entire Proceedings of “Tap-Day”

Student-leaders at Davidson College were selected for membership in the Omicron Delta Kappa national leadership fraternity here today in the third of this exclusive association. Recognizing achievement in every branch of campus activity and encouraging service to the college, the Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity occupies a position of unusual prestige on the local campus. Membership in the order is limited to members of the senior and junior classes and to alumni of the institution who have won preeminence in the professional and business world. Announcement of alumni to whom bids have been extended will be made as soon as acceptances have been received by officials of the local chapter. Student initiates, who were “tapped” at the impressive public ceremony here today, include:

Robert Edward Kell, of Pascagoula, Miss., leading athlete, debater, and religious worker on the local campus, whose recent election to the presidency of the Davidson student-body was the climax of a brilliant undergraduate career.

John W. Melton, Jr., of Decatur, Ga., (Continued on page 6)

Davidson’s Nine Defeats Petrels in Close Game

Deciding Run of Game Scored in Last Half of Ninth Inning

Davidson Wildcats added another victory to their string Monday, when they defeated Oglethorpe 7-6 in Concord. The game was played on the Concord High School diamond. The game was a nip and tuck affair from the very beginning and the outcome was in doubt until the last half of the ninth inning. The feature of the game was the timely hitting of “Tuck” McConnell who got five hits out of five times at the plate. In the last half of the ninth inning Littlejohn, the first man up, singled, McAulay followed with a sacrifice and “Tuck” the next man up doubled to deep center to win the game which was tied at that time. Ratchford also got his share of the hits with three out of five times up. John McInnis was in good form and pitched a good game before a home crowd. Two snappy double plays were pulled by the locals by the route of Kugler to Harrison to Crawford. The feature of the Oglethorpe team was the hitting of Wall. In the first half of the fifth inning Wall connected with one of McInnis’ fast ones and knocked it over the fence for a home run, one man was on base at the time. This tied the score.

Box score:
Oglethorpe
Boswell, 2b
Thompson, c
Talent, ss