THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 9, 1928

Kittens Defeated by Athletic Club

After leading the Statesville Athletic Club by a doubled score for three quarters, the Kittens fell behind in a rough-and-tumble game Monday night and lost by an 18-16 score at Statesville. Each team looping one goal in the first quarter gave a 2-all tie, but the yearlings brought the score up to 8-2 to end the half. Coming back with a rush, they doubled this score but were unable to add to it throughout the remainder of the game while the Statesvillians brought their score to 18. The last quarter was featured by much fouling and general rough play throughout, which kept the scores on both sides in small numbers.

Davidson (16) Pos. Statesville (18)
McGalliard 2 F Graham
Ruck 6 F Hassauude
DeArmon 2 C Kimball 7
Goodson G Gove
Timberlake 2 G Cameron 7

Substitutions — Davidson: Overman, Goodykoontz; Statesville: Collier, Wilson. Referee: Brawley.

Personal Advice of Col. F. H. Fries, '74, concerning investments, was received with enthusiasm by members of the Winston-Salem Lions Club at a recent meeting at which Colonel Fries was the guest of honor and principal speaker. So sound were the views of Colonel Fries that the Winston-Salem papers took occasion to commend them editorially to all bankers and investors in the south. Sounding a note of optimism in his survey of financial conditions throughout the nation, Colonel Fries paused to condemn the practice of investing money in high-priced stocks and bonds which should be used to pay debts. He warned bankers and investors to beware of investments of a speculative and uncertain nature.

Clair Regen, ’25, of Franklin, Tenn., stopped for a visit to the college last week en route to his home from Hartford, Conn., where he has recently completed a course of study in the home office of the Phoenix Life Insurance Co. Regen will represent the Phoenix company in Franklin, Tenn., and vicinity.

McQueen, James E. ’20, and R. U. Woods, ’23, are founders of a new corporation, recently authorized by the State Corporation Commission for the acquisition, purchase, and sale of letters, patents, licenses, inventions, trademarks, etc. The firm, incorporated under the name of McQueen and Woods, Inc., will be located at Charlotte, and will have a capital stock of 1,000 shares without par value.

Col. Arthur L. Gaston, ’96, a member of the Chester, S. C., bar, has been acting as special judge at Anderson, S. C., in the place of Judge J. K. Henry, who has been confined to his home as a result of illness.

Little Carolyn Cook, daughter of Mayor and Mrs. John H. Cook, of Fayetteville, has been confined to her home for several days as a result of sickness. Mayor Cook is a graduate of Davidson College.

Wildcat Basketeers Win Two Victories

In their first game of the week and the second meeting with Salisbury Y team for the year, the Wildcat quint snatched victory late in the second half to the tune of 47-44. Tuesday night they won a victory over Lenoir Rhyne 40-22. These wins boosted the marked on the win-side of the ledger to five as opposed to three losses.

The Salisbury Y game, played at Salisbury, was a fast and exciting game in that the winner was undecided until the closing minutes of play. Being led throughout the entire first half, the ’Cats came back to overcome a lead of 28-22 and after having the score knotted a number of times, they took advantage of foul shots and cinched their lead. Pritchett’s shooting was a feature as he accounted for 17 of the 47 points. For the Y team, Robinson gained 13 counters and was the second high-point man for the game.

Davidson (47) Pos. Salisbury (44)
McAulay F Laird 8
Pritchett 17 F Pease 10
Wilson C Brown 11
Harrison 2 G Robertson 13
Hewlett 6 G Schenck 2

Substitutions—Davidson: Kugler; Salisbury: Dunham, Moore. Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

In the Lenoir-Rhyne game Tuesday night, the Cats continued their winning streak and made the score 40-22. The first half was not marked by either fast or thrilling play on either side, but the second period saw Davidson pull away and make 10 points before the Rhyneans counted.

The second half saw more accurate shooting and higher mounting scores as Pritchett and Charlie Harrison tossed many baskets. Close guarding on the part of the Davidsonians kept Lenoir-Rhyne from gaining much of a vantage point from which to shoot and resulted in many tries for long shots from near mid-court.

Kiser, for the visitors, was their star, accounting for 8 points while Pritchett of Davidson managed to bring his total to 16 for high-point man of the evening.

Davidson (40) Pos. Lenoir-Rhyne (22)

Substitutions—Davidson: Kugler (4); Lenoir-Rhyne: Lentz (1), Hagar. Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see M. P. Crawford. QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.of Davidson in the class of 1916.

Dougald All Models in Stock—Easy Terms ANDREW’S 213 N. Tryon St.

Rev. and Mrs. Monroe of Vass, N.C., are receiving congratulations on the birth of a son, James Jefferson, born January 30, 1928. Mr. Monroe finished at Davidson with the class of '16.

Ralph “Buck” Flowers, ex’23, who was a star gridiron performer for Davidson before he transferred to Georgia Tech, where he won all-American backfield honors, received painful injuries about the chest when he jumped from a runaway horse Monday afternoon, and is under observation of physicians at an Atlanta hospital. Flowers was injured when his mount ran away, following Buck’s attempt to assist Miss Jennie Gilbert, of Chattanooga, Tenn., in quieting her fractious mount. Miss Gilbert was unhurt.

Rev. Lawrence Little, '25, of Concord, has been placed in charge of the Committee on Arrangements for the Young People’s convention of the Methodist Protestant Church, to be held at Baltimore May 10-26 inclusive. More than 1,800 paid registrations have already been received, and it is believed that more than 4,000 will be in attendance at the meetings of the conference.

Mrs. Spende—"I don't like the looks of this dress.”
Dressmaker—"It's the most expensive thing in my shop.”
Mrs. Spende—“Well, I might try it on.” —Philadelphia Bulletin.

“Are you guilty or not guilty?”
“I don't quite see,” said the prisoner sadly, “why I should express an opinion and try to interfere with the jury's guessing contest.”—Washington Star.

Second Chameleon Ready for Printers

The second number of the Davidson College Magazine is very nearly ready to go to the printers and should be on the press by the tenth of this month and ready to be distributed among the students by the end of the next week, according to the editor, J. G. Wharton. All of the material is not yet in but as there has been more time for material to be gotten together and used, there are several articles yet to be turned in which are holding the Magazine’s going to press.

According to the editor, the principal short story of this issue has been written by R. A. Boggess who also wrote, among other things, a very good short story in the last issue of the Chameleon. Another Freshman has had some material accepted by the staff—Billy Wolfe, who wrote a very good essay, so the editor of this department is quoted. J. M. Murchison, one of the associate editors of the Cham, is said to have written a very good article in the “Study of Paul Green,” which will be out in the next issue. Browne McQueen, the poetry editor of the Cham, has written what is easily the lion’s share in the poetry as he did for the last issue. McQueen's work has been of a very good quality in all the things he has written this year, and without any great improvement he should be able to turn out some very good poetry.

Neb. Wages War on Honorary Societies

Lincoln, Neb. (New Student Service)—Six underclass honorary societies at the University of Nebraska are on the verge of death, their fate now resting in faculty hands. Their abolition was recommended by the student council, following long agitation against purposeless organizations by The Daily Nebraskan. The faculty has delayed action to permit defense pleas.

In announcing the council action The Nebraskan said editorially: “There was little justification for these societies which had existed solely because certain ambitious men and women students wished to have important-sounding club names placed among their achievements in college activities.” The Nebraskan used the past tense because it expected and hoped that the faculty would impose death immediately. The honoraries in question are distinguished by such fine names as Vikings, Silver Serpents, Iron Sphinx, Xi Delta, Green Goblins, and Mystic Fish.

“Why do you folks stick to the county fair?”
“We ain't big enough for an Olympiad.” —Louisville Courier Journal.

Single—"Does your wife select your clothes?”
Married—"No, but she picks the pockets.” —Pathfinder.

Husband—"Well, thank the Lord, the car is finally paid for!”
Wife—“Isn’t that splendid? Now we can turn it in on a new one.”

Some call it mellowness...

Some say that Camel is the mellowest cigarette ever made. Some say that it’s mild and smooth. It’s really all good things in one, and that is why it is supreme upon the pinnacle of modern favor. Camel’s popularity today is the largest that any cigarette ever had. And, it costs something to make this kind of a smoke. It costs the choicest tobaccos that money can buy, and a blending that spares neither time nor expense. You can be sure of smoking pleasure, serene and full, each time you light a Camel. Every Camel cigarette is as full of value as the world of tobacco can give. Smoke all of them you want; they simply never tire the taste. “Have a Camel!”