THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1928

Dr. Brown Author of Book Published Recently on N. Carolina Railroading

"Pioneer Railroading in North Carolina" is the title of the book written by Prof. C. K. Brown, which has recently been released from the publishers. The book was primarily written by Dr. Brown as his dissertation for obtaining his doctor’s degree, and secondly, in order to treat a portion of state history that has not fully received its due. Dr. Brown began work on the history in 1923, and devoted more or less effort toward it until the summer of 1926, when the manuscript was completed. It was published by the University Press of the University of North Carolina, and released on April 1st of this year.

A good deal of the work done in compiling the book was done at the State Library in Raleigh, and in making necessary trips to various points of the state, to Richmond, and to Washington, D.C. The book itself begins with the dire need for action in the railroad question in North Carolina, and in following the struggle that ensued in establishing the present railroad system, a complete history is given of the railroads and the accompanying affairs of the state at the time. Starting with a need for establishment, the book takes up the very beginning, the progress of the roads, and the results of this progress, with the historical background kept in sequence with the development of the main story.

Although the book has been just recently released from the press, it has already been read by many people, reviewed, and criticized. In the Sunday edition of the Charlotte Observer, of Sunday, April 15, in an editorial on the publication, the following comment was made concerning the work: “Dr. Brown's story of pioneer railroading in North Carolina constitutes an entertaining contribution to State History.” Several members of the student body are already acquainted with the book, and a copy of it can be found in the college library.

Spanish Night Featured by Speeches and Music

On Friday evening, April 20, the Spanish Club presented a varied program, the main feature of which was a debate in Spanish with the University of North Carolina. John McKnight, president of the club, introduced the different numbers and acted as chairman of the debate. After a brief address of welcome by McKnight, the sextet of the club sang two Spanish songs, “La Chaparrita,” and “La Golondrina.”

For the next hour, the proposition, “Resolved: That the United States Should Not Have Resorted to Armed Intervention in Nicaragua,” was discussed by Messrs. Mendez and Hayes, of Carolina, who upheld the affirmative, and Messrs. Weaver and Glenn, of the local club, who supported the negative. A unanimous decision was rendered in favor of the negative. An idea of the type of Spanish used may be gained from the fact that Mr. Mendez, of the Carolina team, is himself a native Cuban. The judges were teachers of Spanish from Queens and Mitchell Colleges, and from Barium Springs.

Following the debate, and before the decision of the judges had been rendered, the Seniors Celebrate With Peppy Smoker

The first of a series of smokers was held by the Senior class at the Maxwell-Chambers hotel last Monday evening, April 23rd, which practically all of the class attended. The smoker was preceded by a free trip to the local cinema dispensary at the invitation of the Stough brothers, when Lon Chaney appeared on long distance in “Laugh, Clown, Laugh.” The smoker was enlivened by the melodies of the “Trickle Trio” and an impromptu rendition of some set-up exercises by Madame Pavlowa, who attended the smoker in the disguise of our versatile and well-beloved musimedian, Gordon McSwain.

These smokers may well be called rehearsals for Sob Day, as the festivities ended with an acute attempt at harmony in singing the college swan song, otherwise known as College Ties. But to the representative of the press (who was much mortified at having to pay admission), the general feeling of good will was very much in evidence, as gathered from the bits of conversation which dribbled down through the dense fog of smoke clinging to the ceiling. With commencement day but a short five weeks off, and final preparations for leaving being made, such a gathering was dominated by an undercurrent of mature and dignified expectancy, of a nature known only to a Senior, and many guesses were hazarded as to when and where this or that classmate would again be seen.Thompson, Gordon Mc- the Club Instrumental Quintet, composed of Messrs. McKnight, T. T. Jones, Nicholson, A. J. Thompson, and A. F. Carr, entertained the audience. After playing “In a Little Spanish Town,” “La Paloma,” and “Ramona,” in concert, Messrs. Jones and Thompson responded to two encores. Immediately after the result of the debate was announced, a burlesque was staged by several members of the club. This was a farce of a Presidential Nominating Convention. The meeting adjourned with the singing of “O! Davidson,” in English by the entire audience.

Flowers that last
MRS. J. A.
Phone 112
Corsages for the Dance
Efficiently delivered
Concord’s Florist
One Block from Hotel Concord
Tastefully arranged

WALKER
Phone 321
For Heating and Plumbing
Contractor of Rare Excellence
See Elliott & Byers
Phone 78-W
Maxwell-Chambers Hotel

A GOOD New Victor
TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE!
We have at all times a complete stock of Brunswick Panatropes
New Records Every Friday
A Complete Line of RCA Radios
Orthophonic Victrolas and Brunswick Records
From $69.50 to $895.

First in Spanish by the club and then, Swain, and Johnny McKnight in hot competition.

Competitive Drill
Competitive drill for squads and platoons will be judged only by the work as it is exhibited on the field, no other phase of the work will be included. The units competing will be selected to represent their respective companies. The last parade drill of the year will be held on May 7th in honor of the graduating class.

Choose R.O.T.C. Work
Representative will be held the second of May at the morning drill period. Prior to this time squads and platoons will be chosen. E. (Tom) Hill of Richmond, Va., was judged on his entire year’s work, on the response he receives from his company, and on his own personal ability as a leader. The captain will be chosen on the second ballot between Tom Hill and Raymond Lake. Hill was elected to the office. Hill, although of a quiet nature, is one of the most prominent men on the campus at the present time. Besides ranking high in scholarship, he has shown great capability in extra-curricular activities. Among other honors, which he holds are those of member of the Court of Control and captain of the wrestling team for the coming school year. Also, he is very active in Y. M. C. A. work.

For Business Manager for the coming year of Quips and Cranks, the college yearbook, W. L. Dumas, of Talladega, Ala., was elected over Smith, Myers, and McBride, all being nominated by the Annual. Two ballots were run off, Myers and McBride being struck out first and Dumas being elected over Smith on the second ballot.

“Baby, won't you please come home,” “That good old ship of Zion,” “Ladies’ Aid,” and others were given in the spirited entertainment of the evening, and later on McSwain dislocated himself all over the hall in a dance that was a cross between the buck wing and the black bottom; at any rate, he did shake that thing. Caldwell Withers, president of the class, had charge of the affair, and after a brief talk to the class, followed by the “Alma Mater,” closed the smoker, to reassemble the members again on the campus for a rousing cheer for the class of ’28.

College Clothes designed by College Men bought by College Men for College Men

Tudor Hall Clothes
For on the Campus and Off the Campus Wear
Our stocks are now complete--showing new two and three-piece suits for late spring and summer wear. Some of these have two pairs of pants. Not only do we have Tudor Hall College Clothes but also Etor Hall, Schloss Bros., Keller, Humann Thompson, and Style-Plus. Priced from $25.00 to $39.50.