Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN October 25, 1928. Y.M.C.A. Group Goes On Banner Elk Deputation King, Pritchett, and Christian; Dr. Thompson
Talks To Ministerial Band

A deputation visited Lees-McRae Institute at Banner Elk, N.C., the weekend of October 20, for the purpose of officiating at
a football game. M.M. King, C.R. Pritchett, and R.M. Christian left early Friday for this trip into the heart of
the North Carolina mountains. The deputation returned Monday afternoon and reported a very interesting trip. This year is the second
year for football in the school. Although the boys know practically nothing of the game, they are willing to learn
and, above all, to fight. The students have a wonderful spirit and talk up their team in a way which
would shame many a school. Their team played Mountain City High School Saturday, and, although they lost, they were backed
to the limit. Their yells are given with an abundance of spirit and led largely by girls. They have a
school song to the tune of “The Good Ole Ship of Zion.” Although a small school, especially since there are
so few boys, the spirit is remarkable.

In connection with this school are Grandfather Orphanage and Grace Hospital. Banner Elk is located in the mountain part of
the state, 1,000 feet above sea level, midway between Lenoir, N.C., and Johnson City, Tenn. The school, often called “Little
Davidson,” is a preparatory school conducted in many ways like this college. It has a Y.M.C.A. and also a Y.W.C.A.,
as it is coeducational. The school has 150 girls and 35 boys. The girls’ dormitories are very nice, being of
fireproof stone construction. A new dormitory of the same construction will be built soon. The hospital is one of the
most modern and completely equipped in that section of the state. When a girl graduates from the high school, she
may enroll for training as a nurse in the hospital. A Glee Club has been organized, training students in choral
work and giving at least one recital a year. Literary societies are a very interesting part of the student activities
and their work is entered into heartily.

Dr. Thompson Talks To Ministerial Band

In the most useful program of the year, the Ministerial Band met Sunday afternoon with Dr. Thompson as the speaker.
Dr. Thompson, being asked to give a talk of a practical nature, set forth much useful advice for the potential
ministers. Following the informal talk, he threw the floor open for questions from the members. The avoidance of specializing in
religious studies in college, careful and regular attention to studies, and a thorough grounding in English literature and language were
urged by Dr. Thompson as essential to the preparation of the minister. An interesting fact that was brought out in
the questions directed to Dr. Thompson is that Union Theological Seminary is sending out questionnaires to her alumni inquiring about
the advisability of making Hebrew an elective subject in the Seminary. It seems that there is quite a bit of
favor shown toward this movement.

Tennis Is Favorite Of Upperclassmen

The first month's report of the physical work done by the juniors and seniors contains some interesting figures. More men
elected tennis than any other form of exercise. A total of 48 men chose tennis either for part or all
of their required work. Thirty-three men selected golf; 23 selected track, and the same number, 23, played campus football. Calisthenics
and gymnastics attracted only six men. This year, physical exercises are required of all juniors and seniors who are not
taking R.O.T.C. This is a ruling of the Board of Trustees. Any men who have not complied with the requirements
must make up this deficiency during this month. Only some physical disability can excuse them from so doing. Fourteen men
failed to comply fully with all the regulations this month. Several men reported as having engaged in more than one
form of exercise. This explains the fact that the total number taking exercise is in excess of the number of
juniors and seniors who are required to take physical training.

Davidson Golf Team Wins Second Match

The Davidson golf team took its second match of the season from Concord on the college links, Thursday, October 18,
with a thirty-six-point lead. This was a return match, the first having been lost to Concord at Concord. On the
team for Davidson played Arthur Mills, Jack Pepper, Julian Hutaff, and Lacy Hunt, while Furr, Bell, Anderson, and Archie Cannon
composed the visiting foursome. The home team piled up the thirty-six points with apparent ease, the visitors being noticeably handicapped
by unfamiliarity with the course. Mills was low-score man with an eighty. Hutaff and Hunt led the team opposing them
with nineteen points, while Mills and Pepper collected the remaining seventeen. Matches with the Gastonia Country Club and further matches
with Concord are pending. The regular intercollegiate tournament will be played off this spring.

No First Day Thrill

Columbus, Ohio, Oct. 24—(AP)—The first day of school at Ohio State University was uninspiring to R.F. Lehman, Jr., entering freshman.
Lehman had spent freshman week at the university. When his parents were killed in an auto crash as they were
on their return home after visiting their college son, while other students were enjoying the first day of college, Lehman
was attending the funeral.

Again to Japan

Urbana, Ill., Oct. 24—(AP)—The favorable results attending this year's invasion of Japan by the University of Illinois baseball team have
led to making such a tour once every three years, according to university athletic officials. The American team won seven
and tied one out of eleven games played with Japanese teams.

Wofford Freshmen Bow to Kitts 20-0

(Continued from page 5)

Worse punishment was meted out to Fox, fullback of Cornell. Score by quarters: Wofford 0 0 0 0—0 Davidson 0
0 0 20—20 Davidson scoring: Goodson (2), R. Bradshaw. Points after touchdown: Goodson (2). Officials: Casey (South Carolina), referee; Van
Glahn (N. State), umpire; Hill (Wofford), head linesman.

PHYSICAL TRAINING REPORTS

Captain Pritchett announces that all reports for physical exercises during the month of October are to be made Friday morning,
October 26th, and Monday, October 29th, between 9 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. Reports are to be made in Captain Pritchett’s
office in the basement of Chambers. All reports must be made during the time designated.

NEW BUILDING IS DEDICATED

Bulletin issued by College Relates Dedication Program Held Last Commencement

On May 20, 1928, the cornerstone of the New Chambers Building was laid with appropriate exercises. The laying of this
cornerstone marked a great step forward for the College, and this fact was clearly presented to those present by Mr.
S. Clay Williams, of Winston-Salem, a graduate of Davidson, and one of the outstanding lawyers of the state. Mr. Williams
reviewed the history of education in North Carolina before the founding of Davidson, brought out the need then existing for
a small school with high ideals and with men of character to direct it, and the need for a school
of higher learning to give men a well-rounded classical education. In 1837 the college opened and began its task of
turning out men for all walks of life. The need for adequate buildings was keenly felt, and in 1855 Mr.
Maxwell Chambers, ofSalisbury provided by his will a gift of $200,000.00. With this money, the historic old Chambers building was
erected, and the cornerstone was laid in 1858. For 65 years, this building was the center of activities—until it was
destroyed by fire. In total, Davidson has been under an enormous handicap since this great loss, and only through the
tireless efforts of the trustees and officers of the college is this about to be overcome. Mr. Williams pointed out
in his address some of the ideals for which Davidson stood. He showed that the leaders of Davidson were not
striving to aid men in the mere accumulation of knowledge but in the acquiring of a real education, which goes
deeper than mere storing up of facts. He illustrated this point by the heroic achievements of Col. Chas. A. Lindbergh:
“Not all of the knowledge of the human race, if it could have been put at Lindbergh's disposal, could have
insured the success of his trans-Atlantic flight. True, much information that he had was valuable and helpful in the extreme,
but ‘out there’ he had to meet conditions which no man had known, he had to make decisions with which
no other man had ever fronted, had to lay courses which no other man had ever been called upon to
lay, and everything had to be done upon penalty of immediate impending death. Mere knowledge failed him early, but, equipped
with an education in aeronautics and fortified with sterling traits of splendidly developed character, he carried on to a complete
success. His experience as he left our shores to fly over an unchartered sea was like that of a young
man leaving college halls to voyage the sea of an uncertain life whose scenes are moving so fast that ere
he has full time to assure himself of one decision made, he is confronted with another and possibly an entirely
new problem.” Such education is New Chambers dedicated to foster at Davidson.

“What did you work at last summer?”
“Draughtsman in an architect's office.”
“Oh, one of the underdrawers, eh?” —Rice Owl.

Doctor: “What you need is a little sun.”
Warm Young Thing: “Oh—Doctor!” —Lord Jeg.

“If a hen laid an orange, what would the little chick say?”
“Oh look, the orange marmalade.” —Bison.

He: “Shall we sit in the parlor?”
She: “No, I'm too tired—let’s go out and play tennis.” —Belle Hop.

“Are you positive the defendant was drunk?”
“Well, your honor, I saw him put a penny in a patrol box and then he looked up at the
courthouse clock and roared, ‘Gawd, I've lost fourteen pounds.’” —Yel.

With The Other Colleges

Eliminate the Type

Hamilton, N. Y., Oct. 24—(By Intercollegiate Press and Syracuse Daily Orange)—A college professor has distinguished himself by finding a use
for the cribber. Unknown to themselves, 30 successful cheaters at Colgate University were studied by Prof. H. C. Brownell, and
used as laboratory specimens, showing the mental and emotional traits of college men who cheat at examinations—and get away with
it. Information about the 30 was obtained by underground and unofficial channels, Professor Brownell states in reporting his investigation. None
of the cheaters was caught by a severe proctoring system. Eighty percent of the group were found to be more
psychoneurotic, emotionally unstable than the campus average. More than half fell below the college average in intelligence, and the majority
belonged to the type known as psychological extroverts that are good social mixers and more inclined to activity than thinking.
“Contrasted with the student body, the cribber becomes a psychological ‘type,’” Brownell concludes. “His low intelligence may make cheating somewhat
of a necessity. His extroversion may operate further this. His emotional instability makes it easier for the spirit to succumb
under the twofold necessity.”

More than half the college cheating would be eliminated if this psychological type could be eliminated, according to Professor Brownell.
With the general type would go most of the “all-around” college men who shine in team and track contests, glee
clubs, dramatic productions, and other bookless college activities, the professor believes.

Blind Lawyer Wins

Fort Worth, Texas, October 24—(IP)—Marvin Shannon, blind ex-student of the University of Texas School of Law, has won his first
case in court here. He was just recently admitted to the bar. Members of the Tarrant County bar association remarked
on the unusual ability displayed by Shannon and declared that his “courtroom tactics marked him as a coming trial lawyer
of northern Texas.” Shannon lost his eyesight while attending high school and later graduated from the State School for the
Blind, after which he entered the University of Texas School of Law, where he was an honor student.

No Honor at Yale

New Haven, Conn., Oct. 24—(IP)—Yale has abandoned the honor system in examinations. This fall, in all classes except those of
academic freshmen and the Sheffield School, examinations will be carefully supervised. There will be no more examinations in which there
is not at least one instructor present in the capacity of proctor.

Dollar a Week

Springfield, Ohio, Oct. 24—(IP)—To find out how strange girls in big cities get and keep jobs, reports Collier's October 20,
the national student council of the Y. W. C. A. brought 24 college girls, all industrially inexperienced, into Chicago and
turned them loose to find jobs. Four days later, all were employed. They got from $3.50 a week making lampshades,
to $28 a week overtiming radio assemblies. When the experiment ran its six weeks, the girls found that after paying
all expenses and allowing for wear on clothing, their average profit was $5.03, less than a dollar a week.

Library School

Toronto, Ont., Oct. 24—(IP)—The University of Toronto, following the example set by McGill University, has opened the first library school
in Ontario, giving a full year’s training in that subject.

Goodnight, Boys

Moscow, Idaho, Oct. 24—(IP)—Beginning October 7, Sunday dates at the University of Idaho ended at 7 p.m., in line with
the custom of the dean of women who prescribes that during the winter months the co-eds must dismiss their boyfriends
at 7 instead of 9 as in the early fall and late spring months.

Nice Hiking

Austin, Texas, Oct. 24—(IP)—Annie Mae Engle, University of Texas co-ed, has completed a hitch-hike from Austin to New York City,
according to a letter received by her friends here.

Away With the Coaches

New York, Oct. 24—(IP)—Proposal has been made that the High School Games Committee of this city bar coaches from the
sidelines at all high school games between New York elevens. The matter has been taken under consideration by the committee.

Lincoln-Douglas

Galesburg, Ill., Oct. 24—(IP)—On the seventieth anniversary of the famous debate on slavery between Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas,
Knox College was the scene of a reproduction of the famous encounter on the exact site where the statesmen met
in 1858. A platform was erected near the east door of the “Old Main” building, a historic structure on the
Knox College campus. Seventy years ago, some twenty thousand persons came to Galesburg by wagon and train to hear Lincoln
and Douglas put forward their views on the most important issue of the day. A few of that gathering who
are still living were the honored guests of Knox College at the celebration. At the time of their meeting here,
Lincoln and Douglas were candidates for the United States Senate. Senator Douglas, Democrat, won, but out of these debates grew
the overwhelming sentiment which was soon to make Lincoln president of the United States. “Old Main,” by one side of
which the two argued, is the one remaining structure on the Knox campus associated with their series of debates. It
has been proposed that the building be made a permanent Lincoln shrine.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Wildcat Belts
W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Davidson Theatre

Monday, October 29th
“The Wedding March”
Eric Von Stroheim’s Masterpiece

Tuesday, October 30th
“The Perfect Crime”
with Clive Brook and Irene Rich

Wednesday, October 31st
“Captain Swagger”
Rod La Rocque and Sue Carroll

Thursday, November 1st
“Me, Gangster”

Friday, November 2nd
“Baby Cyclone”

Saturday, November 3rd
“The Cop”
with William Boyd

DRUGS 25 Cents
PRESCRIPTIONS PIPES
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
SODA $1.00 CANDIES
CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE ATLANTA

S & W Cafeterias are catering to you
ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

WHOLESALE

When You Need CANDY SEE US
26-28 South College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
