THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 23, 1928

SECOND CHAMELEON
(Continued from page 1)

However, with the unimaginative this kind of stuff is lost. To me the most delightful part of the sketch was
the way Freshman Wolfe in his “On Quenching Thirst” accomplished a thing most remarkable by writing interestingly and even humorously
upon the most prosaic of subjects. Certainly, he is to be congratulated and encouraged to develop his already pleasing stylistic
qualities. I was attracted to Mr. Wharton's idea of “utter living” in his poetic attempt of “Black Horses.” His process
here illustrated the entire piece. It was written to entertain, and it furnished me with 15 minutes of muffled mirth
that his “Black Horses” failed to arouse in me any deep feeling of understanding.

The remaining articles in the magazine were “so-so,” but on the whole far above those printed in the last issue.
College writers seem always to remember that they are in college. They cannot get away from the idea that their
product must be about long grey motors or a beautiful but bad girl. In most instances, the contents of the
CHAMELEON fully exemplified the collegiate standing of the writers. I except, of course, the two pieces mentioned above. It may
be said that these subjects should be the field of college writers, but I hold that it is no distinction
for an author to have any such glamour of post-adolescence about his work. It makes him so provincial, so limited
and extremely interesting.

McKnight came nearer than any of these writers mentioned just above. He has three very fine poems, but I understand
several passages come almost direct from other works of the same nature. He seems to be aiming at something similar
in sound as Poe’s “Lenore” (if I remember correctly). The story is simple enough, the characters undeveloped, but somehow interest
is aroused despite the fact that we know what is to happen in the bitter end. Mr. Johnson’s “And So,
They Danced,” and I advise if you have not already consumed the stuff to forget it is in the magazine.
The story told in the last sentence: “Her partner (not the hero) went out into the night.”

Langdon Hubbard, Junior, ‘30, repeated the idea—theme I believe such things are termed—that Mr. Johnson used. It is merely a
different dance and two other boys and girls. It always does. McQueen's book reviews, written by students who are of
no authority, have no place in a collegiate publication. That your opinion about a current book isn’t sufficient recommendation for
the unread to rush to the nearest book-shop and purchase the book of your decision, or throw out the window
our denunciations. We are no authorities on the subject; it just happens that we must fulfill our part in filling
the pages.

This prolific author does attempt. His play—a farce in one act is, however, better than some of his other offerings.
“Quien Sabe?” is fair and I would have thoroughly enjoyed “Dusk” if I had not recently seen a movie embodying
the identical thought. But McQueen proves himself to be one of the best writers in school by these efforts. He
would surely become promising enough for unstinting praise if he would choose different subjects for his prose. He has the
power and appeal necessary to produce a writer of the first rank (in our circles). I failed to catch his
wavelength in his two poems. Perhaps, in fairness, I should state that my reticence in praising the current offerings of
the Literary Lights of Davidson may be accounted for by the two unimportant facts of a new pipe and a
refusal slip from the Chameleon’s editor.

OXFORD HONORS
(Continued from page 1)

They have sprung, without, I hope, withdrawing them or their sympathies from the land of their adoption or birth. Proceeds
from them should go back for the betterment of his people. As long as civilization shall endure, as long as
property and life shall be held sacred, this one man’s will, will be instrumental in shaping the destiny of each
generation that comes after him. They will be subject to the pressure of forces around them. We have all seen
the great cotton mill community owned by one great corporation. It has its schools and churches, its homes and hospitals,
but the great majority will think he was only trying to fill up the page allotted to him. Perhaps, it
is better that way! There is absolutely nothing in Johnson’s “And So, They Danced,” and I advise if you have
not already consumed the stuff to forget it is in the magazine. The story told in the last sentence: “Her
partner (not the hero) went out into the night.”

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY and TUESDAY
“Ladies’ Night in a Turkish Bath”
WEDNESDAY
George Bancroft in “The Showdown”
THURSDAY
Chester Conklin and Louise Brooks in “Tillie’s Punctured Romance”
FRIDAY
Florence Vidor in “Doomsday”
SATURDAY
Fred Thompson in “The Pioneer Scout”

VICTOR RECORD RELEASE
FRIDAY FEB. 24, 1928

DANCE RECORDS
21119. Whiteman Stomp
Sensation Stomp - Paul Whiteman and His Orchestra
21167 To-Morrow—Waltz—Johnny Hamp's Kentucky Serenaders
Where in the World—Waltz - B. F. Goodrich Orchestra
21150 So Tired—Fox Trot - Jean Goldkette and His Orchestra
Just a Little Kiss from a Little Miss—Fox Trot
21170 The Whip—Fox Trot—Nat Shilkret and The Victor Orch.
We'll Have a New Home—Fox Trot
21120 Honolulu Stomp
Honolulu Serenaders
21168 I’m Drifting Back to Dreamland
Let’s Forgive and Forget - Blue Steele’s Orchestra

VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL
21152 Marilyn - Ruby Wiedoeft
21169 Oh! - Dalhart, Carson Robinson, Hood
When the Sun Goes Down Again - Dalhart & Robison
21121 Aloha Oe
Chant de Bonheur - Edwin H. Lemare

Come in and hear these numbers. We are sure you will like them.
Davidson Book & Stationery Co.
WHERE QUALITY AND SERVICE

Further information and application blanks may be obtained from Prof. G. R. Vowles or from President Frank Aydelotte, American Secretary,
at Swarthmore, Pa. Full information about study and life in Oxford is supplied especially for American students in OXFORD OF
TODAY published under the direction of the Alumni Association of American Rhodes Scholars, by the Oxford University Press.

Five men among the alumni of Davidson have held the scholarships including Dr. B. R. Lacy, appointed in 1907 to
represent North Carolina, now president of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., W. P. Mills, appointed 1907 to represent North Carolina,
now at Chinese Y. M. C. A., Nanking, China, S. T. McCloy, appointed 1919 to represent Arkansas, now on the
faculty of Duke University, J. M. Richards, appointed 1923 to represent North Carolina, now student and teacher at Columbia Theological
Seminary, Atlanta, Ga., R. F. Davidson, appointed to represent South Carolina in 1926, now at Christ Church College, Oxford.

FRATS MOVED
(Continued from page 1)

Trustees, should have hinted of hostility toward the fraternities and a desire on the part of the college authorities to
bring these groups back to the campus for the purpose of disciplinary surveillance,” recently declared Mr. F. L. Jackson, business
manager of the college and chairman of the special committee which will award contracts for the construction of the houses.
“Davidson College has never discouraged fraternity life, however, her officials, in approving the new fraternity-court, have acted on a desire
to assist the fraternities in securing the advantages of social life and friendly association that belong to such organizations, but
so as not to interfere with the democratic spirit but to contribute to the larger life of the college. The
court, making it finer and better.”As designed by M. E. F., Jr., of Charlotte, calls for immediate construction. The 11
buildings are to be arranged in a semi-circle about a beautifully landscaped court. The price of each building will be
$5,000. Each fraternity will be allowed to draw lots and, upon completion of the house, to buy it at cost
from the college.

The houses are uniform in size and accommodations but will vary in outward design according to the preferences of the
different fraternities. Each house will have a lounge room with a fireplace and bookshelves approximately 17 feet by 28 feet;
a chapter room about 15 feet by 15 feet, with space for an altar and other equipment; a kitchenette with
built-in cupboards and sink, and space for an electric stove and refrigerator; a dressing room and lavatory; linen closets; and
a porch about 200 square feet in size. Members of the committee who will award the contract and supervise construction
are: Mr. F. L. Jackson, chairman; Mr. Prof. A. Currie and Dr. McConnell.

BUSINESS AS A VOCATION

(Continued from page 1)

"Leave behind you an industry that will live after you have gone, doing its part toward the upbuilding of your
state and the nation."

Insisting that the businessman and the industrialist today bear the bulk of the burden of state and society, and that
the man who creates an industry has created a source of wealth to supply the funds for running the schools,
supporting the hospitals, and maintaining the general welfare of his state, Mr. Richardson extolled the works of James B. Duke,
deceased North Carolina capitalist and philanthropist.

"James B. Duke was probably one of the most hated men North Carolina ever produced," he averred. "For 20 years
he was hounded by the demagogues, and yet, I believe he was the greatest man this state has ever produced.
Certainly, no man among the billions who have lived and died on this soil has left their mark on the
state as he has done. His creative mind saw that the public utilities, the power and light lines of most
North Carolina communities were owned by foreign corporations. He was determined that they should be put to work for the
benefit of his own state. He put these utilities in private form, but so arranged it that the public would
benefit."

"I think it is a sign of the increasing intelligence which is being applied to solving the questions of life
that you gentlemen, while you are still in college, are seeking to learn something of the vocations which may engage
your attention after graduation. When you come to think of it, it is amazing how little thought has been given
in the past to this very important subject of selecting one’s vocation," Mr. Richardson continued. "The individual workman has lost
what his forebears had, even on a bare mountain farm. He has lost his economic independence. Remember, 'He who pays
the piper, calls the tune.'"

"In old English days, the shopkeeper was looked down upon. He owned no land. He existed only at the will
of the great landowners; he was here today and gone tomorrow. Something of that feeling still exists in the South.
Somehow, we think it unbecoming a gentleman to go into trade. That feeling, however, is rapidly disappearing. But, we have
another feeling which does exist and which is talked widely through the pulpits, and that is, that service to one’s
fellowmen is the great aim in life—and that is true—and that the greatest way to give this service is to
become a preacher, or more particularly a foreign missionary; that business and industry are selfish pastimes, gone into principally for
the purpose of accumulating filthy lucre. All honor to the ministers and the missionaries, but there is another side to
the picture."

Richardson concluded with the statement, "The call of business is rather a strange appeal to this campus, which has rung
for many student-generations with fervent calls for men needed in the mission fields and in the ministry. The tradition of
Davidson College is law, medicine, and the ministry. It is not so much against business, as it is that business
is not even known. This attitude is a direct heritage from old England when a gentleman's son was supposed to
be educated only for the army, the navy, or the church. Our forebears brought these traditions with them to this
country and translated them, particularly in the Scotch-Irish communities, into law, medicine, and the ministry, with particular emphasis on the
ministry. But, conditions have changed, and these traditions based on the assumption that land was the basis of wealth and
that wealth was permanent, have also changed. As late as 1868, it was estimated that land produced 95 percent of
the annual wealth in North Carolina and that industries produced only 5 percent. In 1925, however, industry produced more than
70 percent. Today the percentage is even greater," he explained.

"Now we are in the age of corporations, of chain industries and enterprises, of gigantic aggregations of capital, and the
movement in that direction is increasing. We boast of cotton mills which are coming to our state, but this is
largely outside ownership. One home-industry is worth a dozen foreign-owned ones. In one day's paper, I read that a combination
was being formed in New York to take over the ice-making companies for Greensboro and a number of other Southern
cities—that a chain-store had opened new branches in Asheboro."

"In 1926-27," Mr. Richardson declared, "it was found that 95 Davidson students had come to college from farms. Of the
95 who came from farms, how many do you think intended to go back to the farm? Just one. What
is going to happen to the other 94? Whether they go into industry or into the professions, they will cease
to be the self-supporting, independent economic unit their forebears were."

Five Years Ago

VISITS NEW YORK

Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college, returned last Friday from a flying trip to New York, where he
looked after business pertaining to the college. Dr. Martin reports a successful trip in a business way, having “laid the
foundations” for something worthwhile for Davidson. Further information concerning the object of his journey cannot be divulged at present.

COACH HENGEVELD

Hand in hand with the announcement by Dr. Douglas that Buck Currie will coach the Presbyterian artists of the diamond
this year, comes the information that former Coach Dutch Hengeveld will also aid him in his work of rounding out
a representative team of Wildcats for this year’s nine.

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Founded 1874

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs. 4% interest paid on Certificate of
Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Government. Make us your Executor. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY

ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
CREDENZA, $300.00
