~THE DAVIDSONIAN © FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 19, 1928 No. 16

SOUTHERN FEDERATION OF COLLEGE STUDENTS TO MEET AT ALABAMA
Davidson One of Fifteen Schools to be Represented at Convention Held During Month of April

The Southern Federation of College Students will meet on the campus of the University of Alabama on Thursday, April 19th,
and continue through Saturday, the 21st. Davidson is one of the 15 members of this organization which will be represented
at the conference. Other schools are Auburn, University of Tennessee, Georgia Tech, Mississippi A. & M., Emory University, University of
Florida, Washington and Lee, University of Kentucky, University of Alabama, V. P. I., Duke, University of Richmond, N. C. State,
and University of Maryland.

During the three days on which the federation will convene, the representatives from the various student governments will discuss new
plans and problems which have arisen in their respective schools. Many nationally known men of the educational world will appear
on the program which is now being planned by the federation’s program committee. There are rumors that the delegates will
be elegantly entertained with a full program of dances and dinners. The convention last year was held at the University
of Kentucky.

The Southern Federation of College Students was organized at Georgia Tech in 1922. It was the idea of Al Staton,
an all-Southern football man from that institution. The purpose of the association is to spread student government through the South
and to extend through experiences felt at the different colleges, the benefits of student (Continued on page 2)

Philanthropic Literary Society Votes to Prorogue Meetings Until September

A sudden shock to alumni comes with the announcement that the Philanthropic Literary Society has disbanded for the rest of
the year with the intention of reorganizing at the opening of the next school year in September, 1928. Decreasing interest
in literary activities on the part of Davidson students and poor attendance was offered as the reason for the resolutions
calling for the disbanding of the organization. The officers of the organization did not make any comment on the action
except that plans will be made for reorganization of the Phi Society at the beginning of next term.

This is the second material step the societies have made in their downward trend during the past two years. Two
years ago there existed four societies. At the opening of the 1926-27 school year, one of the four societies merged
with the Phi, leaving only three in existence. During that year the Pandenic united with the Eumenean Society, leaving only
two organizations. The Phi having disbanded, only the Eu will continue in its work this winter.

The societies have long been a vital part in the life of the college. Their halls are located in ancient
and dignified buildings in the front of the campus. For many years they formed the center of forensic activities, giving
credit to their members for the work done. During the past few years the number who have received diplomas from
the societies has been steadily decreasing.

Freshmen Complete Annual Elections

On Wednesday evening, January 11th, the Freshman class, in their first meeting to be presided over by a member of
their class as officer, elected “Hub” Covington as the vice-president of the class and “Pete” Glidewell to be secretary and
treasurer. Dean Rusk, the president, presided.

A meeting was first called to elect the president of the class on Tuesday night. As above stated, Dean Rusk
was chosen from a field of several nominees, all of whom were nominated by the nominating committee. On the following
night, the class again assembled to choose the officers of vice-president, and secretary and treasurer. In the former, there were
four men nominated. These men were as follows: Paul Alderman, Archie McLean, Dan Goodykoontz, and “Hub” Covington. There were three
ballots taken in this election. On the first, Alderman was eliminated. In the second, McLean dropped out, and in the
third and last, Goodykoontz was eliminated. For the position of secretary and treasurer, there were five men nominated, who were:
Pete Glidewell, Claude Farrell, Joe Baird, Charles Kraemer, and Bob Overman. There were also three ballots taken in this election.
When the first ballot was taken, Glidewell, Farrell, and Kraemer remained. From this number, Kraemer was eliminated on the next
and final ballot. All the nominations for the offices of vice-president, and secretary and treasurer came from the floor, in
contrast to those of the night preceding.

Covington is from Red Springs, N. C. He (Continued on page 8)

Honorary Musical Society Organized

A committee composed of R. E. Wilson, J. S. Foster, R. S. Lowrance, E. B. Peterson, C. J. Albright, and
P. J. Garrison, representing the various musical organizations and the three upper classes of the college, met on Monday night
in the music room in Eu Hall, for the purpose of considering the organization of either a local honorary musical
society or a petitioning body to a National Musical Fraternity.

This committee decided in favor of the latter plan, accordingly the men who are active in at least two musical
organizations have been invited to form a petitioning body. Professor Collum, the head of the musical department of the school,
is helping the above-named students in their endeavor to secure a chapter of National Musical Fraternity. Professor Collum read in
chapel Tuesday morning the list of students invited to join the petitioning body. If this chapter is secured, it will
be of

Faculty Sub-Committee Considers Proposal for Entire Summer Session

Proposal Must be Adopted by Faculty and Trustees

MATTER UNDECIDED

Complete Summer Session is of Interest to Students and to Nearby Teachers

It is understood that plans are being considered to hold a summer session of the college next July and August.
Nothing very definite has been decided, so no announcement can be made for the present, but it is thought that
the summer school will certainly be held. The board of trustees will give the final decision in regard to the
matter.

A number of students who will want to make up back work or catch up with courses will be interested
in this announcement of a prospective summer session, as will also a great number of public school teachers in this
section of North Carolina. Davidson College, with its beautiful campus and well-equipped dormitories and classrooms, and its well-trained faculty of
experts, is considered an ideal place for summer work. For some years there has been an increasing number of students
and teachers applying for such courses.

In the past, the college has made it a policy to offer only the courses for which there is sufficient
demand to warrant the necessary expenditure. However, in many instances, students who wished to take summer work were forced to
attend other institutions on account of a lack of demand for certain courses. If the present proposals are developed and
passed by the necessary authorities, this will no longer be necessary.

During the summer of 1927, there were some 75 people doing work at Davidson, although there was no organized school.
Professors Fleagle, Henderson, Curry, and Goldiere were among the members of the faculty who taught during the summer.

“King Exam” Will Rule Campus for Ten Days

No Publication or Outside Activities to be Worked on During Examination Period

Examinations at Davidson College begin, as usual, on the 19th of January. From Thursday, then, “King Exam” will hold imperial
sway over the fair campus of the school for a period of 10 days. The schedule this year is much
the same as that of last year, and it seems to be as well arranged as is possible. There will
be no chapel service for Seniors during the period of examinations. The hour for starting is 9:00 o'clockIn the forenoon,
and 2:00 o’clock in the afternoon. As exam time is always a trying period at Davidson, the men will look
forward eagerly to days of leisure between their tests. No exams of any nature will be held on Monday, the
22nd, so most of the students will get a very welcome let-down over this weekend. Examination time is always a
time to stop and consider a great many things. Some great help to the musical organizations of the school, it
will provide an incentive for those who take part in the various musical organizations to work harder. Such is the
opinion of Professor Collum. “Seven Godly bellringers who will remain to attend divine services after their work is done” are
wanted by a rural English church. The former ringers refused to attend services because they said they knew the parson’s
sermons by heart. Boys think of their chance to pass, to stay in school. Fortunately, the percentage of this type
at Davidson is small. Others think of their chance for big grades on the approaching tests. But for all of
them, from the Phi Beta Kappa men on down, exam time is a time when the impulse to do better,
to “put out” in the fullest sense of the word, strikes every college man. Some are naturally disappointed that their
efforts have not been more deserving of praise. Some feel that OLD MAN HARD LUCK has camped a (Continued on
page 8)

DUKE WIN Norris Trophy Cup Rules Are Changed

This year the rules for the Norris Trophy Cup Contest are the same as last year, with the exception of
one change. The new rule requires that the “D” Club nominate six men who have fulfilled the requirements and present
them to the student body before the primary election. This change was made by the committee with the idea in
mind that the “D” Club men were especially capable of making these nominations, as they could judge athletic ability and
accomplishments better than the average student. Nominations from the floor will be permitted and the entire student body will vote
on the men. A primary election will be held, and a final election will decide the winner. Ten days must
elapse between the two elections. The only requirement for the candidates, other than their athletic records, is that they attain
a passing grade on 70 percent of their school work. The election will be held under the supervision of a
representative of the Norris Athletic Cup Contest Committee, and Mr. Frank E. Lowenstein, the ex-officio chairman, will have charge of
awarding the cup. It is usually awarded on Athletic Night, in the spring. It is the policy of the committee
to withhold the name of the winner of the cup from the public until the award is made, thereby creating
a great deal of interest and helping to make Athletic Night an occasion to be looked forward to and remembered.
The cup is given by the Norris Candy Company, of Atlanta, Ga. They make these awards to many of the
schools in the South. (Continued on page 8)

Library Officials Announce Changes

That the library authorities are endeavoring to cooperate with the student body in the use of the library is evidenced
in a recent change in the hours for book circulation and for reference work on reserved material. The period for
book circulation, changed from 7:30 to 9:30, is now from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. The reference rooms will not be
open from 12 to 1:30 p.m. but will be available for reference and study from 7:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
The other hours for book circulation and study remain unchanged. The complete revised schedule is as follows: The reading room
remains open from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. The reference rooms will be open from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.;
from 2:30 to 6:00 p.m.; from 7:00 to 11:00 p.m. Hours for book circulation are from 9:30 to 12:00; from
2:30 to 6:00, and from 7:00 to 9:00. The reading room will remain open on Sunday from 9:00 a.m. to
5:30 p.m. On Saturday the library proper closes at 6:00 and the reading room at 3:00 p.m. These hours have
been established since they seem best adapted to the needs of the students. Retention of the late reference hours from
9:00 to 11:00 p.m. will depend upon the number of persons taking advantage of this opportunity. The abolition of reference
hours from 12 to 1:30 was caused by the very small number of persons using them, and these new hours
will also be tentative until their value has been proved.

Allan Frew and Glenn Fry Give Echo of Tenth Student Volunteer Convention

Captain Wilson is Wildcat’s Consistent Mainstay in Three Losses During Five Days on Home Floor

Captain Ben Wilson and his midget cage team found the going rather rough this week, losing three games in five
days to Duke, Furman, and Guilford, respectively. Unsteady passing and the refusal to follow through shots at the basket have
caused defeat in each of the three games, particularly the Furman and Guilford contests. At times the team looks mighty
good, and shows signs of being a classy outfit as soon as the present nervousness and unsteadiness wears away. Coach
Monk has been working mighty hard with the squad and an improved team is sure to be forthcoming. On January
11th Duke University brought to Davidson one of the neatest quintets seen here in two or three years. With four
sophomores, members of last year’s championship team, playing regularly, Duke's prospects in basketball are very bright. Speed in working the
ball down the floor and accurate shooting enabled Duke to take the local team into camp, 46-27. The feature of
the game was the work of Jankoskie, running guard, who besides playing a brilliant floor game, contributed 19 points to
the cause. Kelly, at center, also showed up well for the visitors. For Davidson, Pritchett and Wilson bore the brunt
of the offense. Crawford, playing his first year for the varsity, played a good game at guard and shot 7
points. The line-up follows:

Duke (46) Position Davidson (27)
Councilor (2) .......... Hewlett
Werber (6) .......... Pritchett (9)
Kelly (11) .......... Wilson (7)
(Continued on page 8)

Departing somewhat from the usual type of program, the “Y” vespers Sunday night presented to the men who attended a
most stirring echo of the Tenth Quadrennial Student Volunteer Convention held in Detroit, December 28-January 1. The echo was brought
back by the representatives of Davidson College there: Allan Frew and Glenn Fry, who told of the convention and its
inspiration. The appearance of the speakers was preluded by a short talk by Jim Appleby, in which he expressed the
hope that the students had enjoyed the “Y” services of the past semester and promised that the services for the
spring semester will fully measure up to the others. He concluded with an introduction of the already well-known men as
“just two of us.” Glenn Fry as first speaker took up a practical explanation of what the conference was and
what was done. His talk was in substance as follows: This convention was a gathering of student volunteers to the
service of missions from all parts of the world. A similar conference is held every four years—one for every student
generation. The Detroit convention was the tenth one of this kind. North Carolina sent 60 men as representatives at this
meeting. One of the most striking things of the meeting was the international aspect created by the varied representatives. The
building used was the Masonic temple, which was built at a cost of $11,000,000. The auditorium of this building, which
has a seating capacity of 4,000, was nearly filled at each conference. (Continued on page 2)
