THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 16, 1928

The busiest line in town

When you call our number and the operator says “line’s busy”, and after you’ve tried ten times more the chief operator says “there’s conversation on the line”—the explanation is simple enough.

The New Spring Braeburns are here and they're something to talk about
$40 $45
MELLON’S

BELK BROTHERS CO.

A Sale of Over 1000 New White BROADCLOTH SHIRTS
Collars Attached. Pretty Quality Broadcloth. All Sizes.
On Special Sale Now $1.35 or 3 for $4.00

Come and See the NEW SPRING SUITS and HATS
BELK BROTHERS CO.

Satisfaction
Davidson Book & Stationery Co.
Meet Your Friends Here

MR. KENDALL WEISIGER
(Continued from page 1)

coast, bum over Europe, get over the home complex, and find out what is going on in order to find the particular field in which he could be interested for life. The most successful vocation is the one that arises from an avocation. The pay motive and one’s natural desires are in such a way carried over into the realm of work. Vocational guidance is to help the student fit himself. In his decision many motives will enter. These are mainly the self-assertive motives, that is egotism, self-preservation, curiosity, and fine workmanship. Then there are also the sex motives and the social motives that will influence his choice of work. Before entering any established business the young man should first study the organization of the business and learn just where to begin in the work. It is not necessary, as has been the long-established opinion, to begin at the bottom and take all the hard knocks of the industry. Before he enters, the man is capable to start on a certain level and he should not necessarily start lower. The job should also be analyzed. It should be one of which there is the chance for success, one to which given, of which one can be proud, which offers a lifetime work and above all one in which there is room for advancement. The vital message which Mr. Weisiger brought was not to take the college diploma too seriously. The diploma is not a statement of a man’s worth. It is simply the evidence that he has completed the job.

DAVIDSON MATMEN
(Continued from page 1)

periods. Time advantage 2:42, 175lb class—Capt. Woodbury, V. M. I. defeated Hill, Davidson. Time advantage 9:06. Unlimited class—Christenberry, Davidson, threw Haase, V. M. I., with a body and arm hold. Time 5:38.

DR. BEN LACY
(Continued from page 1)

preacher is set a little apart from his fellows. He is set upon a pedestal as a model. 2. The long period of preparation appears a disadvantage for many. 3. Many are sensitive about speaking in public. 4. The choice of the location of home is removed from one’s desires to the dictates of his conscience. 5. Pecuniary rewards are less in the ministry. But these disadvantages are each overbalanced by a greater advantage. 1. The vocation is not an overcrowded one. 2. There is a great variety of work in the ministry. A friend to the judge and to the criminal, to the rich and poor, to the sick and healthy, he has a chance to come into contact and to teach in a great variety of ways. 3. It is an adventurous life. In the mountains of West Virginia, North Carolina, in the plains of Arkansas the minister has a horde of possibilities for adventure. 4. It is a lasting work. Its results do not pass with time but are for eternity. 5. Lastly, this calling is most like that of the Master. Through it one can become most like Him, and enter into the fullest fellowship with Him.

The first week of the program presented by the Vocational Guidance Institute has been devoted to the ministry as a possible choice for life work. The program was so arranged as to be of benefit not only to those who had not definitely decided to go into the ministry but also to those who have dedicated their lives to that service. The Y. M. C. A. procured several outstanding ministers to be on the hill for four nights this week. Monday night, Dr. E. G. Gammon, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte was on the campus and was interviewed byAll the men who wished to talk to him concerning the problems of the minister in the city church. Tuesday night Dr. R. D. Daffin, a missionary to Brazil, held interviews with all those who were considering work in the foreign field and were interested in the problems that the missionary has to meet. Wednesday night Dr. Ben R. Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary, made the formal speech for the week. Tonight Rev. J. M. Walker, who is Pastor of the Steele Creek Presbyterian Church near Charlotte, said to be the largest country church in the Southern Assembly, will hold interviews with all those men who wish to talk to him on the loyalty can be. Tr d some suggestions calling for frequent oratorical contests, and special features on campus problems. These men, a group of ministers in the surrounding territory, have graciously offered their time to any Davidson man to talk with them at any time concerning the ministry, its preparation, problems, and life. They will be glad to have any student call at their homes. They are: Dr. A. S. Johnson, pastor First Presbyterian Church; Dr. Edgar Gammon, pastor Myers Park Presbyterian Church, 506 Queens Road; Dr. Chas. R. Nisbet, pastor Caldwell Memorial Presbyterian Church, 1706 Park Drive; Dr. Luther Little, pastor First Baptist Church, North Tryon Street; Bishop E. A. Penick, Bishop North Carolina Diocese, 310 Monroe Road, all of Charlotte; and Dr. C. E. Raynol, pastor First Presbyterian Church, Statesville; Dr. R. A. White, pastor Presbyterian Church, Mooresville; Rev. Edgar Woods, pastor Presbyterian Church, Salisbury; and Dr. Jesse Rowan, pastor Presbyterian Church, Concord, N.C.

At the close of the meeting, nineteen men signified their intention of joining the Phi or of renewing an old allegiance. A larger number also expressed a desire to join the Eumenean. In order to make literary society membership open to every man on the campus, it was decided to abolish the five-dollar initiation fee for any men who wish to join this spring. The Eumenean decided to make its dues one dollar per semester instead of two. As a result of the new interest shown, especially among juniors and seniors, it seems that although society work was “down,” it is due for a big “comeback.” Although it is realized that the two societies can never hold the center of the stage as they once did, still there is a conviction that literary society work should hold a worthwhile place on the campus of every liberal arts college.

PHI LITERARY SOCIETY (Continued from page 1)

Boyce Martin and Walter Lingle expressed the opinion that lack of interesting programs had played a large part in the decline of the societies. They presented some suggestions calling for frequent oratorical contests and special features on campus problems. They also recommended that faculty members be included to give variety to the programs. There was a new enthusiasm evident throughout the meeting, and all present seemed determined to back the societies to the limit.

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY and TUESDAY
February 20 and 21.
Lon Chaney in “The Big City”

I. R. C. HEARS DR. BROWN

WEDNESDAY
February 22.
Richard Dix in “Sporting Goods”

THURSDAY
February 23.
Bebe Daniels in “Feel My Pulse”

FRIDAY
February 24.
Pola Negri in “The Secret Hour”

SATURDAY
February 25.
A Bob Custer Western

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Founded 1874
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS:
R. I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
A. DUNN, President

The New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.
CREDENZA, $300.00