LITTLE enemies and little wounds are not to be despised.—German Proverb.

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOOTBALL SATURDAY DAVIDSON-CLEMSON CLEMSON, S. C.

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 27, 1928 No. 2

Democratic Nominee Upheld as Smith Wins

SECOND WEEK IN OCTOBER SET FOR COLLEGIATE PRESS MEET HERE

CHARLOTTE FIRMS AND QUEENS WILL AID IN CONVENTION

Many College Annuals and Magazines to be Represented

PLAN BIG ENTERTAINMENT

Editorial and Business Staffs of Local Publications Are Planning the Forthcoming Event

October 11, 12, and 13 has been designated as the time when the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will convene here, according to an announcement yesterday by Aubrey Brown, in charge of arrangements here. The press body was invited here last spring when Duke was host to the young people representing newspapers, annuals, and magazines of the different colleges of this state and the acceptance was unanimous. A delightful program is being arranged for the instruction and entertainment of the press devotees when they come here next month. On Thursday afternoon there will be the registration and a reception. That night a banquet is planned at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel. The first business meeting will be held Friday morning and at noon a luncheon, the compliments of a Charlotte printing firm, will be given. Directly after noon a motorcade of some twenty cars will come from Charlotte to transport the entire group to Queens College for an afternoon session and a reception. That night will find the entertainment taking place at Hotel Charlotte, where the Observer Printing Company will be the hosts to a banquet and dance. The cars which are to go over at noon-time will bring the party back to Davidson before 12 o'clock that night. Saturday morning will be devoted to a business session until adjournment to another luncheon, compliments of a Charlotte printing establishment. The football (Continued on page 4)

ASSISTANT CHEER LEADERS ELECTED

Robertson and Heefner Chosen to Assist Myers

In the final tabulation of votes for assistant cheer leaders, E. S. Heefner and Roberson were chosen to be the two who will assist Nelson Myers with the cheerleading. Heefner was elected on the first ballot held last Tuesday morning in chapel, and Roberson was elected Wednesday morning on the second ballot, in the runoff between Roberson and Coker. The final vote was Roberson 148, Coker 116. There were only six men put before the student body for consideration. Last spring around 10 men of the Sophomore class were out at the baseball games assisting Nelson Myers. This year some did not return to school and some men quit, leaving only six Juniors in the running, Heefner, Roberson, Coker, Croom, DuBose, and Edleman. In the election Tuesday morning each ballot cast contained two men, Heefner being elected on this ballot. Wednesday morning the voters had a choice of one man from the two, Roberson and Coker. The final count was as follows: First ballot, Heefner 169, Roberson 112, Coker 112, Croom 55, DuBose 25, Edleman 48. On the runoff ballot the final result was Roberson 148, Coker 116. Although the two new assistants have not had much experience in the cheerleading line before coming to college, they showed themselves to be reasonably competent in the tryouts held last spring and this fall and also during the football game leader was made last spring when the baseball season started. During the baseball season and during the pep meetings this fall and also during the football game with Guilford last Saturday the six men were given a chance to display their ability before the student body. Nelson Myers, varsity cheerleader, has acted as coach to these men, instructing them in (Continued on page 3)

SEPT. 28th MARKS END OF FRESHMAN RUSHING BY FRATS

Bids Will Be Extended Friday Morning by Mail

VERY SHORT PERIOD

Day of Silence Between Freshmen and Fraternity Men Begins Thursday Night at Twelve

Thursday night at 12 o'clock the day of silence for the local fraternities will begin. This was announced Tuesday night by M. M. King, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, following a conference of the council, which is composed of representatives of all the national fraternities on the campus. All Freshmen in accordance with the Pan-Hellenic ruling will be required to be out of the fraternity houses by 10 o'clock Thursday night, the 27th. The bids will be mailed out after the post office has closed tonight and will be received by the Freshmen sometime during Friday morning. All Friday will be silent as far as the fraternity men are concerned. No fraternity man will be permitted to talk to a Freshman rushee except in the form of the usual salutation when passing on the campus. At 7:00 o'clock Friday night, the period of silence will be over. If a man receives more than one bid, representatives of each fraternity shall be given a half an hour conference with him, this to continue until every inviting fraternity has had a talk with the men that it has bid. King stated that the Pan-Hellenic Council will deal severely with any Freshman or fraternity man found breaking these rules. He said that he especially wanted the Freshmen to note the following (Continued on page 6)

“Y” Leaders Praise Christian Service

President and Secretary of Y Conduct Excellent Meeting

“Christian Living” was the theme of John Melton’s talk at the “Y” services Sunday, September 23. Camper O'Neal also made a short talk on the subject of “Serving Christ.” It was an all-Davidson meeting in which the president and secretary of the D. C. “Y” led the services. Professor Williams closed the exercises with a prayer. At the beginning of his talk Melton gave a short word of welcome on behalf of the Y. M. C. A. to both the new and old students. He urged every boy on the roll to use the “Y” and cooperate with the cabinet in its work. “Jesus Christ is what I am bringing to you tonight,” stated Melton. He then explained his text from Hebrews, the tenth chapter and nineteenth verse, “Having therefore brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus.” Each person gave a blood sacrifice of some animal to atone for their sins before the crucifixion of Christ. After giving His blood for us there were no more sacrifices because He had made the supreme sacrifice. It is necessary to draw near to Christ with a true heart and full assurance of faith after He has made such a sacrifice. It is hard to do so, but it is also a great privilege to come to Him. After one has come to Christ one must hold fast and not slip away from Him as it is so easy to do. The Apostle Paul is a good example of one who has held fast through everything. “It takes a man to do it,” said Melton. Consider one another in everything. Try to do as Christ did—He never forgot His disciples even to the last minute, in spite of all His conflicts. Speak and show your religion to others. There are millions of opportunities on this campus to speak of Jesus Christ. You are showing your religion by coming to meetings like these. Realize that your life here will be as it is in the future. One’s conduct today makes one’s life for him tomorrow. “Let us draw near, let us hold fast, consider (Continued on page 3)

Rhodes Scholarship Applications Urged

One Man to be Chosen From Two Upper Classes of North Carolina Colleges

The 1928 election of Rhodes scholars will be held on the coming 8th of December in North Carolina and several other Southern states and attention is hereby called to those wishing to make application for Rhodes Scholarships that all applications must be in to Dr. G. R. Vowles before the 13th of October. The scholars selected in the 1928 elections will enter Oxford in October, 1929. It will be of interest to students attending Davidson from states other than North Carolina that they can either make application in their home states or in North Carolina, provided they have attended college for at least two years in this state. A Rhodes Scholarship is tenable for three years and carries a stipend fixed at 400 pounds a year, which amounts to nearly $2,000. There is no restriction placed upon a Rhodes Scholar's choice of studies and all scholars are appointed without examination on the basis of their records in school and college. To be eligible for a scholarship, a candidate must: (a) Be a male citizen of the United States and unmarried. (b) Be between the ages of 19 and 25. (c) Have completed at least his Sophomore year in college. The qualities which will be considered in making the selection are: (1) Literary and scholastic ability and attainments, (Continued on page 6)

FACULTY ACCEPTS STUDENT PETITION REGARDING CHAPEL

Y. M. C. A. Assumes Control of Morning Prayers Immediately

One Y Cabinet Member to be Responsible for Each Week Until Christmas Holidays

In an announcement which temporarily settles the question of chapel control, paramount during the past week, Dr. William J. Martin, president of the college, stated that the faculty would yield the management of the morning worship period to the Y. M. C. A. cabinet. Dr. Martin, inTurning the position over to Nelson Myers, “Y” cabinet representative, Tuesday morning, declared that the action of the faculty was temporary, being merely an experiment on their part. The testing of the new plan will last until the Christmas holidays. Such a proposition puts the student body and Y. M. C. A. cabinet on trial, with the probability that if the experiment is a success, student leadership of the devotional exercises will become an established principle. Davidson would, in such a case, stand alone in a field of comparatively unique service. The “Y” cabinet will endeavor to accomplish the threefold purpose of the chapel exercises, viz., to bring the student into closer touch with God, with the faculty, and with his fellow students. The last named purpose is the only one that has in the past been fully realized.

(Continued on page 4)

ARRANGEMENT TEMPORARY

W. L. Dumas Chosen President in First Meeting of Board

A. N. Brown, J. R. Covington, and W. L. Dumas were elected on the second ballot taken by the student body to select the Board of Publications for the ensuing year. In a meeting of the newly elected board, held soon after their election, Dumas, the business manager of Quips and Cranks, was elected to be the president of the board. The three college publications each nominated two men to be voted upon by the entire student body. The six were: W. M. Powell, I. A. Knox, W. B. McQueen, A. N. Brown, J. R. Covington, and W. L. Dumas. Only one man was dropped on the first ballot, McQueen, the editor of the Chameleon. This is the first time in several years that the respective editors and business managers of the three publications have been nominated for the publications’ board.

Honorary Frats to Bid New Men

O. D. K. Allowed to Set Own Date—Will Probably be Week Following

Tuesday, October 9, has been set as Bid Day for the honorary fraternities on the Davidson campus this year. A list of prospective members will be published in The Davidsonian, October 11. On Monday, October 8, the fraternities will turn in the names of these new men to the secretary of the honorary fraternity council, who will in turn give them to The Davidsonian. Bids will be issued by all the honorary fraternities on October 8 with the exception of Omicron Delta Kappa. This fraternity is allowed by the fraternity council to choose any date for Bid Day, but in all probability, they will hold Tap Day within the next 10 days after October 9. A schedule of meetings of the honorary fraternities for the year will be found on page 3, columns 1, 2, and 3.

JOHNSON PROCURED FOR EASTERN CLUB

He Will Teach at Woodbury Forest During the Winter

Hal Johnson, a prominent member of last year’s Senior class and star performer on the varsity baseball nine for three years, has recently been sold to a Baltimore baseball club. Johnson played ball with the Durham Bulls during the past season, rolling up a splendid record for himself. His phenomenal fielding, which won him the sobriquet of “Tar Bucket” on the local campus, has held up, and his batting average shows him to be in his old form, as he averaged around .375 last season. Johnson finished seventh in the entire league.

(Continued on page 3)

DAVIDSONIAN STAFF

A meeting of all members of the editorial and reportorial staffs of The Davidsonian and of all freshmen who wish to try out for the Reporters’ Club will be held in the office of The Davidsonian, Monday night at 8:00 o'clock. At that time editorial plans for the year will be outlined and instructions will be given to all those connected with the publication of the paper.

CULLEM CONDUCTS GLEE CLUB TRYOUT

Many of Old Members Graduated, Leaving the Nucleus Weak

Monday afternoon Professor Cullum introduced something new in the history of Davidson, for at that time, the first part of a complete musical census of the Freshman class was taken. Not only was a census taken of the instrumentalists but of the vocalists as well. The occasion for this census was the endeavor to find those having ability enough to fill the vacancies left in the Glee Club, Concert Orchestra, and Jazz Orchestra. All upper-classmen trying out for the Glee Club for the first time tried out at the same time with the Freshmen, and those in both groups showing up especially well were asked to meet with the old members of the Glee Club for the final try-outs Monday night. Much interest was shown in the Glee Club and a very large number of upper-classmen and Freshmen tried out, many probably being influenced by the rumor that the Glee Club is to make a tour of Europe next summer. Because of the large number trying out for the club, Mr. Cullum has been able to fill every vacancy with a man showing real ability and in several cases, new men have ousted old men from their places on the club. Mr. Cullum announces that the club is much more balanced as to voices than it was last year and that the club should come out even better than last year’s club in the state contest. It will be remembered that last year’s club took second place in the state contest, losing to Duke by less than half a point. However, there is much work to be done in getting the club in shape for its first contest, for besides losing the whole quartet of last year, it has also lost two soloists and the novelty trio besides. But the material at hand seems to be quite able to take their places.

CHAMELEON WILL COME OUT OCTOBER 15

Few Changes: “Excepting Omission of Book Reviews, and Formation of Poetry Section

There will be no radical changes in the Chameleon this year. This was the announcement made by W. B. McQueen, editor of the magazine for this year. He added that the same policy in regards to the cover would be followed as was taken last year, in that the color of the cover would be changed with each issue. The general makeup of the magazine will be the same as it has been for the past few years. Two changes that will be made are, there will be a definite section of the magazine devoted to poetry, the custom in the past having been to drop in a few lines of poetry wherever the editor saw fit, making a jumble of the pages. This year, feeling that more attention would be drawn to the poetry, it was decided to give all acceptable poems a section of the magazine. Another change is the elimination of the book reviews. McQueen stated that very little if any attention was paid to the book reviews, and that also the reviews were of necessity of books just off the press, therefore it was decided by the editorial staff to cut out these reviews. The editor said that any humorous sketches of an acceptable nature would be considered for publication. By this is not meant any slapstick stuff, but real humor, of a literary nature. The first issue to appear this year will

(Continued on page 3)

STUDENTS APPROVE OF N. Y. GOVERNOR BY MAJORITY OF 15

Students Approve of New York Governor by Majority of 15—Seventy Per Cent Cast Votes in Straw Balloting

HOOVER BREAKS SOUTH

Ex-Commerce Secretary Carries Twelve States Represented as Compared with Smith’s Five

Alfred E. Smith carried Davidson College with a plurality of 15 votes in the presidential straw vote conducted among the students by “The Davidsonian.” The weekly journal conducted this straw vote Monday, September 24, under joint auspices with “College Humor,” which is holding a national contest on college campuses. The result of the entire vote will be published at a later date. The total number of votes cast by the students was 411, being some 70 per cent of the student body; 213 of these votes went to Smith, 198 to Hoover. Last April, before the parties had designated their respective nominees, “The Davidsonian” conducted a straw vote for the entire field of candidates for nomination. At that time Smith received 201 votes and Hoover 169, Smith having a plurality of 32 votes. These figures show that in spite of Senator Robinson's recent visit to the campus, Hoover has made a decided gain. Of the total of 343 Democrats voting, 196 were for Smith, 147 for Hoover. Thirty-six Republicans cast votes, 32 going for Hoover and four for Smith. Thirty-two Independents were divided so that 19 votes went for Hoover, 13 for Smith. Smith carried North Carolina by 113 to 102—a plurality of 11 votes. He also carried South Carolina, Texas, Louisiana, and Oklahoma. Hoover carried Virginia, Mississippi, West Virginia, Georgia, Pennsylvania, New York, Florida, Tennessee, Missouri, Alabama, Kansas, and New Jersey.

(Continued on page 6)

GLEE CLUB PLANS INTENSE PROGRAM

Fewer Men to Make Trips Than Formerly, Asserts Abernathy

Mr. Cullum evidently has plenty of good men left, for he has announced to Sid Abernathy, manager of the club this year, that the club will be ready for its first concert on November 1. Manager Abernathy has announced that the number of men making the Glee Club trips this year will probably be smaller than it has been for several years. This is due to the fact that an earnest endeavor is being made to double the talent in the Concert and Jazz Orchestras as well as having the men in the two orchestras sing with the club also. A tentative trip has been announced for the club as follows: Leaving Davidson December 6—Troy, State Contest in Raleigh, Greensboro, Reidsville, Danville, Hollins, Sweetbriar, Randolph-Macon, and Winston-Salem. The Glee Club has not made a trip through Virginia in several years and much interest is accordingly being shown in this trip. Besides this tour, there will be many short trips to Lincolnton, Charlotte, Denver, Badin, Concord, and several other places, including a weekend tour into South Carolina, taking in Converse, Limestone, and one or two places as yet undecided. Professor Cullum announces that a cello has been added to the Concert Orchestra. This will fill a long-felt want and will bring the Concert Orchestra that much nearer its ideal—a Symphony Orchestra. The Concert Orchestra will occupy an even larger place on the Glee Club programs this year than ever before. At a recent meeting of the representatives of the musical organizations on the Hill, it was decided to form a Glee Club Association taking in every musical organization with the exception of the R.

(Continued on page 3)