October 18, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

"Y" Reception

The Y. M. C. A. began on last Friday night the first of a series of informal receptions in honor of the members of the Freshman class. Camper O'Neal, “Y” secretary, with the assistance of E. P. Moye and Robert Kennedy, greeted the new men as they called during the evening. Cold refreshments were served.

Pi Kappa Phi Entertains

The Pi Kappa Phi fraternity had as its week-end guests: Misses Dee Hall, Scottie Johnson, Dolly Moore, Jo Wharton, Jean Marion, of Charlotte; Sandy Sory, Fredonia, Ky.; Mary Poe, Greenville, S. C.; Elizabeth Darling, Margaret Hood, Hilda Davidson, Greensboro, N. C.; Blanche Alexander, Statesville, N. C.; Lucy Pannell, Martinsville, Va.; Julia Hicks, Oxford, N. C.; Rose Curry, Clio, S. C.; Constance Gwaltney, Reidsville, N. C.; Nell Sprate, Manning, S. C.; Mary Clarke, Ida Belle Gilland, Elizabethtown, N. C.; Frances Knight, Dillon, S. C.; Sally Harrison, Sarah Hargrove, York, S. C.; Mrs. W. W. Harrison, York, S. C.; and Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Darling, Greensboro, N. C.

Sonny Pullen, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Zeke Johnston, Duncan Morton, Wilbur McPhaul, Maury Johnston, Charlotte, N. C.; Charles Hunter, Elizabethtown, N. C.; Joe Jenkins, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Worth Williams, Lawrence Thomas, Fred Gaskins, Greensboro, N. C.; John Womack, Reidsville, N. C.; Julian Rogers, Jake Owing, Russell King, Noddy Owings, Spartanburg, S. C.; Wayne Welborn, Bully Brawley, John Fowler, Statesville, N.C.

The chaperones were: Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Vowles, and Professor and Mrs. E. J. Cullum.

Delta Theta Chi Guests

The guest list of the Delta Theta Chi fraternity house party includes: Misses Nida De Pass, Georgia Spratt, Queens; Lillian Newell, Salem; Edith Storm, Charlotte; Donna Franklin, Randolph-Macon; Helen Thomas, Rock Hill; Lib Clarke and Anna McCoy, Charlotte; Ruth Coleman, Olive Singlow, Shelby.

Among the alumni of the fraternity present at the game on Saturday and remaining for the week-end were: Billy Long, Charlotte; Stewart Buchanan, Bill Story, Sam Story, Shelby; W. O. Wright, Winston-Salem.

Pyramid House Party

Week-end guests of the Pyramid Club include: Misses Pat Freeman, Virginia Miller, and Pat Miller, of Greensboro; Lottie Rhodes, Asheville; Margaret Strong, Charlotte; Louis Harry, Salisbury.

Guests among friends of the alumni of the club were: Jimmie Trotter, Glattys Gilmer, Bill Strong, Bill McAuley, John McNeely and Mike Patrick.

K. A.’s Are Hosts

The Kappa Alpha entertained over the week-end with a house party. Those remaining after the game were served with punch, cakes and sandwiches at an informal reception Saturday night. Among the guests were: Misses Emma Catron, Charlotte; Carolyn Winston, Nancy Macfie, May Moore, and Elizabeth West, Converse; Emma Barton, Lucy Curry and Mary Faulkner, Salem College; Anne Faysoux Johnston, Queens; Corrine Cook, N. C. C. W.; Kitty Minus, Greer, S. C.; Helen Tillotson, Hartsville, S. C.; Regina Horn, Mocksville, N. C.; Alice Caldwell, High Point, N. C.; Messrs. Frank McCrary and Jack Cranford, Ashboro, N. C.; Pennin Dargan, Mullen McCloudan Dupre, of Wofford, and George Batte, Concord, N.C.

T. U. O.’s Have Visitors

The young ladies present at the Theta Upsilon Omega house party were: Misses Elizabeth Gatewood, Ruffin; Charlotte Koonce, Richland; Lib Ingram, High Point; Evelyn Wagner, Ellen Hawkins, Evelyn Josephs, Henry Higgins, Becky McGarity, Charlotte; Margaret McCorkle, Asheville; Eva Wiseman, Davidson.

Jack Hand, Jim Laird, Warren Smith, Huck Harris, Boy Lowrance, Paul Chusey and O’Key Allison, alumni of the fraternity, visited the chapter house during the week-end.

Kappa Sigma Sponsors Large House Party

The visitors entertained at the Kappa Sigma house during the week-end were: Misses Tine Thompson, Dunn; Dorothy Cunningham, Columbia, S. C.; Evelyn Jackson, Dot Hendon, Asheville; Lillian Kendall, Evelyn Bayer, Charlotte; Elizabeth Player, Rossane Willcox, Winthrop; Della Stone, Decatur, Ga.; Frances Williams, Nancy Carr Terry, Salem; Ida Allison, Queens; Frances Thompson, Lexington; Ann Carter Marsh, High Point.

Other guests of the fraternity included: Joe Crawford, Wesley Muckenfuss, “Lefty” Crutchfield, Billy Wolfe, T. W. Bethea, Bob Walker, all of Wofford; “Dodo” McDowd, U. of S. C.; Bob McConnel, Wick Black, George Miley and Mr. and Mrs. “Oz” Bethea.

Pi K. A.

The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity gave its second house party of the year last week-end. A good many of the old alumni were back for the party. Among the out-of-town guests were: Miss Sara Efird and Miss Sue Jane Mauney, Salem College; Miss Tommie Davis, N. C. C. W.; Miss Helen Sherrill and Miss May Anderson, Converse College; Mr. J. S. McRae, Maxton, N. C.; Mr. John Akers, Charlotte; Mr. Clement Penn, Greensboro; Mr. Paul Sutton, Lake Waccamaw, N. C.; Mr. Ralph Falls, Gastonia, N. C., and Mr. Bill Akers, Lincolnton, N.C.

Sigma Delta Party

The Sigma Delta fraternity entertained at the first party of the year. The list of guests included: Misses Ruth Roark, Edith Cochran; Dorothy Rankin, of Charlotte; Elizabeth White and Hannette Babbington, Concord; Virginia Wilkinson, Converse; Johnny Sharpe, Josephine Hill, Burlington; Waldene Stephens, N. C. C. W.; Margaret Weatherby, Charlotte Humphries, Hollins, Converse; Captain and Mrs. Elkins were chaperones.

S. A. E.

The S. A. E. fraternity included among its young lady visitors for the Wofford game and the party following: Misses Rockdale Prince, Converse; Bert Sterling, Wilmington; Ann White, Raleigh; Zora Foy, Reidsville; Mary McKinnon, Hartsville, S. C.; Lib Patterson, Charlotte; Rosalie Wiley, Salisbury; Virginia Brudlaw, Valdosta, Ga.; Dot Dillard, Charlotte.

Among the friends and alumni who were visitors at the chapter house were: Martin Cranford, '28; Bill Covington, '27; R. H. Tucker, Jr., Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Dunklin, Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Covington; Misses Pat and Elliott Mclean.

STUDENT BODY (Continued from page 1)

pointed out that only by the cohesion of the younger Democrats could the national party be held together in the future. He also made clear that this is not a unique club but is similar to many others being formed or already formed throughout the colleges of the United States. The president continued and urged all the members present to enroll as many men as they possibly could. He stated that if a man is a Democrat it is not necessary for him to be approached by one of the members of the club—all he has to do is to seek out one of the membership committee as given above and request him to give to him a membership card. This card, furnished by the National Democratic Headquarters, reads as follows:

Young People’s Democratic Clubs of North Carolina. “For Democrats—From Constable to President.”

I desire to become enrolled as a member of the __________ Club, and pledge my active support to the Democratic tickets, both State and National, in the present campaign and election.

(Signed) _______________

In connection with the formation of this club it is noted that the students of the college have twice given their support to Governor Smith, once in the straw vote held last spring and the second time in the straw vote held this fall, both of the contests being supported by “The Davidsonian.”

Ruth—“What a terrible scar. Did you get it in battle?”
Glenn—"Yes.”
Ruth—“Which one?”
Glenn—“I don’t remember. I have been married over a year.”

Father (presenting daughter with new flivver roadster)—“Well, how do you like it?”
Daughter (disappointed)—“W-w-w why it’s awful cute, but Daddy—I’m too old to pedal it”—Grinnell Malteaser.

DR. THOMPSON TO SPEAK TO MINISTERIAL BAND

Dr. Taliaferro Thompson is scheduled to speak to the Ministerial Band Sunday afternoon, 2:30, in Shearer Hall. A double purpose can be fulfilled in this meeting. The ministerial students will have an opportunity to get in closer touch with Dr. Thompson than would otherwise be possible; have advantage of practical advice of one who has had much experience in training ministers; and it can help the student in his choice of seminaries. The officers of the ministerial organization urge that every member be present.

Compilation of Six Year Frat Averages Student Body Averages Included in Averages Released by Hengeveld

Six-year averages released by Mr. Hengeveld, registrar of the college, reveal some interesting facts in regard to the fraternity averages of the various social groups on the campus. The averages refer to only eight of the nine national organizations on the hill, one national having averages for four years only, this fraternity being Pi Kappa Phi. Among the three local groups Delta Theta Chi has a five-year average and the Pyramid Club and the Sigma Delta Club have an average for two years.

Taking the total available averages for all the fraternities in the years available, the scholarship records of the various fraternities are as follows: Pi Kappa, 84.18 (six years); Kappa Alpha, 83.66 (six years); Theta Upsilon Omega, 83.70 (five years); Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 83.34 (six years); Pi Kappa Phi, 83.28 (four years); Student Body average, 82.97 (five years, not including 1927-28); Phi Gamma Delta, 82.48 (six years); Beta Theta Pi, 82.21 (six years); and Kappa Sigma, 79.05 (six years).

The averages for the Pyramid Club, 85.93 (one year and one semester); Delta Theta Chi, 84.44 (five years); and Sigma Delta, 83.81 (two years). On the basis of long-time averages Delta Theta Chi has the highest average of both the national and local fraternities. Also figuring on this basis, eight groups are above the average of the student body and three are below it. The leading scholarship records for the past six years, the student body averages and theAverages are: 1922-23, Kappa Alpha, 82.30; Student Body, 82.12; and Kappa Sigma, 77.60; 1923-24, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 84.18; Student Body, 82.26; and Kappa Sigma, 70.06; 1924-25, Phi Gamma Delta, 83.91; Student Body, 83.09; and Kappa Sigma, 79.30; 1925-26, Pi Kappa Alpha, 85.79; Student Body, 82.73; and Kappa Sigma, 80.71; 1926-27, Beta Theta Pi, 86.32; Student Body, 84.05; and Pi Kappa Phi, 82.82; 1927-28, Kappa Alpha, 86.88; and Pi Kappa Phi, 83.71. The average of the student body for this year has not been determined. The highest single average made by any chapter was by Kappa Alpha in 1927-28, with an average of 86.88. Kappa Alpha has held the top position twice, Phi Gamma Delta, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Beta Theta Pi, and Pi Kappa Alpha have each led the rest one time.

The Sad Widow Speaks Up

An Altamont man died the other day and the preacher was dispensing the salve that is usually spread during a funeral sermon. In the course of the sermon he said, “the deceased was torn from the arms of his loving wife, who thus is left a lonely, disconsolate widow at the early age of 25 years”— “Twenty-two if you please,” sobbed she from behind her handkerchief.

SENIORS HOLD FORTH AT FIRST “SMOKER”

Social Function Held by Lenoir Class in Maxwell-Chambers Hotel

Last week the Senior class gathered at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel for the first of a series of smokers held for, by, and of the Senior class. At present it is planned to have several smokers and social events for the Senior class. At first when the seniors began to arrive each member was filled with food, and according to the seniors this was the most enjoyable part of the smoker. Following the feed, smokes of various kinds were provided. Dick Flinn had prepared a program which was then presented. The program opened with the rendition of several songs. Paul Fry presided at the piano, while the songs were given by the members of the Senior class present. A Senior quartet, composed of Sid Abernethy, Bill Archie, Knox Poole, and Chat Clarke, gave several numbers. The feature of the evening, however, was a political discussion revolving about the respective merits of the two leading nominees. Hub Knox was the floor leader for the Democrats and Smith, while Lawrence Dumas was the Hooverite leader. Several drastic changes in the personnel of the class officers were suggested, also in the number of titles of the various offices. Due to other engagements, limited amount of time at the disposal of the class, and other considerations, it was decided to postpone the discussion and elections until the next smoker held by the class.

“Y” BULLETIN BOARD OF SERVICE TO ALL

On any campus there is a great need for a general bulletin-board to which all the students have access. It is the purpose of the boards at the Y. M. C. A. to fill this need on the Davidson campus. The “Y” is an ideal place for it because of its convenient location, and because so many of the students use it every day. There are three boards at the “Y”. The one on the left of the front door is used for general announcements concerning student activities. Any personal announcements, such as the sale of books, etc., should not go on this board. Immediately after chapel, the announcements made there that morning are posted for the benefit of the men who were unable to attend that morning. A list of the men in the infirmary may be found here from day to day. This is to give the friends of the patients an opportunity to know where they are, and to encourage visiting the sick students. The board on the right is for special “Y” announcements. The board on the inside is for announcements of literature. In the next few days there will be, on this board, a display of pamphlets of various natures. These boards have been in use on the Hill for approximately two years and during that time have been of much convenience to the student body.

(Continued from page 1)

Beginning to come in from all over the state, but as yet many of them have not been sent in. There are expected to be some 75 representatives of various publications of the colleges of this state present at the convention, discounting the local representatives. There will probably be two other speakers beside Mr. Daniels and Mr. Murrill; but the committee in charge does not feel at liberty to disclose any very explicit information regarding them at the present time.

DRUGS SAVE TWENTY-SIX CENTS!

GENUINE GILLETTE BLADES And Large Tube Shaving Cream Together For FIFTY-NINE CENTS

SODA PRESCRIPTIONS WHITE DRUG COMPANY FOUNTAIN PENS TOBACCO

TRUTHS

DAVIDSON—An Honor College CHESTERFIELDS—An Honor Cigarette Yours, CHESTERFIELD BILL.

PHYSICAL EXAMS FOR JUNIOR CLASS

Examination of First Three Classes Completed This Week

Carrying out the policy of “a physical examination for every student in the college,” Dr. MacConnell, the college physician, and Captain Pritchett, the physical director, made an examination of the members of the Junior class the first of last week. Last week all the men in the Sophomore class were gone over for possible illness. The whole of last week was spent on the Sophomore class. Due to the failure of several of the men in the class to report the examination was not completed until last Friday night. Men that did not report at the scheduled time were subjected to a fine of two dollars and a half. This same policy of fining the men when they fail to report will continue in the dealings with the Junior and Senior classes. On Monday night of this week the first 25 men in the Junior class were physically examined. On Tuesday night the next 25 were taken, last night the third 25 men were gone over, and tonight the remainder of the class will be examined, together with all men that have missed their appointment through some valid reason. Men that missed their time will have to wait until some future time and will be fined two dollars and a half. Dr. MacConnell stated that although great care had always been taken in regard to the students’ health, this is the first time that a systematic study has been made of each student's condition. Hitherto a perfunctory examination has been made of the Freshman class, but after that no real attention has been paid to the physical condition of the student.

$20,000 ORGAN FOR CHAMBERS BUILDING

No Official Announcement Made as to Type of Organ Which Will be Installed

Although it has not been officially announced it is almost certain that the auditorium of New Chambers will be equipped with a pipe organ of about $20,000 value. The type of organ has not as yet been selected although it is thought that it will be of special construction. Dr. Ninniss, pipe organ director at Queens College, Charlotte, N. C., who helped install the organ at the new Methodist church in Charlotte, will direct the installation of the organ in New Chambers. It is probable that an instructor in pipe organ will be added to the faculty within the next year or so, the new organ being used for practice.

CAPTAIN PRITCHETT

(Continued from page 1)

Things are of good report; if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things.” The reviewer, however, realizes that opinions of good and bad criticism may differ.

Fresh Country Vegetables STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES

FIRST ISSUE OF CHAM

(Continued from page 1)

Store of poetry. He appears to fall below the level of his previous work, but at that he is easily the outstanding poet at Davidson today. Queen, the most prolific writer in the school, contributes six varied poems. Possibly the best of these in point of rhyme and meter is the “Song to Jes.” Riven, an absentee, has two good poems in this issue, his touch of pessimism and cynicism is a steady, relieving spot in the garden of moonlight and roses which is the typical air of Chameleon poems. Other contributors to this issue were Clifton and Wynburn, both contributing good poems. The reviewer desires to go on record as opinionating that this issue is good, not because of its excellence, but because it is less susceptible to adverse criticism.

Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers BARNETT and COMPANY DAVIDSON, N. C.

COLLEGE JEWELRY Watches and Clocks Sheaffer Pens and Pencils Seal Stationery Pennants and Pillows Athletic Supplies Wildcat Belts W. S. HENDERSON Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C.

WHEN THE LIGHTNING STRIKES—

McAlister Carson (’13), Mgr.

DISHONESTY losses each year furnish an impressive lesson to those employers who carry no such insurance and have to go down in their pockets. No one knows where the lightning will strike! See us for protection.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C. M. B. Speir, Jr. (’26)

Have you ever tried asking your friends? Any man who wears John Wards will tell the same story. The leathers in John Wards are choicer, wear better. The fit and workmanship are more expert. They have more style appeal to men of the better class. The prices? $7 and $9.

John Ward Men’s Shoes INCORPORATED — REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.

Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark, and Philadelphia

On display By WM. H. BAILEY Davidson, N. C.

A good shoe to ask for by name —HORSEGUARDS