The Davidsonian

Managing Editor: W. B. ARP
Managing Editor: J. B. MORIA
Managing Editor: C. R. LAKE
Athletic Editor: B. A. WILSON
Feature Editor: W. L. LINGLE
Associate Editor: F. C. WITHERS
Associate Editor: W. INES
Associate Editor: L. C. WADSWORTH
Alumni Editor: R. C. WARDLAW
Exchange Editor: R. S. ABERNETHY
Assistant Business Manager: S. J. ALLISON
Assistant Business Manager: W. M. POWELL
Subscription Manager: P. H. CARRISON
Circulation Manager: B. W. DICKSON
Solicitor: S. W. MORRIS
Solicitor: W. B. McGUIRE
Solicitor: E. H. McCALL

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President: W. H. BAILEY
Vice-President: P. ANDERSON
Secretary-Treasurer: P. McBRYDE
Members: S. R. KER, W. McDERMID, A. T. EDELMAN, W. B. QUEEN, ALLAN FREEMAN, F. D. MILLER, P. B. V.
A. MILTON, E. S. HEEFNER, R. T. NUNAN, R. F. JARRATT, R. W. KIRKPATRICK, W. R. WEAVER, Z. V. LONG

APRIL 4, 1928

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
"The Livest Wire on the Hill"
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

EDITORIAL

THE INSPECTION TODAY

Today the Davidson military unit will be inspected by officers designated for that purpose by the War Department. These officers
will examine carefully every detail connected with the battalion here. The equipment, as well as the personnel of the entire
unit, will be subjected to a close scrutiny by these competent officials. Such an inspection means much to the officers
in charge of the military department here, but it will mean quite as much to the students and to the
college.

For the last two years, Davidson has been awarded a Distinguished Rating by the inspecting officers, and it is hoped
by all concerned that such an honor will again be achieved this year. This rating scale has placed Davidson in
the list of such schools as V. M. I., The Citadel, Auburn, Georgia Tech, and other institutions which emphasize the
military department much more than it is emphasized here.

According to all reports, competition will be much keener this year than it has been in former years. The officers
have already been to Auburn, Tennessee, and several other schools before coming here, and reports have it that the units
of these schools have shown much improvement over last year. This means that unless the Davidson battalion shows a proportional
improvement, the unit will not receive the distinction which has been bestowed on it for the last two years.

At a time like this, it would not be the best of taste to enter into a discussion as to
the relative benefits and evils of the training corps in the various institutions over the country. Several institutions have expressed
dissatisfaction with their military departments, and there has been much more discussion this year than ever before concerning compulsory military
training. This neither proves anything nor does it disprove anything. With such varying situations as exist over the country, one
cannot draw any logical conclusions from a single incident. An article could be written which would nominally prove the case
either affirmatively or negatively—according to the specific institution chosen as an example to prove the case.

There has been, however, no direct criticism of the unit here at Davidson. Naturally, there have been some minor complaints
from those who complain about everything, but these, as usual, have amounted to very little. Since no vote has been
taken, and since no consensus of opinion has been secured from the student body, we hesitate to say what is
the true feeling of the students in the matter. The increasing number of students taking the advanced course in their
junior and senior years is the only evidence that could be taken to prove the few complaints wrong.

The unit will be judged by the men who will see seventeen different units of this corps area on their
best behavior. It is the duty of each member of the battalion to contribute all that he can to the
success of this inspection.

TAP DAY

Some time within the next few days, the Davidson circle of Omicron Delta Kappa will hold its annual spring Tap
Day. The leaders of the rising senior class and the men in that class deemed worthy of such an honor
by the Delta circle will be extended a bid to membership by the fraternity. A smaller number of men will
be selected from the present senior class. This will be the final election from the class of 1928, and the
men chosen this time together with the men chosen at the two previous elections will constitute the total membership of
O. D. K. from the class graduating this June. Naturally, in some few points, the opinion of ten or twelve
men is apt to vary from the opinion of the student body, this will perhaps give rise to some criticism
of the local circle. But the number must be limited somewhere, and it is difficult to discriminate between some men.

The two groups of men who will be tapped represent the two phases of Omicron Delta Kappa. The rising seniors
represent the actual service which the various circles render their respective institutions. These men will be active throughout the whole
of next year, and it will be their duty to delve into various problems of the campus and endeavor to
improve conditions here in whatever way they see fit. The services rendered vary with the men elected throughout the years.
And since service is one of the fundamental bases of the fraternity, it is well to bring this forcefully before
the men who will soon be initiated.

The seniors elected represent another phase of Omicron Delta Kappa—that of honor to whom honor is due. The present seniors
will be unable to give much of their time or of their labors to the circle and to the college
after they are initiated. They will probably not receive as much benefit from the fraternity as have those who know
its real purpose and aim, and have worked with it for twelve months. But these men will be honored for
their conspicuous attainments and services in their extra-curricular activities. It is rather unfortunate that all the men of the senior
class who are elected to O. D. K. could not be elected at one time and be able to give
as much of their time as possible to furthering the aims of the organization. This is impossible, however, but if
it could be worked, the services of twelve or fifteen men working throughout all of their senior year would indeed
be notable.

The members of O. D. K. during the present year have accomplished nothing outstanding, nor have they abolished any evils
in the student body. They do not claim to have done anything like this, although it has been their goal
throughout the year to contribute something of real value to their alma mater through their services to her. The best
interests of the college and the student body as a whole have always been before them, and whether they have
succeeded or not remains to be judged by others. It would not be boasting, we believe, to say that the
members have attempted to accomplish several things. In some of these, they have met with limited success while in others
they have failed completely. It is not this point which should be emphasized, however. The men who do receive this
honor are to be congratulated. They have received an honor which is due them. But in remembering this honor, they
should also remember the debt they owe to their institution and to the fraternity, and strive always to attempt to
repay this debt in some small way.

MORE ELECTIONS

With political arguments, both local and national, occupying the center of all attention, it is quite natural that Davidson should
divert its interest to the national side as soon as the local fights are over. In view of this fact,
The Davidsonian will conduct a straw vote some time within the next few weeks in an attempt to discover Davidson’s
choice for President of the United States. We have no warped ideas as to the national influences of the results
of such an action, nor do we believe that all other candidates will withdraw from the race as soon as
the candidate is chosen here. The balloting will serve, however, to prove whether or not Davidson men know who is
running and the relative merits of such a candidate.

This election will also aid in the tabulating of votes from all the North Carolina schools, since the other Tar
Heel institutions are conducting a similar campaign. The Independent, of Boston, is attempting to secure a consensus of opinion from
all the colleges in the United States, but the vote at Davidson will not be connected with this campaign in
any way.

Even though the result of the ballot will prove nothing, it is hoped that the men here will co-operate in
the proper spirit. It will aid no one to vote for fictitious personages or to vote without serious consideration of
the candidates, but it will be a great help if the entire student body will enter into the campaign in
the proper spirit. The Davidsonian is not sponsoring the forming of any parties nor does it approve of any speeches
for or against the candidates.Various candidates. Since it would be impossible to hear any of the candidates personally and direct
the choice through this medium, it was thought best to allow every student to form his own opinion from his
own personal knowledge of the merits of the various candidates. The ballots will be taken to every man's room and
he will be asked to vote then. The time for balloting will be announced in chapel and it is hoped
that every man will try to be in his room at that time, or leave his proxy with his roommate.
The ballot will be of little value if only a small percentage of the student body votes. But if everyone
will take an interest in it, and vote seriously when they are given the opportunity, a truthful idea of the
candidate the students prefer will be the result. An attempt will also be made to secure the votes of the
faculty members to see their choice of candidates. The comparison of the two votes taken will be interesting. At present,
Hoover is leading as the choice of the college students in various parts of the country. A few votes have
already been taken and Hoover leads as a result of the tabulation of these votes. Cornell is the latest to
endorse the Secretary, Stanford being the first since he is an alumnus of that institution. Whether or not Davidson is
thinking along the same lines as these other colleges will be proved when the votes are counted.

APRIL THE SIXTH

Living in an apparent state of peace and quietude, it is difficult to realize that only eleven years ago the
United States declared war on the Imperial German and Austrian governments. From a neutral position, the richest nation in the
world was forced into active warfare. For a year and a half this country contributed gold and men in an
effort to overcome the nation threatening the world. Peace was declared and the world was adjudged safe for democracy. A
few years later, the nation considered by some to have been the deciding factor in the victory is looked upon
almost with contempt by the nations to whom the richest nation had lent money. For the rich nation has committed
a deplorable faux pas in attempting to collect this money. Nominally a loan, the creditor nations now consider it a
gift. The nation that fought so gloriously to make the world safe for democracy is now landing troops in a
small and insignificant country in an attempt to “protect its interests” there. Two other small nations in the same general
section are under control of the troops of this great nation. Last year at this time, this nation, along with
other powerful nations, was landing troops in a much larger country to protect the business enterprises which had practically stripped
the large country of its natural resources. But the world had to be made safe for democracy.

It was our conception for some time that pacifists were the weak-kneed, timid brethren who were afraid they would be
drafted if war was declared. Possibly there are some of this type in that great group of people who oppose
war. But by far the majority of these people are those who realize the sordidness and bleakness of war stripped
of all its glamour. It was our conception that all the great nations were noble and wonderful, they never fought
unless they were attacked and needed to preserve the sanctity of their nation and home. A little study of the
causes of wars in the last century has opened this field before us. The “protect our interests” theme has been
given as the main reason for war during the past century, but this theme translated in common language means that
the nation is greedy for more wealth, more land, and more power. But the wail of a few will not
be heard by the ears of those who are anxious for aggrandizement. The powers that be will hide behind the
hackneyed excuse and continue to do as they please. And many will continue to follow in their footsteps, believing they
are following a worthy and noble cause. Perhaps it may be worthy, perhaps it may be noble,—there will always be
many who will convince themselves that it is just that, but there are others who are already convinced that such
is not the case.

This brings us to the point of questioning the veracity and validity of those who uphold the preparedness program. And
this is a point about which we are unable to express our opinions. Perhaps we would be called biased and
bigoted were we to give vent to our thoughts. We find refuge in the trite platitude—de gustibus non est disputandum.

VALE

It seems to be our habit to spread our adieus over a space of several weeks. We merely wanted to
thank all the supporters and subscribers of this journal for their sympathy, their cooperation, and their advice during the past
year. The loyal workers who have attended to the minor details of the paper are also in line for much
gratitude. Had it not been for the assistants, both seniors and underclassmen, this publication would have been a colossal failure
in more ways than one.

It might be well to mention the real value of occupying such a position as we have filled during the
past years. Three years and a half of work on a weekly paper calls for much time, it also calls
for some sacrifices,—but through it all we have felt that we have received far more than we have put into
the paper. It has been a pleasure to serve in this capacity and were we able to decipher the subtle
meaning of that hackneyed phrase “with mingled feelings of joy and sadness” we would like to use it to express
our feeling at this time. It is with genuine regret that we realize that this issue is the last to
be published under the supervision of the old administration—but “the old order changeth, yielding place to the new” and we
take this last opportunity of wishing them much success.

LE GRANDE FINALE

Today I bang out this column on a well-worn typewriter for the last time, a fact that will probably produce
great elation in some. Tomorrow “Ollapodrida,” “Out of Bounds,” and all of their sister efforts will be relegated to the
limbo of the forgotten. Save for the fact that the event is the forerunner of my departure from Davidson, I
would welcome it. Graduation being almost at hand, however, I find myself the victim of conflicting emotions. Certainly the four
years have been and probably will remain the happiest of my life. Freshmen may look upon that statement as a
lot of hooey, and Sophomores will probably side with them for once. Juniors might admit that it’s true. Nevertheless, now
that the end is approaching I can think of few occupations that would be more blissful, Utopian, and useless than
to remain here the rest of my days. Not that four years of it have been useless. Simply that any
extension of the time would be superfluous. Having lazy tendencies by nature I am inclined to weep. At the same
time, having hopes for the future I’m urged by the pleasure of the occasion to laugh. The resultant combination is
a dreamy melancholy. The taste isn’t bad but neither is it quite good.

Looking back over the four years I’m uncertain just what I have gotten out of college and also what I
have contributed to it, if any. Unfortunately, I came here from prep school with a good record behind me. In
keeping with all of the laws of human nature, I tried to sell myself to the school on that basis.
The effort lasted for one month and I’ve consumed most of the four years trying to live it down. During
that first month, I possessed myself of the idea that one must simply plant himself in one of the dormitories,
attend classes and at the end of the allotted four years find himself the finished product, ready to put the
world on a paying basis. Naturally enough I didn’t admit that such was my idea but looking back over the
interim with a broader perspective, the facts in the case are evident. And then fortunately a senior of that year
managed by two hours of rapid-fire oratory to impress the fact upon me that I wasn’t such a great man
after all. To this day he probably believes the effort was wasted for I am sure that I didn’t for
a moment let him know that he had even dented my conceit. I wonder how many other seniors have ever
made a similar attempt to bring freshmen into line? To all outward appearances, the results will be exceedingly disheartening. Still,
was there ever a man born who was willing to admit his deficiencies to other than himself? If he does
admit them, beware. The chances are fifty to one that he is fishing for compliments.

If you were to ask me just what a single day’s work in college has given me, I would no
doubt answer nothing. There is the book learning of course but there is little in that which the average man
will not learn sooner or later in the common walks of life regardless of the degree hung onto his name.
The reward is an almost indefinable something that the graduate feels but cannot place. Perhaps it is simply a bolster
to what he knows to be his talents. Every graduate doesn’t have the feeling either. It comes through the gradual
development of the reasoning powers and the development of an unconceited self-sufficiency. The most prominent students may never have it
while a nobody will assert his possession of it through success in after years. Now figure that out if you
can.
