, 4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
"The Livest Wire on the Hill"

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

10 Cents per Copy: $2.90 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received at unknown hours will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
W. P. CRAWFORD

Business Manager
W. P. CRAWFORD

EDITORIAL STAFF
N. R. BROWN - Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT - Managing Editor
J. B. MORTARITY - Managing Editor
C. R. WAKE - Athletic Editor
R. A. WEESON - Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE - Associate Editor
F. C. WITHERS - Associate Editor
T. JONG - Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH - Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY - Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY - Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON - Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL - Assistant Business Manager
T. T. GARRISON - Subscription Manager
B. K. L. - Circulation Manager
S. - Solicitor
W. P. - Solicitor
E. H. McCALL - Solicitor

Reporters’ Club
President
Secretary-Treasurer

W. McDERMID
W. L. B.
W. B. UREN
E. T. E.
F. D.
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. ATT.
R. F. JARRATT
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LONG
W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

AGAIN "THE SAHARA"?

The South has again been held up in ridicule before the entire nation as a result of the recent conflict on the Senate floor between Senators Heflin and Robinson. This statement holds true despite the supposed apology of Senator Heflin later in the week, coming at the end of a two and a half hour tirade against the Roman Catholic Church and all of its adherents. It was the conclusion of Senator Heflin’s first speech which aroused waves of indignation throughout the South, in which he challenged Senator Robinson to make the speech in Alabama which he had made in the Senate, asserting that he would be tarred and feathered if he did so. The citizens of Alabama and of the entire South were righteously indignant at such a speech and the Mayor of Montgomery immediately wired an invitation to Senator Robinson to make his speech there.

Editorials in various newspapers have denounced the attitude which Senator Heflin has taken. The editor of a leading Atlanta daily suggests that Senator Robinson make this speech not only in Alabama, but also in Georgia, Mississippi, the Carolinas—in order that it may be proved whether or not mob violence will overrule the statutes of the constitution. In this way it could be proven to the peoples of this country whether their present estimate of the South is correct, or whether they have been misled by the statements of one man whom they adjudge a leader.

It is interesting to note that in his apology Senator Heflin vehemently attacked the newspaper men, insisting that they should not have taken down “rash statements” made in “the heat of the moment.” But some of the more intelligent people are wondering if men elected to hold important positions in public offices should not have learned by now to control their fiery tempers. It is possible that Mr. Heflin understands that he was slightly exaggerating when he made the statement that the entire South was of that uncouth breed of which he is apparently the leader. It is rather encouraging to note that not all newspapers and not all people are of the mongrel breed which insists on taking the law into their own hands. So far it has not been noticed in our limited scope, that a single paper of any consequence has supported Senator Heflin in his statements. This might be taken as indicative of the fact that the eminent senator from Alabama would find out that the “tar and feathers” of the South belongs to an era long past.

One wonders a bit, in the light of this discussion, as to the sincerity of the men who are apparently extremely active in the formulation and enforcement of our constitutional government. Three years ago in an address here at Davidson, Mr. Heflin gave a description of the new South, the new opportunities opened in intellectual fields during the past decades,—the increased prosperity accompanying the broadened view—and named a few more achievements of the last few decades as the South has thrown off the mantle of bigotry and narrow-mindedness. From recent events, it seems that Senator Heflin was either slightly mistaken in the statements he made here, or that he prefers a more primitive mode of living than do the majority of people.

With the above in view, it is extremely important that the issue be proven one way or the other some time within the near future. This could be accomplished if Senator Robinson accepts the invitations of the editors of the Montgomery and Atlanta newspapers. We believe that the majority of people in this section of the country are of the same opinion as these editors, that the South no longer is bound by mob law and mob rule and that the South is ruled as sanely, wisely, and competently as the rest of the country. We believe that the vote of confidence given by the southern Democratic delegation is indicative of the real feelings of the people of the states which they represent.

Open Forum

TOO HASTY ACTION

At a recent after-chapel meeting of a body of men a most unprecedented action was taken. For the first time in its history, a society which has been active on the hill ever since the founding of Davidson College voted to disband, at least temporarily. This society was the Philanthropic Literary Society. That the literary societies do not hold the position on the hill which they once did is no subject for argument. It is a fact only too true. But that there is a place on the campus of a college for Liberal Arts such as Davidson for literary society work is also a fact.

In the first place the number of men trying out for places on intercollegiate debating teams proves the need of literary societies. Over twenty men participated in the recent varsity debating tryouts. No one would even consider the idea of having no more than one practice for an athletic team and yet approximately half of those trying out for debating were not taking active part in the literary societies. There can be no doubt of the fact that active society work gives splendid training for debating. Besides getting actual practice himself, one hears other debates and is able to see and improve himself by others' mistakes. In other lines besides debating the literary society work is of value and interest. At a recent meeting of the Eumanean Society there were four numbers on the program, no one of which was a debate. All the numbers were well presented and discussions were highly interesting. There were approximately thirty members present, every one of whom expressly said that he enjoyed the program immensely. It is our opinion that the same program presented before the entire student body would have met with general approval.

Then, if there is a need for literary society work, and that need was being supplied, though feebly, by the Philanthropic Society, why is it that this action of disbanding was taken? Last year the Phis had such a large attendance that the hall would not hold all the men and now within less than a year's time the interest has so dropped that the resolution to disband met with little or no opposition. Something is radically wrong and the evidence points toward the officers. Let us look into the matter more closely. During the past fall the president of the society has been absent from the weekly meetings approximately one-third of the time. Can any such lack of interest in the work on the part of the leading officer be otherwise than discouraging to the members? This in our opinion is the chief reason for the failure of the society to continue its existence. Four members of the Phi Society are varsity debaters. With this nucleus there is no reason why a live society cannot be created. That members will not be lacking if these men and the other capable officers which are among their number do their best seems to be shown by the numbers which attended last year. Why cannot these men get together and reconsider a perhaps too hasty action?

It does seem that some other system of torture could be devised to enable the professors to find out how little their pupils know. If it is in order, we would like to suggest exemptions for everyone from all exams, no reviews, no parallel, and a vacation from now until June. We don’t want this enforced merely in our own case, however!

Ollapodrida

Student minds are carefree once more and the majority will settle down for a month of ease until the first monthly tests rudely awaken them again. Each and every heart has been full of good resolves and aspirations as minds fumbled blindly for the facts during examinations. Those semi-annual ordeals should be the students' greatest incentive to consistent preparation but the lesson is not lasting. Most college students live only in the present and the world laughs atHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

While underclassmen toiled, seniors betook themselves to the far corners of the South for rest and recreation. Restlessness and loneliness followed many. The stimulus of group life deadens the appreciation of the normal course of events which time and a steady job can awaken.

Will Rogers, national clown, raced into the spotlight last week. Once a lowly vaudeville hoofer, he now finds himself the nation’s official jester. When good Democrats gathered at the Jackson Day dinner in Washington, Rogers entertained with wit. When Republican President Coolidge sallied forth to Cuba, Democrat Rogers was carried as the official rib tickler. When Lindbergh, aviator supreme, winged his way to Mexico, landlubber Rogers went down to prepare the way with Rogers' goodwill. Claremore, Okla., Democrats are proud of their famous clown. To show their native love, they last week presented him as a possible candidate for the presidency. At the mention of Rogers' name, the nation laughed without thought. Papers pronounced it ridiculous but gave the event ample comment. One New York paper thoughtfully considered and agreed with the others, but not without reason. Said they, however, “Rogers' witticisms are too true to be funny.”

Alienists and photographers are lining up their wares in Los Angeles as Hickman, kidnapper and murderer, goes to trial. Strange are the ways of justice and public opinion. The crime for which he is being tried occurred over a month ago. The trial will last another month, and then should conviction come, the execution will not take place for still another month. Should the murderer be allowed to live so much longer than his victim if capital punishment is in force? Michigan had a similar crime. They have no capital punishment, but the criminal was sentenced within a week after the crime was committed. Los Angeles is known to have the best police force in the world. Michigan has quick justice. We dare say that the latter state will suffer less crime than the former because of its particular superlative position.

Convention cities have been picked and presidential candidates are beginning to shout their wares. Prominent in the Democratic party is Governor Smith of New York. Among Republicans, Hoover reigns supreme should Coolidge refuse to be drafted, as he possibly may. Republicans will win. Some party leaders advocate a wet and dry issue. There will be no such issue. America is experiencing prosperity under the Republican regime, and that party will rule until prosperity fades into depression.

Republicans continue to hoodwink Mr. Average American with its Nicaraguan policy. Professedly, America is intervening there to restore an orderly government. Really, the government, controlled in large measure by Wall Street, is defending big business in that republic. Nicaraguans resent the monopoly of their natural resources by foreign capital and rightly so. Of course, they are not voicing their resentment in a reasonable way, but neither is the United States defending its interests reasonably. The United States should listen to what patriotic Nicaraguans have to say, and certainly, the natives should have some say as to who profits by the natural resources of their own country. War has never settled a political controversy fairly.

National interest rocked with glee last week as Andy Gump, most famous of all cartoon characters, awoke to find that his billion dollars were a myth. With the interest came increased royalties to Sidney Smith, originator of “The Gumps.” A leading American educator has said that Smith possesses the greatest power of simile of any mortal known. Smith has also been a force in shaping America’s opinions, as has De Beck with his Barney Google. Their satire is often pungent and produces a powerful effect.

America’s national pastime has become golf rather than baseball. The common herd has discovered that there is more sport in playing a game than in watching one. Watching a sport has always been simply a substitute satisfaction for man’s inherent sporting spirit. Now he has found the real thing. Ten years will see the collapse of huge baseball salaries and increased wealth to the proprietors of public links. Now that spring is in the air again, we will expect to see the ladies don their furs and warm wraps for the winter of '29.

---

A BIT OF THIS and THAT
By HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

A story of extraordinary courage has come out of Newark, N.J. during the past few days. It concerns William Connors, self-confessed tramp and a “bum,” who lived a life of carefree indifference and died with a smile on his lips and a laugh in his heart. He literally died inch by inch. A burly policeman picked him out of a gutter, dead-drunk, Christmas Eve, and hurried him off to jail, where he laughed with his cellmates and cajoled the turnkey. Prison doctors discovered that the “bum” had contracted frostbite during his drunken sleep in the ice-filled gutter, and they transferred him to the Newark City Hospital, where for thirty-five days he battled against a Grim Reaper who was demanding his toll inch by inch. He was still drunk when he was carried to the hospital. Doctors found him hilarious despite the deadly ravages of frostbite. They asked his name, and he laughed, “M’name’s William Connors, but the boys call me ‘Bill the Bum’—don’t see why you can’t call me that too, and m’age is 42, and I guess I’ve got no address in this town, ‘less it’s the gutter where the cop found me. M’occupation? Say, didn’t I just tell you I’m a bum—‘Bill the Bum,’ that’s me.” So they labeled him “Bill the Bum” on the hospital records, and they hung a chart bearing that title at the foot of his cot. He liked the idea. Doctors and nurses agreed that “Bill” was at once the most unusual and most cheerful patient they had ever attended. A few days and he was calling all the physicians and nurses by nicknames, and shouting greetings to other patients at the far ends of the ward. Gangrene set in and made it necessary to amputate his left arm. His right leg went next. Then regretfully and apologetically, the surgeons amputated his remaining arm. “Somehow,” wrote a Newark reporter, “he continued to live. More than that, he continued to wise-crack.” “Don’t worry, Doc,” he smiled. “When I get out o’ this joint, I’ll make a cleanup. Just give me a tin cup and I’m a rich man.” But smiles and the skill of surgeons were helpless against the gangrene infection. He grew weaker. Doctors put their heads together—and when they came out of a long conference, they told him they’d have to amputate his remaining limb—the left leg. Bill, wrapped in bandages and looking more like an Egyptian mummy than a living human, quickly gave them his O.K. The leg came off. The next morning, Bill was weak. He sensed the nearness of death but continued smiling, as if the Grim Reaper would be afraid to strike as long as he kept grinning and joking. A nurse offered to light a cigarette and hold it for him while he smoked. “Don’t bother, sister,” he said. “There’s going to be plenty of smoke where I’m going soon, and I won’t need those arms to get it, either.” He finished in uproarious laughter. “That’s a hot one. Slip it to the doctor, sister, and watch that baby grin, will ya?” he asked as he stopped laughing. The nurse tried to feign amusement, but there were tears in her eyes as she turned and walked quickly from his bed. A half hour later, “Bill the Bum” was dead. Moral? Say, does every story have to have a moral? Ain’t it enough to get a smile or a good cry out of life—without always asking for a moral? “Bill the Bum” had no moral by which he lived. If he had, he might’ve been a millionaire or a Congressman—but he was satisfied to live and smile, and death found him happy-hearted. And, of course, I don’t know, but I bet Bill would have voted for prohibition and against Al Smith if he’d been able to beat the frostbite. He laughed when they told him he was dying, but don’t you suppose his heart was sort of heavy as he thought of home and mother and boyhood, and of dreams that hadn’t come true; and don’t you reckon he sort of despised liquor, and the filth and poverty it had brought him? I do.

The Ku Klux say they are unmasking “of their own accord,” yet a little later they break down and confess that judicial bodies have been opposed to the mask and that they considered this point in their “action.”

Pamphlets from Northern corporations insist that the South is living in poverty, that the movement of various textile industries towards the South means nothing, and that they will soon return northward. Well, some people are born blind—others are that way for no reason at all.

A dissatisfied Italian tinkered with his airplane motor and cursed his luck for being forced out of the International speed tests. Last week he called together a committee and soared into the air. Round the course he whirred as electrical timing machinery clicked. In one minute he covered five miles. His average speed was 301.185 miles per hour, faster than any human had ever traveled in safety before. His record was authenticated. The masses considered such speed impracticable. There was a time when a railroad train was considered too dangerous when traveling at 25 miles an hour. The terrific wind it created would kill men and animals. Lack of invention only can check progress and then not for long.