THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1928

Hon. John J. Parker, Judge of Federal Court of Appeals, At Shearer Tonight

Continuing its program, the Vocational Guidance Institute will present this evening in Shearer Hall, Judge John J. Parker, who will speak on some phase of law. Judge Parker, who is judge of the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals, gained national publicity when, a few years ago, he won an important case in the United States Supreme Court over Judge John W. Davis, who was then the foremost attorney of the country. The members of the Vocational Guidance committee consider themselves very fortunate in having secured the services of the renowned barrister. The address will begin at 7:30 p.m., the particular branch of the subject to be chosen by the speaker himself.

Last night Mr. S. Clay Williams, a Davidson alumnus, and one of the most successful of her sons, delivered an interesting and helpful talk on the general subject of the law as a profession. Mr. Williams has made in the field of corporation law an enviable record, holding at present the position of chief attorney for the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, and also having been chosen as a vice-president of the corporation.

The principal speaker for next week is Dr. George Howard, the superintendent of the Rowan County school system. He will speak on the teaching profession Wednesday night in Shearer Hall. On Monday, March 19th, either Dr. Jarman, vice-president of Queens College, or Aris Cassel, principal of Gastonia High School, will speak, the other of the pair being booked for the following evening. The two educators will discuss the advantages and the disadvantages of their respective fields.

It is regretted that Judge Marion, who was scheduled to speak this week, was unable to be present, but it is hoped that his services can be secured for Thursday, March 22nd. Judge Marion is chief legal adviser for the Southern Power Company, and will discuss corporation law. Mr. P. W. Glidewell, of Reidsville, N. C., who was to have spoken last Tuesday night on criminal law and pleading before a jury, was called on an urgent business matter to Washington, D. C. However, the Vocational Guidance Institute is at present corresponding with him, in the hope that he may be able to talk Friday night, March 23rd. Mr. Glidewell’s address will conclude the program on law.

The last week of the general program of the institute will be given over to the subject of medicine. The main speaker of the week will be Dr. Davis, the new head of the Medical School at Duke University. He was formerly connected with Johns Hopkins.

Spanish Debate To Be Held In Future

Davidson students will be treated to a debate entirely in Spanish sometime the latter part of April, according to members of the Spanish Club, who, through Professor Crowe, have just about completed negotiations with the University of North Carolina. The question for discussion will be in regard to the intervention by force of arms of the United States in Nicaraguan territory, a query which was debated here recently by teams representing Davidson and the University of Florida. It is expected that the argument will draw a large crowd of hearers, since the number enrolled for the study of Spanish is this year exceptionally large. Preliminaries for the affair were held Tuesday night of this week. From those surviving the first tryouts, a two-man team, with an alternate, will be selected.

MONDAY March 19th. “Bringing Up Father” with J. Farrel McDonald and Vera Reynolds

TUESDAY March 20th. Marion Davies in “The Patsy”

WEDNESDAY March 21st. “The Smart Set,” with William Haines

THURSDAY March 22nd. Billie Dove in “The Heart of a Follies Girl”

FRIDAY March 23rd. Florence Vidor in “Doomsday”

SATURDAY March 24th. Fred Thompson in “Pioneer Scout”

Theatre

Beginners’ Golf Outfits. We offer a set of four Clubs and Canvas Bag for $8.50. We restring Tennis Racquets. Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The S&W Cafeterias are catering to you (ATLANTA Soon) CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharge over 1,000 gallons of water in 30 minutes, or about 35 gallons in 60 seconds. No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our SPRINKLER LEAKAGE POLICY. The cost is a trifle compared with the protection. INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY INSURANCE DEPARTMENT CHARLOTTE, N. C. McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr. — M. B. SPEIR, JR. (’26)

“Y” Column

Vespers this week will be under the leadership of a deputation from Columbia Seminary. This will be composed of Mac Richards, son of Dr. Richards, of the faculty, and “Parson” Burney. Both these men are graduates of Davidson. Richards was an O. D. K. man, an M. A. from Princeton, a Rhodes Scholar, and while he was still a student in Columbia Seminary, he was elected to the faculty of that school. A brilliant mind and a deep thinker. Burney, of the class of ’23, was also a prominent man while here. He was a very popular leader on the campus, and since graduating has taught at several places and is now at Columbia. These men will divide their time, one of them taking the Ministerial Band, and the other leading the Vespers. A great treat for the student body. Shearer, at 6:15 Sunday evening.

The Vocational Guidance this week will be on the topic of educational work and activity. On Monday night, Dr. Jarman, vice-president of Queens College, will speak on the subject of college professorships and things along that line. Tuesday night, Dr. Geo. Howard, head of the Department of Education of Rowan County, will speak on the subject of educational calling. Wednesday night, Mr. J. Eris Cassels, principal of the Gastonia High School, will speak on the topic of high school work and its problems. These men are ably fitted to give excellent advice on their subjects and will be worth the time you give them.

VARIED ATTRACTIONS (Continued from page 1)

The usual publication of “Sanity Rare” has been abandoned, but there will be a special issue of The Davidsonian made up by the class of ’29. Raymond Lake has been appointed as editor of this issue and it will feature all the events of the 28th and 29th. Nelson Myers, as treasurer of the class, is chairman of the finance committee, and has secured a performance to be staged in Shearer Hall, Saturday night. This is to be in the form of a play or minstrel show. Erwin Setzer, who conducted the American Legion Show, “The Jollies of 1928,” in Charlotte, has been secured as director of the Junior Minstrel. Mr. Setzer has met with quite a bit of success in his shows and the “Jollies” in Charlotte was obliged to be repeated on account of its popularity. The actors in the minstrel are to be chosen from the Junior class as far as possible, but it is expected that talented members of the three remaining classes will be called in to assist. Plans are being made to have the jazz orchestra to help out in the musical line.Number of attractions to aid in the financing. He has secured for next Saturday, March 17th, an entertainment by the Converse Glee Club. Bill Powers is chairman of the committee for “Other Entertainment,” and has planned a couple of interesting events which have not been announced at this date.

OIL MAN ADDRESSES
(Continued from page 1)

As a good citizen one is sure to be interested in the prevention of frauds and failures,” he stated. “The education of investors is the surest safeguard for their savings, and to this public-spirited movement I have dedicated my oil year book and my lectures on the petroleum industry.”

MYERS—CHEER LEADER
(Continued from page 1)

Grady, who is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, and Myers, of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, have both shown, throughout the year, themselves as being very promising men for the position for which they were in competition. The new cheer leader, whose duties for the remainder of this year will consist largely in assisting and training those of the Sophomore class turning out at the beginning of the baseball season, to try out for that position, should very well be able to step into the shoes of Spike McGee, who has so ably filled the office for the past year.

Much praise is due “Spike,” who, in addition to carrying through the office of cheer leader, has found time to be the manager of the Student Store for the succeeding year, as well as to be “Slave Driver” for the past two years, in the erecting and the dismantling of the wooden bleachers on the athletic field. In addition, it may be safely said that “Spike” is the first of the cheer leaders to have succeeded in securing the services of two wildcats as mascots, at the same time.

GLEE CLUB IN CHARLOTTE
(Continued from page 1)

with a long article telling of the success of the club on their Southern trip. The singers have afforded quite a bit of publicity this year and have had a comparatively successful year. Their performance at the Carolina is a new phase in the Glee Club work here at Davidson.

Greta Garbo in the “Divine Woman” appeared with the club in their play. This picture was shown in Davidson some time ago and it gave the main actor another of her pleasing roles. She has played in many noted pictures, the most important of which are “Flesh and the Devil” and “Love.” Miss Garbo has placed herself among the foremost actresses of the screen.

DAVIDSON DELEGATES
(Continued from page 1)

All of these lectures showed what progress has been made toward the relations of different nations to each other, and the bringing about of a feeling in favor of peace and sentiment of difficulties that arise between nations rather than resort to arms.

OLD RED SIDES

Aye, tear its weathered body down,
Long has it loomed on high,
And many a foot has itched to climb
That master of the sky.

Beneath it rang the soph-day shout,
And bloody war galore;
The despot of the campus air,
Shall sweep the clouds no more.

Its sides once decked with triumph’s score,
Were oft admired below,
As victors sang their paean song,
And freely paint did flow.

No more shall daring freshmen climb,
To raise the sophomores’ ire;
For jealous foes have snatched the prize,
Unheeding vengeance dire!!!

No more shall pale, poetic youth,
With lines of love in hand,
Recline upon its moon-lit peak,
His verses there to scan.

Oh, better that her shattered hulk
Fall hurtling to the ground
Than that she be so harshly stripped,
By those whose hammers sound.

C. M. P. and F. D. M.

NEW FOR SPRING—Suits tailored to meet the College man’s taste—designed by College men—When in Charlotte we ask that you see these Suits. They’ll be the kind you like and priced at unusually low prices.

BELK BROTHERS CO.
Where College Men Trade

Senator Reed To Talk To University Students

Chapel Hill, N. C.—Senator James A. Reed, of Missouri, a leading democrat in national circles, will speak here on the afternoon of March 27th, in response to an invitation from The Tar Heel, it was officially confirmed by the senator yesterday. The subject of his talk has not yet been announced, but as a presidential possibility he is expected to present some phase of the democratic party and its platform this year. Walter Murphey, of Salisbury, a close personal friend of Reed, was instrumental in getting the speaker to accept the local invitation. Mr. Murphey, who is an alumnus of the University, will be present at the time of the address.

Senator Reed has been prominent in the politics of the nation, being identified particularly with several Senate investigations. He is now being mentioned as a likely presidential candidate for the democratic party. The invitation of the senator here is one of the moves made by the Tar Heel to increase the interest of students in national politics. Other speakers are being invited, Senator Theodore E. Burton being especially urged to appear for the republicans.

An enterprise of note throughout the state is the all-North Carolina straw vote which is to be held in April. The editors of publications in the various schools will conduct the elections for their respective campuses. Already the suggestion of a poll has met with the approval of editors thus far consulted at State College, Duke University and N. C. C. W. Several names will be presented by each party in this state-wide poll. The present list includes for the democrats: Senators Reed and Walsh, Governors Ritchie, Donahey and Smith; and for the republicans, Lowden, Hoover, Dawes, Willis and Curtis.

Senator Reed’s address on March 27th will be discussed in Memorial Hall at 3:00 in the afternoon, it was announced. All students are invited to attend, while a number of out-of-town visitors are expected to be attracted by the prominence of the speaker.

Rifle Team Match Northern Schools

Last week the Davidson rifle team fired against three teams, the University of Vermont, the University of West Virginia, and the Connecticut Agricultural and Mechanical College. The scores have already been mailed into headquarters. This week the team will fire against the North Dakota State College and Virginia Military Institute. On Wednesday night the five high scorers of the squad made a trip to Gastonia to contest with the Gastonia rifle team. Next week the five men having the highest scores for the season will fire for the William Randolph Hearst Trophy. This contest will close the season for the ’27-’28 riflemen. It is reported that the Davidson team placed ninth in the co-area match.

You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

For Heating and Plumbing Contractor of Rare Excellence See Elliott & Byers Phone 78-W