Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN November 22, 1928.

The Other Colleges

A. T. O. Going to China

Eugene, Ore., Nov. 21—(IP)—FOR SALE—Fraternity house, fair shape. Are all moving to China. Apply Alpha Tau Omega.

If Alpha Tau Omega, University of Oregon chapter, accepted an invitation offered them by a former Chinese cook, now in
the Orient, they could run the above classified ad in the university paper. Several years ago Hong Chung cooked for
the boys. He cooked Chinese meals twice a week. On those days the campus declared an unofficial holiday and swarmed
to the A. T. O. house for dinner, oftentimes crowding the worthy brothers off the table.

Chung went home to his mother country some years ago and established a tailor shop in Hong Kong. He still
remembered the fraternity boys and the other day he wrote them a letter inviting a wholesale visit to China. Here
is the letter, written in a readable English hand:

“A. T. O., Eugene, Oreg.

“Dear Sir: I have the pleasure of forwarding you these few lines asking you to keep your health in good
order and condition. If you have any holiday, please come to Hong Kong see me, according to attached label and
undoubtedly you will meet me by the time I may accompany with you to Canton to see our Chinese ancient
five-story pagodas, etc., etc., of which to your entire interest. As I have established a tailor shop in Mongkok, my
business seemed all right. Hoping that you will come to see me without fail.

HONG CHUNG.”

P. S.—I think you are getting all right and soon to be a millionaire.

The A. T. O.’s have not decided to emigrate as yet, but they are interested in the postscript from their
old cook.

Why to Princeton?

Princeton, N. J., Nov. 21—(IP)—Considerable amusement has been furnished the Princeton University campus by the publication by the Princetonian of
a list of answers to the question asked of all entering students: “Why did you come to Princeton?” Here are
a few of the answers:

Father and brother Princeton men, Princeton spirit, tradition and reputation.
Thought more college life could be found here.
Because my father wanted me to go to Yale. I didn’t know the place then.
To graduate.
Advantages of country life can never be overstressed.
Because I like the atmosphere of beautiful buildings and gentlemen.
Because of the name it gives one to be a Princeton man.
Good looking campus, faculty and president.
For social reasons.

Anything Within Reason

Ithaca, N. Y., Nov. 21—(IP)—A “gentleman’s agreement” has been entered into by Cornell University men and the manager of the
Strand Theater here, whereby the students may have all the fun they like at the second Saturday night show, providing
they behave themselves the rest of the week while attending the theater.

The pact was sealed following a disturbance in the theater created recently by the students, and after which the manager
in strong words told the undergraduates where to “head in.” One of the students wrote the following letter to the
Cornell Daily Sun:

“The Saturday night show at the Strand was the scene of one of the most malignant and spiteful attacks ever
directed at the Cornell student body. During a performance for which a monopoly price of 50 cents was extracted, a
sensitive New York cowboy from Wyoming objected to the good-natured remarks of disapproval spontaneously emitted by the audience. Despite the
natural and inalienable right of a non-gratuitous audience to manifest its disapproval of fifth-rate ‘entertainment’ by hissing and groaning, a
choleric manager lost his head and gave vent to some bar-room language.

“I for one object to having Cornell students designated as ‘dirty rats’ and ‘scum of the earth,’ and I feel
I am not alone in my resentment. Cornell deserves an immediate public apology.”

Commenting on the letter, the editor of the Sun said in part:

“Our correspondent is a member of the 17th-century philosophical school that believed in ‘natural and inalienable’ rights. There is, however,
no exercise of these alleged ‘rights,’ no booing or hissing at University functions or dramatic club performances. Does our correspondent
assume the right to cast off his painful gentlemanly manner as soon as he goes downtown?”

In an interview with a Sun reporter, Mr. Will Dillon, the manager in question, promised:

“I am giving the students the freedom of the theater for the second performance of each Saturday night show... I
wish to emphasize, however, that in return the students must agree to confine all boisterousness strictly to that performance on
that day, and our gentleman's agreement will be carefully observed.

“I'll give them an arena for the Strand ‘Weekly Whoopee’,” Dillon added. “Anything within reason and anything good-natured will be
permitted.”

MISS BLAINE SPEAKS TO VOLUNTEER BAND

Speaking to a joint meeting of the Ministerial Band and the Student Volunteer Group, on Sunday afternoon, Miss Margaret Blaine,
of Statesville, a former missionary in China and until recently the traveling secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement, brought a
message on the “dynamic of discontent” and showed why every missionary and minister should have this quality.

In the opening part of her talk, Miss Blaine said that her position as traveling secretary had given her an
unusual opportunity to gain an insight into student thinking of the present day, especially in regard to the missionary movements.
The observations that she made, continued Miss Blaine, were both encouraging and discouraging. However, she wished to bring to her
audience a message not so much from her own work but from the recent book, “Seeking the Mind of Christ,”
by Dr. Robert E. Speer.

Dr. Speer in his book says that we live far within the realm of our personality and it is a
psychological fact that we use comparatively little of our latent powers. The element which should dominate all of us is
the “dynamic of discontent.” By this is meant the power to make people discontented with bad conditions and then to
help them better these conditions. We should not only make other people that way but should have the “dynamic force”
in ourselves.

With this statement of Dr. Speer’s as a keynote, Miss Blaine made a most interesting speech and concluded by saying
that there is only one source of content to be found in the world, and this is Jesus Christ, and
if we are to show this contentment to others we must first know it ourselves. We should be sure that
our light shines in the “darksome places” and it should be the ambition of all religious workers to bring everybody
to the light that is in Jesus.

College bred is the flower of youth leavened with Dad's dough.
—July Review.

Stationery plated and embossed
Best Quality and Prices
ANY TYPE OF PRINTING
Aubrey Brown
Representing
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

STATISTICAL REVIEW

Harvard University’s receipts from football in 1927 amounted to more than a million dollars, of which nearly $300,000 was spent
on various intercollegiate teams, traveling expenses, coaches, rubbers, trainers, doctors, uniforms and supplies. In the same year, according to a
report to the National Collegiate Association by Prof. Thomas E. French, of Ohio State University, Ohio spent $13,000 for intramural
athletics and $127,017 for a $1,600,000 stadium. And this proportionate expenditure is by no means unusual, says John R. Tunis,
in the current Harper’s Magazine out today.

“During the same year Stanford University’s athletic receipts were $194,000, and after paying for a football stadium, a basketball stadium,
team expenses and equipment, it spent the generous sum of $7,500 on intramural sport,” he states. “When a college spends
$74,000 for coaches, $5,000 for rubbers, and $6,000 for medical service in one short season of two months, it might
appear that intramural athletics would be likely to receive less than their share from the remainder. Strong and powerful as
is the great god Football, signs are not wanting to show that American college undergraduates are beginning to doubt its
divinity.

“Intense class feeling began to die out years ago. Classes today are far too large in the great universities to
permit of much class feeling or class loyalty being shown. The feeling so ground in many of the large educational
institutions throughout the country.”

Seventeen per cent of the men and twenty-eight per cent of...The woman at the University of Chicago attended no football
games during a recent season, according to the 1927 report of the faculty-student committee on the distribution of students’ time,
to which Mr. Tunis refers. “If so many students had been absent from a football game 20 years ago, the
situation would have called for a football revival meeting.

“To the sports follower, football is more than merely a game, it is a religion. It might almost be called
our national religion. Dean Willard Sperry, of the Harvard Theological School, said that the only true religious spirit to be
discerned among large bodies of undergraduates today is in the football stadium. So fundamental is the craving of man for
ritual in one form or another, one college president said, that when churches do away with ritual, it springs up
in other and most unlikely places. Ritual has so pervaded football that it is fixed and standardized from Maine to
California.

“There are almost as many football officials as players upon the field, and they are handpicked for each game by
a High Commissioner who receives a salary of ten thousand dollars for the job; a job which does not appear
to be working out very well. Last season, more than three thousand dollars was spent for spies to watch the
officials and report upon their fairness, and there is talk of spies being set to watch the spies at an
additional cost of three thousand dollars.

“Colleges are waking up to realize that what they have on their hands is a first-class octopus which is strangling
many legitimate pursuits of the educational institution. In most American colleges, there are two factions: football and anti-football. The football
faction is well organized, powerful, articulate, embracing most of the students, the athletic directors, their staffs, many of the influential
graduates and members of the board of trustees, and occasionally even the president himself. There is no denying the fact
that a winning football eleven is a great help to the president of every college. After winning, everybody is in
such good humor that things run smoothly and quietly among students and professors.

“The anti-football faction is smaller, less powerful, vastly less noisy but nevertheless growing rapidly. Some of them would like to
do away with football entirely. Although it has been powerless to act effectively so far, one president told me that
many thinking graduates, undergraduates, members of the faculty, and college presidents would be happy if football could be abolished without
upsetting the athletic systems of the colleges generally.”

SECRETARY VISITS (Continued from page 1)

He also discussed any other matters which were in connection with the “Y” work. Mr. Loomis was especially interested in
the chapel situation here at Davidson, and highly commended the attitude toward church attendance. The deputations which the “Y” has
been sending out to various surrounding districts were praised for the good work which they have been doing and were
urged to keep up the practice. He was a great help to the men responsible for this phase of the
work in making suggestions and outlining programs. Mr. Loomis came to us from the University of Tennessee, at Knoxville, Tenn.,
and plans to visit Duke, Carolina, and other schools and colleges in this district where they have an active Y.
M. C. A.

Cars Taboo
Austin, Tex., Nov. 21—(AP)—Students are not allowed to take their autos into the University of Texas campus. B. B. Neans,
gatekeeper at the south gate, says that for four years the students have not invented a new excuse for taking
their cars into the grounds. He says that sickness and injuries head the list of excuses, while urgent calls to
see the president, or one of the deans, are next in line.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Wildcat Belts
W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

A good shoe to ask for by name—MONTROSS
There is style in the prices, too!
No longer need the well-shod man pay the price of out-of-date production methods. Inefficiency is outmoded. Modern methods enable John
Wards to lead in quality, in style, yet sell for dollars less! Buy your next pair here—at seven and nine
dollars!

John Ward’s Shoes INCORPORATED — REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
Stores in New York - Brooklyn - Newark and Philadelphia

“BILL” BAILEY & DEAN RUSK
On display By 208’ Watts

House Party at ‘Y’ During Homecoming
Perhaps one of the biggest and most enjoyable events on the social calendar for the past weekend, held in connection
with the annual Homecoming Day celebration, was the house party given by the Y. M. C. A. at the “Y”
rooms for the students and their guests of the week. The rooms were attractively decorated with yellow chrysanthemums as the
outstanding feature, before a background of ferns and ivy. This pleasing scheme was worked out under the able supervision of
Mrs. W. J. Martin, assisted by Frank Hally, Buck Johnston, Frank West, and Bob Norton.

Immediately after the completion of the Stunt Night performance, an informal reception, which was the main feature of the program,
was held. This reception was largely attended by both members of the student body and their out-of-town visitors, among whom
were numbered both parents and many charming young ladies. In addition to these, the faculty was represented by Captain and
Mrs. Otto, Dr. and Mrs. Lingle. Mrs. Melton, mother of the “Y” president, was also present. Misses Sue and Cara
Lina Moffett officiated at the punch bowl, where delicious punch and cake were served to the guests. After the reception,
many of those present lingered for a brief period to partake still further of the hospitality of the “Y” in
a pleasant informal gathering. The “Y” reception has come to be a fixed part of the Homecoming Day program and
one to which the students look forward with a great deal of pleasure.

R.O.T.C. INNOVATES NEW POINT SYSTEM
On Wednesday, November 14, the first place in the afternoon parade was won by the second platoon of Company C.
The second platoon of Company B took second place, and the third platoon of Company B received the third award.
The third platoon of Company A was given the first place in the parade which was held on the morning
of Homecoming Day. The third platoon of Company B was second, and the second platoon of Company D was judged
third best.

The R. O. T. C. Department has recently adopted the plan of grading each platoon by the number of places
that they win at the parades. By this system, it will be easy to tell which company platoon is best.
At the present time, Company B is leading with seven points; Company C and Company D are tied for second
place with four points each, and Company A is third with three points. The standing of the platoons is as
follows: The second platoon of Company B is first with four points; the third platoon of Company A, the third
platoon of Company B, the second platoon of Company C, and the third platoon of Company D each have three
points, and the third platoon of Company C and the second platoon of Company D are tied for second place
with one point apiece.

TRIOLET: THE INTRUDER
I had a thought—
It frightened me,
I had not sought
To have the thought
My mind was caught
In laxity,
I had a thought—
It frightened me!
—Temple News.

What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?
ANSWER NO. 1
The spirit of God does not operate by rote. Each man’s call is individual, and may have many elements, or
only one. There could not be a more compelling element in your call than the love in your heart for
Jesus Christ. “Lovest thou me? Feed my sheep.” Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a happy and achieving
life; perhaps we could help you.

Union Theological Seminary

Davidson Theatre
Monday, Nov. 26
“Sal of Singapore” with PHYLLIS HAVER
Tuesday, Nov. 27
“Gang War”
Wednesday, Nov. 28
“Single Man” with LEW CODY and AILEEN PRINGLE
Thursday, Nov. 29
“The Crash” with MILTON SILLS
Friday, Nov. 30
“Manhattan Cocktail” with ALL STAR CAST
Saturday, Dec. 1
JACK HOLT in “A Zane Grey Story”
