2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1928

Sport Talk - News and Views of Wildcat Events
By Raymond Lake

The Wildcats have started off their baseball season with a bang. They downed the strong Oak Ridge team last Friday
by the score of 10 to 5, and showed good form all through the game. With the exception of a
few errors made at one point during the game, the team played unusually well for this early in the season
and raised the Wildcat stock quite a bit. The team seemed to have its batting eye in fine shape. They
slugged out several long hits and did considerably better in this aspect of the game than their opponents, and probably
considerably better than the majority of the spectators were expecting them to do. Johnson, the star outfielder for the Wildcats,
was probably the heaviest hitter of the day. Littlejohn also had his eye on the ball and succeeded in knocking
out a three-bagger during the course of the game.

The Wildcats used three hurlers against the Cadets, but McInnis was easily the star of the game. Meadows started the
game, but the visitors soon learned to hit his balls fairly accurately, and he was called out and replaced by
McInnis. This moundman slowed down the Cadet stock immediately and held them to three runs for several innings, they having
made two in the first inning. Toward the last of the game McInnis was relieved by Henderson, who kept up
the good work started by the second pitcher.

The State High School track meet last Saturday was quite a success in point of numbers as well as in
point of the impression made on the high school visitors by the home of the Wildcat. Several of the contestants
were heard to express a very favorable opinion of Davidson and a desire to matriculate here in the next year
or so. This annual meet not only furnishes a convenient location for the high school stars to meet each other,
but also is quite an advertisement for Davidson. As was said of the annual Athletic Night in this column two
weeks ago, the annual track meet is just one more accomplishment of Coaches Monk and Tex.

The Freshman nine continues to improve. During the past week several more of their candidates have shown up well, and
the team seems to be getting along much better together. Coach Monk Younger is quoted as having said that the
team looks better than any other Freshman team at this time of the year since he has been here. Of
course, there have been no unusually good teams in the last few years, but both of the coaches seem to
be well pleased with the candidates, and the outlook for the team is bright.

Wildkitten Trackmen to Present Splendid Team
Dash Men and Jumpers Show Up Well

The “Wildkittens’” first track meet of the season will be held tomorrow afternoon at 3:30 o'clock, on Richardson Field. Their
opponents come from Charlotte High. It is interesting to remember that Charlotte High School has won the All-State High School
track meet for the past three years. Charlotte made her poorest showing of the three meets last Saturday, at which
time she defeated her nearest rival by a margin of 12 points. From this data, we can easily gather some
idea of the strength of Charlotte High as compared with the other leading high schools of the state.

Some of the Freshmen have been showing up especially well in the various events this spring, according to Coach Tilson.
Neal, the leading contender in all three of the dashes, has shown exceptional speed and ability and bids fair to
become another Goodykoontz. Pushing him close for second place are Glenn and Dan Goodykoontz. McCall has also shown up well
in the dashes. In the 220-yard low hurdles, Denis promises great things for the team. George is “going good” in
second place. Cable shows up well in the javelin throw, having won that event last year in the State High
School meet. In all probability, Fraley and Overman will throw the discus as they have shown themselves easily superior to
all other contenders in this event. Although the line-up has not yet been definitely announced, these men have shown themselves
consistently good, so we have every reason to be optimistic in our views as regards the forthcoming meet.

This week has a fairly heavy schedule on in the way of athletic events. The first track meet of the
year, with State, here, and the second baseball game of the year, with Elon, will furnish quite a bit of
entertainment for the sport fans. Both these events promise to be close and well worth seeing. State seems to have
quite a good track team this year, and the Elon baseball team always is to be considered as a strong
opponent. The latter is reported to have two of the best pitchers in the state this year and this makes
their threat doubly strong.

CLOTHES HATS SWEATERS EVENING
March 30 and 31
AND SHOES TIES DRESS
Showing at Miss Minnie’s
James S. Branch, Rep.
SUITS AND TOPCOATS FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS
TAILORED TO MEASURE
THE CAPS HOSIERY ACCESSORIES
Friday and Saturday

Wildcat Hitters Enable Red and Black to Take First Game With Cadets.
McInnis Saves Game by Sterling Relief Work
TEAM HITS WELL
Batting Rally in Fifth Sews Game up for Cats—Three Hurlers Used

Monk Younger and Captain Johnnie Ditin got their heads together last Friday afternoon and decided that these Oak Ridge Cadets
who for so many seasons have thrown terror into the camp of the Scotch Wildcat should be tamed once and
for all. As a result of this deep and earnest conference, some splendid relief pitching by a young Sophomore, pitching
his first varsity game, and some timely and determined swatting by the ’Cat batsmen, the Red and Black tucked away
a decisive victory over these Cadets and opened the current season in fine style. The score was 10-5, far more
than most of the optimistic fans had hoped for, and the rumor is now current that the 1928 edition of
the Wildcat baseball team will go a long way in the state race this spring. True, Joe Meadows got off
to a bad start and was unable to hold the slugging Cadets in check, the visitors ramming out three hits
and pushing over two runs before the ’Cats could settle down, but Younger, quick to sense the critical moment, rushed
McInnis tothe hillock, and this Sophomore not only stemmed the tide, but turned the game into a 'Cat victory by
his masterly twirling. The Cadets never really threatened after McInnis' advent. Meanwhile, Johnson and Harrison were getting busy with the
willow, and aided by their teammates, drove Wilson, the starting hurler for the visitors, to the showers in the fifth
stanza. Five tallies came over in this canto, sewing the game up for good. The most gratifying thing about this
game was the improved fielding of the Red and Black men. The infield gives promise of being much better than
last year's inner garden, and the outfield needs no comment. Just how good these 'Cats are going to be will
be decided in the game with the Elon Christians here next Thursday afternoon. As usual, the Christians are strong, boasting
two of the state's best pitchers. A win over these invaders will mean a great deal to Monk and his
men. The box score and summary:

OAK RIDGE AB R H PO A
Mason, cf 3 0 0 3 0
Goodson, 2b 2 1 2 3 2
Pierce, ss 4 2 2 4 0
Durham, lb 5 1 1 5 1
Faulkner, lf 4 0 1 2 0
Beaver, rf 3 0 0 0 0
Howard, 3b 3 0 1 2 4
Hayworth, c 4 0 0 5 1
Wilson, p 2 0 0 0 2
Hoggard, p 2 0 0 0 0
Umstead, p 1 0 0 0 0
TOTALS 32 5 6 24 8

DAVIDSON AB R H PO A
Harrison, 2b 4 1 2 2 1
Ratchford, cf 4 0 1 1 0
Dulin, 3b 4 1 1 0 2
Crawford, 1b 4 1 1 9 0
Johnson, cf 5 1 3 4 0
Kugler, rf-ss 4 2 1 1 0
Littlejohn, ss 3 1 1 4 1
McConnell, rf 2 0 0 1 0
McAulay, c 3 2 1 5 3
Patterson, p 0 0 0 0 0
McInnis, p 2 1 0 1 2
TOTALS 35 10 11 27 9

Score by innings: R H E
Oak Ridge 200 003 000— 5 6 2
Davidson 310 051 00x—10 11 3

Summary—Errors: Goodson 2, Littlejohn 2, Kugler 1; three-base hit: Crawford; two-base hits: Pierce, Harrison, McAulay, Littlejohn; sacrifice hits: Beaver, McInnis;
stolen base: Pierce, Harrison; hits off Wilson: 10 with 9 runs in 4 2-3 innings, off Hoggard, 1 with 2
runs in 3 1-3 innings, off Meadows: 3 with 2 runs in 2-3 inning, off McInnis, 3 with 3 runs
in 8 innings, off Henderson, 0 with 0 runs in 1-3 inning; base on balls: off Wilson 5, off Hoggard
2, off Meadows 1, off McInnis 2; struck out: by Wilson 3, by Hoggard 2, by McInnis 9; hit by
pitched ball: by Wilson (McInnis); wild pitch: McInnis; passed balls: McAulay, Hayworth; left on base: Oak Ridge 4, Davidson 9;
losing pitcher: Wilson; winning pitcher: McInnis; umpire: Brandon; time: 2:10.

Southern Colleges Meet Golfers Soon

Golf at Davidson will this spring take on more business-like proportions, and a team will be placed in the field
that is expected to rank high in collegiate circles of the South. Mills, Wilson, and Martin are back from last
year's team, and Lingle and Pepper are fighting hard for positions on the first string squad. These men are playing
an elimination series at the present time to determine which of them shall play in the coming meet with Washington
and Lee University, at Charlotte, on April 4th. Four men will play on a team. The twosome matches will be
played in the forenoon and will be for 18 holes. The afternoons will be taken up with the foursomes, also
for 18 holes. Besides the W. and L. meet, contracts have been signed for meets with Carolina, on April 12th,
either at Chapel Hill or at Greensboro. Carolina will again be met on April 23rd, either at Charlotte or at
Davidson. Duke University will be met at the Sedgefield Country Club, at Greensboro, on April 13th, and on April 14th
the team will enter the state intercollegiate meet, also to be held at the Sedgefield Club. Members of the Big
Five will be represented in this tournament and it is strictly a collegiate affair. With this pretentious schedule ahead of
them, the golf team must work hard, but it is believed that the material is at hand and that a
good season is in the offing for Davidson golfers.

Norris Trophy Awarded to Leading Athlete Soon

Famous Cup Presented to Best Athlete at Commencement

This year, as formerly, the Norris Candy Company, of Atlanta, Ga., will present its trophy cup to the best all-round
athlete in Davidson College. The awarding of the Norris cup is undoubtedly one of the outstanding events of the entire
college year, and the man who wins this coveted honor has attained a high place in the athletic halls of
Davidson for time immemorial. The best athlete is selected during the spring elections by a student body vote, and the
presentation of the trophy occurs during the commencement exercises of the college. Student interest reaches a high pitch during the
selection of the honor athlete, and for a time each spring this subject holds the center of all attention in
campus "bull sessions" and drug store sport dope. It is thought that this year, the "D" Club, an association of
letter men, will nominate four men for the consideration of the student body. Hitherto the election has been of an
absolutely open nature, the candidates receiving their nominations at the hands of the student body. It is safe to say
that the presentation of the Norris trophy cup has done a great deal to create a fine spirit of athletic
competition on the Davidson campus. Men are stimulated to friendly competition of the highest order, and the cup has become
a most coveted honor. The winning of the cup means not only that the winner is an outstanding athlete, but
that he is a Davidson gentleman of the very highest type. The student body vote seldom fails to reach the
right man. Earnest Bohannon won the cup last year.

Sir Gallahad Mounts the Pedestal

--and Sir Gallahad, attired in appropriate garments, mounted the pedestal and participated to the extent of his knightly qualifications. Twice
he strove; yea, even thrice; but alas he was disqualified; for in those days REIS JIMPANTS and JIMSHIRTS were unknown,
and inferior equipment was a handicap. The young man of today demands fashionable equipment, and youth will be served. We
have a complete assortment from which you may make your selection; plaids, stripes, and checks in pleasing color combinations with
shirts to match. Supply yourself with this comfortable underwear at popular prices.

The Students Store
"IT'S YOURS; WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?"
