THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1928

WEATHER REPORT
For Davidson and vicinity: Clouds of approaching exams to relieve sudden and intense dry spell.

Largest Circulation of any Morning or Afternoon Paper in Davidson.

CIRCULATION REPORT
Gleaned by the Campus Wit

“Our Chinese laundryman has named his son after Lindbergh.”
“What’s that, Charlie Fly?”
“No. One Long Hop.”
—Notre Dame Juggler.

When it comes to “getting your number” the laundry queens win the diamond-studded cement mixer.

“Don’t the football men ever have their uniforms cleaned?”
“Yes, what do you think the scrub team is for?”

“Business is fine,” said the scissors grinder, “I never saw things so dull.”

Junior: “Look at the Freshman, wrapped in thought.”
Soph: “He’s bound to be chilly with such thin wrappings.”

Miller—“Friend, how are you?”
Friend—“O. K. How are you?”
Miller—“D. K. Thanks.”

“How do you make your hash?” 
Boarder: “We don’t make it, it accumulates.”

Voice from Car: “It’s all right, officer; I’m a chiropractor.”
—Ohio State Sun Dial.

Son: “What is the greatest power known to man?”
Father: “Woman’s tears.”

Maggie—“Wonder if Jake will love me when I am old.”
Kate—“You can soon find out.”

One sheik didn’t like his sweetie’s apartments so he left her flat.

“My, my,” said the gas as it puffed through the muffler. “How exhausting this is.”

It takes a marriage license to get married on but an automobile license to get a date on.

Job had trials but he never had to pay the last seven installments on the auto that tied with the locomotive in the race to the crossing.

Virtue pays! The “S” is crooked but look what the straight and narrow path does for it. “$.”

Off for Europe. Deck games—dancing in the moonlight—big Fourth of July celebration in London—beach parties galore at Ostend—then Brussels, and at last, Paris! The entire trip costs only $375 which includes everything. Reservations may still be available if you write or wire immediately.

Sailing Over the Bounding Main—Virginia, the university, and ten other big features in the brilliant June issue of College Humor, 1050 N. LaSalle St.

Six days on the Atlantic.

Students Transmit Messages by Radio.
Radio Sardis as Newest Means for Securing Dates

Tickety-tick, ticky-tick-tickety, NU4DB on the air! Calling 4CF. 4CF? Good! Say, bud, how about ’phoning over to Anderson College and telling the girl friend I’ll be down ’bout 7:30 Sunday? I’ll stand by. So it’s okay with her? Fine; thanks. 4DB signing off.

These physics “studes” sure have some snappy service when it comes to dating up for the week-end. Yes, their amateur transmitter hooks up with N. C. C. W., and...All they have to do to talk to their sister (?) at Agnes Scott is to signal a Georgia Tech amateur and he phones out to Decatur immediately. Sid McCarty, Red Hayes, Bob Stephenson, and Instructor H. Hewell Roseberry are among the fellows who make connection with the world on the air. If you are a real good friend of one of them and have a real good friend among the fair students of N.C.C.W., Agnes Scott, or Anderson College, you might be able to persuade them to persuade the girl to give you a date.

These fellows have done some fine work with their station this year. They have constructed it at a very low cost and it is no inferior instrument. They talk to all those foreign amateurs: Australia, England, France, Germany. Every day or so a card drops into their box saying NU4DB was coming in fine. They have carried on a two-way talk with stations in 40 states. The other night they got tangled up with a Frenchman. They couldn’t talk French and he couldn’t talk English, but that didn't keep them from getting acquainted. They used the internationally known “Q” signals. Each one of these signals begins with a “Q” and when followed by different letters has different meanings, such as “Who are you?” and “What is your address?”

Sid McCarty, the chief operator of the local transmitter, recently journeyed to Atlanta, where he took a commercial examination, and he is now a licensed operator and is looking forward to getting a job on a boat this summer.

A Pessimist: The guy who wears suspenders and a belt.
An Optimist: The fellow whose name begins with an A who expects to go through college without sitting on the front row.
A Monopolist: The guy who gets both armrests at the show.

Eternal Youth?
My grandad, raising Duroc hogs,
Said, “Things are going to the dogs;”
His grandad in his house of logs,
Said, “Things are going to the dogs;”
His grandad in his English bogs,
Said, “Things are going to the dogs;”
His grandad in his old skin togs,
Said, “Things are going to the dogs;”
But here and now I wish to state
Those dogs have had a good long wait.
—The International Student.

Have you seen it? Our new home, of course! We invite you to come in and let us show you how well equipped we are to ably take care of all your Banking, Trust, and Insurance needs.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
McALISTER CARSON (’13)
M. B. SPEIR, JR. (’26)

The Final Experiment in “Smokology”
Take a test tube, beaker, bunsen burner, and waste-basket... throw the first three into the last... light a Camel... pull in a cloud of fragrant joy—and note that cool content! Here and now, we'll bet a two-tailed jabberwocky you can’t match that for real smoking pleasure! And, your quest for the best cigarette is ended.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N.C.