THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1928

Track Team To Enter Intercollegiate Meet

The State Intercollegiate Track Meet will be held this year on the fourth and fifth of May in Greensboro. To
this track meet are invited teams from all the colleges in North Carolina. Last year Davidson sent a track team
up to this meet and came within an ace of carrying off the honors. Currie easily won the hundred and
the two-twenty yard dashes, setting new state records in each case. The hundred was run in the phenomenal time of
nine and six-tenths seconds, just one-tenth of a point slower than the world’s record in this event. The relay team,
composed of Currie, Pinkney, Melton, and Kell, easily won the mile relay and were presented with a statue of a
relay runner as a trophy.

This year, with Currie back and Whittle from last year's freshman team in good shape, the Davidson team should take
first and second places in both the hundred and the 220. In the hurdles, Brown and Whittle are in rare
form and should both win points. Bailey and Smith are doing well in the pole vault, and Leftwich is throwing
the shot further than he has ever done before. The half-mile relay team can be counted on to push somebody
hard for first place in that event, with Whittle, Currie, Flynn, and Kell running on it.

The track team this year has several exceptionally good sprinters and runners, and it is not in that phase of
the meet, but rather in the field events that the team is weakest. With the other teams of the state
splitting up on the events, and the Davidson team securing points in the hurdles, the hundred, the 220, and the
440, the Wildcats have a very good chance to win the meet. And the men on the team realize this
and are putting forth every effort to improve the team before the meet comes off.

SCABBARD AND BLADE EXTEND FORMAL BIDS

At the afternoon drill last Wednesday, April 18th, public recognition was made of the 13 cadets receiving bids from the
local Scabbard and Blade fraternity. At this time a review was given in their honor. The pledged cadets, three of
whom were Seniors, have previously been announced. The national fraternity of Scabbard and Blade will hold its sixteenth annual convention.

Collegiate Meet

Wingate Defeated By Davidson Freshmen

After struggling fifteen innings Tuesday, April 17, only to end up in a 2-2 tie, the Davidson Wildkittens hit their
stride and defeated Wingate in the second game which was played at Davidson on Friday, April 20th. Both teams were
in fine shape and played a very fast game. The Kittens couldn’t get right at first and it wasn't until
the lucky seventh when “Pat” McCallum drove a hot liner through the second-baseman scoring the two men that were on
the bases that things brightened up for the Freshmen. They brought in another run before the inning closed and the
game was apparently sewed up. The Wingate team played nice ball but was unable to put up with the fight
that the Kittens gave them. Marks and Gibson each obtained a three-base hit off of Efird. Thompson pitched a fine
game for the Kittens and his mates gave him their best support. He struck out seven men and allowed only
eight hits. McCallum led the Freshmen at the bat and is entitled to the batting honors of the game. Efird
was on the mound for the opponents and allowed only five hits.hits. The game was very close with a few
spectacular plays. Score by innings: R.H. E. Wingate 100 000—1 8 2 Davidson Fresh 000 000 300—3 5 1

Box score—Davidson vs. Wingate.

Howard Arbuckle, cadet major of the local battalion, will represent “B” Company, Fifth Regiment, at the station of “M” Company,
First Regiment, at Ohio State University, on April 26th, 27th, and 28th. Charles C.

HOME CAFE
Opposite Hotel Concord
THE PLACE TO EAT

Have you seen it?
McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mgr.
What? Our new home, of course! We invite you to come in and let us show you how well equipped
we are to ably take care of all your Banking, Trust, and Insurance needs.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
M. B. SPEIR, JR. (’26)
CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

Take Her Out If You Want Your Frat Pin Back
A Bag o’ Lance’s Salted Peanuts
Lance Packing Co., Inc.
Charlotte, N. C.

WINGATE AB R H PO A E
Stubbs, 2b 4 0 0 0 3 0
Munn, cf 4 0 2 4 1 0
Efird, p 4 0 2 4 1 0
Ingle, ss 4 0 1 0 1 0
Burris, 3b 4 0 0 4 0 0
Cashwell, lf 4 0 3 0 0 0
Goddy, 1b 4 0 1 12 0 0
Desire, rf 3 0 0 4 2 2
Nance, c 3 0 0 0 4 0

Davidson To Meet Lenoir-Rhyne Nine
The Davidson nine is scheduled to play the Lenoir-Rhyne baseball team at Hickory, tomorrow. This marks one of the most
important epochs of the season. Both teams are evenly matched and the honor for highest score is an object for
close contention. Last year the Wildcats shut the Mountain Bears out with a score of 11-3, and so far this
season have shown up well in their encounters. The Hickory team bowed before Elon nine, last Thursday, April 19, to
the echo of the same score, 11 to 3. Elon also subdued Davidson in the 1928 engagement. The probable line-up
for the Mountain Bears will be as follows: Hager, Frik, Lentz, Hodge, Coulter, Miller, Winecoff, Kiser, Rumple, Maples, Smyre. The
Wildcat nine will consist of: Harrison, Ratchford, Johnson, Dulin, McConnell, MacCauly, Crawford, Kugler. Kugler will pitch.

Sherril White Shoe Company
Exclusive Agents for BOSTONIAN SHOES FOR MEN
$6.95, $8.50 the Pair
Statesville, N. C.

GIBSON’S, Inc.
“ON THE SQUARE”
Representing Nunnally’s, Hollingsworth’s, and Russell McPhail’s Candies
(VISIT OUR FOUNTAIN)

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
When your mind balks at “figurin’”— If yours is a mind easily confused by interstellar distances, infinity of space, light-years,
weighty statistics — forget the ponderable fact that Camels lead today by billions. Just light 'em... smoke 'em... revel in
their fragrance. Watch your barometer swing to “fair and cooler”—and let your smoke-sense tell the tale of Camel supremacy!
©1928
