THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1928

Juniors Complete Third Successful College Year

Inasmuch as a more lengthy and possibly more involved history of this class is to appear in the 1928 volume of “Quips and Cranks,” very little may be said here other than the quotation of a few statistics. Much was expected from this class from the day of its entrance, due to the fact that in that year was innovated the selective draft system of choosing freshmen. The result is that the class contains more honor-roll men than any other in the history of the college. In addition, it is indisputable that it contains also more campus leaders than has any other. During the freshman year, the athletic teams were not quite up to standard, but our athletes have developed; at the present time, we see no reason to criticize their efforts.

A few highlights are as follows:
Six men made honor roll during freshman year; eight during sophomore year. The first two years are the hardest. Junior and Senior electives will bring the number of honor men far ahead of any previous record set.
First class to have the entire debating team and alternate from among its members.
First class to have fresh banquet. Quite a memorable affair (as any Junior can tell you), with many exciting events both on and off the schedule. Still highly recommended as a day-time topic during Junior Speaking.
Large percentages of Glee Club and orchestra from ’29. A member of this class has been leader of the jazz orchestra for three years.
Four letter men in football; four in baseball; four in wrestling; two in basketball; one in tennis; three in track.
The change in the old order of Junior Speaking is an outstanding example of the progressive spirit of '29. In the past, there was an enormous expenditure of money and time. Disadvantages were numerous—everyone complained, but nobody took action; class after class followed a custom that was out of date. This year ’29 departs from the beaten track and adopts a policy that is superior.

Brown McQueen, Historian.

More Junior Talent

Winter, grown weary of his gloomy sway,
Draws up his ermine garment of the snow
And slowly moves his cheerless court away,
The woods and fields rejoice to see him go.
The feathered wanderers are winging back
From silver strands laved by a sapphire sea,
Northward, along the spacious ether track
They come to welcome Spring with minstrelsy.
Among the grass the timid violets hide,
Among the budding trees, the dogwoods sway,
Soft, snowy foam afloat an emerald tide
Where butterflies as flying fishes play.
A brook is gurgling in the mossy glade
And Spring herself is laughing in the shade.
Is it Spring I see, or a white-clothed tree
In the ferny glen?
Does she rise as a nymph from the crystal lymph
To smile at men?
May she laugh in the gleam of the hurrying stream,
In diaphanous robes that are spun from a dream?
'Tis no tree—'tis a maiden with shy brown eyes
Beaming laughter and joy at my surprise.
It is Spring! It is Spring! Hear her sing:
Hey! Hey! Come away
Sing and play
Blithe and gay
In the leafy spray
Where crocuses stand on tiptoe to kiss the lips of May!
O Spring, I come to mingle in thy song,
To lose myself within thy verdant walls,
To shed mortality and sense among
Thy bowers, and melt me in their dew that falls,
Dissolve me in the odor of the rose,
Cleave my laborious human chrysalis
Gossamer winged to fly far from the woes
Of human kind, and all that is amiss.
Haste, Spring to fan me with thine odorous breath,
My fevered brow is yearning for its balm;
Kiss my tired eyes to lulling sleep or death,
Oh, bathe me in thy sweet Lethian calm
Let me forget earth’s discord and alarms,
Hedged in the warm contentment of thine arms.
As at rest I dream in the aureate beam
Of thy pleasant sun
May the placid stream of the hour seem
To be never done
Let me ever lie neath thine azure sky
And talk to the white clouds floating by
And sweet Spring, loving Spring
Hear thee sing:
Hey! Hey! Come away

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see M. P. Crawford
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

The Commercial National Bank
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of Government.
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-PresidentUnited States Make us your Executor. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00. OFFICERS PULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier Founded 1874 I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier; M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

Minstrel To Be Put On By Junior Class Talent

Continuing the Junior Week Program, the Junior class is presenting in Shearer Hall this evening a Junior Minstrel. Regular practices have been held for the past two weeks and a catchy program is forecast. The production of the minstrel is under the direction of Mr. Ervin Setzer of Charlotte. Mr. Setzer has shown his unusual talent and coaching ability along theatrical lines by the management of several productions in Charlotte, among which was “The Jollies of 1928,” the well-known success of which was manifested by its whole-hearted reception by the public. Mr. Setzer is widely known not only in North Carolina but throughout the eastern part of the United States. He has been at the head of several productions for the Central High School students in the recent past. A feature of the program is an overture and finale composed and set to music by Mr. Setzer. These consist of solos and medley work. Assisting those in the minstrel is a chorus of voices from the glee club and student body. A number of popular selections are interspersed throughout the program to lend variety and chic. J. R. Covington, chairman of the Junior Minstrel Committee, is in charge of the program. The personnel of the cast are: End men, R. Horton and R. O. Flynn, Jr.; McConnell, W. M. Regen, L. D. Kirkland, S. L. Black, D. F. Cannon, and H. A. Knox, R. R. Kane, interlocutor, and J. G. Johnson, accompanist.

Soph Day Characterized By Entertaining Program

Soph Day was welcomed to Davidson on Saturday, April 21st, by the whole Freshman class in appropriate costume for the occasion. Upon rising, each Freshman was compelled to don an outfit consisting of two dissimilar shoes and socks, a military blouse buttoned in the back, and a headpiece made of a handkerchief with a freshman cap perched upon it. To make the costume complete, two books were carried in a pillow slip suspended from a stick over the shoulder. To facilitate their movements, it was thought that the freshmen should skip wherever they were. This they did with apparent delight. From 9 to 1 o'clock, from the tops of the porticos of the several dormitories, freshmen in the roles of Mohammedan muezzins did not call the faithful to prayer, but instead called out the exact minute of time, adding the worshipful phrase of “Glory to the sophomores, hallelujah!” Upon the completion of the announcement, the freshman who had just uttered it would be soused with several gallons of water coming from an upstairs window. This would be continued until the freshman’s period of calling was over and another had taken his place who underwent the same experience. It was thought by some that a more appropriate phrase for the freshmen to have called would have been, “Glory to the sophomores, Niagara!”

As part of the celebration, the Freshmen staged a circus at the track meet Saturday afternoon which met with great success. The show was complete in every respect, having every kind of freak from the ringmaster to the wild man in a cage, who unfortunately broke loose in front of the terrified spectators. After the exhibition of the strong man, the bearded lady, the snake charmer, and other highly interesting people, the show was concluded with a marvelous high diving act, in which the agile performer hit in the jumping pit without visible injury. Immediately after the track meet, a tug of war between chosen sides of freshmen was held. The side which lost had to collect wood for the bonfire that night, the celebration around which was to be the culmination of the activities of the day. The ceremonies which were held on the Freshman field Saturday night consisted of talks, one by Carl Pritchett, past president of the Sophomore class, in which he said that the sophomores appreciated the spirit which the freshmen had taken in regard to Soph Day and reminded the freshmen that they would soon be sophomores. Dean Rusk, past president of the Freshman class, then responded. In conclusion, the freshmen burned their caps, some rather regretfully, and then all sang “O Davidson.”

Getting the Right One

We ARE speaking of Girls and Tuxedos. That abstract something which makes Braet Tuxedos what they are, can best be expressed by the company in which they are always seen. That they are reasonably priced should further them in your favor. The New Prom Tux $40 formal accessories too.