TDA VIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 22, 1928 No. 24

Bob Kell Elected President of Student Body

—o—

BROWN IS EDITOR OF DAVIDSONIAN FOR COMING YEAR

Newspaper Honor Given to Texas Boy as Result of Student Body Voting

Pritchett, Moriarity, and Lake Nominated for Office in Reward for Services

LAKE SECOND

New Editor Enters Upon Duties April 19

Aubrey N. Brown, Jr., of Mineral Wells, Texas, was elected to the editorship of The Davidsonian, the weekly newspaper of
the college, when the final ballot was run last Saturday, defeating Raymond Lake in the final reckoning. Election to the
editorship of The Davidsonian, considered one of the highest honors on the local campus, carries with it a large degree
of prominence and prestige.

In the two ballots cast last Friday and Saturday, Brown defeated W. K. Pritchett, John B. Moriarty, and Raymond Lake,
all of whom received nominations to the executive office in reward of their meritorious service for The Davidsonian during the
three years they have been in college. Raymond Lake, of Greenville, Miss., member of Phi Gamma Delta, and athletic editor
of the paper for the past year, was second in the race for the highest office. W. K. Pritchett, of
Atlanta, Ga., a high honor student of the Junior class, and debater of repute, was one of the three managing
editors. John B. Moriarty, Ripley, Tenn., Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, also a high honor student of the class, was
the third managing editor.

(Continued on page 8)

Chorus, Hundreds Charmed by Converse Girls

Converse Glee Club made its annual appearance at Davidson on last Saturday night under the auspices of the Junior class,
rendering a varied program to an audience that almost filled Shearer and one that was made up chiefly of the
students, their guests, and a few townspeople. The club is always well received and this year was no exception. Very
much fretted over and billed as “The Glorification of the Southern Girl and Forty of the Fairest,” the Converse Glee
Club held reception committees and expectant individuals waiting for more than three hours only, after hope was beginning to ebb,
to show up. Hurriedly dressing, the members began their program that a patient audience had waited over an hour for.
The manager of the club explained the late arrival in terms of car trouble and bad highways.

The program was divided into two parts, the first being the classical. This part of the program consisted of selections
of the chorus ensemble, chorus with sub-parts, solos, violin solos, and three selections by the director of the club which
were well received. Miss Kirby, on the violin, offered two delightful numbers. The second part presented the most varied part
of the program and consisted of everything from an Oriental dance to a real comical skit. Costumes of mixed colors
and amusing designs added color and pep to this second part that the former lacked, and it was perhaps the
most entertaining of the two types of entertainment offered. The following is the program rendered: Part I—Now, E’en Now (Bellini);
Whither (Coen)?; Tally-Ho! (Leoni); Ya!

(Continued on page 8)

Pritchett and Grady Return From Debate Tour of North

With a verdict of two defeats and one no-decision contest, W. K. Pritchett and R. C. Grady, returned Saturday from
the Northern debating trip after having competed with Hampden-Sidney, George Washington, and University of Pittsburgh.

The first debate of the trip was held in the chapel of Hampden-Sidney College, on Tuesday night. Winston Block and
David Keese, of Hampden-Sidney, upheld the affirmative side of the query, Resolved, That the United States should cease to protect
by force of arms capital invested in foreign lands except after formal declaration of war. After a very close contest,
Hampden-Sidney was awarded the decision of the judges by a vote of two to one.

Moving on northward, our debating team next engaged the team of George Washington University on the following night. Here the
query read: Resolved, That the United States should cease to protect by force of arms capital invested in foreign lands.
D. L. Hatch and Karl Frisbie upheld the affirmative side of this question. No decision was given.

After traveling all day Thursday, Pritchett and Grady tackled the Panthers of Pittsburgh in Ambridge, Pennsylvania, near the home lair.
The University, represented by John Philips and Robert Young, upheld the affirmative of the same query used at

(Continued on page 8)

Five Are Chosen In Fresh Oratoricals

The preliminary Freshman oratorical contest was held in Shearer Hall on Friday night, March 9th, with eight Freshmen competing for
the honors. The contest this year was the first of its kind to be held at Davidson, as those in
previous years have been strictly declamations. The men chosen to speak in the finals to be held either the last
of May or the first of April are: P. W. Glidewell, J. C. Matthews, Bob Overman, Bill Rembert, and J.
H. Dennis, alternate.

The Freshman contest in past years has been in the form of a declamation and the winner given a medal
during the commencement program. Plans thus far are to award some recognition but not necessarily at the close of the
school year. Henry Powell formulated the idea of having the Freshman oratorical and followed his plan through by taking charge
of it. Keen interest was shown by the contestants as well as a number of students and townspeople. The speeches
as presented were of a rather high order and well delivered. A number of the talks were on well thought
out subjects and P. W. Glidewell was permitted by the contestants to give a declamation, as his

(Continued on page 8)

Local R.O.T.C. Unit to be Inspected April 4th by High Army Officials

Lieut-Col. Merriam and Major McCaughey, Staff Officers, to Inspect Southern Units

HERE WEDNESDAY

Inclement Weather Retards Progress of a Battalion Drill

On Wednesday, April 4th, Lieut. Col. Henry C. Merriam and Maj. W. J. McCaughey, staff officers from the War Department,
will arrive at Davidson for the annual R. O. T. C. honor school inspection. These officers will make a thorough
inspection of the R. O. T. C. unit here and Davidson’s remaining an honor military unit depends upon their report.

Colonel Merriam and Major McCaughey will arrive in Charlotte early Wednesday morning and will be driven to the campus by
Capt. R. D. Daugherty, commandant of the Davidson unit. Classroom work will be inspected during the first three periods Wednesday
morning. This inspection will cover a section in each of the four classes. Regular classroom work will go on under
the eyes of the inspecting officers. At the fifth period, regular military drill period, the battalion will be formed on
the road and marched to the Freshman field as usual. A calisthenics drill will be put on under the command
of Cadet Major H. B. Arbuckle. Immediately following will come

(Continued on page 8)

Impressive Message is Given by Mac Richards Y Vespers

“Men of Davidson College! What standard of value do you bear?” was the stir-Ring interrogation of Mac Richards before the
students at Vespers last Sunday evening. His very impressive talk was centered about “Two Standards of Value,” one of which
must be borne by every man. A goodly number were present to hear Richards speak, and to hear Mrs. Cullum
sing a solo, entitled, “God Is Love,” accompanied on the piano by Miss Hattie Thompson. “Take heed, and beware of
covetousness: for a man’s life consisteth not in the abundance of things which he possesseth,” from Luke 12:15, formed the
central theme of the speaker’s message. The first of the two standards set forth was that of “The Rich Man,
Dives.” This rich man was probably in good standing with the Jewish Religious leaders, and he bore the standard of
luxury and ease. He was a man of success in the eyes of the world, but sadly deficient in terms
of spiritual success. He, in his prosperity, did not think of the service that he might render to mankind with
his riches, but planned how he could accumulate even greater riches and revel in their luxury. The speaker pointed out
the fact that we of today, amid our prosperity and wonders of science, are prone to forget God and the
source of our good things. He urged those.

Henry Powell Wins Oratorical Tryout

Speaking on preventing war through the World Court, thereby preventing the United States using force of arms in protection of
property abroad, Henry Powell, president of the Forensic Council and also chief executive of the state forensic organization, won the
local tryouts for the Statewide Peace Oratorical contest here recently. This contest will be held at Elon in the near
future. Its object is to stimulate thought on war and peace. There is a large cash reward offered to the
winner of the state contest. Three men participated in the trial: F. Dewolfe Miller and Reid Graham were the other
two contestants. Graham’s plan for war prevention was by a referendum of the whole people before or when war is
declared. Miller, who is alternate to Powell, advanced the plan of removing the causes of war by giving the public
a full knowledge of the horrors of war and by removing prejudice and misunderstanding. The three plans, World Court, Referendum,
and Removing of the Causes practically cover the field of war prevention methods. Although only three men entered the contest,
those present expressed their approval of the high level of the speeches. The judges were Dr. Lingle, Dr. Vowles, Professor
Lilly, Professor Moore, and Professor Grow. This is the second oratorical try-out to be held this year. Allan Frew was
selected in the first contest to represent Davidson in a state-wide meet on the Constitution of the United States to
be held here. These contests, together with the ambitious program (Continued on page 8) stimulate.

Highest Stenbe: Offered Davidson Men is Won by Mississippi Student

Pritchett and Brohard Are Chosen as New Vice-Presidents for Coming Year—Covington Sec.-Treas.

New Student Officers Are All Outstanding Men

Bob Kell was elected president of the student body on the second ballot in the second student body election of
the year. There were four men nominated for the office of student body president by the nominating committee of the
Student Council; none were nominated from the floor. Of these four, two were dropped after the first ballot, and the
second and last ballot was run between John Melton and Bob Kell, with Kell as winner. The other two men
nominated for the office were “Mac” King and Nelson Myers. The final ballot for the presidency was one of the
closest that has been held for years. In the elections for vice-president four men were nominated from the rising Junior
class; these four were Carl Pritchett, Tom Brohard, “Doc” Henderson, and Allan Frew. On the first ballot Pritchett was elected
as the first vice-president, none of the others receiving sufficient votes to be elected to the second vice-presidency, so the
second ballot was cast between Tom Brohard and “Doc” Henderson, the next two highest to Pritchett. In this election Tom
Brohard was elected the second vice-president of the student body. Three men were nominated by the nominating committee of the
Student Council (Continued on page 8).

“Industry Secret of Success In Law,” Says Mr. S. Williams

Phi Beta Kappa To Initiate Neophytes

Phi Beta Kappa will not hold a public initiation this spring, but the candidates recently bid will receive their charge
and membership proper at a meeting to be held on May 25th, the week preceding the commencement exercises. It has
been the custom of Phi Beta Kappa in the past to hold only one public initiation each year, this coming
in the fall. At this time both students and alumni are taken into the order. In the spring only students
are bid. Four men received the coveted bids last week: C. F. McRae, W. B. Bradford, J. M. Akers, and
J. P. McKnight. It is one of Davidson’s greatest honors to receive an invitation to join Phi Beta Kappa, and
this bid is significant of consistently good work. Phi Beta Kappa was established nearly 200 years ago at old William
and Mary College. Ever since its founding, every college man of high ambition along scholastic lines has cherished a secret
hope of joining the ranks of the chosen few, and so it is entirely fitting that this scholastic order should
occupy the high place which it does in nearly every school. “The secret of getting along in the profession of
law is more a matter of industry and plenty of hard work than anything else.” Thus spoke Mr. S. Clay
Williams, chief attorney for the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, last Wednesday night, in Shearer Hall. Mr. Williams’ subject was
“Law in General.” Mr. Williams began his address by urging all young men to look upon law as a possible
profession. “Law to the young lawyer is no more than a bread and meat proposition at the very first. But
your life in whatever field you choose is only a bread and meat proposition at first, because of pride alone,
if not financially,” he said. “The young lawyer starts out at a very bare place in the financial scale of
life; but he has youth and equipment. To go with this youth and equipment, though, he must have tireless energy
in order to apply these other assets to his advantage. There is no doubt that the average person can make
the bread and meat proposition of law and can then rise higher and higher in it if he works hard
enough. He stated that many people have the idea that, if there is an old lawyer in the community, a
young lawyer has no chance. “This idea is false,” he stated. “The mere fact that there is an old lawyer
there means that there is work for the young one. The old lawyer is always busy weeding out work.” (Continued
on page 8)
