MEN are not judged by their intentions, but by the results of their actions. —Earl of Chesterfield.

THE DAVIDSONIAN | FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

HOME-COMING D. C. vs. N. C. BIG WHOOPEE!

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 15, 1928 No. 9

GLEE CLUB GIVES MUSICAL PROGRAM IN STUDIO OF WBT
Concert Sponsored by Athletic Association During Annual D.C. A. A. Hour
CURRIE GIVES TALK
Greetings Sent to All Alumni Listening in and to Others on Air at Time

The Glee Club will make its first formal appearance at this time. On Tuesday night, November 13th, the Glee Club broadcasted from WBT, at Charlotte, for the annual D.C. A. A. hour, which was given by Dr. J. P. Munroe. The program began at 8:00 o'clock with the singing of “College Ties” by the Glee Club. Following this, Professor Currie gave a five-minute talk, greeting all Davidson Alumni who were “listening in” and very effectively acquainting others of his audience with some of Davidson's ideals and aims.

The remainder of the program was given over to the Glee Club, which showed up well indeed in this its first public performance of the year. The Glee Club program was as follows:
Annie Laurie—Chorus.
Instrumental Trio.
Give a Man a Horse He Can Ride—Chorus.
Saxophone Solo—A. J. Thompson.
Serenade—Charles and Robert Orr.
Sylvia—Chorus.
Winter Song—Chorus.
Jazz Orchestra.
O! Davidson—Orchestra and Chorus.

Le Cercle Francais Extends Fall Bids
Fourteen Men Taken Into French Society

La Cercle Francais at a recent meeting elected to membership 14 students and one faculty member. La Cercle Francais has been rather inactive for a short while, but in taking in these new members it is making an attempt to revive. Of the 14 men taken in, two were juniors, and four were sophomores. The faculty member invited to join was Prof. A. V. Goldiere. The students are F. R. Brown, R. M. Christian, J. E. Gardner, A. N. Halverstadt, M. T. Gilmour, R. Johnson, M. J. Kennedy, M. E. Love, I. Marsh, D. K. Miller, J. F. Preston, W. C. Ragin, D. D. Rusk, and S. S. Wiley. Proficiency and interest in the French language and literature constitute the qualifications for eligibility for membership in La Cercle Francais. The badge indicating pledgeship is a small bow of the French tri-color. The initiation of these new men will be held at an early date.

Dr. Cumming Editor Of Old Manuscript
“Revelation of St. Birgitta” a Critical Study

Dr. W. P. Cumming is the author of a book to be published soon, concerning the discovery of an old manuscript and a copy of this manuscript. The book will be a critical study of the manuscript and also the story itself. The title of the book is “The Revelations of St. Birgitta,” and it is to be published by the Oxford University Press. It was first published during the fifteenth century by an early English text society. The manuscript is owned by Robt. Garrick, head of a large corporation, who is also a bibliophile of note. St. Birgitta was one of the famous saints of the Middle Ages, one of the few feminine saints that attained much popularity. Her native land is Sweden. “The Revelations of St. Birgitta” is a discovery of note. It is a fine manuscript and a copy of this manuscript.

Football Schedule, ’29
In 1929 the Wildcat football team will tackle one of the hardest schedules ever attempted by a Davidson team. For the first time in Davidson football history the team will play the Army. This game is scheduled to be played at West Point. The schedule for 1929 is:
Sept. 21—Open.
Sept. 28—Clemson at Charlotte.
Oct. 5—Wofford at Spartanburg.
Oct. 12—Army at West Point.
Oct. 19—Citadel at Davidson.
Oct. 26—Wake Forest at Charlotte.
Nov. 2—V. M. I. at Davidson.
Nov. 9—N. C. State at Charlotte.
Nov. 16—North Carolina (Pending).
Thanksgiving—Duke at Davidson.

Prof. Fleagle Gives Talk at “Y” Vespers
Head of Spanish Department Delivers Interesting Address

“Loneliness, fear of the future, and possibility of failure are the three things dreaded by the average man,” declared Prof. F. K. Fleagle, head of the Spanish Department of Davidson College, at “Y” vespers Sunday evening. Matthew 28:20, “Lo, I am with you always even unto the end of the world,” formed the scriptural basis for the speaker’s message, which was concerned with ways of meeting man’s three great fears. Christ as a loving Companion, a Guide, or a Helper, is fitted to be present as a consolation in all situations, regardless of time or place.

The dread of being alone is not confined to the human being, as the comparative psychologists have found various evidence of the gregarious instinct in the lower animals. Man's loneliness may be caused by physical isolation from friends as in a strange city, by an eccentricity of temperament which makes him incapable of sharing his interests and feelings with his associates, and finally because of some high office which tends to prevent friendships with those of lesser rank. To offset the dangers of loneliness, every normal being desires friends who will be true in times of crisis and who will love us in all the commonplace experiences of life. Moreover, this friendship is one in which each member is drawn by the personality of the other rather than by any base motives of material advancement. Finally, we are all looking for friends as nearly perfect as possible, for it pains us to find a flaw in a dear companion. Jesus Christ, who touched human life at all points, is our Perfect Friend, and it is to Him that we must go for our deepest friendship.

The dread of not knowing what lies in the future, as it must have been experienced by Columbus and Lindbergh, assails each of us regardless of education in the events of the past. Knowledge of this type cannot give us a hint as to what lies ahead.

PLANS FOR STUNT NIGHT COMPLETED
Varied Program Planned for Visitors and Student Body

Plans for the annual Stunt Night are rapidly taking on a more definite form. This performance will take place at 7:30 o'clock on Saturday night, November 17th, at Shearer Hall. It will last but two hours, but will be run off in a snappy manner. According to reports, the Stunt Night of this year will be better than that of last year. The tickets went on sale Wednesday, and their sale indicated that a large crowd will be present. The program will be as follows:
Part 1
1. Concert Orchestra.
2. Freshman Stunt.
3. Solo—K. B. Peterson.
4. Junior Stunt.
Part 2
1. Jazz Orchestra.
2. Quartet.
3. Sophomore Stunt.
4. Violin Duet.
5. Senior Stunt.

Homecoming Party To Be Held By “Y”
House Party For Non-Fraternity Men Promises Entertainment

On this week-end the Y. M. C. A. is holding a house-party for those boys who are not fraternity men, and want to invite girls up. It will be held in the two reception rooms of the Y. The girls will be housed in several homes in town. Craige Frye and Mac King are in charge of placing them. They have sent out slips for those to sign who are inviting girls, but as yet do not know how many will be on hand. With the game against Carolina on that day, and the Stunt Night program that night, there promises to be plenty of entertainment on the campus this week end.

Home-Coming Senior Class Names Various Committees
Frank Hall Elected Class Poet by Vote of Class

Committees for various duties were appointed by the president, M. T. Gilmour, last week. These committees are to solve the major problems which are confronting the class of '29 and are appointed at this time so as to have ample time to function. Frank Hall, a prominent member of the Senior class, was elected as class poet by vote of the class. Hall has already displayed his ability by his work appearing in various publications. The Class Gift Committee, as appointed by the president, consists of Gardner Greene, chairman; Tom Hill, Fred Ratchford, Don Martin, Bill Bailey, Glenn Calhoun and Bob Gray. It will begin at once to solve the problem of a class gift to the school. The Commencement Speakers and Program Committee is composed of Bill Hill, chairman; Sam Brown, Frank Hall, Harry Knox, Frank Davidson, Dick Flinn and J. H. Meadows. This committee is confronted by one of the hardest problems of a Senior class, that of choosing speakers for the Commencement exercises and planning a program for that time. The committee for the class stunt for Homecoming Day includes Browne McQueen, chairman; W. B. McQueen, R. B. Erckman, W. A. Armfield, I. C. Griffin, Jack Causey and Charlie Creech. It was decided, at a recent meeting of this group, that the Glee Club should have a major part in the Stunt Night program. The Senior Emblem Committee, which was appointed at a previous meeting, and is composed of Jack Causey, chairman; Reid Graham, Chatham Clark, Kenneth Maddox and Frank Cannon, decided on blazers of Oxford gray trimmed in blue as this year’s class distinction. They have been ordered through the Students’ Store and should arrive within the next few days.

R.O.T.C. Parade
At the parade on last Wednesday afternoon, November 7, the following platoons were given the first three places: The third platoon of Company D was given the first place, for having the best line. The second place was given to the second platoon of Company B. The third platoon of Company C took third place.

Day To Be Gala Event On Campus
Exercises to Start at 11:15 and Continue Until After “Stunt Night”

Homecoming Day, with the Carolina-Davidson football game as the main center of attraction, will be a more colorful affair this year than ever before. Alumni from 11 different states have already signified their intentions of being in Davidson this Saturday. The R. O. T. C. parade will open the homecoming festivities at 11:15 a. m. Saturday, and entertainment will be furnished from then until the close of the Stunt Night program. The annual parade of the military unit has been worked out to the minutest detail by Lieutenant-Colonel Scott, commander of the post. His time has been limited to a half hour and he will show in this time the development of the unit since the beginning of school. The parade will take place on Sprunt Field, or the Fresh Field, as it is sometimes called, and from there the unit will move to Richardson Field, where...

ARMISTICE DAY IS OBSERVED DURING CHAPEL SERVICES
Dr. Richards Holds Devotional Part of Armistice Day Program
DR. MARTIN SPEAKS
J. M. McConnell Delivers Key Speech, “Davidson’s Men in the World War”

Fitting exercises were held in chapel Monday morning for an Armistice Day program. The chapel exercises were the only recognition of this day held by the college. Following the morning program the usual college schedule was followed. Dr. Richards presided at the morning devotional, and following a short reading from the Bible spoke briefly upon the universal blessedness of peace, showing that the time when all men were to lay down their swords was not meant to be the millennium but the present time, that all should “beat their swords into plowshares, and...They will stack arms and their spears into pruning hooks.” After Dr. Richards spoke, Dr. Col. A. L. Gaston, of the class of 1806, gave a short speech upon the significance of Armistice Day. Dr. Martin showed the horrors of war, pointing out that, although the present student was too young to remember it, the great disruption that the war made upon this nation, with commerce torn up, and the best blood of the nations, that of youth, being spilt upon the battlefield. He told of the great joy spread over the world when God finally told His sons to cease firing, and that now is the time for reconstruction, a new era has begun; urging us to work for this, not as slaves or in subjection, but as brother with brother. Dr. Martin said that the real significance of Armistice Day lies in the fact that it is a reminder of the pathos of the world’s finest idealists, of the flowerhood of the world, that went out to battle. Although some of them died, more of them have come back to us, maimed and crippled, as a reminder that the effects of the great struggle are still with us, even if the conflict is over.

The custom of reading the alumni deaths of the past year will be carried out. Both school songs will be played by the band which is furnishing the music for this occasion. Immediately following the exercises in the stadium there will be an informal luncheon in the gym for the alumni. The football game with Carolina will begin at 2:30 p.m. The services of the Lenoir High School Band have been secured for this event and will play in cooperation with the Davidson R.O.T.C. Band. The Lenoir Band is a colorful organization and the winner of the state’s finest high school band contest last year. They will be gaily bedecked and ready to perform at the beginning of the game. The band will perform between the halves of the game. Also, for 12 minutes between the halves, there will be a smaller football game. The Mites of Sarium Springs will meet the Mites from the Methodist Orphanage in Winston-Salem during the interim of the halves and during the 15 minutes immediately following the big game. The participants in this game will weigh 100 pounds or less.

A Stunt Night program is being worked out by the Glee Club and promises to be a real entertainment. Tickets are already being reserved for the occasion and much of the middle section is already sold out. The attendance of the alumni at the Homecoming program promises to be large. Reservations have already been sent in from Ohio, Pennsylvania, Oklahoma, West Virginia, Virginia, Georgia, Florida, Tennessee, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Maryland.

Prizes To Be Offered For Best News Story
Contest Will Soon be Sponsored by Delta Pi Kappa

Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, in order to stimulate interest in journalism, will soon be offering a prize for the best newspaper article printed each month. At a recent meeting of this fraternity, a committee was appointed to investigate this matter and report upon the best plan for carrying this out. This committee is composed of W. K. Pritchett, chairman; R. F. Jarratt, and F. D. Miller. Definite plans have not yet been worked out by the committee, but at present the tentative plans include an offering of several prizes each month, for the best newspaper article, the best feature story, and the best editorial. This contest will in all probability be open only to men who are not members of the staff of “The Davidsonian.” All material entered in the contest will automatically become the property of the newspaper.

Aubrey Brown, head of Delta Pi Kappa, stated that the reason for this action was not only partly to stimulate interest in journalism, but, if possible, to bring out any latent talent along journalistic lines that even the man himself does not know that he possesses. He added that the fraternity is sponsoring this in order to try to accomplish something on the campus, that the chapter is trying to remove the stigma of uselessness placed upon the honorary fraternities here; by the charge that the honorary fraternity is only something (Continued on page 6).

Dr. J. Moore McConnell gave the main talk of the exercise, “Davidson Men in the World War.” Dr. McConnell said: “Seven hundred and thirty-six students and alumni of Davidson College entered the World War. In addition to this, 223 students in college in the fall of 1918 were enrolled in the S.A.T.C. This means that 954 men, about one-fourth of the living alumni of the college, saw service in the great war in one capacity or another. Of the 736 who actually got into some form of war service, 368, or exactly half, were commissioned officers. I do not know the record of any other non-military college in the land, but I doubt if any other institution surpassed this high record. Of this number of men who entered the Great War, 20 made the supreme sacrifice either in battle or in hospital. To those who survived, we this day (Continued on page 3).

REV. JACKSON WILL SPEAK AT VESPERS
Minister from Greenwood, S.C., Secured Through M. T. Gilmour

The “Y” has secured the Rev. James Wiley Jackson, of Greenwood, S.C., to speak at the next vesper service. Mr. Jackson was secured through M. T. Gilmour, cabinet member in charge of securing the weekly speakers for the services. He was first recommended to the Y.M.C.A. by Dr. Rowan, of Concord. Mr. Jackson is one of the leading young ministers in the Southern Presbyterian Church. He graduated from the Louisville Theological Seminary. After his graduation, he filled the pulpit at Tallahassee, Fla. From there he went to his present charge at Greenwood, S.C. At this place, he fills one of the most prominent pulpits in South Carolina. The speaker at the next vesper service has the unusual distinction of having had some of his sermons published in Naber's Book of Sermons. Dr. J. C. Rowan, in endorsing the action of the “Y” in getting the Rev. Mr. Jackson, says, “Though I have never heard this man, I have read his published sermons often and I know that the men of Davidson will receive a great message from him.” The “Y” through its leaders has expressed itself as feeling very fortunate in securing Mr. Jackson to speak.