4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1928

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

"News of the Hill"
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Editor by 7 p.m. on Tuesday.
Articles submitted must be signed, but the name of the author will be withheld if requested. No article will be published from an unknown source.

AUBREY N. BROWN, JR. ----------------Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD ----------------------Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
F. D. MILLER ------------------------Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT -----------------------Managing Editor
Z. V. LONG ---------------------------Sports Editor
V. A. MILTON ------------------------News Editor
R. P. MAISEL -------------------------Associate Editor
C. R. LAKE ---------------------------Associate Editor
B. MORIARTY ------------------------Associate Editor
K. PRITCHETT -----------------------Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY -------------------Assistant Business Manager
S. J. GILLESPIE ----------------------Assistant Business Manager
W. W. WALLACE ---------------------Assistant Business Manager
P. J. McGEE --------------------------Subscription Manager
B. E. GALLOWAY --------------------Circulation Manager
J. F. GALLOWAY ---------------------Assistant Circulation Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
J. L. ELY -----------------------------President
W. McDERMID -----------------------Vice-President
E. S. HEEFNER ----------------------Secretary-Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN
V. MIDDLETON
D. P. ANDERSON
T. NUNAN
S. R. COKER
J. PRESTON
C. H. DUBOSE
C. RAGIN
A. FREW
D. RUSK
R. D. TYSON
R. GRAHAM
J. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
K. M. KING
S. S. WILEY
N. C. C. P. Reporter
SAM WILEY
N. C. C. P. Reporter

EDITORIAL

The Davidsonian Wants:
—to know when the Norris Trophy election is to be held.
—to thank the Y. M. C. A. for securing Gipsy Smith to speak here.
—to voice approval of the refusal of the Senior gift by the Faculty.
—to thank all who contributed to the success of Junior Speaking.
—try-outs for feature editor and columnist of this publication before next Saturday.
—to commend the Forensic Council for changing the manner of election of its governing officials.
—to congratulate the Duke CHRONICLE, N. C. C. W.’s PINE NEEDLES, and the Duke ARCHIVE upon winning first place in the state in their respective fields.
—to apologize for its more or less unsettled state during this period of experiment and trials in preparing to give its readers the best volume in its history.
—to know what you want.

Golf may be a Scotch game but the way in which it is played on the local links is proof enough that it can be played without a kilt.

Comes to us the story of the woman who had her husband’s teeth pulled so that he couldn’t bite the gold off the saucers.

And when mechanical “men” are put on the market students will be able to sleep longer in the mornings if they have properly directed their “men” concerning the chapel route.

Due to error, the staff for the Junior Week issue of The Davidsonian was omitted from the mast-head. This very creditable production was edited and financed through the efforts of Raymond Lake as editor and Sam Allison, business manager.

Davidson will have the opportunity to give proof of her hospitality when the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association meets here next fall. Dick proved to be a most gracious host last week, providing a most enjoyable program and extending a warm and wholehearted welcome.

WHY THE “Y”?

One of the most notable of a long list of achievements of the local Y. M. C. A. is the recent publication of the booklet entitled “Why the ‘Y’?” Those in charge of Davidson’s Association merit the undivided support and genuine thanks of every one of its members for the many progressive movements fostered by them. The booklet is a comprehensive and well-edited review of the various branches of the organization as they seek through their committees on weekly meetings, church relations, personal work, vocational guidance, and a host of others, “to lead the students of Davidson College to a greater faith in God and a complete acceptance of Jesus Christ as their Lord and Master and to give them a field of service for Him.”

There is no doubt in the minds of this student body as to why the “Y,” for they realize its tremendous influence and importance as they come in contact with it each day.

CONCERNING GIFTS

An attempt to present a gift which would have undoubtedly caused regret in years to come was frustrated when the Faculty refused to accept the scholarships as proposed by the graduating class. Although vested in the garments of harmlessness and disguised as an effort to assist “needy and deserving students,” the whole affair was nothing more or less than an assault upon one of the finest and most praiseworthy of all of Davidson’s traditions, i.e., no paid athletes. As worded in the proposal accepted by the class, the funds which were to be raised by an assessment of all members were to be used in the forming of scholarships for “needy students,” but in the original discussion, the whole matter was said to hinge about the manner in which the “needy students” would always be good athletes.

Certainly the motive behind the movement cannot be criticized, for the Class of ’28 has shown in innumerable ways a spirit of unfailing devotion to their Alma Mater and the very desire to make expression of this feeling is but another manifestation of this spirit. This in itself is to be commended even though the manner of expression draws fire from various sources.

Now that the hitch has come in the College regulations as to the control of the awarding of scholarships, the seniors seem to be searching for anyone who favored the proposal in the first instance for many of them abhor the very idea of such. (The recommendation passed at a called meeting of the class by a large majority.)

It is unfortunate that every group of graduates cannot contribute such harmless (and such useless) gifts as campus lights, ticket booths, stone benches, and the like, but the campus would not stand for much more in the way of fixtures, or, in the case of the fountain, it would not be practicable to scatter any more of such about the place after a sufficiency has been reached.

The seniors will meet with some difficulty in selecting a successor to the athlete-buying attempt but this publication hopes that, rather than make another proposal similar to the previous one, nothing be given. Let’s keep that tradition unblemished of which every Davidsonian feels justly proud, and have no paid athletes!

A PROPOSAL IN REGARD TO THOSE LECTURES

In defining the policy of the new staff, the statement was made that more “good” lectures should be presented to this student body. Included with lectures, entertainments generally are included. It is evident that two, or perhaps three attractions per year cannot mean so very much in the life of each student and especially is this true when all are of rather mediocre worth. Far be it from us to criticize the Lecture Committee for this lack because we realize that they spend the entire amount allotted to them for this purpose each year and cannot do more.

Our proposal is simply this: That one dollar be added to the campus tax of each student, upon entrance in the fall, to be devoted to use by the Lecture Committee. With an addition of some six hundred and fifty dollars and the present sum of approximately three hundred dollars, several worthwhile personages could be brought here. We might have the pleasure of hearing Will Durant, John Erskine, Richard Halliburton, as well as eminent figures in world affairs of the present day without going to Charlotte or other nearby places and spending three or four times the amount of the additional fee. Prominent musicians or other types of entertainers would be available with the increased capital whom, in the opinion of The Davidsonian, students, faculty members, and townspeople would enjoy hearing. The latter group might be glad to pay the same fee as imposed upon the students in order that entertaining as well as instructive programs might be given. The payment of this slight additional fee would not be realized by the payers as it would be only a small amount and would provide a series of really worthwhile attractions.

Inquiring Reporter

Collegiate Comment

Compared with former Junior Speaking entertainments, what is your opinion of the new plan as carried out by the Class of 1929 during the past weekend?“To my mind the new order of Junior Speaking is the most significant reversal of a worthless precedent made at Davidson in recent years. Needless expense has been eliminated; the valuable time of Junior Class members has been saved; and at the same time a more enjoyable program than that of preceding years has been originated.”

Dave Howard: “It is a very good thing not to have Junior Speaking at Easter because at that time not half the men remain on the campus. The new Junior Speaking places less burden on the Junior Class, but at that there should be more to it. It is a good innovation that will be a great deal better when we get used to it.”

Jeff Garrison: “As a whole the new system of Junior Speaking is much better than the method that has been used up until this year. In the first place, there was not so much worry and expense; then, the new way eliminated the spirit of competition that was growing to such an extent that in a few years the class would not be able to meet the demands.”

Dr. Vowles: “A great improvement was made in Junior Speaking this year because there was not such a great expense to the students. It is much better to leave the spring vacation free and too, simplicity in the entertainments is what is needed.”

Jake Robinson: “Too much money has been put in Junior Speaking in the past for the returns received. I think that there was as much benefit obtained this year as last.”

B. F. Martin: “The new way is a great deal more economical, but if it were possible to raise enough money without an assessment, I would like to see the old way continued with an entertainment at the Gym. The minstrel this year was not so definitely linked up with the Junior Class as a formal reception or other affairs would have been.”

Dr. T. W. Lingle: “To those of us who grew up with the traditions that Junior Speaking was one of the most important parts of the commencement, the present insubordination of this affair is rather like a disappointment. However, the times have changed and possibly one cannot expect commencement to be what it once was.”

F. S. (Piggy) Wearn: “This year’s Junior Speaking was a whole lot better than last year’s, because there were more boys on the campus and more people entered into it with more interest. In the past there were great expenses for the class while only a few men could enjoy the benefits. Now there are fewer expenses; there is something for all the men to enjoy; and they are able to get something out of it.”

Open Forum

JUNIOR ORATORICALS

Speeches of the type delivered by college students do not amount to much. Their greatest usefulness is the experience the speaker himself gets in crystallizing his opinions and in forming firm convictions and secondarily in persuading others to accept those convictions in part or in whole. The majority of contests are attended proportionately to their degree of worth and interest. But at Davidson forensic activities have been in the minority, and have been among those contests attended without the enthusiasm which they merit. Varsity debates in which men of ability have taken part as well as other forensic activities of worth have been attended by the intimate friends of the contestants and by no others. The writer has been present at contests at several colleges and universities both larger and smaller than Davidson and has observed that without exception the members of those student bodies have shown more interest in high school contests than is granted to intercollegiate and intramural forensic activities at Davidson.

Such was the case in the Junior oratoricals held here Friday night. There were four participants in this event and the level of their talks was extraordinarily high. To hear these four men there were present forty-one students, nine professors, ten townspeople and two house-party guests, a total of sixty-two persons—fifteen per speaker. Junior Oratoricals of several years ago were successes. Everybody was interested. For the past few years they have been more or less failures. They will continue to be failures as long as no one takes interest in them. The people present at the oratoricals Friday night did not warrant the preparation the men participating had put on their productions. Before the preacher can fill the pulpit the congregation must fill the pews. Before Junior Oratoricals can be a success the student body will have to support them with their interest and their attendance.

F. D. M.

Disobedient freshmen at the University of Akron are now punished by the loss of vote in the class elections. The plan is expected to be very effective as the interest in campus politics is high.

All undergraduates at the University of Kansas are given an opportunity to vote on whom they want for next year’s lecture course speakers.

At the blast of a whistle, sophomores and freshmen of Lafayette College rushed for a cane held at each end by a member of their classes. The class having the most hands on the cane at the next blast was declared the winner.

In addition to installing 34 new tennis courts, the University of Michigan started an artificial ice plan to allow skating and hockey the year round.

In a recent “Grievance Issue,” the Duke Chronicle gave opportunity to all students who desired to air their views concerning certain practices, customs, professors (maybe), and other such. The enterprise was highly successful.

To complete the feeling of unity among Experimental College students, a distinctive type of blazer coat is being worn by most of the freshmen. The custom is similar to that practiced at Oxford and Cambridge where every college has its individual blaze and one is considered well-dressed with one on at any time of day.

Girls at N. C. C. W. were recently asked a number of questions: “Do you pet?” “Do your friends pet?” “Have you ever cheated?” “Do you believe in prohibition?”—anyway it was sort of a purity test. Now they say, “We sincerely hope that the committee of three will be turned into a committee of Safety and guard those sheets with their lives if they want us to have even a shred of our reputation left.” Some of them must have flunked the test. Eh, what?

Denver’s dean of women has taken a decided stand against the practice of selecting the university’s most beautiful co-eds through the means of a beauty contest. “They are degrading and insulting to girls whose brains are entirely overlooked, and place co-eds on a level with follies girls,” she says.

Students at two universities, Kansas and Ohio Wesleyan, according to The New Student, have adopted resolutions protesting American intervention in Nicaragua and demanding cooperation with Latin-Americans in the supervision of the Nicaraguan elections.

To support third party interests through the support of Norman Thomas, socialist candidate for President, a local socialist group has been founded at Dartmouth College. The Princetonian, student organ at Mr. Thomas’ alma mater, is proud to claim him, and in fact, feels “rather hurt that Mr. Thomas’ press agents did not see fit to announce that the socialist candidate is a graduate of Princeton.”

Twenty-seven fraternal, political, religious, social, and labor organizations of the University of California, participating in a conference on military training, came to the conclusion that the R. O. T. C., whether on an optional or compulsory basis, is part of a general program of militarism, says The New Student.

Roscoe M. Bloss, liberal arts sophomore at Michigan State College, has been indefinitely suspended for publishing charges of corruption and graft against the college and state administrations in The Student, a non-conformist and unofficial campus magazine.

Northwestern University will be the first institution to present a course on business ethics in connection with its school of commerce, when such a study is added next year.

Columbia College will displace the present curriculum of twenty years’ standing next September when the first two years of work will be devoted to “orientation and discovery” and the junior and senior years will prepare them for “the yet more vast business of living a useful and high-minded life.”

Believing that the editor of the student daily, the Bruin, was not conforming to the policy of constructive criticism, etc., etc., the senate of the University of California has made him promise that he will not, upon pain of removal from office, print “anything of a sarcastic or critical nature that would not be for the best interests of the University and the Associated Students.”