Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN October 11, 1928.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Binal ce, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not
be published.

Editor-in-Chief
BREY BROWN

Business Manager
W. M. POWELL

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
MILLER PRATT

Feature Editor
PRITCHETT

Assistant Editor
Assistant Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Subscription Manager
H. K. L. Mer.
E. Mer.
W. Mer.
R. Mer.
H. Mer.
G. D. Solicitor
A. Solicitor
M. D. Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President
Vice-President
Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN
R. T. NUNAN
S. R. ER
TIES
DUBOSE
W. C.
A. FREW
D. RUSK
R. GRAHAM
C. A. KIRKPATRICK
S. H. LOD
J. P. McBRYDE
J. V. MIDDLETON

Thursday, October 11, 1928

The Davidsonian Wants
—to add more praises for the coaching staff and those Wildcats.
—to commend the new sophomore and freshman review schedule.
—somebody to initiate the Open Forum column with a contribution.
—more sympathy for and cooperation with the literary societies.
—to call attention to the services sponsored by the “Y” which are to be conducted here beginning October 21st.
—it known that the six-page, six-column Davidsonian has twenty-four column-inches more than the eight-page, five-column paper had.

UNDERGRADUATE CYNICISM
Negative college students came in for severe criticism from President Hopkins of Dartmouth College recently when he took those to
task who are somewhat cynical in their outlook and conduct. In the usual words, the President emphasized the responsibility of
the youth of today and of the dependence of civilization thereon. His attack was directed upon the cynical attitude and
the self-sufficiency of a certain type as he declared that, “The youth of today could, to the advantage of its
own generation, be somewhat less assured in regard to its own immediate sufficiency for creating a new structure of life,
that it could to its own ultimate welfare, be less certain of the finality of its opinions; that it could,
to its own eventual self-respect, be less cavalier in its judgments of men and deeds of the present and past;
and it could, to the end of safeguarding its own span of life against ill, be patient to serve a
longer apprenticeship before arrogating to itself an assumption of complete wisdom in all matters affecting its own world.”

His attack was upon the collegiate press as he said, “There, in comparison with one understanding utterance based on intelligent
interest as to how education might be made more helpful to humanity or more profitable to the individual, we find
hundreds of cleverly written editorials and articles subversive of all conventions, of all standards and of all ideals, if these
interfere with individual desire, individual caprice or individual self-indulgence. There, in place of any frequent discussion of what undergraduates might
do to help their respective colleges, we find the tiresome reiteration of what the college ought further to do for
the undergraduates.”

The Dartmouth, college paper, differs with Dr. Hopkins as it claims a place for the liberal college and its by-product,
cynicism. By this it does not mean “the rational cynicism of the boy who is merely discontent with life, but
rather the cynicism that comes with the development of the objective, or scientific, attitude in the undergraduate.” “The problem,” it
says, “is only one of adjustment, or bringing into harmony a gentle-souled and contemplative cynicism with the symbols of human
endeavor which preceded its negativity.”

Undergraduate actions should not be taken so seriously, in our opinion, for it is usually characterized by youthful enthusiasm and
ideals. Many times it is not sincere as one of the purposes of the college cynic is usually to create
the impression that he is an individualist and must rebel against the ideals of the “common herd.” But this person
is useful and should be given some recognition for there is often much of the progressive that comes from him
alone even though it may have to be re-molded and re-directed.

The thought is expressed that the student upon whom the attitude of humility and the objective, or scientific attitude have
developed side by side will naturally have as a result a gentle-souled and contemplative cynicism and will be the happy
medium that both Dr. Hopkins and The Dartmouth are striving for.

ANOTHER KEY FOR THE WATCH CHAIN
With the issuance of honorary fraternity bids there arises again the question as to their value and place on this
campus. There has always been, since their inception, a degree of cynicism and ridicule of such organizations and much of
this has been justifiable, but the attraction of the Greek letters, the pride in wearing the “key” and the added
attraction of a picture in the annual have quickly overweighed any such objections to membership as one who receives a
bid might have.

This situation should not be. Where there are organizations there must certainly have once been a demand which, in most
cases, has continued to exist. The trouble seems to be that there has been no one willing to assume the
needed responsibility and make of the fraternities what they should be—societies recognizing superiority in certain lines and promoting interest in
the same. Every one of the fraternities could accomplish much that would be helpful to the college and student body.
It is up to them whether they are revived or remain the farcical organizations that most of them are.

The chief difficulty which some freshmen have is that they can’t seem to live within their roommate’s allowance.

It looked like persecution of the Christians is not a thing of the past last Saturday.

And who is quarterback at Electoral College this year, anyway?

The departure of twenty of his twenty-eight wives must have made a defeated Chinese general 70 percent grass widower.

Republocrat or Demublican?

Minor Chords
PRAYER
Lord, let my spirit range as free
As the glad salt winds that roam the sea,
And let my course to harbor be
So laid that straight shall lie the path
Through the mad northeastern’s wildest wrath
For me.
Temper my soul to every blast,
To the scorching sun, to the ice knit fast;
And test me, hull and spar and mast.
But when I’m wracked by wind and foam
Safe warp me into my harbor home
At last.
—Frank Hall.

Current Comment
By John Brown

Hotchpot
By W. K. Pritchett

The publisher-manager of the Literary Digest who, by the way, is a Roman Catholic, recently mailed out 19,600,000 ballots for
straw voting. In 1924 the Literary Digest claimed a straw vote which was 99.44% accurate. Returns from the first of
this year’s ballots give Hoover 21,756 votes as compared with 10,222 for Smith. The results from a straw vote conducted
by the Pathfinder, which is essentially rural, are: Hoover 233,315; and Smith 197,408. In electoral votes this amounts to 321
for Hoover and 210 for Smith. Forty-eight states were represented. And in the straw vote conducted by the Hearst press,
which is essentially urban, Hoover leads Smith 390,933 against 337,718. If straw votes mean anything, it would seem that Mr.
Tillett was mistaken when he said in the Open Forum last Monday that it looks like Al will win in
spite of everything.

Among the well-known writers of today some who are supporting the Republican ticket are: Zane Grey, Harold Bell Wright, Kathleen
Norris, Edward Bok, Bruce Barton, Will Durant, Booth Tarkington and Don Marquis. On the other hand, those for Smith include
H. L. Mencken, Rupert Hughes, Anita Loos, and John Erskine. And in Atlantic City last week an association of 125,000
men pledged themselves to the Democratic cause. They were the United Association of Plumbers, Gas, and Steam Fitters.

“Some people seem to prefer to bolt party while others bolt principle. Some show treason to reason while others do
violence to prejudice. Better judge them all kindly and give them credit for conscientious patriotism even though their diverse facts
and fancies may bring them to conflicting conclusions.” Instead of breeding disrespect for whichever may become our future president, the
opinion expressed above should instill a more wholesome spirit of respect due to administrative office holders.

During the hurricane centering at West Palm Beach a few days ago the barometer fell to the lowest mark ever
recorded in the United States. About 1,500 were killed and 15,000 made homeless. The property loss amounted to between fifty
and seventy-five million dollars. In Porto Rico 15,000 were attacked by influenza and 5,000 by malaria, measles, and other diseases.
Besides the loss of homes and business houses, heavy losses will be sustained by growers. It is estimated that the
loss of sugar cane is 25 percent; of tobacco, 50 percent; of coffee, 75 percent; and of fruit, 100 percent.
It will be a long time before these storm sufferers recover from the devastating effects of the hurricane.

Adequate relief might be brought about by the American gum chewers if everyone would deposit their nickels for the storm
sufferers instead of buying chewing gum. Last year the American people spent $58,018,271 on chewing gum, and that is $2,000,000
more than in 1926.

Aimee Semple McPherson last Sunday preached at London before an audience of 11,000 while many others were turned away from
the doors. Bulletins and press notices were issued warning the public against her evangelical teachings, but people are by nature
curious, so they went anyhow, and most of them seemed pleased.

The British army now has an anti-tank gun which can destroy any tank at 800 yards. In England they are
now completing two new giant rigid airships, the R-100 and R-101. They have a capacity of 5,000,000 cubic feet and
carry 130 passengers and crew. TheGerman airship Count Zeppelin ranks next with a capacity of 3,000,000 cu. ft. and capable
of carrying 80 men. Its maximum speed is 81 miles per hour. The United States ranks third with the Los
Angeles, which is the only rigid airship in the U.S. It has a capacity of 2,500,000 cu. ft. and carries
60 men at a maximum speed of 79 miles per hour. Europe is taking rapid strides to advance aeronautics of
every type. America is by no means standing still, but Europe seems to be taking the lead in this field.

Robert—“Olga, when I am far away will you think of me?”
Olga—“Yes, Robert, I’ll always think of you as very close.”

An article in a leading New York newspaper reveals a curious incident illustrative of the European nationality situation since the
World War. A young Tyrolian was arrested at Constance for disturbing the nocturnal peace of the inhabitants. When he was
brought to the police station, the commissary asked him: “What is your nationality?”
“I don’t know,” replied the joyous marauder.
“You do not know?”
“No, you see, since the war all the members of my family have changed their nationality. My grandfather, who lived
in Galicia, has become a Pole; my uncle, a Czecho-Slovak, and my brother changed from an Austrian subject to a
Rumanian citizen.”
“Enough of that nonsense,” cut in the commissary, “What is your father’s nationality?”
“My father,” said the Tyrolian, “was an Austrian for 75 years. Eight years before his death he became an Italian.
You tell me what I am now. I really don’t know.”
And neither do we!

Mr. Hoover is not economical in the use of the word “economics.” Our idea of an economist is one who
tells you what to do with your money after he has done something else with it.

Brisbane says that in Germany every day, on average, 230 apply for patents. Saturday there were over 300. The practical
German mind rarely seeks to protect foolish ideas. “Germany’s revival will come largely from her patent office,” says Gilbert. Thinking,
highly educated Germans are today leading the world in chemistry and in many lines. The greatest mine of wealth—and the
only mine inexhaustible—is the human mind. One hour’s concentrated thinking may mean billions in wealth for the world. Use your
brain.

As long as John Barleycorn doesn’t have to pay taxes he is only legally dead.

Mr. Baird, the pioneer of television in England, has been experimenting with infra-red rays of low vibration, which are outside
our physical range of vision. He finds that specially prepared plates can be made sensitive to these radiations. The infra-red
rays penetrate fog as well as darkness, and they will be used by aviators and navigating officers to detect their
whereabouts in times of fog. This recalls the strange, prophetic words of Milton in Paradise Lost: “Yet from these flames
No light, but rather, darkness made visible.”

Man takes himself too seriously. When he bolts his party, he claims the party has left him.

During the last year for which statistics have been compiled, fire in our national forests alone swept an area of
some three hundred and fifty thousand acres. The timber itself is computed at seven hundred and fifty-two thousand eight hundred
and fifty-one dollars. To this must be added the destruction of game and fur-bearing animals, the ruin of recreational places,
the far-ranging effects of erosion and unregulated stream-flow, and the loss of large quantities of leaf litter. The U.S. Department
of Agriculture says that the leaf litter alone, containing nitrogen, is valued at fifteen dollars an acre. The great majority
of these fires are man-made. We should try to prevent such serious loss to the country by stopping human carelessness.

Today there are two major parties. After the election, they are classed as the appointed and the disappointed.

Sergeant (drilling a bunch of green men)—“When I was a little boy, I had a set of wooden soldiers. One
day I lost them and cried very hard. But my mother said, ‘Never mind, Johnny, some day you will have
your soldiers back.’ And now (he paused and wiped his eyes) that day has come.”—Ames Green Gander.

Teacher—“Norman, give me a sentence using the word ‘diadem.’”
Norman—“People who drive on the railroad crossings without looking diadem sight quicker than those who Stop, Look and Listen.”

“I’m the chap you paid to drown your cat; and I’m sorry, sir, but the check you gave me came
back.”
“Well, but my good fellow, so did the cat!”

WANTON WILES
By Dave Anderson

THE BULL PEN
Last week’s edition of this column was most severely criticized on all sides. There is some consolation in that we
know somebody reads this bull, to say the least. But those that read it seem to have forgotten that it
is just BULL, and is not intended in the least to be serious. These critics seem too, to have forgotten
that there is nothing new under the sun. Even a columnist gleans little that is original; everything is something old
expressed in different words. Incidentally, the portions of this section most severely picked to pieces by bull session frequenters were
picked up from an article in one of the most prominent and one of the best-sellers among this country’s humorous
magazines—an edition a year or so old being the source. And that’s that. Many thanks to the critics. If, as
has been said, popularity is inversely proportional to adverse criticism—then look out Mr. Brisbane and Mr. Rogers, Mr. Cobb and
others who get paid for what we get —— for, Maybe we'll get more perusers for this section now. The
only reason 99 out of 100 people ever read “Elmer Gantry” is because they have heard critics say it was
a rotten excuse for literature and shouldn’t be printed. The only reason we read “The Plastic Age” was because we
heard we should not read it. The only reason we expect anyone to read this is because they have heard
it criticized. If people continue to take this foolishness seriously, then the Editor-in-Chief will have to insert a little note
of explanation above this column similar to that used by most newspapers to dodge the responsibility resultant from Arthur Brisbane’s
occasional radical comments. “The Davidsonian does not necessarily endorse or commend all of the Bull Pen’s comments. It is merely
published as an expression of the ramblings of the world’s lowest salaried bull slinger.” Let the critics rage—we have filled
our two columns, work done. Another week's QUESTIONS EVERY DAVIDSON MAN SHOULD BE ABLE TO ANSWER
1. What hold should one have on the platter of fried chicken while the blessing is being asked?
2. What cuss words are in order when cutting boarding-house steak?
3. What should be the angle of elevation of the forearm when one is sawing on the cow furnished at
all boarding houses?
4. How can you distinguish between the drinking of soup and the noise of a suction pump?
5. What color vest best matches chicken gravy?
6. Should one use the knife or the fork on the entrance of strange “fire” into the house at meal
times?
7. How many times should one ask for the biscuits at the far end of the table before reaching for
them?
8. What is the best method recommended for obtaining an extra dessert?

FROM THE BRIEF CASE
A spade is still a spade, in spite of many who insist on calling a spade a spizzard. Try this
one on your girl; get her to say shut. It’s easy.

Evolutionists who insist on trying to make a monkey out of man should take a tip from the women on
the correct method.

She was only a millionaire’s daughter. What more do you want?

A prof is one who can’t remember where he took his memory course.

My parents told me not to smoke—I don't.
Nor listen to a naughty joke—I don't.
They told me it was wrong to wink
At pretty girls, or ever think
About intoxicating drink—I don't.
To dance or flirt was very wrong—I don't.
Bad men choose women, wine and song—I don't.
I've never kissed a girl—not one—
In fact, I don’t know how it’s done—
You may think I don’t have any fun—I don't.

MY BROTHERS
My frat brothers: They have dated me with flat tires, they have used my last clean shirt, worn out my
socks, borrowed my books and never returned them, broken my safety razor and used all the extra blades, ate dinners
on me when they were broke, borrowed money and never mentioned the fact again, bullied me incessantly, paddled me when
a pledge, they have even used my toothbrush, and the only reason I’m sticking around is because I’m curious to
know what the —— they are going to do next.

FAMOUS EPITAPHS
His name was James Alexander Kohn,
His friends all called him Jim.
But when he answered the telephone,
He shouted, “Yes, this is him.”

Please sir, whose uncle is Uncle Sam?

FROM FATHER TO SON
Dear Son,
You have recently announced your intentions of marrying. I can only wish for you the happiness which I have had
through my choice of a wife. Your mother is leaning over my shoulder as I write this, and as I
gaze into her beautiful eyes, in which the light of love still beams, I pray that you too may obtain
a helpmate so devoted, so steadfast, and so understanding.
Your father.
P.S. Your mother has just left the room. Don’t be a fool, stay single, you idiot.

FORGOTTEN FACES
She: “Am I the first girl you ever kissed?”
Frosh: “Now that you mention it, your face does look familiar.”

There was some doubt at a masquerade as to the exact identity of a certain portly gentleman attired in a
Roman toga with all the et ceteras.
“Pardon me, sir,” inquired a curious guest, “But you are Titus Andronicus, are you not?”
“I should say I’m not,” was the reply. “Why, I haven’t even found the bar yet.”

Love makes a woman make a man make a fool out of himself.

My mother’s brother’s grandfather’s uncle’s brother’s cow’s brother was an ox.
