THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1928

Town News

Davidson Girls Are Honored at Various Colleges

Miss Mary Hamilton of Davidson was recently elected president of the student body at Converse for the coming year. Her sister, Miss Martha Hamilton, who is a graduate of N.C.C.W., is now working on her M.A. degree at Columbia University. Davidson is quite honored in having Misses Lucy Currie and Adele Arbuckle as presidents of the freshman classes at Salem and Agnes Scott respectively. Miss Charlotte Hunter was president of her class one year and has recently been elected to the office of president of the Athletic Association at Agnes Scott. Miss Maud Vinson, who teaches French at Davidson High School, plans to spend the summer at the Alliance Francaise in Paris taking further work in French.

Dr. J. M. Douglas and Prof. Wood plan to spend the summer traveling in Europe. Professors Lilly, Cummings, and Moore are planning to cross in the same ship in June. Professor Cumming is to do research work in the British Museum in London. Professor Moore is to study and travel in France. It is Professor Lilly’s intention to follow the trail of Norse Sagas in Scandinavian lands.

NATIONAL HONORARY FRAT
(Continued from page 1)

doors for there are local organizations at University of Florida, Carolina, and Washington and Lee who are in line for petitions. From a small beginning, the fraternity has grown until the bond now includes more than 240 initiates. The two-day meeting which will be held on Tuesday and Wednesday, will include both closed and public addresses, Dr. White, of Penn. State, being one of the principal speakers, along with R. W. Graves, former student of Davidson, who is now taking graduate work at Princeton University, and who is only one of the few men that the Davidson chapter has sent into advanced work along the line of physics and the allied branches of engineering. Mr. Graves is president of the fraternity.

The program as announced by Professor Fulcher for the convention includes the following events: All sessions held at Quadrangular Club room on campus.

TUESDAY, APRIL 10
11:40 a.m.—Short meeting of the Executive Council.
2:15 p.m.—First session:
1. Report of the secretary and treasurer.
2. Reports and recommendations of the delegates.
3. Discussion of these reports.
4. “The Use of the Vacuum Tube Oscillator in Making Laboratory Measurements,” Dr. R. C. Young, William and Mary College.
5. Baseball Game, Penn. U. vs. Davidson.
7:30 p.m.—Shearer Hall:
1. “Aims and Ideals of Sigma Pi Sigma,” Dr. J. M. Douglas, Davidson College.
2. Address of Welcome, Dr. W. J. Martin, President of Davidson College.
3. “Energy Relation in X-Ray Tubes,” Dr. Marsh White, Penn. State College.
9:30 p.m.—Banquet given by the Alpha chapter.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11
9:30 a.m.—Second session:
1. Address by President Graves.
2. Report of committees.
3. An informal discussion, “The Training of Physicists,” led by Dr. White.
4. Other papers or presentations.
5. Business meeting and election of officers.
2:30 p.m.—Inspection of Mt. Holly Dam and other points of interest.

STATE MEET
(Continued from page 1)

Phoenix, and Farmer, of Wilmington, who each had 10 points. At the close of the events, F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, presented to Captain Reid, of Charlotte, the silver loving cup. This cup was won last year by Charlotte and is the gift of the Davidson College Athletic Association.

Summary:
100-yard dash—Farmer, Wilmington, first; Hancock, Wilmington; Gorham, Raleigh; Hancock, High Point. Time, 10:3.
220-yard dash—Farmer, Wilmington, first; Hancock, Wilmington; Hancock, High Point; Hicks, Charlotte. Time, 24:6.
120-yard low hurdles—Reid, Charlotte, first; Evans, Asheville; Watt, Statesville; Hunter, Charlotte. Time, 14:9.

We offer a set of four Clubs and Canvas Bag for $8.50. We restring Tennis Racquets.
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

White Drug Co.
SERVES THE CAMPUS

(Continued from page 1)

for today sees the field of the specialist vastly overcrowded. The average income of the doctor at the present time is about $7,000 annually. However, it was pointed out that the income of the individual depended largely upon the business ability and past training along those lines. It is a current fallacy that the medical profession is being overcrowded, and that it has been in this same condition for quite some time. The statistics show that for every 1,300 people there is but one doctor. This is due in part to the fact that in the past few years the graduating classes of medical colleges have been greatly decreased. Indeed, very shortly, three institutions are to be abandoned because of the inferior quality of the preparation they have been giving their students.

But five things are a prerequisite to success, according to Dr. Davison. These are: Intellectual honesty, work, enthusiasm, sense of service, and an intellectual curiosity. In contrast, the apparent causes of failure for the average man are: a lack of character, marrying a woman with wealth, a lack of intellectual curiosity, bad habits, and a lack of interest in the work. It is urgent that he who is planning to enter the medical profession decide at an early period in his life, so that he may better prepare himself throughout high school as well as college. Another reason for this is that it should encourage him to try and be through with college work at the age of 19 or 20, so that he may...Take a few years’ work in some contact with fellow students in preparation also, has a very great influence on the student. Therefore, care should be taken in picking the school, that the college picks its students. In closing, Dr. Davison enumerated a few of the details of possible interest regarding Duke’s Medical School. It is to be opened in the year 1930. One of the special features of this school is that it is to have a session in the summer, so that the students may complete their courses in three years, thus giving them a year of hospital work, as well as acquainting the students with the summer courses.

440-yard run—Olsen, Wilmington, first; Fleagle, Davidson; Weaver, Greensboro; Lindeman, Greensboro. Time, 55.

880-yard run—Phoenix, Greensboro, first; Olson, Wilmington; Sherrill, Charlotte; Horney, Greensboro. Time, 2:7-4.

Mile run—Phoenix, Greensboro, first; Bennett, Wilmington; Davenport, Charlotte; Ingram, High Point. Time, 4:55.6.

Mile relay—Asheville, first; Charlotte, Raleigh, High Point. Time, 3:49.4.

Pole vault—Houston, Charlotte, first; Gurley, High Point; Hudson, Barium Springs, and Brown, Statesville, tied for third. Height, 9 feet 11 inches.

Since 1868 the Home of Good Shoes

INEXPENSIVE Oxfords for young men—like those we are showing now—can possess quality without the expected expense. Those we are showing are just such shoes. And they are worthy of your attention. Come in.

Gilmer-Moore Co.
Charlotte, N.C.
SHOES LUGGAGE

Boxing Progresses Under Capt. Elkins

Recently a great deal of interest has been taken in boxing. Captain Elkins of the R.O.T.C. department has taken charge and is giving instructions four times a week. The classes are held on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday nights. Those taking boxing have two classes a week on Tuesdays and Thursdays or on Wednesdays and Fridays. The purpose of this boxing is to arouse interest in the student body and finally to have intercollegiate boxing. This boxing, of course, will help the boxers physically, although the high aim is to start intercollegiate boxing between Davidson and other colleges. Before entering the ring, the boys are weighed and put in their respective classes. Later in the year, elimination bouts will be held among the freshmen. The winners of each class will receive a prize. There will also be exhibition bouts of the heavyweights and older students. Already about thirty boys are out for boxing, but Captain Elkins hopes that others will come out. The college has also taken a great deal of interest in boxing. The Athletic Association has recently bought six pairs of gloves and a punching bag. Dr. Martin has had a regulation size ring built in a very convenient place. It will soon be covered and lighted in order that bouts may be held at night. Several colleges have already ordered Davidson bouts with their boxers. Some of them are Washington and Lee, Virginia Military Institute, Georgia Tech, and the Army. Boxing has taken a prominent part in other colleges and it is hoped that it will take its place in Davidson.

Broad jump—Johnson, Charlotte, first; Woodside, Charlotte; Robinson, Greensboro; Holmes, Asheville. Distance, 19 feet 7 inches.

High jump—Reid, Charlotte, and Johnson, Charlotte, tied for first; Johnson and Robinson, Greensboro, and Ellis, Statesville, tied for second. Height, 5 feet 6 inches.

Shot put—T. Brown, Greensboro, first; Mullis, Charlotte; Wasson, Statesville; Slaughter, Raleigh. Distance, 45 feet 8 inches.

Javelin—Gurley, High Point, first; T. Brown, Greensboro; Armfield, High Point; Mullis, Charlotte. Distance, 149 feet 3 inches.

Discus—Mullis, Charlotte, first; T. Brown, Greensboro; Gurley, High Point; Anderson, Salisbury. Distance, 122 feet 2 inches.

WELL-KNOWN AUTHORITY

Southern Federation of College Men to be Held at Univ. of Ala. in April

The seventh annual convention of the Southern Federation of College Students is to be held at the University of Alabama, April 19, 20, and 21, 1928. This federation, whose purpose is to promote student government methods, was founded at Georgia Tech in 1921. Davidson became a member of the organization in 1923 when the convention was held at Chapel Hill. There are now twenty-one members of the federation including Davidson, Duke, State, V.P.I., Washington and Lee, Florida, Tennessee, Maryland, Emory, Georgia Tech, Kentucky, Mississippi A. & M., and Richmond. The present officers are Walter James, of Georgia Tech, president; John Bullock, Kentucky, vice-president, and Boyce Martin, of Davidson, secretary and treasurer. The delegates have not as yet been definitely chosen to represent the different members, but it is expected there will be a complete list of them by the first of April.

The program for the convention is as follows:

Thursday afternoon, April 19th: Registration of delegates, assignment of delegates to fraternity houses; petitions of non-member colleges received; baseball game, Tech vs. Alabama; Scabbard and Blade dance (night).

Friday morning, April 20th: Welcome by Dean Albert Farrah, of the University of Alabama Law School; response by Walter James, president of the federation; “Student Standards of Action,” by Dr. Lang, head of the philosophy department of the University; and open forum discussion on the college Y.M.C.A., led by Clower, of Emory.

Friday afternoon: “The Outlook for Student Government,” by Dr. Barnwell, dean of the University of Alabama; the “Scope and Influence of Student Government,” open forum discussion, led by Hill, of Alabama; “Co-operation of the N.S.F.A. and the S.F.C.S.,” by Miller, of Washington and Lee, president of N.S.F.A.; Junior prom.

Saturday morning: “Athletics and the College Man,” by Coach Wade, of the University; “School Spirit,” open forum, led by Doerr, of Maryland.

Saturday night: Banquet, given by the Student Government Association of Alabama. Speakers: Dr. G. H. Denny, president of the University of Alabama and Ex-Governor W. W. Brandon, of Alabama.

That out in the western parts of Pennsylvania the schoolmarms still use hickory sticks to make their pupils smart.—Pennsylvania Punch Bowl.

Davidson Theatre

MONDAY, APRIL 2nd
Phyllis Flaver in “Chicago”

TUESDAY, APRIL 3rd
“The Escape” with William Russell and Virginia Valli

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4th
Karl Dane and Geo. Arthur in “Circus Rookies”

THURSDAY, APRIL 5th
Esther Ralston in “Something Always Happens”

FRIDAY, APRIL 6th
Laura LaPlante in “Thanks for the Buggy Ride”

SATURDAY, APRIL 7th
Ken Maynard in “Canyon of Adventure”