October 25, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN

[Faculty Directory]

Arbuckle, Dr. H. B.; Phone 47; Office, Chemistry Building; Residence, Concord St. (Right across from fraternity court).

Beaty, Prof. E. A.; Phone 190; Office, 4th floor Chambers; House, Concord St. (Last brick house left; Prof. Henderson's former
home).

Beckett, Lieut. R. C.; Phone 95; Office, Armory; lives at Mrs. Wooten’s on South St. (Street running past picture show
towards High School).

Blythe, Prof. F. L.; Phone 62; Office, 303 Chambers; stays at Dr. Grey’s home on Main St.

Brown, Dr. C. K.; Phone 112; Office, 216 Chambers; stays at Dr. Hood's home on Concord St.

Currie, Archibald; Phone 129; Office, 316 Chambers; residence, N. Main (north side).

Cumming, Dr. W. P.; no telephone; Office, 207 Chambers; Residence, Concord St.

Davis, Prof. J. H.; Phone 17; Office, Temporary Building; stays at Mrs. N. T. Smith’s (by tennis courts).

Douglas, Dr. J. L.; Phone 132; Office, 204 Chambers; Residence, Concord St.

Douglas, Dr. J. M.; no Phone; Office, Temporary; Home, Concord St. (first house from Main).

Elkins, Capt. J. W.; Phone 175; Office, Armory; Home, Walnut St.

Erwin, Prof. E. J.; Phone 128; Office, 316 Chambers; Home, Faculty Heights.

Fleagle, Prof. F. K.; Phone 114; Office, 303 Chambers; Home, Sloan St. (last house on right).

Foreman, Prof. K. J.; Phone 66-W; Office, 101 Chambers; Home, North Main St. (first house south of cemetery).

Fulcher, Prof. H. M.; Phone 49-W; Office, Temporary; Home, Faculty Heights.

Goldiere, Prof. A. V.; rooms at home of Mrs. N. T. Smith; Phone 17-W; Office 303 Chambers; Residence, Glasgow St.
(house near tennis ct.)

Gorr, Prof. A. C.; rooms with Prof. Mebane; Phone 134-J; Office, 103 Chambers; Residence, Faculty Heights.

Grey, Dr. W. R.; Phone 62; Office 202 Chambers; Home, N. Main St. (house across the street from Dr. Martin’s).

Harding, Dr. C. R.; Phone 68-J; Office at home, N. Main St.

Henderson, Prof. J. L.; Phone 159; Office, 104 Chambers; House, N. Main St. (Dr. Hood's former home).

Hengeveld, F. W.; Phone 146; Office, 113 Chambers; House, Concord St.

Hobart, F. D.; Office in basement of Watts; lives in upstairs of Dr. C. R. Harding’s home.

Hood, Dr. Fraser; Phone 112; Office, 216 Chambers; House, Concord Road (one mile out).

Howard, D. H.; Phone 132; rooms at Dr. J. M. Douglas’ home on Concord Road.

Jackson, F. L.; Phone 55; Office, 104 Chambers; House, Concord St. (opposite Chambers).

Kimbrough, W. N.; rooms at Hotel.

McGrew, Prof. D. R.; Phone 119; Office, 103 Chambers; Residence, North Main (south side, about three blocks from Shearer).

Mebane, Prof. W. N.; Phone 134-J; Office, 101 Chambers; Residence, Concord, south side (second house beyond Old Phi Gam house).

Moore, Prof. J. W.; Phone 134-J; Office, 104 Chambers; rooms at home of Prof. Mebane (location above).

McGill, Mr. M. W.; Phone 185; Office, 107 Chambers; Residence, N. Main Street.

Porter, Prof. W. L.; Phone 147; Office, Shearer; Home, Sloan St.

Pritchett, Capt. N. G.; Phone 163; Office, basement of Chambers; Residence, first house north of theatre.

Puckett, Asst. W. O.; Office, Temporary; Residence, Cornelius.

Richards, Dr. C. M.; Phone 57; Office, 203 Chambers; Residence, north side of Concord Street beyond Fraternity Court.

Sentelle, Dr. M. E.; Phone 102; Office, 111 Chambers; Home, N. Main St. (second house north of theatre).

Sherman, Dr. E. F.; Phone 139; Office, 317 Chambers; Home, Sloan Street (parallel to Concord, one block south—only house on
north side of street).

Thies, Prof. O. J.; Phone 161; Office in Chemistry Building; Home, Woodland Street (second house from Concord), Faculty Heights.

Vowles, Dr. G. R.; Phone 162; Office, 317 Chambers; Home, corner Sloan and Woodland, Faculty Heights.

Watts, Dr. G. B.; Phone 172-J; Office, 104 Chambers; Home, Concord St.

Williams, Prof. J. P.; Phone 170; Office, 108 Chambers; Home N. Main St. (third house north of Shearer).

Wood, Prof. W. W.; Phone 151; Office, 207 Chambers; Home N. Main Street (sixth house north of Shearer).

Lowrance Winner of Football Pentathlon

In the football pentathlon held here Friday afternoon, open to all men who are not out for football, Lowrance led
the field with a total of 43 points to his credit. He was followed by McConnell, who made 39 points;
F. W. Johnston, 38; J. A. Moore, 37, and W. B. McGavock, also 37 points. The longest punt was made
by McConnell, who kicked the ball 55 yards. Johnston flung the pigskin 48 yards for the longest pass. Lowrance made
the longest drop-kick, 30 yards; McConnell, Johnston, and McGavock kicking goals from 25 yards. Lowrance took the contest for passing
accuracy with 13 consecutive hits. The contest in accuracy in drop-kicking was captured by McGavock, who made 5 consecutive kicks
from the 15-yard line. Lowrance received a football as a reward for winning this event.

“OUR FATHER” WAS (Continued from page 1)

In facing the problem of what saving faith really is, Dr. Thompson declared that the object of Christianity is not
to produce men just good enough to be saved, but to have them so feel the dynamic of Christ’s character
that they will live and grow in His likeness.

CONSTITUTION FOR GLEE CLUB (Continued from page 1)

All Through the Night—Wood.
The Sword of Ferrara—Bullard.
The Sleigh—Kountz.
Give a Man a Horse—O'Hara.
A Fatuous Tragedy—Burleigh.
Love Divine—La Forge.

SCHOLASTIC FRAT (Continued from page 1)

man declaiming medal, and has been debating for Davidson for three years. J. B. Moriarty has earned recognition through membership
in Reporters’ Club, Philanthropic Literary Society, Delta Pi Kappa, Spanish Club, Golden Quill, and the Beaver Club. He was assistant
manager of the basketball team and is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

WIRELESS REPORT (Continued from page 1)

for each name, and of which the Davidson record was lost. The managers of the movement hope to make another
attempt at the play-by-play in the near future.

PROGRAM FOR PRESS (Continued from page 1)

These discussion groups will be conducted by students. This is something of an innovation, since they have always been led
by others than the members or delegates themselves, in the past. The final event of the convention is to be
a luncheon given at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel by the Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company, at noon, Saturday, November 3.

THOMPSON DELIVERS (Continued from page 1)

Yet, righteousness as surely grows better as sin grows worse; God is still willing to listen if we're still longing
to talk to Him. Finally, the same God

SOCIETIES CONSIDER CHANGE OF NIGHT

Due to the large proportion of the student body having other meetings on Thursday night, committees were appointed by both
literary societies to look into the matter of changing the meeting night. From the Phi Society, Sam Coker, C. H.
Dubose and S. W. Dubose were appointed, with Graham Long and M. W. Norfleet from the Eumeneans.

On the program of the Philanthropic Society, the feature was a debate on the subject, “Resolved, That European Immigration Should
be Wholly Restricted for a period not to Exceed Two Years.” The affirmative team was composed of R. T. Elliot
and D. F. Helm, who were opposed by S. W. Dubose and T. H. Hall. A vote of the house
on the merits of the question was in favor of the affirmative.

The Eumenean Society departed from the usual type of program in presenting a mock trial in which A. N. Brown
acted as judge, R. O. Flynn as prosecuting attorney, M. M. King as defense attorney, and O. B. Long as
defendant. The defendant was found guilty and a heavy sentence was imposed.Who put this inexorable law of cause and result
in man’s life is also the One who is the author of John 3:16. Although man has butchered his moral
nature, he is changed by the grace of God.

A Town Gone Wild

Delaware, Ohio, Oct. 17—(AP)—Enthusiasm over the recent victory of Ohio Wesleyan University’s football team over Michigan, to the tune of
17 to 7, lasted a whole week after the game. Mention of the team or Coach Gauthier in the chapel
or on the campus was followed immediately by a spontaneous cheer. The entire city went mad when the news of
the victory was flashed over the wires. A crowd estimated at over fifty thousand packed the streets of Charlotte to
see Governor Alfred Smith, the Democratic nominee for president, Thursday night. Practically the whole student body went to the station
in an attempt to stop the train on which he was riding. It is not denied that probably as many
would make an effort to see Herbert Hoover, the Republican nominee for the same office. Yet the interesting question is:
What percentage of those who made a special endeavor to see these nominees will go to as much trouble to
vote when election day comes? The masses become frenzied at the thought of seeing a candidate for high office. But
how many will vote to place the best man there?

A clergyman had occasion to preach to the inmates of an insane hospital. During his sermon, he noticed that one
of the patients paid the closest attention, his eyes riveted upon the preacher’s face, his body bent eagerly forward. After
the service, the speaker noticed that the patient spoke to the Superintendent, so he inquired: “Did that man speak to
you about my sermon?” “Yes.” “Would you mind telling me what he said?” “Well,” replied the Superintendent, with some hesitation,
“what the man said was, ‘Just think, he’s out and I’m in.’”—Christian Register.

For SATISFACTION’S SAKE SMOKE CHESTERFIELDS (THE HONOR TOBACCO TRUTH)

AGENTS ARE TO COLLECT DURING LIMITED HOURS

According to R. E. Kell, all agents for dry cleaners and shoe repair shops must do their collecting between 9:00
and 10:30 o'clock on Monday and Thursday nights. This regulation is to go into effect immediately. Many students who have
been inconvenienced by the interruption of their studies will be glad to know of this new regulation. Now all of
the agents will call at about the same time and the continual interruptions, which have existed on Monday and Thursday
nights, will be converted into only one interruption which will last for only a short while. The regulation will also
be beneficial to the men who do the collecting, since with shorter hours men will make it a point to
be in their rooms at this time if they have any work to be done.

CURRENT COMMENT (Continued from Page 2)

The United States seems to be a good land for old people. There are about five and one-half million persons
above 65 years of age in the United States; about 1,680,000 at least 73; 240,000 at 85; 60,000 at 90;
and in 1920, 4,207 centenarians. The present maximum age seems to be about 107 years. But who wants to live
over 107 years?

The French government is seriously considering a projected plan by an American engineer by which several canals would be cut
from the Gulf of Gabes inland to the Sahara Desert to the dry beds of what were formerly salt lakes,
lying below sea level, some 250 miles to the sea. Thus the Mediterranean would be let into the Sahara, forming
an inland sea of approximately 10,000 square miles in extent. The Sahara Desert itself, however, comprises 3,500,000 square miles, so
such a plan, if carried out, would increase the local rainfall only in a limited way. Neither would it promote
vegetation, since the water would be too salty. It would, however, provide a means of travel and transportation which would
do much to reclaim part of the most hopelessly sterile and hostile region known to man.

Davidson Boys Guests at Tea

A number of Davidson boys were present at an informal sorority tea at Queens College on last Friday afternoon. The
tea was a charming and informal affair and one of the many social activities centering about the installation of the
Zeta Kappa Gamma local sorority as a chapter of the Kappa Delta national sorority. The campus house of the Zeta
Kappa Gamma sorority was the scene of the tea and was attractively decorated with fall flowers and ivy. The guests
of honor were the officers of the Kappa Delta national sorority. In the receiving line were: Miss Ann Fayssoux Johnson,
Miss Gladys Pugh of Montgomery, Miss Kathryn Byrd of Jacksonville, Miss Addie Mundy of Atlanta, Miss Jean Coltrane of Concord,
Mrs. A. Paddock, Mrs. Irvin Knight, Dr. and Mrs. W. H. Frazer, Miss Sallie McLean, and Mrs. Charles W. Tillett,
all of Charlotte. Davidson boys present were: George Abernethy, R. B. Erkman, C. E. Kraemer, D. P. Anderson, J. S.
Scales, P. B. Fry, R. H. Jarratt, J. A. Wilson, E. S. Heefner, W. L. Hart, T. M. Lemly, C.
M. Pratt, H. E. Hall, W. B. McQueen, W. W. Harrison, K. P. Maddox, A. H. Whitehead, J. C. Wall.

Many Hear Paul Whiteman

From the number of faces that formed the audience in the City Auditorium to hear Paul Whiteman and his concert
orchestra could be seen a large number of Davidson boys and Davidson townspeople.

Sigma Upsilon Entertains Initiates

Members of the Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity gathered with the initiates of the fraternity on last Friday night in a
short social hour. Cold refreshments were served. The guests among the faculty included: Dr. Frazer Hood, Prof. E. J. Ewin,
Prof. E. A. Beaty, and Dr. C. K. Brown.

Hallowe’en Party

Miss Bess Sample is entertaining tonight at her home on Concord Road the Christian Endeavor Society of the local church.
This party is one of a number that are held each year. A number of students have been invited.

Chicago is growing nearly twice as fast as New York in spite of stories of profuse machine-gun battles, hold-ups, and
gang warfare in general. Chicago has increased by over 400,000 since 1920, whereas New York has gained only 234,144. But
that gain alone would make a comparatively large city in this section of the country.

First Taxi Man—“I met my wife in a funny way—I ran over ‘er with m’ car an’ later I married
‘er.”
Second Yellow Peril—“If that happened very often there wouldn’t be so much reckless drivin’.”—Old Maid.

Domestic Tri-Comedy

“Ma,” said a Kansas youngster, “there’s a man in the kitchen hugging and kissing the hired girl.”
When his mother started for the kitchen, he shouted: “April fool! It’s only Pa.”—Ex.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Here’s some “inside stuff” on smoking

SOMEWHERE in the neighborhood of your center of gravity there’s a spot devoted to smoke appreciation. We could describe it
more fully, but this is no organ recital. The point is: Light a Camel, pull in a fragrant cloud of
cool joy—and listen to your smoke-spot sing out—“Haleelooya!” As the noble redskin puts it—we have said! © 1928
