THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 9, 1928

|-- Sport Talk -:- News and Views of Wildcat Events By Raymond Lake

So far as home games are concerned, the 1927-28 basketball season is closed. The Wildcats played their last game of the year on the home court last Thursday when they met the team from Lenoir-Rhyne. They leave Friday on the Southern trip and meet the Citadel on Friday night, return from the Southern trip the latter part of next week, stay here for two or three days, and then leave for a trip to the North for three or four days. The season thus far has not been as disastrous as it might have been, but we hope that the results of the games to be played on the trip will be an improvement, nevertheless.

The Wildcats showed better form in their game with Elon last Saturday than they have shown in several games past. McAulay, especially, seemed to be going good, and “found the basket” without much trouble. His two or three fairly long shots near the last of the game gave the Wildcats a lead which cinched the game for them. The boys from Elon had a good team, and at times were in the lead, but the final rally of the Wildcats and their accurate shooting near the end of the game were too much for them. Neuman, one of the forwards for the visitors, was high-point man of the game. He handled the ball well and seemed to be an unusually good player. Captain Wilson ran a close second in the number of points scored with 13 chalked up to his credit. Pritchett scored 10 of the remaining points, and Harrison, though he scored only two points, did some unusually fast and furious floor work and as usual was one of the mainstays.

The Tar Heels from Chapel Hill beat us in football and we didn't get a game with them in basketball, but they were forced to bow to a superior Davidson team Saturday afternoon in the form of the Wildcat grappling team. The Wildcats won four of the seven matches and one of them was a draw, the Tar Heels taking only the 135-pound class match. That the meet was unusually good is evidenced by the fact that all the matches were won on time decisions except the one in the 145-pound class, which was a draw.

By far the outstanding match of the afternoon was the battle in the 145-pound class between Captain Abbott, of the Carolina team, and Captain Garrison, of the Davidson team, the one match which ended in a draw after the extra period had been allowed. Neither of these men had ever been thrown before Saturday’s match, and neither of them had to give up the right to say this at the end of the match. Captain Garrison, however, missed getting a time decision on his opponent by only 11 seconds, the first report that this difference was only one second being false. Sport writers have not deemed wrestling an important enough sport to pick an all-state wrestling team in the past, but should this be done this year, our bet is that the Wildcats would supply the 145-pound man for the team by an almost unanimous vote.

With the close, or near close of the basketball season, interest is beginning to turn toward baseball and track. The track and baseball stars and others who hope to be stars in the future will be starting their workouts in a few days, and the athletic field which has been rather dead except for spring football and an occasional campus football game since last fall, will again become the center of interest on the campus during the afternoons. The pitchers will begin their workouts in a few days and then it won't be long till the whole team will be out and rounding into shape for its first game on March 23rd.

Our Great January Clearance of Suits and Overcoats now in progress - MELLON’S. Charlotte, N. C.

Davidson Grapplers to Invade Va. Next Week Will Meet V. M. I. and Washington and Lee

Captain Jeff Garrison and his wrestling team who emerged victorious over the University of North Carolina matmen last Saturday will invade the state of Virginia next week where they will meet V. M. I. and Washington and Lee in Lexington. The team will leave Davidson early next Friday morning and will arrive in Lexington that afternoon in time for a workout. The following night the team wrestles V. M. I. On Monday night, February 13, the Wildcats will meet Washington and Lee and will probably return to Davidson Tuesday afternoon. The meet with William and Mary has been canceled because Davidson would not agree to go to Williamsburg for a return match next year. The Wildcat matmen will meet strong opposition at V. M. I. since the cadets held William and Mary scoreless in a recent match. V. M. I. have good men in the lightweight, the 135-pound, and in the heavyweight classes. The same men who wrestled against Carolina will probably be used against V. M. I. and W. and L. The weights are as follows: 115th class, Flythe; 125th class, Brown; 135th class, Herriot; 145th class, Garrison; 158th class, Christenbury or Brohard; 175th class, Tom Hill; unlimited, Baker.

The meet against Carolina was a close one, practically every match going to an extra period. Every man had to fight hard for the advantage. Flythe, Brown, Christenbury, and Hill won their matches while Garrison tied with his opponent. The final score was: Davidson 13 1-2, Carolina 7 1-2.

The Wildcat Quintet Leaves Tomorrow on Southern Trip to Play Five Games First Game to be With the Citadel

PLAY FIVE GAMES College of Charleston, Clemson, Furman, and Wofford Will Also be Met

Captain Ben Wilson and his Wildcat basketeers leave tomorrow afternoon for an extended trip through South Carolina. They will travel through the country in automobiles instead of going by train as usual. On this trip, the Wildcats will play The Citadel, College of Charleston, Clemson, Furman, and Wofford. On Saturday night, February 11, the team willPlay the basketball team from The Citadel. Last year, on the trip through South Carolina, The Citadel was played twice, and Davidson lost both games by narrow margins. Both teams have lost several regulars from last year, and it is certain that the affair will be keenly contested from start to finish. The Citadel has already made quite a name for itself this year by defeating the fast Furman team by a score of 41-32. The team will spend the weekend in Charleston, and will play the College of Charleston on Monday, February 13. Last year when the College of Charleston was played, the Wildcats defeated them by a decisive score. From Charleston, the Wildcats journey to Clemson College, where they take on the ferocious Tiger in his home lair. The Clemson team is somewhat an unknown quantity, since they have not been played by Davidson in several years. Judging from their record so far this year, however, Captain Wilson's charges will have to play heads-up ball to defeat them. On Thursday night, February 16, the Davidson basketeers will play the Furman Purple Hurricane in Greenville. Furman has not been played in several years, but they always put out an A-1 basketball team. Coach “Monk” however, knows a thing or two about Purple Hurricanes, and it is hoped that his charges will turn the Hurricane into a gentle breeze. From Greenville, a jump will be made to Spartanburg where the Wildcat basket team plays the Wofford Terriers. More is known about this team than the others to be played since Wofford was played at Davidson recently. Although the Wildcats defeated Wofford, considerable respect will have to be shown to the shooting ability of the members of the team, since it will be remembered that they have several dangerous shots on the team.

Davidson Freshmen Defeat Barium Team

In a very exciting match held at the gymnasium Monday night, the grapplers from Barium Springs bowed in defeat to the Davidson Freshmen team. The visitors, taking an early lead, won two of the first three matches by falls. But the Freshmen, showing a reversal of form, came back strong with the fourth bout, and forged ahead to win by a 16 to 10 score. The feature match of the evening, in the 145-pound class, was between Estridge of Davidson and Murrel of Barium. Peculiar interest was exhibited as to the outcome of the match. The Davidson boy, throwing his opponent with lightning speed, won his match by a thrilling fall in 15 seconds. Two of the matches resulting in time decisions were both won by Davidson. Below is given a tabulation of the bouts:

118 lb class—Donaldson (B. S.) won by a fall over MacKethan (D)
125 lb class—Preston (D) won on time over King (B. S.)
135 lb class—Brown (B. S.) won over Doduck (D) by a fall.
145 lb class—Estridge (D) threw Murrell (B. S.)
158 lb class—Umphlet (D) threw Procter (B. S.)
175 lb class—Covington (D) won on time over Lee (B. S.)

Final score: Davidson Freshmen 16; Barium Springs 10.

Wildkittens Elect Baseball Captain

Goodson, running guard of the Wildkitten basketball five, has been chosen to captain the team for the present season. Goodson hails from Lincolnton. He has played very consistent basketball so far and seems to be one of the real stars of the team. Goodson is tall and lanky, very fast on his feet, and an excellent shot under the basket. His playing in the Oak Ridge game was of the highest type, and he gives great promise as varsity material. Dean Rusk and Goodson were in the running for the captaincy at the election held last Monday afternoon. The first ballot resulted in a tie, but Goodson finally won out by a close margin. Captain Goodson leads his basketeers against the Statesville Athletic Club early this week, and then the team hits the road for a trip through the state.

Who is the Most Popular Boy On the Campus?

The White Drug Co. is Going to Try to Decide This

Below is a blank. Fill in the blank with your preference and drop in the ballot box at The “DRUG STORE.” The winner will be announced Friday, Feb. 17, and he will be presented with a five-pound box of candy. Choose your man.

FRESH WRESTLERS DOWN SQUAD OF REYNOLDS HIGH

Wildkittens Win by Score of 17 to 11

In the wrestling match between the Richard J. Reynolds High School team, of Winston-Salem, and the Davidson Freshmen, last Wednesday, February 1, the final score was 17-11, with the big side for Davidson. Seven men wrestled for Davidson. Preston, McKeethan, and Boyles won their matches on a fall in each case. Umphlet won his match with Plaster on time. Doduck lost his match on a fall, and Estridge and Covington lost their matches on time. Three of the matches went to an extra period and Estridge was beaten only by the extra time of fifteen seconds, in his match with Sprinkle. However, the fact that the Davidson team showed good form all the way through is shown from both the final score and the fact that the extra period was added in three matches. The Winston team is one with quite a reputation among the high school teams of the state and is noted for doing good work in matches with college fresh teams. In their match with the Carolina freshmen, the Carolina team hardly could hold them down to the narrow score that resulted. It was the second match for the Davidson team and they are reported by spectators to have increased in ability and form at a splendid rate since the first match of the season with Barium Springs.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Charlotte, N. C.

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs. 4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Government. Make us your Executor. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
I. W. STEWART, Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. DOAR, Cashier
A. T. SUMMEY, Assistant Cashier

Founded 1874