November 22, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN

FIGHT ’EM WILDCATS -- WE ARE WITH YOU!

CAT TRAX As They Follow the Red and Black By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Well, it is all over now, and there’s no use talking about what might have happened had the Wildcats been
able to control Carolina’s passes. The truth is that Davidson was overpowered by sheer reserve strength and not by more
fight or anything like that. That same old weakness in breaking up passes ruined the ‘Cats, though, any way you
look at it.

We will always remember that glorious first half. Never have we seen a team play more magnificently against tremendous odds
than did the Wildcats, and never have we seen a more perfect offensive than the one which netted Davidson’s touchdown.
Right along with the team played the students, alumni, faculty, janitors, and everybody concerned for Davidson. It was a shouting,
wildly enthusiastic throng that watched the ‘Cats do battle to their superior foes. It took Carolina just exactly five drives
to get their first score. Those ‘Cats literally hurled them back from the goal. It was hard to lose by
such a score after such a great scrap, but Davidson looked about the best in such a defeat that any
team could have looked. It was really a case of about 15 Davidson men playing 30 Tar Heels, one as
good as another. Carolina has the stuff for a much greater team than she has, in our humble opinion.

Thad Brock snatched passes in miraculous fashion, and his hard defensive game cut down many potential scores for the visitors.
Bob Kell, as is his custom these days, ran and passed in approved style, and the Mississippi lad was responsible
for most of the local gains. It looks as if Mr. Walter Fraley is trying to help the plaster cast
manufacturers, judging from the way this little gentleman was busting them Saturday. Piggy Harper came through with his best year
as he knifed through on numerous occasions to stop the Tar Heel backs in their tracks. In spite of close
observance, we did not notice much brilliance on the part of Carolina’s luminary, Harry Schwartz. To be sure he got
his part of the tackles, but his running mate, Ray Farris, far outshone him. Farris was hitting them on every
other play. His fine work held the Wildcats in check many, many times.

The Wildcats are bending every effort to climax the season with a win over Duke. We keep on feeling that
they are due to spill somebody around here, so it stands to reason that it must be Duke. Sam Buie
and his passes are going to prove another thorn in the side, but they can be stopped. That Thanksgiving Day
crowd at Durham is going to see a battle that they will remember a long time. We would pick the
Blue Devils to whip Carolina and cop the championship if it were not for Carolina’s 35-year winning streak over the
Methodists. That streak seems to be an eternal jinx to the Duke boys. It is hard to dope.

The Wildkittens are venturing into the mountains this weekend, with the intention of bringing back something more than moonshine and
bad colds. They should beat Asheville High without very much trouble. It seems to us that five games a year
is too few for the yearlings. Seven or eight would give some much-needed training.

Two letter men out for basketball. Such is the fact which faces Younger as the cage season draws on. Pritchett
and Calhoun are the experienced troopers, and their ranks will have to be greatly augmented before a winning combination can
be placed on the floor. Quite a bit of promising material is in sight from last year’s frosh team and
from the present class fives.

“Girls were harder to kiss in your day, weren't they, grandpa?” “Mebbe, mebbe,” ventured the old gentleman, “but it wasn’t
so blame dangerous. The old parlor sofa wouldn't smash into a tree about that time.” —The Beacon.

Wildcats Journey To Duke Lair For Turkey Day Clash

DeHart’s Blue Devils to Furnish Tough Opposition in Holiday Game at Durham

FINAL CONTEST

Buie and Jankoskie in Great Shape With Passes and Plunges Crowd Expected

The Davidson Wildcats will journey to Durham Thanksgiving to meet the powerful Blue Devil eleven in the annual turkey day
classic between the two schools. Both teams have shown a newfound prowess in the last few contests, and with the
Carolina-Virginia game played at Charlottesville, the Durham game will be the big attraction for hundreds of holiday grid fans who
will find their way there from all over the state.

The Methodist outfit, after being shot with injuries all of the season, has finally come into its own. Last Saturday
they met and defeated the powerful North Carolina State team by a 14 to 12 count. The great Jankoskie has
been on the injured list rather consistently this season, but he now seems to have snapped back into great shape.
He was in the form that made him one of the outstanding players of the 1927 season, and last Saturday
was a constant terror to the State defense. Nevertheless, Jankoskie is only one of many such artists to be found
on the Duke outfit. The phenomenal playing of Sam Buie on Richardson Field last year was something not soon to
be forgotten here, and his “educated toe” virtually won the State game. Godfrey and Murray, in the Blue Devil backfield,
have come through with brilliant runs and plunges against all opposition this year and might also be included in the
stellar division.

For the Wildcats, the game will be the last of the season, and for the seven seniors, it will mark
their last appearance in the ‘Cat role. This is a fact that will make going a little rougher for Duke
over in the Bull City, and the fact that their opponents are credited with having outplayed and out-plunged the Navy
will bother Youngster’s eleven little, as they strive to place the season's final in the win column.

The scores of the games between the two institutions for the past four years are:

Davidson Year Duke
0 1924 13
0 1925 0
0 1926 40
0 1927 13

TAR HEELS DEFEAT ’CATS (Continued from page 1)

It is hard to pick stars, but the work of Kell, Brock, and David was probably the most outstanding for
Davidson, while Schwartz, Farris, and Sapp were outstanding for Carolina.

Heels Run Wild

Carolina (30) Position Davidson (7)
Sweeter Left End Brock
Leftwich Left Tackle Harper
Schwartz (c) Center R. McConnell
Smith Right Guard Baker (c)
Middleton Right End Holts
Kell QuarterbackWatson Left Halfback
Nash Right Halfback
Brohard Fullback
Fraley Score by periods: Carolina (6) 0 8 18—32; Davidson 0 7 0 0—7
Scoring touchdowns: Carolina—Ward, Nash, Holt, Erickson, Jackson. Davidson—Brock. Point after touchdown, Brock (placekick). Substitutes, Carolina: Adkins, Erickson, Whisnant, Ford, Magner,
Spaulding, Gray, Blockwood, Hudson, Warren, Donohue. Davidson: Black, DeCamp, Mills, T. McConnell, Archie, McCall, Goodykoontz, McMillan, Estridge, Mason, David, Parrish.
Officials: Referee, Brice (Auburn); umpire, Major (Auburn); head linesman, “Buck” Flowers (Georgia Tech); field judge, Kirkpatrick (N. C. State). Statistics:
First downs, Carolina 19, Davidson 6. Penalties, Carolina 35 yards, Davidson 5 yards. Passes attempted, Carolina 27, Davidson 12; passes
completed, Carolina 12, Davidson 5; passes intercepted by Carolina 3. Ground gained from passes, Carolina 193 yards, Davidson 34 yards.
Ground gained through line, Carolina 263 yards, Davidson 49 yards. Average distance of kick-offs and punts, Carolina 35 yards, Davidson
38 yards. Yardage gained through returned kick-offs and punts, Carolina 59 yards, Davidson 59 yards. Opponent’s fumbles recovered, Carolina one,
Davidson one. Fumbles, Carolina one, Davidson one.

Soph Pivot Man
Bill Mason, Belmont boy, is seeing much service this fall, and will be a mainstay on the varsity next season.

Cat Trax Dope
As one of the most thrilling seasons in years draws to a close, there are many undefeated teams which meet
each other in the next few games. This Saturday, many of the important teams are resting for games on Thanksgiving,
which may mean much to them. Among Davidson's opponents, only three teams have games for Saturday. Wofford meets The Citadel
at Spartanburg; North Carolina State goes to Lansing, Mich., for an inter-sectional game with Michigan State, which will probably decide
the South Carolina championship. Clemson prepares for the game. THE DAVIDSONIAN picks them as follows: WOFFORD over The Citadel. MICHIGAN
STATE over North Carolina State. ARMY over Nebraska. NORTHWESTERN over Dartmouth. YALE over Harvard. PRINCETON over Navy. TULANE over Louisiana
College. VANDERBILT over Centre.

Varsity Basketeers Swing Into Action For Season’s Grind
Eighteen Men Respond to Younger's Initial Call With Only Two Letter Men Present

PRELIMINARY TRIALS
Setting-up Exercises and Light Shooting Practice Constitute Early Season Workout

Led by Captain Carl Pritchett, the varsity basketeers held their first practice of the season on Monday afternoon, November 19.
Only 18 men were called by Coach Monk Younger for the first few practices which will consist mainly of body-building
exercises and instructions in the fundamentals of the game. A general call will be issued after Thanksgiving. The initial workout
was short and snappy, being devoted principally to exercises for limbering up the muscles. After an hour of calisthenics, the
remainder of the afternoon was spent in passing and shooting in order to get used to the ball. Very little
can be said of the prospects of developing a winning team at this time because only two letter men are
back, Pritchett and Calhoun. Several of last year's scrubs should go good this year and the freshman team of last
season has a number of promising players who should do something before the year is over. The following men reported
Monday afternoon: Pritchett, R. Calhoun, A. Calhoun, Wilson, Crawford, Baker, Shepard, Kugler, Smith, McGavock, Heefner, Goodson, Johnson, Hood, Miller, Moore,
and Gilmour.

Overman, Substitute Guard
Charlie Parker, after experience gained from this year’s play, should bolster Tex’s line for '29.

Wildcat Golf Team Wins Over Faculty
The Davidson golf team won the second match of a series of faculty-student matches last Thursday when they defeated faculty
players by a composite score of 16-3. Captain A. L. Mills, of the student team, turned in an 80 card
for the 18 holes as the low score man of the day. The success of the pair of matches already
staged makes the future meeting of the two teams a certainty. The third match will probably be played at an
early date. On Thursday, the 22nd, the Davidson golfers are to meet the Gastonia Country Club team on the Gastonia
course. They are to be the club's guests at dinner, and the 18-hole matches are to be staged later in
the afternoon.

WANTED—A COLLEGE HEAVY!
“Stand up, you young fellows there, you can make a million in no time,” says Grover Theis in his article,
“Knockouts From the Colleges,” in the December College Humor. “With the retirement of Gene Tunney, Tex Rickard is looking for
a real heavyweight champion—maybe from the colleges. “Boxing in the colleges has enjoyed an exceptional expansion in the past few
years and is going to make even more rapid advances. In the East there annually is an intercollegiate tournament; similar
events are conducted by the conferences throughout the country. Colleges are drawing students from constantly widening walks of life, so
that Rickard may still find a diploma-bedecked contender in his ring wearing the colors of his Alma Mater. Since Christy
Mathewson more of our baseball players have come from the colleges. Will history repeat itself in boxing?”

Wildkittens Meet Asheville Highs
Miles’ Squad Ready for Closing Game

Tomorrow afternoon the Wildkittens will play their last game of the season against Asheville High School, in Asheville. The “Kittens”
have broken even with their opponents so far, winning two games and losing two. Friday's game, however, will break the
deadlock. Asheville High has put out some excellent teams during the past several years and has always been a strong
contender for state championship honors in high school football. This year’s team has made an excellent record for itself, as
it has won from several strong contenders in the championship race. Only last week the Asheville eleven downed the strong
Charlotte High team. Coach Miles has his team in fine shape for the contest and everything points to a good
game. Twenty-two men are scheduled to make the trip. The probable line-up is as follows: Ends—Brown and Miller. Tackles—Baker and
Scales. Guards—Arnold and Mathis. Center—Hudgins. Quarterback—Goodson. Halves—Bradshaw and Bradshaw. Fullback—King.

Frank and Ernest By BRIGGS
“Stand up, you young fellows there, you can make a million in no time,” says Grover Theis in his article,
“Knockouts From the Colleges,” in the December College Humor. “With the retirement of Gene Tunney, Tex Rickard is looking for
a real heavyweight champion—maybe from the colleges. “Boxing in the colleges has enjoyed an exceptional expansion in the past few
years and is going to make even more rapid advances. In the East there annually is an intercollegiate tournament; similar
events are conducted by the conferences throughout the country. Colleges are drawing students from constantly widening walks of life, so
that Rickard may still find a diploma-bedecked contender in his ring wearing the colors of his Alma Mater. Since Christy
Mathewson more of our baseball players have come from the colleges. Will history repeat itself in boxing?”
