6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 4, 1928

Great Progress Shown in Military Training Since First Established Here

That the study of war and wars, military tactics and conduct, is an increasingly popular subject as taught in American
colleges and universities, is evidenced by the speed with which courses on military matters have sprung into the curricula of
the nation’s educational institutions. The year 1918 saw the birth of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, which organization has a
unit in three hundred and twenty-two of our colleges today.

Military tactics were not, however, first introduced into Davidson College with the advent of the R.O.T.C. unit here. In the
winter of 1854, a group of boys interested along such lines petitioned and received permission from the faculty to have
a company organized here for the purpose of edification and the giving of experience to those men who might in
time of war be called upon to defend the land. This company, which was in no way connected with the
Government, was not much of a success and lived for but two years.

Then came the time when the people in Washington thought it a good thing to encourage any instruction along military
lines. Accordingly, Congress made it a rule that all land grant institutions teach one course in military tactics for which
the college was to be remunerated. Lieutenant-Colonel Mueller was the first P.M.S. and T. to be posted at Davidson, which
was after the war and the new R.O.T.C. had replaced the Student Auxiliary Training Corps, which was the first of
the government-controlled details for teaching tactics in colleges and universities. Captain P.G. Hearn was the next officer in command of
the Davidson unit, and Captain Weems, who was in command last year and is now at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, was
the last. Captain Dougherty, the present very able Commandant, will be succeeded by Captain William R. Scott, who is to
be here next fall at the opening of the session.

During the past four years, between one hundred and one hundred and fifty men taking the advanced course in R.O.T.C.
have graduated here, no one of whom has gone into the Army.

Disqualified

“Would you accept a job as a prohibition agent?”
“No,” answered Uncle Bill Bottletop. “I have become a teetotaler myself, so I couldn’t honestly promise to be of service
in getting evidence against anybody.” — Washington Star.

Local Officers Have Varied Experiences

Captain John W. Elkin first came to Davidson in the fall of 1926 from Fort Benning, where he had just
completed a course in military training. Captain Elkin is a native of South Carolina, where he attended Wofford College. He
served in the Navy during 1906-10, leaving this branch in 1910, he married. Re-entering the service in 1917, he joined
the infantry. This time he was sent to France and participated in about seven engagements, among them being the St.
Mihiel offensive and the Meuse-Argonne struggles. He was stationed at Fort Benning in 1921, and from there came here.

Captain John A. Otto is a Texan and a graduate of Texas A. & M. College. Captain Otto entered the
service in 1917 with a commission of second lieutenant; later he was promoted to first lieutenant. Since coming to Davidson,
he has received his commission as captain. Like Lieutenant Beckett, he served on the Mexican border during 1917. In 1924,
he was sent to Porto Rico, where he remained for two years. After leaving Porto Rico, Captain Otto took a
course in the Company Officers’ Course, finished it in 1927, and then came to Davidson this fall. Since here, he
has been in charge of the instruction of the Advanced Course men.

Lieutenant Robert C. Beckett was born in New Mexico, where he went to New Mexico Military Institute. After leaving there,
he went to the Mexican border and was engaged in patrol work during that time. In 1918, Lieutenant Beckett received
his commission from the regular army. In 1922, he was ordered to the Philippines, where he remained until he came
to Davidson in 1924. Since then, he has been in charge of the majority of the freshmen classes.

The First Shall be Last

Miss Gusher—“I think your new novel has a beautiful ending, Mr. Scribbler.”
Scribbler—“How do you like the opening chapters?”
Miss Gusher—“Oh, I haven’t come to those yet.”—Boston Transcript.

What Dad Knows

“Sir, I have proposed to your daughter.”
“Well?”
“And she refers me to you.”
“Then your case is hopeless.”—Louisville Courier-Journal.

Charlotte, N.C. banking needs.

Government.

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

The Commercial National Bank

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your 4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Trust
Department under supervision of United States Make us your Executor. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS

FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
Founded 1874
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

The ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA

ANDREW’S
213 N. Tryon St.

The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000Models in Stock—Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
MUSIC STORE

While in France he participated, Major William R. Scott to be New Head of War Department at Davidson
Transferred from Fort Leavenworth to Local Post
SUCCEEDS CAPT. DAUGHERTY
Graduate of West Point Takes Charge of Work of Battalion Next September

Maj. William R. Scott has been transferred by the War Department from Fort Leavenworth to Davidson where he will succeed
Capt. R. D. Daugherty as professor of military science and tactics beginning next September. Major Scott has just completed a
course in the Staff and Command School for Officers at the Kansas school and will arrive in Davidson the latter
part of August to take over his duties as head of the local staff of army officers with the opening
of the next college year.

The new commandant is a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, having completed his training there
in 1904. From the rank of lieutenant, Major Scott advanced steadily, gaining the commission of a lieutenant-colonel before the end
of the war period but reverted to major with the general shifting of officers’ ratings. Major Scott is a native
of Indianapolis, Ind., having been born there in 1881. His family consists of a wife and three children who will
accompany him here this fall.

Cadets Act as Hosts
(Continued from page 1)

Cadet Capt. P. J. Garrison is first sergeant of this company, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, captain of the
wrestling team, fills a position on the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet and has been active in all lines of
college activity. Cadet Captain Julian Lake holds positions on the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet and Board of Control. He
made an enviable record at Camp Perry the past summer and the instruction of the rifle team is entrusted to
him. Lake belongs to the Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Cadet Capt. M. C. O’Neal, in addition to having won his letter in track, has been honored by Omicron Delta
Kappa and Alpha Phi Epsilon. On the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet he has an important place and he is
a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. Cadet Captain and Adjutant J. M. Akers was recently elected to Phi
Beta Kappa. He holds membership in the International Relations Club and belongs to Pi Kappa Alpha.

Cadet Capt. R. S. Link is manager of baseball and is conspicuous in other activities. He is a member of
Delta Theta Chi. Cadet First Lieut. J. M. Gudger has fired on the rifle team for four years and this
year it was captained by him. Cadet First Lieut. R. S. Lowrance belongs to the Glee Club, the Orchestra, the
Biology Club, and the Music Fraternity, of which he is secretary. Cadet First Lieut. P. W. Walton has been outstanding
on the campus in many ways.

The National Convention of Scabbard and Blade will be held at Columbus, Ohio, on April 26th, 27th, and 28th. More
than 70 companies will be represented and Ohio State University will be host to the convention. Howard B. Arbuckle has
been selected to represent B Company, 5th Regiment, with Charles C. Trabue as alternate.

The purpose of Scabbard and Blade is primarily to raise the standard of military drill in American colleges and universities;
to unite in closer relationship their military departments; to encourage and foster the essential qualities of good and efficient officers,
and to promote intimacy and good fellowship among the cadet officers. Further, the society tends to disseminate military education among
the students and among the people of the country in general. With the growth in size and influence of this
society, the old proverbial hatred of military drill—the regarding it as a necessary evil—is dying away, and the students of
universities are beginning to realize that the military service should be performed willingly, cheerfully, and wholeheartedly.

Since 1915 the War Department has delegated one of the United States Army to attend the National Convention and to
make an official report of the proceedings to the War Department. It is expected that this plan will continue, and
that through the cooperation of the War Department and Scabbard and Blade the efficiency of the military departments in colleges
and universities will be appreciably increased.

Same Thing
Jennie—“Dick didn’t blow out his brains when you rejected him. He came around and proposed to me.”
Jeannette—“Then he must have gotten rid of them some other way.”—London Tit-Bits.

She Knows by Experience
First actress—“Yes, when I came out the audience simply sat there open-mouthed.”
Second actress—“Oh, nonsense. They never yawn all at once.”—Ohio State Sun Dial.

A Finer Easter
At Easter one’s finest thoughts are aroused—apathy is challenged—a desire to express one’s finer self is awakened into glorious activity.
How better can you, with your natural and inherent love for fine things, convey your nobler sentiments to friends and
loved ones than with “Unusual Candies?” Sold by America's finer drug stores.

AUGUSTA, GA.
WHITE DRUG CO.
