THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 23, 1928 No. 20

Business as a Vocation is Discussed in Address by H. Smith Richardson
Industry Should Strive Toward Upbuilding of Nation
FORETELLS GREAT PROGRESS
Executive Head of Vick Chemical Co., Says Business Has Supplanted Land as Basis of Wealth

“North Carolina's great need today is for business executives and for captains of industry,” declared H. Smith Richardson, outstanding Southern
capitalist and executive head of the Vick Chemical Company, of Greensboro, in a stirring address to Davidson students last night,
on the subject of business as a life work. Mr. Richardson was the second speaker on the program of the
six weeks’ Vocational Guidance Institute being conducted here for the benefit of students who are making an effort to choose
their vocations.

“The Piedmont Carolinas are just beginning to be developed industrially,” he added. “In the next 50 years progress will be
greater than that made during all of the past 200 years. Who will control this industry? If you don’t, others
will. There is a need here which challenges youth with keen minds and stout hearts. An empire of industry is
going to rise in the land—who will possess it? If there is anything in this prophecy which stirs your blood,
if you would do your part toward building a great state, then I say to you, take the cultural education
here in these classic halls, then go out into the world. Don’t simply look for a ‘job,’ but cut yourself
off a province of industry—master that province, conserve your capital, initiate your own business—build, and if you build wisely, you
will succeed.”

(Continued on page 8)

PLANS FOR FRATERNITY COURT

After three years of having houses located in town, the Board of Trustees recently accepted plans submitted by M. E.
Boyer, Jr., architect, of Charlotte, calling for construction according to the above sketch with the cost being approximately $60,000. The
location chosen by the trustees was that at the intersection of Concord Street and Stadium Road.

Second Issue of Chameleon Shifts Outward Colors

Local Critic Reviews and Offers Opinion on Recent Student Literary Offerings

The current issue of the CHAMELEON is another case of old wine in almost new bottles. In exemplifying one old
adage, it disproves another, for the wine has not improved with this aging. The fact remains but the pleasant theory
is split in twain. However, with all this imposing upon new and partially new backgrounds, there appear a few tastes
of real excellent stuff—just the kind that attracts a finical person. I found myself rereading several times Frank Hall’s SONG
SWAMPS. It is truly a refreshing breeze which this Junior has sent our way. Hall has been experimenting for some
time on sounds and euphonic phrases and this, to my mind, is his first successful attempt in shaking off the
shackles of Sophomore English. He is singing the low melodious song of the animated lowlands, and withal he has injected
the necessary sprightliness into his work.

I have praised Hall’s piece without fear of criticism for campus opinion has already stamped him with approval, but no
doubt, there are only a few who would choose Editor Wharton’s THERE WERE SIX GIRLS as one of the best
offerings of the magazine. I have long envied Wharton his ability to set down upon paper—prosaic cold paper—thoughts and mental
reactions—the very thing he has so admirably done in this piece. Some ask “What about the girls,” but I want
to know what that has to do with the matter. Absolutely nothing, of course.

(Continued on page 8)

Request on Close Acceded by Board

That the school term would end May 30, as stated in the catalogue, was the ruling passed by the Board
of Trustees meeting here last week. The catalogue which was published last spring announced that the school year would open
September 7, and close May 30. At a recent faculty meeting attention was called to the fact that the Board
of Trustees for many years past has required the commencement exercises to be held the first Wednesday in June. Changes
were accordingly made and notice was published by the Davidsonian that the term would not end until June 5, thereby
adding one week to the usual school year. Many members of the Senior Class, however, had previously made engagements, many
of them for lifetime work, beginning immediately after the date announced in the catalogue. They therefore filed a petition that
they be released at the stated time, and the Board, in accordance with its policy of aiding the students in
any reasonable way possible, changed the date of graduation. This means that examinations will be over Saturday, May 26, the
baccalaureate sermon coming on the following day; class exercises held on Monday, May 28;

(Continued on page 5)

NOTED PREACHER HERE

Dr. Luther Little, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Charlotte, author of “Manse Dwellers,” and one of the most
distinguished ministers in the South, will conduct a Personal Work Conference among the students Monday and Tuesday next. He will
meet with the different groups interested in personal work during these days, and Tuesday night there will be an open
meeting in the “Y” rooms for all interested.

Mid-Winter Meeting of Fraternities Moved to Lot on Concord Street
Construction to Amount of $60,000 Called for
LOCATION ON CONCORD

Best Interests of College and Fraternity Life Considered in Move, State Officials

Prompted by desire to college and fraternity life in such a manner as to emphasize the ideals and traditions of
the two, the Board of Trustees of the college at its recent meeting

Oxford Honors to be Awarded in Dec.

The 1928 election of Rhodes Scholars will be held on December 8, and students of this college must file their
applications with the Secretary of the State Committee of Selection before October 20, according toFrank Aydelotte, Secretary to the College
Governing Body, Authorizes Innovations

Contract to be Let for Central Section of Chambers

TREASURER MAKES REPORT

Summer School Planned — Fraternity Court Idea Accepted — Compulsory Physical Training for Juniors and Seniors

In what proved to be one of the busiest sessions in the past several years, Davidson's Board of Trustees authorized
the signing of contracts for the remainder of Chambers Building, a regular Summer School, construction of Fraternity Court, made changes
as to membership of the Board, called for an instructor in physical training and compulsory physical exercise for juniors and
seniors not taking R.O.T.C., and considered other matters last Wednesday.

The most notable transaction was the authorization given to the building committee to let the contract for the central unit
of Chambers building. The work on the northern wing is already underway and the committee in charge expects to complete
arrangements for the beginning of construction of the main section within the next few weeks. The completion of this $500,000
plant is expected by 1930, and will give Davidson one of the finest academic buildings in the South.

A Summer six weeks’ School was authorized by the Board, with courses in English, Bible, economics, mathematics, history, education, languages,
and sciences. A sub-committee was appointed to complete detailed arrangements for this school. Several minor changes were made in (Continued
on page 5)

Bishop Penick Presents Vivid Picture of Christ

Thought of Christ as Creator, Sustainer or Judge Insufficient, Says Prominent Episcopalian

“What think ye of Christ?” (Matthew 22:42), was the text of Bishop I. A. Penick’s message to the members of
the Davidson Y.M.C.A. Sunday evening in vespers at Shearer Hall. Bishop Penick is head of the North Carolina diocese of
the Episcopal Church. The speaker was introduced by Professor Williams. In brief, his message was as follows:

We must select from the great mass of doctrine the central thoughts and themes, or we will find that we
are like children on the seashore who are bewildered as to which of the beautiful shells are most desirable, or
as a Freshman entering college who cannot decide what course will be most beneficial to him in future life. Now
we must take up the subject of moral codes. This subject is too short to master all, so the question
that we must determine is: What shall we emphasize? Limiting emphasis to mere self-culture will result in selfishness.

Service without religion is superficial. Spirituality can easily degenerate into mysticism. Believing in only one set of truths will result
in bigotry. There is a danger that we may leave out truth in forming a condensed analysis of the point
of emphasis for the Christian life. Christianity is the life of God revealed by Jesus Christ. We take the assumption
that God is love. If we should merely think of God as the Creator, He would be awe-inspiring but He
would not cause us to kneel in worship. Neither would the thought of God as our Sustainer or Judge really
demand our deepest love. We must think of God as (Continued on page 5)

Rhodes Scholarship

A Rhodes scholarship, the most coveted of all undergraduate awards, entitles the holder to three years of study at Oxford
University, with an annual stipend of £400 ($2,000). Scholars are elected without examination on the basis of their records in
school and college, and no restriction is placed upon their choice of studies.

To be eligible, a candidate must be an unmarried male citizen of the United States, between the ages of 19
and 25. He must have completed at least his sophomore year in college before the time he goes to Oxford.
The men chosen to represent this institution in the competition, selected on December 8, 1928, will go to Oxford in
October, 1929.

The qualities which will be considered in making the selection are literary and scholastic ability and attainments, qualities of manhood,
truth, courage, and moral force of character, and physical vigor as shown in outdoor sports or other ways. Exceptional athletic
prowess is not essential to election.

These scholarships were created by the will of Cecil Rhodes, the famous South African statesman and capitalist, who died in
1902. “I also desire to encourage and foster an appreciation of the advantages which I implicitly believe will result from
the union of the English-speaking peoples throughout the world, and to encourage in the students from the United States ...
an attachment to the country from which (Continued on page 8)

Fraternity Court

The Board of Trustees voted to set aside a portion of the college campus as a site for a unique
fraternity court. The construction of the court will cost the college approximately $50,000 and will be at the intersection of
Concord Street and the Stadium Road. Eleven fraternity houses and a central heating plant will compose the group of buildings
which, it is believed, will place the fraternities in an unparalleled position among fraternities of American colleges and universities.

This move will place the social organizations back on the campus as they were several years ago when the social
fraternities were located in historic old Oak and Elm Rows, which, it will be recalled, made a fine impression upon
Dr. Shepardson, one of the United States’ foremost fraternity leaders and educators, when he first visited the campus several years
ago.

The officials and trustees of the college have emphatically denied that the new fraternity-court idea was approved in a spirit
of hostility toward the fraternities, and insist that the real motive behind the undertaking is one of friendliness for the
fraternity groups. “It is regretted that certain newspaper articles, which appeared following the adoption of the plan by our Board
of (Continued on page 8)
