THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 16, 1928

Twelve Men Enter Fresh Oratoricals

Preliminaries for the Freshmen Oratorical Contest will be held on March 6, and so far about twelve have signified their desire to participate. It is expected that this number, however, will increase as the date for the tryouts approaches. According to Henry Powell, President of the Forensic Council, the speakers will be allowed to select their own subject, and the time will be limited from seven to ten minutes. The judges have not been selected as yet, but will be announced at a later date. Of the contestants in the preliminaries, five speakers will be selected for the finals, which will be about the first of April. The winner will be presented with a medal given by the Forensic Council. This is one of the highest honors of the Freshman class, and keen competition is expected.

The Oratorical Contest has no connection with the Freshman Declamation Contest, sponsored by the literary societies and open only to society members. The former is an added feature to the Forensic activities of the college, and all Freshmen are eligible. This is the first year of the Oratorical Contest, and its success this year will determine whether it will be an annual event.

Much interest has been shown in previous years among members of the Freshman class in forensic activities. Last year there was keen rivalry in the Declamation Contest, won by Hugh White of the Philanthropic Society. In the tryouts for the debate with Carolina, some 24 freshmen participated. Several of these have already made the varsity squad this year. The Oratorical Contest is hoped to further stimulate interest in forensic work, and bring to the front speakers of ability in the Freshman class.

“It’s the little things that tell,” said the girl as she dragged her kid brother from under the sofa.

‘Y’ by Local Ladies

All of the ladies of the town joined together last Friday afternoon in giving a shower to the local Y. M. C. A. of articles to be used as equipment in the Y rooms. This shower was given somewhat at the suggestion of Mrs. Martin, and a great number of the ladies united heartily in the plan. The Y. M. C. A. board of control and the Y cabinet acted as recipients of the generous gifts. The shower was held between four and five o’clock in the afternoon, and during this time the ladies called and presented their gifts. Tea was served to all attending. The presents brought were many and varied, there being cups, saucers, spoons, kettles, pots, pans, and many others. A gift of money was also made. These articles will be used for any parties that may be given by the students, for receptions given by the Y, and especially during the Vocational Guidance Institute now in progress.

Although the baseball season has not really begun, several members of the team have been working out for the last few days. It seems as if practice will have to be put off a while longer, however, on account of the weather conditions. The groundhog evidently told the truth when he signified that there were still six more weeks of bad weather in store for us by going back into his hole when he came out to look things over on the second. Although it is not necessary, it would help the athletic department quite a bit in their first encounters if the baseball and track candidates could begin practice without delay.

Victory From W. and L.

In the second and concluding match of the Virginia invasion, the Wildcat grapplers gained a decisive victory over Washington and Lee Monday night with a 17-8 score. This match followed the close match with V. M. I. which Davidson lost Saturday night by a narrow margin, the score being 13 1-2-9 1-2. Davidson's victories over W. and L. came in the 115, 125, 135, 145, and 175-pound events with all except the 135-pound match being falls. The winners of these engagements were Flythe, Brown, Herriott, Captain Garrison, and Hill respectively. Herriott’s victory over Davis came after 1:47 in the extra period when, by an arm and body hold, he pinned the General to the mat. Tom Hill, wrestling the captain of the Citadel, snatched victory from the Wildcat basketeers Saturday night in the last match.the team, as he also did at V. M. I., gained a time decision over Seligman in 2:10 of an extra period. Brohard and Christenbury lost matches to Washington and Lee men in the 165-pound and unlimited class. This was the fourth victory for the local team for the season, having won from Concord Y twice and Carolina, and lost to V. M. I. by one match. Only two more engagements remain, those being with State and Duke later in the month.

WHO’S WHO IN a few minutes after a closely contested match at Charleston by a 39-30 score. During the first half, the teams sawed for score advantage and ended the half with an 18-18 score. They were tied up many times during this period with close play on both sides. In the second half, Citadel took the lead by making six points, but the Wildcats came ahead and brought the count to 26-24. Adding 13 more tallies, the Cadets kept the lead which gave them the victory in what Charlestonians termed the best game of the season. Lineups and score:

Davidson (30) Pos. Citadel (39)
McAulay (6) --------- Reeder (9)
Pritchett --------- Baveuosd
Weeks (11) --------- Wilson (6)
Johnson (10) --------- Harrison (6)
Willard (2) --------- Hewlett (6)
Epps (1)

Substitutions: Davidson: Kugler (2)
Referee: Eisenmann

On the rebound from this defeat, the ‘Cats walked away from the College of Charleston team Monday night 57-20 with Captain Wilson scoring 23 points. The South Carolinians were easily outclassed in every department of the game while the Davidson team gave an exhibition of smooth floor work and accurate shooting. Lineups and score:

Davidson (57) Pos. Charleston (29)
McAulay (2) --------- Zebrek (12)
Pritchett (4) --------- Mclinery (7)
Wilson (23) --------- Figg (2)
Harrison (9) --------- Gunns
Bryan (2) --------- Reynolds
Kugler (13)

Substitutions: Davidson: Crawford (2), Charleston: Walsh (6), Aimar (1).

RIFLEMEN FIRE HIGH SCORES
The second stage of the Fourth Corps Area Match of the Rifle Team is now in progress. Last week, S. Y. Brown fired the highest score of the second stage in the prone position, the total score being 98 out of a possible 100. This week, E. D. Lennon made the highest score in the sitting position, firing 97 out of a possible 100. In the near future, the Davidson Open Match will be staged, which is open to all Davidson men. A trophy will be awarded by the team itself. This trophy is a silver shield, with the following words inscribed at the top: “The Davidson Open Match.” Below this inscription is a place for the names of all the Davidson men who will be the proud winners of this trophy this year and in future years.

First Hobo—"Were you a college man?”
Second Ditto—“Another insult.”

SERVICE AND QUALITY
Maxwell Chambers Hotel
CITY DRY CLEANERS
W. L. HOBBS, Prop.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Represented by Neely and McCravey, 108 West

“The best board on the Hill”
A trial is all we ask
Student managers will call on you Monday and Thursday nights. We strive to please.
D. A. CURRIE
J. W. MELTON

Thursday, February 16, 1:30-9:30: Rev. J. M. Walker, pastor of Steele Creek Presbyterian Church. Individual conferences on problems of the minister in the country church. The Steele Creek Church is reported to be the largest country church in the Assembly.

Monday, Feb. 20, 7:30: Mr. Hugh Murrill, Jr., expert on advertising and salesmanship, known throughout the South, will speak at “Y” rooms. Interviews on Real Estate with Mr. Tom Henderson, of Home Real Estate & Guaranty Co., of Charlotte.

Tuesday, Feb. 21, 7:30-9:30: Mr. F. L. Jackson, C. P. A., widely known accountant, will give interviews on accounting.

Wednesday, Feb. 22: H. Smith Richardson, president of Vick’s Chemical Co., manufacturers of Vick’s VapoRub, to present general field of business at Shearer Hall.

Prof.—"Can’t you think of anything better to do than loaf?”
Stude—"No, sir. Nobody can.”

Many a perfect limb helps the girl who hasn’t much of a family tree —Frivol.

“It’s not the school,” cried the little boy to his mother, “it’s the principal of the thing.”

Since 1868 the Home of Good Shoes
We Have A Cracker Jack Shoe for College Men -- at only --- $7.50
We would like to show you them!
Gilmer-Moore
Charlotte, N.C.

THEY SATISFY and yet THEY'RE MILD
IN 13 MONTHS --- NEARLY A MILLION MEN HAVE CHANGED TO CHESTERFIELD
AND HERE'S WHY:
We STATE it as our honest belief that the tobaccos used in Chesterfield cigarettes are of finer quality and hence of better taste than in any other cigarette at the price.
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.