2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 16, 1928

-:- Sport Talk -:-

News and Views of Wildcat Events

By Raymond Lake

Judging from past actions taken by the National Football Rules Committee, the rules determining what is permissible and what is
not in a game of what is known as the king of college sports, will never be finally settled. Each
year this committee meets, apparently with the understanding that it will not disband until some change or changes have been
made in the rules for playing the game.

Freshmen Lose by One Point to Charlotte High

The Davidson fresh basketeers suffered their second defeat of the week last Thursday night, at the hands of Charlotte High,
Charlotte winning out by one point, 23 to 22. The freshmen had been downed by the Statesville Athletic Club on
the preceding Monday, 18 to 16.

The two teams were about evenly matched, both in speed and in floor work, and the game was the fastest
played on the Charlotte High floor this year. At the end of the first half, the Kittens were leading by
a score of 10 to 9. During the second half, the score seesawed back and forth, as it had done
in the first half, Charlotte being in the lead the greater part of the time. Toward the end of the
half, however, the Wildkittens were again in the lead by a one-point margin, and it appeared like the freshmen had
a victory in their grasp until the last couple of seconds of play, when the winning goal was made.

The meeting for this year was held at the Seaview Golf Club at Absecon, N. J., and three comparatively minor
and insignificant changes were made in the 1927 rules to govern the game in 1928. These changes were printed recently
in the newspapers, but for those who missed them (if such there be among the two or three who occasionally
read portions of this column) we will reprint them here.

“Two of the three changes made, those regarding the lateral pass and the muffled punt, represented a compromise with the
opinion of a majority of football coaches who, at their December meeting, went on record as favoring a return to
the 1926 code on these points,” says the report from the committee meeting.

The three changes made provide as follows: (1) That a lateral pass or a backward pass must be tossed at
least two yards to be classed as such, and that it may be recovered by the defensive side if grounded,
but not advanced, thus doing away with the protection afforded under the rules last year to hidden ball and other
trick passes behind the scrimmage line, and checking to screen the pass received by players who themselves are not eligible
to receive the pass.

Most of our space this week has been taken up with news of the changes in the football rules for
1928, and perhaps it is just as well or even better this way since the Wildcats have been coming out
on the bottom of the score in the basketball games and also in the wrestling matches which have been held
since this paper came out last week, and it is always easier to omit the games in which the home
team loses rather than to make comments on them. The Wildcat basketball team got a bad start on its trip
last Saturday when it lost to the strong team at the Citadel by the score of 39 to 30. The
wrestlers also got a bad start by losing to the team at V. M. I.

Who Will It Be?

Tomorrow, February 17, the contest put on by the White Drug Co. will come to a close and the winner
will be awarded with a five-pound box of candy. Have you cast your vote yet? The time is near at
hand so be sure to drop by the “Drug Store” before tomorrow at 6 P. M. and cast your vote
for whom you think is the most popular man on the campus. Be sure to name your man.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Coaches to Choose Red and Black Teams Soon

These Two Teams to Scrimmage Each Week

Spring football practice is in full swing at the present time, although several of the afternoon practices have been missed
because of bad weather. Coaches Monk and Tex have both been rather handicapped by the fact that they are each
coaching another sport at the same time. Coach Monk has charge of the basketball squad, while Tex is handling the
wrestling team. However, they are taking as much time as they are able to spare from their other sports in
order that they may have more time to whip the candidates into shape, and form a nucleus around which they
can build the Red and Black machine of next fall.

In a short while, the players will be divided into two groups, the Reds, and the Blacks. These two teams
will scrimmage each other practically every Saturday afternoon until spring practice is over. The coaches have divided the men up
in this way in order to stir up friendly rivalry between the members of the opposing teams, and also as
an incentive to more and harder work from all the men out for positions on the team.

The coaches have been running the candidates through the various forms of work which comprise the everyday routine of practice
for the team, such as kicking, passing, blocking, and scrimmaging.

In the near future, many of the men out for the team will have to report for other sports. Track
practice has already started, and baseball practice will begin in the next few weeks, and all those men out for
spring football who are interested in these two sports will have to answer the call for them. Wildcats and Wildcat
supporters haveThere is reason to be proud of many of the alumni of Davidson, but to our knowledge, there is
only one who has had the distinction of being sought after by the big leaguers. Here at Davidson, he has
long been recognized as a baseball player of no mean ability. Several months ago, the news that he had been
offered a place with the New York Giants leaked out, and then later the news that he had declined the
offer and would not enter the big leagues. During the last week, however, the news that Pat went to New
York and conferred with John McGraw, manager of the Giants, and finally agreed to try out with them for a
week this spring and then accept a place with them if they think he is big league material, has been
given out. Pat is at present coach at Guilford College and will finish out his contract there, which holds him
till the close of the present school year.

The game was thrown by Thompson, a substitute forward of Charlotte. McCall played the best game for the Kittens, scoring
eight of the twenty-two points, vying for high scoring honors with McCachren of Charlotte. McCachren and Johnson of Charlotte played
the best game for the high school team. This week, the fresh will be on the road from Tuesday until
Saturday. On Tuesday night, they will play the fast Oak Ridge quintet in an effort to avenge the defeat handed
to them by the latter team earlier in the season. On Wednesday, the Wake Forest Freshmen, who also defeated the
freshmen earlier in the year, will be played. The State freshmen will be met on Thursday, and on Friday night,
the freshmen will meet the Duke freshmen at Durham. The lineup and summary:

Davidson - Charlotte High
McCall (8) - McCachren (8)
Rusk (6) - Johnson (6)
Wilson (2) - Reid (1)
Goodson (4) - Ward (6)
Proctor (2) - Johnson

Substitutions—Davidson: Overman, McAllister; Charlotte: Thompson (2); Referee, Faul.

Chapel Hill Team Leads State Basketball Fives

The University of North Carolina basketball team seems to have the best claim to the State Championship of North Carolina,
by virtue of their win over Duke on Saturday night. Carolina also has to her credit victories over N. C.
State and Wake Forest. They still have a game to be played with each of these last two teams, so
the outcome of the race for State honors is not assured as yet. Duke lays claim to second place with
wins over Wake Forest, State, and Davidson. Carolina not only holds the strongest bid for the state crown, but also
has a very good showing as far as Southern honors are concerned. This team has started sixteen games this season
so far and has emerged victorious from fifteen of them. They have lost only to Tulane’s “Green Wave.” Although they
lost this game, since then, they have defeated the Tulane team twice, a stunt which in a great way offsets
the loss of the first game.

INDIVIDUAL SCORES
Pritchett - 103
Wilson - 70
McCauley - 58
Starr - 38
Kugler - 32
Hewlett - 27
Crawford - 7

Duke Matmen Down Carolina Grapplers

The Duke University wrestling team last Saturday defeated the matmen from the University of North Carolina by a score of
24 to 3. The team from Carolina won the state championship in this sport last year. Because of her recent
victory, many of the sport scribes and authorities all over the state are now ready to concede Duke the 1928
championship in wrestling, pointing out the fact that while Davidson’s strong team only succeeded in defeating the team from Carolina
by the close score of 13 1-2 to 7 1-2, the Duke wrestlers defeated the same team with comparative ease.
The only score which the Carolina matmen were able to make was the win of Abbett, captain of the Carolina
team. Captain Abbott has not lost a match during the whole of his collegiate career and is generally considered by
authorities to be the best wrestler of his class in the state. He won his match by defeating Warren of
Duke on a time decision. Duke ran up her score by three falls and three time decisions, Carolina winning the
other match. The falls were registered for Duke by Applewhite, Cole, and Culp. The Wildcat mat team, which is at
present on a trip through Virginia, will wrestle the Duke grapplers at some time during the latter part of this
month or in the early part of next month.

It is not new for Carolina to make a strong bid for the Southern Conference title. In the past six
years, Carolina has won four Conference titles. They have a good team, a good record, and a good chance to
repeat their performances of past years again this year when they play in the Southern Conference Tourney which is to
be held in the near future in Atlanta. The men who will probably comprise the squad when the team journeys
to Atlanta in the next few weeks are as follows: Forwards: Rufus Hackney, Henry Satterfield, and Billy Vanstory. Centers: Carr
Purser and Lacy Harper. Guards: Capt. Worth Morris, Bill Daddler, and Julius Fenner.

MINISTERIAL CALL (Continued from page 1)

Sorry for his wrongdoing, and His servants of today have the wonderful privilege of leading despairing men back to the
same forgiving Christ. Jesus should be just as vital in the life of the businessman as in that of the
preacher. He is the Eternal Son of God and happy is the man who has been called by Him to
help spread the Gospel.

SOPHS PLAN FETE (Continued from page 1)

Committees. The banquet, it is stated, will be held sometime during the first part of March. This banquet is held
every year by the sophomore class, at some roof-garden or hotel in Charlotte. Last year, the class of ’29 staged
their fete on the roof-garden of the Johnson building.

New! At Efird’s - Pro Golf Suits

Just arrived—Men’s Pro Golf Suits of a knitted fabric, guaranteed weatherproof, in colors of greys, tans, and brown—in herringbone stripes—suits
consisting of coat, knickers, and cap, $25.00. Suits consisting of sweater, knickers, and caps—priced at $21.50.
