THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1928

In an impressive ceremony led by members of the old and new groups, the new cabinet was entrusted with their duties. "The supreme need of Davidson College today is not a greater endowment fund, not finer buildings," said Charlie McRae, retiring president of the Y. M. C. A., in his charge to the incoming officers and members of the cabinet, "but for the students to come into a closer and more binding fellowship with Jesus Christ."

Taking as the basis for his discussion the well-known statement, "Great men are always lonely," McRae presented Christ as typical of a man living alone, engaging constantly in prayer with His Father, the only one with whom He could in reality commune. "Still," continued McRae, "Jesus longed for friendship and still longs for it. The possibilities of a man’s fellowship with Christ are unlimited and incomprehensible."

In closing, McRae charged the newly elected officers and cabinet to realize their opportunity to lead men into a closer fellowship with Christ, and cause them to cease living merely for the present and cast their eyes into the future. John Melton, president of the "Y" for the coming year, accepted the charge presented by McRae and pledged himself and the new cabinet to a greater work for Christ at Davidson. Comparing the taking over of the "Y" work by the new officers to the running of a relay, he brought out the fact that each succeeding runner must carry the baton on, but that he must increase his efforts over those of the other man. And so with the "Y," efforts must be made continually to rise to higher and better things in the way of Christian living. Melton summed up the program of the "Y" for the coming year in the following text: "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His Righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you."

"The country today needs great men," continued Melton, "not only of great physical and mental powers but men who have the Spirit of Christ. These are the truly great men." He presented another desired aim of the "Y" as being able to put Jesus Christ everywhere on the campus, in the hearts of the students so that they may seek first the Kingdom of God; then these earthly things shall be added. He pled for the co-operation of every Davidson man in attempting this great achievement.

The duties of the members of the student body were put before them by Jim Appleby, secretary of the "Y." Jim spoke on "Why the 'Y'?" and brought out some of the ways it is important to the students. He told of the turmoil going on in the mind of the average student, and how his mind is constantly filled with religious doubt and restlessness. "If one would know the doctrines of religion and truth," said Jim, "he must believe in God and do His will. Then only will he have satisfaction and understanding." Jim challenged the new cabinet to give the students an opportunity to serve, sacrifice, and come closer to Jesus Christ. His challenge to the students was to so serve as to do His will and bring others to know Christ.

Program Announced for Commencement

Completion of preliminary arrangements for the ninety-second annual Commencement exercises of Davidson College was announced by Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the institution. The Commencement program will formally open at 11 o'clock Sunday morning, May 27th, with a baccalaureate sermon to be preached by Dr. Frank S. Morgan, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Augusta, Ga., son of Campbell Morgan, famous evangelist. The special Y. M. C. A. Commencement vesper services will be featured with an address by Rev. H. W. DuBose, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Spartanburg, S. C. These services will follow the baccalaureate sermon and will be attended by a large number of parents and visitors to the college.

Class day exercises for the graduating class of 129 members are scheduled for Monday afternoon, May 28th, immediately following a lawn party and reception at which the local "Y" will be host. Class day speakers include: D. W. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va.

Beginners’ Golf Outfits. We offer a set of four Clubs and Canvas Bag for $8.50. We restring Tennis Racquets. Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C. CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated MANUFACTURERS OF "DE LUXE" ICE CREAM BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS Mooresville, N.C. CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

S&W Cafeterias are catering to you (ATLANTA Soon) ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

We have at all times a complete stock of New Orthophonic Victrolas and Panatropes Brunswick Records Victor and Brunswick Records Every Friday A Complete Line of RCA Radios from $69.50 to $895. Parker-Gardner Co.

A NEW "Y" SERVICE

Sunday evening vesper service for April 21st will be held on the campus behind the "Y" room, weather permitting. A short devotional service, in charge of the Freshman class, will be conducted. There will be no special speaker on the program. Special music will be rendered. This will be the first of a series of such services with different classes in charge, and a large attendance is urged.

Fresh Team Beats Charlotte School!

By defeating Charlotte High School 5-3 last Thursday, April 12th, the Wildkittens administered to Charlotte the first defeat of this year. The Freshmen showed some good playing although several errors were made. The Charlotte team put up a nice fight but could not compete with the fast Freshman team. The feature of the game was thePitching of the Fresh ace, “Buck” Marrow. Marrow struck out 14 men during the nine innings; in the last three innings Marrow struck out nine men. Armfield led the locals at the bat by getting two three-base hits and a single in four times up. Proctor was runner-up for batting honors, with a two-bagger and a single, in four times up. Box score and summary:

DAV. FRESH.
Marks, 3b .......... 4 0 0 2 1 1
McMillan, ss ........ 4 0 0 2 1 1
Goodson, 1b ........ 4 0 1 5 0 1
Proctor, 2b ........ 4 0 2 0 2 1
Covington, lf ....... 4 1 1 0 0 1
McCallum, cf ....... 4 1 1 0 0 0
Armfield, c ......... 4 2 3 15 0 0
Gibson, rf .......... 4 1 1 2 0 0
Marrow, p .......... 4 0 0 1 2 0
Totals ............. 35 5 10 27 6 5

CHAR. HIGH
Wilkie, ss .......... 5 0 2 2 2 0
Brooks, cf .......... 5 0 0 1 0 0
Mason, 2b .......... 5 1 2 2 2 2
Shelby, 1b .......... 5 0 1 8 0 0
Shotes, 3b .......... 5 0 2 0 2 0
Robinson, c ......... 4 0 1 8 0 1
Hutchinson, lf ...... 4 0 0 3 0 0
Fullerton, rf ........ 3 0 1 0 0 0
Wood, p ............ 4 0 0 0 2 0
Totals ............. 39 3 7 24 8 3

Errors: Mason (2), Robinson, Marks, McMillan, Goodson, Proctor, Covington; two-base hits: Proctor, Mason, Wilkie; three-base hits: McCallum, Armfield (2), Gibson.

Twenty years ago, a visit to Charlotte was considered quite a journey, and the wording of the following item appearing in The Observer several days ago, under the caption, “Twenty Years Ago,” seems to indicate that Dr. Harding had come from a distant point: “Dr. C. R. Harding, of the faculty of Davidson College, arrived in the city last night and will conduct services at Westminster Presbyterian Church today and tonight.”

Va.; J. S. McAlister, Greensboro, N. C.; V. J. Guthrey, Charlotte, N. C.; J. P. McKnight, Shelby, N. C.

Dr. Donald W. Richardson, of the Nanking Theological Seminary, Nanking, China, now on leave of absence to America, will deliver the annual literary address at noon Tuesday, May 29th. Diplomas and prizes will be awarded on Wednesday, May 30th.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see M. P. Crawford
QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Gettysburg Net Stars Defeated by Davidson

Davidson Golfers Take Second Place in Annual State Golf Tournament

Davidson’s tennis team, winner of the intercollegiate doubles championship of North Carolina for three successive years, and runner-up for singles honors in 1927, continued its winning stride Saturday by turning back a fast but unavailing Gettysburg University team, 6-0. It was the fifth straight intercollegiate victory for the Davidson netmen this season.

The Gettysburg net stars, now on an extended tour of the South, found their Davidson opponents too strong in every department of court play with the result that the Pennsylvania lads lost both the doubles and singles matches without once threatening the local players. Not until the final doubles match of the day did the Easterners have the Davidson players trailing. In that match, the longest and most exciting of the afternoon, Hood and Lauer, of Gettysburg, had Roddey and Carr, of Davidson, five games behind. The Pennsylvanians were unable to maintain their lead, however, and lost the match to the Davidson team in straight sets, 10-8 and 6-2.

Other results were:
Singles: Roddey, of Davidson, defeated Hood, of Gettysburg, 6-3, 6-0; Haverstadt, of Davidson, defeated Lauer, of Gettysburg, 6-3, 6-3; Johnston, of Davidson, defeated Uhler, of Gettysburg, 6-1, 6-0; Carr, of Davidson, defeated Koch, of Gettysburg, 7-5, 6-3.
Doubles: Roddey and Carr, of Davidson, defeated Hood and Lauer, of Gettysburg, 10-8, 6-2; Halverstadt and Johnston, of Davidson, defeated Koch and Signer, of Gettysburg, 6-1, 6-1.

The Davidson team left yesterday for the University of North Carolina, where it is to enter the North Carolina Intercollegiate tournament, which extends through today, Friday and Saturday, and which will be entered by all North Carolina colleges. Following this, the team will meet Carolina on Monday and Duke on Tuesday.

P. O. Bethea, ’22, has completed a course in insurance in New York and is now located in Charlotte in the Independence building, with the Pilot Life Insurance Company. He is manager of the branch in Charlotte.

Fashion Park and Lebow Bros. Suits $45.00
A fine selection of Fashion Park and Lebow Brothers suits--correctly tailored and smartly fashioned for the man who wishes to be conservatively well dressed--a choice selection of fabrics--in all popular shades--priced $45.00. Other Suits $30.00 to $65.00.
Men’s Department---Street Floor