JUNIOR 29 ISSUE THE DAVIDSONIAN JUNIOR 729 ISSUE FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 26, 1928 No. 28

Relinquishes Hold to: Newly-Elected Body
Past Student Council | Services for New Council—Hill Addresses Student Body

Installation of the recently elected student body officers and the student council took place on the morning of April 18th, at chapel. Ex-President Hugh Arrowood conducted the ceremony, which was opened by swearing in the council. After this, he expressed in a few words the appreciation of the retiring council for the co-operation which has been evinced by the members of the student body during the past, and for the confidence which they have placed in the council. Bob Kell, the new student president, followed this by expressing on behalf of the new council the appreciation of the trust confided in them. He made the statement that the policy of the council will be to strictly enforce the laws of the student constitution, and he solicited the help of each member of the student body. He called attention to the fact that there are few restrictions placed on the students, and that these are for the welfare and benefit of the students in their campus life.

The new council is made up as follows: From the rising Senior class, Bob Kell, president of the student body; Monroe Gilmour, president of the class; Mac King, Bill Powell, Bill Bailey, Fred Ratchford, and John Melton; from the rising Junior class, Zeb Long, president of the class; Tom Brohard, John McInnis, and Carl Pritchett; and from the rising Sophomore class, Pete Glidewell, president of the class; Thad Brock, and Dan Goodykoontz.

Appointments to Staff of “Quips and Cranks” Made by J. R. Covington
Revival of Old Humorous Section Will Be Included

Appointments to the staff of the Davidson annual, “Quips and Cranks,” for next year have been made by Bob Covington, recently elected editor-in-chief of the 1929 yearbook. Although most of the work on this book will have to be done next year, the staff hopes to get as much as possible done this spring. For this purpose, the editor has urged all members of the rising Sophomore class who wish to go out for annual work to give in their names as soon as possible, so that they may make assignments to be gotten up before the end of school. No definite plans have been made yet as to the actual make-up of the annual, but it is hoped that a number of special features may be worked in. Among these will be included a revival of the old humorous section. To take care of these plans, a special feature editorship has been created on the new staff.

The appointments made by the editor are as follows:
Literary Editor—R. A. Deane
Athletic Editor—J. L. Ely
Fraternities Editor—M. T. Gilmour
Activities Editor—R. C. Grady
Photographic Editor—G. H. Green
Assistants—W. G. McGavock, L. A. Mills
Art Editor—G. A. Fry
Feature Editor—R. R. Kane
Chief Typist—A. J. Cox
Assistant Editors—Dave Anderson, C. M. Pratt, W. B. Seay, C. C. Dubose

Jim Appleby, Sec’y by Seniors of '28

The gift which the Seniors of '28 will give to the college will be entirely different from the gifts of former classes; for the gift this year is in the form of scholarships. A resolution was adopted whereby each member was assessed a certain amount for the purpose of forming scholarships for needy and deserving students. The awarding of these scholarships will be in the hand of a committee composed of Dr. Sentelle, chairman, Coaches Younger and Tilson. The class of '28 hopes that their example will be followed by the classes to come. This plan is very much like the plan adopted at V. P. I. where the classes leave money for scholarships for athletes. These scholarships are for students who need and deserve the aid instead of athletes. 

The Senior class hopes that this plan will work out as they have anticipated and be so successful that other classes will see the good from this plan and adopt it as their class gift. This plan has worked at other schools and the class sees no reason why it will not do much good for the college in the years to come. These scholarships will make it possible for some capable young man to come to Davidson who never could have come if it had not been for this scholarship established by the class of '28. There were many things thought of by the class but they finally decided that scholarships would do the college more good than any gifts such as benches, ticket booths, or other things that would look pretty on the campus.

“Y,” Not to Return

An announcement of especial interest to every Davidson man was made recently, when Jim Appleby, present secretary of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., definitely announced that he would not return to hold this position next year. He has decided to enter Union Theological Seminary, taking the regular seminary work, and majoring especially in Religious Education, which subject has been of particular interest to him. During the summer he will teach Bible and Religious Education at Alabama State Normal.

During his time as secretary of the Davidson “Y”, Jim has made many friends and has in every way advanced the work of the Y. M. C. A., introducing many new and helpful ideas. He has meant much to Davidson and his going will be sincerely regretted by a large number, who have had the opportunity of meeting and working with him. While in school here Jim was one of the campus leaders in every phase of college life, being on the “Y” cabinet, a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, serving a term as the national president of this organization, a member of Phi Beta Kappa and recently further honored by being elected to Omicron Delta Kappa. In all respects he was among the leaders on the Hill and made himself known as a capable, high-minded Christian gentleman. After graduating in the class of '26 he was asked to return to the position he has held for the past two years, during which time he has worked unceasingly, endeavoring to improve and aid the Y. M. C. A., until the Davidson organization is now known as one of the best in the South, due for a great part to the unstinted efforts Jim has made for its advancement. It is in this capacity that his influence has been felt, for he has de

Scholarships Given | Court of Control Instituted in Fall

GLEE CLUB CORRECTION

The Davidsonian wishes to correct a statement made in the last issue concerning the date of the final public appearance of the Glee Club. The club’s last performance of the year will be held on May 8th, in Shearer Hall, instead of on May 1st, as it was stated. At this time the entire Glee Club, together with the symphony and jazz orchestras, will appear in concert.

Eight Students Chosen to Serve on Court of Control for Next Year
Four Seniors, Two Juniors, and Two Sophomores on New Council

LAKE IS JUDGE of 1923

At a recent date, selection of the new members of the Court of Control was made. The following are the names of those selected by the court: Raymond Lake, judge; Duil Hub Knox, and Tom Hill, of the rising Senior class; Heath Whittle and Jim Hammett, of the rising Junior class; and Dean Rusk and Hub Covington, of the rising Sophomore class.The Court of Control, instituted during the fall term of 1923, as a result of the abolishment of hazing, has proved itself very satisfactory in controlling and enforcing the regulations of the Freshman class every year.

Regen, of the rising Dumas to be Head of Forensic Council

In the election in the parlors of Watts last Friday night for the men to fill the vacancies on the Forensic Council for the coming year, the following were elected to their respective offices: Lawrence Dumas, president; W. K. Pritchett, vice-president; W. E. McGuire, secretary; C. R. Pritchett, secretary; and R. M. Christian, treasurer. The council for next year has two men less than the retiring number, the offices being reduced from seven to five. This was the first time that council has been elected by the debaters themselves. The retiring council, consisting of members, namely, H. T. Powell, president; Chalmers Davidson, vice-president; Jeff Garrison, treasurer; Bob Grady, secretary intercollegiate debating; Lawrence Dumas, secretary; Frank Hall, secretary society debating; planned and carried out the most extensive program that has ever been undertaken at Davidson College, successful in points won and lost; the outcome was very good considering the handicaps. There were only five debaters who had had a reasonable amount of experience at the beginning of the last fall term; and there was practically no seasoned and experienced material from which to draw. But even at this, the schedule resulted in six wins and five losses, which, considering the opponents and their ability, was not bad.

Raymond Lake, who is the newly elected judge of the organization, is fully qualified to fill the position and to carry on the work of the court satisfactorily. Following are the names of the members of the retiring court which has completed a very successful year of work: Piggy Wearn, judge; W. L. Lingle, Rod McRae, M. T. Gilmour, R. E. Kell, J. D. Hammett, and A. N. Halverstadt.

The new council consists of men who have proved their ability in the last year or two, and a successful program is expected next year, at the beginning of the fall term. Both Lawrence Dumas and W. K. Pritchett were on the team last year, and were two of the five who composed the team.

New Frat Council Takes Over Duties

Fraternity affairs on the campus have been taken under the direction of the new Pan-Hellenic Council, which entered into its duties last Friday, April 20th. The members, who were recently selected by their respective fraternities, were installed by the old council. H. B. Arbuckle, president of the retiring body, gave the reins to M. M. King, the new president, who will head the council during the coming year. J. F. McCrary was succeeded as secretary and treasurer by L. D. Kirkland. The duties of the Pan-Hellenic Council are to set the date for bid-day, to regulate “rushing,” to act as intermediary between the fraternities and the college authorities, and to take care of all fraternity activities. The new council is as follows: M. M. King, president—Kappa Alpha. L. D. Kirkland, secretary-treasurer—Pi Kappa Alpha. K. P. Mattox—Pi Kappa Phi. J. S. Causey—Beta Theta Pi. D. F. Cannon—Sigma Alpha Epsilon. G. H. Green—Kappa Sigma. W. E. Phifer, Jr.—Theta Upsilon Omega. C. R. Lake—Phi Gamma Delta.

(Continued on page 6).

(Continued on page 8)

Professor Rene Hardre Speaks to French Club

Davidson Netmen Star In Tennis Tournament; Interrupted By Rains

Captain Dick Carr and his netmen are still very much in the running in the North Carolina State College tournament, which was held at Chapel Hill last week and which was postponed because of bad weather. John T. Roddy, playing number one for Davidson and runner-up in the single tournament last year, reached the semi-finals in singles before wet weather forced the play to stop. In his previous matches John showed mighty strong stuff, and the team feels very optimistic over his coming through as singles champion. The other semi-finalists are Helms, of Wake Forest; Stuart Rogers, Duke; Charlie Waddell, Carolina. Rogers and Waddell have shown up best and will give Roddy plenty of trouble.

In the doubles, Captain Carr, the best doubles player in the state, partnered with Roddy, has reached the semi-finals. Their next match will be against Waddell and Williams, of Carolina. This semi-final match will feature in the doubles tournament since the two are admitted to be the two best pairs in the play. The tournament will probably be finished about the 26th of May. With practice going on all the time until then, it will take championship tennis of high caliber to come through such a strong field.

Changes Among Faculty for Coming School Year Are Less Than Formerly

Capt. N. G. Pritchett from Woodbury Forest, Chosen as Athletic Instructor

According to President Martin, there will be very few changes in the faculty for the coming year. These changes will be brought about largely by the return of professors who have been on leave for the past year and by the departure of those going on leave for the following year. Professor Beatty, who is now studying at Columbia University for his Ph.D. in Latin, is returning next year and will be assistant both in the Latin and English departments. Prof. G. H. Davis will be back next year to take Prof. P. M. Patterson’s place in the Biology department. Professor Davis is now at the University of Chicago taking graduate work. Prof. A. V. Goldiere, who is now studying at Yale, will also be back and will teach in both the French and Spanish departments. Capt. N. G. Pritchett comes to Davidson from Woodbury Forest, where he has served as an instructor for several years, to take charge of the Physical Training department. Captain Pritchett, on account of his previous experience, is considered a man well suited to meet the requirements of this department, created at a recent meeting of the board of trustees. Professor Crow, of the Spanish department, and Professor Schenck, of the Math and Bible departments, are both leaving for the coming year. Professor Crow is sailing next fall from San Francisco on a Floating University tour. Professor Schenck is going to Yale to study for a year and will then re-