THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1928

NEW YORK ASSOCIATION ELECTS W. P. ANDERSON TO PRESIDENCY AGAIN

Member of Class of ’07 Serves Third Term as Head of New York Association—Routt and Oeland Also Elected

W. P. Anderson, ’07, was re-elected president; Emmett G. Routt, ’10, was chosen as vice-president, and R. W. Oeland, '25,
was selected secretary-treasurer of the New York Alumni Association at a dinner-meeting held at the New York Advertising Club on
Tuesday night, March 13th. This was the semi-annual meeting of that organization.

The New York gathering ended a series of six meetings in eight days, and the same measure of interest that
had characterized the affairs prior to that time was manifest that night. Approximately 20 former students of Davidson attended and
were keenly concerned about their alma mater.

W. P. Anderson, who has been president for the past two years, presided as toastmaster and conducted the most systematic
meeting yet attended by either of the alumni secretaries. Telegrams were read from Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson,
which was optimistic over the future of the college; and from Rev. W. E. Phifer, ’96, of Port Jervis, N.
Y., who expressed regret that he was unable to attend. A letter was also read from J. P. Williams, ’16,
of Davidson, a former member of the association.

Ernest Milton was present from Davidson, outlining the remarkable growth of Davidson in the past sixteen years, describing the institution
as it is today, and pointing out the forward steps being taken by the college. He also discussed alumni work
since its inception in 1926 and told about the future of the work. Following his talk, the meeting was thrown
open for discussion, and many questions were asked by the alumni.

The association passed a resolution which contained the opinion that the alumni office should supervise the mailing of Davidsonians to
alumni on the mailing list, requesting the home office to take steps to do this if it was possible. Complaint
was made that the issues come irregularly, though it was stated that the alumni were better pleased this year than
before. Individual opinion was expressed that this department of The Davidsonian should be enlarged.

Powell and Dillard in Debates With Several Southern Schools

Davidson’s Southern varsity debating team, composed of Henry Powell and Tyree Dillard, left during the early part of this week
on a trip through the South. The team will visit three schools on this trip, these three being the University
of Florida, at Gainesville, Fla.; the University of the South, at Sewanee, Tenn.; and Emory University, at Atlanta, Ga. The
schools will be met in the above-named order.

The query for the debate is, “Resolved, That the United States should cease to protect by force of arms capital
in foreign lands, except after formal declaration of war.” Messrs. Powell and Dillard have the affirmative side of the question
in each of the three debates on the trip.

Of these teams which are to be met, Florida is the only team which has been met in a previous
encounter this year. The Florida team was debated in Shearer Hall several weeks ago and defeated by a team composed
of Bob Kell and L. K. Pritchett. The decision as to the winners was left for the audience to decide,
at the request of the Florida team. Last year, Sewanee was defeated by a team composed of Dillard and Bill
Christian.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Announcement has just reached Davidson of the engagement of Edwin A. West, ’24, to Miss Virginia Carter, of Hemp, N.
C., the marriage to be solemnized in the early fall. Miss Carter is the youngest daughter of the late W.
G. Carter and Mrs. Margaret McLeod Carter, of Carters Mill. Mr. West is the son of George W. West of
Fayetteville. Since his graduation from Davidson College in 1924, he has been teaching at Hope Mills. Last fall he transferred
to Elise High School at Hemp, where he is now principal. He has made many friends in the city in
which he now resides, and will in all probability return there, following his marriage, to make his home.

Many friends throughout North Carolina will be interested in the following announcement, recently appearing in the Wilmington Morning Star: “Mrs.
Edith Prince Ruckert announces the marriage of her daughter, Edith Golden, to Mr. Norman Westbrook Shepard, on Tuesday, February 7,
1928, at the American Legation, Peking, China.”

Mr. Shepard, son of Mr. and Mrs. Alexander H. Shepard, of Wilmington, was educated at Davidson College and at the
University of North Carolina, having attended college here as a member of the class of ’23. During his college days
at the University, he was prominently identified with athletic circles of the university, and following his graduation, he served overseas
as a member of the American expeditionary forces. For several years he has been in the employ of the Liggett
and Myers Tobacco Company, with his headquarters in China. Mrs. Shepard is the attractive daughter of Mrs. Edith Ruckert and
the late Christian G. Ruckert, prominent real estate man of Brooklyn, N. Y. The bride’s family resides at East Moritz,
Long Island. Mr. and Mrs. Shepard are returning to the United States by way of the Panama Canal and Cuba,
and will be at home in Garden City, Long Island, after May 15.

For the past five years, Emory University has evidently been a jinx to Davidson teams, since it has been that
long since a Davidson debating team has defeated a team from Emory. Each year a different subject has been debated,
and each year, the Davidson team has been forced to turn sadly homeward. This school is to be met in
Atlanta on Friday, March 23rd.

“I was on the stage once.”
“Yeah?”
“Uh-huh, I fell out of the balcony.”—Reserve Red Cat.

The only difference between a modern co-ed and a seventeenth-century pirate is that the pirate is dead—Westminstrel.

They giggled when I sat down to the piano, but when I began...To play the lessons I learned from the
Surefire Correspondence School, they laughed right out loud.—Georgia Cracker.

Bored Sophomore—“I’ve been around with girls, and girls, and girls, and girls—”
Freshman—“Where? On a merry-go-round?”—Arisous Kitybel.

“Where are you from?”
“West Virginia. Down in God’s country.”
“Why do you call it that?”
“Nobody else can get through it.”—Okla. Whirlwind.

Louisiana Association
Twenty-Five Former Students Will Meet Thursday Night
Gather for Second Meeting

Announcement has been received at Davidson that the Louisville (Ky.) Alumni Association will hold their annual meeting at the Kentucky
Hotel, Louisville, Ky., Thursday night, March 20th, at 6:30 o’clock. Approximately twenty Davidson College alumni are in that city or
vicinity. An invitation was extended to the local secretaries to attend this gathering, but due to the lack of finances
it will be impossible for either one to be present. Information is being furnished to the president of the association
about the college and alumni work.

Officers of this association are Rev. Thornton Whaling, D.D., '77, president; Rev. R. M. Pegram, ’11, vice-president, and R. G.
White, ’25, secretary-treasurer. An election of officers will occur at the meeting on the twenty-ninth.

Davidson alumni who are attending the University of Pennsylvania Medical School are R. M. Avery, ’26; J. P. Hendrix, ’25;
A. M. McBryde, '24; W. Z. Bradford, '24; L. P. Cox, ’25. Those attending Jefferson Medical School, also in Philadelphia,
are S. S. McNair, ’25; J. M. Adams, ’23; A. M. Sample, Jr., '24; J. C. Leonard, Jr., ’24, and
R. H. Morris, '24.

As a result of the recent alumni trip through the east, 30 changes in address have been made and more
corrections are yet to come into the local office. Fifteen additions have been made to the alumni list.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Dr. Oren Moore, ’08, of Charlotte, has been chosen as one of the principal speakers to appear before the South
Carolina Medical Association which meets at Columbia, S. C., on April 18th. He is one of four outstanding men in
the medical profession who will appear before that body.

G. F. Laird, ’26, now coach at Catawba College at Salisbury, will not be with that institution after this spring.
Newspaper reports from Salisbury state that he “is planning on going to college to seek his master of arts degree
in physical education or is changing localities for another season.”

W. E. Black, ’06, has been re-elected superintendent of the city schools of Greenwood, S. C., for the tenth successive
year. He was elected unanimously, and with the vote went an expression of appreciation of the services he has rendered.

Dr. M. C. S. Noble, ’79, dean of the college of liberal arts in the University of North Carolina, recently
celebrated his 73rd birthday, and on that day issued a statement regretting the diminishing interest in the classics chiefly because
nothing had been found to take their place.

Rev. G. W. Mauze, ’23, of Greenbank, W. Va., is visiting in Charlotte for a short time, and Sunday morning
he filled the pulpit of the Second Presbyterian Church.

Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99, of Charlotte, has been appointed a trustee of the North Carolina Orthopaedic Hospital at Gastonia
by Governor A. W. McLean.

Rev. and Mrs. W. A. Gamble, of Pinetops, N. C., announce the birth of a son. Mr. Gamble is a
member of the 1923 class.

W. M. Cox, Jr., ’24, is now with Mead Johnson & Co., at Evansville, Ind. He is working on the
physiological problem of Vitamin D and its relation to the sterol, ergosterol.

J. H. McKeithan, ’22, is now with the law firm of Fred Parrish at Winston-Salem, N. C.

Dr. R. T. Allison, ’20, has recently left Baltimore and is with the Cincinnati General Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio.

F. T. Mitchell, ’25, is at Pernambuco, Brazil, having a connection with the National City Bank of New York.

Dr. R. S. Cunningham, '11, is now with the Vanderbilt Hospital, Nashville, Tenn.

R. S. Marshall, ’09, of Washington, D. C., has recently presented the Davidson library with a volume of Who's Who
in the South, a book published by a corporation of which he is head. This includes most of the men
in the official Who's Who in America, and others who have attained prominence in every field of endeavor.

If You Are Going to be a Preacher...
You Will Find That Union Seminary Has Sent Many Sons to Preach in Foreign Lands

Rev. Alexander E. Wilson, M. D.
One of the first Missionary ae Africa,

The first individual student of Union Seminary to begin actual work on foreign soil was Thos. P. Johnston, of Rowan
County, North Carolina. In 1833 he sailed for Turkey where he labored for twenty years. The first group to go
abroad was a group of three, who, with their wives, sailed for South Africa in 1834. These endured almost incredible
hardships, but their sacrifices bore fruit. The example set by these four was quickly followed by other choice young men
who went to Turkey and to Liberia in 1834, to India, to Greece, and to Persia in 1836, and to
Siam in 1839.

Alumni of Union Seminary were among the first on the field in China, Japan, Siam, India, Persia, and Turkey, and
as pioneers doing foundation work, they actually established or were partners in establishing our missions in Brazil, in Mexico, in
Greece, in Korea, and in Africa. Now they form a large percentage of the force in each of the seven
foreign mission fields of the Southern Church.

At Union Seminary the missionary conception of Christianity has been taught in, under and with everything that has been taught—that
the Bible is the greatest missionary textbook in the world, that Christianity is a religion which climaxes itself into a
world summons to service. The result is that the students who pass under such tuition as a rule attack the
problems of their holy calling with a world-outlook.

Catalogue and information on request.

This is the ninth of a series of advertisements.
