THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1928

SOCIAL

Last Friday night the annual Junior Oratorical Contest was held in Shearer Hall. Immediately after the “speaking” all those socially inclined who had the customary “wherewithal” retired to Concord to a dance held there. On Saturday afternoon, immediately after the track meet held with the University of South Carolina, the Juniors entertained the faculty, the entire student body, and the weekend guests at a reception held in the gym. That night perhaps the most enjoyable event of the weekend was held in Shearer Hall; a minstrel presented by the Junior class. To cap the climax and bring the Junior Speaking to a fitting close, the Junior class had charge of “Y” vespers and conducted a beautiful open-air service in the true spirit of Junior Speaking.

The house guests of the various fraternities for the weekend are as follows:

Beta Theta Pi—Miss Polly Wells, Tallahassee, Fla.; Miss Sarah Glenn, Agnes Scott; Misses Cynthia Vaughn and Tillie Jones, Sweetbriar; Miss Elizabeth Parker, Duke; Miss Margaret Withers, Columbia; Misses Penelope and Ann Cannon, Concord; Misses Winifred Pegram and Lon Fuller, Charlotte; Miss “Shorty” Reed, Converse, and Miss Rosie Lee Wylie, N. C. C. W.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Misses Polly Aiken, Dibby Thomas, and Miss Katherine Bowers, Converse; Miss Elizabeth Fraley, Statesville; Miss Tommie Hollis, Greensboro; Miss Ruth Owens, N. C. C. W., and Miss Ann McLauren, Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha—Miss Reba Jones, Converse; Miss Helen Rouney, Charleston; Misses Emma Cothran, Mary Bell, and Virginia Nutting, Charlotte; Misses Alice Withers and Nancy Parish, Atlanta.

Kappa Sigma—Misses Esther Mitchell and Elizabeth Stewart, Salem; Misses Eunice Glenn and Pat Herndon, Asheville; Miss Christine McCrary, Lexington; Misses Ida Belle Gilliland and Cereste Ellerbe, Winthrop; Miss Verna McQueen, Little Rock, S. C.; Misses Elizabeth Thompson and Nancy Grey, Davidson; Miss Margaret Smith, Charlotte; Misses Lewellyn Best, Christine Thompson, and Emma Holliday, Converse; Miss Hazel Floyd, Coker; Miss Tillie Jones, Sweetbriar; Miss Athleen Whisnant, N. C. C. W.; Miss Betty Dunlap, Rock Hill, S. C.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Misses Vaughn Nixon and Myra Boynton, Atlanta; Miss Frances Hall, Wilmington; Misses Craigie Pegram and Sallie Schenck, Charlotte; Miss Dorothy Hickman, Statesville; Miss Elizabeth Spencer, Waco, Texas; Miss Katherine Via, Wadesboro.

Pi Kappa Phi—Miss Miriam Weeks, Hendersonville; Misses Lotta Webb and Louisa Farrow, Charleston, S. C.; Miss Lib Darling, Greensboro; Miss Beth Sloop, Statesville; Miss Margaret Blue, Fayetteville; Misses Grace McKinnon and Lena Carter, Maxton, N. C.

Theta Upsilon Omega—Misses Louise Garibaldi, Julia and Evelyn Josephs, Ellen Hawkins, and Edith Cochran, Charlotte; Miss Julia Wolf, Salisbury; Miss Ruth Lowrance, Barium Springs.

Delta Theta Chi—Misses Mimms and Martha Mimms, Greer, S. C.; Misses Florence Mitchell and “Snoopee” McDonald, N. C. C. W.; Miss Elizabeth Hendon, Asheville.

Pyramid Club—Miss Louise Harriet, Salisbury; Misses Jane Gilliam and Theodosia Brock, Converse; Miss Frances Thompson, Mt. Gilead; Miss Ann Mawbry, Limestone College; Miss Charlotte Guy, Charlotte; Miss Julia Lusk, Hamlet.

Speakers Selected for Commencement

Preliminary arrangements for Class Day exercises, to be held as part of the Commencement celebration here on Monday, May 28th, were completed by the election of student speakers who will participate in the program. By the vote of the class, the following men were selected as speakers at the class day celebration: D. W. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va., class orator; J. S. McAlister, Greensboro, class day valedictorian; V. J. Guthrie, Charlotte, class day salutatorian; and J. P. McKnight, Shelby, class poet.

All of these men are prominent in campus activities. Hancock is editor of Quips and Cranks, class historian, and member of Omicron Delta Kappa Alpha social fraternity. McAlister is a member of Phi Kappa and Kappa Alpha social fraternity. McAlister is a member of Phi Beta Kappa scholastic fraternity and Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Guthrie stands well in his class scholastically and is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. McKnight, who ranks high in his studies, was recently elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He is also a member of Delta Theta Chi social fraternity. These speakers were selected on the basis of popular choice and are distinct from the valedictorian, salutatorian, and other speakers who are chosen on a basis of scholarship.

If You Want Your Gal, Pin Back Take Her a Bag o’ Lance’s Salted Peanuts Lance Packing Co., Inc. Charlotte, N. C.

The Commercial National Bank

Founded 1874

Charlotte, N.C.

Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs. 4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States Government. Make us your Executor. Capital, Surplus, Profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS

Twelve Men Represent Davidson at Scientific Meeting at Chapel Hill

Professor Patterson of Biology Department Gives Talk

Twelve Davidson professors and students of science recently attended the twenty-seventh annual meeting of the North Carolina Academy of Science and the spring meeting of the North Carolina section of the American Chemical Society, held at Chapel Hill, on April 27 and 28, 1928. Prof. Paul M. Patterson, of the Biology department, gave a lecture on “Our Common Mosses.” Professor Patterson’s lecture was the only one given by any Davidson representative. G. S. Brooks and John McPhaul, of the Senior class, were honored with an election to membership in the Academy. To attain this honor, a person must be actively interested in science or the promotion of science, must be nominated by two members of the Academy, and be elected by a majority vote of the executive committee. Dr. W. L. Porter, of the Davidson Biology department, completed a successful term as vice-president of the Academy. Dr. Porter was elected to this office at the twenty-sixth annual meeting, held at Davidson last year. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, professor of chemistry, was a member of the retiring executive committee of the Academy. Those Davidson men present were: Dr. Porter, Dr. Lyons, Professors Patterson and Puckett, of the department of biology; Professors Mebane and Roseberry, of the physics department; and J. W. Reid, G. S. Brooks, and John McPhaul, students especially interested in biology.

Officers of Delta Club Newly Chosen

At the regular monthly meeting of the Delta Club, April 25th, Bill Phifer, of Port Jervis,N.Y., was elected president for the coming year; A. L. DeCamp, of Booneton, N.J., vice-president, and Alfred Jackson, of Williamsport, Pa., secretary and treasurer. The retiring officers are: C. H. Dubose, of Pocomoke City, Md., president; Bill Phifer, vice-president, and Bill Wolfe, of Cincinnati, Ohio, secretary and treasurer. The Delta Club is composed of the members of the student body who reside in the states north of Virginia, West Virginia, Kentucky, and east of the Mississippi River. The name is derived from the fact that a Greek letter Delta may be made by connecting all the towns from which the charter members come. Phifer is a member of the Junior class and a leader in campus activities. Besides being one of the assistant basketball managers, he has been elected to the Pan Hellenic Council for next year. He is a member of the Theta Upsilon Omega social fraternity.

CURRIE’S DASHES (Continued from page 2)
ner, Davidson, tied for second. Height—6 feet.
Shot Put—Leftwich, Davidson, first; Wolfe, South; Beall, South Carolina. Distance—40 feet 6 1-2 inches.
Discus—Lightsey, South Carolina, first; Leftwich, Davidson; Carson, Davidson. Distance—109 feet 3 3-4 inches.
Javelin—Griffin, South Carolina, first; Kennedy, South Carolina; Brown, Davidson. Distance—154 feet 7 inches.

H. B. Arbuckle, Professors O. J. Thies and Wooten, of the department of chemistry; Dr. I.

Orders which were taken for baseball, football and track pictures have arrived and they can now be had by calling by 204 Watts. The last and final order for pictures will be sent off Friday night, May 4th, and men who desire pictures of the different teams should see Bob Platt before that time.

Officers for Literary Societies Conclude Elections
At its election of officers for the fall term the Eumenean Literary Society elected W. L. Dumas, president; Murray Christian and Andrew Bird were chosen to fill the positions of vice-president and secretary, respectively. T. E. Hill was elected treasurer, and J. R. Graham, reviewer. A talk was made by John Q. Dickinson on the manufacture of salt.

The Philanthropic Literary Society elected Frank Hall, president; John Knox, vice-president, and Charles Kraemer, secretary. R. C. Grady was chosen first critic and C. H. Dubose, treasurer. T. H. Hall and E. G. Epes were chosen supervisors.

Both the men chosen to lead the societies next year have been outstanding in the field of forensics during their college careers. W. L. Dumas, the Eumenean president-elect, is from Talladega, Ala. He is an honor roll man and has been on the varsity debating team. In the year 1927-28 he served as treasurer of the Eumenean society. He was recently elected president of the Forensic Council.

Frank Hall, whom the Philanthropic Society chose to guide it during the next term, was secretary of literary society debating on the Forensic Council for the past year. He has been a varsity debater for two years and is an honor roll man.

Cornerstone to be Laid for Chambers
According to Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college, the cornerstone of the new Chambers building will be laid on Tuesday, May 29th, that being the date set for commencement exercises. A new era in the history of the college will be officially commenced when the cornerstone of one of the finest college buildings in the South is laid. It will be the official starter for placing Davidson College on the map as one of the finest and most completely equipped colleges for men in the South.

Although the date and time for the ceremony has been set, the program, which Dr. Martin said will be appropriate to the important occasion, has not as yet been worked out and will not be for about a week or ten days. Of course, whether or not the program takes place on the date set for it or not depends on whether the work on the building has been carried to that point by the date which has been set. Unfavorable weather conditions, however, are the only hindrance which is known at present that could possibly keep the work from materializing to that point by May 29th.

“DE LUXE” BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS
Mooresville, N.C.
CALL US FOR YOUR ORDERS.
Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
MANUFACTURERS OF

Ministerial Group Officers for Coming Year Are Chosen
“You have not dedicated your lives to preach ethics, you have not dedicated your lives to preach politics or current literature. You have dedicated your lives to preach Jesus Christ and Him crucified,” declared Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college, as he delivered a vital message to the Ministerial Band Sunday afternoon. Dr. Martin’s talk to the ministerial timber was concerned with salvation—salvation for the past, present and future—with the minister as God’s agent of salvation to man.

Following the talk of the afternoon, election of officers for the coming year was in order. E. P. Moye will lead the band as president, F. D. Miller is to be vice-president, while A. B. McClure will be secretary-treasurer of the organization. The retiring officers are P. P. Thrower, president; T. E. Hill, vice-president, and A. M. Warren, secretary-treasurer.

Arbuckle Attends Annual Convention
The 1928 convention of the Scabbard and Blade was held April 26th through April 28th, at Ohio State University, at Columbus, Ohio. This was the sixteenth national convention of the Scabbard and Blade. Representatives from 70 companies were present at the convention, Howard Arbuckle, captain of company, being representative of the Fifth Regiment, M Company, of the First Regiment, was the entertaining company at the convention. Many interesting speakers were present at the convention, among whom were Captain Skaates, of the First Regiment; Major Mahin and Colonel Bush. For entertainment a smoker was held on Thursday evening, April 26th, at Fort Hayes.

Mr. and Mrs. John William Armstrong, of Belmont, announce the engagement of their daughter, Virginia, to Mr. James Bartlett Hall, ’25. The marriage is to be solemnized in June. Mr. Hall, who is the son of Rev. J. K. Hall, of Belmont, is now connected with the First National Bank of that city.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see M. P. Crawford
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

ICE CREAM
TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE!
We have at all times a complete stock of New Orthophonic Victrolas, Brunswick Panatropes, Victor and Brunswick Records. New Records Every Friday. A Complete Line of RCA Radios from $69.50 to $895.
Parker-Gardner Co.