: THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1928

MANY COLLEGES ARE VISITED BY J. M. APPLEBY

James M. Appleby has just returned from a week’s trip in behalf of the Gamma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity. He visited a number of colleges and universities, especially in Tennessee, where there are groups petitioning for chapters in the fraternity or making inquiries about it. His purpose was to investigate whether there were mutual grounds for admitting them and to inspect the laboratories.

Jim was last year worthy grand alchemist of the fraternity, or in ordinary language, president. On account of his fine work last year, he was asked by his successor, Dr. T. R. Leigh, noted Florida chemist, to undertake this work. Among the schools he was requested to visit were Vanderbilt, Sewanee, Auburn, and Georgia Tech.

The fraternity was originally organized at Davidson but has since grown to be a Southern-wide organization. Last year Davidson was well represented in its officers, for out of five there were three from Davidson. Besides Jim Appleby, there were Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, grand chancellor, and Mr. Oscar J. Thies, keeper of the cult. Dr. Arbuckle last year resigned as chancellor in favor of Dr. Ross, of Auburn, as he believed that the offices should be scattered among leading Southern chemists.

First Ballots Cast for Heads of Athletic Asso.

The annual elections for the Athletic Association are now under way, having begun Saturday morning under the direction of W. O. Nesbit, present head of the Davidson Athletic Council. No definite elections have been made as yet, only preliminary balloting having been dispensed with. The finals will be run off during the first days of this week and results will be announced at the earliest possible moment.

A president is to be chosen from the rising Senior class, two vice-presidents from the rising Junior class, and a secretary-treasurer from the coming Sophomores. Nesbit opened the proceedings by reading a complete list of letter men from each class. As is well known about the campus, a man, in order to hold office in the association, must be a letter man, a wearer of the “D.” The first round of voting was run off Saturday morning, each man voting for the athlete of his choice, and it is understood that the men polling the most votes will be run again in the finals this week.

Election to the presidency of the Athletic Association is one of the highest honors on the “hill,” and carries with it a very great responsibility. In filling the requirements of the office, the man must not only be an outstanding athlete, but must be the sort of man to win the confidence of the whole student body. A successful athletic association means a great deal to the fulfillment of an ideal college year. The present officers of the Davidson Council are W. O. Nesbit, president; J. W. Mellon and Ed. Wilson, vice-presidents; C. R. Pritchett, secretary-treasurer.

Logan to Conduct Mission Institute

Next week a mission institute will be conducted by Dr. Charles H. Logan, who is now a missionary on furlough from Japan, and who is teacher of Bible this year at Agnes Scott. He will commence the institute by conducting the Sunday night vesper service. Dr. Logan will speak to the student body during chapel Monday morning, and will conduct the different classes all day Monday and Tuesday. All men who are interested in the work of missions will be given the opportunity at this time to speak with Dr. Logan. He will speak at a meeting open to both students and townspeople Tuesday night. At all these meetings, there will be discussed some phase of missionary work or mission projects. During the week there will be displays of mission literature both of home and foreign fields.

Tenn. Hold Meeting

The members of the Tennessee Club were tendered a sumptuous banquet by the neophytes of that organization last Friday night in the upper room of the “Eu” hall. About 15 men from the Volunteer State were present to enjoy the festivities, and the gathering was unanimously a success. Charles Trabue presided in his usual masterful manner, though little business was transacted as the meeting was largely of a social nature.

The program of the evening included impromptu talks by several members on various and diverse topics, all of vital interest. However, the pièce de résistance was the trial of Freshman Burch, arrested on the heinous charge of being an inhabitant of Memphis, Tenn. The prosecution was handled by Attorney Scott N. Brown, while the defense was undertaken by F. D. Miller, a capable young lawyer. After much brilliant argumentation by both lawyers and severe cross-examination of the defendant by Attorney Brown, Judge Mac King, after a short lecture on the magnitude of the crime, sentenced the prisoner to a three months’ residence in Nashville. Burch heard his doom with praiseworthy equanimity, and in a touching speech, thanked Judge King for his leniency displayed in not sending him to Chattanooga, and tearfully promised never again to be guilty of being born in Memphis.

After a short round-table discussion, the club adjourned to meet again on some date just before final examinations.

“Y” Column

The speaker at Y this week will be Dr. Chas. H. Logan, a missionary on furlough from Japan, teacher for this year at Agnes Scott, and lecturer on missions at Columbia Seminary. This most capable man will appreciate any suggestions or ideas in regard to the work of the Y. Any new methods of work that may prove helpful would be welcomed.Service for the new officers will be on April 15th, and it is hoped that a large number will be present to help make this an impressive service. The Vocational Guidance Institute has come to a close now, and there is quite a bit of speculation as to the actual results of the institute. The Y feels that great good can come from such a series of meetings and hopes that they proved of use and help to some men in the Student Body. Even though only a few were benefitted, the Y will feel well repaid for the work and trouble in arranging for such talks. Much credit for the excellent way in which the institute was carried out is due to Julian Lake, who did a great deal of the work in putting on such a program and deserves the appreciation of the Y and the whole Student Body. 

The little booklet called “Why the Y?” which the Y Board of Control instructed the secretary to get up, will soon be out and ready for distribution. The volume is being edited by John Ely and contains a complete report of the work of the Davidson Y in all its phases. Copies will be given to the Trustees, Faculty, and friends of the College, and to any student desiring one. It will have much valuable information concerning the Y and ought to be of interest to a great number of men. 

The Student Body is to be most heartily congratulated on the fine choice of men it has made to lead the Y in its work for the next year. The officers for the coming term are excellently fitted for their work and have the qualities of Christian gentlemen that are most to be desired. So in view of such facts, the Y feels that it has been greatly blessed in the men who will be in charge of it next year and rests assured that careful, conscientious work will be done in all fields of endeavor. The new president is at present working on his cabinet for the new year.

Seven Men Answer Cheer Leader Call

Cheer Leader Myers recently issued a call for all Sophomores wishing to try out for assistant cheer leaders to report to him. The following Sophomores answered the call: R. D. Croom, C. H. Dubose, W. A. Nicholson, A. T. Edelman, D. F. Gaffney, E. S. Heefner, and R. T. Nunan. These men were given some practice last Friday when they assisted Myers in leading the cheering at the baseball game. During this spring and the early part of next fall, these men will be under the leadership of Myers. This practice this spring will be of great help to the men for the football season next fall, according to Myers. The election of assistant cheer leaders will not be until next fall, at the opening of school. Now is the time though for all those wishing to try out to make their wishes known to Varsity Cheer Leader Myers. Myers wants to urge other men to come out for assistant cheer leader. It is not too late for other men to come out. The sooner the men come out, the better work they will be able to render; but it is not too late. “Those men who cannot contribute school spirit by coming out for athletics and those who have a gift that way should come out and try their talent in leading the cheering,” another statement of the cheer leader. Myers is very anxious for more men to come out.

STATISTICAL JUMPS

In front of West Dormitory is an insurmountable wall that extends to the height of three feet. Every day the students, in going to classes, being too lazy to go around, attempt to jump up on this wall, risking broken arms, fractured legs, and even broken backs and necks, not to mention innumerable bruises. Each student jumps up this wall on average four times per day, and, counting out Sunday, twenty-four jumps per week, ninety-six per month, or approximately eight hundred and sixty-four jumps per college year. Since each jump is three feet high, the student has jumped 2,502 feet. Physics gives that work equals the force times the distance. Suppose the student weighs 150 pounds. Then 150 times 2,502 equals 375,300 foot-pounds of energy wasted in one year alone. Just imagine that wasted in the four years of his college life; he jumps 1.956 miles high and expends 1,501,200 foot-pounds of energy. This does not even take into consideration that he jumps back down a distance of 1.956 miles.

THE SUN NEVER SETS ON CHESTERFIELD'S POPULARITY!

Popular in all four corners of the earth! Chesterfield’s good taste has won the goodwill of the world. There is hardly a country in either hemisphere where Chesterfield will not be found a leading seller among American cigarettes.