Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN November 1, 1928.

ALUMNI

ROBERT F. PHIFER WILLS $30,000 TO THIS INSTITUTION

Alumnus Who Died October 16 Bequeathed This Sum to His Alma Mater

WAS IN 1869 CLASS

College Officials Believe Tendency to Place Davidson in Wills is Growing—Five-Year Record

Announcement was made in New York Monday that the late Robert F. Phifer, an alumnus of Davidson College in the
class of 1869, an account of whose death was given in last week’s Davidsonian, had bequeathed to this institution the
sum of $30,000, which is to be paid to the college upon the death of a sister. This news was
received with elation by officials of Davidson, since they had no intimation that the alumnus had placed Davidson in his
will.

The estate of Mr. Phifer is valued around $200,000, and most of his fortune is to go to education and
other worthy institutions. The testator, a painter of admitted abilities, bequeathed all of his paintings, etchings, and engravings to the
North Carolina State Art Society, designated $30,000 to the public library at Concord at the death of four cousins at
Montreat, N. C., and the Concord cemetery is to be beautified by the erection of a memorial gate and chapel
through the will of Mr. Phifer.

For the past several years, college officials have maintained that former students of the college are more and more remembering
their Alma Mater in wills. The announcement of Mr. Phifer’s gifts bears out this contention. In the last five years,
approximately a quarter of a million dollars has been left to the college upon the death of individuals, and the
greater portion of this has come from alumni.

One of the principal objectives of the alumni office at Davidson is to influence alumni to place Davidson College in
their wills, setting aside five percent of the estate as a minimum. This idea is being carried through in the
local alumni association meetings, and in a proposed alumni bulletin, this thought will be presented to the entire alumni constituency
through an editorial.

Associations Will Meet in Asheville And in Greensboro

Meetings Are Scheduled in Those Cities on November 8th and 9th Respectively

Two local alumni meetings have been definitely scheduled before Homecoming Day—one at Asheville and another at Greensboro. The former will
be held on Thursday night, November 8th, and the one in Greensboro on the following night, which is upon the
eve of the State-Davidson contest in that city.

At the meetings this fall, the alumni are being given a cordial invitation to return to the campus for the
Homecoming event on November 17, mention is made of the commencement and reunions next June, up-to-date statistics are given to
the alumni about the college, and an open forum discussion is conducted.

The Asheville meeting, known as the Western North Carolina Alumni Association, includes the alumni living in that city, as well
as those in Hendersonville, Brevard, Black Mountain, Candor, Swannanoa, Weaverville, Waynesville, and any other town in that immediate section. The
Greensboro organization includes alumni in the “Gate City” and High Point. Ruffner Campbell, ’10, is president of the Asheville group,
with J. H. Sample, '18, vice-president, and J. H. McConnell, Jr., ’25, secretary-treasurer. The present president of the Greensboro association
is John McAlister, ’19, vice-president, Rev. Dwight Chalmers, ’20, and secretary-treasurer, Worth Wil- Prices $5.00 and $6.00.

Pertinent Facts

DAVIDSON ALUMNI INJURED IN AUTO ACCIDENTS LATELY

The mailing list in the alumni office at the present time totals 3,741 names with the possibility of more than
150 other alumni being added during the year. Several hundred men were traced during the summer months. Reservations for tickets
to the Carolina-Davidson game on Homecoming Day have already been received from alumni in Philadelphia, Pa., Toledo, Ohio, Huntington, W.
Va., Roanoke, Va., and a number of points in South Carolina and North Carolina. Approximately a dozen States are expected
to be represented here on November 17, and all but ten classes from 1870 through 1928.

Nineteen Davidson alumni have died since last Homecoming Day, according to records in the alumni office. Less than fifty alumni
voluntarily send in changes of address each year. The alumni office uses every means, excepting the detective agency, in tracing
them.

It is a significant fact that approximately 85 former students of Davidson are located in the city of New York,
or that immediate section. The number of men in the metropolis has doubled within the past two years. Many of
them had been in that city for some time, but have just been located.

The alumni office learned of 92 marriages of Davidson alumni during the past year, and believes that this would go
well over 100 if all information had been received from men in distant points. The newspapers of North Carolina are
the principal medium through which this information has been obtained.

Early this summer, statistics were prepared which showed that 123 students in Davidson last year either had brothers precede them,
or had brothers in Davidson at that time. The fathers of 48 boys had attended Davidson in the past.

Fifteen “class agent” letters have been sent out by the alumni office during the past two weeks. These letters are
written by some member of each class, and the office here mimeographs them and sees that a copy reaches every
man who entered with that group. Class letters have been sent to men of 1912, 1926, 1913, 1918, 1923, 1924,
1925, and 1880, 1881, 1892, 1895, 1899, 1900, 1901, 1908. Others are expected to follow before Homecoming Day, for that
is the central thought of each communication.

Four different types of lists are maintained in the alumni office—two for the mailing plates, arranged geographically and alphabetically, and
two for the permanent records—according to classes and geographically. Davidson alumni are located in 41 states, the District of Columbia,
and 19 foreign countries.

FORENSIC COUNCIL (Continued from page 1)

The league is not binding. The school may withdraw at any time on four months’ notice. The schools in the
league may debate with any other schools which are not in the league and they are not required to debate
with members of the league.

Charles Ritchie and Claude Doughton Both Seriously Injured in Mishaps

Two Davidson College alumni, Chas. T. Doughton, '26, of North Wilkesboro, and Charles Ritchie, have been seriously injured in automobile
accidents while en route to football games. Mr. Ritchie was headed toward Atlanta for the Tech-Notre Dame game affair ten
days ago, and Mr. Doughton was going to Chapel Hill for the Carolina-Georgia Tech contest last Saturday. Mr. Ritchie’s accident
occurred near Gainesville. He was driving a Buick roadster and in attempting to round a curve the car ran up
the side of the embankment and turned on its side. Mr.Ritchie and a Concord friend, Merlin Talbirt, were thrown clear
of the car, suffering a broken right arm and right leg and also severe lacerations across the abdomen. The latter
was not seriously injured. Mr. Ritchie was rushed to a Gainesville, Ga., hospital, where he will be for several weeks
before he can be moved.

The accident in which Mr. Doughton was a participant occurred near Burlington. He swerved his car into a bank in
an effort to avoid hitting another machine, and the car turned over, throwing its three occupants to the roadbed. Mr.
Doughton had several ribs broken, while one of the occupants suffered a broken leg and dislocated shoulder, the third member
of the party escaping with severe bruises.

Many Davidson friends of these two alumni regret the incidents and sincerely hope for their recovery as fast as possible
under the circumstances.

Engagements
Woodward-Cornelson
Mr. and Mrs. M. Cabell Woodward, of Roland Park, Baltimore, Md., announced the engagement of their daughter, Elizabeth, to Mr.
George H. Cornelson, Jr., of Clinton, S.C. No date has been set for the wedding.

Miss Woodward was graduated in 1927 from Converse College and Mr. Cornelson graduated from Davidson in 1922.

Other schools which are members of the league are: Birmingham Southern, Alabama Polytechnic Institute, University of Alabama, Southern College, University
of Florida, Emory University, University of Georgia, Mercer University, University of Louisville, Davidson College, Duke University, North Carolina State, University
of Mississippi, Oklahoma Baptist University, Sewanee, Baylor University, William and Mary, University of Texas.

He: “Last night at the mess, the Colonel left the table because a man told a story?”
She: “You don't say. What was the story?”

Alumni Personals
Mr. and Mrs. Jennings Earnhardt, of Columbia, S. C., announce the birth of a daughter, Betty Anne, on October 23.
Mr. Earnhardt is in the class of 1926.

Rev. D. P. McGeachy, Jr., '22, has received and accepted a call to the Capitol View Presbyterian Church in Atlanta.
Mr. McGeachy studied at Edinburgh, Scotland last year, after completing his work at Union Theological Seminary.

Friends will regret to learn of the deaths of Mrs. A. R. Shaw, mother of Egbert W. Shaw, '12, of
Chicago, IL; Mrs. Alfred B. Peeler, mother of Dr. C.N. Peeler, '07, of Charlotte, and Mrs. Margaret Graham Clark, mother
of Dr. George T. Clark, '09, of Bradenton, Fla.

Rev. S. B. Lyerly, '12, of Charlotte, was recently elected moderator of the Mecklenburg Presbytery. Dr. R. A. Dunn, honorary
alumnus, and H. N. Pharr, '87, were re-elected trustees of Davidson College at the same meeting.

Rev. James D. Spragins, '22, has accepted a call to the Central Presbyterian Church at Pine Bluff, Ark. He was
formerly located at Mena, Ark.

The correct address of L. A. Wooten, '22, is Bell Telephone Laboratories, Division of Chemical Research, 463 West St., New
York, N. Y.

James Allen, '11, was recently elected solicitor of the city of Charleston, S. C., defeating four other candidates for this
office.

Rev. C. S. Matthews, D.D., '95, has accepted a call to the First Presbyterian Church at Lumberton and will begin
his duties there on November 18. He is now located at Shelbyville, Ky.

Rev. Donald W. Richardson, D.D., '02, of Richmond, Va., filled the pulpit of the Second Presbyterian Church, in Charlotte last
Sunday.

Recent visitors at the alumni office were Harold C. Smith, '14, of Rockville, Md., and Dr. Walter Lingle, '92, of
Richmond, Va.

The board of trustees for the new junior college to be located at Maxton include, among others, Rev. W. M.
Fairley, D.D., '95, of Raeford; Rev. E. L. Siler, '87, of Maxton; and Rev. H. N. McDiarmid, '11, of Shelby.

Rev. J. Blanton Belk, D.D., '15, of Orlando, Fla., has been extended a call to the First Presbyterian Church at
Huntington, W. Va. His decision is not known.

H. B. Price, '25, is studying in the Princeton Graduate School, Princeton, N. J., this year.

Alumni Marriages
Chatham-Bailey
Mr. and Mrs. William T. Bailey, of Raleigh, announce the marriage of their daughter, Margaret Ann, to Mr. Owen A.
Chatham, Jr., of Winston-Salem, on Friday afternoon, October 19, at 5 o'clock, Winston-Salem, N. C. Mr. Chatham is a member
of the class of 1928, and is connected with the First Industrial Bank, Winston-Salem.

NINE MEN RECEIVE (Continued from page 1)
The freshman class is advancing rapidly in drill work and prospects are bright for an excellent year. Captain Geer and
Cullum have been whipping the band into shape and its performance Wednesday afternoon was very creditable. The parade Wednesday was
the first of the regular Wednesday afternoon ceremonies which will be continued throughout the year as weather permits.

Professor: “What are you chasing around like that for at this hour?”
Husband: “Um—I haven't a match, and I want to see my watch by this lightning bug.”

New Addresses
New addresses recently obtained are:
Dr. J. B. Woods, '18, Goldsby King Hospital, Chinkiang, China.
Rev. James Coleman, '06, Murat, Va.
Prof. J. C. Nixon, '08, 1306 Seventh Ave., Tuscaloosa, Ala.
A. H. McPhaul, '28, Box 174, Ellenboro, N. C.
J. L. Farries, '09, 1400 Third Ave., Asbury Park, Jersey City, N. J.
J. C. Deaver, '22, and R. R. Deaver, '22, at 1217 Richardson Place, Tampa, Fla.
A. C. McIntyre, '25, Box 312, New Market, Ontario, Canada.
Rev. T. H. Dimmock, '10, 1344 23rd St., Newport News, Va.
F. T. Franklin, '26, Seminary Hill, Texas.
H. H. Smith, '26, Whitesville, Ky.
J. C. Barrington, '26, 316 E. 88th St., New York, N. Y.
John A. Calhoun, '27, 33 E. Mt. Pleasant Ave., Mt. Airy, Philadelphia, Pa.
J. P. Hendrix, '25, 4101 Spruce St., Philadelphia, Pa.
J. McLaurin, '23, Biscoe, N. C.

ELIZABETH ARDEN
Announced that her exquisite VENETIAN TOILET PREPARATIONS for preserving and enhancing the beauty of the skin, may always be had
at WHITE DRUG COMPANY.

BRICKS DE LUXE ICE CREAM at STUDENT STORE
MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM CO.

Any man who wears John Wards will tell the same story. The leathers in John Wards are choicer, wear better.
The fit and workmanship are more expert. They have more style appeal to men of the better class. The prices?
$7 and $9. Have you ever tried asking your friends?

John Ward Men's Shoes INCORPORATED — REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark, and Philadelphia
On display By WM. H. BAILEY Davidson, N. C.
A good shoe to ask for by name —HORSEGUARDS
