Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor
Feature Editor
Assistant Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Circulation Mgr.
Subscription Mgr.
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President
Vice-President
Treasurer

THURSDAY, NOV. 8, 1928

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THOSE PROFESSORS

American colleges and universities are today crying aloud for radical revaluation and reform, says Dr. Glenn Frank, and upon the promptness and completeness of this reform the future of American civilization may in no small measure depend.

Dr. Frank charges that professors, among other things, do not know how to cross the “bridge between textbooks and students;” and that there is a “constant temptation to deal only with the heads of students, leaving their bodies and their spirits undisciplined and uninspired.”

“This college president is correct in that the tendency is in this direction; that the associations between teacher and pupil are not as intimate as they once were; that professors are more concerned, often, with affairs on the outside and irrelevant to college activity than with their teaching proper; and, finally, that they, so long as the student fulfills his required amount of work, reads sufficient parallel, doesn’t cut too many classes and does his best to look and act intelligently on class, feel that they have earned their pay check for the month and are perfectly content.

Dr. A. H. Quinn, of the University of Pennsylvania faculty, discerns improvement in the manner of teaching, as he writes in the Century Magazine, and so he and Dr. Frank might find grounds for argument. Dr. Quinn thinks that the professor’s work begins and ends in the classroom. He thinks that all means should be bent toward the success of the recitation. Older men, says he, speak of their teachers with more affection; the younger, with more respect. This is due, he believes, to the more efficient teaching of the present time. “Part of the time in the eighties and nineties was spent in keeping order,” he declares, “But now the teacher can devote his entire energy to presenting his subject in a proper manner. He must prepare it more carefully than his predecessor did. He is alive every minute of the hour, giving his best.”

Dr. Quinn has a higher regard for classroom efficiency with no emphasis whatever on any outside counsel or association between professor and student than for a somewhat lower standard coupled with the fellowship feature. His idea, if the interpretation is correct, is that everything which the student seeks and needs may be found in class.

Davidson's attitude is more or less in line with Dr. Frank's opinion. Here, it is the custom to divide the four classes into sections under the direction of some member of the faculty who is responsible for that group. That professor is the advisor and the counsellor; he is the one whom that student who needs aid should feel free to approach with his problems, for that is his duty and a privilege which he delights in fulfilling. There is a degree of hesitancy now, unlike former days when associations were more intimate between the groups, in using these men for this purpose; there is a feeling that they should be regarded as classroom instructors and nothing more.

Along this line, the Oklahoma Daily opines that “most professors are both interested and interesting. They have a youthful outlook because their entire work is with youth, and it is their privilege to guide as well as to instruct. Being a little older, a good bit wiser, and perhaps a trifle sadder than the student, the professor can understand the trend of thought and behavior of the younger, the more foolish, the more joyful.”

AFTER THE NOISE OF BATTLE

The most heated presidential campaign in history comes the tenth anniversary of the signing of the armistice which terminated the World War, the most terrible war of all time. Close on the heels of In 1918 the mind of the people was war-conscious and understood things only as they dealt either directly or indirectly with the great conflict; for the past months the American public has been interested in nothing, to any appreciable degree, which did not pertain to the political struggle.

The past campaign has wrought much that is evil. Many friends, unable to maintain their level-headedness, have parted because of their inability to recognize the rights of another to his views. They will soon see, however, as they realize that this is a democracy, that whether or not their choice was the people’s choice, personal prejudices must be submerged and allegiance must be pledged whole-heartedly to the new leader, Herbert Hoover, a man of proven ability, and of forceful and impassioned character.

With the approach of the tenth Armistice Day, people will turn from thoughts of hatred and ignoble acts prevalent in the campaign, to think together once more as they condemn war and strife; they will give thankful expression to their heartfelt joy that the past year has seen another stumbling block placed in the path of the great god War in the Kellogg-Briand pact; and they will give praise to a Power guiding the destiny of men.

In the matter of cleverness, in preference to the Chinese, we nominate the fellow who first thought of press conventions. If the visitors enjoyed being here as much as the hosts enjoyed having them, well—we wanted to start co-education. Good lookers too, n’est-ce pas?

SOLE OWNER OF MY NAME

The worth of “expressive and catchy titles in increasing the value of books and essays has recently been appraised by a lecturer at the college. The worth of a powerful name in achieving the seemingly impossible has recently been demonstrated by a citizen of the South. Two years ago the people of the State of Tennessee were faced on every hand by bold and bitter political advertisements signed, “Clarence Saunders—Sole Owner My Name.” A few years ago, Mr. Saunders was not only the sole owner of his name, but his name was his sole property. The organized and owner of the famous “Piggly-Wiggly” store had been deprived of every cent of his millions. A beautiful “pink palace” nearing completion had to go into the hands of the receiver, of right to use his name.

Current Comment
By John Brown

Hotchpot
By W. K. Pritchett

Something over four centuries ago Christopher Columbus received the equivalent of about $320 for discovering the United States. The present wealth of this country has been estimated at from 300 to 325 billion dollars. The economic value of this country has made an enormous increase, but we can better understand this increase when we consider the work and sacrifice contributed by the pioneers, and the less spectacular but never the less important part that engineers, and cities.

Two weeks ago Capt. C. B. D. Collyer, pilot, and Harry Tucker, owner, crossed minutes, famed and fog. Thus two more fliers have joined. If someone could find a way of overcoming fog for aviation he would perform an humanity. Fog is the outstanding obstacle to aviation which cannot be overcome by technical engineers.

It is announced that the Chinese Government has appointed Henry Ford, Prof. J. W. Jenks, Owen D. Young, Prof. Edwin R. A. Seligman and Robert N. Harper as honorary advisers to China during the reconstruction period. In this period of reconstruction China needs good, sound principles to work on to help her throw off the old weather-beaten customs and turn to new reconstructive work. May these men as well as others play an important part in making China a progressive, modern nation.

And now The Outlook comes forward with the statement that Sacco and Vanzetti were innocent of the crime for which they were electrocuted. This contention is accompanied by a lengthy proof, along with another man’s confession, with a criticism of it. This proof has been submitted by the editor of the Outlook to the governor of that state for his consideration. It remains to be seen whether this statement will bring a revival of demonstrations in favor of the convicted men and their doctrine.

Last week the Paramount moving picture corporation ordered a number of rubber beads, pearls, and jewelry to be used by its stars and extras. This step had to be taken to check the clashing and roaring of the jewelry while sound pictures were being taken.

At the University of Cincinnati an idea for introducing a new course has been considered. This course would be called “mopology” and would be along the lines of janitorship. It would take up efficiency, in keeping corners clean, looking after the furnace economically, and other such forms of work.

Benito Mussolini has announced that foreign words such as “club,” “cocktail,” and “trolley” which have crept into Italian, shall be expelled from the language.was played by settlers who built homes, villages, and towns across the continent from New York to Los Angeles in the record time of 24 hours and 51 minutes. Last week they tried for another record by a west to east flight in the Yankee Doodle, but crashed to their death in Arizona in a blinding rain, joining the ranks led by Nungesser and Coli. They provided immeasurable service to aviation.

In a court fight, this man won. Now, only a few years since, an announcement is made that Clarence Saunders has formed a corporation backed by 20 eastern capitalists with resources amounting to $200,000,000. A great section of the country is already covered with stores, and soon the entire United States will be dotted with the chain stores of this organization, and in front of each branch will be painted, “Clarence Saunders — Sole Owner of My Store.”

Have you read that extraordinary story about the donkey of Valencia? As that donkey, pulling a cart containing his master and mistress, arrived in the middle of a crossing, he planted himself firmly on the rails and refused to be moved. A train smashed the cart, killed the two peasants, and did not spare the donkey. Victor Hugo tells of a similar donkey in “The Legend of the Ages.” But Hugo’s donkey was different. Though beaten mercilessly by his owner, he refused obstinately to advance, for his next step would have crushed a toad that was sitting in the middle of the road, eyeing him with melancholy blinks. Victor Hugo’s ass had a reason. Balaam’s ass had an even more powerful motive for resisting the violent urgings of its master. An angel barred the way, and the donkey alone saw him. But what about the donkey of Valencia? We have always championed the sweetness, the patience, and even the intelligence of the donkey. But this donkey of Valencia threatens to destroy our faith. What was going on in his brain when the train came roaring by? That we shall never know, and therein lies probably his only excuse.

Many candidates, now out of the race, wish they got more out of it. Next Sunday, November 11, Poland celebrates its tenth birthday anniversary. It was on the original Armistice Day in 1918 that Poland, after having been divided for more than a century among Russia, Austria, and Germany, again became an independent nation. Americans should entertain great interest in the life of this resurrected nation. Most of the $70,000,000 loan that has put Poland on a firm financial footing came from the United States. This country furnishes 16 percent of all Polish imports, ranking second to Germany only. In size, Poland, with 150,000 square miles, is sixth among European countries. It has a population of approximately 30,000,000, a total exceeded only by Russia, Germany, France, and Italy. America’s traditional friendship for Poland dates from the time of the American Revolution, when two young Poles, Kosciuszko and Pulaski, gave their services to General Washington and commanded American troops.

The war and election in Nicaragua are over. The Marines had the arms and the rebels the legs. The American lumber industry, so ruinously devastated until the recent enactment of federal laws, may well take a lesson from Poland. Poland’s lumber industry, based on timber lands covering 52,000 acres, was begun in the 10th century. A tree must be 90 years old before it is cut. Their entire forest area is more than 22,000,000 acres.

Congress sits by the Potomac instead of the Schuylkill because of bugs. Dr. R. C. Williams, Jr., president of the American Entomological Society, says Washington was selected as the capital of the United States instead of Philadelphia because of the ravages of mosquitoes carrying yellow fever. All of which goes to show that even “skeeters” make history.

Editor’s Note: This department is provided for those who care to give vent to their feelings along almost any line. Just so long as the writing conforms with the Faculty rules imposed on publications and the author is known to the editor—signature preferred—the article will be published.

OPEN FORUM

HOW TO BUM, IN ONE LESSON

Mr. Editor: I should like to submit the following code of ethics for students who “bum” rides to and from Davidson:

1. Never infringe upon a motorist's hospitality by crowding upon him more students than he expected or than he is willing to carry.
2. To sit in a man’s car, as his guest, and make fun of him behind his back is unpardonable.
3. If someone is on the road, looking for a ride when you arrive, it is, to say the least, selfish and tactless to force your company upon him without an invitation. One man stands a hundred percent better chance of getting a ride than two.
4. It is not a slick trick to sneak around and take a position on the road above a man who was there before you. It is both unethical and boorish.
5. Always remember that Davidson is being judged by your conduct.

One of the “Bums.”

One of the purposes of this convention was to draw the collegiate journalist into a closer personal relationship. It did. Just like a Young People’s Conference. Every Davidson Delegate and many who were peekers-through-the-key-hole at the Convention formed very pleasant companionships with many journalists—those of the fairer species. Personally, though, we are glad it’s over. Not that we are adverse to the charms of fair spreaders of the printer’s ink, but it was awfully embarrassing passing these dames on the campus and unconsciously greeting them with the old, familiar, “Hi, Gentlemen!” If we did it once, we did it as many times as an editor uses plural I’s in a column of a so-called editorial. Davidson’s most progressive newspaper enjoyed their company and appreciated the service of Charlotte (N. C.) merchants in helping entertain our guests.

“My! It’s getting so a couple can’t neck in public any more without being stared at something terrible.”
“The boyfriend and I have solved that problem. We take a suitcase and go down to the Grand Central Station.”
—Carnes.

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Convention is over, but the malady lingers on. Roses are blue, Violets are pink, after the thirteenth drink.
—Virginia Reel.

“It’s all right to know your onions, but don’t dare breathe them to a soul.”

Praises to St. Patrick, the election (the one for President of the land of the so-called free and the would-be-brave) is over. We haven’t found a soul weeping over the results. Everyone says, “Well, I thought so,” and “It was just like I said,” and seem to be glad that the radio broadcasting stations will have something besides bull on the air. So let the broadcasting stations have their music, stock reports, football results, etc., and pen all the BULL up and address it to: “Yours for bigger and better bulls.” And we don’t mean the committee on stock raising or the chief of police.

If you're ever in Constantinople, look us up. Thank you.

Everything in its place, is the idea. Both beautiful and dumb, my own true love must be, Beautiful, so I’ll love her; dumb, so she’ll love me.

QUOTATIONS FROM THE BISHOP

“We agree with our Scotch friend who never took a drink from a bottle because it had to be tipped.”

First Collegiate—“Whatsa matter; girl not coming?”
Second Nut—“Aw, she’s coming, but she can’t even send a telegram without saying ‘Stop’ every sentence.”

A prominent funeral establishment in a large Southern city sends free to those who desire a weekly humorous magazine. What’s the big idea, we’d like to know? Trying to make the patients die laughing? Or die from sheer disgust at their old jokes?

Contemporary Thought

UPON CHAPEL GOING

Daily Trojan: “I Need Thee Every Hour.” Such were the words which rang out in chapel today. Contrary to organized opinion around the campus, our chapel services are regularly attended by many who made this brief service of a hymn, prayer, and meditation with a brief address as much a part of their daily work as attending any class. Since compulsory chapel has been abolished, there is not a trace of any childish stunts or irreverence. However, one can see all types: the extremely religious, the curious, the foreign student, the freshman who was compelled to go by some Squire, the girl and fellow who wish each other’s company, but don’t possess a car to park in for 25 minutes. Religious life has always played an important role in the life of a university. From medieval Paris, Louvain, and Oxford to the New World of Harvard and Yale and much later to S. C., religion has been the cornerstone. It is a well-known fact that Notre Dame's teams, generally one by one and on their own volition, go to their famous shrine before any game—not that they may win, but that their personal honor may be kept representing their Alma Mater. Southern California is really a heritage of all of this religious thought of the ages. Though severed definitely from any religious institution, we have more spiritual welfare and brotherliness than can be found in any State university.

BOOTLEGGING

Daily Kansan: The worm has started on its way through our new quiz books. Bootlegging in quizzes has begun. A student who came to the University with a fair record of accomplishment had saucer eyes when an upperclassman asked him for help in one of his first hour quizzes. College is the hardest part of life. We work hard spending father’s money and driving his car, and drop in at the library once in a while. Thus we prepare ourselves for the marketing of peanuts or the measurement of Sunday suits as a profession. A pessimistic view perhaps, but the old Spanish custom exists here as well as in other universities. When students have such high ideals, the Professors’ joy must be unconfined. College is an activity the average student entered because everybody else was “doing” it. The motto is to get by with as little work as possible and get the average that will get you in an organization. College is a sideshow, as one father said, “My son is attending the Beta Eta fraternity.” Therefore we have the problem of bootleg information in quizzes.