FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 9, 1928 No. 18

Construction to Start Immediately on North Wing of New Chambers: Northern Wing Will Provide Facilities for All Sciences

$600,000 COST

Entire Structure May be Completed and Ready for Occupancy by January 1, 1929

With contracts already awarded for the northern wing of the magnificent new Chambers Memorial Building, and the possibility of construction being also commenced on the central and final unit of the building before the close of the present college term, friends and patrons of Davidson College appear confident that the entire structure will be completed and ready for occupancy by January 1, 1929.

The new building, which will command an imposing position on the Davidson campus, will at its completion represent an investment of approximately $600,000, and will be one of the most modernly-equipped academic buildings in the southeast. It will replace the old Chambers Building, which was built in 1860 and stood as the center of campus life until its destruction by fire in 1921. Four lofty granite columns, which supported the archway of the former Chambers Building, are still standing on the campus and will be retained as a special memorial even after the completion of the new structure.

One unit, the south wing, of the new Chambers Memorial Building was completed in 1924 at a cost of approximately $200,000, and has been in use since its completion. In the completed wing are housed all recitation rooms, administrative and faculty offices. This wing, which is less than one-third the size of the proposed building, was constructed so as to permit an annexation of the remaining central and northern units.

(Continued on page 8)

Hard-Fought Match Won by Davidson Wrestlers

Davidson Defeats University of North Carolina 13 1-2 - 7 1-2

Davidson wrestlers last Saturday decisively won over the University of North Carolina wrestlers by a score of 13 1-2 to 7 1-2. The Wildcats won four of the seven matches and Carolina won two, the other match being a draw. All of the matches were won by a decision, not a single fall being registered. The six bouts that were won, by one side or the other, required an extra period each to decide the match.

The best match of the afternoon was in the 145-pound class, with Captain Abbott, of Carolina, matched against Captain Garrison, of Davidson. Garrison barely missed getting a decision over Abbott, after two extra periods had been fought, missing a decision by only one second. Abbott has never been defeated during his career as a college wrestler, and Garrison has never lost a match within his own class.

Flythe started the bout with a victory over Moore, of Carolina, and was followed by Brown winning from Zealey, of Carolina. Carolina won the next match when Thompson defeated Herriott. Following this bout Abbott and Garrison went two extra periods to end in a draw. In the three remaining matches Davidson won two and lost one, when Christenbury and Hill defeated Moore and Houghton, and Baker lost to Twyford.

Summary:
115 lb. class—Flythe, Davidson, won over Moore, Carolina, with a time advantage of 3 minutes 27 seconds.
125 lb. class—Brown, Davidson, won over (Continued on page 8)

Sketch of New Chambers Building

Architect's drawing of new Chambers building as it will look when completed. The building, representing an investment of more than $600,000, will replace the historic old Chambers Building, built in 1860 and destroyed by fire in 1921. The above drawing shows the south wing (right), which was completed in 1924 and is now in use by the arts department; also the central and northern units, construction of which is expected to be completed by January 1, 1929.

Vocational Guidance Plans Six Meetings

Beginning with the week of February 13-18 and lasting through a period of six weeks, there will be afforded to Davidson students a rare opportunity for help in the choosing of their life work. This opportunity will be in the form of the annual Vocational Guidance Institute which is to be conducted by the local Y. M. C. A.

The purpose of this institute is to guide in the choice of professions the young men of the college who have as yet made no decision along this line. The general plan of the institute is to present to the students one important vocation each week. The professions which will be discussed in the order in which they will come are: (1) the ministry, (2) business, (3) journalism, (4) law, (5) education, and (6) medicine. These were chosen because they are the most important ones contained in a list of the vocations most frequently selected by Davidson men.

In order to present these to the students the “Y” will bring to Davidson each Wednesday night of the six weeks’ period some prominent man of high character who is outstanding in a particular line of work. This man will set before the men of the college a general idea of the profession which he represents and he will show them just what the college man may expect of it.

In addition to the one central speaker who will address the entire group of students, there will be a number of leaders of the same profession with whom Davidson men may at any time during the week have private interviews and personally discuss individual problems. In this way the whole field of the work will be taken up by the speakers and then filled out by the counsellors.

The idea of such a Vocational Guidance Institute is a very new one in the South, where a few of the more important schools hold them each year. As a part of the “Y” program here at Davidson the institute received its start last year. It is the wish of those in charge of the work that it be understood clearly that the purpose of this series of speeches is not to try to force any man to come to a decision on any one vocation, but it is rather to give a general and comprehensive view of the en- (Continued on page 8)

SEMESTER LENGTHENED

A mistake in regard toThe date of commencement was made in the last catalogue published by the college. This edition gave the date of the Commencement Day exercises and awarding of diplomas as being the last Wednesday in May. This mistake was noted and brought to the attention of the faculty at their recent meeting, and corrected. The exercises will be held on the usual date—the first Wednesday in June. Examinations will close June 2nd, and the baccalaureate sermon will be preached on the following Sunday.

Basketeers Defeat Two Schools on Local Floor
Wofford and Elon Conquered by Davidson Quintet

Showing a complete reversal of form, the Wildcats took Wofford into camp by the score of 53-31 on the night of February 1st. Saturday night Davidson defeated the Elon Christians 40-37. Captain Wilson, McAuley, and Pritchett played in mid-season form as the Red and Black won its first collegiate game of the 1928 season. Starting off with a bang, the ’Cats drew away from the Terriers in the opening minutes of play and at half-time were leading by 32-12.

As the second half opened, Wofford took a new lease on life and proceeded to chalk up 10 points before the ’Cats scored. Things began to look bad, and the lead of the ’Cats was being steadily cut down, when Pritchett and Wilson, aided by McAuley, began to loop them in, and thus pulled the game out of the fire in good time. Davidson looked like a real basketball team for the first time this year. Pritchett was high point man with 15, followed by Captain Wilson and McAuley with 13 and 12 respectively. For Wofford, Captain Lockman was best, ringing up 14 markers and playing a fast floor game.

Continuing their winning streak, the Wildcats snatched a spectacular and thrilling game from the Elon Christians on the night of February 4th, by the count of 40-37. The Christians brought a fast and dangerous team to Davidson and came very close to (Continued on page 8)

Lacy and Weisiger to Inaugurate Second Series of Vocational Guidance Meetings
Professor Vowles’ Textbook Lauded

Dr. Guy Richard Vowles, head of the German department at Davidson, has recently published a textbook on Norse Literature that bids fair to place him in the most select ranks of the college editors. Besides his work in German, Dr. Vowles takes a great interest in all language work, and has written several translations in various tongues, some of which have received high compliments. Jakob A. O. Larsen, prominent Ohio State University teacher, says that Dr. Vowles’ current text, “Bjornstjerne Bjornson’s En Glad Gut,” is one of the most exceptional texts on Norse literature ever published.

The Davidson professor’s edition of what is probably the most popular of all Bjornson’s novelettes of peasant life has been given a second printing as the result of an insistent demand on the part of students and teachers of Scandinavian literature. Dr. Larsen, in the current issue of “The American Oxonian,” declares that Dr. Vowles’ new book is eminently teachable, due in part to the carefully constructed vocabulary, helpful notes, and the composition and conversational exercises prepared by its editor. Says Dr. Larsen: “The popularity of the work is such that it is unthinkable that any teacher of Norse should fail to include it among the first texts to be placed in the hands of students of the language.”

The book, in addition to being used as a text in countless high schools and colleges throughout the nation, has attracted a great many more mature students of Norse literature, and it seems that its popularity will continue to rise. It is a distinct honor to Davidson that one of her professors has been able to publish such a splendid work for American colleges. Dr. Vowles, already well known as the head of the German department, will receive much recognition as the result of his new book, and it is probable that he will publish several more in the future. The fact that his text on Norse literature has already gone into its second printing seems to assure the fact of its ac- (Continued on page 8)

Dr. Ben R. Lacy Will Arrive Here Sunday
START WEDNESDAY
Mr. Kendall Weisiger Will Speak to Students in Chapel on Monday Morning

To better help the Davidson College boy to solve the one question that sooner or later inevitably confronts him, the Y. M. C. A. has secured the services of six eminent authorities in their own lines of work to speak in student meetings, and on the types of life work regarded most desirable at Davidson. And to start the whole series, Mr. Kendall Weisiger will speak to the students in chapel on Monday morning next, introducing the second year's series of Vocational Guidance meetings for the students. Dr. Lacy will address the first of these, on the Ministry.

Mr. Weisiger is now the manager of the training and the employment department of the entire Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company. He is also initiating a course in vocational work, to assist college students in choosing life work, at Emory University, for which course credit is to be offered. From this it may be easily seen that Mr. Weisiger is not only an exceptionally able man but that he is indeed well adapted to work with boys of college age. He has sent special word ahead that he will be only too glad to have as many interviews with the students—preferably among the upper two classes—as time permits. He is due to leave Davidson some time Monday, but will return on Wednesday. Mr. Weisiger’s interviews will be held largely with those boys wishing to enter the business field, with an especial emphasis on the type of work in which he is engaged.

One of the main purposes of this series of vocational meetings is to have less public speaking and more individual interviews. For the speaker of the occasion, however, Dr. Ben Lacy, possibly the most popular speaker on the Davidson campus and certainly one of the most well liked and respected, will be present. He will speak to the students on Wednesday night, February 15th, in the Freshman chapel, at 6:45. (Continued on page 8)