THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1928

SPORTS

“MONKMEN” OFF ON STATE TRIP

SPORTS WILDCAT TRACKS

Following Davidson’s “MEN OF MIGHT” Along the Athletic Trail

By Zeb Long, Jr.

Nobody expected the Wildcats to win the State title on the track last Saturday. The fact that the Cats only qualified ten men as against, for instance, Carolina’s twenty-four, removed all hopes for a win. But what the Cats set out to do, that they did. The sprints were Davidson events, with none other than young John Currie, the pride and joy of eastern Carolina, leading the way. Those who expected Currie to equal or lower his best time of 9.6 on the 100 were probably disappointed to some extent. The “Flash” was content to win his long suits, 100 and 220, without especial effort, and let it go at that. There are many things that enter into the time in which a man runs his event. The competition, the crowd, the track, and by no means least, that much-discussed element of psychology. Last year, Currie had to beat MacPherson and Sides. This time, his opponents were hardly as strong, though Bruton of Duke ran his usual good race. It sounded mighty good to hear the announcer blare out, “Currie, of Davidson, holder of State record in 100 and 220, running in lane three.” Whittle lived up to expectations fully.

Leather Chasers in 11-9

Guilford Bows to Dulin’s Count in Erratic Battle

McInnis Driven From Mound by Volley of Hits

QUAKERS FIGHT

Wildcats, Outhit, Rally in Seventh to Win—Kugler in Relief Role

Saturday saw the Davidson Wildcats and the Guilford Quakers meet in a hectic ball game. After a long-drawn-out battle, the home boys emerged on the long end of an 11 to 9 score. The game was primarily a slugfest, filled with good, bad, and indifferent baseball playing. Concord was the scene of the encounter, the game having been transferred from Davidson to that city at the request of alumni. The Quakers started off with a bang, marking up three counters in the first two frames, but the ’Cats came back by pushing over five in their half of the second. Again, in the sixth, Pat Crawford’s men pulled a rally that seemed disastrous to the Red and Black cause. A barrage of base hits sent McInnis flying to the showers, and “Doc” Kugler took up the burden. However, before the dust settled, the Quakers had scored six runs and had grabbed the lead. Some determined hitting, and the wildness of Rabb enabled Monk’s crew to sew it up for good in the seventh. Hal Johnston’s two-sacker with the bases loaded proved to be the winning punch. Rabb, Guilford twirler, showed spurts of effectiveness, but was much too wild to be a winner, and so dropped his second game of the year to the Davidson men. Kugler showed class as a relief hurler, blanking the Quakers in the last three cantos. Erwin and Rabb, with three blows apiece, showed their teammates how to wield the willow, while Johnson was the only Wildcat to connect more than once. 

Box score and summary:

GUILFORD AB H PO A E
Griffin, ss 5 1 3 1 0
Taylor, cf 5 0 1 0 1
Marshall, rf 5 2 2 0 0
Gough, 3b 4 4 6 0 1
Mize, 2b 4 0 1 4 0
Bunn, lf 4 0 0 0 0
Parrish, 1b 4 1 8 0 0
Rabb, p 5 1 3 0 2
Cox, c 3 1 0 7 0
Melvin, c 4 2 3 6 0

Fresh Enjoy Field Day on Diamond

On last Thursday, May 3rd, the Davidson Wildkitten baseball nine put on their biggest slugfest of the year, defeating Coach “Bob” Mitchell’s Rockingham Hi team to the tune of 32 to 0. Marrow pitched a masterly game for the locals, allowing only three hits to the visiting lads during the whole contest. Armfield and Parker furnished the other end of the battery for the Freshmen. The Rockingham Hi lads, under the leadership of Coach “Bob” Mitchell, former Davidson athlete, failed to uphold the high standard of baseball performance set by them during previous years. Dawkin, who started the game for the visitors, was hit consistently. He was relieved by Sedberry, but the ’Cats had tasted blood and could not be stopped, amassing an overwhelming total of 29 hits. McCaskell caught for Rockingham Hi. Marks and Goodson led the hitting for the locals, gleaning a total of five hits each. Covington clouted for the circuit.

Rockingham Hi Davidson Fresh
Batteries: Dawkins, Sedberry and McCaskill; Marrow, Armfield and Parker.

Davidson Musicians To Play In Europe

The Davidson orchestra, familiarly known as the Sunnyland Serenaders, is planning to sail for Europe from Quebec on the 13th of June on board the Empress of Australia. The orchestra has been engaged by the Students’ Tours to play twice daily aboard ship, from 4:00 to 6:00 in the afternoon and from 9:00 to 12:00 in the evening. The orchestra will then tour the continent, visiting Germany and other countries. They will return to Quebec on the 13th of July.

Riddle—Ten potatoes and three persons. Answer—Mash them.

“Bridge, Bridge, Bridge,” said the studious economist, “you’ll kill yourself playing bridge.”
“Then be sure to bury me with simple honors.”

Re ae di > ao Harrison Eerie ee 45 15 '333 one of the most brilliant exhibitions of a a CW eey ERR OCS : 0: ee Mill : ant el "| Crawford, Ib _.------_- 5 2"110 .0 00 Miller ----------------_.-. @, od 7008 brilliant career, making this last 440 in Duli 4 498, unofficial for the 440 proper, but far | McConnell, rf --------- ee es A eae PEM, secard cai be bere McAulay, c --------__- 5 11 4 0 1 J. Kugler -----------.-___t 5417 315 ord set by Erwin the same Molnnihee 2 McConnell: = 22. 38 11 .289 afternoon. His lead at the finish a Up beensestnniiny dO 0 baal Fatty yards. mer METRE 000000 ep te. ooonencan garter 7 2 286 DOH eo cues cet. 35 11 92740 5 Ratchford ------____________ 55 14 255 A Henderson: .20200 222. 4 1 .250 j *Batted for Hinshaw in ninth, | Mexdows Coa An oes ae « 4 1 250 Had Currie been able to run the 440, he| Score by innings : Re Grawford .coo25 222. Joe ss 55 13 236 would probably be holding the State|Guilford -..........____ 120 006 000— 9 Littlejohn --___-___________ 26 5 227 record now. As it was Erwin of Duke | Davidson _-____.___________ 050 120 30x—11 McInnis —-____.__-__2____. 39 7. 179 a beautiful race to take the record Two-base hits: Taylor, Marshall (2),, MacAuley ~__-------_______ 46 6 .130 or himself, and the best Davidson could Johnson; three-base hits: Melvin, McCon- - —- — do here was a fourth place by Brohard. nell; stolen bases: Harrison, McInnis; win-} Team Average’ ._______- 474 127 .268 It is needless to say how much Harry joodykoontz was missed in this race, Despite the fact that McInnis was shelled out of the box and-treated roughtly before a home’ town crowd, the local diamond artists resumed winning ways at the ex- pense of Pat Crawford’s Quakers at Con- . cord Saturday. The~game should serve to put' the Cats in a winning frame of mind for their State trip next week. It will be plenty hard for Monk’s boys, but} . _ they are due to get a break now “and then. As yet thev’re had very few. © ning pitcher: Kugler; umpire: Miller, Not including Lenoir game. .of the left-handed hooks that they are cer- Wildcats Leave on Trip |“JOHN Q’S” DOPE to Duke, Elon, N.C. State and Wake Forest Lairs Monk Out to Revenge Defeats by ; te Clubs TEAMS DETERMINED Necessary for Hitters to Connect With Southpaw Pitching— Davidson Hurlers Look Good Followed by the best of Doctor Charlie's good luck charms; and carrying the hopes of one Monk Younger in their bat. bags,, Da- vidson’s contributions to the great American game of baseball entrained yesterday for their annual state tour. Smarting under de- feats-at the hands of certain southpaws among the so-called Big Five hurlers, the Wildcats left with the determination to “win or bust.” McInnis, Meadows, Henderson and Kugler are the twirlers upon whom Monk must depend to bring back the ’Cats’ self-respect in the state. Duke, Elon, Wake Forest and N. C. State are to be. met on successive days. At the Bull City, it is most likely that the southpaw slants of Jenkins or Belue will entertain the ’Cats. Briggs, Elon’s crack left-hander, who already has one Wildcat scalp under his belt, will likely hurl for the Christians, while Lan- ning, for the Demon Deacons, and Rowe or Allgood, for the Technicians, are probable mound choices. For the ’Cats, Johhnie Mc- Innis will draw two assignments, while Kug- ler and Meadows will likely start the two re- maining games. If the Wildcat infield gets over its recent tendency to become wobbly about the seventh inning, and the swatsmiths get on to a few Hark ye, and give ear with much attentiveness, for, verily, great things haye come to pass. In this, the reign “of GOOD KING SPORT, all true Wildcats are in line for a feast of much athletic lore, from the lowliest. horseshoe tournament to .the greatest gridiron contest. Yea, in this same periodical at seven day intervals, will a well- known sooth- sayer of the sport wheel, advance certain theories and propound much doctrine from the court of KING SPORT. This renowned person- age answereth ‘to the name | of Jotin Q.,*on of Dickinson, a native of the distant land of West Vir- ginia, and in truth, a knight of the Sport Table. He needeth no intro- duction, for a home run is his pass- port and a touchdown is his calling card on this, the campus of OLDE DAVIDSONE. ‘So again, give ear, give eye, give support, and, verily, ye shall marvel. SPORTS EDITOR. Dope is classified by the M.D.’s as a stimulant, so we hope that ‘this column will serve as a stimulant in the interests of good, clean sports. Mr. Rabb was: wild Saturday, so to make it a wild day, Davidson went wild, and gave Mr, Rabb a 11 to 9 beating. Coach’ Younger took his boys on another trip Wednesday. We hope that Jupiter Plu- vius will be fair so that.the boys will fare well on this little jaunt. ati ; ite cats tain to be called upon to face, then a ; lay night, on.May Day night, trip may be in the offing ly four licks: passed in what fll anti Seca been a 15-r6und bout. MM: ? ; ery rude Lithuyian, very rudel Conductor (to jad who | ench-Canadian ~ gentleman -three mnie fare) “Madam, how old Ap v1 the jaw and one to the gid-sec- s‘your son?” ho Me. Delaney gave the fourth tap by ; pping anvas for the count of_ ten Trate Passenge {: an ust fave.” Mr. St v seems to have spwiled a go Conductor—“Well, T hate to see | evem Delaney, Mr. Rickard, and ’ ‘ash customers. anyone start shaving so but his beard is about an inch long and I’d advise him to have it re- moved.”—Bull Dog. young? : Mr. Farley, the chairman of the Gotham Boxing Commission, started a hunt for (Continued on page 6) + Have you seen it? What? Gur new home, of course! We invite you to come in-and let us show you how well equipped we are to ably take care of all your Banking, Trust and Insurance needs. INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY INSURANCE DEPARTMENT CHARLOTTE, N. C. McALISTER CARSON (’13) Mer. M. B. SPEIR, JR. (’26) Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS Mooreaville, N. C. CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS one. 223 S. Tryon St. Davis <. Mother’s Day Second Sunday in May Send Mother flowers, if it’s only Flowers by wire anywhere ‘Art Flower Shop s ‘‘Bugs’’ Robinson, Prop. Charlotte, N. €. TAKE YOUR CHOICE HERE! We have at all times a complete stock of New Orthoph ene Victrolas an Brunswick Panatropes Also Victor and Brunswick Records New Records Every Friday AComplete Line of RCA | Radios from $69.50 to $895. Parker-Gardner Co.