September 27, 1928.

The First Game of the Season

On Saturday afternoon, the students, alumni, guests, and friends of Davidson gathered to witness the clash that marked the beginning of the 1928 football season. The scene was an animated one and presented many splotches of color. On the field, the flaming red jerseys of the ’Cats moved in bold outline to the turf beneath. On the grandstand, the red caps of the new men met the eye as they rose up and down during the game. Among the spectators could be seen the flashing attire of the young lady visitors as they cheered the participants on the field. There was a general buzz of conversation over the crowd which at times of tense excitement rose to frenzied roars. There was laughter. There was applause. The animated notes of the band were tuned to the spirit of the team. The grandstand stood to a man and sang the college song and as the team neared the goal line threw up its hands in frantic anticipation. Satisfied, it resumed its hum. It was a good game, everybody was there, and Davidson enjoyed herself as a social unit.

Visiting Professors

On walking down the streets of the town last Sunday night, one might have noted that the Davidson student body is continuing the custom among Davidson men of the past in visiting the professors in their homes. How ancient this custom may be might be found by looking up the history of the college of many years ago. That, however, is of little importance. The interesting fact which remains and will continue to foster its existence is that it has created a feeling of goodwill and fellowship between faculty and student. Long after we have graduated and we have no acquaintances in the student body, it will be to our old professors to whom we turn when we come back to the campus.

Kappa Sigma Sponsors House Party

The young ladies attending the Guilford-Davidson football game as guests of the Kappa Sigma Social Fraternity were as follows: Misses Dot Hendon, Michaux Beam, Mary Emma Nicols, Evelyn Jackson, Asheville; Misses Margaret Smith, Emma Colrane, Ida Allison, Charlotte; Misses Frances Thompson, Sara Kate Ormand, Lexington; Miss Anne Dayvault, Concord; Miss Anne Carter Marsh, High Point; Miss Mary Mackay Huff, Lancaster, S.C.

Alumni and friends attending the game were as follows: John C. Bernhardt, '27; W. McK. Black; Sam Maloy Davis; “Doc” Lafar; Mr. and Mrs. O. Z. Bethea; Mr. and Mrs. J. E. MacQueen, Charlotte; “Dodo” McDowd, Wofford; Johnny Johnson, University of Kentucky; Bill Timberlake, Statesville; Robert Ball Erkman, Mount Mourne; Owen Geer, Derita.

S. A. E.’s Entertain

Situated in their new chapter house, the S. A. E. fraternity was host to a number of young ladies over the weekend. Saturday night was a time for visiting, boys dropping in from the neighboring chapter houses. Punch and sandwiches were served. Prof. and Mrs. Earnest A. Beatty were the chaperones. Guests for the weekend included: Miss Regina Horn, Mocksville; Miss Alberta Thomas, Rock Hill; Miss Zora Foy, Reidsville; Miss Lib Patterson, Charlotte; Miss Julia Reid Rosborough, Jacksonville; Miss Lib Haynes, Winston-Salem; Miss Lillian Carmichael, Miss Mary Louise Wadsworth, Charlotte; Miss Tootsie McNair, Miss Mary Lou McKinnon, Hartsville; Misses Frances and Ann Weeks, Hendersonville.

Theta Upsilon Omega Guests

On the guest list for the weekend were: Misses Evelyn Josephs, Becky McGarity, Evelyn Wagner, Julia Josephs, Evelyn Beavers, Ellen Hawkins, Virginia Foil, Alice Fisher, Alice Jane Fleagle, Mary Long, Louise Garibaldi.

Delta Theta Chi Has Weekend Guests

The young ladies appearing at the football game on Saturday afternoon and who remained for the weekend were: Miss Elizabeth Hendon, Asheville; Misses Elizabeth Henderson and Elizabeth Clark, Charlotte; Misses Mary McNinch, Alice Armsfield, Emily Hunt, Nida DePass, Mary Grattan Graham, Queens; Miss Mary Jane Wharton, N.C.C.W.; Miss Martha Grooner, Raleigh; Miss Olive Singhlow, Shelby.

FIRST MEETINGS HELD BY LITERARY SOCIETIES

Both Literary Societies started the year with outside speakers. The Philanthropic Society heard Dr. Foreman, one of the “Alumni” of the society, and Camper O'Neal, “Y” secretary and president of the society last year. Drs. Erwin and Fleagle spoke before the Eumenean Society. The Philanthropic Society had one of the largest gatherings that has attended a society meeting in several years, 51 being present to hear Dr. Foreman speak on “Literary Societies, Past and Present.” He pointed out that in the past few years the interest has been waning in the societies, but that the societies have taken on more of a pure literary flavor, losing much of the social functions that were a feature of the past. O'Neal spoke especially to the Freshmen, urging them to become members of a society and pointing out the advantages that would accrue from it. Speaking before the Eumenean Society, both Drs. Erwin and Fleagle pointed out the benefits of the literary organizations. Dr. Fleagle laid special stress on the study of parliamentary law. The programs for tonight will include, besides the regular program, the initiation of new members, to be followed by a feed. The officers of the Eumenean Society are: W. L. Dumas, president; R. M. Christian, vice-president; A. R. Bird, secretary; T. E. Hill, treasurer, and R. Graham, critic. The officers of the Philanthropic Society are: Frank Hall, president; J. B. Knox, vice-president; C. E. Kreamer, secretary; C. H. DuBose, treasurer, and R. C. Grady, critic. The literary societies meet every Thursday night and the meetings are open to any who wish to attend whether they are members of the society or not.

ASSISTANT CHEER LEADER

(Continued from page 1)

the principles, and leaving much to their native ability. Thus the election of these two men was upon a basis of ability displayed before the student body. Nelson Myers, varsity cheer leader, has shown every evidence of being able to successfully lead the Wildcat cheering this year. Under his tutelage, the two assistants will no doubt develop into capable cheer leaders. These two assistants will be voted upon by the student body, to see who will be the cheer leader for the year 1929-1930. This election will come in the spring during the regular spring elections, after the men have had a better chance to show their development and ability.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson Will Again Get Sullivan Award

Award Last Year Given to Miss Shaw and Charles McRae

Of interest to the student body are the provisions of the Sullivan Award which will be given to some student and someone connected with the college practically every year. This award will be given at commencement to the Senior who exhibits the most deep spiritual life during his college career. He shall not be selected particularly on grounds of scholarly attainment or leadership, but solely on spiritual leadership and depth. At the last commencement of the college, the award was first given at Davidson College to Charles McRae, of the Senior class, and to Miss Cornelia Shaw, the librarian of the college since 1906. Charles McRae was a Phi Beta Kappa and O. D. K. man his Senior year, president of the Y. M. C. A., and a leader in all spiritual activities on the campus. Miss Cornelia Shaw has served faithfully in the capacity of college librarian for 22 years, part of which time she was librarian of the college. The Algernon Sidney Sullivan Award was made available to the college last year. It is awarded to many of the outstanding schools in the country, among which are William and Mary, University of Alabama, University of South Carolina, University of Virginia, and Washington and Lee.

“Y” LEADERS

(Continued from page 1)

one another, and take a stand for Jesus Christ,” he concluded. Camper O'Neal took the theme of his talk from the19th chapter of Matthew, which is the story of the young man that went to Christ to question Him about His life. The young man had great riches but he felt that something was lacking. Jesus told him to go and sell his goods, give them to the poor, and follow Him. The young man went away sorrowing. In Christ's army there are no flags flying, bands playing, and the other things that went with the troops in the last war. It is a hard thing to do to follow Him. One is not even called a slacker if he fails to join when given the opportunity. It is hard to do even here at Davidson. To be able to follow Him one must have love for Christ. That alone will make the pathway easy. Quickly one forgets how hard it is to serve Him. And without love we cannot give service to Christ. Through service, however, it is easy to learn to love Jesus and when we have received His all-powerful blessing we will never leave Him. “Men, open up your hearts and let Jesus Christ in,” appealed O'Neal in closing his talk to the students.

JOHNSON PROCURES
(Continued from page 1)
While at school Johnson showed himself to be a good student, especially in the languages, as he averaged around 95 in them during his entire four years. He was the moving spirit in organizing the Classical club, which has since become a national, Eta Sigma Phi. Johnson will teach Latin in the Woodbury Forest preparatory school, at Orange, Va., this year, and will also assist in coaching baseball. At Davidson the position of cheerleader is held worthy of honor, so much that the Athletic Council, several years ago, decided to award a minor letter to the varsity cheerleader during his Senior year. This position also takes much time and work, for it is upon the cheerleader that the burden of caring for the wildcat falls, the problem of transportation of the student body to the scene of a football game, and the keeping up of the pep at all times.

ACTIVITIES SCHEDULE
(Adopted by Honorary Fraternity Council)
Weeks beginning September 24, October 8, 15, November 5, 19, December 3, 17, January 14, 28, February 11, 25, March 11, 25, April 8, 22, May 6.

MONDAY
7:00 Glee Club
7:30 Court of Control
9:00 O. D. K.

TUESDAY
Glee Club
Sigma Pi Sigma
Delta Pi Kappa

WED.
Phi and Eu. Societies
Scabbard and Blade
Eta Sigma Phi

THUR.
Glee Club
Gamma Sigma Epsilon

FRIDAY
Glee Club

ON ALTERNATE WEEKS
7:00 Glee Club
7:30 Court of Control
9:00 O. D. K.

Phi and Eu. Societies
Biology Club
Sigma Upsilon

I. R. C.
A. P. E.

REGISTRATION FALLS BELOW LAST YEAR'S
With registration of the students still incomplete it appears as if the total registration would fall below the registration of last year. At the last count there were only 596 students on the roll of Davidson College. A few late arrivals have added to this total until it is now around 615. Several students who were expected to be here have had to drop out on account of financial or studious difficulties. It will be noticed that there are more Seniors registered than there are Juniors, there being 118 Seniors registered to 114 for the Juniors. The Sophomore class has 134 men in it and the Freshman class has 226 men. This is a smaller Fresh class than was expected, several dropping out at the last moment. In addition to the regular students there are four special women students, and one man is enrolled for further study for his M.A. degree.

Page Three

DAVIDSON MAN WINS IN SPANISH CONTEST
It has just been learned here that J. L. Rice, of Salisbury, member of the Senior class of Davidson College, has been judged the winner of a national Spanish essay contest. He was notified last May that his paper was selected as the best in the second region, which comprised 12 states, the District of Columbia and Porto Rico. Mr. Rice was awarded the national prize this summer, but his final success was not known at Davidson until he was queried today. Winning this high honor is a distinct tribute to Mr. Rice, for several thousand college students participated, the contest being open to every college student in the United States and its possessions. The final test came when his paper and five others from as many different regions were sent to the national committee for final choice. This contest was conducted under the auspices of La Prensa, a publication of New York, and the American Association of Teachers of Spanish. All competitors had to submit their essays in Spanish, and the minimum length was 1,500 words. The choice of subject was limited, for it had to be selected from a group submitted by the association. No individual could be asked for assistance.

CHAM WILL COME OUT
(Continued from page 1)
be on October 15. It is the intention of the editorial and business staffs to put out as many as five issues this year, instead of the usual two or three as has been the custom for the past two years. Two or possibly three issues will be off the press before the Christmas holidays, with the remaining two or three to follow in the second semester. It is believed by many campus critics that the Chameleon will be better this year than it has been for quite a few years, basing their observations upon the staff, which is as follows: Browne McQueen, editor-in-chief; R. A. Boggess, short story editor; Frank Hall, poetry editor; J. R. Covington, essay editor; and J. G. Johnson, review editor. R. M. Clifton, H. S. Goodwin, R. O. Flinn, and one or two others will serve as assistant literary editors. The business staff is composed of H. A. Knox, business manager; C. H. DuBose and C. H. Pettus, assistant business managers; W. R. Hill, circulation manager, and V. A. Milton, subscription manager.

GLEE CLUB PLANS
(Continued from page 1)
O. T. C. Band. This association will have complete charge of the organizations making it up and accurate books will be kept which will be audited by the college treasurer at the close of each college year. The need of such an organization has been felt for some time and the forming of it is a great step forward for it means the same thing to the musical life of the campus that the Athletic Association means to the athletic life. The executive committee of this Glee Club Association is as follows: Paul Fry, president; Charlie Albright, Sid Abernathy, A. J. Thompson and Charlie Orr.

PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
Every man wants his stationery to be distinctive, and we are prepared to give you a most attractive job at a reasonable price. Samples of printed stationery and of printed and engraved personal cards are on display in 20 Rumple. Best rates on job work will be quoted to campus organizations for any kind of printing.
AUBREY BROWN, Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

STAY ON THE FAIRWAY; STICK TO CAMELS
Somewhere between your collar-button and the bottom of your plus-fours there’s a smoke-spot—seeking “fill-fullment.” The vast majority of jobbies who feel that in’ard hankerin’ have discovered what to do about it. They pull a cool cloud of joy away down into it—and slowly exhale fragrant Camel smoke. Tobacco science has produced in Camel a superb blend of the choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos. Just revel once in the delicious, quivering aroma of a cloud of Camel smoke. We'll bet a caddie to a left-handed niblick you'll never get off that fairway!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C.