THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 29, 1928 No. 25

DEBATERS OF SOUTHERN TRIP RETURN VICTORS OF EMORY AND SEWANEE

Though Losing to Florida by One Vote the Wildcat Delegation Win From Emory for First Time in Six Years

With a record of two victories and one defeat to their credit, H. T. Powell and Tyree Dillard returned Monday from the Southern debating trip, after meeting teams from Florida, Sewanee, and Emory Universities. On Tuesday night the Davidson team lost by a two to one decision to Roberts and Conner, of the University of Florida. The losers upheld the affirmative side of the question: "Resolved, That the United States should cease to protect by force of arms capital in foreign lands, except after formal declaration of war." The judges’ verdict at Gainesville was a reverse of the decision made by the audience several weeks ago, when Kell and Pritchett defeated the Florida debaters in Shearer Hall.

At Sewanee, Tenn., the Davidson debaters met and defeated the University of the South by two to one. Here the visiting contestants also upheld the affirmative of the same query used at Florida. Moving on to Atlanta, Cox and Brown, of Emory University, were met and defeated, the judges rendering a unanimous decision for the visitors. This is the first time in the six years that the two colleges have been debating that Davidson has come away victorious.

This concludes the debating schedule for the year. The Southern trip, from the point of view of wins and defeats, was the most successful of the two extensive tours made. On the Northern trip, Grady and W. K. Pritchett lost to Hampden-Sidney and the University of Pittsburgh, and debated to a no-decision with George Washington University, at Washington, D. C. At home, Kell and L. K. Pritchett have been most successful.

National Honorary Frat Will Meet Here in April for Physics Discussions

Two-Day Program Arranged by Mother Chapter for Visiting

State Sec’y of “Y” Speaks at Vespers

“The Attractiveness and Exclusiveness of Jesus” was the theme of a message delivered Sunday evening at “Y” vespers by J. Wilson Smith, State Secretary of the Young Men’s Christian Association of North Carolina. The Scriptural basis of the talk is found in the passage: “Seek ye first the Kingdom of God and all these things shall be added unto you.” This invitation was given to all classes and kinds of people who had been drawn by the force of His personality. Jesus had the most attractive personality of His time and He has been the center of attraction in every age from that day until the present time. Napoleon, banished to St. Helena, declared that the wonderful demands which He made of the human heart and the way in which these demands were granted were striking proofs of His divinity.

What were the factors which combined to make His personality attractive? In the first place, His teaching of the Bible has not changed through the course of centuries, because He summed up all moral truth which had existed in the past, in His own day, and which will exist in all future ages. His sinless life was another source of attraction, for here was One so pure that His own brothers were glad to be leaders in advancing His Kingdom. The significance of His death and resurrection has always drawn men, and was a forceful way to show them that God was a God of love. This quality of love was the (Continued on page 5)

Frat Averages Are Given By Registrar

For the fall term 1927-1928 the highest composite average for a national fraternity at Davidson was made by the Kappa Alpha fraternity, according to a report given by the registrar. The average for the fraternity

on Medicine Speaks to Davidson Student Body

Dr. Davison, Head of Duke Medical School, Considers Medicine as Life Work

FORMERLY OF HOPKINS

Week of Medicine Last of Vocational Guidance Series

On Tuesday night Dr. W. C. Davison, dean of the Duke Medical School, addressed over 150 students on medicine as a life profession. He opened his speech by recommending two books for reading by all students interested in medicine. They were “The Physician,” by Dr. M. T. Finney, M.D., and “The Young Man and Medicine,” by Dr. L. F. Barker, M.D., LL.D. He next gave a running account of the development of medicine. It was first practiced by the priests of the ancient religions. The first great steps in medical lines were taken when the Catholic Church received the bodies of hung criminals to be worked on. The next great forwarding of the field of medicine came with the discovery of circulation by Harvey. A hundred and fifty years passed before the discovery of the microscope, after the microscope came the researches and the consequent discoveries by Pasteur, upon whose discoveries modern medicine is now based.

He who is planning to devote himself to medicine must realize that Medicine is a constantly growing and ever-broadening field, which will require him to keep himself informed at all times. Dr. Davison showed that there are many sides and divisions to the field of medicine, among them being the general practitioner, the specialist, the laboratory expert, the X-ray and research worker, the teacher of public health and hygiene. During the lecture Dr. Davison said that he believed that the tendency in the medical field in this generation would be toward that of the first named of the above list—the general practitioner. (Continued on page 8)

JOHN MELTON SUCCEEDS CHARLEY McRAE AS THE PRESIDENT OF Y. M. C. A.

High Honor Won on Initial Ballot---Brown and Long Elected Vice-Presidents on First

State Meet Again Won By Charlotte

Charlotte High School's track team won the annual invitation state meet here on Saturday, March 24th, by a 13 point margin. The meet, which was sponsored by the Athletic Association, had 12 entrants: Greensboro High ended second with 29 points, while New Hanover High School, of Wilmington, turned in 26 points to place third. The other entrants in the order they finished the meet with their scores, are as follows: High Point, 16; Statesville, 6 1-2; Asheville, 4; Davidson, 3; Raleigh, 3; Barium Springs, 1 1-2; Salisbury, 1-2; Rockingham and Lincolnton. Charlotte won with a total number of 42 points, leaving the remainder to be divided between their opponents. Wilmington put up a fine fight to win with their four-man team, but couldn't hold out in the numerous heats. Farmer, Wilmington’s star dash man, won all his heats both in the hundred and two twenty, lacked one point of tying the high scorer of the meet, and would have placed in the broad jump if he had not been forced to run three heats in both the dashes. It is said that Farmer had not been out for practice in Wilmington this week due to sickness. The entire team from New Hanover High “bummed” up through the country, as their coach, a lawyer, was detained to try a case on Saturday. Thomas Brown was high scorer of the meet with one first place and two seconds, making a total of 11 points. Brown was followed close by his Greensboro teammate, (Continued on page 8)

Glee Club Completes VerySuccessful Week-End Trip Faculty Linguists Enjoy Convention

On Tuesday, April 10th and 11th, delegates from the six chapters of Sigma Pi Sigma, National Honorary Physics Fraternity, will convene with the mother chapter at Davidson for the first biennial convention of the fraternity. The Alpha chapter, under the leadership of T. E. Lothery, who is president, and Prof. H. E. Fulcher, one of the officers of the national organization, has arranged a two-day program that promises an interesting conclave for visiting delegates.

Sigma Pi Sigma was founded as a national honorary fraternity in 1925, but its real history dates back to 1923, when the founding came as a result of the realization of the need for some organization in which members of the faculty and students interested in physics might be grouped together to manifest their interest in a discussion group. The organization grew, and the founders made provisions for expansion. In 1925, the Beta chapter at Duke was organized, in 1926 the Gamma at Penn State, and in 1927 Centenary College of Louisiana, Furman University of South Carolina, and William and Mary were granted the Delta, Epsilon, and Zeta chapters respectively. The fraternity has by no means closed its (Continued on page 8).

The recent annual meeting of the North Carolina Educational Association, which was held in Raleigh on the 22nd, 23rd, and 24th of this month, was attended by 10 members of the Davidson faculty. Eight of those going from Davidson were in attendance at the meeting of the Modern Language Association of North Carolina, this being a division of the State Educational Association. Professor Fleagle was president of the Modern Language group. Dr. Watts gave a paper before the French section of the modern language meeting, and Dr. Vowles read another before the German section. Another feature of the program was an address by Dr. Lingle before the joint meeting of the section on Higher Education of the Association and the State Board of Education. All Davidson men who attended the meeting report a fine program throughout, and they were especially impressed by the address of Dr. Judd, dean of the School of Education at the University of Chicago. One of the outstanding features before the general meeting was that of the First All-State Orchestra, which gave programs of 45 (Continued on page 5).

The averages for the fraternities are only indicative of the final averages to be determined at the end of the school year. The fraternity attaining the highest scholastic average at this time will be awarded the Harper Interfraternity Scholarship cup, which is now held by the Phi Alpha chapter of Beta Theta Pi. The averages were high, and the competition very keen for the fall term as the Kappa Alpha scholastic average was only a fraction of a point above that of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. The fraternities finished in the following order: Kappa Alpha, 86.66; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 86.12; Beta Theta Pi, 85.51; Kappa Sigma, 85.17; Pi Kappa Alpha, 84.91; Theta Upsilon Omega, 84.58; Phi Gamma Delta, 84.42; and Pi Kappa Phi, 83.61. The Harper Interfraternity cup, since it was presented in 1923, has been won by the following fraternities: The Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity won it in 1924, the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity in 1925, the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity in 1926, and the Beta Theta Pi fraternity in 1927.

Converse Concert Marks Second Successful One of Season—Performance in Davidson Soon

On last Friday night, the Davidson Glee Club appeared before a large and enthusiastic audience at the high school auditorium in Lincolnton, N.C. The audience was probably one of the largest that has attended one of the Glee Club performances this year. The program was of peculiar interest to the townspeople, as Jack Ramseur, a Lincolnton boy, with his musical saw, was one of the main features of the performance. The Woman’s Auxiliary entertained the club with a reception given immediately after the performance. While in Lincolnton, the members of the club were taken to various homes where they were to be entertained. On Saturday night, the Davidson songsters performed before a very appreciative audience at Converse College in Spartanburg, S.C. Mrs. Cullum, wife of Professor Cullum, head of the music department, sang two numbers which were enthusiastically received by the audience. Other features that gained approval were the baritone solo by R. S. Lowrance and the string trio, composed of (Continued on page 5).

Johnnie Melton was elected president of the Y.M.C.A. in the third major election of the student body a week ago last Tuesday morning. Melton was elected on the first ballot from a field of five men. The men nominated were Johnnie Melton, Bill Hill, Monroe Gilmour, Dick Flynn, and Glenn Frye. The first four were nominated by the “Y” Cabinet and announced on Monday morning by Charley McRea, and at that time Glenn Frye was nominated from the floor. The first ballot was run on Tuesday morning, and at this time Johnnie Melton was elected by a large majority. The elections for the vice-presidency were held at the same time. Six men were nominated by the “Y” Cabinet for this office; they were Frank Brown, Zeb Long, Murray Christian, Carl Pritchett, Russell Nunan, and Allan Frew. Frank Brown was elected first vice-president on the same ballot with Johnnie Melton, and on this ballot Christian and Frew were dropped. A run-off was held on Wednesday morning between Zeb Long, Carl Pritchett, and Russell Nunan; on this ballot Nunan was eliminated, and on Thursday morning the final ballot of the “Y” elections was held between Zeb Long and Carl Pritchett, with Zeb Long winning on this ballot the second vice-presidency of the Y.M.C.A. Melton succeeds Charley McRae in this office, which is considered by some students to be an even higher honor than the presidency of the student body. (Continued on page 5).

Efird’s Banquet is Scene of Sophomores’ Annual Eve of Feasting

With Frank Brown, of Salisbury, N.C., presiding as toastmaster, the Sophomore banquet held in Charlotte last week was reported to be a complete success. Efird’s dining hall was the scene of the revelry, which was held on Tuesday night, March 20th. Informality, which began with the short word of welcome by Carl Pritchett, president of the class, was the key to the whole affair, otherwise characterized by much music, wit, food, and several speeches. The guests of honor were Mr. Clarence Kuester, business manager of the Chamber of Commerce of Charlotte, who was the host of the class at their banquet last year; Mr. Ernest Milton, alumni secretary; Charles McCrae, president of the Y.M.C.A.; Prof. K. J. Foreman; and Dr. Watts, of the faculty. Several officials of the student body were expected to be present but failed to arrive. The attendance of the class was excellent, with 120 of the 131 members being present. The program was enlivened by musical selections by the class orchestra, consisting of Charley Orr, director, Sam Coker, H. R. Mobley, Charley Yancey, W. A. Nicholson, and A. J. Thompson. Charley Orr rendered (Continued on page 5).