October 11, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

SOCIETY

Delta Pi Kappa Feed

On Tuesday evening in the parlor of Watts, the Delta Pi Kappa honorary fraternity held its regular quarterly meeting.

T. U. O. Alumni at Game

R. S. Lowrance, '28, of the Gastonia High School faculty; Jack Hand, '27; A. K. Harrison, '24; Ed. P. O'Connor,
'24, visited the chapter house on Concord Street last Saturday while here for the Elon-Davidson game. General points concerning the
fraternity activities were discussed. After the business, the scene of the party was changed to the Students’ Store, where refreshments
awaited. Those present were: W. H. Bailey, J. B. Moriarity, W. K. Pritchett, N. T. Gilmour, C. M. Pratt, F.
D. Miller, A. N. Brown, and R. T. Jarratt.

K. A. Guests

Witt Hancock, of the class of '28, was a week-end visitor. Mr. and Mrs. Paul Guthery, Paul Jamison, Dr. Tom
Sparrow, and Carl Peenser, of Charlotte, and Jack Taylor, of Salisbury, were callers at the K. A. house.

Sigma Upsilon

Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, held its first regular meeting of the year last Friday evening. After the program, the
main feature of which was the reading of a paper on Disraeli by Dr. Frazer Hood, of the faculty, refreshments
were served. Dr. Cummings was the guest of honor. Those present from the faculty were: Professor Hood and Professor Lilly.
From the student body: R. A. Boggess, D. F. Cannon, R. M. Covington, Frank Hall, J. G. Johnson, and W.
B. McQueen.

Miss Georgs Sails

Miss Alvenie Georgs leaves New York on the Berengaria, sailing October 16, for her home in Dessau, Germany. During the
past summer, she has been visiting in Scarsdale, N.Y. Last winter, Miss Georgs was the guest of her sister, Mrs.
L. B. Henderson, wife of Professor Henderson, and attended classes in the college.

Banquet for Ministers

On Saturday evening, the Ministerial Band informally entertained members of the Freshman class in the social hall in the basement
of the village church. Hot chocolate and sandwiches were served. Dr. H. M. Moffett, pastor of the local church; Dr.
C. K. Brown, of the Davidson College faculty, and Camper O'Neal, Y. M. C. A. secretary, were present as guests
of honor. During the evening, Dr. Brown and Allan Frew addressed those present. Mrs. H. M. Moffett graciously acted as
hostess, assisted by Miss Minnie Scofield, and her two daughters, Misses Susan and Carolina Moffett, and Miss Helen DeVaun.

S. A. E.

Over the past week-end, the S. A. E. social fraternity was host to a house party. The chapter house was
attractively arranged to receive the guests. Punch and sandwiches were served at an informal reception on Saturday night. A number
of girls stayed over after the game with Elon. The guest list included: Misses Lib Patterson, Charlotte; Annie White, Raleigh;
Bert Sterling, Wilmington; Virginia McPhail, Rockingham; Tippe Galloway, Winston-Salem; Miriam Reed, Concord; Frances Weeks, Hendersonville.

EDITOR'S NOTE:

Material for this column is furnished by each fraternity through its representative. Omission of any articles of interest should not
be attributed to oversight on the part of the Society Editor.

FACULTY MEMBERS TO ATTEND SYNOD

Davidson Sending Delegation of Eight Composed of College and Church Representatives

The North Carolina Synod began its annual meeting in Maxton, at 7:30 p.m., Tuesday, October 9. This year Davidson has
a delegation of eight, composed of the college and local church representatives. The college will be represented by President Martin,
Dr. Lingle, Dr. Richards, and Dr. Henderson, while from the church go Dr. Moffett, Professor Wood, Rev. W. M. Hunter,
and Mr. C. H. Hamilton. Most of the delegation left early Tuesday to motor to Maxton. The last session is
expected to come to an end late this afternoon.

Student Body Takes Interest in Sports

Under the direction of Coach Pritchett, formerly of Woodberry Forest, and now of athletics at Davidson, there is an extensive
program of athletics now under way on the campus. There are seven different kinds of sports now in vogue in
which 43 percent of the student body are actively engaged.

Football, of course, has the call. Eighty men report regularly to Coaches Younger, Tilson, and Miles, who make it their
business to see that none of them go wanting for exercise. Next comes fall track. Sixty boys are working out
under Coach Pritchett each afternoon and the prospects for the coming season are far from dull. Captain Pritchett has arranged
a very interesting fall program for the track men which is climaxed by an intramural track meet to be held
on November 3. Every man on the campus is eligible, provided he has been doing four weeks of training before
the meet. Novice events will be included in the scoring, so the new men will have equal opportunities for carrying
off the honors with the old men. Prizes and awards will be given to the men placing in the events.

Basketball, tennis, wrestling, golf, and campus football all have their following, a great many men enjoying these sports each afternoon.
Boxing will begin about December 1, and from advance reports, there are a large number of promising pugs waiting for
the gong. A physical improvement contest has been planned to take place later in the fall. Measurements will be taken
of the biceps, forearms, thighs, calves, chest normal, and neck. They will be taken again after some months of training
and the three men showing the greatest improvement will receive gold, silver, and bronze medals, respectively. However, the contest is
expected to be run off as scheduled.

Two questions, in the main, are occupying the attention of the assembly this session. The first is the proposal to
consolidate Presbyterian educational interests under the Synod as opposed to the present system of control by local Presbyteries. The second
is to combine all work now in the hands of the individual Presbyteries and place it under a state committee
which will have complete oversight of the various branches of the church work, such as foreign missions, home missions, publications,
etc. The latter’s purpose is to be a sub-organization to the national General Assembly's “Work of Forty-Four.” It is not
yet definitely known what action the Synod has taken on these long-agitated questions. However, it is generally believed throughout the
state that both measures will be passed.

GAMMON DELIVERS

(Continued from page 1)

daily confront him but how he reacts to the hard, sacrifice-involving jobs that come his way. A leader must be
ready to assume responsibility, not from a sense of conceit but from the realization of duty, and he must be
ready to carry through in spite of handicaps and the hardships involved. If he lives up to these principles, Dr.
Gammon showed, that leader is a success.

CAPTAIN WEEMS

(Continued from page 1)

citations. His record shows further that he is a graduate of the Command and General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth,
Kansas, and is on the General Staff eligibility list.

Johannesburg, Oct. 10—(IP)—That man emerged from the Kalahari desert in Africa is the opinion of Dr. Ernest Cadle, of the
Cameron-Cadle expedition.

Madison, Conn., Oct. 10 (IP)—George A. Wilcox, 96, one of theOldest living graduates of Yale University, died here of pneumonia
after a week’s illness.

DR. THOMPSON (Continued from page 1) was captain of the golf team, member of the tennis team, and was chosen
as manager of the track team. His last year’s service with the Y. M. C. A. was as vice-president in
charge of personal work. His Christian character, backed up with leadership and ability, made him a valuable man as a
Y worker for the three years in which he served. Graduated in 1905, Dr. Thompson went to Cluster Springs Academy
in Virginia where he taught and coached. From 1906 until 1910 he was a student at Union Theological Seminary and
won such distinction that he was awarded the Hoge Fellowship, the highest honor at the seminary. Leaving the seminary, he
was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Lexington, Va.; the First Presbyterian Church of Knoxville, Tenn.; and the Government
St. Presbyterian Church of Mobile, Ala. As a pastor, he showed the traits which led to his selection to fill
the Robert Critz chair of religious education at the seminary, where he has been for eight years. During the war,
he served at Camp Greene in Charlotte. Davidson College conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of Divinity in 1910.
Especially to university and college students, Dr. Thompson is in great demand in both the north and south. He has
been called repeatedly to some of the largest pulpits in the northern and southern Presbyterian churches. As a public speaker,
he wields a tremendous influence, but he excels in the kindly influence of his personal self. Large crowds of Davidson
students and townspeople are expected to hear him speak. Personal interviews on problems may be arranged through W. F. Hill,
Jr.

FAMOUS DOUBLE PLAYS Hope to Pass Late to Chapel Back to work.

LITERARY SOCIETIES

EUMENEAN At the last meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society, Dr. Porter gave an interesting talk on Parliamentary Law. He
laid much stress on the value of literary society training. After his talk, he conducted a drill in parliamentary procedure.
The meeting tonight will see the debut of four of the new members who will engage in a debate on
a subject of common interest.

PHILANTHROPIC The meeting of the Philanthropic Society last Thursday was featured by an animated discussion of the proposed modification of
the prohibition law. Practically everyone present took part in the argument and debate was fast and furious. By a vote
of 18 to 16, the society voted in favor of the continuance of the present system. At the conclusion of
the program, four new members were received into the society. A full attendance is urged for tonight. The program consists
of marriage and divorce conditions in the United States.

To Whom It May Concern: The Davidson College Y. M. C. A. has on hand a complete moving picture show
outfit which it is anxious to sell. The outfit includes the following parts: One Simplex Moving Picture Machine. One Powers
Inductor. (This is made by the Nicholas Power Co.). One Fire-proof Operating Box or Shed. When this machine was last
used, it was in fairly good shape. A moving picture machine operator told us that with a few repairs, costing
from $35 to $40, this machine would pass for new. If you are interested in getting a very good Moving
Picture Outfit or if you know of anyone who would be interested in this proposition, please write to The Davidson
College Y. M. C. A., Davidson, N.C.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There” Cars to Rent Special Rates for Long Trips HENDERSON AUTO CO. DAVIDSON,
N. C.

With The Other Colleges

Austin, Texas, Oct. 10—(AP)—As an insurance that blanket tax athletic tickets will not be transferred, the University of Texas athletic
council has arranged a method whereby the picture of each student paying for a blanket tax will be placed on
his athletic ticket. This action was forced by the persistence of students in other years in allowing their friends and
roommates who had not paid for blanket taxes to attend games they themselves were unable to attend. It was also
necessary to devise some means of preventing scalping of rooting section tickets for big games, a practice which tended to
destroy the effectiveness of the section. The University of Texas blanket tax saves the students $65 in campus expenses throughout
the year.

Pittsburgh, Pa., Oct. 10—(AP)—Twelve major topics for discussion at the Second International Conference on Bituminous Coal, to be held under
the auspices of Carnegie Institute of Technology, here, on November 19-24, are tentatively announced by Dr. Thomas S. Baker, president
of the institution, and chairman of the congress. About 100 engineers and scientists representing 15 nations have already accepted invitations
to speak or to send papers to the congress, and the number of speakers and delegates is growing daily. About
60 percent of the papers will be delivered by representatives of countries other than the United States.

Oberlin, O., Oct. 10—(AP)—Oberlin College has purchased several hundred acres of land on the Vermilion River, a few miles north
of here, which is to be used exclusively for hunting, fishing, and camping grounds for the male students of the
college. The purchase of the land followed on the heels of a movement started here several years ago and brought
to a head just recently, to repudiate the rumor that Oberlin is a “women's college.” The men of the college
had complained that they had insufficient traditional men’s life, and the purchase of the tract was the answer of the
college trustees to the complaint.

New York, Oct. 10—(AP)—Dartmouth College has more faculty members listed in the 1928-29 “Who’s Who In America” than any other
educational institution of college rank and size in the country. Oberlin College is second in number of names in the
book, with Swarthmore, Smith, Amherst, and Pomona Colleges trailing close behind.

Kansas City, Mo., Oct. 10—(AP)—Two fatalities marred the opening of the 1928 football season in Missouri, Lee Harmon, Pierce City
high school, having died with a broken neck received in a game at Monett, and Herschel Bartlett, 18, Central high
school gridder at St. Joseph, having died in a hospital there from injuries received in practice.

Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 10—(AP)—William Heston, Jr., is on the freshman football squad at the University of Michigan this fall,
grooming himself for a halfback position. Heston is hailed as the successor of his father, Judge Heston, of Detroit, the
“Wonderful Willie” of the famous Michigan point-a-minute team of 25 years ago.

Cleveland, Ohio, Oct. 10—(AP)—An astronomy course for those of the public who like to gaze at the heavens on starry
nights has been instituted at Case School of Applied Science here by Dr. Jason J. Nassau, associate professor of mathematics
and astronomy.

Hamilton, N. Y., Oct. 10—(AP)—Electrical apparatus for the accurate generation and measurement of noise and tone has been developed and
put to use in the psychological laboratory of Colgate University, to replace the former mechanical methods employed in such experiments.

TOBACCO TRUTHS DAVIDSON—An Honor College CHESTERFIELDS—An Honor Cigarette

Yours, CHESTERFIELD

BILL. Drugs CANDIES Make Our Store Your Store We carry only the best in drugs and drug sundries WHITE DRUG
COMPANY Soda — SUNDRIES

If all the Camel smokers in the world were placed end to end, they would reach—for more Camels! CAMEL smokers
know too much about choice tobaccos to go off on a tangent. In the idiom of a prominent public personage,
they “do not choose” to be sidetracked. Why? Don’t ask! For thereby hangs a tale... a tale of the up-and-up
enjoyment experienced smokers have found in this finest blend of choice Turkish and Domestic tobaccos.

©1928 R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
