October 25, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AFTER THOSE DEACONS, DAVIDSON! CAT TRAX AS THEY FOLLOW THE RED AND BLACK By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

That game Saturday was a corker from the standpoint of the disinterested spectator, but to a Davidson man it was a good ticket to the “bug-house.” Time and again it seemed that the Wildcats were going to turn defeat into victory, but every time Lady Luck or something stepped in to turn the tide away from the red and black eleven. We say luck played a part, but this guy Duvall didn’t seem to depend on any charms except his feet. He is one good runner. His style is much like that of a certain Rackley of Wake Forest, who is well known around Davidson. After seeing Duvall, the “Happy Warrior,” as the Charleston papers term him, break loose four or five times right through the middle of the Wildcat defense, everybody was willing to grant that he was “ready” as they ever get. Duvall has certainly put the Citadel on the map this season.

To this writer, the turning point of the game came about through an unfortunate decision by Referee Cheves. Brock punted to Citadel’s 49-yard line. A Citadel player attempted to pick up the ball and run, but failed in this, after touching the ball several times. Meanwhile, Harper and Smith, of the Wildcats, were on him and Harper fell on the pigskin, clearly giving first down to the ’Cats, since the ball became free after the Citadel man touched it. The referee, however, ruled that the ball belonged to Citadel, and no amount of arguing could bring him around. On the next play, Duvall broke away for 48 yards, placing the ball on Davidson's two-yard marker.

Breaks will come, though. The first Wildcat score was the direct result of a fumble, Brock scooping it up and sprinting over the goal line. There were four red jerseys right behind him to see it well done. Citadel’s interference was a smooth working part of their attack. It looked like a wave of blue jerseys swept completely over the secondary defense of the Wildcats whenever Duvall or Howie started one of their slashing runs. The absence of Flinn and Black played havoc with the 'Cat defense during the second half. Had those two boys been in, the result might have been different.

Not all the fireworks were furnished by the Cadets, though. Bob Kell played the greatest game of his career at Davidson. He was a sure ground gainer and a deadly tackler. Many times he shot off tackle or around end for substantial gains, and his fifty-yard dash after taking a pass at the opening of the last half was a highlight of the game. Thad Brock did about everything but carry water and he did it well. Keep your eyes on that boy. He is one of Carolina’s coming luminaries. Riggs McConnell and Baker did fine work in the line, as did Sam Smith. It was a dogged fight that those weary Wildcats put up in the closing minutes of the game. Only a desperate stand by the Davidson line averted another Citadel touchdown.

The Wake Forest game is Davidson’s bow into the Big Five. Little can be said as to prospects for this clash. Neither team has won startling victories, but both have made excellent stands against supposedly stronger teams. Tradition has decreed that there shall always be a fight when Deacon and Wildcat get together, so the game in Charlotte Saturday should be supremely satisfying.

Power to the Wildkittens for their slashing win over Wofford. That helps to avenge the varsity’s defeat by the little Terriers’ older brothers. Monk is going to get some good men off that frosh squad.

Wasn't Marrying for Money
Mrs. Mandy Johnson—“I want to see Mistah Roeser.”
Office Boy—“Mr. Roeser is engaged.”
Mrs. Mandy Johnson—“Go long boy. Ah don’t want to marry him, Tell

WILDCATS UNABLE TO CHECK FLASHY CITADEL OFFENSE!
Duvall, Flying Quarterback, Pulls Long Runs to Beat Younger’s Men in Hectic Battle
KELL IS STAR

Davidson Struggles to Gain Victory, But Cadets Hold Advantage After First Period—Brock Scores on Fumble

Monk Younger and the Davidson Wildcats found out one more time that these Sandlapper schools are not to be trifled with in the least. Last Saturday witnessed about the most hectic football game of the season, as the Citadel Cadets played host to the ’Cats at Charleston. Before a crowd of some thirty-five hundred people, the Soldiers maneuvered their fast backs until the ‘Cats were groggy, and after an hour of tactics like this, the Bulldogs marched away with four touchdowns and the game, leaving a battered but still scrapping Davidson team to console itself. It was the first time since the teams have been playing that the Soldiers were victorious.

Davidson started off like a steam roller with wings, crushing the Cadets back toward their goal line, and within seven or eight minutes of play the ’Cats placed the oval on Citadel’s four-yard line. Here, however, the Cadets took a brace and stopped Black as he tried for first down. Davidson soon renewed her drive, forcing the ball to the enemy’s 30-yard mark. Citadel held. On the first play, a Cadet back fumbled, the ball rolling to the 18-yard line. Brock was on it like a flash, recovered and sprinted the distance across the last white line. He missed his try for point.

Now the big guns of the Cadets began to function, and following a recovery of a punt, Duvall, speedy and elusive quarterback for the Soldiers, ran the ball 38 yards to the two-yard mark. Howie took it over and kicked the extra point. A few plays later, this same Duvall, apparently unstoppable, wormed and dodged his way through a broken field 69 yards for another score.

As the final half began, the Wildcats looked good to pull the game out of the fire. Within one minute of the whistle, Kell had snagged a pass and crossed the line after a dash of 47 yards. Again Brock missed point. Citadel, not to be denied, came back with slashing off tackle plays and passes that confounded the fast tiring Wildcats, and Duvall again climaxed this drive with a fine sprint for 34 yards and a touchdown. Howie drove around end for the last score of the contest. Davidson threatened until the last, once taking the pigskin to the 36-yard line, where a bad pass from center spoiled her hopes. Davidson made a fine stand on her own four-yard line to hold the charging Cadets as the game came to its close.

Duvall was the big noise for Citadel, but he was ably abetted by a line which gave excellent interference, and charged hard enough to take the Wildcats out of his way. Kell played a beautiful game for Davidson. He ran well and tackled hard. Brock was a thorn in Citadel's offense. Captain Baker and Riggs McConnell were towers of strength in the line.

Line up and summary:
Davidson (12) Citadel (26)
Position
Brock Left End Wideman
Archie Left Tackle Gilson
Harper Left Guard Skelton
McConnell Center Oglesby
Smith Right Guard Morgan
Ring Right Tackle David
Duvall Right End Kell
Quarterback Fraley
Left Halfback Weeks
Right Halfback Flinn
Fullback Black

Score by periods:
Citadel 0 13 13 0—26
Davidson 0 6 6 0—12

Scoring—Citadel: touchdowns, Duvall (2), Howie (2); points after touchdown, Howie (2) (placement kicks). Davidson: touchdowns,Brock, Kell. Substitutions—Citadel: Epps, Willard, him his wash-lady wants huh money.” Gray, Chapman, Roberts, Hobbs, Ryan, BOB KELL Wildcat Halfback, whose brilliant playing was a feature of the Citadel contest.

WITH WAKE FOREST ON CHARLOTTE GRID
Demon Deacons and Cats Out to Break Deadlock of Three Years’ Standing

TEAMS PRIMED
Scores of Past Seasons Give Wildcats Edge—Big Crowd Expected to Witness Clash in Queen City

The meeting of the Davidson Wildcats and Wake Forest's Demon Deacons in Charlotte Saturday will most likely see the termination of the Presbyterian-Baptist deadlock of three years’ standing. Both elevens are pointing strongly to this contest and are putting forth every effort in an attempt to finally emerge victor from this extended argument. In the Baptists, the Wildcats will meet a foe of rather uncertain qualities. At certain times this season, and during these intervals, it served fair warning that it could give and take plenty. But when this eleven has fallen, its descent has been long and terrible. We are inclined to think that these mishaps with State and Carolina are misleading as to the real prowess of the Deacons. In other words, we can't forget that showing the Baptists made against the strong William and Mary gridders. Nor was it a slouchy performance that they put up against the South Carolina Presbyterians.

Another thing that no Davidson man can easily forget is the presence on the team of a certain Johnnie Cox. Last year it took the best the Wildcat eleven could put into the final period to undo the havoc played by this single back on only two runs. Twice Cox received punts which he returned through the whole Davidson team for touchdowns. No doubt the 'Cats will be watching this gentleman pretty closely in Charlotte next Saturday, to see that he does not repeat.

Davidson-Wake Forest scores since 1920:
1920—Wake Forest 7, Davidson 27.
1921—Wake Forest 7, Davidson 10.
1922—Wake Forest 6, Davidson 6.
1923—Wake Forest 6, Davidson 0.
1925—Wake Forest 7, Davidson 7.
1926—Wake Forest 3, Davidson 3.
1927—Wake Forest 13, Davidson 13.

WITH DAVIDSON’S OPPONENTS
Among the games this week, the contest at Chapel Hill will likely cause much interest in football circles. Carolina has been planning for Tech since the beginning of the season and Tech is making a strong bid for national honors. N. C. State goes to Florida and Duke tries Georgetown. Other games for Saturday follow:
Guilford vs. Elon, at Elon.
Wofford vs. Furman, at Greenville.
Wake Forest vs. Davidson, at Charlotte.
V.M.I. vs. Richmond, at Lexington.
U.N.C. vs. Ga. Tech, at Chapel Hill.
N.C. State vs. Florida, at Tampa.
Duke vs. Georgetown, at Washington.

Cothran, Carroll, Brown, Stackhouse.
Davidson: Goodykoontz, McMillan, Covington, Estridge.
Officials: Referee, Cheves (Georgia); umpire, Hartsell (North Carolina State); linesman, Rawson (Georgia).

DAVIDSON CLASHES CLASS BASKETBALL SCHEDULE STARTED
In the first game of the interclass basketball tournament last Thursday, the Sophomores beat the Seniors by a score of 23 to 16. The game was not nearly so close as the score seems to indicate. The Sophs were masters of the situation at all times and were never out of the lead. The first half was a close affair, ending 9 to 8 in favor of the Sophs, but the Seniors could neither hit the basket in the second half nor keep their opponents from doing so, and they quickly dropped behind. For the Sophomores, Smith at guard and Rusk at center turned in very good games. Besides playing the guard position well, Smith was tied with Gilmour, of the Seniors, for high-point man with 9 points each. Gilmour, at guard, was the outstanding star of the Senior quintet, scoring over half of his team’s points. Soph forward, also looked good. The game was marred by a great deal of roughness.

In the second inter-class basketball game of the season, also played Thursday evening, the Juniors walloped the Freshmen by the decisive score of 36 to 15. Although the Freshmen scored first, the Juniors quickly overcame the lead with three goals and held it with a safe margin for the rest of the game. The outstanding star of the Juniors was Johnston, right forward. He tied with his fellow-teammate Moore for high-point man, each garnering 12 points. Moore also played a jam-up game. Although the Freshmen were not given an opportunity to show anything, Hutaff and Montgomery, Fresh forwards, showed themselves to be stellar players. If the whole team had not been so completely overshadowed, they would have shown up as brilliant stars. The game was remarkably free from fouls, only three being chalked up. Both teams used many substitutes.

Wofford Freshmen Bow To Kitts 20-0
Wildkittens under the tutelage of “Buck” Miles invaded the lair of the Little Terriers and avenged the defeat of the varsity by a 20-0 win. The Kittens presented a speedy attack and scored touchdowns in each of the first three periods. Outweighed by the Terriers, the Kittens fought gamely to the goal with speed and precision which led to all of their scores. The strength of the Wofford line was good, but they were not quick enough to stem the charge and drive of the Davidson team. Wofford’s tackles played well in the line for the losers. Ross and Moore were in the thick of every scrimmage and made it hot on both offense and defense. Willis, the left half for the Terriers, played a good all-round game.

Davidson's first score came about the middle of the first quarter when Goodson broke loose from the center of the field and romped over the goal line. He kicked goal for the extra point. The second score of the game came after a series of passes, the last to King, who put the ball within scoring distance. Goodson took the ball over and then kicked the extra point. The final marker came in the third period after the Wildkittens had marched to the four-yard line and R. Bradshaw took it over. Goodson failed to kick goal.

The line-up was as follows:
Davidson (20) Position Wofford (0)
Roper Left End
Ross Left Tackle
Alexander Left Guard
Carroll Center
Meyers Right Guard
Moore Right Tackle
Murph Right End
Goodson Quarterback
Willis Left Halfback
R. Bradshaw Right Halfback

(Continued on page 6)

"Not a cough in a Film-ful"
Norma Talmadge after the Blindfold Test

“When you see my new United Artists’ picture, “The Woman Disputed,” you will notice that I smoke cigarettes in several scenes. Not wanting to show partiality to any one of the four leading brands, I decided to make my choice via the blindfold test, which I had heard of many times. Happily, I picked OLD GOLDS. I found them smooth, mild and delightfully cool. Hereafter, when I am required to smoke I shall naturally insist on OLD GOLDS. There’s not a cough in a film-ful!”

NORMA TALMADGE, celebrated screen star, smoking OLD GOLDS in a scene from her latest United Artists’ starring vehicle, “The Woman Disputed.”

THE INCOMPARABLE NORMA, one of the best-loved actresses in the history of the screen, famous for her roles in “Camille” and “Kiki.” Made from the heart-leaves of the tobacco plant, their honey-like smoothness, and that’s why you can pick them with your eyes closed. That’s the reason for SMOOTHER AND BETTER—“NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD”