u 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 9, 1928

LACY AND WEISIGER
(Continued from page one)

The Union Theological Seminary quartet will accompany Dr. Lacy and sing at the Wednesday night meeting. Dr. Lacy and the
quartet are due to arrive in Davidson in time for him to preach Sunday morning in the church. They will
remain on the campus until the meeting on Wednesday night, the 15th. Dr. Lacy will cover the entire field of
Ministry in his address, but the interviews will be divided into the four fields of Home and Foreign Missions, and
the country and city pastor, and will be held nightly from 7:30 to 9:30.

For the possible edification of the few who are not familiar with the name Ben Lacy, he is now the
president of Union Theological Seminary, one of the South’s excellent seminaries. Before this, Dr. Lacy was a pastor in the
Central Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga. He was a fighting parson in the World War. He has been on the
Home Mission field. And of interest to students, he is a former student of Davidson. Therefore, Dr. Lacy is especially
well adapted to this type of work, and will be able to do the maximum of good in the way
of assistance and guiding aid, in the short time allotted to this particular vocation.

Since interviews are to be the central thing in the whole Vocational Guidance Institute, there will be numerous types of
interviews and several interviewers in addition to the Seminary quartet and Dr. Lacy. Dr. Rowan, of Concord, and Dr. Raynal,
of Statesville, are among several who are due to be here. Quite a number of Charlotte ministers of various denominations
have offered their aid in the way of interviews in Charlotte, not being able to come over to Davidson.

When we think of track we feel that we really have something to look forward to since the return of
the cinder path captain. Things looked pretty gloomy for this sport for a while, but now there are certain events
which we can count on winning in every meet. We don’t know what the baseball team will do this year
or what the freshmen will uncover in the way of track and baseball material, but the outlook is fairly bright
nevertheless.

CARD OF THANKS
We wish to express our deepest appreciation to our friends in Davidson and other places for the many manifestations of
their sympathy and love during the recent illness and decease of our dear father,
Miss Louise Cowan
Mrs. G. C. Gibson
Mrs. J. M. Barnette

For Heating and Plumbing Contractor of Rare Excellence See Elliott & Byers Phone 78-W

Week End Guests
The following were visitors at the different fraternities last week-end:

Pi Kappa Phi: Eva Hackney and Lu-Gardner, who come from Union Seminary, Salem, N. S.; Lib Darling, Isenhour, Charlotte contractors,
will build the northern wing, on which construction will be begun at once, will provide laboratory and classroom facilities for
all sciences included in the Davidson curriculum, with a building of its own adjacent to the site of the new
memorial structure. Blythe and Ministry in his address, but the interviews will be divided into the four fields of Home
and Foreign Missions, and the country and city pastor, and will be held nightly from 7:30 to 9:30.

S. A. E.: Beryl Jones, Durham; Techlar Matson, Rockdale Prince; Mimi Belle, Converse; Julia Russell, Judith Hill, Winthrop; Mary Mills
Holms, Mary Louise Wadsworth, Charlotte; Margaret Baker, Vera Webb Oates, Hollins; Anne Cannon, Concord; Eugenea McLean, Lumberton; Cynthia Bagley, N.
C. C. W.; Eleanor McKinnon, Hartsville, S. C.; Katherine Whitener, High Point; Frances McCormick, Laurinburg.

Pyramid: Louise Harry, Salisbury; Anna Hyde, Charleston, S. C.; Frances Thompson, Pittsboro; Charlotte Guy, Martha Gardner, Charlotte.

Delta Theta Chi: Dorothy Hendon, Elizabeth Hendon, Evelyn Jackson, Asheville; Mary Brandt, N. C. C. W.; Tootsie Howard, Winthrop; Mary
Moore Montgomery, Queens; Douglas Rankin, Charlotte; Mary McNinch, Queens; Sarah Bowen, Bluefield, W. Va.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Hazel Townsend, Edna York, Georgia; Townsend, Winthrop; Mary McLaurin, “Dit” Quarles, Charlotte; Tommy Hollis, Greensboro; Nancy Shute,
Converse.

T. U. O.: Julia Josephs, Evelyn Josephs, Maude Spencer, Helen Berry, Charlotte; Ruth Lowrance, Statesville; Larry Hornthal, Norfolk, Va.; Julia
McKinney, Lois Smith, Salisbury; Bebe Stancill, Louise Garibaldi, Mary Harding, Miss Mitchell, Charlotte.

Beta Theta Pi: Edna Carson, Minerva Wylie, Winthrop; Mary Sheppard Gray, Frances Lineberger, Hollins; Isabelle Dunn, Salem; Alice McLean, Peace;
Penelope Cannon, Concord; Virginia Reed, Converse; Annie Gray Johnson, Tarboro; Grayce McCracken, N. C. C. W.; Elizabeth Simpson, Greensboro.

CONSTRUCTION TO START
(Continued from page 1)

Contracts for the construction of the central section will be awarded as soon as sufficient funds have been received. Plans
submitted by Henry C. Hibbs, Nashville architect and designer of the new building, provide general laboratories, lecture rooms, individual research
laboratories, libraries, and faculty offices for each of the sciences of physics, geology, and biology. These will all be located
in the northern wing. The first floor and basement of the northern wing will be given over to the physics
department of the college, whose valuable scientific apparatus has been temporarily housed in a wooden structure since the destruction of
the old building in 1921. Special arrangements have been made to provide for the installation of heavy machinery, including dynamos,
motors, transformers, and radio equipment, used by this department in its laboratory studies.

Great enthusiasm has been manifested by students and professors in the science departments of the college as a result of
the announcement that space has been set aside in the northern wing for a scientific museum, to contain valuable scientific
models, minerals, and specimens collected by members of the science faculty. Valuable curios, documents, and scientific relics were destroyed with
the burning of the old building, and special emphasis has been placed on the fire-proof construction of the new plant.
The museum, which is to occupy the entire level, space being equally divided among the courses of general biology, botany,
embryology, and histology. To the costly scientific equipment already owned by the college, it is believed, will be added other
apparatus for which space has been lacking up to this time. Electric, gas, and water connections, together with new laboratory
tables and lecture room furniture, will be installed in the scientific halls.

Mrs. Hengeveld Injured in Automobile Accident
Wife of Registrar Loses Control of Car as She and Small Daughter Receive Minor Bruises

Mrs. Fred Hengeveld, and her five-year-old daughter, Virginia, escaped serious injury from an automobile accident in Davidson on the afternoon
of Wednesday, February 1. Mrs. Hengeveld was driving her Hudson sedan on Concord street, when she lost control in her
efforts to choke the car. The choker was working with difficulty, and Mrs. Hengeveld, in order to prime the car,
which was not running well, took both hands from the steering wheel. At the same time, she suffered a light
fainting spell, and although both the brake and clutch were flat with the floorboards, the car swerved, running into two
telephone poles, cutting them at their base. The poles fell heavily across the top of the machine. The car was
not traveling at a very rapid rate of speed or the accident may have been more severe.

Ramon Navarro in Harry Langdon Davidson Theatre MONDAY'TUESDAY
Good Time Charlie

WEDNESDAY
Joan Crawford in Rose Marie

THURSDAY
Joan Crawford in Rose Marie

FRIDAY
Norma Shearer in The Latest from Paris

SATURDAY
Rin-Tin-Tin in The Dog of the Regiment
The Student Prince in The Cleaver

The construction of which is being postponed until after the meeting of the board of trustees and until additional funds
have been secured, will contain an auditorium capable of seating more than 1,200 persons, and providing facilities for college exercises
of every type. A stage, 25 feet by 66 feet in size, will be equipped with electrical and scenic devices
calculated to encourage the dramatic and musical talents of the students. Space is being set aside for an organ room,
in which it is hoped an organ and chimes will be installed. Dressing rooms, equipped with every convenience, will be
located near the stage.

Directly below the auditorium, and on a level with the entrance of the building, will be a large banquet hall
with adjoining kitchens, to be used for various social functions of the college. Just to the right of the auditorium
a large room is to be set aside for use of the trustees and faculty in their meetings. An imposing
dome, occupying the top of the central unit, will be constructed so as to provide a special club room, appropriately
furnished. The entrance to the new building will be supported by six stone pillars, surmounted by a design of the
college seal and other sculptured effects. The lawns surrounding the new building will be terraced, and planted in new grass
and shrubbery. Tennis courts which at the present time occupy that portion of the campus directly alongside the south wing
of the building, will be moved to a new location at the rear of the campus, where 14 new courts
are now under construction.

“Y” Column
As mentioned before, the leaders at Y this week will be Bill Cochran and Bill to take charge of the
vespers and also to talk to fellows who are considering going into the ministry. These two were both leaders while
in college, and are fine examples of workers for the Master. With them will be Dr. Lacy, who will also
remain here for several days, to especially interview any seniors who may be intending to go into the Seminary. Let’s
bring the attendance average up this week, and give these leaders a good hearing.

Vocational Guidance will start this Monday, and will at first be under the direction of Mr. Weisiger, personnel director of
the Southern Bell Telephone Co. He will speak at chapel on Monday, and will explain the main ideas regarding Vocational
Guidance, and discuss it so as to inform the student body as to the institute and its workings. He will
be here for one or two days, to talk to men who may be interested in considering lining up with
the Southern Bell people, and will also be very glad to talk to anyone on problems of vocational guidance that
might be bothering them. A fuller article on the Vocational Guidance Institute will be found elsewhere in this issue, so
look for that if you desire further information. News will be given later as to the other divisions of the
Institute.

HARD-FOUGHT MATCH
(Continued from page 1)
135 lb. class—Thompson, Carolina, won over Herriott, Davidson, with a time advantage of 1 minute, 22 seconds.
145 lb. class—Garrison, of Davidson, and Abbott, of Carolina, fought to a draw.
158 lb. class—Christenbury, Davidson, won over Moore, Carolina, with time advantage of 2 minutes, 53 seconds.
175 lb. class—Hill, Davidson, won over Houghton, Carolina, with a time advantage of 45 seconds.
Unlimited class—Twyford, Carolina, won over Baker, Davidson, with time advantage of 2 minutes, 46 seconds.

BASKETEERS DEFEAT
(Continued from page 1)
upsetting the ’Cats. Some fancy shooting by Bennie McAuley, and the splendid defensive play of Captain Wilson and Harrison enabled
Davidson to stave off the closing threat of the Elonites and stow away a rip-roaring basketball game. At four different
times during the evening the score was tied and it was a fight all the way for a lead of
even two points. Wilson played one of the best defensive games of his worthy career, and his lanky form was
in the thick of every play. He was ably abetted by Charlie Harrison, in guard duty. Newman, the left-handed star
of Elon, was a constant threat to the Wildcat hopes, this forward chalking up 14 points for high-point honors of
the contest. Referee Rawson began to call fouls right and left in the closing minutes of play, and the game
more than once depended on making one of these foul shots good. It was in the last 30 seconds that
Kugler dropped one in and put the game safely away.

Summary of the two games:
Elon (37) Pos. Davidson (40)
Walker (8) Forward McAuley (12)
Newman (14) Forward Pritchett (10)
Sitis (6) Center Wilson (13)
Griffithfield Guard Harrison (2)
Briges (2) Guard Hewlette (1)
Subs—Elon: Hamrick (7); Davidson: Kugler (2). Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

Davidson (53) Pos. Wofford (31)
McAuley (2) Forward Bagwell
Pritchett (15) Forward Lockman (14)
Wilson (13) Center Sheler (10)
Harrison (8) Guard Dargan
Hewlette Guard Adams (1)
Subs—Davidson: Kugler (5); Johnson, and Baker; Wofford: Brown (6), Turner, and McLeod. Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE
The field of that vocation and to help men in any way possible to choose. More specifically, in the words
of the chairman of the committee: “The Vocational Guidance Institute is created in the interest of the student body to
each member of which will be given an opportunity such as comes to few men.”

PROF. VOWLES’ TEXTBOOK
(Continued from page 1)
acceptance as a suitable textbook for college work, and it is expected that it will come into general use before
very long.

JUNIOR ORATORS
W. K. Pritchett, chairman of the Junior Oratorical Committee, requests that all those men wishing to compete in the Junior
Oratoricals, which are to be held during Junior Speaking, taking place some time in the latter part of the month
of April, will turn their names in to him at 110 West, by February 13. Preliminaries will likely be held
in March.

HATS SWEATERS EVENING DRESS
Feb. 10 and 11 had more serious consequences, Mrs. Hengeveld escaped with slight bruises and a nervous shock, but the
little girl received a heavy blow on the forehead, and was badly shaken up. After medical attention, though, she was
removed from immediate danger, and is improving rapidly. The accident occurred in mid-afternoon, and attracted quite a number of witnesses
among the townspeople. Mr. Hengeveld was hurried to the scene and attended the injured.

CLOTHES SHOES TIES
Showing at Miss Minnie’s
James S. Branch, Rep.
SUITS AND TOPCOATS
FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS AND MORE
TAILORED TO MEASURE
CAPS HOSIERY ACCESSORIES
Friday and Saturday
