THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1928

Minneapolis, Minn. (By New Student Service)—Professional and not educational organizations are setting the standards for professional schools, to the great
detriment of unhampered teaching, writes Dean Frederick J. Kelly, of the University of Minnesota, in a newly published paper on
“The Influence of Standardizing Agencies in Education.” By keeping up approved lists and threatening to strike schools from these lists,
says Dean Kelly, outside agencies are playing a large part in determining the schools’ requirements. He points to three dangers
growing out of this situation: endangering of public confidence on the ground that the profession limits the numbers of entrants,
thus increasing fees for professional services; an influence disproportionate to the demand for curriculum adjustments, and uniformity in practice stifling
experimentation and impeding progress. Law, medical, pharmaceutical, and dental associations are named as the most influential agencies.

Chapel Hill, N. C. (By New Student Service)—“In America today one does not attain literary success merely by writing good
literature, but by accomplishing some such feat as flying the Atlantic or going to the North Pole, then writing about
it.” The complainant was Richard Halliburton, traveler and author, who spoke recently at the University of North Carolina. His advice
to literary aspirants is: “Do not hope to add to your ability by reading the works of other writers. It
is a waste of time; you must write from your own rich experience and develop unaided your own style. Mingle
with people, all classes, live with them, know their lives, try to feel all the emotions of men, and don’t
stay in one spot, move about; it is only through these things that you will acquire a true sense of
values.” Mr. Halliburton’s contribution to the question of deleterious effects of studies in journalism on creative writing was, “Oh no,
such a course could only be beneficial; but ten years on a hard-boiled newspaper staff might have some bad effects.”

Madison, Wis. (By New Student Service)—University of Wisconsin students are in disagreement over the case of David Gordon, Zona Gale
scholar sentenced to prison for a derogatory poem concerning America, whose freedom has been asked in a petition signed by
almost 1,000 undergraduates, sent to the New York parole board. The petition was sponsored by the Student Forum, which hardly
has had time to recover from the Dora Russell imbroglio. Some students are pointing to the petition and shouting “treason”
and “un-American,” and accusing the Forum of railroading the appeal for parole. However, the “Cardinal,” and numerous students, are sincerely
protesting the prison sentence imposed on the young student, and are asking for his release on the grounds of his
sincerity, integrity, and general character. The New York World has joined in the appeal for a parole.

New York, N. Y. (By New Student Service)—College editors throughout the land are applauding the action of the Western Association
of College Comics in breaking their...

Roddey Elected Captain

At a recent meeting of the varsity tennis men, John T. Roddey was elected captain of the tennis team for
next year. Albert N. Halverstadt was chosen to manage the team during the next season. Roddey, a member of Beta
Theta Pi social fraternity, has been one of Davidson’s most consistent netmen throughout his stay of three years here. He
was a member of the Fresh team during his first year and has since been on the varsity each season.
Roddey served as secretary-treasurer of his Freshman class and vice-president of the class during his Sophomore year. He has also
been a member of the Student Council. He is from Rock Hill, S. C.

A. N. Halverstadt, of Atlanta, Ga., is also a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He served during the
present year on the Freshman Court of Control, and is a member of the Beaver Club, a Sophomore honor society.
He played on the Freshman team last year. The Davidson netmen have done consistently excellent work during the past two
years, losing only one match in the two seasons.

Contract Let for Year Book of 1929

To those interested in the Davidson “Quips and Cranks,” the management announces that the contracts have been let for the
1929 Year Book. “The Queen City Printing Company” and the “Charlotte Engraving Company” are to have full charge of the
production of next year’s Annual. These two concerns are specially adapted to do this work, as they both have very
competent workmen in their service. The 1927 Annual can speak for itself in regard to the quality of the art
and engraving work done.The book will be made by concerns which are close enough to enable the staff to supervise
the work without great inconvenience to either party concerned. It might be well to announce to friends of the Annual
who are not aware of the fact, that the 1927 “Quips and Cranks” won the national prize for the best
annual from a college with a student body of a thousand or less. This Annual was made by the same
concerns that are making the present annual. It will be released sometime during the Senior exam period.

Reprint contracts with “College Humor.” It is generally agreed that the humorous magazine, which purports to reflect college life, has
been giving a distorted view. The break was especially applauded by editors in the East, who from the first were
among the few who refused to join in syndicating the content of the college comics. The Daily Nebraskan, however, holds
that the fault lies primarily with the college comic editors, who published the jokes which “College Humor” is accused of
giving too prominent display. Elimination of the objectionable jokes from the college magazines would, it says, more properly strike at
the root of the evil.

Yellow Springs, Ohio (By New Student Service)—That Andre Siegfried’s popular book, “America Comes of Age,” was written in English, largely
by Americans, and is not a translation from the French, is the conclusion advanced by Dr. Arthur E. Morgan, president
of Antioch College, in an article he wrote for the “Antiochan.” Dr. Morgan bases his conjecture on internal evidence, such
as “statements which show unusual first-hand knowledge of America” and certain “pepped-up” portions of the book. He suggests that Siegfried
may be another Dumas who makes use of assistants and understudies.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see MJP. Crawford
QUICK SERVICE - BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

Special Y Program For Mother’s Day
In keeping with the day which is set aside each year in honor of Motherhood everywhere, the Y.M.C.A. will hold
one of its most impressive programs in Shearer Hall on next Sunday evening, May 13th. Preparations have been made to
make this program especially fitting in its tribute to our mothers and to all that mother-love means. The speaker for
the occasion is to be Mrs. E. G. Finley, of North Wilkesboro, and her message will be very appropriate at
this time. There will also be some special music during the program. It is hoped by the Y.M.C.A. that all
of the students will realize the significance of the day and make the “Y” service express the personal tribute of
every boy to his mother. Therefore the “Y” urges everyone to be present on Sunday evening at 6:15.

R.O.T.C. Signs Fifty-one to Take Advance Course
In the recent registration for courses next year the R.O.T.C. department enrolled the largest number in the history of the
unit at Davidson, 51 being the number. Last year the number to sign up was 41, however, at the opening
of school in the fall only 36 took the course. The growing success of the unit at Davidson has been
a great incentive to the students to take the advance course. Davidson for the past two years has won the
distinguished rating and last year this honor was won with an unusual record, Davidson ranking among the leading R.O.T.C. units
in America. Those taking the advance course are allowed the regular college credits for the work done in this line,
and also get a small financial remuneration for their work. During the summer vacation between the Junior and Senior year
the student must attend an R.O.T.C. camp for six weeks. There the student is given thorough practical training in the
same kind of work that is taught at Davidson. On finishing the course the student may enlist in the Reserve
Corps as a second lieutenant, and if the marks of the student are sufficient to meet the requirements he may
enter the regular army as a second lieutenant. The interest at Davidson in this branch of study has steadily increased
since its installation several years ago.

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.
Founded 1874
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,000,000.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
I. W. STEWART, Vice-President and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. DUKE, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
M. T. WILKINSON, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

The Students’ Store, under new management, will continue to serve the student body as it has done in the past,
and will carry on in the progressive spirit of the past.

The Students’ Store
L. D. KIRKLAND, Manager
C. R. LAKE, Manager
“IT’S YOURS; WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?”
