THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 23, 1928

Debate With University Frosh

The Davidson Freshmen debates this spring will be held first with Carolina. There is a possibility of the Duke University
debating team coming in and forming a triangle. However, in either case, Davidson will have two teams, one affirmative and
one negative, with two men on each team. The preliminary debates, in which the subject for discussion will be, "Resolved,
That Congress Should Enact a Uniform System of Marriage and Divorce Laws," will be held on March 13th. The Freshmen
intercollegiate debaters will choose their subject at a later date. The Freshmen debates will take place about May 1st. Some
good debating is promised by the Freshmen team, and an interesting discussion is expected for and against the subject for
the preliminary debates. Regular practices have been held by the Freshmen team and each member is preparing himself well for
the coming preliminaries in March.

Spanish Club Holds Initiation for Eight

The Spanish Club of Davidson College held its initiation on Tuesday night, February 14th, in Shearer Hall. Eight men were
taken into the society at this time. These men were: S. L. Gant, J. T. Matthews, Louis Hart, B. F.
Brown, A. G. Randolph, Archie Carr, Jack Pepper, and D. F. Cannon. The initiation proper was followed by a "feed"
and general get-together period. The members of this club are first recommended by the professor and then must be passed
upon by a committee of students appointed by the president of the club. Election to the society is based upon
proficiency in the Spanish language, attained by real effort and interest in the class. The present officers of the club
are: President, John McKnight; vice-president, Ralph Glenn; secretary,

BISHOP PENICK (Continued from page 1)

The affirmative will debate here at Davidson. The God of love, for He sent to us Jesus Christ to impart
this love to man. God's love gives us what He possesses; it is a self-imparting love. God made Himself known
by partial revelations to various men until "in the fullness of time" He made a full disclosure of Himself in
Jesus Christ. We must think of Christ as our Saviour rather than as our Redeemer, because a man who has
no sense of sin will not feel indebted to Christ merely as a Redeemer. Some men think that their sins
are an inheritance, a thing that has been handed down to them from their forefathers, and that it is impossible
to escape from them. Jesus did not look on sin as an inheritance. No man in the world is able
to save himself from sin. He fights a losing fight every time, because evil is stronger than the will of
the strongest man. Sin is the power of the devil that operates in the spiritual world, and the only way
to overcome sin and the only power sufficient to counteract it is the Christ revealed as Saviour. Christ is our
inward power. The feeling that He is near us and with us gives us that inward power so that we
may make actual the things that we admire. It is the presence of this new life and inward spirit that
gives man consolation, hope, and a personality that is greater than his own. Man cannot pull himself up; the power
must come from above, man must catch hold of Christ.

MID-WINTER MEETING (Continued from page one)

The by-laws of the board, chief of which was the provision that the alumni of Davidson College will be allowed
to select 12 men as trustees of the school instead of six as formerly. Because of the fact that the
college has added several new professors to the faculty this year, the expenditures of the college for the past year
have been slightly over those of previous years, as was shown in the report of the treasurer, Mr. F. L.
Jackson. In other respects, the school's financial condition is normal. The participation of every student in some form of physical
training came in for considerable discussion. The president of the college was instructed to employ an instructor in physical education.
In addition, all juniors and seniors not taking advanced R.O.T.C. will be required to engage in some form of sport
for a period of three months during the year, this feature being a requirement for graduation. A recommendation that the
freshman class be given another hour of physical training in the R.O.T.C. department was approved. The next meeting of the
board of trustees will be held on the campus the Tuesday of Commencement Week. The officers and executive committee will
be elected at this meeting for the next year.

Dr. Luther Little has definitely accepted, and will be here on Monday and Tuesday, the 27th and 28th, to take
charge of the personal work institute. There will be an open meeting Tuesday night for those interested in work of
this sort, its appeal, technique, and the like. Dr. Little is especially well qualified to take charge of these meetings,
being the pastor of a large city church, a great worker, and the author of "Manse Dwellers."Appleby if you want
further information on this.

REQUEST ON CLOSE (Continued from page 1)

Literary address and alumni reception on Tuesday; graduation exercises, awarding of college medals, and senior oratorical contest on Wednesday, May
30, closing the school year.

Delegates Entertained by Duke University—Davidson Men Hold State and National Offices

The seventeenth annual conference of the North Carolina Student Volunteer Union met at Duke University on the 17th, 18th, and
19th of February. Colleges throughout the state were represented; many of the delegates being natives of foreign countries, so that
the conference had somewhat of an international aspect, this being especially so in the talks that were made by native-born
Chinese, Korean, Japanese, and African students.

Davidson College was represented by 13 members of the local Volunteer Band. Among the representatives of Davidson was Glenn Fry,
who, for the past year, has been president of the North Carolina Union. Upon the expiration of his term of
office at the recent conference, Glenn was chosen as council member of the National Union from this state in recognition
of his service as president of the State Union. Another of Davidson’s representatives who has played a large part in
the affairs of the North Carolina Union was J. M. Andrew, who has just given up the editorship of the
“Volunteer,” the organ of the State Union, and which, under the retiring editor’s hands, has become the leading publication of
its kind in the country. Davidson was also honored by having John Bradley placed on the committee of missionary education.

The theme of the conference was “The Challenge of Missions to World College Youth Today,” and the whole program bore
out this theme. As was previously mentioned, talks were made by several foreign students in regard to missionary work in
their countries and following them were discussion groups. The closing address was made by Dr. Edmund D. Soper, dean of
the School of Religious Education at Duke University, in which he spoke on the unique and distinctive elements of Christianity.
The conference was fortunate to have four speakers on the program who spoke at the International Convention which met in
Detroit last December.

Entertainment was provided bountifully by Duke University for the delegates and those who went from Davidson wish to express their
appreciation for the many kindnesses. One feature of the entertainment was a Korean play that was presented with a Korean
taking the leading role. It might be said here, too, that one of the sights of the conference was Johnny
Preston, of Davidson, who was born in Korea, and his two Korean friends with whom he attended a Korean dinner
in Durham.

Those who went from Davidson to the conference were Glenn Fry, J. M. Andrew, W. K. Forbes, R. T. Morrison,
Shelby Vance, John Pope, Robert Turner, John Preston, Brice Miller, G. F. Houck, Jack Matthews, and Ben M. Drake.

N.C.C.W. Proctor System Changed by Girls’ Vote

At a recent mass meeting of the students of N.C.C.W., it was decided to try a new proctor system in
the dormitories. By the old system, two proctors were elected for every hall at the beginning of each semester, working
with a house committee composed of the house president, vice-house-president, and all the proctors. The new plan which has been
suggested and is to be used is to have every girl except members of the senate serve as proctors for
a length of time which will be determined by each house president, according to the number of girls in her
dormitory. Under this system, the house committee will be composed of the house president, house vice-president, and three proctors. This
proctor system will go into effect as soon as schedules can be made out and posted.

Secretary-treasurer, Francis Ghigo.

Beggar—"Kind lady, I was not always like this.”
Lady—"No. Last week it was your other arm that was missing.”

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see M. P. Crawford
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Something Is Always Taking the Joy Out of Life
By BRIGGS

WHEN YOU'VE BEEN TO FOUR SHOWS IN FOUR MONTHS

WHEN YOU FINALLY GET A CALL FOR A "TRYOUT" AND JUST AS YOU'RE WONDERING HOW MUCH LONGER YOU CAN KEEP
UP YOUR DAILY FAST

OH, FOR THE GOOD OLD DAYS OF FREE LUNCH COUNTERS

ZIEGFELD'S LOOKING FOR A NEW JUVENILE

WITH FLOPS, YOU DO A COUGHING ACT HITTING YOUR PET HIGH NOTES

YOU GET A TIP THAT THERE'S A FAT PART IN A NEW SHOW JUST MADE FOR YOU

WELL, I HOPE HE AIN'T STRUCK BLIND BEFORE HE SEES ME

THE SMOOTHER AND BETTER CIGARETTE - NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD

© 1928, P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

SAY, AIN'T YOU HEARD OF OLD GOLDS? NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD!
