THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

Prelims in Oratorical Meet Held Here in Feb.

The preliminaries for the State Oratorical Contest will be held here on Tuesday, February 20. The following men have expressed
their intention of entering these: H. T. Powell, W. W. Harrison, J. P. McKnight, H. E. Russell, Zeb Long, Murray
Christian, Allan Frew, and “Red” Beavers. The writer at this time will represent Davidson at the State contest, which will
be held here on March 30. The entrants in this will be the winners in the preliminaries of the other
colleges in the State. A regional contest will then be held for the winners of the different states, and the
winners of the several regions will then enter the finals at Los Angeles. The first prize offered here will be
$1,500. This contest is under the auspices of the State of California for more interest in the United States Constitution,
and the following subjects are allowed: “The Constitution,” “Washington and the Constitution,” “Jefferson and the Constitution,” “Franklin and the Constitution,”
and “Lincoln and the Constitution.”

New Courses

Beginning with the new semester, there will be added additional opportunities to students seeking education along these lines and who
may be able to take them. The new courses are as follows:

Education under Mr. Henderson. The purpose of this study is to bring any students who may have a teaching career
in mind up to the standard of the state for A-grade teaching certificates.

Advanced Public Speaking 1, which will be taught by Mr. McGrew. This will be open to any Sophomores who might
wish to continue the compulsory public speaking work.

History 2 and 3 under Dr. Lingle.

Advertising (Business Psychology) under Dr. Hood, head of Psychology.

Geography under Dr. Porter. This course will take up a study of North America.

DR. F. W. SHEPARDSON

Dr. Shepardson suggested new fraternities which could be introduced here and advised the committee on the present fraternity housing question.
He was a guest of the Beta Theta Pi and visited several other fraternities while on the campus. Dr. Shepardson
recalled his first visit to Davidson in 1911, and the impression which the college made on him at that time.
He averred that subsequent visits to the institution have served to strengthen his original admiration for the college. "I have
ever been a strong believer in the college which emphasizes human friendships more than stone buildings and tremendous endowments," he
said.

Annual Catalogue in Hands of Publishers

Announcement from the Registrar's office recently stated that material for the annual catalog of the College had been sent to
the publishers and that distribution would be made soon. There will be few changes in this number outside of additions
to the courses to be offered, new professors, and a complete list of the members of the student body and
R. O. T. C. Department. Rules governing the students will remain practically the same as in past years, and several
that were applicable years ago and applied to conditions of that time will probably be omitted as they have no
application at the present time. Prospective students are sent these catalogs.Upon request, in order that they may gain some idea
entering and may be guided in the selection of their courses, various sections of the book will be devoted to
a list of the governing officials, the faculty, a brief historical sketch, the term of admission, requirements for degrees, and
glimpses into various college organizations and activities along with other subjects.

A Scotsman spent that night there. Well, thank you.

DAVIDSON DIAMOND ARTISTS
(Continued from page one)
April 2—Guilford at Guilford.
April 3—Lynchburg at Lynchburg.
April 4—Lynchburg at Lynchburg.
April 5—Roanoke at Roanoke.
April 6—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
April 9—Carolina at Salisbury.
April 10—University of Penn at Davidson.
April 13—Wake Forest at Davidson.
May 10—Elon at Elon.
April 16—Oglethorpe at Davidson.
April 17—Oglethorpe at Davidson.
April 18—Lynchburg at Davidson.
April 19—Lynchburg at Davidson.
April 20—Furman at Davidson.
April 25—Duke at Davidson.
April 27—Lenoir-Rhyne at Hickory.
May 5—Guilford at Davidson.
May 9—Duke at Durham.
May 11—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
May 12—N. C. State at Raleigh.

...were passed a number of the institution before with New York and Sandy slept very well, except that now and
then visited Pennsylvania Punch Bowl.

He declared, “and I believe that Davidson is such an institution. The true soul adds new victories unto itself until
it passes at last from the imperfection of the present to the perfection that lies beyond. Davidson remains unique among
the colleges and universities of our nation, and I would grieve to see her attempt to mimic other institutions. The
atmosphere and traditions that prevail here are inspiring,” he said.

EAT AT THE MEDITATION ASTOR LUNCH
(Continued from page 1)
SERVICE

To the existence and nature of God are in desperate need of resting by the still waters until He is
willing to lead to real truth. All the worrying and questioning in the world will never reveal the solution of
problems; man must wait in meditation to be led of God. Preacher or businessman that fails to enrich his life
with these periods of communion will lose his zest to serve and will fail to have a Christian life of
depth and consecration.

F. D. Miller stressed the fact that Jesus was in constant prayer when approaching any great crisis in life. After
healing the man with the withered hand, “He went out to pray.”

A Complete Line of Drugs and Sundries
White Drug Co.

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.
Founded 1874
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
R. A. DUNN, President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
A. T. SUMMERY, Vice-President
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

The New in the World
213 N. Tryon St.

ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
Charlotte, N.C.

U.S.S. Saratoga
A Marvel of National Defense
GENERAL ELECTRIC

From this 214-acre deck, Uncle Sam’s battle planes can now leap into action—sure of a landing place on their return,
though a thousand miles from shore. This marvel of national defense was accomplished—and duplicated—when the airplane carrier, U.S.S. Saratoga, and
her sister ship, U.S.S. Lexington, were completely electrified. In each, four General Electric turbine-generators deliver, combined, 180,000 horsepower to the
propellers—enough to drive the ship at 33 knots (39 miles an hour)—enough to furnish light and power for a city
of half a million people. The design and construction of the electric equipment for the U.S.S. Saratoga and the U.S.S.
Lexington, to which college-trained men contributed in great measure, exemplify the part General Electric plays in promoting the welfare of
the nation.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
NEW YORK
