November 1, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

WILDKITTENS AND BLUE IMPS — FRIDAY

Deamon Deacons of WEST VIRGINIA Boy

Wildkittens Scrap Wildcats to Meet Shad Goodson New CAT TRAX Wake Forest Crush Blue Imps Friday Strong V. M. I. Team Fresh Captain As They Follow the Red and Crippled Wildcats

Tomorrow at 3:30 o'clock, on Richardson Field, the “Wildkittens” will pit themselves against the strong Duke Fresh eleven. The “Little Red Machine” will engage in a struggle to break the “Blue Squadron,” in its own headquarters. This day's business fairly bristles with appalling possibilities. Will the fighting ’Cats top the fray?

K. L. Goodson, better known as “Shad,” of Lincolnton, N. C., was recently elected to the captaincy of the 1928 Wildkitten football eleven. Goodson won a close contest and will lead thirty serious and determined Wildcats rolling toward the Valley of Virginia, the scene of many a furious battle. At Lexington, waiting to meet them, will be the embattled forces of the V. M. I. Cadets, led by that gallant captain, Ab Barnes, triple threat man, runner de luxe. Confident, and sure of victory, the Cadets may be surprised before the encounter is over. The Cats, smarting from unexpected defeats, are out for blood.

Two of the best backfield men in the entire South will be pitted against Davidson Saturday. Well do the Sons of Felix remember the high-stepping and elusive Hawkins, the first foreigner to cross the goal line on Richardson Field. Ab Barnes is the boy who runs wild without much provocation. The more tacklers there are after him, the better he dodges and side-steps, and his kicking and passing are the joy of the Corps. Barnes is to V. M. I. what McDowall was to State, and that is saying a lot for any team.

V. M. I. has a powerful team, as her record this fall shows. A 9-0 win over Virginia is the high spot of the Flying Squadron’s season so far. Monk Younger’s men have met with everything but success. The return of Black and Flinn to the Wildcat backfield will add immeasurable strength both to defense and offense, and with the line in pretty good shape, the Cadets may look for a hard scrap.

25-6 is a plenty bad licking to take from anybody, but it’s terrible when Wake Forest hands it out. Still, with all due respects to the winning club, we don’t think the Deacons have as strong a club as the score indicates. The varsity looked no better than the sophomores who started, and, all told, it looked like an ordinary ball club. The difference lay in Davidson's glaring weakness. Poor kicking and handling of punts, and poor defense against passes, nothing more, cost the Cats that game. They held well against line plays, but every attempted Deacon pass found a receiver wide open and completely uncovered. Something must be done about that sort of thing. No team can win until they learn to stop a pass once in a while at least.

Those first two breaks took a lot of the pep out of the Davidson men. It’s mighty hard to come back and win after adverse breaks like that. Riggs McConnell and Bob Kelt deserve the wreaths for that game. Riggs is playing a bang-up game at his center position. Every other play ended with Riggs swinging on some Deacon's legs. Bob shows his heels nearly every time he gets that ball. His run from kick-off was a beaut, but it was a hard pill to see it come in the last minute or two of play.

The local Jungaleers have lost their best opportunities to salt away some victories. Every remaining game will be an ordeal. The main thing necessary is a winning spirit. If that team goes out on the field feeling that they can win, they are bound to put up a better front. Let's get away from this pessimistic outlook. There will be enough of that without making it a general condition at every Davidson football game. We believe that team is going to end the season in better style than it has begun. At least, it’s going to play more heads-up football.

Needless to say, Buck Mills is priming his Kittens to trim the Blue Imps from Duke here Friday. The Imps are good—it will be a scrap whoever wins. But the Kittens are good, too, and when it’s all over we expect to find them on top. That frosh backfield has all the earmarks of a humdinger and the line is gaining strength daily. Those Bradshaw boys look like a couple of Jankoskie twins. Drive—whew!

Beary Kell’s Long Run and McConnell’s Defensive Work Are Shining Lights of Bad Defeat

Taking advantage of all the breaks that came their way, the Wake Forest Deacons succeeded in breaking the three-year tie with Davidson last Saturday. The final score was 25 to 6. The Wake Forest running attack gained ground consistently. Their defense was strong and had an unpleasant way of stiffening when a first down would have meant worlds to the Davidson cause. The breaks were what decided the game, to a large extent. They were responsible for two of the Deacon scores. However, the last two Deacon scores came as a result of their beautiful passing. The passing and running attacks of Wake Forest were extremely good. Through them, the ball was kept in Davidson territory for a good deal of the time. It seemed that the whole Deacon backfield could throw the ball and that everybody but the hurler could snag the passes from any angle necessary. Wake Forest attempted 15 passes and completed nine, a good average for anybody's team.

The Wildcats received and marched straight down the field. Davidson reeled off three quick first downs on this march, and it looked as though nothing could stop them. Things began to assume a very dark hue for the Deacon backers. But Wake Forest braced and Davidson was unable to make the necessary yards, the ball going over. Late in the first quarter, Kell fumbled the ball when he was tackled after catching a punt, and Wake Forest recovered on the three-yard line. Cox carried the ball over on the first play. Try for point failed. Kell got loose for 45 yards near the end of the second quarter, and together with Brohard and Goodykoontz carried the ball to the Wake Forest six-yard line. Here again the Deacon line stiffened and Davidson was held with only about six inches to go. The Foresters got two touchdowns in the third quarter.Deacon safety man received a punt on his own 40-yard line early in the quarter. It looked like he was down in his tracks, three or four ’Cats being on him. In some manner, though, he squirmed out and, eluding the whole team, he raced 60 yards for a score. Goal was missed. A bad punt gave the ball to Wake Forest on the Wildcat 30-yard line later in the quarter. Two beautiful passes put the ball on the six-yard line and Gibson smashed over for a score. Again the try for point failed. This was about the only thing Wake Forest seemed to be weak in. The Deacons got their last score in the fourth quarter, again as a result of passes. They got the ball in midfield and carried it over with two passes and an 18-yard run by Quillen. Extra point was made by passing. Kell scored the only Davidson touchdown by the most spectacular run of the game. Receiving the kick-off for the last touchdown on his 20-yard line, he streaked out towards the right, got past a whole flock of Deacons and showed a clean pair of heels to both teams. It was as pretty a run as has been seen in these parts for many moons. He did it with little or no help from his interference, literally outrunning those who attempted to down him. Kell was the outstanding star of the Wildcats. His spectacular runs furnished thrills aplenty for the customers. He could almost always be counted on to gain on an off-tackle smash. He played the safety position very well, although he made two or three errors of judgment. Brohard and Goodykoontz also played good games in the backfield. Riggs McConnell, center, shone brightly in the line. He seems to be all over the field at once. His tackling was hard and clean. His passing back of the ball was almost perfect. For Wake Forest, Hord and Quillen, in the backfield, and Captain Weir and Parker, in the line, played good games. Hord and Quillen were generally on one end or the other of the Deacon passes. Their work along this line was very good. Parker and Weir made themselves noticeable to Wildcat fans by their consistency in smearing plays.

(Continued on page 6)

This move to have the body buy uniforms for the band is a most commendable one. It means pep—pep—pep. Every- body is behind this—put it over.

DAN GOODYKOONTZ, Sophomore Quarterback, is going well for Monk.

With Davidson’s Opponents

After the dope upsets of last week, it would be hard to say which teams will win this week. Two old rivals, North Carolina and N. C. State, will battle at Raleigh. North Carolina showed a good offensive against Tech last Saturday, being one of the few teams that has scored on Tech in the last two years. They scored through a line over which Rockne’s men could not run. Citadel meets South Carolina at Orangeburg, and the game should be a close one, with Carolina holding the edge. Other games for this week are: Clemson vs. U. of Miss., at Oxford, Miss. Wofford vs. Presbyterian College, at Spartanburg. Citadel vs. South Carolina, at Orangeburg. Wake Forest vs. Furman, at Charlotte.

The Duke Freshman team this year comprises one of the greatest galaxies of high school captains and stars ever assembled. Among the outstanding stars may be mentioned Beaver, backfield star, a great punter and passer; Brewer, the Winston-Salem flash, who, with his passing and backfield work, bids fair to become another Buie; and finally, Duke's center, an all-American high school center. The “Kittens” have been steadily improving since their recent win from Wofford. Several new plays have been introduced specially for the Duke contest, and by Friday the freshmen expect to be “primed to perfection.” Among those who have been showing up especially well for Davidson may be mentioned Mathis, hard-hitting left guard, who had never seen a football game and thought a “pigskin” necessarily a part of a pig, until he came to Davidson; “Big” Bradshaw, flashy halfback; and the “Kittens’” imperturbable quarterback, Goodson. Inasmuch as the Davidson Freshmen haven't won from Duke in the last three years, they are awaiting the contest with blood in their eyes. Friday's game is the third of the five games scheduled for 1928. After Duke, the “Kittens” meet in order the N. C. State Freshmen and Asheville High School.

Davidson vs. V. M. I., at Lexington. N. C. State vs. U. N. C., at Raleigh. Duke vs. Mercer, at Durham.

Last Saturday, Al Barnes and his cohorts fought the Maryland “Old Liners” with unbelievable ferocity to a scoreless toss-up. Monday, Hewlett, Haase, and McCray, together with Captain Barnes, burst into headlines with their superb play. Barnes, “the flying phantom in red,” ripped off the major part of the “Squadron’s” nine first downs, also in the third quarter he hurled two passes for a total of 65 yards. Haase, having substituted for Smith early in the game, twice tore through the Maryland line to throw backs for losses of 10 and eight yards. McCray’s offensive work, especially in batting down forward passes, approached brilliance. Scott, at right end, snatched several passes from seemingly impossible positions. Combined, these boys make a fighting aggregation that ought to prove slightly more than an appetizer for the Wildcats.

Goodson won a victory over several of his fellow players who were nominated. He is first string quarterback on Buck Miles’ freshman eleven, and his sterling play and heady generalship has been a feature of the Kittens’ play thus far this season. Goodson played last year on the championship Oak Ridge Military Institute team, and he was a star on that aggregation. In the Wofford as well as Oak Ridge games this year, “Shad” has lived up to his prep school reputation. His easy but driving style of carrying the ball, his bullet-like passes, and his general work have proved his worth. With three games of stern quality facing them, Goodson and his freshman teammates have a task ahead of them.

TOBACCO TRUTH: For SATISFACTION’S Sake SMOKE OLD GOLDS (THE HONOR CIGARETTE)

And So His Face Was Utterly Ruined:
By BRIGGS

THAT'S RIGHT, FELLA... TAKE YOUR CHOICE... OLD GOLDS FOR YOU FROM NOW ON - OR SUICIDE

EITHER COUGH LOAD IN A CAR- TON, WHILE HE STILL HAS A FACE... NOT A CAR- COUGH, SEE? TIME I CUT YOUR FACE!! PLEASE, I SHAVE YOU NO MORE!!

The Smoother and Better Cigarette... not a cough in a carload
P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760