BLESSED is the man who, having nothing to say, abstains from giving us wordy evidence of the fact. —George Eliot.

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

THE DAVIDSONIAN

GREENSBORO GAME GIRLS!

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 8, 1928 No. 8

DEBATE SCHEDULE INCLUDES STRONG AND VARIED TEAMS

Davidson Debaters Undertake Most Extensive Campaign of Last Several Years Among Southern Colleges

TRYOUTS IN DECEMBER

Debates With Agnes Scott and Randolph-Macon Are Planned

According to W. L. Dumas, president of the Forensic Council, a debate has recently been arranged with Birmingham-Southern College, of Birmingham, Ala. This debate is to be held here April 18, at which time the opposing team is making a tour of this section. The subject, although not definitely known yet, will be an official question of the Dixie Debating League, and the winner will be decided according to the American plan, that is by the decision of three judges. This is the first debate between Davidson and Birmingham-Southern, and in 1930 Davidson will meet them in a debate there. This is the schedule with the contracts practically closed, of which two are certain—William and Mary at Williamsburg and Washington and Lee at Lexington. Those entirely arranged for are:

University of Alabama, here.
University of Richmond, there.
Emory, here.
Birmingham-Southern, here.

All of these are to be held next spring. An effort was made to debate a team from Oxford University here last fall, but due to the expense, this had to be given up. It is possible that a debate may be arranged with some woman’s college, probably Randolph-Macon or Agnes Scott, and also plans are being discussed for one fourth debate definitely with N. C. University, but as yet all of these are pending. The try-outs for the teams this year will be held on December 4, at which time four and possibly five teams will be chosen. The question for these try-outs will be: Resolved, That the public should retain the ownership of and develop the principal sources of hydro-electric power of the United States. This will probably be one of the most, if not the most, debated questions in the country during the following school year. It is especially interesting in that it bears on the presidential election.

EU AND PHI WILL MEET TUESDAYS

At a recent meeting of the Eu and Phi literary societies, a motion was made that the societies should seriously consider changing the night of the meeting, which has been, for several years, on Thursday night, to another night in the week, which would be more suitable for a larger part of the students. It has been difficult for many of the fraternity men to attend the society meeting on Thursday night due to the fact that many have adopted this night for their weekly fraternity meeting. One of the reasons for this suggested change was to enable this large group of men to attend the weekly society meetings. After a proposal was made the proposition was discussed and committees were appointed from both societies to investigate the matter thoroughly. The committees were composed of W. L. Dumas, J. R. Graham, M. W. Norfleet and S. H. Long, representing the Eumanean Society, and C. H. Dubose, S. W. Dubose, S. R. Coker, representing the Philanthropic Society. These two committees at a joint meeting decided on Tuesday night as most suitable. At their recommendation a motion that Tuesday night be selected was made and passed. Members of the committee have interviewed W. K. Pritchett, president of the Honorary Fraternity Council, who has agreed to arrange the Honorary Fraternity schedule so that there will be no conflicts in the time of their meetings with the time of the literary societies. With one exception, the social fraternities meeting on Tuesday night have agreed to have their regular meetings on Thursday, thus enabling all social fraternity men to attend literary society meetings. Other organizations which have agreed to cooperate with the societies are the band, which has been meeting on Tuesday night, and the Faculty Committee on Lectures. The latter has agreed not to have lectures here on that night. The societies will hold their regular meeting tonight as usual so that the schedule (Continued on page 4)

N. C. C. P. A. LEAVING MYERS PARK LUNCHEON

Public Initiation Entertains Crowd

Scabbard and Blade initiated nine men on last Wednesday, October 31. The public part of the initiation started after the last drill Wednesday afternoon. Numerous students turned out to see this performance. The pledges went through a great many maneuvers of a military nature. The majority of the trees on the campus were put through a rigid inspection and were “stuck” for needing shaves and shoeshines. The trees were also instructed in the manual of arms and company movements. A few of the men then drilled squads of bricks and bottles. A cavalry drill was also held by men mounted on stick horses. The nine pledges later were put through a lock-step drill which led them around the campus and through Chambers building. While marching in lock-step, the men were given such commands as double time, to the rear march, and goose step. Finally, the men stopped an automobile and gave the occupants a lesson in driving, which was illustrated by several of the neophytes who posed as the parts of an automobile. The pledges were taken in the Armory and searched for cigarettes and candy, but this search proved to be fruitless. They then filled up all of the coal boxes in the building by carrying one lump of coal at a time in their hands. The men were finally locked up for several hours. The last part of the public initiation was held on the Freshman field that night. The pledges formed a band and supplied music for the procession. The field was lighted with rockets and colored flares. The first stunt was a concert by the band. Two of the pledges then fed each other spoonfuls of molasses, most of which was poured on their faces. Later, one of the men rendered a trombone solo, which was providentially drowned out by the firing of machine guns and a 37 mm. gun. A race was also held in which the men pushed croquet balls down the field with their noses. The final act of the public initiation was an egg fight.

Alumni Secretary Edits Newspaper For Homecoming

First Issue Will Be Placed in Hands of Nearly Four Thousand Old Grads

“DAVIDSON ALUMNUS” Will Have Four Pages of Three Columns Each

Seeking some new way to interest the alumni, the Alumni Association has at last turned out a new type of bulletin. This is in the form of a three-column newspaper, devoted entirely to news of Davidson alumni and of news concerning the alumni. This paper is of four pages, the first number to make its appearance came out on November 6, making its debut under the name of the “Davidson Alumnus.” The first issue is almost entirely de- (Continued on page 6)

Chapel Program to Observe Armistice

On Monday, November 12, the chapel exercises will be in the form of an Armistice Day program. The ceremony was arranged by Campbell O'Neal, “Y” secretary. It has been the custom for several years to conduct a service in honor of the men who fought so valiantly in 1918. The names of the speakers could not be obtained, but the remainder of the program is as follows:

Devotional.
Keynote address.
Tribute to the Davidson men who died in the World War.
Close with America.

There will be no other services during the day at Davidson and classes will continue as usual. It is understood that there will be a parade and a general celebration at Mooresville, which will last practically all day. The college band will probably take part in the celebration in Mooresville also. This latter is, however, tentative only.

Student House Party

A house party will be given at the Y. M. C. A. during the weekend of November 17, Homecoming Day. This is being done in order that every Davidson man may have the opportunity of inviting a young lady to spend the weekend of Homecoming on the hill. Reservations can be made for a place for them to stay by seeing Craig Fry or Mac King. This is a most fitting time to have girls on the hill and they will all be taken care of properly, so don’t fail to make reservations at once.

STUNT NIGHT WILL FEATURE PLANS OF HOME-COMING DAY

Each Class Will Present a Stunt of Either a Comic or Dramatic Nature

Alan Frew Wins State Legion Oratorical Contest

Davidson Man Wins Democratic Contest

In a recent contest sponsored by the National Democratic Committee, W. K. Pritchett, prominent member of the Senior class, was awarded first prize in the Southeastern States for an essay, “Why Alfred E. Smith Should Be Elected President of the United States.” This paper will be compared with 12 others from other American college men, and the writer of the paper of highest merit will receive as first prize, $1,000. Several weeks ago the National Democratic Committee introduced this contest, dividing the country into 13 sections and appointed a leading newspaper in each division to conduct the preliminary contests. In the Southeastern States, the Atlanta Journal was chosen and an invitation to write papers was sent to all college men in these states. Papers were submitted from Alabama, North Carolina, Georgia, Georgia Tech, South Carolina, Clemson, and most of the leading Southern colleges. Kendrick Pritchett, who had prepared this essay for other purposes, submitted it to the judges, all of whom were members of the faculty of Emory University, of Atlanta. It was in this selection that Pritchett’s essay was awarded highest honor.

N. C. C. P. A. Ends Very Successful Meeting

Delegates Well Entertained by Queens and Davidson Colleges

With the aid of Charlotte printing firms, Davidson and Queens Colleges successfully entertained the 102 delegates from 17 colleges having publications which are members of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, in the generous fifteenth semi-annual convention of that association.

After the horseplay was over, the pledges were taken off for the formal part of the initiation.

Local Organizations Sponsored by Alumni Association to Broadcast from WBT

On Tuesday night, November 13, from 8:00 to 8:30 p.m., there will be broadcast a radio program from Station WBT, at Charlotte, which is sponsored by the Davidson College Alumni Association, and given by Davidson representatives. The arrangements forThe program was made by a committee appointed by the Alumni Council to represent the Association. The committee consists of Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99, and Dr. Oren Moore, '08, both of Charlotte. The program will consist of one five-minute speech, followed by a musical program, rendered by the Glee Club and the two orchestras. Last year a similar program was broadcast just two days before Homecoming Day, with only a two-day notice to the participants and the hearers. This year, however, ample notice has been given, and the Glee Club and orchestra have been working on their programs for several days past. A notice will be sent out to all alumni to notify them of the program.

The program will be held all over the United States, as WBT has recently installed new apparatus with a broadcasting power of five thousand watts.

Davidson On The Air To Wildcats Everywhere

Competitive System To Be Used In Drill

For the past few years at Davidson, a competition has been held at each parade on Wednesday for the platoon having the best line. As the platoons passed by in line, they were judged by the cadet major, cadet adjutant, and personnel adjutant. The platoons which had the first, second, and third best lines were announced at the next parade in the form of a special order. The platoon receiving first place was awarded three points; second, two points; and third, one point. At the end of the year, the platoon commander whose platoon had the greatest number of points received as an award a loving cup. Lieutenant-Colonel Scott has announced that the same plan will be carried out this year, and it is hoped that those taking R.O.T.C. will enter into it heartily so that it may better the appearance of the weekly parades. The band will also be considered as one platoon and will have the same chance for the distinction. Lieutenant-Colonel Scott states also that a plan is being considered whereby the platoons winning may be designated in the next parade. The method has not been definitely decided but the military department (Continued on page 4).

After the arrival of the delegates on Thursday, November 1, the members of the organization were entertained by a reception at Fraternity Court. A complimentary banquet was given at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel, Chas. M. Pratt acting as toastmaster. Dr. D. W. Daniel, head of the English Department and director of Arts and Science of Clemson College, gave an address, entitled, “The Joyous Life.” Following the banquet, the delegates attended a complimentary theater party.

The first business session was called to order Friday morning at 10 o'clock, by Walter S. Spearman, U.N.C., president of the N.C.C.P.A. The delegates were then welcomed with fitting words by J. R. Covington, editor of the “Quips and Cranks.” Lawrence Dumas then introduced Dr. Frazer Hood, chair of Psychology, Davidson College, who spoke to the convention on the importance of psychology in journalism. The publications represented were called on for a report by Miss Alice Dowd, Meredith College, secretary of the organization. Committees on resolutions, Press Association library, choice of next meeting place, and recommendations, were then appointed.

Murrill Speaks

The convention adjourned at Charlotte, where a luncheon was given at the Myers Park Club. Following the luncheon, Hugh Murrill, vice-president of the Queen City Printing Company, addressed the convention at Queens College. At 4:00 p.m., a tea was given by the Queens girls in the reception building. The delegates then attended a complimentary theater party, which was followed by a dinner given at the Hotel Charlotte, at 7:30. After the dinner, a number of the delegates were conducted through the Observer's printing house.

Business Session

The second business session convened Saturday morning in Shearer Hall. (Continued on page 6).

JAZZ BAND TO PERFORM

Glee Club Will Give a Concert at This Time

Stunt night will again be the source of entertainment for the many visitors on the campus the night of November 17. Many features are being prepared for the program, such as solos, sax and vocal, quartet, string duo, and two appearances of the Glee Club. Each class is preparing a stunt of some sort to be given with the program and their part will be dramatic or comic. The exact order of the program has not been arranged, but the concert orchestra will appear first with a number of selections. The jazz orchestra will present a variety of entertainment. They plan to appear for about 20 minutes with jazz and comedy skit interspersed during this time. They have many of the newest hits worked up to perfection and will present a group of older ones. The Glee Club is working hard at present for their appearance at Queens but will begin their work for Homecoming immediately after this first concert. The club will render the following pieces: “Sylvia,” by Speaks; “Give a Man a Horse He Can Ride,” by O'Hara; “Brown Bird Singing,” by Wood; and “Annie Laurie,” by Geibel. They will be on the stage only twice, singing two different songs at each appearance. Featured in the program will be a saxophone solo, by A. J. Thompson, entitled “Valse Martlyn,” by Wiedoeft. This will be something new for Davidson. Mr. Thompson has played the sax in the orchestra for the past two years and also performs on the clarinet. Other features on the program will be a string duo or trio. The quartet will render a few numbers and there will be two vocal solos. The jazz orchestra has not decided as yet whether they will furnish further entertainment after the regular program in Shearer Hall. The stunt night program will begin about 7:30 and last approximately an hour and a half. If time allows after the program, the orchestra will entertain.

Y.M.C.A. VESPERS HELD BY RAYNAL

“By their fruits ye shall know them” was the theme of Dr. C. E. Raynal, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville, in an address delivered at “Y” vespers Sunday evening. In the beginning of his talk, Dr. Raynal declared that there were several ways of interpreting “the fruits” of teachers and their teachings, such as the results of such teachings crystallized in the form of public opinion on current questions, or the type of personal character produced by particular teachings. There is still a third test of a doctrine, however, and that is the question as to what the teacher's philosophy really means to himself in his own life.

It was on this last interpretation of the text that the speaker based his message. First, he illustrated the importance of a vital belief through its effects produced in the attitudes of the prophets and Paul toward the customs of their times. Paul, confident that he had the message of truth in his heart, was willing to face the persecutions of the Roman Empire that he might give that truth to men. Our beliefs may never be tested by the stern situations confronting the great apostle; yet, we should seek to discover and emulate the qualities composing his wonderful conception of life. In the first place, Paul's faith was characterized by its intelligence and conviction rather than by any weak, emotional basis, important as that element may be. What our church of today needs is a clearly stated Gospel that will be applicable to the problems of the twentieth century. This will result in “a man-sized faith” for the leaders of the future as the old beliefs have served for those in the past. Then, a real faith must possess vigor and power; it must control the wills of men to such an extent that their lives will be turned from a course of pettiness to one of ennobling service to Jesus Christ. This does not mean an enslaving of the will but a greater freedom through the service of the Master in showing men the (Continued on page 4).