4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 19, 1928

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
M. M. GRAY, JR. Business Manager
A. N. BROWN Managing Editor
W. R. RULGIN Managing Editor
J. B. MORIARTY Managing Editor
C. R. LAKE Athletic Editor
B. A. WEDDINGTON Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE Associate Editor
R. C. WILSON Associate Editor
G. C. WADSWORTH Alumni Editor
R. C. DYER Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY Assistant Business Manager
S. J. HARRISON Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL Assistant Business Manager
P. H. GRIFFIN Subscription Manager
B. G. WILKINSON Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE Solicitor
T. E. SMITH Solicitor

Reporters’ Club
W. H. BAILEY President
L. ELY Vice-President
R. GRAHAM Secretary-Treasurer
P. ANDERSON
R. W. McDERMOTT
W. H. HITT
W. B. NIVEN
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D. MILLER
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. PRATT
R. F. JARRATT
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. GILLESPIE
W. R. AVERETT
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

THE PAN-AMERICAN FARCE

That a group of intelligent men from various New World countries should meet together in an attempt to establish better
relations among their respective nations, and that these men should eliminate from their discussion the most vital point of disagreement
strikes some people as rather ludicrous. But such is the case of the Pan-American Congress meeting at Havana this week.

Evidently, the Congress must be considered by some to be an extremely important convention, as the head of the United
States made a special trip to attend it. Yet the question of armed forces of the United States carrying on
active warfare in other countries will not be touched upon. The delegates from the countries further south do not seem
quite as pleased with the program as they should be. Press reports from various countries represented there indicate that these
nations do not quite understand why such an important question should be left untouched, and there are many who agree
with them.

At present, the territory of three Pan-American countries is occupied by American forces, the government being temporarily administered by these
troops. The three countries occupied are Haiti, San Domingo, and Nicaragua. Due to the efforts of the Associated Press and
the majors in the Marines, the Nicaragua situation has been brought before the eye of the American public more vividly
than the other two. From some points of view, it should be given more publicity, but of a different nature
from that which it has been receiving.

It is at once evident that such actions as the United States has been guilty of within the last few
weeks should be frankly and thoroughly discussed by those who are far more interested than we. This country of ours
has all of the legal excuses and reasons that can be collected to explain every detail, but there is still
a doubt as to whether any ethical excuses will be acceptable. It is true that the United States has been
invited by leaders of both parties in Nicaragua to attempt to find a solution for their problem, but the question
arises as to whether our country is justified in the least in meddling with the affairs of any other country.

There will be many to raise and shout that we must protect our interests. But just what are these interests
and why should they involve one hundred and eighteen million people in their petty squabbles? If American business men have
found it impossible to carry on their respective trades due to the instability of government in Nicaragua, they should withdraw
immediately. They investigated the situation rather thoroughly before they placed any of their money in enterprises in that country. They
must have realized that they were taking a chance on the stability of government there. To most people, it seems
that they should accept their defeat smilingly. But no, they must squall for their Uncle Sam.

This is the problem, however, that is worrying a number of the countries to be represented at the Congress. Is
everyone to infer from the actions of our government during the last week that they will invade any country where
there are American business interests in an effort to make secure their position there? And this is the question which
will be evaded at this session. The officials have forgotten, it seems, that the world as a whole, not only
the American world, is observing their actions and attitude in this matter. They will question whether our country is setting
a precedent in this situation, and ask must they naturally expect American warships and troops in any country where the
government does not quite suit the rather peculiar ideas of our Uncle Sam.

It has also been hinted that the sending of troops to Nicaragua is not altogether an altruistic motive on our
part. This was revealed when it was insinuated that America is planning a new canal through Nicaragua. Sandino and his
party being unfavorable to it, therefore the United States upholds the opposite party. These insinuations, along with the fact that
the protection of business interests seems to be the primary motive for the interference, rather point out that this nation
is not quite as noble as we think it to be.

At the great student convention held in Detroit during the holidays, various foreign students were complaining that American interests in
their respective countries were carrying out the wealth which rightfully belonged to the natives of that country. This was one
of the main criticisms of the United States as a whole. And now that the government has decided that American
interests must be protected by American troops, it seems obvious that the United States is headed directly for trouble in
many portions of the world.

All of the above argument is strictly from the practical, business side of the situation, not touching on the moral
problem as to whether the United States is justified in its interference. Senator Burton K. Wheeler, in an interview appearing
in the New York Times, says, “My opposition is based first upon what I have always conceived to be one
of the fundamental principles of this country, namely, that we have no right to interfere in the internal affairs of
another country.” And yet already numerous skirmishes have been engaged in by the Marines occupying the territory and the bandits.
Last Sunday, it was reported in the papers throughout the country that a number of the bandits had been killed
in an airplane attack.

And no longer are there merely two elements in the struggle, if we are supposed to believe press reports and
a commanding officer of a Marine detachment. An officer in charge of one of the groups attacking Sandino declared that
his enemies had been furnished with munitions and guns from helpful countries. If this is true, the government should realize
the position they have taken, how the world is considering it, and withdraw from the scene of action immediately. If
it is not true, the officer should be discharged for making such a libelous statement and arousing such feeling throughout
the country.

With the above in mind, it is readily discernible that such a situation should be discussed at length at such
a meeting as is being held in Havana. Our government would then realize probably the way in which the various
other countries in this part of the world are interpreting our actions in this matter. There should be much frank
discussion. If the United States intends to protect American interests throughout the world with American troops, these countries should be
told that and prepare for immediate war. If, however, the United States has some other explanation for its actions, it
would be well to bring it out immediately.

Much good could be accomplished, many doubts swept away, much misunderstanding erased, if a sane discussion of this matter were
held with the various delegates present; yet they “choose” to ignore it all. Whether this is a very subtle move,
and tends to accomplish much good, the future will reveal. All indications point at present, however, to a colossal mistake.

Open Forum

The following communication from Coach Younger has been received in answer to the Open Forum article which appeared in this
column last week with reference to the basketball schedule or season:

“If Mr. ‘Just Why’ will be so kind as to come to my office, I will consider it a great

A BIT OF THIS and THAT
By HARLLEE BRANCH, JR.

FILIAL INGRATITUDE

Blow, blow, thou Winter Wind,
Thou art not so unkind
As man’s Ingratitude;
Thy tooth is not so keen,
Because thou art not seen,
Although thy breath be rude.
—Shakespeare.

I had somehow come to imagine that the suffering of Lear at the hands of his ungrateful daughters had been
exaggerated, that his mistreatment had been amplified to increase the poignance of the tragedy.Bennett, now come a great tragedienne of
the silver screen, did a vivid portrayal of the scenario, “The Fourth Commandment,” a few months ago, and her misery
might have torn at my heart-threads had I not been one of those unknowing individuals who imagine that such a
thing as filial ingratitude of so extreme a nature is always fiction. I know now my mistake. It took an
incident in nearby High Point to disillusion me. A frail, little wisp of a woman, grown weary of life, was
picked up by High Point Welfare workers. She was aged and sick—and, though she smiled with the courage of a
soldier, her eyes were sad and her heart heavy. She was quickly removed to a charity hospital, but life lasted
only a few days. There was nothing unusual about the case up to that point, except that the little woman,
to the very hour of her death, kept trying to smile for the nurses and doctors who attended her. Death
brought on an inquiry. There was an effort to locate her kin, but to no avail. Her body went to
the public morgue, and wrapped in cheap muslin, she was placed in a pinewood box and laid to rest, without
a marker to show where she lay. A busy public thought nothing of the incident. In an age of commercialism,
we have grown calloused—and death, as long as it stays away from our own hearthstones, is welcome to take its
toll unnoticed. But, down in Greenville, S. C., an old acquaintance read of the funeral, and made a hurried trip
to High Point to ascertain the true identity of the dead. Then came a story of ingratitude, a story of
thanklessness that left an awakened public wiping tears from its eyes. The little lady, now dead, had in her brighter
days lavished tenderness on her children, and had found time to be a fairy godmother to the whole community in
which she lived. Under her watchfulness, a son had grown to manhood, and had succeeded. He had won the admiration
of business associates and had climbed rapidly the ladder that leads to wealth and prestige. A chauffeur in livery drove
him about in a high-priced automobile. For a year, perhaps, he had cared for his infirm mother, but he grew
tired of her and wanted someone else to take up the “burden.” Sensing his impatience, the mother, still proud, packed
her meager clothing and with a few dollars in a tattered purse made her way to High Point, the home
of a daughter and a grandson. At High Point, the daughter failed to meet her at the train, and ordered
the grandson to refuse her entrance to the home. Days of hunger, of fatigue, rolled by—until the little godmother was
found by welfare workers, walking the streets as if in a stupor. At the hospital, she tried to smile, but
her smiles were feeble and pitiful. “Are some of my people coming up to see me?” she kept asking. Not
a soul came. “They’re so good to me here,” she sobbed, as she nodded her head toward the strangers at
the hospital who were giving her comfort and kindness in her last hours. I remember having read an old Italian
quotation, I do not know its author, but as I write it comes back to me. “The animal with long
ears, having drunk, gives a kick to the bucket.” And somehow, in the midst of all that has been written
about the forsaken little lady, I am convinced that the Italian might have written that line precisely to describe this
son and daughter, now oblivious to the sacrifice and the love that an adoring mother had showered on them during
childhood. “Cases of this sort,” says the High Point Enterprise, “have been told in fiction, but here is one that
a newspaper tells in life, and calls names and faces throughout.” It may be a fine public service that the
paper has done. Perhaps it will at least deter others who might hide behind a screen of anonymity and perform
acts just as cruel toward those that helped them when they were helpless, but cannot claim love and care in
return. “How sharper than a serpent’s tooth it is To have a thankless child.” —Shakespeare. The propeller of a great
ship broke through its side and the ship sank off the coast of South America. While five ships stood by,
three hundred persons lost their lives. Disaster re-occurs as regularly as the sun rises and sets but no one knows
the time nor the place. Man can control much but not his destinies.

It is a privilege to discuss with him at length any information that I may be able to give concerning
the basketball schedule.” W. L. YOUNGER, Director of Athletics.

Ollapodrida A man and a woman were put to death in the electric chair at Sing Sing Prison. The reason:
they had murdered the husband of the woman. The following morning the greater part of the American population read a
detailed account of the tragedy avidly. New York was furnished with the choicest bit of all. Emblazoned upon the front
sheet of the Hearst Mirror was a picture of the unfortunate woman strapped to the death-dealing chair. An enterprising reporter
had tied a camera to his leg and pressed the bulb from his pocket. The more thoughtful wonder that the
common herd can gloat over such nauseating descriptions but the majority of these themselves consumed every morsel of the journalistic
banquet. There is pathos in this public weakness. Together with the Snyder-Grey execution came other headline stories of crime. Of
ten leading articles appearing in the Charlotte Observer that morning, seven dealt with the misdeeds of men. The Jackson Day
dinner and the Democratic Convention alone were able to compete. Journalists defend the publication of such details on the ground
that they furnish an object lesson to the American public and thus lessen crime. The psychologists would no doubt debate
the question. Certainly, a description of crime is suggestive to others to perform similar deeds. The Hickman case offers a
good example. Since that famous kidnapping was performed, three similar plans have been attempted. An uneducated Italian in Chicago asked
for one hundred thousand dollars ransom on threat of kidnapping his employer’s daughter. Uninstructed in crime, he signed his own
name and wondered that the police could pick him from three million other souls. The basic reason for criminal news
is that the public demands the details and journalists have not yet come to the place where they will suffer
pecuniary loss to further humanity. The State of Virginia has taken a step toward the education of the American public
in this direction. Executions are viewed only by the proper authorities and only a simple statement that the law has
been carried out is issued to the press. As a result, we find that the most notorious criminals are relegated
to short notices at the foot of the front page. Virginians, after a four-year silence, still seem to be living
in health and happiness. The most recent of Will Durant’s publications “Transition” deals with that writer’s thoughts, thinly veiled, since
childhood. It has not met with the overwhelming favor accorded “The Story of Philosophy,” but it has run through four
editions and to this writer’s untrained eye is more cleverly written. In it, Durant finds that his life has coincided
with a period of changing thought from an old to a more modern version. Some parts are rather intimate, others
gruesome, but the whole makes a well-rounded picture. In it, you will find the gist of present-day thought well defined.
Good Democrats from all sections of the country assembled in Washington last week for the Jackson Day dinner. To shorten
the exercises, some speeches were served before the cocktails. The first orator swung into action at eight o’clock and the
last resumed his seat seven hours later. Half of the twelve hundred diners had departed before this juncture was reached.
Every possible Democratic presidential aspirant was present save one, Governor Alfred Smith, of New York, and in his comparative obscurity,
he outshone all others. A letter alone presented his cause to the assembled party leaders and after the final speech
had been made there was little doubt that Smith would be the Democratic choice barring upsets. Protestants and drys will
oppose him in some measure as will the Exalted Angora of the Order of Billy Goats. Democratic leaders believe that
their voices will be feeble. Texas, a member of the Solid South, has shown a Republican tendency recently, and to
impede the movement the Democrats will take their party convention to Houston next June. The theory is that the state
will be enthused with a Democratic spirit. Other cities with better financial backing were forced to wait four more years
while the South is being restored to its state of solidity. If Smith is nominated, the party strength will receive
a jolt at the hands of some Southern states. The South does not approve of wets and Catholics in large
measure. Some Democrats will vote for the Republican choice. Others will not vote at all. A senate committee is spending
a lot of valuable time trying to place the blame for the S-4 disaster. It might better earn its salary
in preparing for similar disasters in the future. Hardly a year passes in which some United States submarine does not
sink to rise no more together with its crew. No good shipping company would long allow such a condition to
exist among its vessels but the government pays no heed to repeated disasters. Wait until some government official’s son is
lost in such a catastrophe and then watch for results.

W. L. L.
