October 4, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Dr. Brown to Talk Friday at Banquet of Ministerial Band
Short Talks by Student Members to Feature Feed Also

The annual feed of the Ministerial Band will be held tomorrow night at 9:30, in the basement of the church. A snappy program has been planned to give a good time to all. Dr. C. K. Brown is scheduled for a pithy talk. There will also be a few short talks by the student members. Every man who is a ministerial student, regardless of whether or not he has attended the regular meetings of the band, has been invited by card to be present. Cards were supposed to have been handed to F. D. Miller at 109 West before last Tuesday night with the information as to whether or not he would be present. If anyone finds at a late hour that he might be able to go, a plate may be arranged by seeing F. D. Miller today.

At the meeting of the band Sunday afternoon, Professor Beaty spoke to the band, giving the members practical suggestions of preparation. Himself a preacher, he was qualified for aiding the potential preacher. As a continuation of the advice given by Dr. Foreman last week, on the importance of reading, Professor Beaty showed the importance of writing and composition. Dr. C. R. Harding will speak to the Ministerial Band Sunday afternoon at 2:30. A special subject will be treated.

Response to Honors Course is Meager

From the number which are taking the Honor Courses, made available by the board of trustees last year, the response of the students for the year is meager. Only four men, according to the available report, are engaged in this college work, done on the graduate plan. H. S. Davidson is taking an Honors Course in Chemistry; R. B. Hayes, of the senior class, is taking one in Physics; two seniors, G. A. Fry and Reid Graham, are taking Honors Courses in Philosophy. The Honors Courses are open to all members of the two upper classes who have met certain requirements in their scholastic work during their first two years. The student works alone, under the weekly direction of the head of his department, with an examination at the end of the term.

PRELIMINARIES FOR STATE (Continued from page 1)

P. W. Glidewell, Ragin, and Mathews, have expressed their desire to go out. There will be but one preliminary, at which time a man will be chosen to represent Davidson. Lawrence Dumas asks that any man desiring to enter the contest please see him at once.

DEBATING TEAM (Continued from page 1)

University of the South, and Emory University. Tryouts for the debating team will be held on December 4, 5, and 6, and the teams will be picked at this time. The question for the tryouts has not been decided upon. The fresh team will have two debates this year; following an old custom, one will probably be the Carolina freshmen. There are only five varsity debaters in school: W. L. Dumas, W. K. Pritchett, R. M. Christian, C. R. Pritchett, and W. B. McGuire, Jr. W. K. Pritchett will not be able to debate this year, leaving four varsity debaters in all.

LEADERS URGE SYNOD (Continued from page 1)

Representing Davidson were Dr. Martin, chairman of the meeting; Dr. Lingle, Dr. Moffett, Dr. Richards, and Rev. Mr. Hunter.

CLEMSON DEFEAT (Continued from page 1)

Pressley: McConnell Center Swofford Smith Right Guard Hall Baker (c) Right Tackle Mouledous David Right End Pitts McCall Quarterback G. McMillan Flinn Left Halfback Padgett Kell Right Halfback McCarley Black Fullback

Scoring touchdown (Clemson), Asbill, (sub for Woodruff), forward pass. Substitutions: Clemson, Jones for Mouledous; Salley for Padgett; Gassaway for Hall; Gunnells for Davis; R. McMillan for C. McMillan; Asbill for Woodruff; Solomon for Magill; Woodruff for Asbill; C. McMillan for R. McMillan; Gassaway for Hall; Mouledous for Woodruff. Davidson: B. McMillan for McCall; Goodykoontz for B. McMillan; Parker for Smith; DeCamp for Harper; Johnson for David; Brohard for Kell; Mason for McConnell; Covington for Archie; Rawson for Baker; Fraley for Kell. Officials: Hartsell (N. C. State), referee; Major (Auburn) umpire; Boatwright (Virginia) headlinesman; Rawson (Georgia), field judge.

FACULTY MEMBERS HAVE NEW HOMES

During the summer several of the faculty members moved to new homes. It is rather confusing to the students to know just where to visit them, and accordingly a list is given here with which to locate them. Dr. Guy R. Vowles has moved to Sloan Street, known otherwise as "Faculty Heights," the street on which the old Phi Gam house is located. Dr. Vowles is located in the house between Fleagle and Professor Porter. Professor Dr. Hood has moved to his new home a mile out on the Concord road. Dr. Brown rooms at Dr. Hood's. Professor Henderson has moved to Dr. Hood's former home on North Main, beyond Barnes’ boarding house. Professor Beaty lives in Henderson's former home on Concord Street. Professor Shewmake has moved to "Faculty Heights," opposite Professor Porter's. A complete directory of the faculty, including their residence, office, phone, and so forth, will be published at a later date.

WALKER, QUARTER

Zack Walker, flashy little backfield man of the Elon Christians, will be seen in action here Saturday.

Physical Exams to be Required of all Students in Future
Only Freshmen Have Hitherto Stood Physical Examinations

One of the most noticeable factors in the rapid growth of Davidson College in recent years has been the increasing desire of the administration to turn out finished men from a physical standpoint. As a result of this condition Dr. McConnell, the college physician, and Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, the physical director, are going to examine every student this year and every succeeding year. Great precaution has always been exercised with regard to the health of the students and this new regulation is expected to aid to a great extent in fighting ill-health on the campus. No definite time has been set for the examinations, but they will probably be similar to the ones given to the freshmen in the past.

ELON CAPTAIN

Captain Hardy, veteran center, who will lead the Christians against Monk's boys Saturday.

No Progress There

Wife—“Fancy, Robert, in a few years we shall be able to fly to London in half an hour.”
Husband—"But you will still need two hours toget ready.” — Weekly Scotchman.

PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

Every man wants his stationery to be distinctive, and we are prepared to give you a most attractive job at a reasonable price. Samples of printed stationery and of printed and engraved personal cards are on display in 20 Rumple. Best rates on job work will be quoted to campus organizations for any kind of printing.

AUBREY BROWN, Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

30 Years experience in the Tailoring Business

A. GERSKOV THE COLLEGE MAN’S TAILOR Altering and Repairing Our Specialty

We can make your old suit over so it will be up to date in style. Bring us your altering and repairing.

William Metts With The Other Colleges

Washington, Oct. 3—(IP)—The number of institutions for the higher education of the negro race in the United States more than doubled, and enrollments increased more than six-fold during the past 10 years, according to the report recently issued by the Bureau of Education of the Interior Department. In 1917, according to the report, there were 31 negro institutions offering college work, while in 1927, of the 79 institutions included in the survey, there were 77 engaged in college work. The enrollments in the 31 institutions 10 years ago amounted to 2,132 negro students, as compared with 13,680 attending institutions surveyed in 1917—an increase of 550 per cent. The annual income of the negro universities and colleges in the United States also has gained at a rapid rate. In 1917 it totaled $2,283,000, while in 1927 the annual income was $8,560,000, or an increase of 275 per cent.

Middlebury, Vt., Oct. 3—(IP)—Speaking at the Bread Loaf Conference held here recently, Joseph Auslander, poet and critic, declared that the gangster and the racketeer have enriched the English language. “It may be painful to Bill Thompson,” he said, “that Chicago is thus adding to the King’s English, but it is a fact that they are doing so. ‘Mall, sticking them up, going after the ice, taking a man for a ride, frisking someone, all are picturesque terms making a new and vivid language which it is the province of the poet to employ. They show us that words are full-blooded, live and kicking things, and that their meanings migrate from one significance to another. They have no inhibitions, and, like women, rejoice in their new freedom. It is the business of the poet to make them live in their proper light. Prohibition has also added new words to our language. What could be a more glorious expression than bootlegger?”

New York, Oct. 3—(IP)—The Deutsches Haus, abolished at Columbia University when the United States entered the World War, is to be re-established at the university, according to plans for the development of a group of centers of Old World culture. The Deutsches Haus will be under the administration of the German department of the university, and will occupy its own quarters at 117th street and Amsterdam avenue.

Chicago, Oct. 3—(IP)—If you chew your food until your jaws are weary, your weight is likely to fall off, but your chess game is likely to improve, according to Dr. Harold G. Hock, instructor in physiology at the University of Chicago, who has just reported the results of a five-year experiment on himself. Clarity of reasoning was the only benefit of arduous long-distance jaw exercises, said Dr. Hock. Under experiments of thorough mastication his weight decreased 30 pounds.

Leyden, Holland, Oct. 3—(IP)—Princess or no princess, when Juliana, heiress to the throne of the Netherlands, decides to marry, she will be pilloried upon the announcement of her betrothal. That is, her name and that of her fiancé will be hoisted off a post, nicknamed the “Pillar of Dishonor,” in the Women Students Club of Leyden University. Princess Juliana is a student at the university, and incidentally enjoys much more freedom here than she does at the royal castle at The Hague, where a rigid court atmosphere exists. When informed that she could matriculate at Leyden, the princess, then 19 years of age, exclaimed, “Fine, then I can wear high heels.” At Leyden everything possible is done to permit her to live a carefree life. To be sure, a secret service man shadows her unobtrusively. When the Crown Princess entered Leyden a year ago, she stated emphatically that she wished to be treated just like any other student. Hence, when she joined the Women Students Club, she did what it is customary to do—called on the members of the executive committee at their various boarding houses. “My daughter offered to reverse the process and call on the princess,” the mother of one of them said, “but she would not have it. She came as simply and modestly and, I may add, as bashfully as any new student.”

Frankfort-on-the-Main, Oct. 3—(IP)—An old man, known to his neighbors simply as “Uncle Mezzafanti,” is believed to hold a world’s record by knowing and understanding more than 200 languages. The attainment never before has been approached, it is believed.

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

THE S & W Cafeterias are catering to you

Electricity opens a new era of ocean travel

Miraculously quiet and vibrationless, luxurious and swift, the new electrically operated S. S. California, largest American-built passenger ship, has opened a new era in ocean travel. Electricity drives the California so efficiently that the fuel bill for the initial coast-to-coast trip was even less than the Canal tolls. Electricity mans the winches, bakes the bread, makes the ice, polishes the silver. And electricity cools the cabins and provides passengers with the comforts found in the finest hotels. Complete electrification makes the California an engineering marvel and a commercial success; it is booked far in advance, a sister ship has just been launched, and another is under construction. On sea or land, in every walk of life, electricity is in the van of progress. Undreamed of yesterday, the electric ship is a symbol of the electrical industry’s part in modern civilization and a prophecy of even greater accomplishment.

This monogram is found on the great motors that drive the California, and on a multitude of electric appliances which contribute to the comfort of her passengers. It is an emblem of skilled engineering and high manufacturing quality.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.