THEDAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 10, 1928

P. B. Fry is Elected to Presidency of Gleemen Succeeding J. S. Foster

R. S. Abernethy Elected to Position of Business Manager for Coming Year by Club

FINAL CONCERT FRIDAY

Albright and Thompson Elected to Vice-Presidencies

Paul Fry was elected president of the Glee Club for the coming year last Tuesday night. The concert for that night was postponed and the election of officers for the coming year held instead. The other officers as elected were C. J. Albright and A. J. Thompson, vice-presidents, and A. S. Abernethy, business manager. The original plan of the club was to hold a final concert that night in Shearer Hall, but due to the fact that there was no heat in the building that night, it was called off until Friday night. The concert Friday night will be the last appearance of the Glee Club this year. The purpose of the concert is primarily to give the students and townspeople a chance to hear the entire program of the club, being as it has only presented parts of its program here at different times.

Fry has been active in musical lines from the moment he entered Davidson. He has been on the Glee Club for two years and last year a member of the Sunnyland Serenaders. He is a member of the Ministerial Band and comes from Blacksburg, S. C., entering with the present Junior class. Albright is also a member of the Sunnyland Serenaders, playing the banjo, and is the director of the Symphony Orchestra. He comes from Richmond, Va.

(Continued on page 8).

Norris Trophy Election to be Completed Friday

Currie, Grey, and Harrison Left in Trophy Race

The winner of the Norris Athletic Trophy will be announced after the final vote tomorrow morning. The results of the vote taken in chapel showed that the last ballot will be composed of the names of John Currie, Dick Grey, and Charlie Harrison. The Norris Athletic Trophy has been given at Davidson for the past five years by the Norris Candy Company of Atlanta. This company has sponsored for a number of years the athletic field work and scholastic average for the individual athlete. According to the rules of the contest as drawn up by this company and the athletic council here, the winner will be on an average standing in his studies and also outstanding in athletics. In 1924, Flake Laird won the Norris trophy. The following year the trophy was not awarded but was won by Harry Vance in 1926. Ernest Bohannon carried off the athletic honors last year. The trophy is identical to those in previous years. It is in the form of a large silver loving cup standing about 18 inches high. For the past few days, it appeared on exhibition in the window of the White Drug Company. The cup, according to rules, will be awarded as a part of the commencement program. Friday morning during the chapel period the final vote of the contest will be taken. The rules require that a group of six shall be nominated by the Norris Trophy Committee and at the first vote the three lowest contestants shall be dropped; while at the final vote the winner shall be chosen from the remaining three.

(Continued on page 8)

Neophytes Chosen For Beavers Club

Ten men were formally initiated into the Beavers Club Wednesday night. These men were Dean Rusk, S. S. Wiley, Archie McLean, Harry Moffett, Bob King, Dan Lafar, Charles Sisson, Pete Glidewell, R. G. Wilson, and W. A. Armfield. These men were elected to the society Monday night, May 7, at the meeting of the Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary fraternity. They were pledged to the club Tuesday morning after chapel. The formal initiation was held in Eu Hall, scene of many campus activities in the past. Each year ten men are selected from the rising Sophomore class to form this club. The Beaver Club is an honorary Sophomore society, local in nature. The first or charter members came from the present Senior class, thus making this year’s selections the fourth group to be taken into the society. The purpose of the Beaver Club is to have a group of men whose duty is to be of service to the good-will of the college in any way possible. The express duties of the club are to welcome all visiting teams and to pay especial attention to them, to render all possible services at conventions, football games, athletic contests of other natures, and at all public functions of the college.

Rusk is from Atlanta, Ga., Wiley from Salisbury, McLean from Lumberton, N. C., Moffett from Davidson, King from Nashville, Tenn., Lafar from Gastonia, Sisson from Winona, Miss., Glidewell from Reidsville, N. C., Wilson from Marion, N. C., and Armfield is from Asheboro, N. C. They represent four different fraternities and ten different cities. The retiring Beavers are S. N. Brown, E. R. White, Bob Erckman, A. N. Oberstadt, A. T. Edleman, Alan Frew, Jr., W. R. Hill, A. R. Mobley, and Z. V. Long.

Wearers of the “D” Elect New Cabinet

Election of officers for the coming year was made recently by the “D” Club. The men who were elected to succeed the old cabinet are Nat Hunt, president; W. H. Flythe, vice-president, and J. L. Ely, secretary and treasurer. The retiring body of officers is made up of J. W. Melton, president; W. R. Grey, vice-president, and W. O. Nesbit, secretary and treasurer.

The “D” Club was organized for the benefit of Davidson athletes, and one of the conditions of eligibility is the winning of a letter in some sport. At present the membership of the club is around 43; of this number nearly 20 men will leave school this year. However, the roll of the organization will be augmented by the addition of about 12 or 14 new members, who will be taken in at the final initiation of the year on Friday night, May 11th. These new members will be chosen from the men who have won letters this year in basketball, wrestling, baseball, and track. In retiring, the past president of the club, in behalf of his cabinet, has asked that their appreciation of the co-operation of the students be noted.

(Continued on page 8)

BULLETIN

News was received here yesterday morning by E. P. Moye, president of Gamma Nu Tau, local classical organization, that membership in Eta Sigma Phi, national classical fraternity, had been granted by the Executive Council and the National Convention in session at Iowa City. The local chapter will be Alpha Nu and the date of installation will be announced later.

STUDENTS HEAR SPEECH BY PROMISING RUSSIAN

Baron Heyking Addressed Students Friday Night on “The Russian Riddle”

LARGE GROUP ATTENDS

Heyking International Authority on Diplomacy and Law

A large group of Davidson students and townspeople assembled in Shearer Hall last Friday night to hear Baron Alphonse Heyking, distinguished Russian nobleman, whose subject was “The Russian Riddle.” Baron Heyking was educated at the University of Dorpat, now in Estonia, but at that time a part of the university system of the imperial Russian government. After taking his degree there, he lectured at Dorpat for several years on diplomacy and law. He left this post to take over the chair as lecturer on Diplomatic and Consular Service and International Law at the University of Geneva, where he distinguished himself as a student of international diplomatic and economic conditions. The Russian government acknowledged his ability by appointing him Consul General in London and later in British India. He also served as Minister of Foreign Affairs in Petrograd from 1901 to 1905, and as State Counsellor in 1908. In recent years, Baron Heyking has been devoting his time to the care of the racial minorities in Latvia and Estonia. Sent by the Carnegie Peace Foundation, Baron Heyking spoke on the problem of the conditions existing at present in Russia. He briefly traced the history of Russia, showing how the present state of affairs has come about. Political, economic, and religious decay has plunged Russia into a pitiable condition, with illiteracy dominant, the leaders...are Bolshevik and are ruling with greedy hands, and the common people, 92 per cent of the Russian population, have no chance to express themselves in the government. After picturing in a vivid manner the status of Russian development and civilization, Baron Heyking offered no remedy for the unfortunate conditions. He stated that in recent years "The Russian Riddle" was the unanswerable riddle of the world today. He did state, however, in a private interview, that the American government should never lend money to Russia under any conditions, because the Bolshevik government would use it to spread Bolshevik propaganda in America and other foreign countries.

N. C. Wins State Track Meet Held at Memorial Stadium in Greensboro
Davidson Places Third With Total Score of Twenty-Seven Points

DUKE SECOND
Currie Ties With Two for High Score

University of North Carolina track team proved to be too great an obstacle for the other contesting teams to overcome, and so won the state track meet held at the Memorial Stadium in Greensboro last Saturday with a total of 59.4 points. Duke came second with 40.7, and Davidson was third with 27 points. Three state records were shattered, and new ones hung up as a result of the competition Saturday. Erwin, of Duke, broke the record in the quarter mile run with a time of 50.4 seconds. Elliott, of Carolina, broke his own record in the mile by running it in four minutes, 23 and 2-5 seconds. Evans, of Carolina, won the half mile in 1 minute and 55 2-5 seconds, defeating Woodard, of Duke, by only a few feet.

Major Clark Here To Present Awards

The annual presentation of R. O. T. C. awards to the members of the local battalion was made yesterday, May 10th, at the morning drill period, by Maj. Walter Clark. The final parade for R. O. T. C. graduates took place at the afternoon drill period. This parade marked the last that Captain Daugherty, professor of military science and tactics, will witness as commandant of the military department at Davidson. At the morning period Major Clark, after an impressive speech to the men of the battalion, read the following general order, and delivered the awards accordingly:

Cadet Captain C. C. Trabue, winner of the cup given by the Davidson-Cornelius Post No. 86, of the American Legion, for best cadet captain.
Cadet 2nd Lieut. R. A. Glenn, commanding the 2nd Platoon of Company “B”, winner of the cup given by the Davidson Book and Stationery Company, for the platoon commander.
Cadet 1st Lieutenants J. M. Gudger and C. W. Taylor, 2nd Lieutenant S. W. Vance, Corporal E. D. Lennon, and Private R. D. Russell, awarded monogram cross rifles, given by the Henderson Jewelry Company, for members of the 1928 rifle team.
Cadet 2nd Lieutenant S. W. Vance, winner of the Captain Reid Morrison medal, given for the best rifle shot in the battalion.
Cadet Corporal T. R. Nunan, winner of the Crayton Motor Company medal, given to the corporal of the best drilled squad in the battalion.
Cadet Privates 1st Class C. M. Pratt, C. R. Pritchett and Cadet Privates A. W. McLean, H. S. Munroe, J. S. Neal, G. W. Pay, and F. Pilcher, winners of bar medals given by the Stowe Brothers Theater for members of the best drilled squad in the battalion.
Cadet Private S. S. Wiley, winner of the White Drug Company medal given for the best caliber 30 rifle shot in the Freshman class.
Cadet Private Harry Mixson, winner of the M. H. Goodrum Company medal for the best caliber 22 gallery rifle shot in the Freshman class.

Faithful Servant Works 50 Years

With the death of Baxter Williamson last week, faithful old darkey janitor of the college for 40 years and resident of the vicinity for almost twice that long, Davidsonians witnessed the passing of the title of the oldest servant of Davidson College and the last of remaining symbols of the old days of slavery and the log cabin. Baxter lived to see the termination of slavery and, of more significance, the many changes that Davidson College has gone through in the disputed 81 years that he lived. Baxter was born in the early fifties on the old Patterson plantation, which was located five miles from Davidson. Born in slavery, he remained so until its abolition which followed a few years later. Baxter remained with the Pattersons until the year 1873, when he came to Davidson to work. Some time prior to '73 Baxter had journeyed a few miles north of Davidson to find his wife Maggie Reed, who had been raised by the planter John Reed. When Baxter came to Davidson in '73, at the age of 20, he found work on the farm of H. P. Helper, Sr., who is the father of H. P. Helper, well known here in Davidson. Baxter continued his farm work with the Helpers until some time in the late eighties, when he began work for the college. It is said that Baxter was an active young darkey in those days. Baxter’s first job with the college was that of janitor, and for 40 years he has held this and various other jobs that have ranged from that of janitor to the more recent work that was given him because of his age. Through all these years Baxter has remained faithful to his duties until his last illness of about a month ago. The death of Baxter’s wife preceded his own by four years. In his passing not only has the title of the oldest janitor gone into new hands, but also a joy to long absent, returning alumni, has been removed. New buildings might be in the places of the old ones and the campus might have changed, but in Baxter they always found a familiar figure.

Department Editors Are Chosen for Davidsonian
Stokes, Anderson, Brown, McCutchan, and Dickinson Are Editors

As a result of a need for new department editors, feature editor, columnists, and special writers, five men were appointed to the staff of The Davidsonian by the editor-in-chief, A. N. Brown. These five men will fill the posts of social editor, feature editor, columnists, and special writers. The men appointed to fill the posts are D. T. Stokes, social editor; D. P. Anderson, feature editor; J. W. McCutchan and J. L. Brown, columnists, and J. Q. Dickinson, sports feature writer. A number of men tried out for these offices after a call had been issued in chapel. They were only appointed after a careful consideration of the merits of the articles handed in by the contestants. The social department is a new feature of The Davidsonian. The social editor will appoint one man from each fraternity to be an official correspondent from that fraternity to report all social activities. Social news of interest to Davidson students at other schools will be reported. The feature page will be similar to the one already in the paper, with only a few minor changes. The two columnists will contribute on alternate weeks, one column will be similar to “Ollipodria” and will be called “Cosmic Chaos,” the other column is to be called “This and That.” On the sport page the services of J. Q. Dickinson have been secured to write on sport topics of interest. They will be national and international. John Q. is one of the most widely informed men in college today on the subject of sports. The title of the column is to be “John Q’s Dope.” D. T. Stokes is a member of (Continued on page 8)