December 13, 1928 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

SOC

Glee Club Feted on Trip

While on its tour of the Eastern part of North Carolina, the Glee Club was the guest at a number of social functions. After the concert at Troy, the Parent-Teachers’ Association of that town honored the boys with a reception. Punch and sandwiches were served by young ladies of the town.

The Glee Club was the guest of the Senior Class of Flora MacDonald College at luncheon on Tuesday, December 4th, in the college dining room. The Senior class of that institution sponsored the concert given in the college auditorium on the afternoon of the same day. Miss Alice McConnell, president of the class, welcomed the glee club.

At Salem College in Winston-Salem, the Glee Club was the guest at dinner of the Senior Class in the dining room of Salem College. It was a semi-formal affair. The young ladies appeared in dinner frocks and the men in tuxedos. The dining room was decorated with the college and class colors. The Senior Class, of which Miss Cam Boren is the president, sponsored the Davidson concert on December 7th. After dinner, the Davidson boys were accorded a reception in the main parlor of the college. Members of the Senior Class were hostesses.

At Duke University in Durham, where the glee club attended the State College Glee Club Contest, it was the guest of the Glee Club Association. The different towns in which the Davidson boys played accorded them many social courtesies. Many of the members were guests at parties and dinners in private homes and gatherings of a social nature.

C. E. Social

On last Saturday night, the Christian Endeavor Society of the local Presbyterian Church was host at a social honoring a number of the college students and young people of the town. A number of games were played. Hot cocoa, cakes, and Philadelphia cream cheese sandwiches were served.

Davidson Boys Attend Musical

On Tuesday night, a number of Davidson boys journeyed to Charlotte where they were present at a presentation of the Charlotte Choral Society at the Charlotte High School Auditorium. The Choral Society is under the direction of Mrs. Coral Baker, well-known to Davidson music lovers.

Y. M. C. A. for Freshmen

On Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of this week, the Y. M. C. A. held a series of teas, honoring the Freshman Class, which was divided into three parts, each visiting the “Y” room on a specified evening. Members of the faculty were on the entertaining committee. The ladies of the town served tea.

PERSONALS

The Civic Club met Tuesday afternoon at 4:00 p.m., in the Civic Club rooms.

Mrs. Milburn has been very ill but is improving. Mrs. L. Brady has been assisting in the hotel during the sickness of Mr. and Mrs. Milburn.

The Book Lovers’ Club will meet December 14th, with Mrs. Lingle. Mrs. Shewmake will give a paper on “Rambles Through Burns’ Land” and Mrs. Vowles on “The Haunts of Scott.”

Mrs. L. R. Grey entertained with an informal reception Saturday afternoon in honor of her mother, Mrs. Wharey.

A representative of Modern Cookware gave a demonstration dinner at the home of Mrs. A. L. Hobbs last Thursday night with sixteen guests present.

Howard Arbuckle spent the weekend at home with his parents.

Circle No. 3 will have their Christmas party Thursday night at the home of Mrs. Fleagle. Circle No. 5 will have theirs on the same night with Mrs. Arbuckle.

Miss Maude Vinson spent the past weekend in Greensboro.

Mrs. Josephine Worth of New York was a guest in town a few days last week.

Dr. Watts is excavating for his new home next door to Prof. Porter’s in Faculty Heights.

Dr. Sentelle has been away over the past weekend to attend the funeral of his nephew.

Dr. J. E. Flow, the new evangelist of Concord Presbytery, now making his home in Davidson, is conducting a special meeting in Salisbury.

With The Other Colleges

Units Dedicated

Cleveland Plain Dealer, Dec. 12.—The first unit of the new Notre Dame College, Green Road, South Euclid, was dedicated recently by Bishop Joseph Schrembs of the Cleveland Catholic Diocese. Alumni of two generations and the present student body attended the exercises, and young men and women representing schools and other activities were in line of march throughout the corridors.

The building is of English Gothic design. It is located in the center of a campus of 55 acres. Additional units will be added as the necessity arises. The inner material is reinforced concrete. The surface is bridge-crossed, trimmed with special sandstone. The interior finish conforms to the outer design. Light gray Carthage marble, with imported rouge lumi base, is the first floor finish. Terrazzo work is set on all upper floors. The walls, in special Gothic plastic, are ornamented by niches and cornices.

There is a need for a greater number of high schools and colleges so that Catholic principles may become more thoroughly a part of the mental and spiritual equipment of the coming generation, Bishop Schrembs declared.

254 Foreign Students

New York Times—A total of 254 foreign students, representing fifty-two countries, are attending Teachers College, Columbia University, this year, according to a report of the International Institute under the direction of Dr. Paul Monroe. Thirty of these are here on scholarships offered by the institution and eleven on Macy scholarships. The figure is slightly larger than that of last year, it was announced, and will be increased during the Spring session, when about one hundred more foreign students are expected to enter. By the end of the year, almost seventy-five countries will be represented.

What Price Education?

New York Times—The total expenditures for public education in the United States in the past eighteen years have increased 230 percent, and the end of this upward scale is not in sight. Professor G. D. Strayer of Teachers College, Columbia University, an authority on the financing of education, declared in delivering the principal address at the closing session of the University of North Carolina’s first annual Southern Conference on Education. He contends that while the need for educational expansion continued to be urgent, the rapidly increasing wealth of the country proved that education was a highly profitable investment. As a result of the continued and rapid increase in the income of the people, Employer’s Liability Policy relieves you of all worry and protects you against loss. McAlister Carson (’13), Mgr.

HOW ABOUT YOUR SKILLED LABOR

Why do you take the risk of having to protect yourself and pay heavy lawyers’ fees and damages when an employee is injured?

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

M. B. Speir, Jr. (’26)

Delta Pi Kappa To Award Cash Prizes

Rather noticeable interest is reported in the Delta Pi Kappa editorial and feature article contest by those in charge. This contest, announced last week, is sponsored by the journalistic fraternity of the campus and is seeking to stimulateInterest and arouse latent talent in this field. Cash prizes amounting to $15.00 are offered with $5.00 as the first award in each division and a second prize of $2.50. Features and editorials, in order to be entered in the contest, must be in the hands of Aubrey Brown before noon on December 20. Limits of 350 words for editorials and 500 words for features have been suggested. Information regarding the competition may be obtained from W. K. Pritchett, R. F. Jarratt, F. D. Miller, or Aubrey Brown.

“Y” TO GIVE TEA FOR FRESH CLASS

The Y. M. C. A. is giving a series of teas this week for the Freshmen class. The purpose of these is to promulgate the Christmas spirit among the class and to enable the individual members to become better acquainted with each other. The teas will come on Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday afternoons from 4:30 to 5:30. The class will be alphabetically divided into three sections. The faculty advisors of the men present will also be present. They will preside over the teapot, while several of the young ladies of the town will serve. Miss Mary Black is in charge of the entertainment. The rooms at the “Y” are to be decorated in Christmas colors. There will be a Christmas tree, Christmas candles burning, etc. The Y. M. C. A. has done much work for the teas, and it is hoped and expected that they will be a success and a great treat to the Freshmen.

One of the serious problems of public education today is the provision for that type of education that will enable men and women to use their leisure time to the best advantage.

Capt. Otto Is Head Of Fire Department

On Wednesday morning, December 5, the various companies of the R. O. T. C. battalion were assigned their duties as a Fire Department. The Fire Marshal of the fire-fighting unit is Capt. J. A. Otto, and his assistant is M. M. King. The following duties were assigned to the companies in case of fires on the campus or in the town of Davidson: Company A will procure the hose, chemicals, and ladders and proceed to the fire. Company B will take charge of the buckets and follow Company A to the fire. Company C will be responsible for guarding fire plugs and water lines, and for regulating traffic. Company D will report to the Fire Marshal for the purpose of salvaging and guarding property from the burning building and adjoining buildings. The band will sound the fire call, and a detachment of eight men will carry a stretcher to the scene of the fire in case of an emergency.

At the regular afternoon parade last Wednesday, December 5, the first platoon of Company A was given first place. The second platoon of Company B came second, and the first platoon of Company C was awarded third place. Company B is now leading the battalion in points, with a standing of ten points. Company A and Company D are tied for second place with nine points each, and Company C is third with seven points.

Band United Fund Is Rapidly Growing

Money for the outfitting of a college band is already being collected or donated to Captain J. W. Elkins. The total sum through Monday, December 10 was $160. Plans are being made to have quite a bit of the money come through interested persons and the remainder to be earned by the members of the band. The amount necessary to properly outfit the band is approximately nine hundred dollars. This sum will include caps and capes which add a great deal to the looks and snappiness of an organization. There will be about 45 men in the personnel and these men will not necessarily be taking R. O. T. C. The men are to be chosen from the best musicians in the school and will have regular formations.

As announced in this paper last week, the first public call for aid will be made at the basketball game in the gym which is with Furman on January 9. This call will be made to the students to contribute to the fund. A quota will be assigned to each class as a goal and the individual members will work toward that end. A large number of the professors in the college have already signified their intentions of contributing to the fund. One sum of fifty dollars has been secured by Captain Elkins and it is hoped that quite a bit of the money will have been gathered before the re-opening of school after the holidays. Donations are rather expected from alumni in the towns where the band has appeared in their R. O. T. C. uniforms for football games or other occasions.

A plan is now underfoot whereby the band itself may aid in increasing the fund. Each year the permission to sell drinks, peanuts, candy, and other commodities at athletic events is given to the Students Store or a worthy student. The plan is to get permission for the band to have charge of the concessions. This would aid in at least a small way to attain the goal. The main purpose of having a uniformed band is to have them furnish music for all athletic events. They will also play for any meetings or conventions near Davidson which might require their services. The need for a colorful band has long been seen at Davidson but has just reached the point of necessity. Consequently, Captain Elkins has been placed behind the movement and will have charge of the fund.

I. R. C. EXTENDS BIDS

(Continued from page 1)

...made in violation of the spirit of the League of Nations, which forbids secret alliances. This treaty provided that France and England would help each other in case of war. England would supply cruisers and France, submarines. However, information of this arrangement leaked out, and at once the treaty was disavowed by both parties. The English prime minister resigned his post.

Buy your Christmas Cards at the Students’ Store! Assortments of 12 beautiful cards for 75c. Engraved cards 15c each. Also new line of Sweat Coats, $2.00 Each. We have your size.

The Students’ Store

IT’S YOURS, WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?

The sun never sets on Chesterfield's popularity

“Globe trotters,” we can imagine Dr. Freud as saying, “are people whose nurses dropped them onto an escalator in early childhood. They buy a sun helmet, a guide book, and a first-class passage to the Pyramids, and are never heard from again.” Nevertheless, the most confirmed voyageur thrills at finding a carton of Chesterfields in a tiny cafe on the Left Bank, or a package of the same on a card table at the Army Club at Simla, or on meeting an Arab camel-boy whose only English is “Sooch popular mos’ be desarve!” For Chesterfield’s popularity never saw a sunset; travel as far as you will, this cigarette will always be somewhere ahead, ready to bring good taste and good tobacco home to you. Such popularity must be deserved—and it IS!

CHESTERFIELD

MILD enough for anybody... and yet... THEY SATISFY

LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.