Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN October 25, 1928.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not be published.

BROWN................. Editor-in-Chief

EDITORIAL STAFF
F. D. MILLER........ Managing Editor
C. M. A............... Managing Editor
R. F. ................. Managing Editor
Z. Y. ................. Sports Editor
V. A. L............... News Editor
P. B. ................. Society Editor
D. P. ................. Feature Editor
W. W. ............... Assistant Editor
L. B. ............... Assistant Editor
C. R. ............... Associate Editor
B. ................. Associate Editor
W. PRITCHETT........ Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
M. POWELL........... Business Manager
E. H. McCALL......... Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. ............... Asst. Bus. Mgr.
F. OOP............... Circulation Mgr.
R. FENNIN........... Subscription Mgr.
H. McL............... Solicitor
G. D. G............... Solicitor
A. CANNON........... Solicitor
E. S. ............... Solicitor
P. R. AT............. Solicitor
C. H. DU PORET...... Solicitor
R. GRAH............. Solicitor
W. RIRKPATRICK..... Solicitor
R. WEAVER........... Solicitor
S. H. LON............ Solicitor
S. WILEY............. Solicitor
J. P. McBRYDE....... Solicitor
S. MIDDLETON........ Solicitor

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1928

The Davidsonian Wants
—to congratulate the new Phi Beta Kappas.
—to break the jinx and win from Wake Forest.
—to thank the Administration for leaving the electric current on all night.
—to urge a large attendance at the remainder of the excellent “Y” services.
—to see a big crowd of students in Charlotte backing the Wildcats Saturday.
—to congratulate the local classicists upon their initiation into Eta Sigma Phi.
—to know who will form the staff for this paper next year if more sophomores don’t begin working at the office.
—to say that so many political speeches, syndicated articles and pamphlets referring to the present presidential campaign have been received, that all have been refused publication.

EVERYTHING MUST NOT BE WRONG WITH THE COLLEGE FOLK
A favorite subject for magazine discussion during the past few years has been “What’s Wrong With the Colleges?” People, always ready to point out imperfection, have become inclined to say that everything in the higher educational institutions is wrong, even when it isn’t. Especially is this attitude true as regards graduates of the later decades of the nineteenth century or the first decade of the twentieth; but there are those who were in close touch with affairs in the colleges at that time who tell us that a good deal in college social life and education did not correspond to the pretentious and platitudinous claims advanced by the authorities on ceremonial occasions.

President Faunce, of Brown University, stands with the group viewing the situation in the light of his own student days, as he says, “The danger in the American college is not that students will become false-hearted, but that they will become scatter-brained” as they engage in so many student activities. The latter, he believes, are often a “mere frittering away of time and energy into utter futility.” No longer willing to break rules in a sporting spirit, undergraduates resent “any limit as to hours or expenditures or garb or manner... as a puritanical restriction suited only to a kindergarten,” and insist that there shall be no rules to break. Students are becoming more conscious of their privileges and freedom.

But offsetting this changed condition, which reflects the temper of a money-spending, pleasure-loving, luxurious age, has been the effort of many colleges to exact higher standards of scholastic work. Whatever freedom may be the student’s, there may always be the requirement that he acquire the elements of an education. President Lowell and other educators find the average undergraduate intellectually more alert than twenty-five years ago. If the students’ miscellaneous activities tend to make him scatter-brained, the college authorities have it in their power to require a grade of scholastic work compelling him to concentrate. A means toward equilibrium at least.

HE’S NOT SUCH A BAD FELLOW
Talk about religious tolerance, political tolerance, and tolerance of many other kinds, is frequent, but the idea of tolerance between students is somewhat overlooked. It’s rather difficult to catch the other fellow’s view of a situation and to realize what his attitude is. Very often, however, this is due to misjudging because of too narrow a standard. A splendid spirit of friendliness exists here. It is easier for this to be true where the student body is small. But there are many who regard others with an air of aloofness or of independence—a don’t-care attitude, until by chance a closer association is formed and the discovery is made that this fellow isn’t so bad as had been thought. Right decent sort of boy. Just because one comes to know the fellow a little better. Associations are being formed here that will last for a lifetime. There are more opportunities for finding out what kind of man lives across the hall or sits at the other end of the table. Get to know him. This little jingle gives the idea:

“When you get to know a fellow, know his joys and know his cares,
When you’ve come to understand him and the burdens that he bears,
When you’ve learned the fight he’s making and the troubles in his way,
Then you find that he is different than you thought him yesterday.
You find his faults are trivial and there’s not so much to blame,
In the brother that you jeered at when you only knew his name.”

STUDENT OPINION SAYS “THUMBS DOWN” ON SUCH CAPERS
Reference to files of The Davidsonian a few years ago shows that a problem at that time was the conduct of the student body—certain elements of it—at Hallowe’en. Unthinking, prep-schoolish boys, not cognizant of the proper manner of conduct of the college man, bethought themselves the evil sprites who have a way of stirring up a bit of devilment on this occasion and strewed the campus with unsightly decorations. Sensible men in the student body quickly let it be known that such actions were entirely out-of-place, and the practice was suppressed. Lest there be any who might be contemplating any similar capers, let it be known that it is out of order.

AND THERE WAS LIGHT!
Thanks to the Administration, Davidsonians will no longer have to study by candlelight, or be forced to enter dark dormitories after midnight, as the recent ruling leaves the electric current on all night. A great improvement! Mrs. N. T. Smith, matron of dormitories, deserves the thanks of the student body for her perseverance in bringing about this concession as well as for many other thoughtful services which she renders from time to time. The entire student body is glad that the need has been seen and that the remedy has been applied. The Davidsonian extends thanks.

Current Comment
By John Brown

Hotchpot
By W. K. Pritchett

WANTON WILES
By Dave Anderson

BY JOHN L. BROWN
In memory of the late General Leonard Wood his friends are soliciting $2,000,000 for a leprosy hospital and clinic at Culion, Philippine Islands. The popular belief seems to be that leprosy is a thing of the past belonging to Bible times. There are, on the contrary, 4,000,000 lepers in the world at present. Chaulmoogra and its by-products are the only medicines known to treat leprosy. It is not a cure, but it seems to stop the terrible rotting and eating of the disease. The injection of the oil into the veins of lepers, however, causes intense pain, so that often lepers fight against its use.

An epidemic of alcoholic deaths occurred last week in Manhattan when 33 persons died within 3 days. It was found that wood alcohol had been substituted for pure alcohol in a popular drink on the East Side. Federal authorities dodged responsibility on the ground that wood alcohol is not a beverage, but a recognized poison, and as such its sale and use are not regulated by Federal laws, but by State laws.

Last week near Boston Speaker Nicholas Longworth of the U. S. House of Representatives started a speech by saying, “The letter H is the beginning of Hoover and the end of Smith.” But that doesn’t necessarily mean anything except perhaps as a slogan for Hooverites. After four weeks of straw polling, the Literary Digest reports, from 40 out of 48 states, 1,210,869 popular votes for Hoover, or 425 electoral votes; and 688,829 popular votes, or 42 electoral votes for Smith. If straw votes mean anything at all the Young Men’s Democratic Club of Davidson College, and other such organizations have plenty of work to do between now and November.

And now Col. Charles A. Lindbergh has entered politics to the extent of sending a wire to Hoover upholding his capability for the executive office. Babe Ruth and eight fellow Yankees have for their slogan, “You cannot beat the Yankees or Al Smith.” The first part has been proved for this year at least. Now for the second part.

In China the government has excluded the teachings of Confucius from the schools. This action seems to many to threaten temporarily at least the unity of the Chinese people. W. F. Johnson in the North American Review says, “It looms most ominous and menacing, at least potentially, when we consider the part that Confucius has placed in the national life of China for 2,000 years. His teachings have been the one effective basis of Chinese unity, the one potent bond that for all these centuries has held the people together under a common head... The abandonment of such a unifying force must have portentous results.” This action does loom as a temporary menace, but if the permanent and unifying force of Christianity can be introduced China will be made a much better nation.

In Berlin last week a certain man announced that he had talked continuously for 43 hours and would continue to do so until he talked for 150 hours. Then he would be champion.

Mr. George Bernard Shaw was at Geneva recently to hear the debates of the League of Nations. Interviewed as to his impressions by a representative of “Aux Ecoutes,” Paris weekly, the Irishman gave the following reply: “During the debates I conceived the plot for a play. The action takes place in the year 2536. War has been killed and people have forgotten how to fight each other. One thing that will have revived though even at that time will be episcopal hierarchy. That’s an evil that won't disappear so quickly. Well, one day England feels she has been grossly insulted and decides to fight. But there are no generals and no armies, and nobody knows how to fight. Somebody thinks the archbishop of Canterbury might still know. But this gentleman declares himself incompetent to offer advice. He suggests, however, that they ask the Unknown Soldier, buried in Westminster, to help the nation out of its muddle. Just as theDignitaries of the realm move in solemn procession to the abbey, a figure approaches, who bears a remarkable resemblance to existing figures of Jesus Christ. The figure implores the dignitaries to desist from planning for war. They chase him away. By a special spiritualistic procedure, quite a usual thing apparently in 2536, the lords and leaders call upon the unknown. He answers, pushes the tombstone away, and delivers a terrible oration against war. But he does it in German. The Unknown Soldier, buried with pomp and circumstances by King George and the British people after the war, was a Prussian grenadier.

Hoover’s son has taken to aviation. His father is also up in the air. College fraternities have been scored in the leading editorial for the October number of the University of Georgia Alumni Record which is just off the press. The editorial was written by T. S. Gray, alumni editor and secretary. “As now organized and operated fraternities are worthless and are inconsistent with the aims of education,” the editor maintains. “College presidents say little about the situation because they do not want to start trouble, and faculty members overlook it for the sake of popularity.”

“The damage of fraternities is done in a number of ways,” the editorial asserts. “Their fine-spun notions of etiquette and culture standardize more college men per year than could a hundred schools of Ford philosophy. Their false standards of value, based upon small town ‘society’ theories, permit them to reject innumerable worthy students and accept a considerable number of rogues. This gives rise to inferiority complexes that in some cases are sufficient to drive students away from college, to say nothing of the very undemocratic breach it causes in the student body.”

The editor, who is a fraternity man, suggests that one way to “remedy conditions” might be found in encouraging every student to join some fraternity. “Perhaps then the folly of the system would become apparent to the students, and fraternities would topple with their own weight.”

Are the above criticisms true of Davidson’s fraternities? (Continued on page 4)

The new record price for a seat in the New York Stock Exchange is $465,000, made last week. This is an increase of $50,000 over the previous record which was established last month. (Continued on page 3)

OPEN FORUM

Editor’s Note: This department is provided for those who care to give vent to their feelings along almost any line. Just so long as the writing conforms with the Faculty rules imposed on publications and the author is known to the editor—signature preferred—the article will be published.

WHO WANTS THAT PAPER IN THE LIBRARY

Mr. Editor: That a newspaper of the type of the Fellowship Forum should be allowed in the reading room of this College is an insult to the good taste of the majority of those who frequent the Library. We imagine that it is a gratis subscription—but most of the others are—and that it is too highly valued to be discarded. But valued by whom? Who wants trash like that in a place where it will be nothing but an eyesore?

It is bitterly opposed to Governor Smith in this campaign because of his religious affiliation. That is the heart and soul of the publication. Slanderous, vulgar, and vile it is. How it gets through the mails is a wonder. Even a Republican supporter will not read it. And that must be pretty bad. We don’t want the paper there!

“Senator Heflin.”

THE ALL-NIGHT LIGHTS

Mr. Editor: The greatest improvement in dormitory life since I have been in College here was effected recently when the Faculty announced that the lights would, in the future, remain on all night. Students have needed and wanted the old condition changed for a long time but it seems not to have been brought about until now. I just want to be one to urge that the period of trial be extended into permanency.

Sleepwalker.

THE BULL PEN

With characteristic promptness, the D.G.N. (Davidson’s Greatest Newspaper) is making inquiries into the wreck which occurred on the road from here to Charlotte immediately after the Wofford game. It seems that two taxicabs collided and some 25 or 30 Scotchmen were killed. Complete details will probably be published in this paper sometime in the near future (meaning any time when the Managing Editors need something to complete a column. Right now, the Vote-for-Smith Club is doing duty as a space filler. About one-tenth of this club are old enough to vote and we'll bet five of those ten haven't the necessary “e pluribus” for poll tax).

In spite of this club, there are still a few who prefer oil to alcohol. And there are others, like ourselves, who agree with whomever we happen to be catching a ride with at the time. Only about two weeks until election day, and Mr. Coolidge hasn't come out for anybody yet. Cal must be planning on a grand slam in the ninth—so nobody will have a chance to forget. Lindbergh came out for somebody about a month ago, but nobody remembers now just who Lindy was favoring. Another thing. We’ve always wondered if the candidates vote for themselves?

A girl friend of ours, who has acquired the reducing habit, has even gone so far as to remove all over-stuffed furniture from her home.

FAMOUS EPITAPHS

Here lie the bones of John Van Sahn
A Chicago gangster-gentleman.
He lighted a deadly bomb one day
And calmly tossed the match away.

That famous Scotch song-writer comes out with a new hit: “I Can’t Give You Anything but Love.”

Quite a sum of money is to be spent soon in the improvement of the college laundry (so called because it first started that age-old collegiate custom of wearing shirts without the collar buttoned up—just try and button ’em up after one washing). A new machine, said to be almost superhuman in accurateness, will be installed to separate socks that match and send them to different ends of the campus. A new button-remover will also be installed. Many have made complaints about this, saying that it is extravagance and a waste of money to buy a new such machine. We agree with them. You can’t perfect the perfect, sez we.

“They never walk back when I take ’em out,” bragged the undertaker.—Auburn Plainsman.

The motto of the Weather Man’s Club seems to be: If at first you don’t succeed, guess, guess, again!

AND IF YOU’RE FROM MISSOURI

Recent chemical investigations have been made trying to prove that it is not wood alcohol itself which kills the absorbent but formic acid, formed from the alcohol. Formula: HOOCH—Formic acid. CHOOH. Nevertheless, we still believe in the power of our wood alcohol and we think these investigators have made a mistake. It is just a matter of a misplaced letter. HOOCH—Pink elephants, roses, green turf.

The Davidsonian makes claim to being the largest newspaper in the South. Why not? Two New Orleans papers, an Atlanta paper, a Birmingham paper, and several journals from Florida’s magic cities, claim that distinction. All of these have a larger circulation than The Davidsonian, we admit. But none of them have more news articles about so little news, none of them can out-bluff us, none of them can prove anything to us or anybody else. So why not get in the swim? It seems to be an old journalistic custom, eh, what?

WANTED

What this column needs is a to fill up two columns each week.

Contemporary Thought

POLITICS AND THE STUDENT

Daily Illini: Greater consideration of how the welfare of the community can be best conserved is an outstanding issue before the colleges of the United States, Dr. Ernest M. Hopkins, president of Dartmouth, said in a matriculation address last week.

Judging from the political conversations we have been in on, it seems that the campus is well awakened to the fact that the nation is about to elect its chief executive. A university student should be politically conscious. He should judge the candidates and their parties carefully before deciding to throw his vote to any presidential candidate.

“If within our college and university constituencies we cannot assume a more solicitous interest and a more responsible consideration of these matters than is existent in the country at large, individuals and the public are entitled to inquire, ‘Wherein is the influence upon or gain to society of higher education?’” he said.

We feel optimistic about the situation. The reasoning and opinions on the political situation shown around the fraternity dinner table have been skeptically and logically drawn. They are made with practically no regard for traditional party affiliation, and they have been influenced little, apparently, by religious prejudices. The issues influencing the reasoning in the undergraduate mind have been the concrete, stable questions facing the country.

DO COLLEGE GRADUATES?

The McGill Daily: A McGill student was interviewing a prominent businessman a few months ago with a view to obtaining a situation on his approaching graduation. The prospective employer, of course, inquired the academic standing of the applicant, and was told, modestly enough, that “it averaged about second class.” Imagine the student’s surprise on receiving this comment from the businessman: “I don’t care, so long as it isn’t a first, I don’t want my men to know it all.”

Is that a justifiable indictment? Do college graduates, especially the “first class” honor men, think they know it all? Do they step out of college with the idea that there is nothing more to learn—that they can go right into any business and tell the old-timers how things ought to be done? On the whole, we think not. But whether or not such is the case, there is no gainsaying the fact that there is, in certain quarters, a prevailing impression to that effect. It is an impression perhaps built up on a few isolated instances, but even such comparatively unfounded opinions require a good many cases to the contrary before they will admit disproof. It takes scores of good steady “willing-to-learn” college graduates to live down the effect of one or two “know-it-alls.”

The man or woman who graduates from the university with the idea that his degree indicates the summit of human learning and the acquisition of all worthwhile knowledge, has missed entirely the spirit of his education. The most impressive thing about college education, to some of us at least, is the magnitude and multiplicity of subjects which we cannot even hope to learn. With all our classes and courses and what not, we can but barely scratch the surface of knowledge. We may honor, we may specialize, we may spend years and even lifetimes in the quest—and in the end the gleam is still vanishing over the horizon. Some little assistance, some additional equipment for the search, is all that the best university education or the highest college degree can give. All else must be learned from life. If we “know it all” it is but a sign that we have not truly learned the significance of those lessons which have been placed before us during our undergraduate days.