2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1928

WILDCAT TRACKS
Following Davidson’s “MEN OF MIGHT” Along the Athletic Trail
By Zeb Long, Jr.

The Wildcats are in the midst of one of the best winning streaks that has been seen around these diggings for several years. Evidently “Doctor Charlie” has been burying his ancient and far-famed rabbit foot around first base, and as a result, the team has been hitting like demons, fielding like big-leaguers, and the pitchers look better than ever before. If that old cotton-tail limb wins ball games, why, get a bushel or so of them, Charlie!

Four slashing victories over Oglethorpe and Lynchburg constituted the week’s program for the varsity. McInnis again stepped in to win two of these games, while Kugler and Meadows showed form to cop the two remaining. “Smiling Joe” Meadows justified the faith of the boys from the East when he turned in his first win of the season. He twirled a nice game, though hit rather freely, and outdid tradition by driving out a long three-bagger.

There is no doubt that Davidson boasts one of the strongest college outfields in the South. Ratchford, Johnson, and McConnell form a trio that guard the outer gardens to perfection. Johnson came through with some of the most sensational catches ever seen here, in the second game with the Petrels. He accepted ten chances and made them all good. The stands gave Hal a big hand as he trotted in after a seemingly impossible catch of a low liner. Byrd, of Lynchburg, also joined the circle of the mighty by pulling down a couple of smacks that had all the earmarks of triples.

Mattox’s Wildkittens broke their tie with Wingate Junior College in nice style.

“Lefty” Younger’s Men Win Four
Virginia Trip is Most Successful in Several Years

Davidson Wildcats invaded Virginia on April 2nd in their first trip of the season to win from Guilford College, two games from Lynchburg College, and one from V. P. I. All the contests were close and well played although the boys at Lynchburg put up the strongest opposition. McInnis was called upon twice by Coach Monk to do the twirling and each time handed back a victory.

Meeting Guilford on the way to Virginia, the Wildcats received a good start by taking them in camp to the tune of 6 to 0. Doc Kugler held the Quakers at his mercy throughout the whole game, allowing only five scattered hits, while his teammates bunched their six hits when needed.

Coach Monk let his loose against Lynchburg College on April 3rd for the first game of the series to win 4 to 2. Although outhit by Lynchburg, the ’Cats bunched their hits in the eighth inning to cinch the game. McInnis kept the Virginia hits well scattered and in places where they didn’t count.

The second game, with Doc Henderson pitching, was a close call, ending 2 to 1. Two hits in the eighth inning were made good for the only two runs Davidson made and proved to be the final scoring for both teams. Lynchburg made two safe blows count for their only run in the second inning.

On April 6th the V. P. I. team put up a fine scrap but couldn’t get started until the game was called in the seventh inning, and they were left holding the short end of a 9 to 1 score. McInnis again hurled bang-up ball, with Thompson subduing the visitors to the tune of 3 to 1. Thompson looked mighty good in this, his initial start, and with good support, (Continued on page 11)

It’s a Smashing Hit!
The DUNLIN—for University Men
Society Brand

It’s the particular favorite of the best dressed university men. For it possesses every feature of the correct college cut. And unusual smartness well balanced with that conservative touch that is always associated with the well-dressed man’s clothes. We offer it in a wide variety of exclusive woolens.

Lynchburg Hornets Drop Freshmen Tennis Aces
Straight Games on Trip

Couple of Slugging Bees, to Rejuvenated Wildcats
’Cats Slug Savagely and Field Excellently Against Hornets

JOHNSON STARS
Outfielders and Hitters Have Big Days While Hurlers Show Nice Form

Davidson College Wildcats added their third and fourth victories of the week when they defeated the Lynchburg College Hornets by the decisive scores of 9 to 4 and 13 to 3. Johnson played in both games like a major leaguer.

Both teams played good games and trounced on the ball without mercy. In the first game on Wednesday, the 18th, the ’Cats bunched 13 safeties to tally 9 runs; the dozen bingles of the Hornets were kept scattered. The Davidson boys scored five runs in the first inning, enough to win the game, when Bell was wild, giving five free passes combined with an error and two hits.

Johnson, playing deep in center during the Wednesday game, made a beautiful shoestring catch in the sixth inning, robbing the Lynchburg batter of an extra hit. He also swung a wicked stick in the Thursday game by poling out a triple and two singles out of three trips to the bat. Byrd, Hornet centerfielder, showed his ability to pull in the flies when he snatched two out of the air for beautiful catches in the Thursday game.

The unlucky number 13 featured the final game with Lynchburg, butIt happened to be an ill omen to the crew from Virginia. Hitting the ball in every direction, the 'Cats garnered 13 hits off of Grant, and when the score was added it was found to tally exactly 13. This was the fourth time this year the Davidson team defeated Lynchburg College.

Box score and summary (first game):

LYNCHBURG
AB R H PO A E
Malone, ss --------- 5 0 1 1 0 1
F. Newman, rf ------ 4 0 1 1 0 0
Rardin, cf --------- 4 0 1 2 0 0
Wiley, p-lf -------- 3 1 0 2 0 0
Bell, p ------------ 4 0 0 2 0 0
Totals ------------ 38 4 12 24 13 1

DAVIDSON
AB R H PO A E
Harrison, 2b -------- 5 1 1 2 1 0
Ratchford, lf ------- 5 0 0 2 1 0
Dunn, ss ----------- 5 1 3 3 0 0
Johnson, cf -------- 5 0 0 0 0 0
Kugler, 3b --------- 4 2 2 1 4 2
McConnell, rf ------ 5 1 2 1 2 0
McAulay, c -------- 3 0 1 5 0 0
Meadows, p -------- 4 1 2 0 3 0
Totals ------------ 38 9 13 27 10 2

Score by innings: R H E
Lynchburg --------- 000 100 201 — 4 12 1
Davidson ---------- 500 013 00x — 9 13 2

Summary — Three-base hit: Meadows; two-base hit: Malone; stolen base: Harrison; struck out: by Meadows 3; base on balls: off Bell 5, off Meadows 2; passed ball: McAulay; wild pitch: Bell; balk: Bell; umpire: Brandon.

Wildkittens Defeat Bingham Track Men

In their first dual meet Saturday, the Freshman track team defeated the Bingham Military Institute to the score of 72 to 41. The Freshmen took five of the six first places in the running events, while the Cadets managed to nudge in two first pointers in the field events. Neal, of Davidson, was the high scorer of the day, taking first in the 100, 220, and 440 yard dashes for a total score of 15 points. McCall closely followed with 12 points chalked up to his credit. For the Cadets, Lillard led with eight points to his credit, Neal following him with seven.

Summary:
100 yard dash—First, Neal, Davidson; second, McCall, Davidson; third, Neely, Bingham. Time, 10.4.
220 yard dash—First, Neal, Davidson; second, Goodykoontz, Davidson; third, Finlayson, Bingham. Time, 24.6.
440 yard dash—First, Neal, Davidson; second, Finlayson, Bingham; third, Goodykoontz, Davidson. Time, 55.
120 yard low hurdles—First, George, Davidson; second, Dennis, Davidson; third, Tanner, Bingham. Time, 15.2.
880 yard run—First, Dapira, Bingham; second, Drake, Davidson; third, Middleton, Davidson. Time, 2:18.
Mile run—First, Wilson, Davidson; second, Daffin, Davidson; third, Johnson, Bingham. Time, 5:18 1-2.

Field Events:
Shot put—First, Walford, Bingham; second, Neely, Bingham; third, Fraley, Davidson. Distance, 42 feet 8 3-4 inches.
Discus—First, Lillard, Bingham; second, Neely, Bingham; third, Boyle, Davidson. Distance, 107.2.
High jump—First, Brock and McCall, of Davidson, tied for first place; third, Lance, Bingham. Height, 5 feet 4 inches.
Pole vault—First, Brock, Davidson; second, Bender, Bingham; third, Lance, Bingham. Height, 9 feet 9 inches.
Broad jump—First, McCall, Davidson; second, Lance, Bingham; third, Bender, Bingham. Distance, 20 feet 2 inches.
Javelin—First, Coble, Davidson; second, Lillard, Bingham; third, Bender, Bingham. Distance, 150 feet 4 inches.

A Complete Drug Store service
Kodaks
Fountain Pens
Stationery
Finest Candies Made
A complete stock at all times
See us for special occasions
White Drug Co.