‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

NATIONWIDE PROGRAM
(Continued from page 1)

engage the V. M. I. Cadets at Lexington, Va. In a recent Freshman gallery competition shooting, Harry Mixon, of that class, won the competition with a score of 194, out of a possible 200.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

RUINED
McALISTER CARSON (’13)

A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharge over 1,000 gallons of water in 30 minutes, or about 35 gallons in 60 seconds. No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our SPRINKLER LEAKAGE POLICY. The cost is a trifle compared with the protection.
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Students Excited by Burning Field

Shortly after supper (the evening meal at Davidson) on last Monday evening, a red haze seemed to spread across the sky over the buildings beyond the railroad tracks. Immediately there began a regular barrage of alarms as calls of “fire” went back and forth on the campus (please do not mistake this for “Fii-yo,” as it has an entirely different pronunciation) and soon the fire apparatus, including buckets, hose-carts, extinguishers and non-coms, was making rapid progress in the direction of the (supposed) blaze. The more skeptical of the student body, remembering the disappointing alarm of last fall, lingered behind, while the more adventurous and daring souls rushed pell-mell toward the excitement. The blaze was mounting higher and higher; the cloud of smoke, reflecting the flames beneath it, covered the city and illumined it as if it were brightest noon-day. Hoarse calls of “hurry, first,” “women and children” and “stand back” hastened the...

CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE
S& W
ATLANTA (Soon)
ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

Let us furnish you with supplies for the new semester. A complete line of note books and accessories.

SEE THE NEW BLES
A new design by Hickok. The Davidson College Seal neatly engraved and supported in durable enamel colors. English grain leather belts---truly Hickok Quality.

EQUIPMENT FOR DAVIDSON MEN in Silver

“Y” Column

The semester is now started and much is to be done in the months to come. The student body will settle down to its routine once more, after the reaction to exams has passed. The time to make the most of your work is now, when the new work is just starting, and when there will be much that is important in the studies at hand. Make the most of your time, and then with the course started off in the right way, there will not be that fearfulness and shakiness that so often is present when exam time rolls around again. Plan now to be ready for them when they do come once more, and they will seem much less fearful than they have before.

The Y service this week will be led by Dr. Oren Moore, a Davidson alumnus, a famous football player while here, and one of the most prominent physicians in the state. He has spoken here before, and always has made inspiring and helpful talks. Don’t miss this service—it’ll be one of the best of the year.

Vocational Guidance will soon start and then the student body will have the opportunity to get first-hand information about various vocations and callings. Try to hear the man representing the profession you have in mind, and if you are not decided as yet, hear them all. It will be of unlimited advantage to you, and the talks will be made elsewhere.

The Y service on Sunday, February 12, will be led by Christian and Bill Gardner, both of whom are students in Union Theological Seminary. Christian, a Davidson graduate, was prominent in every way. An O. man, member of Phi Beta Kappa, President of the Y, and generally a big man on the campus. He will be remembered as one of the finest sort of Christian gentlemen. Will be worth hearing. These and two students thinking about going to the seminary,Dr. Ben Lacy will come to preach at church that morning, and he too will be here for several days to talk to fellows who want information and the like. If you want to talk to any of these men, drop by and tell Jim Appleby, and it will be arranged. D. L. Mahood, ’22, is associate professor of English literature at Denison College, Granville, Ohio. J. H. Townsend, Jr., '19, is director of music at Clemson College, S.C.

North-end of the mill, the fiery breath of a devastating conflagration struck them full in the face. Some farmers were clearing off land beyond the mill preparatory to spring planting. Wolf,” together for bigger and better fires. “fli-yo” too.) of great help to you in making your more definite news as to these will be under the leadership of Bill Chris- of the campus leaders while here, being KK. by the upper classes as being one of the students will have charge of the Y vespers, and will also talk to fellows who are real rescuers, and as they madly rounded the And yet, this reminds one that potent little, folk-tale of many years ago, “The Down with false alarms, let’s pull. (And TRUSTEES MEET

According to an announcement made here last week, the sub-committee appointed to consider the fraternity-housing situation at Davidson will report to a committee of the board of trustees on Monday, February 13. The report will be made at a joint meeting of the committees in Charlotte on that date.

ABDICATION

Student Government at the University of Wisconsin is no more. The faculty has accepted the self-deposed student senate’s recommendation that its charter be considered defunct, and thereby has seconded the opinion of student leaders that there is no reason for maintaining an unimportant and unnecessary institution. Since 1916 the men’s student senate has been the highest council in student affairs. In October, the members voted to disband, after deciding that their actual powers were few and of little import. Self-government will be administered by five administrative boards. Centralization will be had by the union of the chairmen of these five bodies in the supervision of student elections. Otherwise, there will be no central board of control.

The cobra is deaf to all sounds, its hearing apparatus consisting of a delicate membrane which receives only ground vibrations. Indian charmers knowing this, tap the box or basket in which the reptile is kept, partly stunning the creature by the force of the vibrations. It is thus rendered tractable so it can be handled.

The Department of Agriculture has developed a method of treating sawdust as food for cattle and sheep.

A favorite weapon of the ancient caveman was a club made from the mammoth’s foreleg.

Substitution of potatoes for spaghetti in the national Italian diet is one of the reforms attempted by the Fascist regime.

The superstition that breaking a mirror brings bad luck dates from the time magicians consulted mirrors. These, if broken, could give no replies.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see M. P. Crawford. QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

If in need of any Oxfords, Shoes, Shirts, Neckwear, Suits or a nice Top Coat come in; we can supply your wants.

THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO. 5th Door from Bank

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated MANUFACTURERS OF ICE CREAM - BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND DeLUXE CUPS Mooresville, N. C. CALL US FOR SPECIAL ORDERS

New Spring Suits

Fresh Country Vegetables STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders BARNETT AND COMPANY

New suits for spring in smart styles for young men---handsomely fashioned and well tailored---of blue cheviots or oxford greys---made by well-known manufacturers---very moderate in price---come and see them.