November 8, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AFTER THAT WOLFPACK, DAVIDSON + CAT TRAX As They Follow the Red and Black By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

“Muddy water” was all around their feet up at Lexington Saturday, and if the famous song hit by that name hadn’t been written before, it would have had birth then without a doubt. The minute the Davidson boys reached the field the heavens opened and the rain came down. And the wetness and the sight of V. M. I.’s “beef trust” coming on the field, however, didn’t daunt the bloodthirsty Cats, and they proceeded to give their scrappiest exhibition of the current season. It looked like a Davidson team for the first time in weeks, and the way those little red-shirted linemen locked horns with the best of Virginia’s soldiery was a sight to remember for many moons. Again and again, the Cadets cannonaded their way to the last trench of the Wildcat stronghold, and every time, when it seemed that nothing could avert a touchdown, the thin red line threw them back. A fumble paved the road for the enemy's initial count, and a 15-yard penalty placed them in line for the next one.

The ‘Cats were badly handicapped by the wet field and ball, and never got a sustained offensive started, but they succeeded in making every thrust by the Soldiers a most miserable experience. Our cap is off to Walter Fraley after seeing him play behind the line in that game. The pride of Barium Springs flashed the best defensive game seen hereabouts in a good while. When a runner evaded the line, this sophomore fullback took it upon himself to stop the play, and he did just that about every other play of the game. Coach Monk was overcome, and greeted him with real bona fide words of commendation when he finally came out of the game in the last quarter. So you know that Fraley must have showed real pigskinning. None of the Davidson men were seen weeping over the fact that Ab Barnes, candidate for All-Southern Honors, was out of the game. Barnes graced the bench throughout the contest, having been injured in last week's battle with Maryland. Hawkins and Harner did their best to atone for Ab’s departure. They accomplished the task pretty well.

FIGHTING WILDCAT ELEVEN IS TRIMMED BY FLYING CADETS Heavy V. M. I. Team Ploughs Through Lighter Davidson Men for Pair of Touchdowns SOGGY PLAYING FIELD Kell and Fraley Lead Cat’s Attack—Fumble Paves Way for Squadron’s First Score

For the second straight year Virginia Military Institute applied the whitewash to Davidson's Wildcats. Thirteen to nothing was the count this time, and that was just about the difference between the two teams last Saturday. Every step of the way the Wildcats fought valiantly and doggedly, many times hurling back the heavy Cadet eleven from the very shadow of their goal posts. On two occasions, aided by a fumble and a long Davidson penalty, they pushed the oval across the last white mark, kicked goal once, and that was the scoring.

In the first quarter, Davidson got off to a splendid start. Kell broke away for pretty runs of 22 and 42 yards to keep the Cadets on their heels, and Brock did some nice punting to protect the Wildcats’ goal. Soon, however, an adverse break in the form of a Davidson fumble, gave V. M. I. the ball and the Red and Black 16-yard strip. A sustained drive from this point, with the ’Cats fighting vigorously, netted a touchdown. Goal failed.

Again, in the final period, V. M. I. rushed the ball through a rapidly tiring Wildcat line to the 45-yard line. Here a 15-yard penalty on Davidson gave the Cadets first down on the 30-yard line. A long pass, Williams to Loughorn, placed the ball on the six-yard mark, and from here Williams ran off tackle for the score. Scott kicked a pretty placement goal.

Davidson never threatened seriously to score, but many times the slashing runs of Kell had the Cadets on the go. The wet ball, for it was raining steadily most of the time, seemed to hinder the attack of Monk's men considerably. They found it difficult to handle the slippery oval. Always it was the superb defense those frail ‘Cats put up that held off the plunging Cadets from additional scores. With little chance to win the battle, the Wildcats lived up to their name as a fighting team in grand style, and gamely withstood the powerful thrusts of the heavier and more experienced military team. Too much praise cannot be given to Fraley, who showed one of the finest defensive games of the year in his fullback position.

Soldiers State Star Lindsay Jordan—Gus Tebell’s Best Bet on the Flanks.

DUKE IMPS DEFEAT WILDKITTENS 18-0 Visitor’s Heavy Line Proves Margin of Victory

Buck Miles’ Wildkittens lost a hard-fought grid game to the Duke University Blue Imps last Friday by the score of 18-0. The play was marked by heads-up and hard football by both elevens. The yearlings were much more evenly matched than the three-touchdown margin indicated. The Duke Frosh received the opening kick-off and began a sustained drive which reeled off a series of first downs and finally cracked over the Kitten’s line for a score. This proved to be Duke's only sustained drive of the contest. After this, the Davidson forward wall would stiffen in time to keep the Blue Imps out of scoring territory. Duke's other two touchdowns were the direct result of a pair of costly breaks which were quickly utilized as counters by the future Blue Devils.

Immediately after Duke's opening drive, the Wildkittens staged a real attack of their own. Receiving the kick-off deep in their own territory, the fleet Frosh backs began a series of off-tackle slants, end runs, and forward passes that placed the ball deep in the Blue Imps’ territory before the visitors rallied to smother the attack.

All eyes now turn toward the Gate City of Greensboro, where Monk will shoot everything he’s got to win from Gus Tebell and his tough crew of Technicians. The Wolfpack is threatening to walk off with honors in the state again this fall. From reports, it seems that Carolina was the underdog in the scrap with Bob Warren and company, and everybody found out that State packed a wallop when they held Florida to a couple of markers. State is going to be just as hard to lick as ever, even if Mr. Jack McDowall has pulled stakes over at Raleigh. Saturday will find the Wildcats in the best shape of the year, and these games past have served to give the raw recruits in Monk’s squad the training under fire they needed so badly. Baker, David, and Goodykoontz saw very little service at Lexington, while...Sam Black, of course, remained on the sick list. All these boys should be raring to get in this week, and providing that the team fights as it did against V. M. I., we refuse to agree with the experts and concede State a victory. Again the Wildcats are rated as having no chance, and for this very reason they are more dangerous than ever. If Carolina should drop a few more regulars on account of injuries in this week’s clash with Bill Laval’s Gamecocks from South Carolina, then the Wildcats would be downright dangerous to the Tar Heels on Homecoming Day. Collins’ team was evidently weakened by the rough treatment received at the hands of Tech’s linemen, and we attribute a large part of their showing against State to that fact. Carolina has a great team this year—there is no getting around that fact. Their backs alone are enough to ensure a great eleven. He was in nearly every play, tackling hard and consistently. Archie, Leftwich, and McConnell showed up well in the line and bore much of the Cadets’ attack. Line-up and summary:

V.M.I. (13) Position Davidson (0)
Mood Vitec Seager Brock Left End
Archie Left Tackle
Harper Left Guard
Chadwick McConnell (c) Center
Willard S. Smith Right Guard
Hewlett Leftwich Right Tackle
Scott Middleton Right End
Hawkins Flinn Quarterback
Holtzclaw McKell Left Halfback
Harner Brohard Right Halfback
McCarty Fraley Fullback

Score by periods:
V.M.I. 6 0 7 0—13
Davidson 0 0 0 0—0

Touchdowns—Dunn, Williams. Point after touchdown—Scott (placement).

Substitutions: V. M. I.—Rochelle for Haase, Dunn for Holtzclaw, B. Smith for Moody, J. Smith for Willard, Williams for Harner, Harper for Williams, Laughorn for Hawkins, Wooters for Rochelle, Williams for Harner, Biggs for Dunn, Palmer for Scott. Davidson—Covington for Harper, Decamp for Smith, Mason for McConnell, Baker for Leftwich, David for Middleton, Brohard.

Referee—Carrington (Virginia), Umpire—Hartsell (North Carolina State), Linesman—Sampson (St. Albans).

One Pound Envelopes SPECIAL - - Sixty-nine cents WHITE DRUG COMPANY SODA Paper and

State will enter the arena gory from her triumphant and unexpected tie with Carolina last week. Davidson will be waiting with lessons well conned from the strong V. M. I. eleven. Consequences unknown but certainly violent. The Pack has miraculously hit its stride and leaped into the championship limelight. The State coaches seem to have succeeded in awakening their squad from its somnambulistic appearance of the early season. The eleven pairs of red and white stockings that trotted into the big Keenan bowl last Saturday were filled by the pistons of a football machine that kept the blue and white supporters in a continued paroxysm of fear for four grilling quarters. Bob Warren, the leader of the Pack, and Outen, the one hundred and ninety-pound fullback, continually mowed paths through the highly-touted Carolina line for needed yardage. Melton skipped around

“From Uncle Ed”
Hit’s rumored roun’ in dis here town
Dat State is gwine to beat us;
But I’se fo’ bits whut’s safe’en soun’
Dat ses dey don’ defeat us.
Dey's comin’ down so pert ’en smart
A-steppin’ wid de ban’,
A-steppin’ hyar, a-steppin’ dar,
Not keerin’ whar dey lan’,
De boys come down long wid de gurls,
You orter to see de britches!
Hit's dem whut orter wear de curls,
‘En be doin’ fancy stitches,
Dey's up dar now a-spottin’ points
Against dis Wilecat ‘leben
But Uncle Ed's gwine loose his joints
‘En roll a lucky seben;
He'll be settin’ thar at whistle time,
A-pullin’ for his mens—
A-pullin’ for dat thin red line
That represents his frens.
De tears'll mos’ close up his eyes
A-settin’ dar so still
While he's rootin dere for College Ties
Of men back on de Hill,
‘En when de boys stan’ up so true,
‘En sing de Mater Song,
Why, Uncle Ed, he stans up too,
Hit really ain’ so wrong.
His battered hat is in his han’,
His heart is standin’ still,
He's pullin’ for you, man to man—
His frens up on de Hill,
—Ches Rice.

heartbreaking gains. Adams, the vehement little end, starred several times with a peculiar end run—he faked a pass until the Carolina ends were sucked out into regular pass defense and then he had merely to gallop gaily through the resulting hole. Astonishingly enough to most sports writers, the famous Schwartz was seemingly outclassed at center by Metz. Undoubtedly Jordan and Silver are two of the best flankmen in the state. Melton, also good at circling the ends, seems a fairly accurate passer. These seven sewed to a quartet of their husky brethren, present a team which is in no (Continued on page 6)

THE QUEST FOR THE BEST CIGARETTE
Life, liberty, and the pursuit of the finest in cigarettes. And hope springs eternal. . . . Our quotations may be a little mixed—but as far as this “quest for the best” business is concerned, Camels are the end of the trail, and the realization of hope. We'll bet life, liberty or what-have-you on that.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C. 1928