Ae A ae A Re Bs aS THE v ore ¥ —— DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

UNCHARITABLE

Undergraduate indifference has led the Princeton University student council to recommend discontinuance of the present community chest plan for supporting
student enterprises on and off the campus. At the same time, letters have been sent to parents, explaining the situation
and asking them to meet the deficit. Princeton, like other universities, adopted the chest plan to protect the students from
the annual flock of drives on their finances. However, the students have failed to rally to the plan of lump
giving, and the old single drive plan once more is in falling order.

Davidson Resumes Martial Maneuvers

Due to the excellent drilling before Major-General Davis on the fourth and the extra drill on homecoming day, the cadets
of the Davidson corps of R.O.T.C. have been enjoying a well-earned rest. The time formerly consumed with executing Port and
Present Arms has been taken up with refilling fountain pens. But, with the opening of the second semester, active drill
has been resumed. The remaining months of the year will be taken up with the principles of Platoon Close Order
Drill and Outdoor Range work. Military Courtesy, Hygiene, and First Aid will be studied during the class hour. Both officers
and men are working hard in preparation for the Governmental Inspection, which will probably take place in April.

Davidson Will Sponsor (Continued from page 1)

Track will be the object of considerable work, and no effort will be spared to put everything in tip-top shape.
The Davidson meet has come to be almost an institution by now. It comes as a sort of prelude to
the state meet at Chapel Hill, and consequently affords an excellent opportunity.

City Shows ‘Five Years Ago’

“Draw College Draw College Boys” in Wildcat quintet gained a flying start on the 1923 season by decisively defeating Charlotte
“Y” in two successive games and then winning from Concord “Y” and State by large margins.

Dr. J. M. Douglas, graduate manager, has officially announced that William Lee Younger, now head coach of basketball and baseball
and assistant coach of football at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute, has accepted the position of head coach at Davidson for
the coming year. Coach Younger will be given the task of whipping the team into shape. On Thursday evening from
8 to 12, the Home of Good Shoes

We Have A Cracker Jack Shoe for College Men --- at only --- $7.50

We would like to show you them!

Gilmer-Moore Co. Charlotte, N.C.

Davidson is only one of several units of the Reserve Officers’ Training Camp now organized over the entire country. It
is estimated that there are now approximately 209,500 graduates of these units since the revision of the National Defense Act
in 1920. The majority of these men were eligible for eventual commission in the Officers’ Reserve Corps. During the school
year of 1926-27, there were three hundred and twenty-two units in operation in two hundred and twenty-three educational institutions. The
total enrollment of these units was 108,957; 70,809 being in senior units and 38,138 in junior units. At the close
of the year, there were 5,891 graduates. This was the largest annual increment attained since the World War. Davidson is
fortunate in being one of the colleges selected by the government for this work. Most of the students are taking
an interest in attaining the highest perfection in drill. The weekly con-

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Rewh, and Goldsmith

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

MAYHEW’S CLEANERS AND DYERS BUSINESS APPRECIATED SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Students, Our Plant is at Your Service E. N. LINKER, Owner Phone
82-J DICK GREY, Representative Davidson, N.C.

Dressing up that expanse between shoe-tops and trouser-cuffs has been made easy by Tate Brown. Here, at this store, you'll
find an array of their fashionable hosiery to please your tastes. Whether they incline toward the conservative or the collegiate,
we can appease them—to your comfort, to your satisfaction.

Tate-Brown Charlotte, N.C.

Smithson MacConnell was the scene of a unique social affair. The occasion of the party was Dr. MacConnell’s birthday. Forty
guests were received and many old-fashioned games were enjoyed. A special meeting of the freshmen class was held in Shearer
Hall for the purpose of learning the song “Old Ship of Zion.” The proposition to learn the song was presented
by the Court of Control. The Junior class has made arrangements to have a troupe of ten or twelve “colored
songbirds” from the Johnson C. University. In addition to the many famous negro ballads, the troupe will bring musical instruments.

The Red Destroyer has once again struck. The fire was discovered about eleven o'clock and gained much headway before the
fire-fighters took a hand. The alarm spread rapidly and quite a number of students gathered to aid in the saving
of the contents of the house and to endeavor to extinguish the blaze.

Davidson has recently been put on the approved list of the universities and colleges of America. The American Association ofUniversities
have two lists of members, the first one containing only universities. The second list is for colleges whose work and
standing are approved by the association. This means that a student with an A.B. from Davidson will be accepted abroad
and will be admitted to the highest privileges of any institution. This new distinction will be of particular benefit to
Rhodes scholars.

Younger reports September 1 to take up the work of whipping a formidable eleven. About eleven o'clock, the home of
Dr. and Mrs. J. Wil- lis entertained packed houses with his skill. The College Glee Club's rendition of their program
when they sing and play for the girls at Queens assures the audience of a well-rounded program of entertainment. The
next engagement is February 14th, when the Glee Club and the two orchestras will render their complete program.

The Davidson Glee Club will be represented at the meeting of the National Inter-Collegiate Glee Club contest. This meeting, held
in Greenville, is part of the convention of the Southern branch of this organization, formed two years ago to foster
and assist college glee clubs. It will be remembered that at an interstate contest held recently at Durham, Duke University
was adjudged as having the best club in the state, narrowly beating Davidson. Therefore, Foster will attend the meeting in
Greenville as a representative.

The student body is backing their team, and the team appreciates it. Every basketball team must have its nickname. We
hereby christen the 1923 model of the Wildcat machine “The Fighting Devils.” Live up to it, team.

Peace Oratorical Contest
The preliminaries at Davidson College for the Peace oratorical contest, which is to be held at Elon early in April,
will be held here on March 5. The following have expressed their intentions of entering these tryouts: D. Miller, Allan
Frew, “Red” Beavers, Murray Christian, Reid Graham, and W. W. Harrison. The winner will represent Davidson at Elon in the
Peace oratorical contest, which is under the auspices of the State Peace Association, of which Dr. Perish, of Guilford, is
chairman. There will be about six colleges in the state competing in this contest, and the winner will receive a
first prize of $40 and the runner-up $25. A college to enter this contest must have at least three men
in their preliminaries. The subject must either be “Peace,” or some movement of worldwide importance that fosters peace.

The contest between platoons has done much to promote this zeal. Having won the Distinguished Rating for the past two
years, Davidson is showing a splendid indication that it will repeat in the current year.

The presentation of “Rose Marie,” probably the greatest musical comedy, at the Auditorium will have its share of collegiate patronage
on Saturday. The Hornets Nest Post of the American Legion is attempting to bring some six or seven attractions of
varying natures to Charlotte during the next few months. Among the others will be Will Rogers, Paderewski, and similar notables.

DAVIDSON DEBATERS
(Continued from page 1)
“Resolved, That the United States should cease to protect by force of arms property invested in foreign countries except in
case of actual warfare.” Powell and Dillard will debate on the affirmative side in all of their debates, but the
sides that the other debaters will take have not been definitely planned. According to an announcement by Henry Powell, president
of the Forensic Council, the prospects look very good for Davidson. After the winter debates are over, the council hopes
to plan something for the spring. The Freshman debates are being worked on, and they will have the Fresh teams
in fine shape by Easter. No possible information can be given out in regard to the spring plans, for nothing
is quite definite enough for publication at the present time. The oratorical contests come in connection with the debates and
promise something to look forward to in that line.

An order of books has been sent to the Associated Press and will be put on sale at the Y-rooms.
Drop by and look them over. Many worthwhile volumes will be there, and you will have a wide range from
which to choose.

BELK BROTHERS CO.
A Sale of Over 1000 New White BROADCLOTH SHIRTS
Collars Attached. Pretty Quality Broadcloth. All Sizes.
On Special Sale Now $1.35 or 3 for $4.00
Come and See the NEW SPRING SUITS and HATS
BELK BROTHERS CO.

Davidson Theatre
THURSDAY, February 2
“Gentlemen Prefer Blondes”
FRIDAY, February 3
“The Noose,” with Richard Barthelmess
SATURDAY, February 4
A Good Western
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, February 6, 7
“Old Ironsides”
WEDNESDAY, February 8
“The Divine Woman,” with Greta Garbo
