November 15, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page

DAVIDSON OVER CAROLINA--COME ON, WILDCATS!

CAT TRAX As They Follow the Red and Black By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

It looks like a big jubilee down Richardson Field way about two-thirty Saturday. We bet that no three-ring circus in the country can afford more thrills than the clash between Carolina’s Tar Heels and Davidson's Wildcats, and we bet that the winning team will be ready to acknowledge that it has learned how to fight when the last horn toots. We say FIGHT because Davidson must scrap more fiercely than ever before to win, and the Cats are out to win. Therefore, we figure that it is going to require Carolina’s best to whip a fighting Davidson team. Time has shown the Wildcats to be immeasurably better against the Blue and White than against any other team. Age-old rivalry, and the glory of winning from Carolina explain that. From kick-off to whistle—a battle!

Certainly we know the dope—Carolina by three and likely four touchdowns. But we know, too, the spirit rampant in that Wildcat squad. We've seen them battle V. M. I., Clemson, and State to standstills. We've seen 'em improve with every game until now they are a menace to any team. We see the squad in prime shape, we see them rarin’ to go, and so we see Carolina having eleven thunderbolts on their hands Saturday.

Home-Coming day should mean a lot to everybody. It’s the one time of the year that visitors in large numbers see the heart of the school uncovered. The entertainment billed to attract the crowds is football, but football with Carolina is more than just a game. It’s a tradition founded on years and years of fierce, scrappy fighting. Davidson goes into a Carolina game with new ardor and determination—new spirit. That’s why there’s always a chance—a real chance—to win. That’s why thousands of Wildcat supporters are going to feel confident and optimistic on Saturday. You can’t lick a fighting team—not in the true sense of the word. If the score goes against a team that is giving its best, then nobody has ground for complaint.

Carolina is bringing a carload of luminaries to the hill. Captain Schwartz, prominent candidate for all-southern honors; Schuler, Sapp, Jackson, Ward, and others. This crew broke Georgia Tech's line with the first score of the year against the Engineers, and has been a consistent threat to every opponent. Heavy and fast, they will be hard to handle.

There are no regrets about the State game except that unfortunate blast of Dick Carrington’s whistle. See what a little bit of wind can do! Flinn was long gone toward the tying touchdown, and his interference was accompanying him in a business-like manner. Carrington is a good referee, and, in spite of the result, we can’t hold him guilty for his decision. He just missed an important point, that’s all.

That “thin red line” is doing pretty well, most people think. Those big backs on Gus Tebell’s team found the going rather rough, especially in the second half. Their gains were few. Harper and Smith are digging in and under from their guard positions, and are holding like they mean it. Not the sort of holding that draws 15 yards, however! We look for young Riggs McConnell to give the vaunted Schwartz all he can stand. Riggs is playing a wonderful game at center, and is intercepting passes like a center ought to. We are glad to see Dan Leftwich coming into his own after two years of pretty hard luck. Dan is going great guns, and his weight is a power to that little line. Bill Archie and Captain Baker are also strutting their wares in decisive style.

The Brothers Bradshaw and Company, better known as the Davidson Fresh football team, gave State’s yearlings a treat, and, by reports, ran off with everything but the goalposts, and passed until they felt like sprouting wings. Naturally, we congratulate “Cap” Goodson and his ag-

Wolfpack Conquers Younger’s Team in Thrilling Battle

Plucky Wildcats Fight State to a Standstill Before Crowd of 6,000 at Gate City

WARREN STARS

Tying Score for Davidson Ruled Illegal by Officials—Flinn Sprints Fifty Yards

Playing their best game of the season, the Wildcats held the strong Wolfpack to a touchdown victory in Greensboro Saturday. While State had the edge virtually the entire route, their margin was slight and the battle wasn’t over until the final whistle blew. It took everything State possessed in the way of football to eke out a 14-7 victory. But for a referee’s untimely toot of his whistle, the score might have been knotted. Dick Flinn, after a wonderful exhibition of side-stepping, plunging, and nifty running, crossed the State goal-line only to have the ball called back, the referee having blown his whistle in the midst of the play.

All the scoring was done in the first half of the game, the final periods being a nip and tuck affair with the lines of both teams playing great defensive ball. The game was rough, with the big majority of the penalties falling to the State team. But through it all the light Davidson team came through in fine shape, no serious injury being suffered.

For 50 percent of the first quarter, the two elevens engaged in a punting duel, with Brock getting the better of Warren in the exchange. Toward the middle of this period, Warren broke through the Davidson line for a 40-yard run, being hauled down by Flinn on Davidson's 20-yard line. Two line plays failed, after which Warren tossed a pass to Silver, who crossed the Wildcat goal line for the first score of the game. Adams added the extra point with a perfect dropkick.

Early in the second quarter, the Wildcats knotted the score with an overhead attack. Taking the ball on their 25-yard line, they opened up. One pass was grounded, but the next was ruled complete when Kell was interfered with while attempting to receive it. This put the ball on State’s 45-yard line. Kell tossed another pass which struck Adams, State's safety man, and bounded into a bunch of charging ‘Cats. Riggs McConnell grabbed it out of the air and sold out for State's goal line, but was stopped on their five-yard line. Flinn took it over in three line plays and Brock added the extra point with a placekick.

The final score of the game came soon after. Crum ran the kickoff back to the 45-yard line, a line play netted four for State, and then Warren broke through the entire Davidson team for a 45-yard run and touchdown. Adams again added the extra point with a dropkick. This ended the scoring for the day and from then on it was a close battle. It was during the final period that Flinn made the illegal touchdown.

For State, the outstanding player was Warren, and it was due to his work primarily that State secured the verdict. Metts for State and McConnell for Davidson staged a real battle at center, with the Wildcat getting the better of the argument. Brock at end and Leftwich at tackle were the other Davidson linemen. Fraley backed up the line.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

in fine style and Flinn made several pretty gains. The line-up and summary: 

N. C. State (14) Pos. Davidson (7) 
Jordan Brock a showing up well. 
Left End (IN) Archie 
Left Tackle VAURNAN 
Left Guard Harper 
Center McConnell 
Right Guard Smith 

(Continued on page 6)

Carolina Guard Veteran Tar Heel Lineman who will oppose Wildcats here Saturday—Bud congregation of varsity aspirants. 

Tar Heel Captain Brilliant Harry Schwartz, candidate for All-Southern Center, will lead his team against Davidson this week.

PROFESSOR FLEAGLE

Here is the real dope. Take it or leave it, but check up in the Sunday papers and then believe THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Davidson-Carolina, ?. 
WAKE FOREST over Wofford. 
ARMY over Carleton. 
DARTMOUTH over Cornell. 
GA. TECH over Alabama. 
HARVARD over Holy Cross. 
NAVY over Loyola (Balt.) 
NOTRE DAME over Carnegie Tech. 
PENNSYLVANIA over Columbia. 
YALE over Princeton. 
SOUTH CAROLINA over Furman. 
GEORGIA over Louisiana. 
MARYLAND over Virginia. 
TENNESSEE over Vanderbilt. 
KENTUCKY over V. M. I. 
DUKE over State. 
FLORIDA over Clemson. 
V. P. I. over W. & L. 
MISSISSIPPI over Southwestern. 
MICHIGAN over Michigan State.

The modern girl's clothes are like a barbed wire fence, 
That is bright and shiny and new, 
They are built to protect the property 
But not to obstruct the full view. 
—Technique.

“What is this thing, dear?” 
“Only a pawnticket.” 
“Why don’t you get two so we can both go?” 
—Kitty Kat.

Davidson-Carolina In Annual Struggle

Powerful Tar Heel Team Here For Home-Coming Day Battle

The real event for Homecoming Day is the traditional and famous Davidson-Carolina grid battle. Two-thirty Saturday afternoon will find the Wildcats and the Tar Heels lined up waiting for the kickoff to start one of North Carolina’s gala football classics. Carolina is doped to win the tilt—some say that the Tar Heels will win handily, possibly by two or three touchdowns; but then what is dope where a bunch of fighting ‘Cats are concerned? Too often this well-known bucket has been turned over by the Wildcats for the “dopsters” to be taken seriously. At any rate, Mank’s boys are expected to give the vaunted Tar Heels all they can handle.

Coach Collins’ outfit comes to Davidson with at least two things, which, in the opinion of many, would be a credit to almost any team—a gallant stand against the unconquerable Jackets of Georgia Tech, and a certain mustached pivot man who is captain of the squad, Harry Schwartz, all-southern prospect. Their showing against the invincible Tech “Ramblers” is the high-water mark of the season. The Georgia Engineers took advantage of the first half to run up a score, but in the last half, the gridders from Chapel Hill accomplished the impossible by holding the Tech attack in check, and opening a drive that steadily pushed the Georgians back until a Carolina man plowed over Tech's goal line for a score. This was the first time of the season that a touchdown had been registered against Thomason and Co., and it immediately stamped the Tar Heels as one of the South’s most powerful elevens.

Harry Schwartz, the veteran Carolina center who is making a strong bid for all-southern honors this year, is another bright light in the Tar Heels’ season. Schwartz has shown the same stellar form against all opposition this year, not barring even the great Harvard and Georgia Tech elevens. Besides this candidate for all-southern honors, the Carolina lineup boasts an aggregation of well-seasoned and experienced players, including such names as Sapp, Ward, Schuler, Jackson, and others that are equally well known in football circles. All-state selections and former brilliance will count for little when the Wildcats meet their old rivals, the Carolina Tar Heels, before the Davidson Homecoming gathering. Former contests have proved that the Wildcats are wilder than ever with Carolina as their foe, and after seeing the State game in Greensboro last Saturday, that's saying a lot. On the other hand, Carolina, after being held to ties for the last two weeks by teams that they were doped to whip, is likely to be seeking a little blood themselves. All told, this is due to be a fight that will fully satisfy the desire of the most ardent grid fan.

Ray Farris

This Charlotte lad has won a name as a fighting Tar Heel. He will be here Saturday.

WILDKITTENS DOWN N. C. STATE FRESH

Bradshaw Brothers Run Over State’s Husky Yearlings

Buck Miles’ Davidson defeated the N. C. State Freshmen 13-7 on Riddick Field last Friday. Led by the Bradshaw Brothers, the Wildkittens held the Wolflets in check during the entire game. Except for the one touchdown made by Barbour, of State, the Wildkittens were never in danger. Dick Bradshaw led the scoring for both teams with two touchdowns, one in the first period and one in the third period. Captain Goodson made one of the extra points good. The Red and Black machine outcharged, outpassed, and outplayed the N. C. State men in every way, indicated in part by the number of first downs made by each team. Davidson made 13 first downs to State's Freshmen five.

Davidson Position State 
Millers Avery Left End 
Baker Cooper Left Tackle 
Mathis Buffaloe Left Guard 
Wahl (Choynatinnny) Center 
Warren Right Guard 
Mogies Nylen Right Tackle 
Browne Gardner Right End 

Davidson 7 0 6 0-13 
State 7 0 0 0-7 

Points after touchdowns, Davidson: Goodson (dropkick); State: H. Brown (dropkick). Slaughter (Mich.) referee; Lawrence (State) umpire; Elms (Army) headlinesman. Touchdowns: Davidson, Bradshaw 2; State, Barbour.

“Is that old man wearing the black robe a chimney sweep?” 
“No, he’s a Ku Klux from Pittsburgh.” 
—Breeze.

“Does your Chinese cook speak good English?” 
“No, she speaks broken China.” 
—Stevens Stone Mill.

The Smoother and Better Cigarette ....not a cough in a carload 
P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

When a Feller Needs a Friend 
By BRIGGS

NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD

HARRY, WHY DON’T YOU START SMOKING OLD GOLDS? 
OR HE STAYS OUT OF THE PICTURE

---

