R.O.T.C. ISSUE

THEDAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 4, 1928. No. 26

Currie, Holder of State’s Dash Record, Is Chosen to Head Athletic Association

Pritchett and Brohard Elected as Vice-Presidents—Goodykoontz is Secretary-Treasurer

As a result of much balloting on the part of the student body, John Currie has been elected to the presidency of the Athletic Association with Carl Pritchett and Tom Brohard as vice-presidents, and Dan Goodykoontz as secretary and treasurer. The balloting was in charge of W. O. Nisbet, the retiring president of the association.

In the preliminary voting, these positions were open to any members of the “D” Club in the school, the president to be chosen from the rising Senior class, the vice-presidents from the rising Junior class, and the secretary and treasurer from the rising Sophomore class. After the first ballot, there remained for president, Riggs McConnell, Fred Ratchford, and John Currie. For vice-president, those remaining were Tom Brohard, Nat Hunt, and Frank Brown, Carl Pritchett having been elected on the first ballot. For secretary and treasurer were Dean Rusk, “Hub” Covington, and Dan Goodykoontz.

John Currie, the new president of the Athletic Association, is also captain of the Wildcat track team, and is college record holder in (Continued on page 8)

McQueen is Chosen to Edit Chameleon

In a recent student body election, Brown McQueen, Jr., was chosen as editor of the Chameleon for the year 1928-’29. Nominations of the outgoing staff were announced by the present editor, J. Gilmer Wharton. They were, Rough A. Boggess and McQueen won by a rough majority of a hundred, on the first ballot, only some three hundred votes being cast. No nominations were made from the floor.

The elected McQueen is a very able man for the position, having served well as the editor of the fiction department on the 27-28 staff, and as a contributing editor on the last year’s staff of which “Mac” Austin was the head. McQueen is from Raeford, N. C., and is a member of the Sigma Delta social fraternity; as well, he is a member of Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity. The election of McQueen will not, it is thought by many, interrupt the Damon and Pythias bond between the two, Boggess and McQueen, who in addition to being roommates, and fraternity brothers, are members of the same class and workers of equal rank on the one literary production published by Davidson students. (Continued on page 8)

N. C. State Track ‘Cats in Meet With Score of 73-53

Track teams of N. C. State and Davidson halved first places in their track meet here Saturday afternoon, but the Techmen were stronger in the seconds, winning the dual meet, 73 to 53. In the first seven events the Wildcats showed superiority, and held a slight lead, but in the distance runs and in the weight events the men from West Raleigh began to pile up the points which spelled the victory.

The feature of the meet was the superb running of Captain Currie for the ’Cats, and the splendid showing of Heath Whittle, his companion in the dashes. “The Human Flash” opened his collegiate season by easily walking away with the 100 and 220-yard dashes. In both events Whittle was close behind. Dan Leftwich broke his own college record in the shot put, hurling the weight for a total distance of 41 feet and 9 inches. Whittle also set a new mark when he clipped off the low hurdles in 27.3 seconds. Fry was on Whittle’s heels in this race and showed beautiful form. Bailey and Gardner turned in firsts in the pole vault and high jump respectively. Paul Thrower ran a hard race in the two-mile grind but lost out on the last lap.

For State, Young and Brimley led the scoring, the former accounting for 11 points and the latter for 10. King easily won the discus for the Techmen, hurling the discus far beyond the best efforts of Davidson’s entrants in this event.

Summary:
100-yard dash—Currie, Davidson, first; Whittle, Davidson; Koontz, State. Time, 10 seconds.
220-yard dash—Currie, Davidson, first; (Continued on page 8)

Cadets Act Hosts to Army Officers

Following the drill and inspection Wednesday morning B Company, 5th Regiment of Scabbard and Blade will give a luncheon at the Pi Kappa Alpha House in honor of Lt. Col. Henry C. Merriam and Maj. William J. McCaughey, the inspecting officers. This company of Scabbard and Blade was installed on May 8, 1923. It has always been composed of men who have been conspicuous and prominent in college activities. There are 11 active members at present and all occupy outstanding positions on the campus.

Cadet Maj. Howard B. Arbuckle, Jr., who is captain of B Company, 5th Regiment, has been honored by membership in Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, Alpha Phi Epsilon, International Relations Club. He holds a position on the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, is president of the Panhellenic Council and of the Eumenean Literary Society, and was lately pronounced winner of the trophy cup presented by the Pi Kappa Fraternity to the most representative undergraduate in the 72 chapters of this fraternity.

Captain Daugherity Ends Service at Davidson With Close of Present Term

P. M. S. and T. Concludes Four Years’ Service as Instructor

TRANSFERRED TO BENNING

Infantry Initiation at Georgia School Precedes Further Work at Fort Leavenworth

With the close of the school year, Capt. R. D. Daugherity, present P. M. S. & T. and for four years a member of the War Department staff stationed here, will have completed his services at Davidson. He leaves his position here, which next year will be filled by Major Scott, to attend the government military school at Fort Benning, Ga., where he will take an advanced course of instruction for captains.

According to present plans, after the completion of a year’s work in the Infantry School at Fort Benning, Captain Daugherity will spend two years at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, where he will also attend Infantry School. With three years of instruction behind him, he will then probably do foreign service in the Philippines.

Since joining the service in 1916, Captain (Continued on page 2)

Z. V. Long Chosen as New President in Soph Election

Zebulon Vance Long was recently chosen head of the rising Junior class by two ballots. Three men were nominated for the presidency, Brohard, Nunan, and Long. In the first ballot R. T. Nunan was eliminated, and on the second vote Long was chosen to succeed Carl Pritchett, who has served as president of the Soph class for the last year.

Long, a native of Statesville, N. C., has been one of the leading men of the class of ’30. He served this year in the capacity of secretary-treasurer of the student body and lastYear as secretary-treasurer of the Freshman class. He is a member of the Reporters’ Club and of the Beavers’ Club, Sophomore honor society. He was elected as alternate football manager for next year. He was recently initiated into Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, and is the newly appointed sports editor of “The Davidsonian.” He is second vice-president of the Y. M. C. A. Long is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

WHO IS DAVIDSON’S CHOICE

In an effort to ascertain the possible strength of potential candidates for the presidential nomination, The Davidsonian will join forces with other collegiate publications of this state and conduct a straw vote soon after the Easter holidays. College editors believe that this procedure will not only arouse student interest in the approaching campaign but will be a very good index to the strength of the candidates of the different sections of the country. Davidson’s student body, composed of students from 22 states, will, to some degree, help in this attempt. Further announcements will be made after the holidays.

(Continued on page 6)

Military Department Under Inspection of Officials of Army Staff

Cadet Capt. C. C. Trabue is first lieutenant of Scabbard and Blade, belongs to the International Relations Club and to Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Cadet Capt. W. B. Bradford occupies the position of second lieutenant of B Company, 5th Regiment, and holds membership in Phi Beta Kappa, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, International Relations Club and Biology Club. He belongs to the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

Staff of Catawba Man Wins Oratorical Contest

Charles S. Weir, representing Catawba College in the second annual oratorical contest of the North Carolina Intercollegiate Forensic Association, won the gold medal offered to the winner of first place. Mr. Weir's subject was “Our Country’s Need—Idealism.” The silver medal given as second prize was awarded to H. M. Owl, of Lenoir-Rhyne, who spoke on “The Challenge of the American Indian.” Mr. Owl is himself a Cherokee Indian, and has represented his college on the baseball diamond and gridiron. Seven North Carolina colleges were represented in this contest which was held Friday night, March 30th. Two other speakers who were well received by the audience were Milbourne Amos, of High Point College, speaking on “Intolerance Indicted,” and W. W. Cohoon, of Wake Forest, whose subject was “A True Eldorado.” In this talk Mr. Cohoon lauded North Carolina’s progress. Other speakers were Allan Frew, Davidson College, speaking on “The Constitution of the United States;” L. C. Williams, of Elon College, speaking on “My Country First,” and Rembert Patrick, whose speech was “Prejudice Against Catholics in High Office.”

(Continued on page 8)

Lieut.-Col. Meriam and Major McCaughey Inspect Military Department for Distinguished Rating

Davidson’s unit of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps is being inspected by Lieut.-Col. Henry C. Meriam and Maj. W. J. McCaughey today. These officials began their work this morning and will continue through tomorrow. The inspection of the practical and theoretical training of the students began with an examination of classroom work this morning and culminated in the review on the drill field just before noon when the students were released for the spring recess. Lieutenant-Colonel Meriam and Major McCaughey are winding up a series of inspections of the schools in this area in which R. O. T. C. units are established. The two officers arrived here last night from Greensboro, coming there from N. C. State, where they finished an inspection in the early part of the week. Major Early, P. M. S. and T, of that unit, brought the officers as far as Greensboro, where Captain Daugherity met and brought them down to Davidson. The inspection this morning was devoted to a thorough tour of examination of all the work that is done by the students.

(Continued on page 8)

Dr. Monroe Talks on Medical Field

“A History of Medicine, and the Promise of Medicine in the Future,” was the subject of the talk made by Dr. J. P. Monroe, of Charlotte, one of the South’s most famous diagnosticians, here Wednesday. Dr. Monroe was one of four noted speakers obtained by the Vocational Guidance Institution for their final week of service which was devoted to medicine as a life work. Medicine was discussed under three principal heads—anaesthesia, sanitation and antiseptics. Dr. Monroe traced the history of each of these phases from its origin beginning with herb concoctions of the savages up to highly developed laboratory methods. He brought attention to the fact that Moses was an authority on sanitation. The Egyptians and Babylonians have left indications that they were not ignorant in the art of healing. But medicine as it is known today only started with such pioneers as Harvey, the discoverer of the circulatory blood system, and Pasteur, who discovered that disease was caused by germs. After this fundamental knowledge was added, medicine took rapid strides forward. However, in spite of its present proficiency, a great field is open. Dr. Monroe maintained that man’s life was only one-half that apportioned to him by the proportional length of an animal’s life to his period of development.

(Continued on page 8)

Editorial Staff of Davidsonian Next Year Announced by Brown

Members of the editorial staff of The Davidsonian were recently announced by Aubrey Brown, editor-elect of the college weekly, who will take over the editorship of the paper April 19th. The managing editors of the new staff are F. D. Miller, C. M. Pratt and R. F. Jarratt. Z. V. Long will hold the position of sports editor, while V. A. Milton will be news editor. The associate editors are W. K. Pritchett, J. B. Morarity and C. R. Lake. The news editor is an addition to the present staff. All of these men, with the exception of the associate editors, who will be Seniors, are members of the rising Junior class and have been awarded positions with regard to the merit of their previous work. F. DeWolfe Miller, of Surgoinsville, Tenn., besides being a member of the Reporters’ Club, is an honor roll student, and a member of the varsity debating squad. He won first place on the Freshman debating team last year. Charles M. Pratt is a son of Dr. C. H. Pratt, of the faculty of Louisville Theological Seminary, Louisville, Ky. Pratt is a member of the Delta Theta Chi fraternity. He is especially active along publicational lines, having been a member of the Reporters’ Club and an energetic worker on the Quips and Cranks. He has also been on the varsity debating team. R. F. Jarratt, who comes from Memphis, Tenn., is a member of Gamma Delta, social fraternity and of the Reporters’ Club. Jarratt is an assistant baseball manager. The new sports editor, Z. V. Long, of Statesville, N.C., is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, national social fraternity. Long, also a member of the Reporters’ Club, has held the position of secretary-treasurer of the Freshman class.