Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN November 1, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN | Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College FOUNDED BY
THE CLASS OF 1915 SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at
the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00
p. m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not be published. Editor-in-Chief W. N. PRATT Business Manager W. M. POWELL EDITORIAL STAFF
W. W. MILLER Managing Editor J. W. McCUTCHEON Managing Editor W. L. PRESSLY Managing Editor W. B. ARCHIBALD Sports Editor
W. M. FAKE News Editor J. M. McCONNELL Society Editor J. W. McCUTCHAN Feature Editor J. M. McCONNELL Associate Editor
W. B. ARCHIBALD Associate Editor W. M. FAKE Associate Editor BUSINESS STAFF L. A. McCALL Asst. Bus. Mgr. E. H.
McCALL Asst. Bus. Mgr. W. B. McGUIRE Asst. Bus. Mgr. R. F. SPENCER Circulation Mgr. H. B. JENNINGS Subscription Mgr.
H. McLEAN Solicitor G. D. EVERINGTON Solicitor A. CANNON Solicitor REPORTERS’ CLUB L. B. VINES President K. W. McDERMID Vice-President
E. S. HEEFNER Secretary-Treasurer P. R. ALDERMAN F. PRESTON C. H. DUBOSE C. RAGIN R. GRAHAM D. RUSK W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER S. H. WILEY G. McBRYDE J. V. D. MIDDLETON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1928 The Davidsonian Wants —to
welcome the N. C. C. P. A. delegates. —an overturned dope-bucket and a victory over the Flying Squadron. —to thank
the Administration for installing window shades in the various dormitories. —to thank the Lecture Committee for the first of a
series of addresses by authorities in various lines. The Davidsonian hopes that many fine speakers will be brought here during
the year. WELCOME DELEGATES! Davidson’s publications, her student body, and faculty, welcome to the campus, representatives of the various college
and university publications of the state for a three-day conclave. Host to the eighth semi-annual meeting, Davidson opens her doors
today for the sixteenth session. Much of value may be forthcoming from a meeting of this nature, where men and
women, thinking in terms of greater usefulness to their institutions, get together and exchange ideas. Such a meeting may, indeed,
be instrumental in leading to a more intensive activity along better and more profitable lines. Not least to be gleaned
from the meetings, are the suggestions from speakers of this state who represent the journalistic profession grown up. Men with
a practical view who can drive home their ideas to eager listeners have been secured for this occasion. Realizing that
too much work, even by pen-wielders, would lead to monotony, a delightful program of entertainment has been arranged by the
Davidson-Queens committee. Just forget how much it takes to fill a column and how terrible those reporters are and lose
yourself in the merriment of the occasion. We're glad you’re here. OPPORTUNITY FOR THE JUNIOR EDITORS That those members of
the editorial staff of The Davidsonian who are juniors may obtain some experience in writing editorial matter, and that, at
the same time, more representative thought may be brought in, we are devoting a space in this column each week
to their expressions. Too often it occurs that the editor-elect finds himself without sufficient experience in this type of writing.
This plan should alleviate the probability of such an occurrence. Attempts are made constantly to have student opinion expressed in
the Open Forum column, but this is usually unsuccessful. It is difficult to crystallize the opinion of others. The added
editorial will give opportunity for more than one man’s ideas in the column. ACTION IN THE NOVEL America is far
more interesting than would be believed from reading the American novel, believes R. le Clere Phillips, writing in the Bookman.
He cannot think of a single American novel which would ever have aroused in him a desire to see the
country. In English novels, even though the story, the characterization, or some one of a number of things, may be
most important, there is, in the background, the life and manners of England, in Mr. Phillips’ opinion. Guilty, we say,
but not to the degree the critic charges. America’s watchword is action. The country is in a hurry. To be
appealing to the public, the story must have drive and action about it. But Mr. Phillips, thinks one, forgets Washington
Irving’s studies of old Dutch New York in the early days, as well as later writers. There surely must be
an attractiveness in the pictures of the Indiana of the forties Booth Tarkington can draw or George Cabell’s creole New
Orleans or Mary Johnson’s Virginia. The potential great American novelist must be too busy catching up with the great American
fortune to draw the country as he draws its people. HONOR SYSTEM Under fire in many of the colleges and
universities is the Honor System. Discussion rages pro and con and nothing is settled. Some of the larger colleges have
abandoned the system, saying that it does not work, others have only reaffirmed their belief in the “fundamental honesty of
man.” But despite the action taken by some of the leading institutions, the question is still alive in a majority
of the colleges. There is only one way to settle the matter, take a comprehensive survey of all the colleges
that possess the Honor System. If it works, in a majority of the institutions, it is evident that the system
is worthwhile. A classification could be made of the chief criticisms and arguments for and this be used as a
basis for a nation-wide investigation. Is there any real criticism of the Honor System? The one most often used, is
that although the honor system is in effect at a college, professors or assistants still stay in the room where
pledge work is being done. Some claim that this shows the faculty does not trust the men, and thus show
their disbelief in the honor system, and so, if the faculty does not believe in the system, then surely the
students cannot be expected to believe in it too. Why? Merely because there is someone in authority in the room,
is that any reason why he does not believe in the honor of the student? A professor may remain to
be able to help the student in clearing up some part of the paper. Also, why should an honest man
“gripe” about a professor staying in the room? He does not need to worry. Only a dishonest person will worry
because there is someone there to see him. Even if there are some dishonest men, is that a condemnation of
the Honor System? The few dishonest ones are the exception to the rule, and need someone to weed them out.
If everyone was perfectly honest, there would be no need for any system. So, may the Honor System grow and
flourish! R.F. J. A Colorado Springs doctor says men would do well to imitate women’s scantiness of clothing. The doc
ought to know more about anatomy than to make a remark like that. Let’s see; who was the president whose
election was assured by the Literary Digest’s other national poll?—Beacon Journal. Cosmic Chaos By J. W. McCutchan When this column
next appears the country at large will know, without a doubt, the results of the presidential election. It has been
the earnest endeavor of this writer to avoid as far as possible any political altercation. Yet such an event of
major importance cannot escape unnoticed. The question of party loyalty is left to the voter's conscience. However, it is a
pity that of late there has been quite a bit of “mud-slinging.” First: a few religious and moral enthusiasts have,
to some degree, misrepresented certain self-evident facts. The most cardinal of which is: that an effort to amend a law
should not be regarded as an attempt to break that law. It should be noted that the duties of the
governor of a state are to enforce the state constitution, leaving the enforcement of Federal laws to Federal authorities. On
the other hand; obvious attempts have been made to defame the character and honesty of the Republican nominee. There is
no one who is so narrow-minded, however, who will not admit that Herbert Hoover has one of the cleanest political
records ever known. It has been one of service and efficiency. One hopes that the supporters of both parties will
not be swayed by foolish propaganda. Aviation is undoubtedly the future science of transportation. Both lighter than air and heavier
than air craft are daily proving their efficiency and value. Yet only the other day two intrepid fliers found themselves
in the air, literally unable to descend. Having risen to a height of about seven miles, the plane became coated
with ice. The intense cold caused the metal control instruments to freeze, leaving the pilot helpless. For half an hour
the machine remained at practically the same altitude. After much endeavor, the flier managed to drop to a warmer level
where it was found that the gas supply was exhausted. To some of the uninitiated the idea of not being
able to drop would be reassuring, but at that it could prove inconvenient. Moral: Beware of fortunes and fortune tellers!
Beautiful Jenny Golder had the whole of “Gay Paree” at her feet. Possessed with charms more alluring than the average,
she was well on her way toward fame. But for five consecutive times the cards foretold that her later life
would be ugly and poverty-stricken. Unable to bear the thought of this, she committed suicide. Psychology of the superstitious is
hard to understand. Paternal pride would be placed on the rack if Count Leo Tolstoy could see the position of
his son, Ilya. Lecturing about his father and against bolshevism, he has become rather well known and recognized in American
circles. Ivan, the Terrible, or Nicholas III would be more horrified, however, at the idea of rich and poor, the
aristocracy and the proletariat reading and hearing the same addresses. Democracy is in truth a gift of the gods. Astounding
to science is the announcement of Dr. W. F. Lorenz and Dr. A. S. Loevenhart of Madison, Wisconsin. They claim
a temporary, if not permanent, cure of insanity. A certain gas is inhaled by the patient for definite intervals of
time, during which period the individual regains sanity. The experiment has been tried on two inmates of the state insane
asylum with signal success. It is believed that a method will be found which will make the effect of the
gas lasting, at least for periods of a few days. While politicians are seething about in an attempt to build
and tear down the government, big business progresses in its efficient manner. Announcement comes that Chrysler plans to complete the
highest office building in the world by 1930. It will be built in New York at a cost of $14,000,000,
and will tower 803 feet above the street. Presidential campaigns have little power over the sound of riveting machines, samples
of which may be found on the campus. Minor Chords THE CONTRAST I sought the light that blue eyes give,
You sought for glamor—wild and free. I lost the hope thathelped me live. You lost the charm you held for
me. I sought the love you could bestow, You sought cheap love in fancy dress; You seek the joys that
end in woe, And I—forgetfulness.
—Paul Wynburn.

Also be remembered that the greatest | e r Hotchpot

WANTON WILES
By W. K. Pritchett
By Dave Anderson

Oswald Spengler, a German scholar, has recently published “The Decline of the West,” and over one hundred thousand copies have
been sold. He takes this pessimistic and tragic thesis: “that civilization is the beginning of the end, because when things
have ‘become’ they are dead, and it is only the ‘becoming’ that is life.” Count Keyserling recently condemned America not
because it is less “civilized” than Europe, but more “civilized.” We may be going to the dogs, but, as Chesterton
says, they are “rather jolly dogs.”

An oil company bored a hole in Texas soil to the depth of 8,255 feet. As no oil has been
located, the hole will be reserved for the native Hoovercrats to jump into and pull after them.

Have we too many laws in this country? There are probably 10,000,000 laws and ordinances in theoretical effect on the
statute books of the United States, with 200,000 laws and ordinances being added each year. Forty-eight state legislatures, 16,000 incorporated
cities, towns, and villages, about 3,000 counties in the law-making business, and more than 10,000 lawmakers, duly elected, are incessantly
busy making new laws. All of these do not pertain to individuals, but a conservative estimate is that there are
30,000 laws, 10,500 of which are federal, which may affect any one citizen. U. S. Dutton, in American Magazine, declared,
“Justinian felt that 2,000 laws were enough to rule the Roman empire.” The Justinian Code, completed in 533 A.D., became
the groundwork of the present law systems of Italy, of France, and of Germany. Now we have laws covering everything
from the length of beds in college dormitories to the number of words in Hotchpot. There are good laws, bad
laws, and freak laws, all of which cost money. Milton must have been surrounded by law books when he wrote,
“Litigious terms, fat contentions, and flowing fees.”

Two million girls under twenty years of age are working for a living, according to the United States labor department.
No estimate was given of the number engaged in gold digging.

There are now over three million men under arms in Europe; other hundreds of thousands have been called to their
colors for training. France has 686,000 men under arms, Italy 370,000, England 408,000. Germany and Russia alone have reduced their
armies from what they had in 1913, before the great war, Germany reduced from 800,000 to 100,000, Russia from 1,200,000
to 900,000. In spite of numerous peace treaties to outlaw war, there seems to be little indication that swords shall
be beaten into plowshares. However, these treaties will help to make reason rather than force the arbiter of disputes, and
conscience rather than vain glory the guide of policies.

That she has charms I must confess
But what are charms without access?
—Dartmouth Jack O' Lantern

City Boarder: “Milking the cow?”
Hiram: “Naw, just feeling her pulse.”
—Log.

Honored Guest: “Well, I must give you all my thanks for the fine evening.”
Host: “But you've just arrived.”
Honored Guest: “So I have. But I must tell you while I know you.”

“It must be awful hard to lose a wife,” whispered the man at the deathbed of a friend.
“Yes,” agreed Jim. “It’s almost impossible.”

A New York authority says most people still take baths on Saturday night. This shows how a custom will hang
on—they used to do it because they were going to church on Sunday.

One is glad to note that the amount of real money in the United States figures up to $8,213,615,127, which
gives us $40.82 apiece. If you have a large enough family, you’re fixed for the winter.

“Penned Bull” seems more appropriate this week than “The Bull Pen.” But whether it be typewritten, penned, or written with
a pencil, it still remains, forever and always, BULL.

If it’s all the same to them, the Davidson student body would appreciate “The Charlotte Observer” picking the Wildcats to
lose occasionally. We'll never win a game this way. They give the 'Cats mighty fine write-ups and all, but why
not be kind enough to help us win by picking us to lose? Almost everyone was given credit for making
the Wildcats a State Championship team in 1926, from the law of averages down to Doc Charlie, but we still
insist that the credit goes to Jake Wade, then one of the Observer's sports editors. Jake, like the present editors,
gave us very nice write-ups. But Jake, unlike the present editors, never picked us to win. So we won.

Yours loquaciously would like to see another State Championship at Davidson. We might get an army D.D. before becoming a
man of letters. Oh yes, we have hopes of an A.B.—though we WELCOME This column wishes to extend a most
hearty welcome to the North Carolina Collegiate Press Convention delegates, fellow spreaders of the printer’s ink, who come to Davidson
for their semi-annual convention this weekend.

Four out of five have IT, and the fifth writes books on IT. No, my dear Freshman, that is not
the Press Convention that meets in your room every Monday and Thursday nights.

THE SAYINGS OF SOLOMON, THE COLLEGIATE
"It's a wise frat man who knows his own clothes.”

FAMOUS EPITAPHS:
On the Grave of an Atheist
“We dressed him up in his very best,
His Sunday tie in a perfect bow,
Folded his hands,
Placed a lily there,
And gently laid him here to rest,
All dressed up and no place to go.”

From the Temple News, of Temple University, Philadelphia, Pa:
“At a meeting of the Women’s Vigilance Committee held Tuesday afternoon at one o'clock, ten more girls were tried and
punished.—Some of the punishments meted out were—two “young ladies of the mob” to do the well-known finishing act on the
steps of Conwell Hall; one to do the simple task of tracing footsteps on Broad Street; one to wear the
sign around her neck: ‘Please Help the Bum;’ and so on and so on. Two ‘Frosh’ punished last week turned
in eggs with the signatures of many members of the faculty upon them.”

We've always wondered why girls always insist on trying to cover their knees with “dresses which were built to come
three inches above their knees. Please explain.

Some have complained that this column is trying to imitate Will Rogers too much. Why not? He is one of
the highest-paid humorists in the U.S. We've always liked Will and Irving S. Cobb since we read that little book,
“There’s Not a Bathing Suit in Russia.” Either Will or Irvin wrote it—so we admire them both. And that ain’t
all. From all appearances, there ain’t a barber shop in Russia. Or if there is, there’s more to that barber
shop than just hair-cuts, shaves, singes, and tonics.

OUR OWN FAIRY TALES
Once upon a time there was a college boy who had an ashtray in his room that was actually used,
and there wasn’t a cigarette butt on the floor.

‘Tis better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all,” says the poet. To be sure,
it’s better on the pocketbook. Then, too, one is free to love again. Variety is the spice of life, we
have been told.

Someone says we published the same joke twice. This from a man in solitary confinement in the state’s jail, who
has nothing to do but read The Davidsonian. No one else seems to have noticed this mistake on the part
of the printer (all newspaper men blame their mistakes on the printer).

Contemporary Thought
BOOKS AND EDUCATION
Ohio State Lantern: A Philadelphia businessman, who has made an extensive study of college graduates and men lacking college training,
believes that of two men going into business, the one with the intent to go ahead to the best of
his ability, and the other waiting until he finishes his college career, the one with less culture will probably be
the most successful. The investigator explains that the one who starts in business without an education reaches a point in
his progress where he can go no further without the aid of books. One calls for another and he soon
finds out that he cannot get along without some of the things that a college teaches. All college men absorb
some knowledge while in school, but many of them do not form the desire for books that is necessary for
the grade of culture demanded for real success. The man who does not attend college finds reading books necessary, and
he reads more and acquires a fund of knowledge that the graduate does not possess, the investigator claims. While this
difference between the college graduate and the person who has never attended an institution of the kind is exaggerated, it
does impress the fact that college men do not appreciate the value of books as they might. The time to
learn this value is in school. Once learned it is not soon forgotten, and, as usually seems the case, a
person who is well-read has an education that is above reproach. With a library such as Ohio State possesses, a
wonderful opportunity is offered to the student. A few hours spent there each week would prove of immense value in
the course of a year, and that is one way that a student can develop the habit, which is of
unsurpassed importance in his quest of knowledge.

A CULTURAL BACKGROUND
Daily Princetonian: The “broad education” or “cultural background” involves a smattering of this, a term of that; six months of
this course and a year of that. A few facts here, and a few facts there. Enough for us to
go out into the world and hold our own at a dinner party or during a golf match or with
the man we expect to sell bonds to. Enough to allow us to enter almost any unspecialized business and still
seem fairly intelligent in a casual conversation.

It is easy for a man to be cultured nowadays—our magazines are full of offers of canned culture at rock
bottom prices. Education implies a certain specialization, something more than general superficialities. There are two trends today in educational fields:
one towards the broad education, the cultural background, quickly acquired and superficial. The other is towards an education more specialized
and therefore more solid. Princeton has chosen to ally herself with the second trend.
