Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 4, 1928.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by the Monday. Anonymous articles will not be published.

AUBREY BROWN........ Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL........ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
F. D. MILLER........ Managing Editor
C. M. PRATT........ Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT........ Managing Editor
Z. V. LONG........ Sports Editor
V. A. MILTON........ News Editor
P. B. FRY........ Society Editor
D. P. ANDERSON........ Feature Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT........ Assistant Editor
L. L. BROWN........ Assistant Editor
C. R. LAKE........ Associate Editor
B. MORIARITY........ Associate Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT........ Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
E. H. BROWN........ Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Circulation
Subscription
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor

President
Vice-President
Secretary
Treasurer

P. R. ALDERMAN
S. R. COKER
F. PRESTON
C. B. DUBOSE
A. FREW
R. GRAHAM
SISSON
R. WADSWORTH
J. P. McBRYDE
J. V. S. MIDDLETON

Thursday, October 4, 1928

SURE THEY FIGHT. THEY’RE WILDCATS!
With the dope against them and sports writers so beneficent in offering sympathy, Wildcat teams have a way of springing upsets that are startling. Not only in the Clemson game last Saturday did they fight against tremendous odds but time after time have they held on with a stick-to-it-iveness and a tenacity that resulted in a creditable notation on the ledger. Scheduled to lose by three or four touchdowns, they engaged the South Carolina boys with a vengeance, holding a much heavier team time and time again until the opponent’s resort to the air netted a lone touchdown. Credit to Monk and Tex! They are fine coaches and can do wonders with a veritable dearth of material. And credit, too, to that material! Maybe not so husky and experienced as some teams but they have that spirit — that fighting Wildcat determination. And that was what Official Harry Hartsell was talking about when he paid tribute last Monday “to Davidson’s fighting spirit and the youngsters’ ability to do what Davidson coaches had taught them.”

DOES BUSINESS WANT SCHOLARS?
College graduates with high marks are more than twice as likely to acquire a private office and a five-figure salary as those who skin through down at the foot of their class, according to a nation-wide survey made by the American Telephone and Telegraph company and reported by Walter S. Gifford, president, in Harpers. The investigation was made among the 3,800 college-graduate employees of that company and covered a period of two years. 1,600 were less than five years out of college and the remainder were from five to thirty years out. Their records were obtained from 104 colleges.

“It is clear,” says Mr. Gifford, “that the Bell System, on the average, men who were good students have done better than those who were not. There are, of course, exceptions — men who were poor students who are succeeding well and the men who were good students succeeding less well — but on the whole the evidence is very striking that there is a direct relation between high marks in college and salaries afterward in the Bell System.

“Men in the first third of their college classes are most likely to be found in the highest third of their group in salary, those in the middle third in scholarship to be in the middle third in salary” and so on.

“The longer the best students are in business, the more rapidly their earnings rise. The longer the poorer students are in business, the slower their earnings rise.

“The big law firms seek the high-mark men from the law schools. The profession believes that the man who stands well in his law studies will make a better lawyer than one who does not.

“The hospitals take the same attitude toward medical students. But business, on the other hand, does not as a rule select men on the basis of their marks in college.

“If studies by others corroborate the results of this study in the Bell System and it becomes clear that the mind well trained in youth has the best chance to succeed in any business it may choose, then scholarship as a measure of mental equipment is of importance both to business and business men.”

A HITCH IN HIKING
New Jersey has recently legislated against the popular collegiate pastime of “bumming,” “hitch-hiking,” “highwaying,” or what you will. Since September 1 it has been an offense for anyone to ask for or to offer a ride on the open highways of that state. Should this measure prove valuable and be recommended by New Jersey officials as model legislation, then similar measures might be effected in other sections. It is purely a protective course from both viewpoints and purposes to abolish the danger frequently involved when motorists are inclined to be hospitable. This brings to mind certain agitation in this state last spring and the utter condemnation of any who would seek rides in this manner. Gentlemen, be gentlemen as you practice the art of “bumming” or your style may be somewhat cramped.

Minor Chords

SEA SONG
Up anchor, mates, the flooding tide
Is flowing full and free.
The sunrise path of yellow gold
Leads to the open sea.
The wind is rushing through the sheets
The swift sea by the keel,
The green tide swirls about the stern
And pulls the fast-lashed wheel.
The mainsail strains its halyards
And billows to be free,
For the merry crack of canvas sounds
The sea's wild liberty.
Up anchor, mates, and set her sails;
Aye, crowd on every inch
For a gallant craft have we, lads,
She'll never warp or flinch.
Now trim her true and right, lads,
Her mainmast boom swing wide,
Make fast that jib at the topmast
And ease her to the tide.
She's sailing fair and true, lads,
A gallant craft have we;
We'll set her course to the sun, lads,
And steer for the open sea.
—Frank Hall

Allowing that any religious book of large proportions, teaching a certain creed, may be called a bible, there are seven in the world which are admitted to be greater than the others. Of course, the Bible or Holy Scripture is well known and the most widely read book in print. Parts of the Bible, certainly the Pentateuch, are at least three hundred years older than the most ancient of other religious writings. Next to the Bible, the Vedas, or books of the Hindus, are the oldest. Not many people know that a major portion of the Koran, the most recent of all, is a compound quotation of the Old and New Testament and the Talmud.

SPEAKING OF OPERATIONS
Don’t speak of operations, please!
Don't tell me what you've borne!
I'm sorry for your miseries—
How you were cut and torn,
Details like this just make me wince,
Besides it’s not good taste;
At that, it must be ages since
That knife was in your waist.
Your organs, no doubt, are fine,
And you are quite all right;
Give me a chance to tell of mine—
They really were a fright!
—Ed Keiger, in “College Humor.”

Sister’s playing tennis,
Father’s playing tennis,
Mother’s at a club meet,
Chewin’ of the rag;
Baby's in the dooryard,
Ragged as a Turk;
What we need at our house
Is someone who will work.
—The Lawrentian.

Hotchpot

Cosmic Chaos
The “London Spectator” recently had an article giving figures and facts to prove that the men educated under the Rhodes scheme amply justify their place. Ill-informed carpers have made ridiculous capital of the absence of Rhodes scholars from the circle of world leadership, without considering, as this journal points out, that fully seventy-five per cent of them are still in their thirties, and have hardly had time to attain the seats of the mighty. Indeed, it is possible that the majority of Rhodes scholars will never figure prominently in the more spectacular affairs of life, for they have chosen that broader and infinitely more valuable field of service, education. About forty per cent of the Americans who have studied at Oxford as Rhodes scholars are now teaching, and are better equipped for that work, doubtless, than most of their associates who lacked Rhodes training. Law has attracted the second highest number while business has proved a lure to only half the number who chose legal careers. Public service, in the former sense of that term, has not won many Rhodes students, though many realms of public service are represented in the list of their vocations. Medicine, journalism, farming, research work, diplomacy, and chemical service all claim a portion of them. Cecil Rhodes’ primary object in the establishment of the scholarship was to promote international fellowship, and this purpose, the Spectator shows, has been conspicuously fulfilled. Nowhere did he ever assign as one of his intentions the training of young men who could go out into the world and accumulate money. Those who have judged the success of his system by that standard have erred grossly at the start.

President Angell, of Yale, says a political platform is nothing but hot air. He forgets, however, that many politicians can blow both hot and cold.

The record of the last hundred years, and especially of the last fifty, has been the enormous multiplication of one-man-power by newly discovered methods of harnessing natural energy to labor-saving machines. Steam, electricity, water power and oil fuel have altered prodigiously our social life. One little man — Henry Ford by name — in one great country — the United States — has in his own lifetime, by means of his own organization of labor, added to the world nearly 300 million mobile horse-power, or about ninety-seven times the potential horse-power of the Niagara Falls. The whole world uses only 23 million stationary horse-power, of which the United States uses more than nine million.

Has this added human happiness to life in the same ratio as mechanical power? Disraeli said, “The European talks of progress because by the aid of a few scientific discoveries he has established a society which has mistaken comfort for civilization.”

The Turk is now described as the most henpecked of husbands. Thus his claim to being fully civilized is established beyond question, as the adherents of campus football, from freshmen to seniors, who apply it to their physical education. Freshmen who are excited over bid day and the period of silence. “Nuisance,” the friendly pup, chasing the police dog of one of the professors. The advantage of cement sidewalks, while extracting a small gravel from the shoe. New Chambers rapidly acquiring a new roof. To a bull-session.

Only the other day in Vermont, Edward Coolidge, a cousin of the President, won a cow-calling contest at a county fair. Doubtless the percentage of people in the country who were intensely interested in getting the cows home, was larger than the percentage of those in the nation who were interested in the McNary-Haugen bill. Local interests have always had more of an appeal to the masses than any national question. Naturally! Yet the government is a government of the people and by the people. That should not be forgotten.

Rumor has it that Col. Charles Augustus Lindbergh is more than interested in Miss Blanche Satchel, famous “Vanities” favorite. Perhaps it is true. But why must the public be informed of all the intricate and personal movements of prominent idols? Gene Tunney and hisFiancée are admittedly tired of the detailed openness of the plans for their coming nuptials. However, it does not stop with popular athletes and heroes. The President is presented with an Indian headdress, and possibly in a fit of boyishness tries it on. Immediately it is published abroad throughout the land that he has been crowned Heap Big Chief of the Blackfeet or some other tribe. Free speech and press is a privilege, yet would it not be better to allow some of the hobbies and whims of the greater personages to pass unnoticed?

Proofs of Italian espionage have been produced in Switzerland. It is a serious thing for any country to discover that there is an effective organization of spies working within its borders, especially when that organization is controlled by Benito Mussolini. Admitting that Il Duce might annex Switzerland to his Fascism, what of his plans will be carried out after he is gone? For centuries the Alps have provided an effective block to nations invading Switzerland, and Mussolini should think before acting, when it is remembered that that small republic has the most effective and best-disciplined mountain artillery in the world. It is an honor to belong to the Swiss Corps.

J. W. Mc.

In the opening address at Columbia University, Prof. D. G. Mason called attention to the exasperating paradox that, “with the greater amount of leisure which science applied to industry puts at our disposal, the more unleisurely, hurried, distracted, noisy, and feverish our actual life seems to become.” The solitary side of our nature demands leisure for reflection upon subjects on which the dash and whirl of our daily life forbid the mind to fasten itself.

Who said that faith is dead when the Northern press believes the solid South is to be broken?

W. K. P.

WANTON WILES

THE BULL PEN

Now that the annual farce is over and the fraternity men have had a chance to meet most of their pledges, we would like to ask, if you please, just what it’s all about? Oh yes, the two weeks’ rushing season was much better than the longer ones of previous years—cost is reduced and there is not as much time lost from studies (and, incidentally, one can make the first show now that he is not obligated to his fraternity’s rushing business). But the thing remains a farce. A fraternal organization, supposedly a group of the closest friends, picks its members in a two-week period of hectic, mud-slinging rushing. The number of these new brothers is decided, not through the number of men of like manners, likes, and dislikes as the brothers in the chapter, but by the number of initiation fees the treasurer needs to balance the debit column of his ledger, or upon the number of football prospects the fraternity can secure. But this is not an editorial, hence we will suggest something of benefit—to both the future fraternity men and the future freshmen in the world. We contend that any fraternity wanting ten pledges should take ten pledge pins, meet the Rambler at the station, and pledge every third white man that steps off. In this way, hard feelings will be avoided and every fraternity will get just the same number of hits and misses in the bunch.

To the freshmen, since genius is never appreciated and on that account the old farce will never be replaced by the above suggested plan, be fair with yourself before accepting any bids. Answer the following questions. Why did you come to college? Do you wear a large size hat? Do you have a large waistline? Do you wear big shoes and big clothes in general? Where are you from? If you answered “yes” to the second question, don’t join any fraternity. If you answered “yes” to the second, third, and fourth questions, big boy, you had better room with Fats Elliott or else buy your own clothes. All frat men have big heads—you’ll never get a roommate with a hat to fit. If you answered the questions any other way, why, flip a coin and maybe you’ll be lucky.

Earl Carroll once made the statement that no man would give up a throne for a woman. Maybe not, Earl, but remember, the Prodigal Son didn’t give up his fine home for the husks. He didn’t know about the husks.

The official song around Clemson, Furman, South Carolina, et al., seems to be “Everything is Hotsy-Totsy now.”

ON MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS

Four out of five are agents for pressing clubs.

Dear Queen:

ADVICE TO LOVERS

I am a young man of 20 and am desperately in love with a girl two years my junior. She refuses to see me and slams up the receiver when I phone her. I can’t live without her, so what must I do?

B. D. V.

Use Listerine.

Send in your problems to the Queen of Hearts. She will be glad to answer them through this column. Stamped envelopes kept for future use by the editor.

“That’s a new one on me,” said the monkey as he scratched his head.

ANOTHER JOKE THAT’S NOT FUNNY

William Ingram sat comfortably asleep on his front porch in Camden, N. J., last Fourth of July, when, according to newspaper reports, a practical joker placed a large firecracker between his teeth, lit the fuse, and left hurriedly. When the thing exploded, it blew all of Ingram’s front teeth out and left him in a serious condition. If that is a practical joke, then we hope that joker never gets mad at us.

Mother Nature produces rabbits faster than lions because of their greater hazards. Perhaps it is yet too early for the pedestrian class to show results.

NEW VIEWS ON NEWS

What is news? “If a dog bites a man, that’s not news; but if a man bites a dog, that is news.” This statement, made by a stone-age editor as he sat carving out an editorial, has been the accepted definition of news for years. But this is an age of progress; this definition is no doubt a good one, but it means nothing to a cub reporter. The young reporter, taking it figuratively, hasn’t sense enough to figure it out. Nine out of ten of them usually take it literally and go about madly searching for an incident of some depraved maniac biting a dog. Therefore, for the benefit of the younger generation and for progress as a whole, we would like to add to this worthy definition of news.

If the Prince of Wales falls off his horse, that’s not news. But if he manages to stick on his horse during a race or an afternoon’s diversion, that is news. If the heating system at Davidson is broken, that’s not news. But, if they ever get it fixed, that will be news. If you or I should slip on a banana peel and break our necks, that wouldn’t be news. But if a famous tight-rope walker did the same thing, that would be news. If The Davidsonian came out late, that would be natural. If it came out on time, that would be sure enough news. If a drunk hugged a telephone post, that would be a subject for a College Humor joke. But if the telephone post hugged the drunk—that would be news, only we doubt if the reporter would be in a condition to write it up.

The Council Of The Elders To The Pledges

The Gettysburgian:

We have just extended Brown a bid, and he has accepted. I have wormed through the congratulatory crowd, gripped the boy’s hand with a “Mighty glad you’re throwing in with us, Bob!” and then retired to the big leather chair near the fire, to meditate on Bob’s collegiate future. A fine kid; a good thing the fraternity got him. Well dressed, cleanly built, with straight glances, a likeable mouth, and just the desired hint of engaging diffidence. (Of course, accounts of his prowess as a “miler” at the Academy, of his guidance of the school paper, and of his solo work in the glee club have come before him.) Bob will do a lot for the House (and incidentally for the college), I prophesy, gazing into the fire.

Then a strange thing happens. In the red coals, the House (and incidentally the college) shrink from their towering proportions. Oddly, I find myself wondering what we fellows (and the college) are going to do for Bob! An incomprehensible thought to harbor during rushing season; but it will not go away. Neglecting my duties toward the freshman guests, I settle myself to think through:

“Into what sort of a fellow do I want to see you wrought by these four years, Bob Brown?” My pipe smoulders and dies in the thinking.

Well, Bob, for your own happiness as well as for exhibition purposes, we want you to be fairly smooth. The bridge you played before dinner was not too good; but inevitably it must improve! And doubtless you will develop a better “line” for the girl friend, and wear a tux more faultlessly ere you get that sheepskin. But deep in my heart, Bob, I hope that you will not become too smooth, too much like an elegant cipher. Isaiah is not smooth, nor Whitman, nor Lindy, nor Norman Thomas—all of whom have gripped me, and none of whom are “just good company.”

And Bob, don’t be pathologically sociable. Let’s hope that now and then you will be glad, when the last fellow has lounged in and out of your room, to prop your legs on the desk and have a thought or two not compelled by assignments, or even by good form. At odd times I hope to find you browsing through the library shelves or curled up in a reading-nook with a book that doesn’t have to be read before a nine-o’clock tomorrow morning. I hope to find you developing opinions on other than conventional dinner-topics, and a selfish eagerness to nourish your own private soul when it feels vaguely hungry.

You have mental strength, Bob; I’m hoping you may grow in mental bravery; in the knack of chiseling out your opinions and courteously defending them. And I hope that your eagerness of mind may find you friends—heart-and-brain friends—in like-minded fellows throughout the college—in other fraternities or dormitories, and even in professorial homes. Above all, Bob, cultivate the art of grappling to friends who keep you on your toes, who leave you breathless now and then, and perforce make you something of a man. For half a dozen of that breed are worth the hundreds we know by name, and only by name.

There is another art, close-linked to the art of making superlative friendships. The fine art of the bull-session. It is a demanding art, and like the actor’s profession, it cuts into one’s evenings dreadfully. But by all means become an adept therein. A bull session, hotly contested, that leaves you scowling pensively into the dark for long before you drop off to sleep may be bad for your health; but it builds mental sinew.

You have a sense of humor, Bob, that you must bring with you to college. For sometimes you will swell overmuch with the vast import of new ideas. And the sting of laughter is a first-rate remedy for too much of that.

These, then, seek you, Bob: the habit of eagerly searching after the stuff to build your own philosophy; the mental bravery to defend your finished temple; the knack of making priceless friends; the gift of talking with them when you find them; and a saving sense of humor. And all of these to be found in four short but glorious years!

Marshall Bragdon.

Wesleyan College (Conn.)