'THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 9, 1928

English Professor Speaks to Writers

In speaking before the Reporters’ Club in Phi Hall Tuesday night, Prof. H. T. Lilley, of the English Department, gave
many helpful suggestions as to the work of The Davidsonian reporter. This meeting was one of a series scheduled for
the next few weeks, in which it is the purpose of the officers of the organization to bring someone who
can speak authoritatively as to newspaper work. Professor Lilley has been closely connected with publications during his college years and
since that time. He was editor-in-chief of “Quips and Cranks” his senior year at Davidson. Recently he was one of
the principal speakers at a meeting of newspaper editors of South Carolina colleges.

During the course of his remarks, he gave a brief glance over the history of newspapers, stating that the origin
was Roman and that the development did not come until the eighteenth century in England. It was pointed out that
the most rapid and far-reaching strides have been made during the past twenty years. The speaker urged those who are
intending to enter newspaper work after college to choose some specific department of a newspaper and work with that specific
end in view. Professor Lilley urged the reporters to keep The Davidsonian on a high plane and suggested that the
proper emphasis should be placed on deserving features. He spoke of the high standard of the New York Times with
its “all the news that’s fit to print” motto. As to the content of the news story, he suggested a
proper consideration of the readers; the inclusion of all the necessary news; omission of personal theory and guesswork; stressing of
a definite point in each article; employment of restraint in writing and an application of newspaper ethics. Concerning style, he
emphasized the use of correct grammar in a story that is clear, concise, and direct.

Military Training Backed by Leading Citizens

Acting as Civilian Aides, C. M. T. C. Organization Has Widespread Representation

FOURTH CORPS ACTIVE

State Leaders Assist in Creating Favorable Interest in Behalf of Training

Realizing that it was fundamentally a citizens’ project, there was organized, years ago, the Military Training Camps Association made up
of prominent citizens for the encouragement of the youth of the country to take advantage of the opportunities offered at
C. M. T. Camps. Today, over the United States, in every corps area, and in every state there is a
member of this Association and in nearly every county there is a chairman who gives of his time to aid
the War Department in the successful inauguration and conduct of such camps. All of these men are prominent leaders in
civilian life. Its President, Charles B. Pike, of Chicago, states that the Association has active representatives in more than ninety
percent of the three thousand counties in the United States.

In the Fourth Corps Area, former Governor John M. Slaton, Grand Building, Atlanta, Ga., is the civilian aide to the
Secretary of War and is working in conjunction with Major General Richmond P. Davis, the Fourth Corps Area Commander. Under
the plan announced, the Civilian Aide to the Secretary of War for each state will direct the progress of the
campaign within his own state, working in conjunction with officers of the Army. The State Aides who have all served
in this capacity for from two to five years, are as follows: For North Carolina, Albert L. Cox, prominent in
the American Legion in North Carolina, a lawyer by profession and residing in Raleigh.

Arbuckle Picked as Permanent Teacher of Boys’ S. S. Class

Deciding that the best results obtainable were not being gained by having a different teacher each Sunday, the student class
of the local Sunday School voted unanimously for Dr. H. B. Arbuckle as the permanent teacher at a recent meeting.
Dr. Arbuckle accepted the position as teacher with the provision that he is to be absent on the first Sunday
in each month. Members of the faculty will be called upon to fill this vacancy from time to time. Discussion
was led by Carl Pritchett, president of the body, and the consensus of opinion was that a regular teacher could
take greater interest and accomplish more with the class than could be done by having a different professor to discuss
the lesson at each meeting. Dr. Arbuckle has been a frequent teacher of this class heretofore and has gained the
admiration and esteem as expressed in the unanimous vote which was tendered him. Some forty to fifty men gather each
Sunday for the discussions which are held along the lines as set forth by the Committee on Standard Lessons. The
president extends an invitation to those other members of the student body who do not attend regularly to join this
group in the next meeting, next Sunday at 10 o'clock.

WEEK-END GUESTS

Kappa Alpha: Myra Boynton, “Boe” Skeen, Lilian La Conte, Atlanta, Ga.; Emma Catchron, Louise Lee, Charlotte; Sally Linston, Statesville; Julia
Reed Rosenborough, Jacksonville, Fla.; Dollie Spirell, Winston-Salem; Frances Maulden, Bristol; Martha Robinson, Gastonia.

Kappa Sigma: Lou Ellen Best, Tine Thompson, Emma Holliday, Converse; Elizabeth Player, Laura York, Sarah Hargrove, Winthrop; Jennie Wolfe, Dollie
Moore, Charlotte;Alice Caldwell, Salem; Luke Lea of Nashville, Tennessean, the Memphis Commercial Appeal, and the Atlanta Constitution. For South Carolina,
McDavid Horton, editor of “The State” at Columbia. For Georgia, Edgar B. Dunlap, a lawyer by profession, in Gainesville. For
Alabama, Dr. James S. Thomas, connected with the University of Alabama. For Florida, B. C. Riley, connected with the University
of Florida at Gainesville. For Louisiana, Loren R. Brooks, connected with the Times-Picayune at New Orleans. For Mississippi, Alexander Fitz-Hugh,
prominently connected with the firm of P. P. Williams & Company at Vicksburg.

The object of the camps is to teach respect for proper authority; develop self-reliance and decision; stimulate patriotism and promote
good citizenship; return the candidates physically improved, mentally broadened, and with a better understanding of their country and their obligations
to it as citizens.

Wildcat Serenaders Lately Reorganized

A complete reorganization of the Wildcat Serenaders was recently effected. The orchestra changed their name from The Wildcat Serenaders to
the Sunnyland Serenaders and made a few changes as to personnel. The orchestra is a regular unit of the Glee
Club and makes all the trips with that organization. It also has many private engagements on its own program, playing
for various banquets and social gatherings throughout this section. The personnel of the reorganized Sunnyland Serenaders is as follows: Gordon
McSwain, trombone; Owen Geer, first trumpet; J. R. McCravey, second trumpet; Charlie Albright, banjo and director of the orchestra; A.
J. Thompson, first saxophone; J. Hy Ramseur, second saxophone; Howard Reid Mobley, piano; Karl Mosely, drums; and Oscar Gibson, tuba.
The orchestra is carrying on negotiations with prominent steamship lines with the objective of procuring a position on one of
the liners running between New York and Europe during the summer.

Norma Shearer to Head Big Program

There will be a number of excellent pictures at the Davidson Theater next week. On Monday, Ramon Navarro in “The
Student Prince” will probably be shown. This is a new picture and is said to be splendid by all those
who have seen it. Norma Shearer co-stars with Ramon Navarro in this. Harry Langdon, the popular comedian, will appear in
“The Chaser.” This is one of his latest comedies and is one of the funniest pictures of the year. Joan
Crawford in “Rose Marie” will be on Thursday. Those who have seen her in some of her other pictures will
realize that this one can’t be missed. On Friday, Norma Shearer will appear again, this time in “The Latest from
Paris.” Rin-Tin-Tin, the wonder dog, in “The Dog of the Regiment” will be shown on Saturday. This is said to
be a fine dog picture. The program for next week will be as follows:
Monday—Ramon Navarro in “The Student Prince.”
Tuesday—“Good Time Charley.”
Wednesday—“The Chaser,” featuring Harry Langdon.
Thursday—“Rose Marie,” starring Joan Crawford.
Friday—Norma Shearer in “The Latest from Paris.”
Saturday—“The Dog of the Regiment,” with Rin-Tin-Tin.

Southern Glee Club Conference in S. C.

The Southern Glee Club Conference will be held in Greenville, S. C., on Friday, February 10. Most of the important
colleges and universities of the South will be represented at this meeting held in the Textile Hall, one of the
best auditoriums in Greenville. There they will discuss business matters and past meets, and also set a date for the
next conference. Duke University, who recently won first place in the North Carolina Glee Club Contest, will be represented. Guilford
and State will also have men there. Davidson, who took second place at Durham, will send Director Cullum and John
Foster, president of the club, as their representatives. At the meet in Durham, Davidson was only six-tenths of a point
behind the leading club. Governor Richards of South Carolina will attend the conference, as well as many other important individuals
of the southern states. The full quota is expected.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach, and Goldsmith at Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
BUSINESS APPRECIATED

Students, Our Plant is at Your Service
E. N. LINKER, Owner
Phone 82-J

MAYHEW’S CLEANERS AND DYERS
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
DICK GREY, Representative
Davidson, N. C.

CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE
ATLANTA (Soon)
ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

IF YOU ARE GOING TO BE A TEACHER, YOU WILL FIND AT UNION SEMINARY WIDE AND STIMULATING CONTACTS, AN IMPORTANT
FACTOR IN THE TASK OF MAKING PREACHERS

Seventy-Second Session Opens September 19

VIEW OF THE STUDENT BODY OF UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY, SESSION OF 1926-1927

The following quotation is from the last annual report to the General Assembly: “Of the 148 men enrolled, 101 are
college graduates, 29 have had college courses in part and 18 have had no college training.” Eighteen States of the
Union are represented. Three colleges and universities are represented in the student body. Also the Philippine Islands, and six foreign
countries—Brazil, Canada, China, Holland, Korea, and Persia. In addition to those above enumerated, there is an enrollment of 14 non-resident
students pursuing the course leading to the degree of Doctor of Divinity. Catalog on request.
