THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 23, 1928 — Davidson Alumnus Makes Translation Of Book By Noted Dr. Sun Yat-Sen

Dr. Frank Price, ’15, Completes English Translation of Book on Chinese Government

CRITICS PRAISE First Effort at Broadcasting Sun Yat-Sen’s Principles

An English translation of “The Three Principles of Dr. Sun Yat-Sen,” the famous Chinese leader, has just been completed by
Rev. F. W. Price, '15, and is attracting the attention and commanding the admiration of critics throughout America, where the
translation has been distributed by the Chinese Court of Pacific Relations. The book, more than 500 pages in length, gives
China’s aims to the English-reading public for the first time, and is proving valuable in acquainting foreigners with conditions in
war-torn China and the aspirations of the revolting Chinese. Rev. Mr. Price’s translation is the only effort that has been
made to get Dr. Sun Yat-Sen’s governmental doctrines into a form capable of being read understandingly by British and American
citizens. Critics in China have hailed the translation as one capable of bringing the foreign nations into a closer understanding
and more genuine appreciation of the ambitions which are motivating the Chinese in their latest efforts at governmental reform. As
such, the translator, a Davidson graduate, may find himself the friend of the lowly Chinese.

Dr. N. L. Anderson ’85 Delivers Five Lectures For Seminary Students

Rev. Neal L. Anderson, D.D., '85, pastor of the Independent Presbyterian Church of Savannah, Ga., recently visited the Austin Theological
Seminary, Austin, Tex., to deliver a series of lectures and to conduct chapel exercises for a number of mornings. In
addition to his addresses before the seminary student body, Dr. Anderson also preached at the First Southern and University Churches.
Confining his lectures to a discussion of the Shorter Catechism, Dr. Anderson revealed in masterful fashion the rich meaning of
that wonderful statement of church doctrine. Emphasizing the principles of the old faith, and pointing out with power the doctrines
of sin and atonement, he gave his listeners a clear view of the great fundamental truths of religion. He was
received with great enthusiasm at the Austin Seminary, where 11 years ago he served as acting president. His lectures were
five in number and addressed particularly to the young seminary students who are preparing for the ministry.

Personal

J. W. Thompson, '11, who has been special agent for the Equitable Life Insurance Company of the Charlotte office for
several years, has resigned his position with that concern and gone to Hartford, Conn., where he will be with the
Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company. He will spend several months in the Hartford office, training for a managerial position.

A letter has been received from Dr. G. L. Petrie, '59, in which he stated that it was his present
intention to return for the Davidson commencement in May. He said that he remembers J. J. Stringfellow and Rev. T.
Condor, both members of the class of 1860.

Dr. C. G. Vardell, ’88, president of Flora Macdonald College, at Red Springs, recently delivered two addresses in Rocky Mount.

Rev. C. N. Morrison, ’21, has accepted a call to the Glenwood Presbyterian Church, in Greensboro. He was formerly pastor
at Whitsett, N. C., near that city.

News has been received in the past few days of the death of W. A. Crinkley, '96, which occurred August
11, 1926, at his home in Blackstone, Va., and also of the death of A. F. Williams, '64, which occurred
at Wilson, N. C., April 20, 1926. This was the first information the alumni office had received about these two
men.

Three 1926 men are located in Chipley, Fla. S. A. Alford is assistant cashier in the First National Bank; F.
W. Alford is travel-the Seminary, Rev. Walter W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., of Virginia. Walter W. Moore Fellowship, for the Chipley
Stove Company, and R. I. Scarlett is with the civil service there. The latest means of communication coming to the
alumni office is the radiogram. One was received from Rev. Dwight Chalmers, ‘20, of Greensboro, and was received over Station
4DB, operated here at Davidson by H. H. Roseberry, ‘26. Rev. J. N. H. Summerell, D.D., ‘73, of New Bern,
N. C., is going to make an attempt to get members of his class who are now living to return
for their fifty-fifth class reunion at commencement. It is definitely known that six of these men are now living, and
the alumni office, during the next week or two, will endeavor to learn about the others who are listed as
living in the catalogue.

ANNUAL N. C. Y. M. C. A. (Continued from page 6)
Report of committee on state committee's report. Adoption of state budget for 1928. Financial session for considering budgets of national
council-home, foreign and training agencies. Foreign Work, D. L. Probert. Home work and training agencies, Frank S. Smith, J. B.
Huntington. Appointment of state financial commission. 6:30 p.m.—Annual dinner, auspices Winston-Salem Y. M. C. A. Music by high school orchestra.
Special music. 7:30 p.m.—Address, Chas. P. Taft, II. Special music. 8:00—Dr. John Brown. 8:30—Adjournment.

Dilly—“Can you play the piano?”
Dally—“I don’t know—I never tried.” Yale Record.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES
Announcement of the engagement and approaching marriage of William Coleman Harris, ‘25, and Miss Annette Lindsay Wright, of Greensboro, has
just been received at the alumni office. The marriage is to take place in the early spring. Miss Wright, the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Clement Gillespie Wright, is a popular member of the younger social set in Greensboro. She
attended Fassifern School, at Hendersonville, and Converse College, at Spartanburg. Mr. Harris, formerly of Reidsville, is the son of the
late William Coleman Harris and Mrs. Janie Montgomery Harris, of Greensboro. At present, he is making his home in New
York, where he is connected with the Hunter Commission Company. He attended Fishburne Military Academy, and later Davidson College. He
has a wide circle of friends throughout this section.

The Y. M. C. A. cabinet held its regular meeting in the home of Dr. Arbuckle, of the faculty, on
last Sunday evening. Mrs. Arbuckle served delightful refreshments, and in every way the cabinet was graciously treated, making the meeting
a most enjoyable one.

“And how do you account for your long life?” said the visitor to the village centenarian.
“Ter the fact that I ain’t dead yet,” said the old man.—Montreal Star.

She was only a baggageman’s daughter, but she knew all the grips.

White Drug Co. SERVES THE CAMPUS

This is the seventh of a series of advertisements.

Opportunities for post-graduate study available to students of Union Theological Seminary. Five Fellowships of Graduate Study have been permanently established
at Union Seminary. In the order of their founding they are: Moses D. Hoge Fellowship, founded in 1901, by Second
Presbyterian Church of Richmond, Charles D. Larus Fellowship, founded in 1922, by Mrs. Charles D. Larus, Richmond, Va. Thomas Cary
Johnson Fellowship, founded in 1926, by Mr. and Mrs. John H. Reed, Richmond, Va. Walter W. Moore Fellowship, founded in
1926, through a bequest from the late President of Union Theological Seminary. Salem Fellowship, founded in 1927, by the Presbyterian
Church, Salem, Va. Fellowships are awarded by the Faculty to members of the graduating class on the grounds of distinguished
merit and exceptional promise of efficiency in ministerial work. They single out the men who win them and set them
before the view of the whole church as men of whom more than ordinary accuracy and fullness of scholarship may
be expected; also more than ordinary range and fruitfulness of service as ministers.

The explanation is simple enough. Of thirty-one Fellows of Union Theological Seminary, all are living and active in the service
of the church. Included in this list are the President and six other Professors in the Seminary and two Professors
in the General Assembly’s Training School, besides others in places of leadership at home and in the foreign field.

The New Spring Braeburns are here and they're something to talk about $5 $40 $45 MELLO Charlotte, N. C.

Detailed information concerning these Fellowships will be supplied upon request.

Union Theological Seminary
B. R. LACY, Jr., D. D., President
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
