November 29, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN

BEAT THE BLUE DEVILS THURSDAY

CAT TRAX As They Follow the Red and Black By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Two years ago this fall the Wildcats paid their last visit to the campus of fair Duke, and at that time the Red and Black was riding the crest of a victory wave. Fresh from a 10 to 0 defeat of U.N.C., the Cats were in line for the state title and they didn’t lose much time in putting the skids on Jimmy Dehart’s men—20 to 0 was the count. This year it is different. Davidson has experienced a disastrous season, and only the superb fighting of the Wildcat team has given hope to its supporters. And that spirit is Davidson’s hope in Thursday’s game.

There is no question as to the actual strength of the two elevens. Duke is admittedly the superior in manpower. We do not believe, however, that Duke's reserves will cause as much trouble as did Carolina's. The teams will be a little more even in that respect. But that old Wildcat poison, a passing attack, is the main forte of the Blue Devil camp, and unless the Cats show new aptitude in breaking up and intercepting these winged messengers of disaster, the game is likely to be disappointing. We are not worried about Duke's running attack—any team that can hold Carolina in check as the Cats did should be able to stop the Devils. If those passes can be controlled, the Wildcats are in good shape to WIN Thursday, because any time seven or eight men take the field for the last time in their careers there is going to be a scrap. It is our opinion that Sam Buie and Jan Janoskie will need all the tricks in their bag before that game is over. When a Davidson team goes out to fight, anything can happen.

Everybody in this student body ought to get in behind the movement to supply the band with uniforms. This step has been a long time on the way, but we've got to put it over now. Meacham will be “hot stuff” in his little red and black suit, and his other playmates in the band will no longer be timid about parading during the half.

With the season of all-state teams in the offing, we are wondering whether or not Davidson is going to step in for one or two places on the mythical eleven. Certainly the bad record of the team as a whole is going to hurt anybody’s chance of placing. We are sure though, that at least three Wildcats are going to get serious consideration. Brock, Kell, and Riggs McConnell have shown themselves to be as good as the best, and we don’t see how they can be overlooked.

Wildcats Ready To Engage Blue Devils In Season’s Final

Davidson Team in Good Shape for Tomorrow’s Clash in Bull City

HOLIDAY GAME

Duke Favored to Win on Basis of Past Records But Cats Expect to Spring Surprise

Tomorrow will mark the close of the present football season for Davidson. This last game is to be played against the strongest contender for the State championship—Duke University. The 'Cats go to Durham with practically all odds against them. The Duke team outweighs Davidson almost 15 or 20 pounds to the man and is composed of an experienced line and backfield, in fact it will be about the same bunch of Blue Devils that handed the Wildcats a 48 to 7 defeat last season. On the other hand, Davidson's team is composed of only three letter men, having a majority of Sophomores. These facts, taken with the records of the rivals so far this season, point to another Duke victory, it seems.

Duke is the only undefeated or untied member of the Big Five. Earlier in the season they handed Wake Forest a good drubbing and last week nosed out the strong State bunch 14 to 12. The only foes left are Davidson and Carolina, the latter to be played at Chapel Hill on December 8. The Blue Devils’ greatest attainment was to hold Navy to a 6 to 0 score. The Wildcats have lost to Wake Forest, State, and Carolina successively and so it remains for them to beat Duke and upset the whole State championship works. State only won by one touchdown and Carolina came very near not winning at all. This is encouraging to say the least and, with every man on the squad ready for action, it is obvious that there will be a real fight. Injuries have played a large part in Davidson's defeats so far this season, but there are none now to prevent the team of the year starting against Duke. With Fraley, Kell, Black, and Flinn in the backfield, the 'Cats will have one that will come very near proving a match for the Duke backs, Janoski, Adams, Buie, and Murray. The whole bunch, in fact, after a well-deserved rest and several days of final scrimmaging and signal drill will be primed for the Turkey-Day classic.

Bob Warren, of State, and Ray Farris, of Carolina are our unanimous picks so far, and we feel pretty sure that Sam Buie over at Duke will sew up the quarterback post without much trouble.

The whole school turned out last week to witness the game between Concord and Statesville for the right to play in the western high school finals. Both teams, coached by Davidson men, showed plenty of fight and drive, but the spectacular all-around playing of Statesville’s captain, Mills, was the margin of victory for “Doc” DeArmon’s boys. It is pleasing to note that this same Mills is planning to enter Davidson this coming fall. He looks like a young Jack McDowell to us.

WAIT! Buy your Christmas Cards at the Students’ Store A complete line of cards at lowest prices will be displayed in a few days. Also fountain pen sets and other novelties. Wait and look over The Students’ Store IT’S YOURS, WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?

Yearling Play To Tie in Asheville

Wildkittens Threaten Often But Fail to Register

Coach Buck Miles’ Wildkittens were repulsed from the frigid lair of the Asheville High gridders last Friday with no blood having been drawn. Although the hard-plunging frosh were threatening to register throughout the fracas, the contest ended in a nothing to nothing deadlock. At the beginning of the game, things looked easy for the Kitten eleven. Captain Goodson received the opening kick-off on his own fifteen-yard line and ran the ball back for fifty-five yards before he was finally downed on Asheville’s thirty-five-yard stripe. A first down was quickly reeled off and the oval placed within thirteen yards of a touchdown. Here the Asheville forward wall rallied to arrest the drive on three attempts. A pass was attempted on the last down, but was incomplete.over the goal line, and the ball exchanged hands. Asheville kicked well out of danger, but again Goodson careened his way back to the Asheville twenty-seven yard mark. Again the Maroons arose to defend their goal, and no score resulted for the Kittens. Twice more during the tilt, Davidson was well within scoring territory, but on both occasions, failed to register. In the latter portion of the game, Asheville opened an offensive of their own. Their fleet backs, led by the redoubtable Chakles, repeatedly ripped the Kitten line for good gains. On one occasion, they advanced the ball to the Freshmen’s thirty-seven yard line, but failed to gain further. Dick and J. T. Bradshaw played their usual stellar brand of football in the halfback positions of the Wildkittens, while Captain Goodson provided the fans many thrills with his long, spectacular runs. In the Davidson line, Scales at tackle proved a bulwark on the defense. Chakles, the quarterback of the Maroon eleven, and Washington at half, were the bright lights for Asheville.

Basketball Games Carded For Monk’s Varsity Courtmen

Manager Wadsworth Releases New Schedule for Cagemen—First Game January 9

EIGHTEEN CONTESTS

Trip Into Virginia and State Trip Are Long Hops for Team—Play U. N. C. Two Games

The Wildcat basketeers have a rather hard schedule ahead of them this year. Their games begin after the Christmas holidays, with Furman here on the ninth of January, but games with teams in the nearby area will be played before the regular schedule begins after the holidays. The Wildcats will make two trips this season, one into Virginia and the other a state trip. They will meet Guilford, Lynchburg, and Virginia on the Virginia trip, while on the state trip they will meet the different colleges in North Carolina. Manager C. Wadsworth announces the following schedule. Some home games may be played before the regular schedule begins.

Statesville Highs Down Concord 19-6

Tims, Iredell Lads Win Way to Western Finals

Statesville High School and Concord High engaged in their elimination game here last Friday. Some two thousand fans witnessed the game and were treated to a neat exhibition of football. Both teams were well-coached and apparently were primed for the scrap. Led by the dashing tactics of Captain Mills, the Statesville Warriors annexed a 19-6 victory and the right to meet Greensboro for the Western title. Mills was the outstanding star for Statesville. He was a triple-threat man, being able to punt, pass, and skirt around the end with remarkable consistency. He could always be depended upon to gain needed yards. His ability to return punts was a very important element in Statesville’s victory. During the closing minutes, Mills returned a punt for a touchdown only to be called back because his own teammate was clipping from behind. He supplied the greatest thrill of the day when he leaped high into the air and threw a bullet-like pass into the waiting arms of his teammate. Cart was another great mainstay for Statesville. His ability to get through the Concord line netted many first downs for his team. Deaton and Utley were the stars for Concord.

This game gives Statesville the right to meet Greensboro in the Western finals. This game will be played in Salisbury.

Gastonia Golfers Trim Wildcat Team

Local Artists Lose by Score 12 to 5

Davidson's Golfers lost a brilliantly played match to the Gastonia Country Club Team last Thursday, by the score of 12 to 5. The day was not at all ideal for golf, but was very cold and bleak winds swept the course throughout the game. Miller of Gastonia was the low score man of the day with a card of 78. The fact that Miller played a par on the first nine was perhaps the most interesting feature of the game. The scoring was as follows:

Gastonia - Davidson
Miller - Mills (1)
Gray - Pepper (3)
Alexander - Comelatte (1)
Gray - Hunt (0)

Foursomes:
Miller and Gray (2)
Mills and Pepper (1)
Alexander and Gray (3)
Hutaff and Hunt (0)

Final Score:
Gastonia 12 - Davidson 3

How Did You Get That Way?

Nov. 28—Questionnaires are being sent out by Harvard University to 15,000 leading business men in all parts of the United States to attempt to ascertain the reasons for their success. The inquiry seeks to obtain first-hand information regarding the social classes from which business leaders are recruited, the extent of their training and education, and the circumstances surrounding their early business careers. From the results of their inquiry, the authors hope to be able to speak with greater authority on such disputed questions as comparative opportunities for advancement in business in the various social classes and whether the tendency in modern business is toward a wider diffusion or closer restriction of opportunities. If the present investigation is successful, it will be followed by a supplementary study of similar nature for the professions.

When a Feller Needs a Friend

By BRIGGS

AW, Gee. Pop, WHY DON'T YOU SMOKE OLD GOLDS? THERE ISN'T A COUGH IN A CARLOAD. OLD GOLDS, The Smoother and Better Cigarette...not a cough in a carload.

Mercy SAKES! WHY EUSTACE WANTS TO BE LITTERIN’ UP THE PLACE WITH THEM THINGS ANYWAY, I DON'T KNOW.

OH George! WHAT A SHAME! AND EUSTACE HAD JUST SPENT TWO HOURS SORTING THEM ALL OUT.