THREE great essentials to happiness are something to do, something to love and something to hope for. —Cotton

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

WILDCATS vs. TERRIERS SATURDAY

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 11, 1928 No. 4

HOME-COMING DAY PLANNED AS EVENT OF MUCH INTEREST

Alumni Council Will Arrange Program—Many Alumni Expected Back

D. C. MEETS U. N. C. NOV. 17

Feature Game of Year Expected to Draw Great Numbers for Home-Coming Day

The plans for Home-Coming Day, November 17, the date of the Carolina game, are as yet incomplete. The Alumni Council, which is to meet October 19, will arrange the complete program. At this meeting, the speakers for the occasion will be selected. There will be a slight change in the speaking arrangement this year; at the morning ceremonies, there will probably be only one speaker instead of several, as was the case last year. The usual drill of the R. O. T. C. unit will be a feature of the morning program; immediately following this phase of the program, the speaking will take place. Last year, for the first time, a luncheon was served by the Alumni Association. This plan was very successful and shall be repeated this year. This meal is served cafeteria style. This year the luncheon will be served at 1:00 p.m. The price will be the same as last year, fifty cents. Serving this meal is a great aid to the alumni as it enables them to come directly to Davidson instead of stopping en route for dinner. There will be no speeches at the luncheon. According to reports, the number of alumni to return will be the largest yet. If the Wildcats continue to play the same type of football they have demonstrated thus far, it is a certainty that all previous numbers will be surpassed. When the Wildcats meet the Carolina team on November 17, the paramount event shall have been reached. This is the climax of home-coming day, and many Davidson supporters expect to hear the toll of the college bell when this struggle has ended. The High School Band from Lenoir will play for this occasion. This band is the joint guest of the Alumni and Athletic Association. This organization is well known throughout the state, having won the state contest last year held for such organizations. They played for the Virginia-Carolina game last year.

GAMMON DELIVERS ABLE TALK AT “Y”

“A Man and Success,” Theme of Charlotte Pastor’s Message

Rev. Edgar A. Gammon, well-known and popular pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, was the speaker at the “Y” vespers Sunday evening. Dr. Gammon chose for his theme, “A Man and Success,” and in following out this topic stressed the life of Nehemiah as an example of real success in ancient Jewish times. Nehemiah was a wealthy and influential man—a man well established in life. As the cup-bearer of Artaxerxes, the king, he held a position of responsibility and of unquestioned trust. This position of honor and dignity, to which it had been Nehemiah’s fortune to attain, held also a deep responsibility to Nehemiah's people, the Jews, then living in Persia. Jerusalem at that time was a “national junk heap” and with the gradual return of the Jews to their original stronghold came also the need of restoring the city to its former state of magnificence and power in the ancient world and the urgent need of repairing and rebuilding the walls. Upon the shoulders of some willing leader of the Jewish people, this difficult task must devolve. Nehemiah felt that God had appointed him for this task and so he assumed the great responsibility and, as the Bible records show, accomplished the tremendous piece of work quickly, and with the highest degree of success. A leader, less able than Nehemiah, would have shifted the burden, would have perhaps offered financial assistance, but, faced with the need of personal sacrifice and endeavor, would have shrugged his shoulders and let the matter rest. Those others would not have given up cup-bearerships. Nehemiah did and Nehemiah was a success. Dr. Gammon pointed out that a man is not judged by how well he does the comparatively easy and enjoyable tasks that (Continued on page 3)

TO CONDUCT MEETING

Dr. Taliaferro (Tolly) Thompson, chair of Religious Education, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., who will conduct the Y. M. C. A. evangelistic services this fall.

Dr. Thompson to Conduct Services Opening Oct. 21

Y. M.C. A. Evangelistic Services to be Continued Through Friday, October 26—Two Days Longer Than Usual

Dr. W. Taliaferro Thompson, head of the Department of Religious Education in Union Theological Seminary, will come to Davidson on Sunday, October 21, to inaugurate a series of reconsecration services. He will speak at the Davidson Presbyterian Church at both the morning and evening services and will conduct the devotional for the Y. M. C. A. vesper group. Under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A., meetings will be held each morning at chapel during the following week with a special service each night in Shearer Hall. Dr. Thompson will conduct each of these meetings which will extend through Friday night. In securing Dr. “Tolly” Thompson, the Y. M. C. A. brings to Davidson one of its most distinguished alumni, and a preeminent churchman of the South. As director of Religious Education at Union Seminary, he is in a position to influence vitally the religious thought of this part of the country. As a man of forceful personality, he has made a strong appeal to young men of college age, and has received a warm welcome on each of his visits to Davidson. Dr. Thompson was born in Charleston, S.C., where his father was a pastor of one of the churches there. Before coming to Davidson, he lived for a time in Washington, D. C., where he began to prepare himself for entrance in the college here. He came to the town of Davidson in 1900 and entered the Davidson High School to complete his entrance requirements for college work. In 1902 he entered the freshman class and became a member of the class of ‘05. Davidson College has seen few combinations of leadership and versatile ability that “Tolly” Thompson was soon to show. In his sophomore year, he was elected secretary of the Eumanean Literary Society and was made marshal by that organization. He served on the Y. M. C. A. cabinet as a member of the social committee. Taliaferro Thompson then began to come to the front with such rapidity and in such varied fields that it was almost startling. In his last year, his responsibilities were almost a taskmaster, covering the tremendous field of activities they did. The Eumanean Literary Society made him president in his last year, a position of great importance in Davidson of 1905. In the commencement exercises of the literary societies, he was chosen as chief marshal. His literary talents were not limited to the debating society. He was for two years editor of Quips and Cranks and served for one year on the board of editors of the Davidson Magazine. He was also a member of the library committee, who had complete charge of the school library. His popularity with his fellow classmates is shown in the fact that he was elected president of his senior class, as distinct an honor then as it is now. He was a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and took a part in all of its activities. Dr. Thompson in his student days was an athlete. He played for two years on the varsity baseball squad. Dr. Thompson will (Continued on page 3)

Dr. J. S. Wilson, University of Va., Will Lecture Here Oct. 29 and 30

Dr. James Southall Wilson, of the University of Virginia, will be the first of the series of public lectures arranged from time to time during the year by the faculty committee on lectures. While here October 29 and 30, he will deliver three lectures. The first lecture will be given in English 4 on Edgar Allen Poe. This will be held at 12:35 p.m. Monday. The lecture will probably be held in one of the larger classrooms to accommodate more than the regular class. Monday evening at 7:30 p.m., in Shearer Hall, he will deliver a public lecture to students, faculty, and townspeople. His subject at that time will be “The Changing English Novel.” The following day he will lecture to English 5 on some aspect of composition. English 5 meets in Professor Erwin’s classroom on the third floor of Chambers the last period before lunch, Tuesday, 12:35. Dr. Wilson, besides being the author of several other books, is editor of the collection of Poe’s Tales, which is used in the study of Poe in English 4. He has, since 1919, been the Edgar Allen Poe professor of English in the University of Virginia. He has also been editor of the “Virginia Quarterly Review” since 1925. According to “Who's Who of America,” in which he has been listed for several years, Dr. Wilson took his A.B. degree at William and Mary, his M.A. at the University of Virginia, and his Ph.D. at Princeton. He is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and of Phi Beta Kappa, honorary fraternity.

FIVE MEN SEND IN APPLICATIONS FOR RHODES POSITIONS

Two Seniors and Three Alumni Apply for Scholarships

SCHOLARS CHOSEN DEC. 8

Executive Committee Meets Today to Designate Representatives of College to Various States

In response to the call for applicants for the Rhodes Scholarship, five men, whose identity cannot be disclosed, have already turned in their applications. Of this number, two are seniors and three are alumni. These are all applying for North Carolina, although a candidate may apply for the state in which he resides or for the one in which he has attended college for two years. Today is the latest an application can be made as the executive committee meets to decide which three will represent Davidson against other colleges of the state. There will probably be more applicants from Virginia and South Carolina.by October 13 and on December 8 institutional selections are to be made. One applicant will be chosen to represent each state. This interval is to give the candidates time for application and the committee time to send in the references. On this date, all the candidates must appear before the state committee for the final selection. Each state sends two scholars every three years, rotating in order to give this apportionment. Since the scholarship was established in 1904, five men from Davidson have been sent. Two of these were representatives of South Carolina, two of North Carolina, and one of Arkansas. The last one of these was from South Carolina and was selected three years ago. Only three men can be chosen to represent a college of Davidson's size. According to Dr. Vowles, more interest is being shown in the scholarship this year than at any other time for many years.

Honorary Fraternities Extend Bids to Thirty Men of Upper Classes

Phi Beta Kappa Bids About October 15th

Fall annual Phi Beta Kappa bids will be extended about the 15th of this month. This will be the first of two bid days, which are held semi-annually by the honorary scholastic fraternity. At this time, men holding particularly high scholastic averages will be elected. Whether the full quota of men will be elected at this time is yet undecided. The remainder of eligible seniors will be chosen sometime during the spring, probably on Honorary Fraternity bid day. A national honorary fraternity recognizing excellence in scholarship, Phi Beta Kappa, with Omicron Delta Kappa, stands at the top among honorary fraternities. The primary requirement for membership is that a man be among the highest 10 percent in the senior class in scholastic standing. Furthermore, he must have shown an interest in intellectual activities on the campus and have shown qualities of leadership and morality. Recently, the Triennial Council met at Delaware, Ohio, on the campus of Wesleyan University. It was attended by delegates from 113 chapters in the United States. Officers of the Davidson chapter are: Prof. W. W. Wood, president, and Dr. J. W. McConnell, secretary and treasurer. Sixteen other members of the faculty belong to the chapter. Last year, eight seniors were bid.

Debate With Emory Scheduled for April

The Forensic Council announced today that a contract had been signed with Emory University for a debate to be held at Davidson, April 11 (tentative), 1929. Emory has been a regular opponent of Davidson debaters for the past few seasons. Last season, Emory was defeated on her home grounds; the Atlanta school defeated Davidson here the year before.

Capt. Weems

Entire Cadet Corps of West Point Pass in Review for Former Davidson Commandant

Capt. Geo. H. Weems, former commandant of the R. O. T. C. Unit at Davidson, was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross last Saturday at the United States Military Academy at West Point. The ceremony was held just preceding the football game between Army and Southern Methodist University. The entire corps of cadets witnessed the award, and immediately following the decoration, passed in review before Captain Weems and Major General W. R. Smith, who officiated during the program. Besides the honor of being thus recognized for valiant service, Captain Weems had the further distinction and privilege of being the first officer to be decorated for bravery before the entire West Point cadet corps since 1902. On the latter occasion, President Roosevelt personally decorated a soldier for bravery. 

War Department officials at Washington issued a citation which stated that Captain Weems was thus being honored “for extraordinary heroism at Vaux, France, July 1-2, 1918. In command of the machine gun company of the 9th infantry, he personally took charge of his advanced position, and manned captured enemy machine guns on an exposed flank of the battalion. By his coolness and courage in fearlessly exposing himself to the enemy fire in order that he might personally direct the fire of his guns, he succeeded in breaking down the counterattack of the enemy on the exposed flank of the battalion.” Captain Weems spent four years at Davidson with the local military unit and is largely responsible for the remarkable changes which took place during that time. The R. O. T. C. battalion was awarded distinguished rating during the last two years of Captain Weems’ period of service here. This may be said to be a direct tribute to Captain Weems, since the honor came to Davidson over other schools in the same district which are strictly military in nature. Captain Weems is now on duty at West Point as a tactical officer. He graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1917, served in the World War, and was an instructor at a French military school for six months. During the war, he was awarded the French Croix de Guerre, the Italian Order of the Crown, and two other War Department decorations.

Capt. Pritchett Will Speak at “Y” Vespers

It will be of interest to Davidsonians to know that Norton G. Pritchett, newly acquired athletic director and track coach, will be the chief speaker at the Y. M. C. A. vespers this coming Sunday evening. Captain Pritchett has had a number of years of contact with young men and the “Y” leaders promise one of the best talks of the year. Capt. Norton G. Pritchett received his early training at Louisville Training School, owned and conducted by his father, and his college work was completed at the University of Tennessee. In addition to this, he spent two summers at the University of Wisconsin and Harvard, respectively, taking special work at both institutions. For four years, he was athletic director and commandant at Louisville Training School. During the World War, he served two years as athletic director in the army, being stationed in the St. Mihiel and Argonne sectors. Six summer seasons were spent as commandant at Camp Greenbrier, which is located at Alderson, West Virginia. He served two years as athletic director and head of the English department at Sewanee University, and the last six years in the capacity of athletic director and English instructor at Woodberry Forest before coming here. To quote one of Davidson's officials: “Davidson is indeed fortunate to be able to secure Captain Pritchett for the position he now holds.”

Five of Eleven Lodges Bid on Several Men

Day Designated by Council

Bidding a total of 30 men, five of the 11 honorary fraternities of Davidson extended invitations to prospective members Tuesday morning. Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership lodge; Phi Beta Kappa, national scholastic fraternity; and Scabbard and Blade, military organization, were allowed by the Honorary Fraternity Council to choose their own bid day, which will be accompanied by due ceremonies. The International Relations Club met Tuesday night and extended invitations to a number of men to submit papers on topics of international interest, new members to be chosen from these men on a competitive basis. Omega Phi Alpha, local philosophical organization, and the Biology Club, having a large membership, will not bid neophytes until spring. Eta Sigma Phi, classic fraternity, has not yet been recognized by the Honorary Council as the chapter has not yet been formally installed. The following is a list of the bids mailed Tuesday morning:

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, mother chapter of the national honorary fraternity of chemistry of the same name, bid the following men: D. P. Anderson, R. Z. Query, J. A. Moore, T. M. Northrup, L. C. Roberts, A. S. Moffett, W. H. Flythe, R. E. Hall.

Delta Pi Kappa, local journalistic fraternity, extended bids to the following men: V. A. Milton, J. L. Ely, J. R. Graham, P. B. Fry, D. P. Anderson, J. R. Covington, and W. B. McQueen.

Alpha Phi, national forensic lodge, bid four men: F. D. Hill, E. McGuire, T. E. McConnell, and W. E. Riggs.

Sigma Pi Sigma, national physics organization, bid C. A. Ritchie, M. L. Carr, J. B. Moriarty, J. M. Ulmer, E. H. McCall, J. W. Robinson, and G. A. Price.

Sigma Upsilon, literary fraternity, bid R. E. Jarrett, A. N. Brown, and C. J. Albright.

WOOD WILL HEAD

Gilmour, Graduate Manager of College Athletics Receives State Office

Prof. W. W. Wood, who for the past several years has held the position of graduate manager of athletics at Davidson College, was, at a recent meeting of the executive committee of the North Carolina inter-collegiate athletic conference, elected president of that body. Professor Wood is a favorite among the students at Davidson. His courses in mathematics are among the most popular in that department as evidenced by the number of students who apply for courses under him. Professor Wood succeeded Dr. J. M. Douglas as graduate manager of athletics some two years ago, and since then has done much toward placing Davidson to the front by arranging meets with more outstanding opponents than formerly. Professor Wood, in assuming his new position as president of the association, succeeds A. L. Hook, of the Elon College faculty. The other officers elected at the meeting were: S. J. Martin, of Lenoir-Rhyne College, as vice-president of the association, and R. N. Wilson, of Duke University, who is to continue to serve as secretary until a new officer is appointed.

AMERICAN LEGION SPONSORS CONTEST

Definite news has been received concerning the State Oratorical Contest. The contest will be held at Raleigh, November 5, sponsored by the American Legion. The subject, “The Duty of the Voter,” has been chosen in behalf of the Legion’s Citizenship work. The decision as to who will represent Davidson must be made before October 13, as entrance applications must be in by that time.