ecg

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1928

Freshmen Firing First Rounds On Long Range

First Week, Only Preliminary Work

This week in accordance with the regular R. O. T. C. schedule, the freshmen began their .30 calibre firing on the 150-yard rifle range. A large group of some 60 or 70 men went out Monday afternoon while the other groups are reporting at the range during the rest of the week.

The firing this week, 10 rounds per man, is merely for the purpose of practice in the use of the rifles, the scores not counting on the semester average. Next week, each man will be required to make a minimum score of 43 out of a possible 50, in order to qualify; failure to do so will mean continual firing until the required score is made.

The third and final week of range firing will be a contest to determine the best shot in the freshman class, and it is thought it will certainly cause some keen competition for the coveted honor.

All the range firing is under the supervision of Lieutenant Beckett, who has charge of all freshmen this year. Men are required to report at the range promptly at 2:40 p.m. on the days scheduled and must remain until 5:00. During this time men are assigned to coaching or pit work, according to the need, in addition to their regular firing. A telephone system enables the firers to communicate with the pit-men.

Thus far, most of those who went out to the range expecting something really “dangerous” have characterized the whole thing as rather “tame,” while others expecting a “crip,” came back with sore shoulders and complaining of the “terrible” recoil.

NINE MEN SELECTED

(Continued from page 1)

festivities will prove highly enjoyable to both old men and neophytes. As is customary, the program will be followed by a feed to be provided by the members.

At the same meeting, election of officers for the coming year will take place. Retiring executives are W. H. Bailey, president; J. L. Ely, vice-president, and J. R. Graham, secretary and treasurer.

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks

Sheaffer Pens and Pencils Seal Stationery Pennants and Pillows Wildcat Belts Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Fresh Country Vegetables

STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES

Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders

BARNETT AND COMPANY

DAVIDSON, N. C.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see

M. P. Crawford

QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES

Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N.C.

ANNUAL ATHLETIC NIGHT

(Continued from page 1)

Preceding Dr. Gammon’s address was the award of gold footballs to members of the 1927 Wildcat eleven. The award was made by Mr. I. P. Graham, prominent alumnus of Cooleemee, N. C. Service certificates were presented by Mr. J. A. Cannon, Davidson graduate and leading Concord businessman.

Dr. J. M. McConnell; and wrestling letters by Prof. J. P. Williams. Mr. Hugh A. Query, editor of the Gastonia Daily Gazette, and loyal alumnus, participated in the presentation of athletic certificates. Freshman and varsity athletes each stepped into the limelight on a program which brought new interest to the annual Athletic Night celebration. Music by the college orchestra added zest to the proceedings. W. Olin Nesbitt, football veteran and president of the athletic council, presided.

Presentation of the football used in the Davidson-Florida game was made by Dick Grey, 1927 Wildcat captain and backfield star, with appropriate remarks.

ALLIGATOR DEBATERS

Basketball certificates were awarded by several new points and summed up the argument of the negative. The main points presented by the negative were, (1) that the present policy of the United States was justified by international law; (2) that the affirmative had pictured the existing conditions much more seriously than they really were, interference by force of arms only being used as a last resort, when all other measures had failed; (3) that the Monroe Doctrine obligates us to protect European property and lives; that it is a part of the American policy and is recognized as such by European countries; (4) that the clause in the query stating “except after formal declaration of war” made the affirmative present declaration of war as their plan, and it was pointed out that the evils of this plan were clearer than the other, considerable time being necessary for the declaration of war, and this virtually meaning that the government refused to protect the property of its citizens in foreign countries.

Much interest was shown in the question by both the debaters and the audience. This is the last debate of the year that will be held in Davidson.

CAMPUS HONOR FRATS

members later in the week, and these additional names will be published at a later date.

Davidson, N. C. says:

“The rapid growth in the popularity of OLD GOLD Cigarettes among the students is remarkable. Never in my experience have I seen a new cigarette catch on so quickly with the boys on the campus.”

Karl W. Mosley Davidson Book & Stationery Co.

© P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

One of the leading tobacconists in Davidson, N. C.