THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1928

BOB KELL ELECTED
(Continued from page 1)

from the rising Sophomore class for the office of secretary and treasurer of the student body. They were “Hub” Covington, Pete Glidewell, and Dean Rusk. Glidewell was dropped on the first ballot and on the second ballot between Covington and Rusk, Covington was elected secretary and treasurer of the student body. There were no nominations from the floor in any of the elections. A week ago Tuesday morning the Student Council nominations were announced, and with no additions, the ballots were presented to the student body on Wednesday, Pritchett being the only man elected that morning, and on Thursday morning the remainder of the officers were elected. All of the elections were close except that for the election of first vice-president.

Bob Kell is from Pascagoula, Mississippi. His first triumph came when he was elected president of the Sophomore class, then in his Junior year, he was elected to the Student Council, where he had held a place as president of the Soph class, and now his election to the presidency of the student body gives him a seat on that honorable council for the third straight year. Kell made his “D” in track last year and is a vice-president of the Athletic Association. Besides track, Kell is also out for football and has gotten into nearly all of the games this past year. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, a varsity debater, and a member of the Delta Theta Chi social fraternity.

Carl Pritchett is captain-elect of the basketball team and is a resident of Reidsville, North Carolina. He is president of the Sophomore class, also a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, and a varsity debater. Tom Brohard is vice-president of the present Sophomore class, and a member of the “D” club, having made his varsity letter in wrestling this season; he is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta national social fraternity, and comes from Grafton, West Virginia. Covington is vice-president of the Fresh class, comes from Red Springs, North Carolina, and while here has made his “DC” in two sports, football and wrestling.

SECRET OF SUCCESS
(Continued from page 1)

office the sunremunerative jobs and these serve as a splendid chance for the young lawyer to become acquainted with his profession and his possible future clients, who may later have very remunerative jobs to offer.”

“What is your chance to leave a mark on the world by leaving it better when you leave than before you began?” Mr. Williams asked, “Work lies up against every problem that faces humanity and the lawyer can better the world a little, as he goes along, because his work is to solve the problems that face humanity.” He pointed out the fact that almost all of the political leaders of the nation are lawyers, due to the fact that a lawyer is qualified to handle social and legislative problems, because in his profession he has to cope with these same problems.

“Be careful to dedicate your life to something you consider worthy,” he pleaded. “The lawyers of this country have dedicated their lives to truth and justice. The profession of law in this country presents one of the greatest opportunities to invest a life.” In showing that the life of a lawyer must be a strenuous one, Mr. Williams said that many people who have been prosperous have been unhappy, while others who have been unprosperous have been happy simply because they took advantage of their opportunities. “Law lays before the lawyer many opportunities, more opportunities than anything else in the country; but in order to be happy the lawyer must take advantage of all these opportunities.”

Mr. Williams remarked that it often develops that a person, who has only average mentality and equipment, outstrips the brilliant ones by industry and hard work. The noted attorney is an alumnus of Davidson and first man in the class of ’05. While he was at Davidson he displayed great talent as a speaker, taking many forensic medals and honors. Besides being the chief attorney for the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Mr. Williams is also one of the vice-presidents of the same company.

TUESDAY, Davidson Theatre
MONDAY, MARCH 26
Dressed to Kill. Mary Astor and Edmund Lowe
Blue Danube with Leatrice Joy
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28
The Play Girl with Madge Bellamy
THURSDAY, MARCH 29
Legion of the Condemned
FRIDAY, MARCH 30
Two Arabian Knights
SATURDAY, MARCH 31
Wyoming, with Tim McCoy

Officers
J. M. McConnell, Pres.
H. B. Elliott, V.-Pres.
C. H. Hamilton, Sec.-Tr.
A. Currie, Attorney

Incorporated 1907 — Shares in force Dec. 31, 1953. Number of patrons, 5 white 108, colored 9.

ANNUAL STATEMENT
Davidson B. & L. Association For 1927
Authorized Capital, $1,000,000
Earnings for the year .06%

Income
Interest collected ______ $ 4,790.10
Fees collected _______ 212.05
$ 5,002.15

Expenses
Interest paid ______ $ 39.50
Salaries ______ 490.00
Advertising and printing 37.25
General ______ 88.00
$ 654.75

Assets
Mortgage Loans ______ $ 77,135.00
Stock Loans ______ 4,009.00
Fixtures ______ 29.00
$ 81,173.00

Liabilities
Installment Stock ______ $ 53,784.00
Full Paid Stock ______ 25,000.00
Adjustment Account ______ 511.35
Undivided Profits ______ 5,995.49
$ 85,290.84

A. N. BROWN, EDITOR
(Continued from page 1)

Brown is well fitted to have charge of the paper and its policies for the coming year. In the fall of 1925, he entered Davidson with a good foundation in journalism resulting from active participation in prep school publications in his early training in the Lone Star State. He was for two years an active member of the Reporters’ Club, and its secretary during the last year. He is secretary of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity. Besides his work on The Davidsonian, Brown has taken an active interest in class and student activities. The paper will continue under its present editorship until April 19th, when Brown will take charge and appoint his staff for the coming year.

FIVE ARE CHOSEN
(Continued from page 1)

speech had been lost. The judges for the contest were: Reid Graham, Henry Powell, and Frank Hall. The final contest will be held near the latter part of May, it is thought. The Forensic Council will decide some time in the near future the exact date. Those who took part besides the winners are as follows: R. E. Witt, J. H. Taylor, and J. A. Jones.PRITCHETT AND GRADY - (Continued from page 1)

George Washington. After a very heated discussion, a vote of the audience gave victory to the University by a vote of 69 to 45. This vote represented points rather than the number of persons present, as there was an audience of over 400 in attendance. The Davidson team had a well-defined and logically worked-out outline which they used in all debates during the trip. The affirmative side was upheld by the following arguments: That the policy of armed intervention leads to ill will on the part of weaker nations and to economic exploitation on the part of the stronger. Thus, the way is prepared for war and political imperialism. Furthermore, the American investor should and will invest without the assurance of armed intervention. The use of the World Court to settle difficulties was urged as the concluding part of the affirmative argument. On the negative, the case was summed up as follows: There is no relationship between the present policy and imperialism. The present policy is satisfactory and should not be abandoned. The Monroe Doctrine, with its present interpretation, demands that we maintain our present policy. The last negative speaker devoted much of his time to the arguments advanced by the affirmative.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.
J. M. McConnell
J. J. Withers
H. B. Elliott
C. S. Goodrum
T. E. Lothery
C. H. Hamilton

Last series matured

Pritchett and Grady report that they had a fine trip and were well received at the institutions visited. The University of Pittsburgh was especially cordial in its entertainment of the team and gave them a real example of Northern hospitality.

HUNDREDS CHARMED (Continued from page 1)

Violin Solo — Rondo (M. Kriesler): Miss Mary Lou Kirby.
Song of India (Rimsky-Korsakov); The Dancing Doll (Poldini-Chappin): Sub: Miss Simms and Miss Hutchins.
Sleep, Darling Child (Boret); Requiem (Homer); I Passed By Your Window (Brake); The Great Awakening (Kramer); Venetian Love Song (Nevin): Violin Obligato, Miss Kirby.
Wake, Miss Lindy (Warner).

Part 2
The Oriental Chorus (Miss Dupre): Misses Adams, Woodside, Herman, Anderson, Sims, Price.
Silver Moon—Misses Forbes and Hutchins, Misses Gilland, Holliday, Glen, Watson, Cumings, Boyter, Wiseman, Carrington.
The Salt and Pepper Chorus—Misses Woodside, Anderson, Sims, Burton, Adams, Morgan.
Harlequin and Columbine—Misses Smith and Wright.
“Good-Night Chorus”—Misses Adams, Sims, Roberts, Forbes, Dupre, Burton, Holliday, Buckalew, Gilland.
Cachuca and Finale from the “Gondoliers” (Sullivan): Chorus.
Miss Sallie Ange, accompanist.

Mr. Glenn Crowder Staples, director of the club, provided one of the real “hits” of the evening when he sang three baritone solos during the intermission. Mr. Staples was at his best in that well-known and popular composition, “On the Road to Mandalay,” and the applause which greeted him at the close of his numbers was thunderous.

LOCAL R. O. T. C. (Continued from page 1)

The battalion review, with Colonel Merriam as the reviewing officer. The review will be followed by an inspection of the cadets. Guns, uniforms, and general set-up of the unit will have a heavy bearing upon the ultimate result of the inspection. When the inspection is over, the students’ part in the day’s work will have been completed. Following the exercises, a tour will be made of the rifle ranges, drill fields, armory and equipment, and other parts of the campus. This detailed inspection will continue through Thursday noon, at which time the officers will leave Davidson. Colonel Merriam and Major McCaughey will be entertained by the officers stationed at Davidson and by the Davidson faculty. In order that the morning field exercises may have sufficient time and yet not extend into the Easter holidays, the executive committee has been asked to shorten the morning classes on Wednesday. Although Captain Daugherty and his assistants have worked hard during the past several months in developing a unit here, the officers will have to rely entirely upon the students on inspection day. Bad weather has interfered severely with intensive training planned this spring, making it doubly important that each man put all his energy into making the day a success. Davidson’s “esprit de corps,” a thing that has called for considerable comment heretofore, will be called upon to the limit during the strain of inspection. Army and cadet officers are confident that strict attention to duty and enthusiastic cooperation from the basic course men will bring the coveted honor back to Davidson another year. Students will be expected to have their uniforms in the best possible shape. The basic course men will be given an opportunity to clean their rifles before inspection, while advanced course men will have their instruments ready.

VESPERS (Continued from page 1)

Not to follow the above standard, but to think of their success in terms of service to humanity. His second standard, and that which he would that all men should follow, was the “Standard of Jesus Christ.” Our Savior was not counted as a man of success by the world in that day and time, but now everyone names Him as the greatest being that ever trod on mortal soil. Jesus Christ, the supreme emblem of service, is the standard of every successful man of God. Christ considered the spiritual and not the material side of man’s life. “What should it profit a man, if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul?” Christ even forgot the needs of His own body, in order to minister to man’s spiritual soul. Mac Richards illustrated his points with several beautiful quotations from Poe, Byron, Gladstone, and Lanier. These following words brought to a close this inspiring message: “Men of Davidson! Decide upon your work; allot yourselves your task and go to it, bearing the standard of Christ, and remember that success depends on spiritual well-doing.”

HENRY POWELL

Planned for Junior Speaking, mark a revival of interest in oratory upon the campus. A slack of the interest in such activities has been clearly noticeable during the past few years, Charlotte, N. C. banking needs.

Government.
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

The Commercial National Bank
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your 4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit. Trust Department under supervision of United States. Make us your Executor. Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.

OFFICERS
FULLER HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier
Founded 1874
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier

ORTHOPHONIC
The New VICTROLA
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY