COMMON sense in an uncommon degree is what the world calls wisdom. —Coleridge.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
WRITE A FEATURE OR AN EDITORIAL
WIN A CASH PRIZE

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 13, 1928 No. 13

LARGE NUMBER OF MEN MAKE HONOR ROLL IN 1927-28
Largest Honor Roll in Past Several Years
Juniors Most Numerous

Forty-three students are on the Honor Roll for last year (1927-28) recently released by the registrar. The requirement for the Honor Roll is a scholastic average of 95 per cent. This number exceeds by two the list of honor men for the first semester. The Junior class ('29) of last year had the largest number, with nineteen making the Honor Roll. The Senior class, ’28, came second with fifteen, the Sophomore, ’30, third with six, and the Freshmen last with three. The averages were not released on account of a recent ruling of the faculty.

The men on the Roll are listed below:

Senior Class (1928)
Akers, J., Lincolnton, N. C.
Arbuckle, H., Davidson, N. C.
Bradford, W., Charlotte, N. C.
Burgiss, A., Greer, S. C.
Davidson, C., Chester, S. C.
Dickson, B., Gastonia, N. C.
Dillard, T., Greensboro, N. C.
Howard, D. H., Jr., Lynchburg, Va.
Lothery, T. E., Davidson, N. C.
MacAlister, J. S., Jr., Greensboro, N. C.
MacRae, C. F., Maxton, N. C.
Murchison, J. M., Bunkie, La.
Richards, E. H., Owingsville, Ky.
Stephenson, R. M., Covington, Ga.
Welborn, J. D., Pelzer, S. C.

Junior Class (1929)
Albright, C. J., Richmond, Va.
Brown, S. Y., Atlanta, Ga.
Davidson, H. S., Jr., Henderson, Tex.
Dumas, W. L., Jr., Talladega, Ala.
Fry, G. A., Blacksburg, S. C.
Gilmour, M. T., Wilmington, N. C.
Graham, J. R., Hamlet, N. C.
Hall, F., Wilmington, N. C.
Hayes, R. B., Hudson, N. C.
Hill, T. E., Richmond, Va.
Hill, W. E., Jr., Richmond, Va.
Kane, R. R., Atlanta, Ga.
Kirkland, L. D., Jr., Durham, N. C.
Martin, D. F., Jr., Flemington, Ga.
MacConnell, E. R., Davidson, N. C.
Moriarty, J. B., Ripley, Tenn.
Moye, E. P., Columbus, Ga.
Pritchett, W. K., Atlanta, Ga.
Weaver, W. R., Jr., Hickory, N. C.

Sophomore Class (1930)
Brown, F. R., Jr., Greensboro, N. C.
Edelman, A. T., Goldsboro, N. C.
Knox, B. L., Liberty, N. C.
MacGuire, W. B., Franklin, N. C.
Marsh, E. E., Jr., Marshville, N. C.
Miller, F. D., Surgoinsville, Tenn.

Freshman Class (1931)
Preston, J. F., Soochun, China.
Ragin, W. C., Jr., Wilmington, N. C.
Wiley, S. S., Salisbury, N. C.

I. R. C. Extends Bids To Four of Twelve Men Writing Papers
Dr. J. M. McConnell Makes Address at Last Meeting

Four new members were chosen by the International Relations Club at the last meeting on December 6. These men, who are W. B. McGuire, D. F. Cannon, S. Y. Brown, and G. A. Fry, were elected from a number of men who had been selected to submit papers last fall. These new members will be initiated at the next meeting.

The International Relations Club recently secured a number of volumes and pamphlets on South and Central American countries. These will shortly be placed in the Library for use of the students, as they contain much valuable information, especially on present-day topics.

At the last meeting, Dr. J. M. McConnell made a talk to the club on the Kellogg Peace Pact, and the Anglo-French Secret Alliance. Dr. McConnell gave the following facts concerning these topics:

The Kellogg Peace Pact is an agreement among the nations of the world to outlaw war. This pact has been signed by many of the leading nations and is being seriously considered by several other important countries, including the United States. The adoption of this treaty will mark a distinct step towards international peace. The situation at present is more promising than it has been any time within the recent past.

The Anglo-French Alliance (Continued on page 3)

Drama Is Presented With Combined Cast At Y. M. C. A. Vespers
Queens’ Y. W. C. A. Aids in Missionary Play Presented Sunday

Representatives of the Y. W. C. A. of Queens College and the Y. M. C. A. of Davidson combined their histrionic abilities last Sunday evening to present to Davidson men the best vesper program offered by the Y. M. C. A. this year. Students filled Shearer Hall to capacity to see them dramatize “The Color Line,” a one-act playlet studying the problem of the Chinese Christian student in the American college. The revolt of Chinese students against the social ostracism facing them in America was vividly shown, a revolt ending oftentimes in the renouncement of Christianity and a return to the pagan worships of China. The unfavorable impressions coming from American indifference to Christian ideals of personal relationships were clearly outlined.

Those who presented the play handled their parts in an excellent manner, some of which were very difficult for an amateur. Miss Nancy Vincent, taking the part of Barbara McKean, a missionary’s daughter, and Fred Poag, as Dr. Lawson, a college president, were exceptionally good. Miss Elizabeth White as Dr. Lawson's secretary, Miss Loula Beatty, as Wanda, a college flapper, Alan Frew, as Stanley, and Zeb Long, as Chun, a Chinese student, also took part in the performance. Zeb Long's interpretations of the Chinese student, a highly emotional character and very difficult for an amateur, was very fine and it was through this character that the vital lessons of the play were driven home.

This vesper service culminated a week of special attention directed toward the Chinese field, with emphasis on the part played by Dr. Frank Price, whose work the Y. M. C. A. voted to sponsor this year.

Davidson Glee Club Engages in State Contest With Duke and Guilford

It was at a late hour Friday night that the Glee Club bus drew up in front of Watts Dormitory for the last stop on the Club's fall tour, which lasted for five days. The tour made a wide circuit, taking in several towns in eastern North Carolina where Davidson Glee Club had never appeared before.

Beginning the trip Monday, December 3, when the Glee Club left soon after dinner for Troy, where they were to give a concert that night. Due to sickness, and other reasons, five members of the Club were unable to make the trip, and so one bus and a Chevrolet sedan were all that was needed for transportation. Immediately after the matinee given at Flora MacDonald Tuesday, the Club left for Lumberton where they gave a concert that night. Wednesday they gave a concert at Elizabethtown, and journeyed to Durham Thursday for the State Contest.

In the State Contest, which was held Thursday night, the only other colleges competing were Duke and Guilford. Davidson’s Club was so small, its ranks having been greatly depleted by the flu, that it was only by special permission that it was allowed to enter the contest. While Duke and Guilford each entered twenty-nine picked men in the Contest, Davidson entered just twenty. Each Club sang the Contest song—F. S. Smith’s arrangement of Dvorak's “Songs My Mother Taught Me,” their college song, and a song of their own choosing. Davidson’s Club was no mean opponent. They sang as one man for they showed an almost absolute precision. This they backed up with a skillful use of contrast in dynamics and tempo. Guilford’s Club revealed a tone quality of a superior type and tempered this with very good expression. Under its Student Director, P. B. Fry, Davidson’s Club, probably because of its small number, found it very difficult to get the effects desired. Though the contrasts in tempo were attained with the usual ease, they seemed less able than usual to bring out the contrasts in dynamics. After (Continued on page 4)

“Rainbow Revue” Given By Junior Class at Shearer
Sixteen of Statesville’s Fairest to Be in Cast of Future Entertainment of Year to Be Given Saturday Night

After two weeks of steady practice, the Juniors are nearly ready for their presentation Saturday night. The performance will begin at seven o'clock, running for an hour and a half. Reserved seats went on sale at the drug store yesterday, and indications are that a large crowd will be on hand when the curtain goes up Saturday night.

The combined efforts of the talent of the Class of ‘30, sixteen of Statesville’s fairest young ladies, and the Davidson College Orchestra, under the direction of Owen Geer, will be featured in the program. From the opening number, “The Vagabond Song” until the Grand Finale by the entire company, the entertainment will be fast and furious. There will be many specialty acts of various nature, blackface comedy, and a fine group of selections by the famous Gastonia Male Quartette. Katherine Neely is expected to prove the hit of the bill with her “Blues” act. It will be a colorful and attractive program, and one which will be long remembered in Davidson.

Finishing touches will be put on tonight and tomorrow by the members of the cast, and everything will be in shape for a gala time Saturday evening. The house party guests will probably swell the attendance to larger proportions than usual.

Members of the Junior Class taking part in “The Rainbow Revue" are N. C. Hodgin, Ed. Roberson, “Slick” Lawther, Murray Christian, Allen Wilson, Neal McGeachy, Jeb Russell, and E. B. Murray. Christian, Allen Wilson, Neal McGeachy, Jeb Russell, and E. B. Peterson, Bill Franklin, Phil Padgett, E. Z. Dubose, and George Pardington of the Sophomore and Freshman classes will also have parts. As stated above, the Jazz orchestra will be on hand in full force. This college talent, augmented by the Statesville talent, will make a complete company of some thirty-five people.

Ranks of Davidson Students Depleted By Epidemic of Flu
College Facilities Taxed to Limit in Caring For Sick

Vacant classroom and chapel seats were mute evidence of the large number of students who reported to the college infirmary last week to be treated for the too-well-known flu epidemic that now prevails in Davidson. With the infirmary full, a number confined to their rooms, a few sent home, and as high as ninety reporting to the infirmary, Dr. McConnell and Mrs. Robson, assisted by an extra nurse, found themselves taxed to capacity last week. Dr. McConnell reports that week before last there was an increase in the number of students who reported to the infirmary. 

STUDENT REVIEWS LAST CHAMELEON
Unfavorable Opinion of Poetry Issue of Magazine Held by Student Critic

(Editor's Note: This review should be considered as the opinion of one critic and not that of the Davidsonian staff but rather whose contribution it is.)

As a number, the December issue of the Chameleon is a complete wash-out. For the simple reason that there is only one article in it worthy of reference as poetry (Mr. Ogden’s work excepted.) The poetry of Mr. Hall's "Song of the Pioneer" is a complete wash-out. It is, perhaps, the most ambitious work that the Chameleon has ever published. We admire the dignity of "Song of"The Pioneer" in contrast with the silly, insipid love lyrics heretofore dominant. Poetry In a special poetry number, it is decidedly unfortunate that the majority of the verse should be below the usually low standard of Chameleon poetry. It seems obvious that Mr. McQueen's thirteen poems, six of which are "Moon-Shadows," are typical of their author, and to us at least, are without a redeeming quality. His cinquain, "Victory," is in perfect cinquain form with well-chosen words and no apparent thought whatever. We would suggest that Mr. McQueen familiarize himself with Adelaide Crapsey, who is the author of ideal cinquains. "Jazz, Mother of Moderns" is an accurate description of Paul Whiteman’s orchestra, and for that reason interesting. Its expressions, for the most part, are well chosen, and the lyric sung by the vocalist is particularly well done.

Hortense, Maud, or Matty; take your choice), "The Incense-Burner," and "Feminine" are doggerel and rather trashy doggerel at that. Hall’s Contribution Frank Hall's "Quatrain to E—," (Emaline, Eliza, or Elmira; take your choice again) is very good except for the title. If the Chameleon publishes any more verse dedicated to the Vast Unknown—well, if it does! In "Reverie" Mr. Hall has imitated Poe consciously and effectively. We had hoped that in at least one issue Mr. Hall would be able to tear himself away from the gnarled oaks, the oysters, the clams, the mackerel, and the salty tang of the sea. "The Old Fisherman," however, is discouraging. We haven’t read it. Clifton’s "Retrospect" is acceptable but altogether ordinary. McCutchan J. Wilson McCutchan, eminent authority on the Orient, particularly Oriental crockery and wedding feasts, goes in for a vivid little underworld skit. His characters, Antoine Pierre Lombette, J. Lansing Montgomery, and James Phineas Lattimer, we feel sure, have come to us direct from the pages of Flynn’s Weekly where they have (Continued on page 4)

H. B. Arbuckle, Jr. lina, left vacant by D. H. Howard, 1927, Honored: As Rhodes Candidate-at-Large '27, now assistant in Chemistry at Davidson, was appointed as candidate-at-large by the committee for choice of the Rhodes Scholar. The infirmary with light colds and a steady increase climaxed last week. Most affected have only light cases but report that it is far from desirable, even in this mild form. A typical case was that of a freshman who first felt the effects on Sunday night. A head bursting with pain, some fever, cold feeling, and in a general weakened condition, he set out for the infirmary Monday morning only to receive instructions to go to bed because the infirmary was full. Rest and care produced improvement, and he soon was out again a little worse for the experience. The few that went home hint at various reasons other than medicine contributing to their improvement.

The man awarded the scholarship from that state is Armistead Loyd Boothe, University of Virginia, University of Pennsylvania. T. B. Hill and W. E. applied from Virginia. Daniel I. Huggins, Jr., president of the student body of the University of North Carolina, of Marion, N.C., won the scholarship from McColgan. Also, Davidson in this M. T. Gilmore, E. R. McConnell representing Davidson and applicants from other schools of the state, Robert Emmet Houston, Jr., state over of Yale won the scholarship for South Carolina. G. A. Fry represented Davidson in that state. As a candidate-at-large, Howard is eligible to apply to the national committee to fill any place that any state may not have worthy applicants or by failure of appointees to attend. Howard won a close second in the race for the appointment.

MINISTERIAL BAND RALLIES MEMBERS As a result of a recent drive for better attendance, and shifting of the hour of meeting from 2:30 to 1:30, the officers of the Ministerial Band were gratified with the largest attendance shown at the band during the past three years. Over fifty members of the 81 ministerial students were present at this meeting. It was decided that officers be elected and installed for next semester at the meeting next Sunday afternoon. This meeting will then be turned over to the discussion of duties to be performed by the band. Prof. Fleagle spoke at the rally meeting Sunday, advancing suggestions as to some of the things the Band could have as an objective towards which to work. He suggested that the Ministerial band could have as its comprehensive end, the improvement of the spiritual life of the campus. As the largest single organization save the Y. M. C. A., the influence of the members can be very great. One of the first things that could be done towards attaining this end is the encouragement of the students to attend the mid-week prayer service or to establish such a meeting among the students. Another way in which the Band could be of service was that the members could try to influence men who had not yet decided on their life work to enter the ministry. “The census of students in the registrar’s office shows that 142 students have not yet decided upon their life work,” said the speaker. He suggested that the Band should try to bring these men into the ministry by discussing it with them and showing them the advantage of it. Professor Fleagle suggested in closing that a study of the problems of the (Continued on page 4)

Dr. C. R. Harding to Speak in New York At the meeting of the American Philological Association to be held in New York during the Christmas holidays, Dr. C. R. Harding of the Davidson faculty will make an address. The subject of Harding’s address will be “A Review in Criticism of Eduard Norden’s Agnostos Theoy.” This meeting of the American Philological Association will be in conjunction with the Archaeological Institute of America, the College Art Association of America, the Linguistic Society of America. The meeting to be held jointly by the above societies will be held from December 27th to December 29th, inclusive. Dr. Harding has long been recognized as an authority on the subject of the classics, and has delivered several addresses in the past few years to language groups in this section.

Christmas Cantata to be Given Sunday Musical Program to Supersede Regular Sunday Evening Service Next Sunday evening, at the hour usually occupied by the Sunday evening service, the Davidson Presbyterian Church will be the scene of a Christmas cantata, composed of thirty-five voices. These voices are selected from the talent of Davidson, outside of the college. The name of this cantata is The World's Redeemer, a special Christmas number, written by Fred B. Holton. The production is sponsored by the Woman’s Music Club of Davidson, under the direction of Mrs. Geo. B. Watts. The talent of this club will play a large part in the event. As yet no specific announcement has been made regarding the personnel. Professor E. J. Cullum is assisting Mrs. Watts.

NO MORE ’TILL NEXT YEAR! With this issue, The Davidsonian closes shop until next year—January 10, 1929—on account of the cessation of college work at noon on next Thursday just preceding the regular time for issuance of the publication. All staff members, reporters, and freshmen and sophomore assistants are reminded that the next copy will be assembled on Monday night, January 7th.

COMPLETE DOPE IS GIVEN ON STUDENT BODY AND PARENTS 603 Students Are Enrolled For Year’s Work BUSINESS IS FAVORITE Only One of 75 Aspires to Follow Father’s Occupation of Farming From statistics released by F. W. Hengeveld, college registrar, it is found that there are now 603 students enrolled for the school term 1928-29. These figures were compiled from blanks filled in by the students at the beginning of the term. It is of interest to note some of the statistics of students and their parents and to compare them. There are 75 parents engaged in farming, while only one student has chosen this type of work for life. Two hundred thirty-three parents followed some line of business and only 108 students intend to go into business. For 56 fathers that are ministers, there are 81 ministerial students. There are only 21 lawyers among the parents while 58 students are preparing for this line of work. Six parents are engineers and there are 35 engineering students. With only 2 parents in newspaper work, seven students are studying journalism. The important ones are as follows: educational work 47 students and 16 parents; chemistry 6 students and four parents; mission work, six students and three parents; Christian work 2 students and 1 parent; and for dentistry 2 students and 3 parents. There is one student in each of the following: interior decorating, mechanics, forestry, architecture, natural science, plant breeding, army work, aviation, and diplomacy. There are twelve parents in railroad work and twelve in manufacturing, 11 retired, 10 laborers, 4 clerks, 3 in government work, 3 in state and town office work, 2 in the army, and 1 barber. The majority of the student body hails from the Tar Heel state. South Carolina is next. The distribution of students throughout 21 states and three foreign lands is: North Carolina 356, South Carolina 58, Georgia 43, Tennessee 27, West Virginia 20, Alabama 19, Virginia 17, Florida 13, Mississippi 12, Texas 8, Arkansas 4, Kentucky 4, Oklahoma 2, New York 4, Missouri 3, Pennsylvania 3, Maryland 2, New Jersey 2, Louisiana 1, Connecticut 1, District of Columbia 1, Brazil 1, China 1, Korea 1. The denominations represented are as follows: Presbyterian 474, Methodist 62, Baptist 22, Episcopal 16, A. R. P. 8, Christian 3, Moravian 2, Lutheran 2, Friends 1, Catholic 1; no denomination given. The following is a list of the degrees anticipated and the number of students working toward each degree: A. B. 1, 29; A. B. 2, 222; B. S. 1, 154; B. S. 2, 182; M. A. 1; Pre-Medical students 7; Special Students, 8.

“Y” Vesper Services Will Feature Music Last Service Before Holidays to be Given Over to Christmas Program The “Y" Vespers will consist almost entirely of music on Sunday, December 16. Every part of the service will be musical except for the responsive readings. This meeting will be the Christmas program of the Y. M. C. A. The Glee Club, Faculty, and townspeople will go together to compose the program. Several members of the Faculty and a number of the Davidson residents will assist the College musicians in their vocal selections. All of the more popular Yuletide hymns will be sung. Camper O'Neal, “Y” Secretary, states that one of the most interesting and unusual parts of the Vespers will be the reading of the Scriptures to music. Naturally, the selection will be one concerning the birth of Christ. No definite program has been worked out but one of the most interesting meetings of the year has been planned, and everyone is urged to attend. This will be the last meeting before the holidays and also the final one in the year 1928.