HAVE a heart that never hardens, and a temper that never tires, and a touch that never hurts.—Dickens.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

O. D. K. TAP-DAY TUESDAY MORNING CHAPEL

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 25, 1928 No. 6

‘OUR FATHER’ WAS TOLLY THOMPSON’S MESSAGE MONDAY
Inspiring Talk Given in Shearer Hall Monday Night
TEXT IN MATTHEW 6:9

Definition of Religion Given by Dr. Thompson in Monday Morning Address

“Our Father” was the subject of the message delivered by Dr. Thompson Monday evening in Shearer Hall. Matthew 6:9, which is the opening petition in the Lord’s Prayer, was the speaker’s text. The fact that we say “Our Father” as we kneel in prayer is striking evidence of the solidarity of the human family and the interdependence of its members. We are not experimenting with our lives as in separate test tubes in the laboratory of life, but we are working our fate out in common.

A man, especially a young man, often feels that his life is his own to live, and that if he is willing to take the penalty for its mismanagement, it will fall on him alone. But he forgets the loved ones looking to him and idealizing him; he cannot fail without hurting them. All of this great human family is living for better or for worse; if we fall, regardless of our humble position on campus or in the village, someone will be influenced by it. We may even exert this influence unconsciously as an English writer has said, “No man can pass another on the street without making a mark on the soul of that man.” “I am part of all that I have met” expresses a like idea; your contribution has a direct influence in shaping the course of civilization. The man who thinks he can live alone is a fool, blind to the fate of his life.

“As we look up into the face of ‘Our Father’ and find there the same love and mercy which Christ showed to men, we realize that truly here is the Father of the great human family. You can't live your life alone; without Him you can't succeed.”

“Being rightly related to all persons and to God through Jesus Christ,” was the definition of religion given by Dr. Thompson in a chapel address Monday morning. In discussing man’s relation to God, the speaker decried those who belittle the value of thought in comparison with acts. The thought of the German people as directed by their educational leaders was ripened into the acts of the World War with all its suffering. Does it not matter then how that people think about God? What do we really know about God? Are we like many soldiers in the World War who, though church members, declared that they didn’t know God as revealed in the person of Jesus Christ?

Then, a proper relation toward God includes a right feeling toward Him. A man may have a cold intellectual conception of God which does not rouse him to admiration and love, but could that be called religion? A man’s faith, hope and love are the feelings upon which Paul bases a major portion of his Christian belief. Finally, a man must go further than thought and feeling; he must will aright in relation to God. The imperatives of Jesus are given in a straightforward manner to the wills of men: Are we to yield our wills to His?

(Continued on page 3)

E. A. POE LECTURES

Dr. James S. Wilson, Edgar Allan Poe professor of English at the University of Virginia, will deliver the first of three scheduled lectures on Poe and his life in one of the large classrooms in Chambers Monday. His first lecture will come at 12:35. The subject for this first lecture will be “The Life and Works of Edgar Allan Poe.” The second of these lectures will be given on Monday night in Shearer Hall, the time being 7:30. Townspeople as well as members of the student body are invited to hear this lecture. The subject for his talk will be “The Changing English Novel.” The third and last lecture will be on some aspect of style, the exact subject has not been announced yet. This discussion will be delivered Tuesday morning in Professor Erwin’s classroom at 12:35.

Receive Highest College Honor

J. R. GRAHAM
R. R. KANE
M. T. GILMOUR
W. K. PRITCHETT
Accept Phi Beta Kappa in annual Bid Day.
J. B. MORIARTY
W. L. DUMAS

Eta Sigma Phis Are Formally Installed
Members of Chapter at Winthrop Officiate at Installation

A chapter of Eta Sigma Phi, on Tuesday night, October 23, was established in Davidson College, by members of that order, from the chapter at Winthrop College. Though there are 17 men who were to have been initiated at the installation of the chapter, two men, prominent members of the order, were absent: Rusk, and Dr. Harding.

Three ladies, two from the student body and one on the faculty of Winthrop, officiated at the ceremonies. The member of the faculty is Dr. Martin, the head of the Latin and Greek department. The young ladies were, Miss Mary Ethel Owen, who is the president of the Winthrop chapter; and Miss Dorothy Gilwreath, Secretary and Treasurer of the same chapter. Lest it seem strange that the installation of a chapter in a boys’ college be performed by representatives from a girls’ chapter, it must be explained that the Winthrop chapter is the nearest one of the order. There is also a chapter in the University of South Carolina. But these two and the newly installed one, are the only chapters in this section of the South.

The old officers serving when the organization was only the Classical Club, will continue to serve; filling their former duties, though answering to new names. In Iowa City, Iowa the petition of the Classical Club was last spring granted. The Classical Club had been in existence for only a year, when it decided to petition this fraternity which has some thirty-odd chapters in the country.

STATE GLEE CLUB CONTEST PLANNED

Paul Fry, representing the Davidson Glee Club, and Professor Cullum, director of the Glee Club, left Davidson Tuesday to attend the committee meeting of the North Carolina Association, which meeting is being held in Durham, at the Washington Duke Hotel. At this meeting of the committee the final arrangements for the state contest will be made. This annual event will in all probability be held in Raleigh this year, in the first week of December. There will be two representatives at this committee meeting, from the following colleges: University of North Carolina, North Carolina State, Davidson, Wake Forest, and Guilford. These colleges will be the principal contenders in the state contest. Only the director and the president of the various clubs are to attend the committee meeting.

At the intercollegiate meet this year the following numbers will be rendered by each of the clubs: “Songs My Mother Taught Me.” This song has been decided upon for the one to be sung in the national contest. The second number will be any selection that the local club may choose. The third number to be sung, is to be any typical college song. The winners of the state contests, held everywhere at about the same time, will attend the Southern Sectional contest, to be held in Greenville, S. C., some time in March. From this contest, the winning club will attend the national contest held in New York City, some time in April.

Executive Committee to Control Affairs of Three Musical Organizations Here

At a meeting of the Glee Club Friday night a constitution and by-laws for the club, which had been presented by the president at a previous meeting, was voted upon and unanimously passed. This constitution recognizes the Glee Club Association which was formed recently by the officers of the two orchestras and the Glee Club. The three organizations will thus be under one control, the executive committee of the association, and will be enabled to work together even more smoothly than ever before.

Through the efforts of Professor Cullum, the club will have much better facilities for practice than previously. Heretofore the Glee Club has practiced in Shearer Hall, but a large room on the first floor of Eu Hall has been fitted out for the club and will be ready for use as soon as the installation of the electric fixtures is completed. This will make a splendid club room and will also be much more suitable for the rehearsals than Shearer Hall. The quartet for the club this year has been selected and will consist of: First tenor, J. E. Bradley; second tenor, C. B. Peterson; baritone, E. Z. DuBose; bass, C. K. Poole. Professor Cullum stated that the songs for the club this year would be even richer in harmony and contrasts than last year's numbers. The repertoire of the club will include the following pieces:

Break Forth, O Beauteous Night—Bach.
O Bona Jesu—Palestrina.
God Is My Guide—Schubert.
Annie Laurie—Geibel.
Sylvia—Speaks.
Little Cabin of Dreams—Downing.

(Continued on page 3)

Constitution for Glee Club Recently Adopted

Wireless Report of Game Is Successful

Davidson's gymnasium was a scene of intense interest Saturday afternoon as the Davidson-Citadel game was received by radio. The play-by-play reception over ether was sponsored by the Physics Department of the College. The set belonging to that department was used for the Davidson station, and was operated by S. L. McCarty, prominent member of the senior class. The Charleston station was hastily erected in the stadium at Citadel, with a transmitter belonging to the Charlotte Radio Club and a receiver belonging to Station 4 A A M, Charleston. This end was operated by R. B. Hayes, of the senior class, as game reporter; Edward Bettis, of the freshman class, as sender, and T. W. Zeigler, operator of Station 4A A M, controlling the receiver. Station 4CQ, Charleston (Hayes, Bettis and Zeigler) was ready for operation but a few minutes before the kick-off, while 4DB (McCarty) had been trying since 10 a.m. to make connections. Charleston was finally heard just after the signal QST, a signal for attention from every station, was sent. On account of a delinquent receiving set at Charleston and a poorly equipped sending set at Davidson, the only words received from McCarty were: “4DB, go ahead.” At the end of the half, thinking the messages were not being received, Charleston asked 4ADF, at Hendersonville, to relay the words. 4ADF tried to get Davidson, but on account of McCarty's listening for Charleston this proved unsuccessful. Failure to give players’ names making the runs was due to a code system devised by the operators, that would enable the players’ names to be given in two letters.

(Continued)On page 3, applicants for the Rhodes Scholarship have been made by the faculty scholarship committee. A total of seven were chosen. Three men of the alumni or undergraduates applying from any one state may be chosen to take the Rhodes Scholarship examination. One man from the representatives of all the colleges of the state is chosen on the basis of this examination to be the recipient of the scholarship. The men chosen by Davidson to take the examination are:

(Those resident in North Carolina): H. B. Arbuckle, M. T. Gilmour, E. McConnell.
(Those resident in Virginia): D. H. Howard, W. L. McColgan, T. E. Hill.
(Resident in South Carolina): G. Fry.

These men were selected from alumni and seven undergraduates who applied. In order to be eligible for this appointment, a man must have been proficient in scholarship and athletics, and must have taken part in extra-curricular activities during his college career. Dr. G. R. Vowles, of the faculty committee, states that more interest has been shown in the scholarship this year than at any time for many years past. The state examination is to be given in Raleigh on December 8. At that time the representatives of North Carolina will be chosen.

Program For Press Convention Planned
Students to Conduct Discussion Groups Covering Five Fields of College Journalism

Although the program for the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association convention, which is to be held in Davidson on November 1, 2, and 3, is not yet fully complete, the greater part of it is as follows: The registration of the delegates will take place on Thursday afternoon. This is to be followed by a banquet in Maxwell-Chambers Hotel, which banquet is being sponsored by the Charlotte Engraving Company. Dr. D. W. Daniels, of Clemson College, will be present and take an active part in the banquet. After the banquet on Thursday night, there is to be a motion picture party with the compliments of the Stough Brothers. On Friday morning there is to be the first business session of the convention. The Observer Printing Company is to act as the host at a luncheon given at the Myers Park Country Club, at noon, Friday, November 2, at which time Hugh Murrill, of the Queen City Printing Company, will speak. This luncheon is to be followed by a tea given at Queens College. The last event on Friday will probably be the dinner and dance at the Charlotte Hotel by the Queen City Printing Company. With the Bierman Engraving Company in charge, the transportation to and from Charlotte will be handled by a fleet of automobiles, furnished by several of the printing and engraving firms of Charlotte. Immediately after the dance there may be an opportunity for any interested to go through the Charlotte Observer, while the press is in operation. The final business session of the convention will be held on Saturday morning. One of the important features of the whole convention will be the discussion groups which are to be held during the Saturday morning business session. There are to be five discussion groups, covering the fields of the Business Managers, Managing Editors, Annual Editors, Newspaper Editors, and the Magazines.

(Continued on page 3)

Announcement of the appointment of Davidson Men Make Bid For Rhodes Scholarship

TAP DAY SET ON TUESDAY, OCT. 30

The dignified and impressive Tap Day program of the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, will be solemnized on Tuesday morning, October 30, in the presence of the entire student body. It has been the custom of the local chapter for the past few years to hold two bid days each session of college, one in the fall and the other in the spring. At this time members of the senior class who have distinguished themselves in some phase of college activities are invited to membership in O. D. K. The president of the local organization customarily presides over the exercises. A faculty member of O. D. K. will probably make a short speech preceding the bidding. The bidding itself is performed in a very ceremonious manner. Some member of the organization comes from the stage and with a tap upon the shoulder invites the newly bid member to follow him to the stage, where he is welcomed by the officers. Tap Day has grown to be a time of great interest and importance at the college. The ceremony used by this circle is not common to the entire organization but has been inaugurated by several other circles. Omicron Delta Kappa was organized at Washington and Lee College in 1914 and has had such success in so short a time that it is now a national organization and comprises about 34 circles. The Delta Circle of Davidson College was founded in 1917, only three years after O. D. K. came into existence. The present members of Omicron Delta Kappa are A. N. Brown, J. R. Covington, M. T. Gilmour, J. W. Melton, M. M. King, and R. E. Kell, together with 11 faculty members and Coaches Younger and Mattox. This enrollment will be increased by about five or six men from the senior class on Bid Day. Shortly after Tap Day the public and private initiations will be held. The circle always provides excellent speakers for the public initiation and the students and townspeople are invited to this function.

Thompson Delivers Speech at Vespers

That “God is not mocked, whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap,” is substantiated and upheld by modern psychology, according to Dr. Tolly Thompson in his address Sunday night at the “Y” vespers. Summoning evidence from a wide range of poets, novelists, philosophers, and psychologists, the speaker showed that, in the parlance of the street, “a man can't win” through a life of immorality. The law of man may be transgressed with impunity often, but there is a deeper law wrought in the very fiber of our beings that cannot be escaped. Our own natures are under the law of cause and effect. Every slightest stroke of virtue or of vice leaves never so slight a scar. People see things from a different point of view as determined by their past experience. Old memories of certain circumstances exert such influences on a person that they are powerless to cease thinking about them or to resist their impetus to action. “Not what might have been,” cries Byron in support of the above facts. The tomorrow of sin is a little worse than today, for sin, the most divisive thing in the world, erects a barrier between God and us. To know that we have deteriorated and are not worthy of the praise and esteem of others, is not this Hell? “I have to live with myself forever,” declared Churchill.

SCHOLASTIC FRAT CHOOSES SIX MEN FOR MEMBERSHIP

Unusual Number for Fall Elections Are Bid
INITIATION IN DECEMBER

Gilmour, Graham, Dumas, Kane, Pritchett, and Moriarity, of Senior Class Receive Bids

The Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, North Carolina Gamma, has announced the extension of bids to six members of the senior class who have exhibited unusual scholastic excellence during the three past years. The six men receiving bids are M. T. Gilmour, of Wilmington; J. R. Graham, of Hamlet; Lawrence Dumas, of Talladega; R. R. Kane, of Atlanta; W. K. Pritchett, of Atlanta; and J. B. Moriarity, of Ripley, Tennessee. Initiation ceremonials have been set for December, the exact time and program not yet ready for announcement. Phi Beta Kappa is perhaps the best known and most highly respected of the honorary college fraternities, and has become firmly embedded in American college life with its traditions and ideals of high scholastic attainment. This honorary fraternity was founded in 1776 at William and Mary College and is acknowledged as the oldest organization of its type. At the present time 107 colleges throughout the United States have chapters of Phi Beta Kappa. In honoring these men, the Davidson chapter has selected six leaders of able character. Monroe T. Gilmour is president of the senior class, member of the International Relations Club, Court of Control, and Philanthropic Literary Society. He is also active in journalistic fields, being a member of the annual staff and of the Reporters’ Club. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. J. Reid Graham is a member of the Eumanean Literary Society and has served as intercollegiate and inter-class debater. In his freshman year he was awarded the Alumni medal for reaching the highest average in his class. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon honorary fraternity, the Classical Club, and the International Relations Club. Lawrence Dumas, a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, is business manager of the 1929 Quips and Cranks, member of the Debating Team, and is a member of Eumanean Literary Society. He plays scrub football and is on the varsity track squad. He is also a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon honorary fraternity. R. R. Kane not only has distinguished himself as a consistent honor roll student but is recognized as a very popular member of his class. He has held class offices, is a candidate for the varsity football squad, and is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. W. K. Pritchett has distinguished himself as a speaker, writer, and student. He is president of the Honorary Fraternity Council, member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, Delta Pi Kappa, and International Relations Club. He was winner of the freshman (Continued on page 3)

Lights In Dormitory Will Not Be Cut Off
Plan to be Tried by College Authorities as Experiment

In a recent meeting of the faculty committee of the college, it was decided that the lights in the dormitories be left on all night. It has been the custom in the past, during a long period of years, to cut off the lights in the dormitories shortly after 12 o'clock; consequently, the new plan appears in the form of an innovation. This action is to be permanent, provided that the students do not abuse the privilege. The lights are not left on to accommodate those who like to “bull” until 11 or 12 o'clock and then get in an hour or two of belated studying; but rather to accommodate the occasional man who has extra work to do, to provide light by which the late comer can get to bed, and to aid anyone who may become sick during the night. It was decided to leave the lights on only after careful consideration on the part of the faculty committee, and it is understood that the privilege will be promptly taken away unless used in the right way.