4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1928

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '19
"The Livest Wire on the Hill"
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles must be received by 12:00 m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

AUBREY N. BROWN, JR. .......... Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD ................ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
F. D. McILWAINE ............... Managing Editor
C. M. CRAWFORD ............... Managing Editor
R. S. HARRIS ................... Managing Editor
Z. V. T. MORRIS .................. News Editor
V. A. MILTON ................... News Editor
O. R. SIMPSON ................. Associate Editor
M. K. PRITCHETT ............... Associate Editor
MORIARTY ..................... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY ............... Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON ................... Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL .................. Assistant Business Manager
P. W. GARRISON ................ Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON ................. Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS ................... Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE ................. Solicitor
E. H. McCALL ................... Solicitor

REPORTERS' CLUB
L. ELY .......................... President
S. W. McDERMID ................ Vice-President
B. S. HERRING ................. Secretary-Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN
V. MIDDLETON
D. P. ANDERSON
T. NUNAN
S. R. COKER
J. PRESTON
C. H. DUBOSE
C. RAGIN
A. FREEMAN
D. RUSK
P. B. FRY
C. A. SISSON
R. GRAHAM
D. T. STOKES
W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
S. H. LONG
S. S. LEY
P. McBRYDE
DEAN RUSK ................. N. C. C. P. Reporter
SAM WILEY ................. C. C. P. Reporter

EDITORIAL

TO MOTHER

If I could return to my mother
A gift for her kindness to me,
For sacrifice, love, and devotion,
For the things she has taught me to be,
For the pictures which hang on memory's wall
Which she paints with motherly care,
For the heavenly chords of love and life
Which she sang that I might hear.
I'd ask the stars for their twinkle,
The birds for their happy, sweet song,
I'd gather the fragrance and blush of the rose
And the first bright tints of the dawn,
I'd ask a smile from an angel,
A strain from the choir above.
I'd tie them up with affection's cords
And present them to her with my love.
—Nancy Hood Reed.

REFUTATION

Appearing in the Open Forum column of this issue is a communication from the president of the Senior Class which contains certain charges as to the honesty and integrity of this journal which can hardly go unanswered. Whatever his opinion may be as to the "Concerning Gifts" editorial, anyone may see that there are two sides to the question which he himself terms "controversial." The proposal did not pass with the unanimous vote of the Senior Class and so a number of others seem to be of like opinion as the writer. Mr. Withers makes the very serious charge that the editor did not adhere to fact in his editorial, but if that be the case, one of the leading members of his class, who was present at all meetings at which the matter was discussed and was closely connected with those who favored the movement, did not adhere to fact in his statement of the situation. This is not an attempt to dodge responsibility but merely to state the source of information. The writer of the letter does not cite an instance in which there was untruth but merely makes the statement that such existed. We fail to see it.

As to the charges concerning the news article—that it contained "certain statements disguised as facts"—we challenge anyone to prove that any statement in that story is a disguised fact. That "the alternate plan of using the money for the class gift for the purpose of aiding students already in school, had been refused by the college authorities" is a true statement, whatever the reason may have been. It is at this point that Mr. Withers says there is untruth in the article. It was explained in the editorial previously mentioned that the reason for the refusal of the gift was due to "college regulations as to the control of the awarding of scholarships." That is certainly all that was stated in the news story. One may place any further interpretation on this statement that may be wished but that is all that was said. Further, that "the class voted to use the money already in their treasury, some hundred and twenty dollars, for the purpose of the maintenance of the Wildcats" and not to make a class gift is true.

Whatever of untruth there might be in the article would of a certainty have to be read into it, for there is no statement, suggested or implied, that can be so interpreted. As to the authority for the contents of the news story, the reporter who wrote the article did not see Mr. Withers at any time because he deemed it possible, and entirely probable, that any member of the class who attended the meeting would be informed sufficiently to give the necessary information. This reporter was not the one referred to in the letter as another received the assignment. The account of the meeting was obtained from one senior who attended the meeting and, in order that the article might be verified, the reporter submitted the story in its final form to another member of the same class who pronounced it as fact in every particular.

Concerning "the expressed wishes of others," the writer cannot see any justification for the request that the story should have been withheld. The reporter's assignment called for an account of the refusal of the Senior gift and nothing more, and why Mr. Withers could not make this statement is not evident. For, in his own letter, he says in one instance that he feared lest a "misunderstanding would arise and an impression of discord between the Seniors and the College Administration would be created." He also states that "both parties concerned in this issue were in perfect harmony." There seems to be little that would justify his refusal to release the facts to the reporter who first saw him. The story was news and therefore of interest to the student body; it was somewhat out of the ordinary for Davidson happenings and therefore of greater interest, and, as this journal tries to be a newspaper, however difficult that may be, it was thought best to publish the fact that the Senior gift had not been accepted by the Administration.

The foregoing explanation obviates any further discussion of the charges which are made by the writer of the letter and it shows that The Davidsonian does have a "regard for the wishes of others" when it can be shown that there is some fair reason back of the request; that this paper does have a "respect for harmony between students and Administration," because there is no possible interpretation of the situation that would not show, in Mr. Withers' own words, the "perfect harmony" between the two parties, and therefore, in printing a truthful account of the affair this paper did not violate, in any manner, any code of justice or truth. Finally, as the truth of the story as it was printed cannot be denied in any particular, it is evident that no great error, as is alleged, was made by this paper in presenting to its readers a matter of fact and a matter of interest before it was so aged that its news value would have been absolutely nil.

SCHOLARSHIPS

In discussion among a number of men concerning the assistance or lack of assistance of athletes recently, statements were made as facts by two different groups that were in direct opposition to each other. One statement was that Davidson College gives scholarships to men simply because of their ability as athletes. The other affirmation was that because a man participates in any form of athletics, he is utterly unable to obtain a scholarship or other financial assistance from the College. It was said further, that even though a man had been awarded a scholarship when he was not a candidate for any team, this scholarship was withdrawn when he became a participant in some College sport.

These declarations seemed so out of accord with the policy of this College that the writer determined to investigate the situation and to obtain a statement from the Administration as to its attitude in regard to this matter.

The following statement is from F. W. Hengeveld, registrar: "The College has a limited number of scholarships, practically all of which are awarded and restricted to Freshmen. These scholarships have been founded for the purpose of assisting young men who are working their way to a higher education. To be awarded one of these scholarships an applicant must show a financial need for assistance, his scholastic record must show promise, and his character must be above reproach. On the basis of these three items scholarships are awarded. The fact that a man is an athlete does not enter into the decision."

Open Forum

To the Editor of The Davidsonian:

Your paper of last Thursday contained two articles, the contents of which startled me greatly. I refer to the alleged news story headed "Authorities Refuse Senior Scholarship" and the editorial captioned“Concerning Gifts.” I have stated to you, several mistakes were made, I do not say intentionally, which certainly place your journal and the Senior class in a bad light. I cannot argue with you on the point of wisdom in writing an editorial on this subject, because you have a traditional right to place your opinion on Page Four. However, I believe that your policy would excite more admiration when you adhere more closely to the facts, especially when the topic of your comment is as controversial as the present one happens to be. Personally, I consider your act “bad form,” but that item does not necessarily enter this discussion.

The place where I take most violent exception to your esteemed paper, however, is not found upon the Editorial page, but on the “news story” to which I referred above. The gentleman who wrote the article seems to be possessed with more imagination and vocabulary than he is with information or integrity. A Davidsonian reporter came to me and asked for information about the class gift, saying that he understood that our proposal had been refused by the faculty, but as the class had not acted on the matter of Dr. Martin’s letter, I gave your representative no information. The following morning, after the class meeting when we decided upon our present course of action, the same reporter asked for the result of the meeting. I requested, on account of the nature of the situation, and because I thought an article in the college paper unwise and unwarranted for several reasons, chief among which was that misunderstanding would arise and an impression of discord between the Seniors and the College Administration would be created, that no story be carried on this matter. That was my request. And so you can imagine my surprise when the Davidsonian appeared carrying certain statements disguised as facts.

First, the proposal of the class was refused on technical grounds only. I had received a letter from Dr. Martin, who wrote by order of the Executive Committee, saying that all funds given to the college must be administered by the Finance Committee of the Board of Trustees in regard to care and investment and that “all scholarship fund income shall be allotted by the President of the College under the direction of the Faculty.” Therefore, our fund could not be handled by a special committee. The money was refused upon this ground. And too, both parties concerned in this issue were in perfect harmony as this same letter suggested that the class raise the fund as originally planned, present it to the college without any restriction, with the assurance that it would be handled carefully. This the class believed but decided not to make a class gift.

And so you see, Mr. Editor, that at least one member of your staff has not only no regard for the expressed wishes of others, but also has distorted the facts of the rather complex affair until the result is not similar in the least to the truth. From what source the reporter received his information I do not know nor do I care, but I want you and the Student Body to know the correct facts and to realize, once more, the value of always adhering closely to the facts. If it was your desire to save the “Davidson honor,” you have done nothing to further your cause. I sincerely believe that more unfavorable publicity has been given to the College by your paper in the two articles of last week’s issue than in any other possible way. No doubt you differ with me, but that is to be expected as you have shown that your paper has no regard for the wishes of others, has no respect for harmony between students and Administration and furthermore is capable of going to extreme measures to secure certain statements which it is unable—if one is to judge by the present situation—to back up with facts. I shall be glad to have this published in your Open Forum column for reasons that are obvious.

CALDWELL WITHERS, President, 1928.

Minnesota’s band will perhaps be the first university band to have an all-moustache personnel. It will also be the first all-moustache band to tour Europe. Motion pictures of entering students are taken at Detroit in order to aid in character analysis. Athletic ability or the lack of it does not enter into the data given to the Faculty Committee. Never has there been information so far as we know, either for or against this policy.

COSMIC CHAOS

When the New York City Railways, Inc., raised their fare to seven cents, the stock gained about fifteen points. A leading editorial writer asserted that, “New York makes more fuss over a penny than a million dollars.” Perhaps it is so. The fight has been waged for months in the Supreme Court; the magnates win; the public pays, pays to the extent of ten million dollars, for in 1927 the company carried approximately five million passengers.

News comes from France that Devi Shermista, formerly Miss Nancy Miller, of Seattle, and her Maharajah husband have bought a luxurious chateau on the Rue St. Germain. There are few American women who could stand the sacred rites of the Hindus. Bathing in the Ganges along with thousands of ill-smelling natives is not pleasant, neither is it agreeable to have to pay too many obligations to the sacred heifers and white elephants. Certainly Paris, where bathing in the Seine before sunrise would hardly be conventional, is a more elite place of residence.

Foreign counts and generals find living, even as head-waiters, growing harder in this country. Geo. Y. D’Hedberg, at one time a major-general in the Russian army in command of 70,000 men, was recently arrested in New York for stealing two shirts. Nicholas II would have been shocked if anyone had even suggested that a member of the Imperial force could have been jailed on any charge. Proprieties and times have advanced since the time when Catherine the Great had seventy nude peasant maidens changed into statues by pouring freezing water over them in the depths of a Russian winter.

Hard, indeed, is the life of one who devotes his energies to the pleasing of the public. Charlie Baker, former idol of the French people and introducer of jazz in France, paralyzed and penniless, died in Paris. For years he has earned his bread by acting as a doorman at a ten-cent theatre. His contribution was jazz. But the public cares little for a man’s contribution after it has been made. Handel, Beethoven, and Mendelssohn found life equally hard; their works will live longer than Charlie Baker’s, at that.

Prospective clergymen and ministerial students evidently have the promise of a somewhat athletic ministry. Six preachers of Staunton, Va., formed a volleyball team which won state-wide recognition. The Staunton police force rankled under their publicity, as the police, too, had a good team. The result was a wager to the effect that if the police won two of three games, the ministers would spend one hour in jail; if the parsons were victorious, the cops were to attend church in a body. On the Sunday after the cops had lost three consecutive games, six disconsolate red-headed Irish policemen walked sedately down the aisle of the Episcopal church. Moral: Don’t gamble your church-going privileges!

Mentioning red-headed ones reminds us that there are only eighteen boosters of the auburn curl in school. This is approximately two and nine-tenths percent of the student body. The question naturally arises: Does this scarcity of red hair show lack of their ability to attend institutions of higher education? Not at all! Of the dark and light-haired men in school, something like six and three-tenths percent made the honor roll. Of the red-heads, eleven percent of their number attained this distinction. All of them work, and the remainder of the student body may well despair of scholastic honors if the percentage of the auburn tops increases.

Although slightly disagreeable, the hot weather of the last few days has done its good turn. The mosquito hatcheries, located around the excavation for the new building, have dried up. Their rapidly increasing number was becoming a veritable menace to the house-flies, gnats, and other insects. It has been mathematically calculated that if the hatcheries had not dried up when they did, in two days there would have been 743,865,908,312 large and small mosquitoes. To give an idea of the vast multitude of them, if they were placed end to end there would be enough to extend from the west light post of the library to the east pillar of East. Or, if they were placed one on top of the other, their number would be sufficient to reach to the top of the flag pole and cover 47 stars of the flag.

—J. W. Mc.

A freshman dance at Drake University was suddenly turned into a paddling bee much to the delight of the young freshmen’s partners and those who wielded the paddles. Any Ohio State man with an unexcused absence before or after a vacation is given an additional three hours as a requirement for graduation. The Duke Chronicle notes that its students save $15,000 each college year in traveling expenses by “bumming.”