THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 19, 1928 -- Sport Talk: News and Views of Wildcat Events By Raymond Lake

Last week might be called a disastrous week for the Wildcats in so far as basketball is concerned. The varsity
played two games and lost both of them, while the Freshmen lost their initial encounter to the team from the
Oak Ridge Institute. It’s a bad beginning all the way around, and probably the outlook is rather gloomy just at
present, but we never can tell what the future holds in store, especially in connection with a Wildcat team.

The Duke game last Wednesday was a fast one and well played on both sides. The Wildcats worked hard, but
were simply outclassed by the team from Durham. The combination of Jankoskie, Councillor, Werber, and Farley, was one that will
be hard to beat. They were good dribblers, good shots, and all passed well. In short, Duke has a team
this year which will be hard to beat and which will be near or at the top when the last
whistle blows in the final Big Five game of the year. The Wildcats, as has been said, played well and
deserve just as much credit as they usually do at the end of a game—in other words, all we can
give them. They were simply up against a better team and their best was not enough to bring them out
on top.

As for the game Friday night with Furman, we cannot say that the Wildcats were at their best then. They
fought, but seemed to be unable to get going as well as they did in the game against Duke. The
Furman team was a strong one, as is shown by the fact that they downed the Georgia five a few
days before taking on the Wildcats, but if they were to meet the team from Durham, our prediction is that
they would go down in defeat. They won over the Wildcats because of their accuracy in their long shots and
their superior following-up after missing goals, and also because the Wildcats seemed to be a little “off” and not up
to the form they showed in their game Wednesday night.

In spite of the fact that the team as a whole did not function at its best for some reason
or another, several individual members played a stellar game of ball. Pritchett, at forward, was the star of the game
for the Wildcats. Although this is his first year with the varsity, he showed up mighty well, and looked like
a veteran on the floor. He was high-point man of the game, being two points ahead of Dorman, captain of
the Furman five, and played a better game than any of his teammates or their opponents. Charlie Harrison, as usual,
played a good game, but his playing was probably not up to standard. Wilson and Hewlett also showed up well,
playing a good individual game.

The Freshman game last Saturday night started off to be a great exhibition, but after the half when the cadets
from Oak Ridge came back so strong, the Freshmen were almost swept off their feet, and could not stop the
visitors. It seemed a shame to lose the game by one point after being 11 points ahead at one time
near the first of the game. The Oak Ridge coach must have said a lot or done something to his
boys during the half, because they started off the second half with a field goal in about one minute or
less after the whistle had blown, and did not slow up till the final whistle had blown. They made up
the difference in the score in a little while and at one time were leading by three points. In spite
of the fact that the Freshmen lost, and just as was the case in the varsity game against Furman, several
players showed up unusually well, and looked mighty good. The star of the game for the Wildkittens was Goodson. This
player was exceptionally good on dribbling down the floor through the whole cadet team.

Wildkittens Meet Good Teams in Schedule

The Wildkittens will begin shortly after exams a strenuous basketball schedule. Seven games with strong teams are already scheduled and
there is a possibility of three more. The team, after playing their first game on Saturday, January 14th, seemed to
be in good shape and some good material was apparent. In the first Freshman game of the season, the new
men lost to the strong Oak Ridge team by a one-point margin. The American Trust quintet put up a good
fight Monday night, but could not overcome the lead of the Freshmen.

The regular five-day trip for the Freshman squad will come on the 14th, 15th, 16th, and 17th of February. On
this trip, the Frosh will meet Oak Ridge for the second time, and tackle Duke, Wake Forest, and State, before
returning to the campus. This trip for the Freshmen is the only one taken and for the last few years
has proven rather disastrous. The strength of the oncoming material will be seen on this trip. The manager is busy
finishing up the minor parts of the schedule. A game with the Statesville Athletic Club is practically certain for the
night of February 6th. A game with Charlotte High School has been scheduled for February 8th. Catawba College wants a
game with the Fresh over in Salisbury, which will perhaps be played on February 10th. State College will play a
return game in the Davidson gym when a date suitable to both schools can be decided upon.

The complete schedule for the Wildkittens is as follows:
Oak Ridge—January 14, here.
American Trust—January 16, here.
(Continued on page 7)

Beats Fresh in Hair-Raising Game

Wildkittens Play Hard But Lose by One Point

In their first tilt of the present season, the Freshmen cagers showed excellent form at Davidson. The final score, however,
was 28 to 27, in favor of the visiting team. The first half of the game nearly belonged to the
Davidson boys, Oak Ridge 15. Both teams played exceedingly good basketball. When the whistle blew for the end of the
third quarter period, Davidson was still well in the lead, the score standing at 25, to the boys from the
Ridge’s 18. The visiting team showed itself to be more powerful than earlier in the game, while the Freshmen seemed
a bit slow in getting started. Davidson scored but one more field goal in the fourth and final quarter of
the game, and the visitors came up to win a real basketball game by a one-point margin.

On the prep school’s team, Pierce, at the center position, was undoubtedly the star. Bill Goodson seemed to have made
the best showing on the side of the Wildcats. Goodson tied Rusk for the Davidson high scoring honors with nine
points each. Pierce, however, tallied up some 16 points for his team. Procter’s defensive work as guard was as good
as could possibly be asked for. Rusk, who has been acting captain, due to the fact that there is no
regular captain, played an excellent game, but seemed not quite able to hit his usual stride. Joe McCall, who with
Rusk played forward, showed himself to be an excellent pivot man. McAllister, who alternated with Wilson as center, played a
very good game around the basket. A complete line-up and summary of the game appears below, together with a list
of the substitutions:

Oak Ridge (28) Position Davidson (27)
Faulkner (5) F McCall (4)
Solomon (1) F Rusk
Pierce (16) C Wilson
Wilson G Procter (2)
Beaver (4) G Goodson (9)

Substitutions—Oak Ridge: Abernathy, Morris, Henry, and Lane; for Davidson: Overman and McAllister (3).
Referee: Hengeveld, of Davidson.team, and his long shots at the basket were very accurate. He was consistent in his playing
and fought like a true Wildcat. Rusk ran a good second, but his playing was probably not quite as good
as that of Goodson. His shots were accurate also and his dribbling good, but Goodson had a little edge in
several particulars. McCall also showed up well and fought hard during the entire game.

SOUTHERN FEDERATION
(Continued from page 1)
government in handling cases of all kinds that may arise in college. Among the common subjects of discussion are the
maintenance of school spirit, financing of college publications, religious exercises, and other matters of importance.

Big Parts. Cats to Meet Wofford, Terriers, and Christians
With the Guilford game out of the way, Captain Ben Wilson and his Wildcat basketeers are practicing steadily for the
next games on the schedule. On the first of February, the Wofford quintet comes to Davidson. The Wofford game will
be interesting, to say the very least, since the Terrier quintet is reputed to be one of the best in
South Carolina. The Elon team will take on the Red and Black machine on their return from an extensive trip
through Virginia, West Virginia, and Ohio, and should be in mid-season form. That means that Coach Monk’s charges will need
to be in top form to carry off the bacon. After the games with Wofford and Elon, the Wildcats meet
the basket team from Lenoir-Rhyne. This team may well be termed an unknown quantity because of the fact that Davidson
has not played them in several years. It is certain, however, that the game will prove interesting. On the 11th
of February, the Wildcats journey to Charleston, South Carolina, where they take on the teams from the College of Charleston
and the Citadel. Last year these two teams were played, the College of Charleston once and the Citadel twice. The
Wildcats, thanks to the shooting of Tom Anderson, were able to nose the College of Charleston out, but the Kaydets
defeated the Cats both games by narrow margins, despite the excellent shooting of Benny McAuley.

FREW AND FRY
(Continued from page 1)
The session days were divided into four periods. In the first period, in the morning, some famous and illustrious man
would address the body on a phase of their work or problems. The second period was a time of worship
for the entire group. After this, the conference broke up into colloquial groups in which problems were discussed in a
more intimate way. Allan Frew had the honor of being made the secretary of his colloquial group. At night there
were other lectures, after which any student might ask questions before the house. There were, in addition to the regular
sessions, a number of social events in which the members of the convention might become better acquainted with one another.
This convocation of volunteers has in the past acted as an agency for the advertisement of the volunteer work and
as a recruiting agency for it; over 11,000 workers have been sent out through it.

Allan Frew took up the inspirational aspect of the conference. His talk was along the following line: The general cosmopolitan
makeup of the gathering made it possible to get splendid ideas of conditions in other lands. China is rousing herself
from a long sleep and along with this awakening has come an economic upheaval. However, in spite of the tumult,
mission leaders believe that missionaries have made their mark and that Christianity has become indelibly impressed upon China. India is
becoming enlightened on the evils of its social castes, and Christianity is progressing there. Nevertheless, India is looking for a
more practical application of Christianity by Christian Britain. Africa is in dire need of a new social order, for its
industrial progress has been far in advance of the social and moral advance. Along with favorable reports of Christianity in
these countries, there came denunciations of America from all sides. They said, “You are not Christians,” “You have missed the
mark.” And it is no wonder, since exploitation has followed our advent into these lands. In our dealings with them,
we have not always allowed Christ to keep His touch on the keys of our hearts.

Call for SPs to be On the first day of February, the call will be sounded for spring football practice.
At this time, the men who expect to go out for football next year will be coached on the principles
and fundamentals of football. For the first week or two, the entire squad will practice together. Coach Monk Younger and
Tex Tilson, assisted by some of the seniors on the varsity, will drill the squad in the proper methods of
tackling, taking a man out, changing, and running with the ball, etc. The spring practice is expected to last six
weeks and possibly until the last of March. The first few weeks, both the backfield men and linesmen will practice
together. After this period, Coach Tex will spend all of his time coaching the linesmen, while Coach Monk will instruct
the backfield men. Two squads will be picked and every Saturday while the season lasts, a football game will be
staged. Both freshmen and upperclassmen are eligible to come out for spring football practice. This practice will be of great
benefit to any man who expects to go out for football next fall because spring practice is a study of
the fundamentals of football and of how to put these fundamentals into practice.

INDIVIDUAL SCORES
Players Points
Pritchett 38
Wilson 27
Kiple 16
Hewlett 13
Garrison 12
McAuley 12
Crawford 7

Freshmen Conquer Charlotte Quintet
The Davidson Freshmen defeated, by a large score, the American Trust Company basketball team Monday night. The Freshmen led throughout
the game, taking the lead a few minutes after the first whistle blew, and from that point their lead was
never threatened. The final score was 42 to 14. McCall drew first blood for the Wildkittens when he dropped a
field goal in the basket within the first few plays of the game. Others of the team followed suit and
quickly ran the score up to eight, where it remained until the end of the quarter. Score: Davidson 8, American
Trust 1. Opening the second quarter with a rally, the American Trust team scored three field goals to run their
total up to seven. The Fresh recovered and came back to score eight points and to end the half with
the total of 16 to 7. In the third quarter, the Wildkittens clearly outclassed their opponents and ran the score
up to 26 to 10. During the last quarter, the Freshmen ran wild, making a total of 16 points to
two field goals scored by the American Trust, running up a final score of 42 to 14. Rusk was high-point
man for the Freshmen, making a total of 18 points. Medlin, of the American Trust, was high-point man of that
team with a total of eight. For the Freshmen, Rusk and McAllister played the best game, Rusk being the high-point
man, and McAllister excelling in his floor work. The American Trust team fought gamely all during the contest, but was
clearly outclassed by the Freshmen. Medlin, center, gave the best exhibition of basketball for their team. Long and Lyles also
showed flashes of good form. The game was played as a preliminary to the varsity game with Guilford. The box
score:

Freshmen Position Am. Trust
Rusk (18) F Long (1)
McCall (4) F Shearer
McAllister (8) C Medlin (8)
Proctor (3) G Wilson
Goodson G Lyles

Substitutions — Davidson: Goodykoontz, Overman, Wilson, and Gibson. American Trust: Black and Bizell. Timekeeper: Hengeveld; referee: Tilson.

“Hey, mister. Call your dog off.”
“Nothin’ doin’, I’ve called him Towser ever since he was a pup.” —Webfoot.

“Where did you ever learn to kiss like that?”
“I play the saxophone.” —Penn. State Froth.

“My son can wear a dress suit to perfection.”
“Perhaps there’s hope after all, head waiters are in demand always.” —Notre Dame Juggler.
