Page Six

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Economics And Politics Fine Course At Oxford

By Phillip W. Buck
Assistant Professor of Government, Mills College, California, Rhodes Scholar from Idaho to Wadham College, Oxford 1923-1926

It will be some time yet before Oxford establishes an Honors School of Business Administration. Any American who goes there in search of training in the Technique of Advertising, or the Management of Retail Credit, will find no one to recognize those subjects, much less to teach them to him. But if any American goes there to study the economic and political aspects of this modern society, he will find those subjects being deeply considered, actively, even furiously discussed, and ably taught.

The student who wishes to study economics and politics for this purpose—namely, to try to understand the political and economic phenomena of this present confusing world—has urgent and fundamental need of at least three things: Libraries, that is, formal material to work with; association with competent men actively interested in such investigation; and a sufficient proximity to the actual, functioning political and economic structure which he wishes to investigate. The American Rhodes Scholar finds all three at Oxford.

He is most likely to be dissatisfied, I believe, with the first item—the libraries. Accustomed to the inhuman perfection of library technique in his own university, where he often had merely to present the magic symbols of a card catalogue index number to have the book come sliding down a chute to him with almost incredible promptness, he finds that fumbling in a college or university library at Oxford is fearfully annoying. But the Oxford Libraries, to offset their inefficiency, possess the very great advantage of informality—except, of course, the Bodleian and the Radcliffe Camera. In the Brand Library of the Codrington in All Souls College, in the pleasant rooms of the Barnett House Library, in the library at the Union, in his own college library, he has the experience which has frequently been denied him, of finding the books himself on the shelves; and though he frequently doesn’t find precisely what he wants, he often inadvertently finds things he would never have discovered otherwise. In any case, these libraries are not merely adequately, but well stocked with the books and periodicals he needs.

He can scarcely be dissatisfied with the way his second need is met—the men he is associated with in his studies, both faculty and students, are not merely competent, but stimulating. Tutors in economics and politics at Oxford colleges are usually young (because the School of “Modern Greats” is a new one), interested, and—what is more important still—acquainted with other fields of knowledge than their own particular specialty, philosophy, history, ethics. Further, the student reading the Honor School of Philosophy, Politics, and Economics, is at present sent to a number of men in various colleges, and this is a real advantage; he may have some bad tutors; but may also count on having some very good ones. The lecturers he hears are men of real eminence; some names—D. H. Macgregor, A. D. Lindsay (Master of Balliol), G. D. H. Cole, W. G. S. Adams, E. M. Lipson—will affirm this.

Finally, he has the opportunity of coming into contact with the actual phenomena he is learning about. Oxford itself is cosmopolitan—he may have first-hand accounts of British Indian administration, French politics, international finance, industrial technique, from students and tutors he has the good fortune to meet. He is within reach of “The Heart of the Empire” in London, the French and German parliaments, the Paris Bourse, or Lombard Street. These things inevitably impinge upon him in the papers he reads; he meets Socialists, Anarchists, Syndicalists. He need not be observant to learn things; or even intelligent—it is enough to be conscious!

“But this is all very abstract,” says the prospective student, Rhodes Scholar or otherwise, “what do I do, exactly, when I get there?” The answer to that question involves a brief description of the academic opportunities that are open to him. He may “read for”—“register in” is a reasonably accurate translation—the Honors School of Philosophy, Politics, and Economics which has already been mentioned. Here he works for two or three years on such subjects as these: History of Philosophy, Moral and Political Philosophy, Economic and Political Organization, British Constitutional and Political History, British Social and Economic History, Economic Theory, certain classics of economic and political writing, two foreign languages. This is not a complete list; but it shows the sort of thing he does. Further, he arranges these subjects in the order of his interest; he may concentrate on either Economics, Politics, or Philosophy, and do a special subject in that field. But he must learn something of all of them, and establish the relationships between them.

In the second place, he may spend a year or two in taking a Diploma in Economics and Political Science, a similar course, more limited in extent. In either case the degree or the diploma is granted after what we Americans call a comprehensive examination—a gruelling and valuable experience. If he already has graduate standing in his home university, he may do research work, and supplicate for either the degree of B. Litt. or D. Phil.

To come back, at last, to what was said at first: if a man wishes to acquire a specialized skill in some technical field of business or public administration, Oxford has little to offer him; but if his object is, to quote from the Statutes of the University, “the study of the structure, and the philosophical, political, and economic principles, of Modern Society” Oxford offers him truly great opportunities.

N. C. C. P. A. MEET
(Continued from page 1)

The report of the findings of the committees was then in order. The committee on the next meeting place recommended that the Association accept the invitation extended with reservations by the delegates from Greensboro College for Women. The various delegates then divided for discussion in groups as follows: Business managers, managing editors, annual editors, newspaper editors, and magazine editors. Following these discussions, Lee B. Weathers, president of N. C. P. A. (not N. C. C. P. A.) addressed the assembly.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE
S & W Cafeterias are catering to you
ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

WHOLESALE
When You Need CANDY
SEE US
26-28 South College St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DAVIDSON CLASHES
(Continued from page 5)

danger of being mistaken for a gathering of flower-growers. The Davidson ’Cats are in fine fettle. Most of the injuries resulting from their pre-championship games having healed, the entire squad will be available to Monk's call. With the rancor of last year’s galling defeat in their hearts along with the determination to stage a comeback, they bid fair to keep State’s hands rather full. Monk and Tex, while maintaining the well-known pessimism, both wore mysterious smiles when interviewed. And, by the way, Harry Griffin, the Observer's dope-fiend, hints that this year’s all-State lists may contain a four-letter word, beginning with K and meaning lubricated lightning. The team will leave Saturday morning about 8:00 o'clock, and around 30 men will be carried. In its wake all good Davidsonians will trail. Headquarters for the Red and Black in Greensboro during the morning and afternoon will be the Hotel King Cotton.4

The results of the 17 engagements of the two elevens follow:

| State | Year | Davidson |
|-------|------|----------|
| 0     | 1899 | 0        |
| 0     | 1900 | 17       |
| 7     | 1901 | 6        |
| 0     | 1902 | 5        |
| 6     | 1907 | 0        |
| 21    | 1908 | 0        |
| 0     | 1916 | 0        |
| 7     | 1917 | 3        |
| 36    | 1919 | 6        |
| 23    | 1920 | 0        |
| 3     | 1921 | 3        |
| 15    | 1922 | 0        |
| 12    | 1923 | 6        |
| 10    | 1924 | 10       |
| 0     | 1925 | 9        |
| 0     | 1926 | 3        |
| 25    | 1927 | 6        |
| ?     | 1928 | ?        |

185 74

ALUMNI SECRETARY (Continued from page 1):

...voted to homecoming day, when practically a dozen states will be represented by men from approximately all of the classes from 1870 through 1928, with the exception of about ten. Plans for homecoming include a broadcast of a Davidson program over Station WBT on the night of November 13. Heretofore the alumni news has been handled through “The Davidsonian,” and due to the fact that many alumni do not get The Davidsonian, they have lost all track of their fellow classmates and the college. This alumni paper was founded to offset this, it being thought that the alumni would pay more attention to a special alumni paper than to The Davidsonian. The editor of the “Davidson Alumnus” is the alumni secretary, Ernest Milton. Milton during the years that he has been here has done much to promote the alumni work. He has secured the names and addresses of many alumni and ex-men of whom all record had been lost. One feature of the paper is the vital statistics corner. This is located on the last page of the paper, and contains all of the recent available records of births, deaths, engagements, and marriages of alumni. The mailing list in the alumni office at the present time totals 3,741 names, with the possibility of more than 150 other alumni names being added during the year. Several hundred men were traced during the past summer months. It is estimated that if all of the former students now living could be located, the list would total approximately 4,100 names. This serves to show the task awaiting the alumni secretary when he starts to mail out the alumni paper to the many graduates.

After a complimentary luncheon in the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel, the convention adjourned to meet again in the spring.

DSONIAN November 8, 1928.

Juniors Outstanding In First Track Meet Run Up 66½ Points to Score Victory

On Friday, November 1, the first fall track meet ever held at Davidson took place, with the Junior class copping first honors with a total score of 66½ points. They were followed by the Seniors with 40½ points, the Freshmen, with 33 points, and the Sophomores with 19 points. Although no records were officially broken, some of the times and marks were surprisingly good for this season of the year, as no pledge was required of any track candidates. The performance of Whittle in the high hurdles was probably the outstanding feat of the afternoon. He negotiated the necessary distance in the fast time of 15⅖ seconds. Since the watches of the timers were not exactly the same, the average of three watches was taken. In the javelin throw, Herman King of the Junior class outstripped his competitors with a distance of 153 feet and 3 inches. Captain Bailey was not forced above 10 feet in the pole vault. The hundred-yard dash was won by Whittle in the excellent time of 10⅕ seconds. Dumas won the high jump at 5 feet 11 inches. It seems that the men participating in the meet were so versatile in their events, that the high point honors were claimed by no less than four men. These jack-of-all-trades are Lafferty, Whittle, and Gardner, all of the Junior class, and Lillard of the Freshman class. These men turned in scores of 10 points each. King, of the Junior class, was close on their heels with a total of 9 points, and was in turn followed closely by Jennings of the Senior class who boosted the total score of the Seniors 8 points. The relay race, which was run between the halves of the Wildkitten-Blue Im game on Friday, was also won by the Juniors. The following is a summary of the meet:

100 Yard Dash
1. Whittle, (Ju.)
2. Jennings, (Se.)
4. Creech, (Se.)
Time, 10⅕.

Mile Run
1. Ely, (Se.)
2. Brannon, (Fr.)
3. Wilkinson, (Se.)
4. Daffin, (Ju.)
Time, 4:47.

220 Yard Dash
1. Jennings (Se.)
2. Neal (So.)
3. McGavock (Ju.)
4. Ritchie (Ju.)
Time, 24:5.

High Hurdles
1. Whittle (Ju.)
2. George (So.)
Time, 15⅖.

440 Yard Dash
1. Lafferty (Ju.)
2. Neal (So.)
3. McGavock (Ju.)
4. McLaughlin (Fr.)
Time, 54 sec.

Shot Put
1. Lillard (Fr.)
2. Ashcraft (Fr.)
3. Gardner (Ju.)
4. King (Ju.)
Dist., 3 ft. 3 in.

2 Mile Run
1. Beavers (Ju.)
2. Nunan (Jr.)
3. Kuykendall (Fr.)
4. Bost (So.)
Time: 11 min., 20 sec.

Low Hurdles
1. Frye, J. C. (Se.)
2. Creech (Se.)
3. Gorham (Fr.)
4. Bettis (Fr.)
Time 28 sec.

880 Yard Run
1. Lafferty (Ju.)
2. Drake (So.)
3. Goodwin (Ju.)
4. Wiley (So.)
Time, 2:9.

Pole Vault
1. Bailey (Se.)
1. Dumas (Se.)
2. Gardner (Ju.)
3. George (So.)
4. Bailey (Se.)
Height, 10 ft.

Discus
1. Lillard (Fr.)
2. King (Ju.)
3. Ashcraft (Fr.)
4. Frye, G. (Se.)
Distance, 111 ft. 1 in.

Broad Jump
1. Gardner (Ju.)
2. Scales (Ju.)
3. Powell (Fr.)
4. McGavock (Ju.)
Distance, 20 ft. 3 in.

Javelin
1. King (Ju.)
2. Buckner (Fr.)
3. McCullogh (So.)
4. Creech (Se.)
Dist. 153 ft. 3 in.

880 Yard Relay
Juniors (McGavock, Scales, Lafferty, Whittle.)
Time, 1 min., 40 sec.

There is style in the prices, too! No longer need the well-shod man pay the price of out-of-date production methods. Inefficiency is outmoded. Modern methods enable John Wards to lead in quality, in style, yet sell for dollars less! Buy your next pair here—at seven and nine dollars!

John Ward Men's Shoes INCORPORATED — REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark, and Philadelphia

A good shoe to ask for by name—MONTROSS

On display By BILL BAILEY & DEAN RUSK 208 Watts

Training is Tough at Castor College

But then Castor is different from Illinois. Bob Zuppke, grand old man of Illinois, writes How Hard is Football? in the December issue of COLLEGE HUMOR. Knute Rockne also shares the spotlight with his Football Is Fun, with anecdotes from the Army-Notre Dame game. “No college drunks are wanted,” says Fred Waring’s Pennsylvanians, who writes the formula of success for his famous college band. Harvard, a searching analysis of America’s grand old school, by Gilbert Seldes. A hundred million dollars can’t be wrong! Then there is the Collegiate Hall of Fame and the new College Sports department. Your college may be represented. Wow! What an issue! Stop at your nearest news dealer and invest 35c in the December issue of COLLEGE HUMOR.