THE DAVIDSONIAN
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 15, 1928 No. 23

Annual Athletic Night Features Address by Rev. Edgar A. Gammon
Gold Footballs Awarded Members of Eleven—Basketball Certificates Given to Lettermen of 1928

An address by Rev. Edgar Gammon, one-time Hampden-Sidney gridiron hero, and present pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, of
Charlotte, featured the elaborate program of Athletic Night, staged on the local campus Wednesday evening under sponsorship of the Davidson
Athletic Association. Speaking on the subject of “College Athletics,” Rev. Mr. Gammon presented an exhaustive survey of the field of
college sports with suitable emphasis on the dangers as well as the advantages of intercollegiate athletic competition.

Overemphasis was declared by Rev. Mr. Gammon as the principal danger in modern college athletics. Placing too much importance on
winning teams, with the result that alumni demanded a victorious eleven or a new coach; inspiring a false sense of
loyalty to the alma mater which leads inevitably to gambling among undergraduates and commercialism by alumni; and the hazard of
athletics taking too much of the time that rightfully belongs to studies, were pointed out by the speaker as leading
perils of a modern trend in college athletics.

Painting a different picture, Rev. Mr. Gammon turned quickly to the advantages of athletics. Benefits to the body, the mind,
the personality and the character far outweigh the evils of college sport, and no man should fail to take advantage
of the opportunity to participate, he averred. “In the final analysis, the determining factor of all college athletics is the
coach,” he explained. “No man in the college can exercise the influence over the lives of students that the coach
can exercise. No coach should view his work as a job. His is a calling that demands the finer qualities
of manhood.”

(Continued on page 5)

Converse Glee Club To Appear Here in Concert
Singers Come as Feature of House-Party Program on Week-End

On Saturday night, March 17th, Davidson College will undergo a most pleasant ordeal. On that night the Glee Club from
Converse College at Spartanburg will present its program for the current season. Coming as the outstanding feature of the week-end,
the visit of the Glee Club fits in most opportunely with the house party program of the various fraternities, and
the coming of this well-known organization is certain to excite much interest on the parts of students and townspeople alike.

Several local people have heard the Converse Club in concert during the present season, and from all reports their program
is even better than that offered last year. As all Davidson men know already, this is a very broad statement,
because the entertainment presented here last year was of the best possible nature, and created the best impression of any
offered at Davidson. The advance notices bill the club as “Forty of the Fairest,” and it is expected that Friday
night will see this statement verified. Many of the young ladies will dine at the various fraternity houses on the
night of their arrival, and all in Davidson’s power will be done to make their stay on the campus a
most enjoyable one.

The Converse girls are now on their annual spring tour of the Carolinas. Everywhere they have been hailed as an
attraction of the first water, and Davidson is extremely fortunate that they have chosen to visit the “Hill” once more.

Davidson Delegates Attend I. R. C. Meet

The International Relations Club Conference was held March 7th through March 9th, at Anderson College, Anderson, S. C. Representatives from
seven states: North Carolina, South Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Texas and Georgia, attended the convention.

Interesting addresses were delivered by the professors of the different colleges represented. The main address was given by Baron Alphonse
Heyking, of the University of Dorpat, Russia. Baron Heyking, who is a noted diplomat and state counselor of Russia, has
served as the Russian minister of foreign affairs, and is a member of the Russian ministry at the present time.
He represents the interests of racial minorities at the League of Nations at Geneva. Heyking will be a guest of
the chapter of the Relations Club here at Davidson some time in the near future and will give an address
here to the students.

Another speaker was Miss Jones, the national secretary of the International Relations Club, who serves as the assistant secretary of
the Carnegie Endowment for international peace.

One hundred delegates attended the conference. Representatives from Davidson were J. M. Akers and Riggs McConnell. The Lions Club, the
Rotary Club, and the Kiwanis Club combined and gave the delegates a banquet on Friday, the 9th. A very interesting
address was given by Dr. Hamilton Holt, who has served as president of one of the third American Peace Conferences.
He is now president of the Third American Scandinavian Foundation, and is president of the Greek-American Clubs.

(Continued on page 8)

New Cheer Leader
Myers, Who Succeeds “Spike” McGee in Office of Inspiring Future Wildcats

Myers Is Chosen Cheer Leader By Close Margin In First Spring Election
Office of Cheer Leader Here Involves Myriad of Responsible Duties

WINS OVER GRADY
Sophomores Trying Out for This Position to be Called Out Shortly

In the annual election of the cheer leader, held last Monday morning at chapel time, Nelson Myers, of the Junior
class, was chosen to act in that capacity for the coming year. Myers defeated Bob Grady, of the same class,
in the first ballot, by the score of 134 to 114.

The office of cheer leader on the Davidson campus, and off, as well, may in no sense be termed a
sinecure. Among his myriad other tasks, the cheer leader must make arrangements for the chartering of all special trains run
to the football games, assist the Athletic Association and the coaches in any way possible, hold and lead all pep
meetings, and a thousand other things; in short, he must not only be fiery himself, but able to fill the
whole student body with that ancient ally of Davidson, in tasks ranging from the

(Continued on page 8)

Varied Attractions Are Planned for ‘Speaking’
Director of Charlotte’s “Jollies of 1928” Secured to Coach Junior Dramatics

The Junior class has planned for April 27th and 28th a modified form of Junior Speaking. A varied program is
to be presented on the two days, which will include the oratorical contest, a reception and other kinds of entertainment.
A committee has been appointed by Mac King, president of the class, to complete all plans for the occasion.

Friday night, April 27th, the Oratorical contest will be held in Shearer Hall. W. K. Pritchett was appointed to take
charge of this phase of the entertainment. Those members of the Junior class who will speak for the honors are:
W. L. Dumas, R. O. Flinn, J. R. Graham, R. E. Kell, H. A. Knox, W. K. Pritchett and D.
D. Wilkinson. All of these men have spoken at some previous time and keen competition is expected.

The Davidson track team will meet the runners from the University of South Carolina on Saturday afternoon, April 28th. This
will be followed immediately by a reception on the campus near the Y. M. C. A. rooms. Bob Kell has
charge of this committee and plans entertainment for all students, the faculty and guests. Refreshments will be served.

(Continued on page 8)

Oil Man Addresses Davidson Students
Oscar H. Reinholt spoke in Shearer Hall on petroleum, last Monday evening.Mr. Reinholt, formerly a government valuation engineer, is now
an author, educator, and lecturer. The title of Mr. Reinholt’s lecture was “A Bird’s-Eye View of a Big Business.” In
his lecture, he presented a unique panorama of the oil industry, giving its history, its growth, and the importance of
the oil business. He also illustrated these different phases of the business with photographic slides. Among his slides, Mr. Reinholt
showed pictures of some of the largest wells, refineries, and pipelines in the world. His lecture was heard by a
large and appreciative audience of students, faculty, and townspeople. Mr. Reinholt pointed out that during the last decade, the production
of petroleum has been the swindler’s main lure in separating Americans from their money. He also averred that “through dishonestly
promoted oil companies, as much as $300,000,000 has been lost in a single year.” He declared that 40,000 investors had
lost more than $50,000,000 in the recent tar and oil tragedies of California.” (Continued on page 8)

Glee Club Sings To Charlotte Audience

The Davidson Glee Club appeared at the Carolina Theater the first three days of this week and played to large
audiences. Their program was well received and improvement was shown in their numbers. Ed Wilson assisted the club very ably
in a short group of the latest song hits. The club just returned from Atlanta, where they played at Agnes
Scott College, in Decatur, and the Women’s Club in Atlanta. They made a big hit in the Southern cities. The
club offered plenty of variety in their program, which required a period of about 40 minutes. The usual program lasts
about one hour and a half, but it was shortened to give the people of Charlotte their best program. The
program at the Carolina opened with a selection from the Sunnyland Serenaders, which is considered to be on a par
with any college orchestra in the South. Ed Wilson made a hit with his popular songs. At every performance, he
was met with much applause from his hometown folks. “The Happy Trio,” composed of Thompson, Mobley, and McSwain, made their
stringed instruments sing. They made their program live up to the trio’s name. Jack Ramseur followed next with his musical
saw. This number went over big both at the theater and on the club’s recent trip. The Wildcat Quartet met
considerable approval in their offering of songs. The club closed the program with two choral numbers well selected. The club
presented two programs on Monday and three on the next two days of the week. Monday, the theater was turned
over to the Chamber of Commerce, which necessitated the omission of the matinee on that day. The picture of the
entire club appeared in the Sunday issue of the Charlotte Observer. (Continued on page 8)

Nine Men Selected By Reporters Club

Two upper-classmen and seven freshmen comprised the nine men who, on Monday morning, were elected to the Reporters’ Club, in
recognition of outstanding work in the journalistic field of the college. The men named to membership in the organization were
P. R. Alderman, C. H. DuBose, S. H. Long, J. V. Middleton, John Preston, W. C. Ragin, Dean Rusk, C.
Sisson, and Sam Wiley. Award of the honor, according to officials of the club, was made on the basis of
the work these men have done for The Davidsonian during the first part of this year. All of them have
shown a gift for journalistic writing, combined with a capacity for hard work, which should make them outstanding in collegiate
newspaper circles. The Reporters’ Club, for years one of the liveliest and most active organizations of the Hill, is credited
with having been largely responsible for the high place The Davidsonian holds among the college papers of the state. Giving
the men whose tastes run to journalism a chance to get together, at the same time its awards of membership
encourage ambitious students to take part in newspaper work on the campus. Initiation of these men, it is understood, is
scheduled for some time within the next two weeks. Past ceremonies of this kind have combined fun and seriousness in
an effective manner, and it is believed that the initiation (Continued on page 5)

CAMPUS HONOR FRATS BID LARGE NUMBER OF MEN ON ANNUAL DATE

Omicron Delta Kappa, With Bids Depending Upon Student Body Elections, Extends Bids at Later Date

Wednesday, March 14th, was a memorable day on the Davidson campus, for that was the day set aside by the
Honorary Fraternity Council as bid day for the honor groups. Eight national organizations and three local societies issued their bids
to new members on Wednesday. One of the national associations was permitted to withhold its bids until a later date.
This was the local circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, a leadership fraternity, whose bids depend largely upon the results of
the student body elections. Honorary Fraternity Bid Day is one of the biggest days in the entire college year, for
on that day the men who have done outstanding work along various lines are given public recognition for the first
time. Following is a complete list of the men bid by the respective groups:

Phi Beta Kappa, scholastic: J. M. Akers, J. P. McKnight, C. F. McRae, W. B. Bradford.

Delta Pi Kappa, journalistic order: V. J. Guthery, M. T. Gilmour, R. F. Jarret, Z. V. Long, Jr., F. D.
Miller, C. M. Pratt, B. A. Wilson.

Sigma Upsilon, literary: Riggs McConnell, R. F. Hall, B. F. Cannon, J. G. Johnston, J. R. Covington.

Sigma Pi Sigma, physics: A. W. Cowan.

Alpha Phi Epsilon, forensic: R. A. Glenn, C. R. Pritchett, Murray Christian.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemical: T. E. McGeachy, S. Y. Brown, D. H. Howard.

The men bid include nine Seniors, eight Juniors, and eight Sophomores. The Biology Club, Scabbard and Blade, Omega Phi Alpha,
and International Relations Club will bid their (Continued on page 5)

Alligator Debaters Downed By Large Count

Decision is Rendered by Popular Vote of Those Attending Lecture

Upholding the negative side of the query: Resolved, That the United States Should Cease to Protect by Force of Arms,
Capital Invested in Foreign Lands, Except After Formal Declaration of War, L. K. Pritchett and Bob Kell won the decision
over the University of Florida debating team here last Thursday evening. A very good crowd heard the question debated, and
the audience acted as judges, each person present voting for affirmative or negative. The result of the vote was 55
to 17 in favor of the Davidson team. Speakers for both the negative and the affirmative brought out a number
of strong points. The University of Florida team, upholding the affirmative, pointed out (1) that the present plan of protecting
property of Americans in foreign countries fostered imperialism and that this plan was inconsistent with the American idea of peace;
(2) that European countries do not protect property in foreign lands by armed force; therefore, America should not do so;
(3) also that we have large investments in Europe and Canada and that these investors did not ask protection of
the United States Government, as they were satisfied with the protection rendered by the local government. Kell was the first
speaker for the negative and he proceeded to tear down the argument of the affirmative, point by point. He was
followed by Pritchett, who presented sev- (Continued on page 5)
