4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1928

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.90 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD Managing Editor
A. N. BROWN Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT Managing Editor
J. B. MORIA Managing Editor
C. R. E. Editor
R. A. Editor
W. L. Editor
F. C. Editor
L. C. Editor
R. C. Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON Assistant Business Manager
W. M. WEL Assistant Business Manager
P. GARRISON Subscription Manager
W. S. DIGRRUON Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE Solicitor
Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. H. BAILEY President
Vice-President
R. GRAHAM Secretary-Treasurer
P. ANDERSON
S. R.
A. T. EDELMAN
W. ALLAN
F. P. B. FRY
E. S. HEEFNER
R. R.
F. JARRATT
D. R.
W. KIRKPATRICK
Z. V. LONG

EDITORIAL

A PREMATURE ADIEU

Due to the fact that the next issue of The Davidsonian will be turned over to military news and articles
in honor of the inspection that day, it was thought best to indulge in a few farewells in this issue.

It is always customary for the editor to publish a statement in the first issue he has charge of, in
order that he may outline the glorious things he will do during the time he is in charge of the
publication. It is also customary for him to write an article in his last issue, enumerating the things he has
done, usually with no reference to his first editorial. This will be somewhat the same plan followed out in this
article.

In regard to the actual management of the paper, the most notable change made by the present administration was that
of appointing three managing editors, rather than one managing editor and two assistants. These three positions and that of the
sporting editor were placed on the same plane in order that no prejudices of the editor in favor of one
or another aspirant would be evident. This has allowed the student body in general to know more of the capabilities
of the various candidates. As a result, we believe that the election of the editor for next year was cleared
of bias and prejudice than those of former years.

The Peanut Parcher was eliminated from the regular weekly issue by the present administration. In its place, a half page
of cartoons and jokes collected from the best collegiate humorists over the country has been run weekly. This has given
the students more real humor than would have been possible otherwise.

From the viewpoint of the editor, the main feature of the paper this year has been the personal columns. Walter
Lingle has been the main contributor, being the author of “Ollapodrida” and “Out of Bounds” column. This work has been
far above any other contributions to this paper and is worthy of much praise. Humor, serious discussions, unusual stories have
all appeared in his prolific writings. These clever articles have been the high spot of this periodical throughout the year.
Harllee Branch has loyally contributed several very worthy articles. Withers and McKnight have also done some work along this line.

It must be frankly admitted that any attempt to “crystallize campus opinion” has apparently resulted in a failure. The results
of some of the editorials cannot be measured openly, but if they may be estimated in proportion to the interest
displayed in editorials of a different type, they also may be chalked down as mediocre failures. The main reason for
this may have been that the editor has discussed obscure or abstruse subjects, possibly subjects in which the students are
not interested. Another reason may be that a very small percentage of the student body reads editorials, or fail to
pay them any attention if they do read them.

It has been mentioned before that the editorial policy of the paper is in the hands of one man, and
he cannot be expected to hold the viewpoints with which everyone will agree. In various collegiate journals over the country,
the editors and the fiery journalists insist on free speech and free press, without intervention from the faculty. Davidson enjoys
this, the contents of the paper are left largely to the discretion of the individuals in charge. The faculty believes
that common decency and respect for various traditions will prevent any thoughtless outburst. This has been the policy of the
paper throughout the year. If there have been any evils which can be corrected, an attempt has been made to
do so. But as in every institution, there exist some evils impossible to eradicate. It had not been thought wise
to bring any of these evils into public light, since no possible good could be accomplished by such an action.
If this is killing free speech, we are glad to be suppressed.

There have no doubt been many criticisms of the paper this year. We have realized some and attempted to correct
the situation if it needed to be so adjusted. At other times however, the criticism conflicted with the opinions of
the editor and after some thought, it was decided that these points would continue as they had in the past.
We have been wrong in some positions no doubt, but always the deciding point in any argument was the best
interests of the paper and the student body.

One of the main faults of the paper this year has been the lack of student body expression in the
Open Forum column. This place in the paper is always open to signed articles from any student on whatever subject
he may choose to write, if that subject is of importance to anyone in the student body besides the writer.
The editorials have not necessarily been the opinion of the student body, and the Open Forum column is open for
such a purpose. This failure can be corrected only by the students themselves. If the paucity of articles handed in
is an expression that the student body does not care for an Open Forum and that they do not wish
any opinions to be crystallized, the staff can do nothing. But this should not be the case.

The editorial policies of the incoming staff will be announced in the first issue the new administration edits. We can
predict success and wish them luck. The new editor has proven his worth in three years’ work under the supervision
of others. We are certain that he will be successful when he stands alone. And with this prediction the old
staff nominally passes away.

Open Forum

At their recent banquet the sophomores were timely reminded of the events of soph day last spring and of their
subsequent actions. As the time when the day is usually celebrated approaches it is well that each member of the
class carefully consider his feelings of last year and regulate his conduct accordingly.

During soph day the freshmen were made to entertain the upperclassmen with all manner of foolishness. That night they were
the objects upon which a certain class of bullies of the upperclasses heaped their abuses. The man who deliberately, violently
and continually trips one who is helpless can in no way be acting sportsmanlike and bully is the only name
applicable to such a person. That a class should receive such treatment without resentment or open opposition is not reasonable.
No class which has a spirit would remain passive to such treatment. Let us hope that every class at Davidson
is full of spirit. The sophomore class is certainly not lacking. No group of human beings, unless slaves with spirit
broken and will cowed, would tolerate some of the action of last year without open resistance.

As a result of soph day the freshmen profusely decorated the campus and buried the class of ’29. Two-thirds of
them were summoned before the Court of Control and about half of them disciplined. For eight months the upperclassmen, through
the Court of Control and fifteen rules as well as other means, do what they think is “training” the freshman
and removing his impudence. Then comes soph day and every bit of pseudo-discipline which might have been gained is broken
down. As a disciplinary act soph day is a failure. It only gives a certain class of the freshmen a
feeling of justification in applying the same ordeal to the next class.

There are two divisions of action on soph day—rough play and foolishness. The rough play is not excusable on any
possible grounds. But one might justly say that a life without a bit of occasional foolishness is not worth living.

Collegiate Comment

Out of Bounds

The band at Ohio State is producing songs on phonograph records. It would be an excellent idea if half the
instruments around here (which means all of the saxophones) wereRestricted to an activity similar to this. It’s so much easier
to cut off a victrola. At Colgate University, six students are earning part of their tuition for some psychological experiments
which are being conducted there. Just as a matter of conjecture, we wonder how much of this sleeping time is
confined to the classrooms. If such a system were inaugurated here, very few would need to pay tuition.

At Boston University recently, 116 students petitioned the dean to allow them to play bridge between classes. The venerable official
rejected the plea. And another great intercollegiate sport had its activities curtailed by authorities. College is just like a washing
machine; you get out of it just what you put into it—but you’d never recognize it. — Wesleyan Argus.

Some of the good Baptist brethren have risen up in indignation over the forming of a Smith-for-President club at Wake
Forest, a Baptist institution. They declare that they will not continue to support a school which advocates political parties at
that institution. We merely wonder what would have been their reaction if the club had been formed to support some
candidate besides Smith.

Beginning this month, the registrar at William and Mary will send grades only to the students at the first of
the month. The parents will be notified of the progress of their heirs only once a semester. The “mistakes in
grading” will be much easier to explain then.

The librarian at Georgetown College has recently made a ruling that women students must use one end of the library
and the men students the other. This was done in an effort to create a quieter atmosphere. No bright cracks
about that, Oswald.

“Arms and the Man Scores a Victory,” headlines The Spectator, of Mississippi Woman’s College. We are pleased to note that
one male at least has conquered the sacred precincts of a feminine institution.

President Brooks, of Baylor University, has registered a unique complaint in that he is disturbed over the serenading of co-eds
by the men of the university. “Good music wakes up the girls, and bad music keeps them awake,” states the
worried Prexy. The latter must have been what was troubling him.

Princeton again leads the nation, this time, in the matter of a prolific wardrobe. The average student there possesses 5.2
suits and 2.3 overcoats, which number leads all other institutions. (Note: The fractions are computed on the basis of the
number of times clothes are worn by roommates.)

Purdue’s $180,000 armory was burned down recently. We insist that it doesn’t pay to make too many boys take R.O.T.C.

March 1st was set as general pay day for all the classes at Gettysburg College. All dues owed the classes
were to have been paid that day. Those who did not comply were put on the “black list.” If that
had been done here, the expense for publishing the delinquent undergraduates would have equaled what they owed.

Spring training has recently been started at Rutgers. Practices were begun on March 15th and scrimmages started a week later.
Candidates here have something to be thankful for, that they haven't another month to go through with.

The chess team at Gettysburg College began its season last week by losing to the Albright aggregation. Reports have it
that exciting matches ensued. Well, someone has said that there was room in some activity for everybody.

Soph day can be carried on and be a success, even a greater success, without the rougher side. With capable
authorities in charge, a program could be arranged that would be enjoyable to sophomore and freshman alike. Following soph day
last year, the freshmen voluntarily decided that the day should not remain as it has been. It is up to
the class not to excuse that resolution on the grounds that it was made in the heat of emotion and
to continue in the progressive program that it has so far carried out.

Senator Reed, that fiery, talkative, fighting legislator, is touring this state this week to aid his cause as a Democratic
candidate for President. People in North Carolina don't like Senator Reed for the simple reason that the able man has
denounced President Wilson’s policies, not once, but often. By opposing these policies, the Senator has rallied Western Democrats about his
banner. This week, by slinging mud at the Republicans, he hopes to bring North Carolinians under his wing.

Until next June, any number of Democratic candidates will follow in Senator Reed’s wake. All of them will try to
win our hearts (and votes) by slinging still more mud at the Republican administration. Some of them will be wet.
Others will be dry. If they are dry, they will denounce the wets. If they are wet, they will pledge
themselves to support the Constitution of the United States without mention of any particular clauses. If this were New York,
the tables would be turned and dry candidates would become reticent while wets denounced the prohibition law. In June, there
will come a showdown and one will emerge as the Democratic candidate for President. At once, he will make a
sweeping tour of the United States expressing now not his personal opinions but instead pledging support to the Democratic platform
regardless of whether it is in keeping with his personal views or not. After that will come a thorough campaign
of all the doubtful states, New York, California, and the like, and finally the national vote in November.

The funny thing about all that is that neither North Carolina nor any other Southern state will have anything to
do with it. The statement seems paradoxical but nevertheless it is true. Of course, there are plenty of voters in
the South and most of them will go to the polls to exercise their right to vote. In fact, that
is exactly where the trouble lies. Party leaders know that the South will vote and, moreover, they know that they
will vote the Democratic ticket. The South has voted solidly for the Democratic ticket for fifty years and present indications
are that they may still be good for another fifty. The result is the dilemma that a Southern writer so
ably propounded in an editorial entitled “The Plight of the South,” some years ago. In short, neither Democratic nor Republican
party leaders take any consideration of the South in defining their policies for a campaign or in making up their
platform. The Democrats know that the South will go to their side of the fence even if they advocate the
establishment of a home for belligerent cats in every city of the United States. Just as surely, the Republicans know
that the South will oppose them even though they wished to vote a fifty-dollar bonus to every Democrat in sight.
Hence, they advocate no Southern legislation.

Is Senator Reed interested in the South? Not at all. He hopes that he may capture the North Carolina delegation
at the Democratic Convention after the favorite son battle has subsided. Does he wish to enact favorable legislation? Not a
chance. After the convention, he will oppose Southern legislation even if North Carolina supports him at the convention, if need
be. He is not the only culprit. Any other nominee will do the same. The South is sewed up and
every politician in the country knows it. Truly, the South is in a plight. No doubt you will suggest a
Southern nominee for President. If there were such a nominee, he might win but the Democratic party will never nominate
a Southern son so long as the South is solid. What’s the use? Better hand that distinction to some doubtful
state. Someone will venture to call my reasoning on that point by mentioning Woodrow Wilson. Yes, Wilson was Southern born
but he was a New Jersey politician. Party leaders found a lucky combination of elements in his case. His Northern
and not his Southern distinction won him the place. To clinch the argument, consider Carter Glass of Virginia, an able
senatorial leader, a presidential candidate at the last convention and one who received not a single vote outside of the
solid South.

And yet in the midst of its plight, the South is in a position to control national policies if it
so desires. For let the South reverse its party affiliations for one year and both Democratic and Republican leaders will
grant every concession either to win its votes permanently or to bring it back to the fold. My father is
a Democrat; my grandfather was a Democrat and I dare say that his father was of the same party if
he ever came in off of the farm to vote. Naturally, in Presbyterian style, I am predestined to become a
Democrat. However, I don’t think I shall. Rather, I intend to vote the Republican ticket until the South comes to
break its phalanx. After that, if I chance to still be alive, the world will be mine in a little
way for I will know that even the mightiest of party leaders will outline their policies to suit me. Most
of the readers of this column are in the same position. If you want to have a little say as
to what goes on in this country, you had best follow the same program and become a temporary Republican.

W. L. L.
