_ THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

Personal

Dr. A. J. Crowell, of Charlotte, who is an honorary alumnus of Davidson College, has been elected president of the North Carolina State Board of Health. He will succeed the late Dr. Howell Way, '12, of Waynesville, N. C. Dr. C. C. Orr, '05, of Asheville, is also a member of the board, and Dr. W. S. Rankin, who attended the North Carolina Medical College when it was located at Davidson, is a former president of this organization.

Dr. C. F. Arrowood, '00, who has been assistant professor of Education at Rice Institute, Houston, Texas, has resigned to accept an appointment at the University of Texas as professor of History and Philosophy of Education. Dr. Arrowood will teach at Columbia University, in New York, during the summer months, and expects to visit Davidson next commencement en route to that point.

Rev. J. W. Weathers, Jr., '00, who has been pastor of a church near Chester, S. C., for many years, has accepted a call to Lexington, Va.

Dr. A. F. Tuttle, '02, of Spray, N. C., has been elected vice-president of the Imperial Trust and Savings Co., of Leakesville.

Friends will regret to learn of the death of J. A. Heilig, father of G. P. Heilig, '05, of Rockwell, N. C.

Major E. R. McKeithan, '00, of Fayetteville, former state senator and major

Alumni Council to Meet Friday Evening To Talk Over Financial Matters

Members of Council Will Discuss Plans for Wiping Out Deficit in Alumni Funds

Members of the Alumni Council, executive and governing board of the Davidson College Alumni Association, will meet at the college Friday evening at 7:30 o'clock for the purpose of discussing certain projects and problems now pending before the association. Financial matters will be discussed in detail, according to an announcement from the headquarters of the Alumni Association on the campus.

A report recently released by the Alumni Secretary reveals a deficit in the treasury of the Alumni office amounting to more than four hundred dollars, with more than five months still unprovided for. Only $1,497 has been received from alumni in payment of annual dues. This amount, coupled with the appropriation made by the college at the opening of college in September, leaves the total income of the Alumni office for the year more than four hundred dollars less than the amount which has been necessary for operating expenses.

An intensive effort is being made on the part of Alumni officials to secure a prompt remittance of dues from the more than three thousand alumni who have failed to respond. It is estimated that more than $2,500 will have to be raised between now and June 1st in order to provide funds for the continued operation of the Alumni office.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Mr. Roderick Kirkpatrick Shaw, Jr., '22, was married to Miss Catherine Elizabeth Bostick on the evening of January 18th, in an impressive ceremony performed at the Saint Paul’s Episcopal Church, in Quincy, Fla., the home of both the bride and groom. Miss Bostick, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Fuller Bostick, was a popular and attractive member of the younger social contingent of Quincy. After a wedding trip, Mr. and Mrs. Shaw returned to Quincy, where he and his bride will make their home.

Dr. and Mrs. William H. Shannon have announced the marriage of their daughter, Helen Amy, to Dr. Alexander Pierce Ormand, '21, on Tuesday evening, January 17th, at Coatesville, Pa. Dr. Ormand is engaged in the practice of medicine in Akron, Ohio, where he and his bride will make their home.

Mr. and Mrs. N. B. Mills, of Statesville, father and mother of L. N. Mills, '12, recently celebrated their golden wedding anniversary.

Address List Sent To All Alumni of College

Alumni Officials Seek Closer Fellowship Among Davidson Graduates

The Alumni office is endeavoring to develop a closer feeling between the different classes that have finished at Davidson, and are also making an effort to develop a similar feeling between Davidson alumni in all states of the union. To do this, the secretaries have been compiling two types of lists—those of each class, and one for each state, sending a copy to each individual member of the class, and to every person in each state.

Twelve state lists have been mailed out recently, and within the past eight months 32 class lists have been prepared and sent to alumni. The states for which lists have already been made are Alabama, Florida, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, New Jersey, New York, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, West Virginia, and the District of Columbia.

ALUMNI DEATHS

News has just reached the Alumni Office of the death of Mr. Zimri Monroe Faust, '63, who died athis home at 626 Broad Street, Burlington, N. C., on December 31st. At the time of his death, Mr. Faust had reached the advanced age of 92 years, and was one of the three oldest living Davidson alumni. He left Davidson in 1861 to join the Confederate army, and played a gallant part in the War Between the States, returning after Lee’s surrender to Burlington, where he resided until his death in December.

News dispatches appearing in numerous Carolina newspapers told of the sudden death of Rev. M. R. Kirkpatrick, ’73, at Montreat on the morning of January 24th. Rev. Mr. Kirkpatrick, formerly of Seneca, S. C., had held several important charges in the Southern Presbyterian Church, and for the past two years was in charge of the South Carolina Ministers’ Home at the Montreat Assembly grounds. He was 77 years of age. Interment was at Seneca, S. C.

Fayetteville has been mentioned again as a candidate for the state senate from the counties of Cumberland, Bladen, Brunswick, and Columbus. Mr. and Mrs. Query Pharr, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a daughter on January 26. Mr. Pharr is a member of the 1913 class.

Davidson Reporter Enlightens Fresh

For the edification of those few freshmen who are slightly hazy as to just what a cow is and those who have been led astray by frequent glances at familiar tobacco signs, the following treatise has been written:

The cow is a female quadruped with an alto voice and a countenance in which there is no guile. She collaborates with the pump in the production of a liquid called milk, provides the filler for hash, and at last is skinned by those she has benefitted, as mortals generally are. The young cow is called a calf and is used in the manufacture of chicken salad. The cow’s tail is mounted aft and has a universal joint. It is used to disturb marauding flies, and the tassel on the end has unique educational value. Persons who milk cows and come often in contact with the tassel have vocabularies of peculiar and impressive force.

The cow has two stomachs. The one on the ground floor is used as a warehouse and has no other function. When one is filled, the cow retires to a quiet place where her ill manners will occasion no comment and devotes herself to belching. The raw material thus conveyed for the second time to the interior of her face is pulverized and delivered to the auxiliary stomach, where it is converted into cow. The cow has no upper plate. All of her teeth are parked in the lower part of her face. This arrangement was perfected by an efficiency expert to keep her from gumming things up. As a result, she bites up and gums down.

The male cow is called a bull and is lassoed along the Colorado, fought south of the Rio Grande, and shot in the vicinity of the Potomac. A slice of cow is worth 8 cents in the cow, 14 cents in the hands of the packers, and $2.40 in a restaurant in atmosphere.

We have at all times

New Orthophonic Victrolas
Brunswick Panatropes
Victor and Brunswick Records
A Complete Line of RCA Radios from $69.50 to $895
Parker-Gardner Co.

A complete stock of records and also Brunswick Records every Friday.

Distinguished by a favor that places it first, it is a natural pride that Camel feels for its triumphs. Not only did it lead the field shortly after its introduction, it passed steadily on with each succeeding year until today it holds a place in public favor higher than any other smoke ever reached. Camel is supreme with modern smokers. Obviously, there is a quality here that particular smokers appreciate. It is indeed the myriad qualities of perfection that are to be found in the choicest tobaccos grown. And the art of blending that unfolds each delicate taste and fragrance. You will more than like Camels. You will find a solace in them every smoking hour. Their mildness and mellowness are an endless pleasure. “Have a Camel!”

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. © 1927