THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 10, 1928

“I Have Slept With Him Many a Time”

“Roommates?”
“No. Classmates.”

“What’ll I give Gloria for her birthday?”
“Does she smoke?”
“Yes, three packs a day.”
“Then give her some sheet music.”

Northwestern Purple carrot, Gleaned by the Campus Wit

(Feature Editor’s Note: These jokes are all guaranteed to be at least ten years old. “The Campus Wit,” in perusing over some old copies of “The Davidson College Magazine” ran over these jokes printed in issues in which two of our English professors were contending to see which could write the more poetry. They are all, therefore, musty—not in language, but in age.)

Never trust to the old, old saying,
Distance makes the heart grow fonder,
But give heed to what I tell you,
Absence gives it time to wander.

* * * *

Another One:
Absence makes the heart grow fonder—of someone else.

* * * *

(Sorry, old top, but we couldn’t print this one.)

* * * *

“My heart is with the ocean!” cried the rapturous poet.
“You do me one better,” replied his seasick friend as he took a firmer grasp upon the rail.

* * * *

Sleepy: “Set the alarm for four.”
Ole Lady: “Us and who else?”

* * * *

Onward, onward, Time in thy flight,
Make the bell ring
Before I recite.

* * * *

She fell with a light sigh into his arms. Her head tilted backward and their lips met. She turned her head and spoke.
“You understand that I have never done such a thing as this before?”
“Yes, but what an awful lot you inherited from someone.”

Since 1868 The Home of Good Shoes

* * * *

The early bird doesn’t miss chapel.

* * * *

Light Economy
Ed: “Do you know that turning down the gas saves matches?”
Co-Ed: “No, I thought that turning down the gas frequently made matches.”
Moral: Turning off an electric light often causes sparking. Turning off a gas light causes an increase in pressure. Increase of pressure causes a lessening of the waste.

* * * *

No need to pay any more for shoes when a man can get Quality Shoes at Gilmer-Moore Co. Here, a firm that has served Davidsonians for years and years, and a firm that has been known as offering only Shoes of Quality.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Gilmer-Moore Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

If You Want Your Frat Pin Back
Take Her a Bag o’ Lance’s Salted Peanuts
Lance Packing Co., Inc.
Charlotte, N. C.

Proboscides Cause Much Face Lifting

When something unusual makes its appearance in this world, even the most youthful will ask its purpose. There are some things, however, that we see every day but yet do not stop to think about their purpose. This is true in the case of noses. Every time we look in the mirror we see that same, old monotonous nose. We see noses all over the world; noses, noses and more noses. Yet we never inquire into their purpose.

Noses, known in the case of man as first made to pry into other people’s business and have been used for that purpose ever since, notwithstanding the fact that many secondary uses for the nose have been discovered. For instance, somebody found out that the nose could sometimes be used to detect odors (both pleasant and odious). Some people find the nose very convenient for keeping the left eye from seeing what the right eye is looking at while others can’t find anything for it to do but to add to their sophisticated appearance.look by supporting eye glasses. Then there are those people who don't like to disarrange their hair and they find it very convenient to scratch their noses instead of their head. In the case of the pugilist, the nose is exclusively reserved for something to punch at. (We get pug proboscides, olfactors, snouts, etc., from an abbreviated form of pugilist.) The nose is the convention hall for the well-known animals more vulgarly called. Thus, it has been a drawing card for barbers to massage, while in the case of women, it has spoiled their whole day.

Junior Speaking had been more or less a success. But alas, it was not so for her. Tom had not paid her his usual attention, and there was news that another of the fiercer sex had been added to the list of Tom's feminine friends. Min wondered why Tom had been so negligent during the day. Poor thing! She doesn’t know all that Doc Charley does. She doesn’t realize that she is afflicted with that unrealized malady, Halitosis. Doc Charley avers that that is the trouble, but he dares not mention it. That’s the insidious thing about halitosis. Even Tom himself cannot bring himself around to mention such a personal thing to her. If Min would only use a little Blisterine or perhaps a few tablets of April Breath, she could be free from all the embarrassment and loneliness and could rest assured that Tom would not fall victim to the fragrant breath of the newcomer.

Again, there is a certain class of people who do nothing with their nose but keep it to the grindstone. Some people also use their nose to dirty perfectly clean handkerchiefs, while others cut their nose off to spite their faces (some noses spite the face without being cut off). The nose is also a convenient gauge for telling by its redness just how spirited one is. If anyone has a poetic nature, the nose, as a delicate and artistic organ, offers much inspiration for poetry of the more cultured type since there is a great abundance of words that rhyme with it: rose, close, flows, froze, mose, goes, hose, foes, rows, knows, lows, crows, bows, blows, throes, and throws. These words are not copyrighted and may be used on the condition that all productions be contributed to this page. Hand in your poem immediately.

Noses were red,
Eyesockets were blue,
I was all wet,
When I got you.

As she looked in the mirror,
She had to confess,
The end of her nose,
Was a shining success.

An Optimist: The man who says upon arising: "My, my, it won’t be but sixteen hours till I can tumble in again."

A Pessimist: "Blame! Eight hours passed that quick."

Yes, Sir, P.A. G.1928, BJ, Reveals on every count. Any way you figure it, P. A. is better tobacco. Take fragrance, for instance. Your well-known olfactory organ will tell you. And taste—who can describe that? And mildness—you couldn’t ask for anything milder. Long-burning, with a good clean ash. You never tire of P.A. It’s always the same old friendly smoke. Get yourself a tidy red tin and check everything I’m telling you!

PRINCE ALBERT—no other tobacco is like it.