THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1928

Rutgers Takes Debate by Two-to-One Decision

In the debate with Rutgers on Thursday night of last week, Murray Christian and Lawrence Dumas presented a good argument
for the affirmative, but Rutgers won the decision by a two-to-one vote. The debate was good all throughout and both
teams presented a splendid argument for their respective sides.

The Davidson men upheld the affirmative side of the question and Rutgers the negative. The Rutgers debaters were William Barr
and Fred Hall. The query for the discussion was, “Resolved, That the United States Should Cease to Protect by Force
of Arms Capital Invested in Foreign Lands Except After a Formal Declaration of War.”

In upholding the affirmative side of this query, the Davidson team presented the argument that the present policy is not
satisfactory and that a remedy that would be more effective would be the substitution of the World Court idea instead
of the present policy. Murray Christian, the first speaker for Davidson, showed the evils of the present policy and the
various defects and weaknesses of the foreign political and diplomatic system of the United States under this policy. The second
speaker presented the idea of the substitution of a World Court plan to serve instead of the present policy. In
his speech, Dumas showed how many of the present evils occurring under the policy used at present would be erased
and the defects and weaknesses corrected. Thus, a much quicker and entirely peaceful settlement would be enacted and there would
be a great deal of advantage and profit to both nations concerned.

The Rutgers men, Barr and Hall, presented and reviewed the present policy of the United States—that of immediate military intervention.
They discussed the advantages of this policy and stated that its strongest point was that it had been tried, whereas
the proposed idea was only a theoretical plan and the cost would be too great to the United States government
and the people to experiment without any absolute guarantee.

Both sides presented good arguments and all the speeches were delivered in splendid style. Although the audience was not a
very large one, the debates received much encouragement and appreciation from the floor. Prof. C. K. Brown presided over the
debate and Riggs McConnell acted as timekeeper. Professor Schenck delivered the invocation. The judges were from Charlotte.

STATE SECRETARY OF Y
(Continued from page 1)

...very center of His personality and is of every great character. Then, too, Jesus is attractive because He shows us
what God is like. In Him are shown the divine attributes of forgiveness, especially in speaking to the thief on
the cross and in talking with the Samaritan woman.

In another way, Jesus draws men to Himself, for He gives to each the power of attaining the ideals which
He holds up before men. Yet there is an element of exclusiveness involved in following Jesus, for He, like everyone
else, cannot be known in a crowd. The individual must step out of the crowd to know and follow Jesus.

This following of Jesus calls for all that is heroic in a man’s character. Although the follower may sometimes think
the way is dark, Jesus will reveal His true way of life and His true personality if only given a
chance through the believer's sincerity and honesty.

(Continued from page 1)

...the violin solo by C. C. Orr; and the Wildcat Quartet. Glee Club has taken this year. It will probably
be given at Davidson in the near future. This trip concludes the foreign engagements of the Glee Club, although it
is possible that a few one-night stands in nearby cities may be arranged.

"I'm not going to step out with Hazel any more."
"Why not?"
"She didn’t invite me to her wedding."—Oregon Orange Owl.

The same night, Henry Powell and Tyree Dillard debated in the last meet of their tour in Atlanta. The Rutgers
team was also on tour, having met Duke University and North Carolina State in debates with the same query during
their trip. The debate with Duke was won by the Duke team. Rutgers upheld the affirmative side and Duke argued
for the negative in this match.

This was the last debate of the season.

Charlotte, N. C.

The Commercial National Bank
Has stood the test of time and stands ready to serve your banking needs.
4% interest paid on Certificate of Deposit.
Trust Department under supervision of United States Government.
Make us your Executor.

OFFICERS
Capital, surplus, profits, etc., over $1,300,000.00.
DUNN, President
JOHNSTON, Vice-President
R.A. DUNN, Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
W. A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Cashier
M. T. WILLIAMS, Assistant Cashier
HENDRIX, Assistant Cashier

CREDENZA, $300.00
The New PHONIC VICTROLA
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

EFIRD’S BANQUET
(Continued from page...1) A violin solo, accompanied by Mr. Mobley. The program consisted of three toasts and three speeches. Murray
Christian, of Mobile, Ala., gave a toast to the guests of honor; H. D. Erwin, of Erwin, Tenn., a toast
to Davidson, while Joe Gardner, of Chattanooga, Tenn., toasted the Class of '30. Mr. Kuester made a short inspirational talk
on educational opportunities. Professor Foreman, admirably returning the witty sallies of the toastmaster, gave a “simile” talk on a comparison
between the banquet board and life. Dr. Watts, who has had much experience in foreign universities, spoke to the class
on their relations with the Freshman class. The banquet closed as the class, with hands linked, sang “O, Davidson.” The
banquet room was beautifully decorated with the class colors, blue and white, pervading. An engraved program was placed at each
plate.

Several Alumni Present Books to Union Library

Within the month the library has been graciously remembered by five Davidson men, widely scattered from each other. Mr. J.
N. Van Devanter, 1915, with Mrs. Van Devanter, of Albuquerque, New Mexico, sent a copy of BORDEN OF YALE, especially
for the reading room. Mr. R. M. Menzies, 1927, associated with Harper Bros., of New York City, sent BLACK MAJESTY,
by Vandercook, on the date of its release, March 5th. Rev. F. W. Price, 1915, of Hangchow College, Zakow, Che,
China, has directed that a copy of SAN MIN CHU I, translated into English by Mr. Price, be forwarded to
the library by the publishers. This book has not yet arrived. The work of translating was done during Mr. Price’s
enforced vacation in Korea, last spring and summer.

FACULTY LINGUISTS (Continued from page 1)

minutes on two consecutive evenings. The schools of the state and contains an equal number of boys and girls. All
instruments, including eight cellos and a harp, were included. Dr. Reed Smith, 1901, professor of English at the University of
South Carolina, has had forwarded to us a copy of THE OPEN ROAD TO READING, of which he is the
author. Dr. Smith will also issue a book of popular ballads within the next few weeks, through the Harvard University
Press. Dr. Howard Banks, 1888, Editor of THE CHRIST LIFE, published at Cleveland, Ohio, a monthly magazine, has entered it.

JOHN MELTON (Continued from page 1)

that he would announce his cabinet in a short while. The president of the “Y” has many duties to perform,
among them being heading the “Y” work in all phases, being in charge of the “Y” deputations, and presiding at
the “Y” elections. Johnnie Melton comes from Decatur, Ga. He originally entered Davidson with the present Senior class, but was
forced to withdraw for a year by unavoidable circumstances. Melton is a member of the Athletic Association and a wearer
of the “D,” making his letter in football and in track. Last year he was elected one of the vice-presidents
of the Athletic Association. Melton has been active in “Y” work from the time that he entered Davidson and this
year was on the “Y” Cabinet, being in charge of boys’ work. He was a strong contender for the president
of the student body, losing out only on the final ballot. Melton is a member of the Kappa Sigma National
Fraternity.

Frank Brown is from Salisbury, North Carolina, and a member of the class of thirty. Brown made his letter in
wrestling this year, although only a Sophomore. This fall he was elected secretary and treasurer of the Sophomore class when
the man who had been elected to this position last spring failed to return to college. He was also toastmaster
at the Sophomore banquet held recently.

Zeb Long is also a North Carolina boy, coming from Statesville. He is a member of the Reporters’ Club, and
was recently taken into Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha National
Fraternity.

The Head Man

Come on over—bring your pipe. In our hall, there’s no question about who’s head man. It’s Prince Albert. You'll find
it in any room you wander into. It’s all you'll ever be offered. And that’s hospitality, if you ask me.
What a treat it is, too. Fragrant and inviting. Cool as a reprimand. Comforting as a perfect alibi. Mellow and
mild and long-burning, no matter how often you load up and light up. You’re in good company when you smoke
P. A. The world’s most experienced smokers have placed this one brand first.

PRINCE ALBERT

You can’t beat P. A. for deep-down satisfaction—no other tobacco is like it! © 1928, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
