THEDAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 12, 1928 No. 15

OFFICIALS CALL FOR BIDS ON CHAMBERS BUILDING

Military Unit Shows Up Favorably As Inspectors View Local Group

Major-General Davis, Commander of Area, Receives Review

LUNCHEON TENDERED

War Department Inspection Set for First Week in April to Determine National Rating

Davidson's “esprit de corps” came in for high praise on January 4th when high army officials visited the college for an informal inspection of the R. O. T. C. unit. Maj. Gen. Richmond P. Davis, commanding officer of the Fourth Corps Area, with headquarters at Fort McPherson, Georgia, included Davidson in his rapid review of all the military units in the Carolinas and Georgia, and during his visit here was highly pleased with the interest taken by the cadets in the military work.

In addition to General Davis, Davidson was host to Maj. H. J. Maloney, R. O. T. C. officer of the Fourth Corps Area, who made his annual inspection visit on the same day that General Davis was here. Major Maloney arrived during the morning of the 4th and was shown the type of classroom work conducted here for cadets. Following that, he inspected the armory and equipment, pronouncing it in excellent condition, and took a look at the various firing ranges at the college. Major Maloney also (Continued on page 8)

Peter’s Declaration of Faith is Carter's Theme

Forceful Preacher Gives Clean-Cut Message in First 1928 Vesper Service

“All learning is a vain endeavor to comprehend the truth until we have come into personal contact with the greatest of all personalities, Jesus Christ,” declared the Rev. J. H. Carter, of Taylorsville, speaking at “Y” Vespers last Sunday night, in Shearer Hall. A noble and straightforward profession of faith by the outspoken fisherman, Peter, furnished the theme of the message. This declaration of allegiance given at a crucial moment in Christ’s ministry when His followers were deserting Him, was: “Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God.”

First of all, Mr. Carter said, Peter realized that he must go somewhere; to stand still meant stagnation. An irresistible force was pushing him on to a choice, to the Supreme Alternative of his life. Where was he to go if he chose not to follow the way of Jesus any longer? Could he find any other way to salvation and happiness? The apostle, if dissatisfied, might have gone over to the sect of the Sadducees, the rationalists of their day. But they, he would find, were treating man as a mere mind as some people are trying to do today. Although we should never do anything to throttle the processes of the human mind, we must realize that it is not the only faculty given man by God. Man must use his whole personality in his search for truth.

Then, Peter might also have gone to join the ranks of the ceremonial Pharisees, who were really obscuring truth by their nearsighted view of services and elaborate ritual. (Continued on page 8)

NORRIS TROPHY

Announcement was made yesterday that the Norris Trophy Cup, awarded each year to the athlete who has contributed greatest to Davidson sports during the past year, will be put on display at the White Drug Store at once. The outstanding athletes will be voted on later in the spring and the successful man announced on the annual Athletic Night. This award, given by the Norris Candy Co., of Atlanta, was won by Ernest Bohannon last year.

Shewmake’s Study Of Speech Praised

Dr. E. F. Shewmake, head of the English Department of the College, is the author of a recent publication entitled “English Pronunciation in Virginia.” This is the second noteworthy work of the present year which Dr. Shewmake has brought forth, having been one of the authors of “College English Composition.” This study of English pronunciation in Virginia was accepted in 1920 by the faculty of the University of Virginia as a doctrinal dissertation. Professor Hans Kurath, of Ohio State University, a nationally recognized authority on the subject, says concerning the study, “It is doubtless the best monograph on Southern pronunciation we have.” Part of the work dealing with the dialectal pronunciation of ou and i was published in slightly modified form in Modern Language Notes in December, 1925. This study of speech in the Old Dominion has six chapter divisions covering 45 pages, consisting of Introduction, Previous Studies of Virginia English, English Pronunciation of the Past, English Pronunciation of the Present, Virginia Pronunciation in Literature (Continued on page 8)

Rusk Honored As Fresh President

Dean Rusk was elected president of the Freshman class at a meeting Monday night, in Shearer Hall. Rusk was chosen from a field of six men, and was elected after the second ballot. The men nominated for the presidency of the class were: Dean Rusk, Archie McLean, Pete Glidewell, Buster Shepard, Dan LaFar, and Dan Goodykoontz. After the first ballot, the three high men were Rusk, Glidewell, and McLean, with a vote of 63, 20, and 20, respectively. On the second ballot Rusk won out with a total of 83 votes, McLean got 30 and Glidewell 25. All of the men nominated were put forward by the Student Council Nominating Committee and no men were nominated from the floor. The rest of the officers of the class will be elected at some meeting in the future, it being decided to postpone their election by a majority vote of the class. As soon as their president has been sworn into the Student Council the Freshmen will automatically become members of the Student Body and will be entitled to vote in all

Committee Recommends That Fraternities Move Back To Campus

Houses Move Made to Better College Conditions

BOARD IS FINAL JUDGE

Houses Will Be Built in Designated Area and Rented to Chapters

All of Davidson's social fraternities will be moved into houses on the campus, if the decision which was reached by a committee of faculty members and five members of the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees meets with the approval of the general Board at their meeting in February. This group met here recently to consider this question of fraternity housing after detailed investigations had been carried on among the different organizations. The decision at this meeting was that the college life as a whole would be improved with the removal of the fraternities from the houses which they have occupied for the past three years. Those who have been in close touch with the situation believe, without a doubt, that the recommendation as presented to the Executive Committee of the Board will be passed and that no changes will be made in the plans as five of the nine members were at this recent meeting. It is the present expectation to have the fraternities back on the Hill by next year, even though a great amount of construction (Continued on page 5)

Six Prominent Speakers On Vocational Program

Six Weeks Beginning February 15 Designated as Time for Conducting Institute Here

Plans are being developed by the Y. M.Student Body elections. They had not been granted this privilege before due to a clause in the Constitution of the Student Body that prohibited them from being considered a part of that body until after the election of their president. Dean Rusk is a pledge to the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, he is also a basketball star, a Davidsonian reporter, the local representative of the State Intercollegiate Press Association, and holds a position at the local (Continued on page 5) Y. M. C. A. for the Vocational Guidance Institute. For the benefit of the new men who have not experienced the active work of the Institute, the organization is conducted by the Y. M. C. A. for the purpose of helping college men decide on their future vocation. The institution is not local to Davidson, but is a recent movement including in its scope a large number of the colleges of the South. Davidson, however, has taken the lead in the field and this year undertakes possibly one of the most extensive programs ever attempted. The meetings will begin on Wednesday evening, February 15th, and will continue on every Wednesday night for six weeks. During this time six of the most important vocations will be considered as extensively as possible. The six professions which will be given particular attention are Business, Law, the Ministry, Medicine, Education, and Journalism. Mr. Weiseca, of the Southern Bell Telephone Company, from Atlanta, will probably introduce the Institute. Mr. Weiseca is greatly interested in Davidson, has made visits to the college and has procured positions in the company for Davidson men. The Institute will procure one man to talk on each profession, who is outstanding in his field. About seven or eight, mostly Davidson men, are being considered for each profession. Such men as Smith Richardson, president of Vicks Salve Company, and McAllister Carson, of the Independence Trust Company, of Charlotte, are being considered for talking on Business. A group of very prominent men in the field of Law are being (Continued on page 8).

1928 CAPTAIN Lewis McColgan McColgan Elected To Pilot Wildcats Lewis McColgan, of Norton, Va., who was given honorable mention on several all-state selections, will captain the 1928 Wildcat football team, as decided at a recent meeting of letter men. Ed Wilson, of Charlotte, was chosen to act as alternate captain. McColgan, despite early season injuries, did fine work in the line for Davidson this past season. Though this year was his first on the varsity, yet he was easily the most outstanding and consistent man in the line, and was noted for his fighting spirit. This is the first time in several seasons that the honor of captain has been given to a lineman. McColgan is a guard, and belongs to Kappa Alpha. Wilson, who has served for the past two years in the Davidson backfield, stands out as one of the finest field generals in North Carolina’s Big Five conference. His fine work throughout last season, and especially in the Carolina game, will be long remembered by Davidson football supporters. Wilson is noted for his passing ability and his clear thinking on the field. W. H. Mauze was elected manager of the varsity for next year, after three years of service as assistant. E. C. Close, R. C. Wells, and S. Y. Cassells, from the Sophomore class, were elected as assistants, with Z. V. Long as alternate. The first three named will work during the 1928 season, at the end of which one will be chosen by the team.

Beginnings of a Hebrew University have been inaugurated in Jerusalem. Lord Balfour performed the opening ceremony. Work in some of the departments has already begun. The university is primarily for Jews and the official language will be Hebrew, but members of any race will be accepted as students.

TRAINS CHANGED Recent changes of train schedules through Davidson have caused quite a bit of confusion in mailing letters, and so the time of arrival of mail-carrying trains, with recent changes, is given below: To Charlotte: 9:40 a.m., 4:58 p.m. From Charlotte: 2:58 a.m., 7:58 a.m., 2:33 p.m.

North Wing of Building Will Be Ready For Use By First of September Efforts to Raise a Remaining Hundred Thousand Continued $5,000 GIFT RECEIVED Gastonia Patrons Give Memorial Room as Campaign for $300,000 Nears Close It has been definitely announced by college authorities that work will be begun at the earliest possible date on the construction of the remaining two units of the new Chambers building. Bids have been called for to be put in by February 1st, and a number of contracting companies are expected to bid. After the awarding of the contract, work will be started on the north wing of the building, which will contain the laboratories and additional offices. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, states that he expects this unit of the building to be ready for use by next September. Construction of the middle unit will follow this immediately, thus completing the work that was begun about two years ago and that will represent an outlay of about $600,000 when finished. At the present time there is something over $300,000 on hand with which to begin the work. The entire amount which will be needed will come to about $400,000, and the (Continued on page 8).

Banner Elk Fund Grows As Students Contribute Pre-Christmas Contributions Augmented by Recent Additions to Fund for School In the recent pledge drive among the student body for funds for the Banner Elk Mountain School, around nine hundred dollars was raised. This money was pledged by the students and is to be paid on or before April 1st of this year. The goal set was one thousand dollars, and nearly all this amount has been pledged and in the final collection of pledges which are yet unreturned it is estimated and hoped that the goal will be reached. James Appleby, the “Y” secretary, is conducting a drive under his personal supervision among the members of the faculty, and enough money to make up the amount needed to reach the final goal is expected from this source. About one hundred and sixty dollars of the money pledged has already been paid in cash and many of the pledges are being and will be paid up as time goes on so that it is expected that April 1st will find most or all of the money already paid up. In a recent letter to Jim Appleby, Edgar Tufts, the former Davidson student who is in charge of the Banner Elk work, expressed his thanks for the work already done and stated his great faith in the students of Davidson College to always liberally aid in a cause of this kind and to continue the many good works which have been a feature of the student body here in former years. He explained more fully the use that the money will be put to, and said there were already many places that it could fill. The fund is to be used for scholarships in the Banner Elk Mountain School at Banner Elk, N. C. These scholarships are to consist of fifty dollars each. (Continued on page 3).