THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 23, 1928

“Did you ever play poker with a bridge hand?”
“No, and neither did you.”
“Oh, yes I have. He worked for a construction company.”
—Ohio State Sun Dial.

“Papa, what is a man with foresight?”
“My son, that is a man who takes a rattlesnake along as an antidote when he goes out on a modern drinking party.”
—Arizona Kittykat.

Hopeless:
“Have you heard of the persecution of the Jews in Missouri?”
Sure, they’ve been blasting all the Levys.
—West Point Pointer.

PEANUT PARCHER PROMPTED FROM THE BACK SEAT

The driver of a Ford sedan, who was plainly out of his element in city traffic, attempted to turn around in the middle of a block, and was side-swiped and upset by a hook and ladder fire truck on its way to answer a call.

Striding over to the overturned vehicle, a traffic officer poked his head through the broken window and demanded, “What do you mean by blocking traffic like this? C’mon outta there; you’re pinched!”
“You let him alone!" said a female voice from the back seat. “How did we know them drunken painters were going to run into us?”
—Goblin.

“Why do they call them student suicides?”
“Because they’re just practicing.”
—Pitt Panther.

“Don’t get crackers in the soup. It is against the rules of etiquette.”
“Say, what’s etiquette?”
—Arizona Kittykat.

“No wonder he’s a sheik—he’s got a clean title to his flivver.”
“Yeah, and a bunch of dirty subtitles on it.”
—California Pelican.

“Thank you for the hug and kiss.”
“The same to you—the pressure was all mine.”
“Don’t get fresh or I'll chase you home.”
“I have no home.”
“Watch out or I'll dig you one.”
—Rutgers Chanticleer.

A collegian is a man who has acquired the technique of successfully asking for a cigarette.
—Wisconsin Octopus.

Sociology Prof: What is the most downtrodden race?
Sleepy Student: The pedestrian.
—Drexel.

SORROWS OF A STONE AGE STENO

The boss came in with a peach of a grouch. Tossing his club into a corner he bellowed:
“Take a letter to the landlord. ‘Dear Sir: This is the last time I’m going to ask you to get this place fixed up period unless you have that flock of saber-toothed tigers chased out of the next cave before the end of the week you can start looking around for another tenant semicolon I’m tired of trying to get anything done with those this-and-that cats yowling all day.’”
“Oh, Mr. Ug! Please don’t go so fast! I’ve already broken my best chisel and smashed three fingers!”
—Goblin.

She: Am I your father?
He: No, why?
She: Then quit pawin’ me.
—Chicago Phoenix.

Teacher: Abie, give us a sentence using the word inkwell.
Abie: I can’t, teacher, I am not feeling well today.
—Wisconsin Octopus.

Girls who went in bathing years ago used to dress like Mother Hubbard. Now they dress like Mother Hubbard’s cupboard.
—Arizona Kittykat.

“Y” Column

The speaker at the “Y” this Sunday will be Pat Crawford, who is one of the most well-known and popular of the alumni of Davidson. While here Pat was one of the very outstanding men on the campus in every way. He was captain of baseball and basketball, and was an all-state man in both sports. He was all-South Atlantic in basketball. Besides this, he was president of the “Y” and an O.D.K. man. After graduation, he was coach for Gastonia High School, and was very successful while there. He is at present coach for Guilford College, this being his first year there. He has played for both Charlotte and Greenville, in the South Atlantic baseball league, and was sold to both Louisville and Chattanooga, but refused to play for these teams because of Sunday baseball. He is at present under pending contract with the New York Giants, who are very anxious to secure his services.

Pat is one of the best examples of fine Christian manhood that could be found, and the “Y” feels that vespers this week will be one of the best services of the whole year. By all means hear Pat—without a doubt it will be well worth your time. This is a great opportunity, so make the most of it, and turn out for “Y” next Sunday.

There are still some books left from the shipment that came in the other week, and if you boys have not as yet looked over this lot, do so. There are many valuable volumes in them, that many fellows could use to great advantage. Drop by and ask to see them.

Just as a matter of statistics—150 men heard Dr. Ben Lacy’s appeal for the ministry as a life work.

And over 100 men had interviews with the various visitors during the week. Results such as these are very gratifying to the “Y” and its officers, and make them feel that the “Y” is meaning much to the student body.

“Noises in my head keep me awake.”
“That’s impossible!”
“How so?”
“You can’t transmit sound through a vacuum.”
—Texas Ranger.

“Wanna go datin’ Thursday night?”
“Naw, gettin’ married Thursday night. How about Friday?”
—Penn. State Froth.

“Thought you were going to get a new automobile, Dad?”
“Well, you see, I decided to come down for homecoming instead.”
—Notre Dame Juggler.

WHY SO MANY SMOKERS HAVE CHANGED TO CHESTERFIELD...

WE STATE it as our honest belief that the tobaccos used in Chesterfield cigarettes are of finer quality and hence of better taste than in any other cigarette at the price.

Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

...and what’s more—
THEY’RE MILD
and yet THEY SATISFY!