Page Four. THE DAVIDSONIAN December 13, 1928

ALUMNI NEWS

DAVIDSON ALUMNUS SELECTED TO GIVE SPRUNT LECTURES

Rev. Walter L. Lingle, D.D., President of Assembly Training School, is Choice

PROMINENT LEADER

Theme of Lectures Will Be, “The Bible and Social Problems.” — Eight Will Be Delivered, Beginning January 11th

Rev. Walter L. Lingle, D.D., ’92, president of the Assembly Training School, Richmond, Va., has been signally honored by Union
Theological Seminary, located at the same place, when he was chosen by the authorities to deliver the Sprunt lectures at
that institution. These lectures constitute one of the most important phases of the scholastic sessions. Each year one of the
leading and outstanding ministers of the Southern Presbyterian Church is called to Richmond for this purpose, and the seminary authorities
wisely chose a man who is one of the prominent leaders. In addition to his work in Richmond, Dr. Lingle
is president of the Davidson College Board of Trustees and a former moderator of the General Assembly.

Dr. Lingle has chosen for his theme, “The Bible and Social Problems,” and will begin his series of dissertations on
Friday, January 11th, the subject of the first lecture being “Some Definitions.” The schedule of the remaining discussions follows: January
13th, “God's Ideal of the World”; January 14th, “Jesus’ Sermon on the Kingdom”; January 15th, “The Bible and Money”; January
16th, “The Bible and Poverty”; January 17th, “The Bible and the Family”; January 18th, “The Bible and War”; and January
20th, “The Church and Social Reform.”

Alumni Marriages

Alexander-Rockfield

Harry Young Alexander, graduate of Davidson in the class of 1926, was married to Miss Mary Julia Rockfield, at the
latter’s home in Badin, on Wednesday afternoon, December 5th, Rev. R. M. Hauss, pastor of the Methodist church, officiating. Following
a trip north Mr. and Mrs. Alexander will be at home in Greensboro. Mr. Alexander, whose home was at Derita
when he entered Davidson College, formed connections with the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company after his graduation, and has
been in the employ of these people since leaving college. He was located in several cities during the past two
years, having served for short periods in Atlanta, Charlotte, and Winston-Salem. He is still with this corporation, with the branch
in Greensboro.

Williamson-Hicks

William Vardell Williamson, ’27, was married to Miss Bertha Baldwin Hicks, at the latter’s home in Biscoe, on Thursday night,
December 6th, the ceremony being performed by Rev. F. B. Peele, of Fairmont. After their wedding trip they will make
their home in Raleigh. Mr. Williamson, who entered Davidson from Fayetteville, remained here two years and then went to North
Carolina State College, where he will receive his degree next June. He is a nephew of Dr. and Mrs. W.
J. Martin, of Davidson.

STUDENT REVIEWS (Continued from page 1)

enjoyed a long and successful run and where they will doubtless return as soon as Mr. McCutchan has finished his
informing and educational Oriental series. This sentence is typical of Mr. McCutchan’s style: “Still the burglar spoke not.” And it
is odd perhaps, that after sitting spell-bound and speechless for several hours completely unable to move, a mere word from
a policeman is sufficient to arouse the burglar to sudden action. The conversation between Antoine Pierre Lombette and the servant
is absurd, ineffective, and silly. Mr. Covington maintains his usual easy, flowing style, and if you go in for this
kind of thing, “That Game With State” is up to standard. It is, of course, just another college story. With
the exception of the two useless contractions in the last paragraph, Mr. Covington’s prose poem, “Mistrust,” is superior to those
written for last year’s Chameleon by Johnny McKnight.

Alumni Personals

Friends will regret to learn of the death of John Frank Hall, ’15, son of Rev. J. K. Hall, ’87,
of Belmont. This was the second death in Mr. Hall’s family recently, Miss Connie Hall, a daughter, dying on November
18th. The former’s death was on December 3rd.

Rev. R. Murphy Williams, ’96, of Greensboro, has been elected vice-president of the Greensboro Ministerial Association.

Dr. I. A. Yow, ’07 (North Carolina Medical College), of Concord, has been chosen as vice-president of the Cabarrus Medical
Society.

R. E. Henderson, ’93, of Charlotte, has retired as a member of the Mecklenburg Board of County Commissioners.

Rev. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., ’06, of Richmond, Va., was recently the principal speaker at Peace Institute in Raleigh
when several new buildings were dedicated.

The formation of a new athletic conference, to be known as the Southeastern North Carolina High School conference, was perfected
at Fayetteville recently, the body choosing C. R. Hunter, ’25, of Elizabethtown, as president. Mr. Hunter, principal of the schools
at Elizabethtown, is Forrest J. Wright, ’22, of Winston-Salem, is vice-president and in charge of insurance of the new firm
in Winston-Salem, known as the Pilot Company, which was formed by the merger of the Cobb-Noble Co., and the Pilot
Real Estate Company.

Rev. Robert W. Miles, ’11, pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Lynchburg, Va., has been selected as secretary of
the Lynchburg Ministerial Union.

Dr. Neal Anderson, ’85, pastor of the Independent Presbyterian Church at Savannah, Ga., has published a little book entitled, “With
Wings,” which is an account of his trip over the European countries in an airplane this past summer.

It was with regret that friends learned of the death of T. C. Myers, father of Dr. John Q. Myers,
’06, (N. C. Medical College), of Charlotte.

E. L. Cox, Jr., ’26, is a member of a new corporation known as the Pink Hill Cemeteries, Inc., of
Raleigh.

Rev. W. S. Golden, ’13, pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Richmond, Va., has accepted a call to the
Presbyterian church at Sanford, and will take up his duties at his new post in January.

“Lady Luck”

“Lady Luck,” by Paul Wynburn (who can he be?) is a page and a half of unadulterated bull with an
absurdly grotesque sense of humor, for instance: “Kept wiggling his mouth around as if he wanted to spit out a
tooth.” “Playthings” (J. Wilson McCutchan again) is one of those awful things (you know them) put together and kept together
solely through the intervention of a number of kindly disposed asterisks. It may be playthings to some people, but it’s
too much for us. Dr. Frazier Hood's typical quotation at the beginning of McQueen’s “Bookworm's Guide” is its only readable
feature. The author has missed an exceptional opportunity to have done something really worthwhile. The woeful lack of drama in
the Chameleon is emphasized by the publication of “The King is Just.”

Book Reviews

The book reviews, with the exception of Boggess’ “O'Neill,” (which, as a matter of fact is neither book review nor
critical estimate) are decidedly better than the average. Boggess has succeeded admirably in saying nothing in a style which is
completely incomprehensible. Its only decent sentence is the last one, which the author has misquoted from a current issue of
“Life.”

In defense of the Chameleon, however, it may be as truthfully said that the magazine is representative of the best
contemporary effort on the campus. It is unfortunate that literary activity at Davidson has reached such a low ebb. But
in justice to other literary publications of the state it should be admitted by the Davidson Student Body that the
Chameleon, unfortunate as it is, cannot be called literary. The fault is altogether with the student body; the editor and
his staff are in no wise to blame for the Chameleon’s present disability.

GLEE CLUB (Continued from page 1)

consulting with each other, the decision reached by the judges was: First Duke; Second, Guilford; Third, Davidson. On Friday, after
spending part of the afternoon in Greensboro, the Club arrived in Winston-Salem in time to take supper at Salem College.
After the concert there that night they left for Davidson.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers
BARNETT and COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.Rearranged at the last minute, the Quartet was well received all along the trip. E. Z. Dubose, being
unable to make the trip because of sickness, left the place of baritone on the quartet vacant, but R. S.
Abernathy, second tenor on the quartet, shifted down to baritone while C. C. Clark took the lead. A. J. Thompson’s
saxophone solo went over well and was encored in nearly every concert. Equally as popular was the violin duet composed
of R. B. and C. C. Orr. They, too, seldom failed to receive an encore on their rendition of “Blue
Danube Waltz.” The cello solo by C. E. Brown is something new on a Davidson Glee Club’s program and the
audiences seemed pleased with his interpretation of “Liebestraum” by Liszt. The two numbers, “The Naval Parade” and “Cavatina” by the
Concert Orchestra drew much applause from the audiences. Of the two numbers, “Au Bord d’un Ruisseau” and “Love Song” as
rendered by the String Trio composed of P. B. Fry, Piano; R. B. Orr, Violin; and C. C. Brown, Cello—the
first seemed to appeal especially to all of the audiences. The Jazz Orchestra was slightly handicapped on this trip because
one of the saxophone players, Griffin, and the banjo player, Albright, were unable to accompany the Club on account of
sickness. Their numbers were all received, however, “Melancholy Baby” and “Washington and Lee Swing” probably making the biggest hit. The
Chorus received much applause on several numbers in not a few of the concerts and usually received good applause on
all its numbers.

MOORESVILLE MEN HOST TO ELEVEN ON TUES. NIGHT

Davidson Alumni and Friends in Nearby Town Entertain 1928 Football Squad.

BANQUET WAS SERVED

Davidsonians Were Welcomed by Editor of Mooresville Enterprise.—Other Talks Were Made.

Davidson College Alumni and friends of the institution living in Mooresville entertained approximately thirty members of the football team and
college officials at a banquet served at the American Legion hut beyond Mooresville on Tuesday night, December 4th. This was
the second time that Mooresville has been hosts to Davidson gridiron outfits. Rev. R. A. White, D.D., pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville, presided. He introduced Harry P. Deaton, editor of The Mooresville Enterprise, who extended a welcome
to their guests. Capt. A. W. Baker responded. Others who made short talks were H. D. Mills, ’01, and Dr.
W. D. McLelland, '09, of Mooresville; Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, Prof. W. W. Wood and Ernest Milton, of Davidson. The
central thought of the entire meeting was that athletics develop the body physically and is essential to long life. Several
references were also made to playing a clean and square game. The gathering closed with the singing of “O Davidson.”

Among the Mooresville alumni attending the banquet were Dr. S. Frontis, '05; S. M. Goodman, ’98; DeWitt Mills, '01; Dr.
R. R. Morrison, ’02; J. H. McLelland, ’03; Dr. C. U. Voils, '08; Ross Johnson, '09; Dr. W. D. McLelland,
’09; Dr. J. Y. Templeton, ’09; L. B. Mills, ’21; Fred Smith, ’22, and J. R. Cornelius, ’23.

Engagements

Conoly-McCluer

“Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Conoly announce the engagement of their daughter, Mary Margaret, to John Deill McCluer, of Clemson
College, S. C. The wedding will take place the latter part of December at the home of the bride in
Bennet.”

Mr. McCluer is a graduate of Davidson College in the class of 1924, entering this institution from O'Fallon, Mo. After
completing his work here he taught one year, studied at the University of North Carolina, and for the past two
years has been connected with the chemistry department of Clemson College.

OFFICERS CONDUCT A COURT MARTIAL

Court martial proceedings will be taken on Friday night, at 7 o'clock, against one of the cadet officers indicted on
a charge of larceny. The trial is to be held in Eu Hall and the public and students are invited.
The name of the accused is withheld from the press. This trial should be of peculiar interest to students taking
the advanced course in R. O. T. C., military law now being their principal study. Much attention has been given
to this subject and all students would spend a profitable evening by attending. Speculation is aroused as to who the
culprit is and to the severity of the sentence, which may or may not be rendered. It is important to
note that the principals of the case are prominent members of the Senior class who are known for their forensic
ability. The men taking active part in the trial are:

Judge Advocate—Lt. H. A. Knox, Jr.
Defense Council—Lt. W. L. Dumas, Jr.
Law Member—Lt. F. N. Littlejohn.
Individual Council for Defense—Lt. E. Riggs McConnell.

MINISTERIAL BAND (Continued from page 1)

President Moye requested the members to do all they could to help the Band grow and become a real influence
on the Hill.

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Wildcat Belts

W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?

ANSWER NO. 4.

The need of those in distant lands may make the appeal which constitutes your call. Those who have responded to
this call have proved to be among the most useful servants of Jesus Christ—from the Apostle Paul down to now.

Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a happy and achieving life; perhaps we could help you.

Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia
