THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1928

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Maj. J. S. Simmons, ’11, who has been connected with the Walter Reed Hospital, in Washington, for some years, was
in Davidson Monday en route to the Philippine Islands, where he will be on service for three years.

Davidson alumni chosen to represent Concord Presbytery at the General Assembly meeting in Atlanta, Ga., in May, are: Rev. Edgar
A. Woods, '19, of Salisbury; Rev. John L. Parks, ’22, of Spencer, and George W. Hall, '95, of Hickory.

According to information received from the secretary of the New York Alumni Association, T. F. Staley, ’25, has recently moved
from Louisville, Ky., to New York, and is now on the floor of the New York stock exchange. He will
make his residence in Larchmont, N. Y.

Rev. J. M. Clark, D.D., ’86, of Statesville, who has served as superintendent of home missions and evangelist in Concord
Presbytery for 11 years, has tendered his resignation. Newspaper reports stated that the Presbytery had accepted his resignation, passing a
resolution in regard to his faithful and fruitful labors.

Dr. J. D. McDowell, '94, of York, S. C., has been ill for the past year, and recently underwent two
serious operations.

Rev. T. H. Currie, ’09, has moved from Kernstown, Va., to Mooresville, N. C.; M. H. Knox, ’14, from Plattsburg,
Mo., to Coalgate, Okla., and Rev. W. M. Gave, '19, from Jacksonville, N. C., to Belmont, N. C.

223 S. Tryon St. Davis ("Bugs")

Mother’s Day Second Sunday in May Send Mother flowers, if it’s only Flowers by wire anywhere Art Flower Shop Charlotte,
N. C. Robinson, Prop. On the Square

RAY & GILLIAM CLOTHING and FURNISHINGS Statesville, N. C.

CHAS. MACK Confectionery Store Manufacturer of Candies, Wholesale and Retail

CENTRAL HAT SHOP MOST UP-TO-DATE HAT CLEANERS 8 East Trade St. Hemlock 1632

ILLUSTRATING, ANNUALS, MAKERS OF PRINTING PLATES (CUTS) FOR ALL PURPOSES ADVERTISING YOUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED — OLDEST ENGRAVING HOUSE IN THE
CAROLINAS ESTABLISHED 1915 MAGAZINES, NEWSPAPERS

List of Suggested Nominees Distributed Among Alumni—Final Selection to be Made May 29

Compilation of a list of 24 outstanding alumni, located in a number of southwestern states, for suggested membership on the
Davidson College Board of Trustees, and perfection of a method for selecting eight of this number, featured a brief but
business-like dinner-meeting of the Alumni Council at the Manufacturers’ Club in Charlotte last Thursday evening. J. P. Matheson, president of
the alumni association, acted as host and presiding officer.

The list of suggested alumni, as approved by the council at its session last Thursday, will be printed in ballot
form and distributed to each of the 3,500 alumni of the college, located in 40 states and 18 foreign countries.
Each alumnus will be asked to indicate his choice of eight of the men whose names appear on the list.
The returned ballots, carefully checked and tabulated by officials of the alumni council, will form the basis on which the
council will nominate eight men to fill the vacancies on the board of trustees, created by a recent revision of
the college constitution and by-laws. The nominations of the council will be submitted to the alumni for final approval or
rejection at the annual alumni dinner on May 29th.

Alumni will also be asked to vote for members of the alumni council and for officers of the alumni association.
The complete list of suggested nominees for membership on the board of trustees includes:

Mr. John D. Baker, Sr., ’86, of Jacksonville, Fla., president of the Baker & Holmes Company. Rev. Walter L. Lingle,
D.D., '92, Richmond, Va., president of Union Theological Seminary. C. L. Greyfi, manufacturer. J. F. Hurley, Sr., '93, Salisbury, N.
C., editor of Salisbury Post. Dr. R. H. Lafferty, '99, Charlotte, N. C., X-Ray specialist. W. S. Royster, '99, Norfolk,
Va., vice-president Royster Fertilizer Company. Rev. J. C. Rowan, D.D., ’04, Concord, N. C., pastor First Presbyterian Church. Dr. Hamilton
W. McKay, ’96, Charlotte, N. C., Crowell Clinic staff. H. T. Mills, '06, Greenville, S. C., stocks and bonds. H.
S. Richardson, '06, Greensboro, N. C., president Vick Chemical Company. Hon. P. F. Henderson, '97, Aiken, S. C., lawyer. Rev.
Wade H. Boggs, D.D., ’07, Atlanta, Ga., pastor Druid Hills Presbyterian Church. J. A. Scott, '11, Statesville, N. C., lawyer.
George W. Coan, Jr., ’11, Winston-Salem, N. C., banker. Dr. George W. Howard, '12, Salisbury, N. C., superintendent Rowan County
schools. L. H. Wilkinson, '13, Charlotte, N. C., insurance. Charles A. Cannon, ’15, Concord, N. C., president Cannon Mills. John
W. McAlister, ’19, Greensboro, N. C., secretary Pilot Life Insurance Co. John S. Curry, '22, Quincy, Fla., business. Dr. A.
J. Crowell, Charlotte, N. C., honorary alumnus of Davidson College, and head of the Crowell Clinic.Assembly Train- 92, Hendersonville, N.
C., Fresh Country Vegetables STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders BARNETT AND COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N.C.

TWENTY-FOUR ALUMNI SUGGESTED FOR PLACES ON BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
J. Lee Robinson, Gastonia, N. C., not an alumnus, but an outstanding business and civic leader in Gastonia and Gaston
county. Suggestions for president of the alumni council included:

ALUMNI DEATHS
Benjamin Newton White, ‘17, star football player at Davidson ten years ago, died Sunday night, April 8th, at 9:40 o'clock,
in Fitzsimmons Hospital, at Denver, Col. Mr. White had battled heroically against tuberculosis, a disease brought on by service in
the United States army during the World War. At the outbreak of the war between the United States and Germany,
Mr. White left Davidson to enter the army. He served well, gave the best he had in him, but he
lost his health. After being discharged from the army, he went to Greensboro, where he did work in the Boy
Scout organization, later accepting employment with the state highway commission in the interest of his health. He finally had to
give up the work, and the government took charge of him, placing him in the hospital at Oteen. After failing
to respond to treatment there, government officials decided that the Colorado climate would probably benefit him. He did show some
improvement, but it was only temporary. Friends had learned a month before his death that the once strong athletic body
could not survive the attack much longer. The body of Mr. White was brought to his old home in Danielsville,
Ga., for burial. Besides his parents, he is survived by his wife, Mrs. Ann Cantrell White, who was with him
at the time of his death.

Suggested nominees for vice-president of the association included:
Dr. R. H. Lafferty, Charlotte, N. C.
Rev. John McSween, ’08, Anderson, S. C., pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church.
B. W. Romefelt, ’21, Asheville, broker.

WILDCAT TRACKS (Continued from page 2)
Port should go a long way. Taken as a whole the first-year men seemed to be weak with the willow,
and a little slow in the field, but probably their coming trip through the state will bring them around a
little better. Games with the Blue Devils from Duke and the Mountain Bears from Lenoir-Rhyne are on deck this week.
Lenoir-Rhyne should be conquered without serious difficulty, but Duke will take about all the 'Cats have. However, it is the
general opinion that the winning streak of the Wildcats will not be broken by the Durhamites. Wake Forest beat the
Devils last week, and all this speaks well for the locals' chances.

For the second straight year, the Kittens took Bingham Military Academy into camp in the dual track meet here Saturday.
Tom Neal won all three dashes by as fine an exhibition of sprinting as a Freshman has ever given here.
Brock and McCall showed form in the pole vault and broad jump respectively. A pleasant touch of variety was added
to the meet by the interspersion of the Freshman carnival, a feature of Soph Day. Davidson’s easy win over Wake
Forest on the track Saturday was featured by the showing of the Sophomores. Whittle, Brohard, McGavock, Gardner, and Lafferty all
took first places, while Gene Smith tied for a place in the pole vault. Give Tilson a couple of first-class
distance men, and Davidson will have a track team to rank with the best of them. It is probable that
next season will see the development of some of the present Sophs into dependable men for the long grinds. Captain
John Currie was not extended to win in the meet Saturday. He did the 100 in 10:02, which is not
exactly loafing, you know. Watch him in the State meet!

Pathe News shown at the local theater last week had some fairly good action shots from the Tech Relays. There
was Johnnie Currie along with another North Carolina boy, Harper, of the University. Currie could be identified in the shot
of the 100-yard dash. After seeing this picture, John is reported to have started to Hollywood to capitalize on his
“IT.”

FELLOWS! You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

We offer a set of four Clubs and Canvas Bag for $8.50. We restring Tennis Racquets. Myers Hardware and Sporting
Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The ORTHO VICTROLA All Models in Stock—Easy Terms — ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE The Finest Musical Instrument in the World Prices
$95 to $1,000: NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY
