4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 16, 1928

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Editor by 12:00 m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN
M. P. CRAWFORD

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
Feature Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Alumni Editor
Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Subscription Manager
Circulation Manager
Solicitor
Reporters’ Club
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer

W. F. KIRKPATRICK
J. B. MORIARITY
G. R. STARR
R. A. WILSON
W. L. LINGLE
F. C. WITHERS
T. T. JONES
L. C. WADSWORTH
R. C. McGRADY

R. S. ABERNETHY
S. J. GARRISON
W. M. WELLS
P. L. GARRISON
R. W. DICKSON
S. W. MORRIS
W. B. McGUIRE
W. R. BAILEY
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

Again Death, with an unrelenting hand, has cast a shadow over our tiny community and taken from us one of our own, Reid Knox. All that knew him loved, admired, and respected him; and mourn deeply his passing. To the bereaved family, The Davidsonian staff wishes to express its sincerest sympathy.

DOES ANYONE EVER READ EDITORIALS?

From the heading of this article, it would seem that a plea is being made for a closer perusal of the columns of this page. Such is not our purpose, however, but rather a mere query as to whether or not the student body is ever interested in anything but the sporting page and the comics. There is also the question as to whether or not the college weekly is really anything but a chronicle of events to be filed for future reference; the research being made several years later by an enterprising reporter to fill up an empty column.

The general blah about a college journal centers around the fact that it is of necessity representative of “student opinion and thought.” That is taken for granted, no one ever attempts to go back of it. But it might be asked, do the biased views of one man necessarily reflect the trend of thought of the entire student body? This seems to be the general consensus of opinion on the subject, for there have been but three Open Forum articles handed in during this collegiate year as an expression of student thought. There have been no suggestions as to what the student body is thinking on any subject, so it might be assumed that they are outside their own small sphere.

It is not to be expected that every man in college be intensely interested in every word written on any editorial page; it is not to be expected that every man here will offer some helpful suggestion each week. But it was thought that someone would be concerned why the basketball schedule was what it was, why the literary societies were not functioning, why a certain prominent speaker made the indictments of college men that he did—but save for a few on the staff interested in the makeup of the paper there has been little comment.

The above statements hold true not only in the reading of this paper but also each day with the dailies of neighboring cities. Before chapel, there are a number of students reading newspapers; they do not deign, however, to read the current news on the first page, any comment of national or international importance on the editorial page, but turn immediately to the sporting section or the comic section. After that, a few read Brisbane’s articles, and some turn back later to the more important sections.

There are some who are concerned now with outside problems, there are others who are concerned with campus problems, but from all appearances, it seems that the majority of the student body here is concerned with absolutely nothing. To the larger number of people, this means absolutely nothing, and this editorial will have gone the way of all the rest. But anyway, the advisability of abolishing the editorial page completely should now be brought out.

There are times when one feels that there is an important message which must be transmitted to the student body in the shape of an opinion. Yet it seems rather futile when one considers that ten or twelve would be an optimistic guess as to the number of men who would read this message. There are times when one can sympathize with the ones who do read this column when they are faced with nothing but words, words, words. It would not be pessimistic to assume that they believe that they are confronted with this every issue.

This is intended in no way as a plea for hypocritical comment or in an endeavor to make someone say something about this page in particular; but it is an attempt to awaken some of the minds of the students to problems about which they should be concerned. Possibly one of the main reasons for the lack of interest in things outside of our own rather narrow lives is the over-organization on the campus. Practically every Senior has some organization or activity in which he is interested, and it is the problems and plans of this group which interests him particularly. Waiving the question as to the relative merits and evils of over-organization, it should be pointed out that those interested in a group should be interested in the influence of this group upon others and its relation in general to the outside world.

There are problems of these groups which affect the entire student body, but there have been none this year who have attempted to present these problems and endeavor to find a solution to them.

Considering it sanely, it is best that this section of the paper be continued merely for the appearance of things, even if there is nothing but hooey and hullabaloo in it each week. There should be, however, more “crystallization of student thought” appearing in this paper if possible. It is only natural that one man should present one side of a subject more vehemently than another. We cannot disregard our petty prejudices so lightly. But if there were other articles presenting various sides of different problems, really representing student thought on those subjects, the paper would immediately become the force that it should be on the campus.

Also, there has been a deplorable paucity of Open Forum articles this year; an average of one a month would be rather exaggerated, the majority of these having been written by members of the staff. If there were no problems and unusual situations on the campus, this could be easily understood; but as it is now, one feels that the students are either not interested or that they believe the situation can be cleared up by private initiative outside the columns of this paper.

Whether these columns are being read weekly is immaterial; but whether or not students are really thinking is of great importance. In a year or so our interests and activities will no longer be concerned with merely a tiny community, but with a nation and with the world. There are some who are concerned now with outside problems, there are others who are concerned with campus problems, but from all appearances, it seems that the majority of the student body here is concerned with absolutely nothing. To the larger number of people, this means absolutely nothing, and this editorial will have gone the way of all the rest. But anyway, the advisability of abolishing the editorial page completely should now be brought out.

Omicron Delta Kappa will take the last, but the great majority—the part of a scheduled their meeting time with no thought, however, for the struggling Phi’s and Eu's. It is believed that the societies are well on their way now to takethe position they hold on the campus here. But they will be thwarted if student leaders thoughtlessly continue to attract members away with other meetings on Thursday night. Those who realize the true worth of the societies are attempting to cooperate with them in every way. It will be only a slight inconvenience if Thursday nights are left free for literary society work alone, and a great cause will be helped if students will consider others when scheduling their activities.

Open Forum

AN EXPLANATION

The question has arisen in the minds of some of the students during the past week as to just why the local circle of Omicron Delta Kappa should suddenly take the support of two rather decadent organizations upon itself. The organizations in question, of course, are the literary societies. This article will in some measure attempt to explain that action.

It is no secret that the Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity recognizes successful effort in five phases of campus activity, namely, scholarship, athletics, social leadership, publications, and other non-athletic activities. Debating and literary activities would, of course, be included in this last group on the Davidson campus. Upon a review of the situation, it became apparent to the local members of the circle that the circle had done little to foster meritorious activity in this department. The literary societies, which had formerly produced the leading debaters of the college, had sunk to low levels of activity and interest, and the condition had become such that few, if any, of Davidson’s intercollegiate debaters were members of the societies or took any active interest in them. Under the resulting system, there was little opportunity for a successful debater to impart his store of knowledge to his successors, and for the latter to profit by the former’s experience. The result has been that a student's training in public speaking has been confined in most cases to a semester course in that subject and to any attempts that he may have made to win a place on the debating teams. Omicron Delta Kappa recognizes the fact that every leader must at some time exercise his powers as a public speaker and that should he fail to possess such a power, his influence would be materially weakened. Because of this lack of opportunity for training, Omicron Delta Kappa has taken the task upon itself of reviving a waning interest in the societies. The literary societies are the best agent for this work at Davidson and moreover they possess an invaluable historic interest to the college that should not be allowed to die. However, do not get the idea that this interest is being exercised solely for the societies’ historical background. Rather, this element is simply an attribute to the advantages which an increased interest can produce, for the members of the circle feel with the other students that there should be no parasitical organizations on the campus.

The members of the circle have pledged themselves to support the societies and to do everything in their power to strengthen them. It remains for the other students to place their approval of the students at large may not be as lasting as was indicated by the first meetings after their continue to uphold its stand that public speaking ability is essential to every leader and will select its members accordingly, in the meantime endeavoring to develop that trait in prospective members. Is that a threat to force all those who aspire to leadership to approve its action and to support the societies? Absolutely not. It is simply a principle to which the circle must adhere if it wishes to maintain its honorary standing. There is a chance that the societies are not the best agents to develop speakers, but they are the best that exist on any college campus today.

Walter L. Lingle, Jr.

“You are a traveler, sir,” said a passenger in a local train, “and perhaps you are familiar with Mulwich?”

Random Remarks on Anything From Steam Shovels to Steam Pianos

The Exploding Valve

Davidson has always been termed “provincial.” It was a stigma which we all resented but upon no sound grounds could we show our adversaries how they erred. In the main, the bare fact was that we did not care to admit the accusation and therefore flatly denied it, but we could assign no rational argument to our rebuttals. And so the affair remained. But now there comes along a book, wherein certain American standards are set forth, explained, and humorously denounced. We can now judge for ourselves whether we are in the swim. Charles Merz’s The Great American Band Wagon rolls across this great country in broad, pleasing jolts. It gives all a chance to smile at themselves and grin at others. But more than that, Davidson is cleared of that horrible accusation of being “provincial.” True it is that we do fall short in some things such as murder trials and tabloids for the illiterate, but we do measure up to the mark of Mr. Merz in most cases. The beauty about the whole thing is that we are not conceited about our stand. One hardly knows a radio exists in Davidson until a prize fight comes along. Then we can listen in to fistfuls. It is better that way. We have secret societies galore, and the intensity of our golfers, while not producing such excellent golf, does serve amusement for the participants, business for tailors who specialize in plus-fours, and livelihood for the caddies. What more could be asked? We have even gone so far as to have something which resembled a beauty contest. Not that any of the contestants were lacking in interest but a certain inherent personal trait was missing. The winner richly deserved his prize. Even the rickety, worn-out moving picture machine which ran only once a week has been replaced by a theatre offering highly sentimental stuff every weekday and thrilling western serials on Saturdays. This innovation brought about a change here in this “provincial” place. This change relegated completely the despised term into a limbo along with mustache cups and men who did not own an automatic lighter. And now the final consummation is the new speakeasy. Sodas, according to Mr. Merz, constitute an important part in The Great American Band Wagon. In all fairness, we think this book to be an unbiased standard. We now are looking for a night club and prohibition agents.

Davidson men, it seems, are either angels or thugs. Several parties to a controversy concerning bumming, while not mentioning Davidson men especially, throw these titles promiscuously in the direction of all those who bum about the country. We differ with both of the sides to the argument. It is not, however, because of a dislike for the adjectives used in our connection, but chiefly because the facts are misstated. The truth of the matter is that we are broke.

The attempt of interested parties, headed by the local circle of O. D. K., to revive the Literary Societies, is commendable. But we doubt if anything permanent can be done to assure the return for good of these organizations which meant so much to the welfare of the students and college alike ten years ago. Times have changed, and we predict an unusually strong and interested man will be required to place these bygone institutions on their feet again. Furthermore, the societies themselves more or less cut their own throats by not providing programs which would appeal to the average student. A few capable men stuck to the body which can be counted upon for unstinted devotion and encouragement—forsook the lodge and went to the movies. The show was good, too, so this backbone of the decaying skeleton repeated the trip to the theater the next Thursday night. But the miraculous may happen, and another Woodrow Wilson may be fined by the Eumenean for misconduct at meetings.

“Have you given him anything or done anything to relieve him?” asked the young doctor, who had fared into the backwoods to see a patient in the dead of a stormy night.

“Well, no doc—that is to say, nothin’ to speak of,” said the wife of the patient. “I had him soak his feet in almost b’ilin’ water with a lot of mustard in it, and I slapped a red-hot plaster on his back, an’ another on his chest, an’ I’ve put a couple of blisters I had in the house under his arms, an’ a bag o’ cracked ice to the back of his neck, but I didn’t feel like as if I ort to give much o’ anything, until you came an’ see what you think ailed him. Then I reckoned we could do somethin’ for him.”—Ex.