THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 12, 1928

Popular Davidson Girl Marries Charlotte Boy

Daughter of Dr. Lingle Married to Mr. R. C. Garth

A wedding of much prominence and interest in the Southern Presbyterian Church was that of Miss Sarah Souther Lingle and Robert Campbell Garth, the latter of Charlotte, which was solemnized in the Davidson Presbyterian Church during the Christmas holidays. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, of Richmond, Va., uncle of the bride, officiated. The church was decorated in towering cedar and masts of holly and branched candlesticks holding lighted tapers. The music was played by Miss Hattie Thompson. Prior to the ceremony, Miss Grace James and Miss Dorothy Finlayson sang “The Sweetest Story Ever Told,” and Mrs. Guy Vowles sang “Because” and “God Gave Me You.” The bride was given in marriage by her father, Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, prominent member of the Davidson College faculty. C. V. Garth, brother of the groom, was best man, and Miss Mary Shepherd Parker, of Norfolk, was maid of honor. A charming reception followed the ceremony at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Lingle. Receiving with them were the bridal party and Rev. J. G. Garth and Mrs. Garth, of Charlotte, parents of the groom. Miss Lingle is the only daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Lingle, and is one of the state’s most charming and cultured young girls. She attended Salem College and was graduated from Smith College, at both of which places her bright intellect and attractive personality won her many friends. The bridegroom is a son of Rev. and Mrs. Garth.

College Education Highly Profitable

Chicago—Best New Year’s resolution any Dad could make is to give his son a college education. College education is worth $72,000. This is a profit of 1,200 percent on an original investment of $6,000, which is the average total cost of a four years’ course in college. Deducting the cost of the education itself, the student adds to his future income at the rate of approximately $15,000 a year during the time he is in college. As classes are held only five days a week, this means potential earnings of $70 a day for each day spent in the classroom. These statements were made by Otto Y. Schnering, president of the Baby Candy Company, who is an alumnus of the University of Chicago, in an address here. “A college education is not only very essential in modern business, but highly profitable, if the student spends his time in real study,” Mr. Schnering said. “The annual average income of a high school graduate is $2,200 and that of a college graduate $6,000. Total earnings of the two classes of men up to the age of 60 are approximately placed at $78,000 and $150,000. This gives the college graduate a lead of $72,000 over the high school youth. This is the age of specialization and scientific management in business, in which a college education is becoming almost an absolute necessity.”

Christmas Song Service Rendered By Glee Club

V—“O Little Town of Bethlehem” (In Concert).
VI—“The First Noel”: Glee Club Quartet.
VII—“Hark, the Herald Angels Sing”: Glee Club.
VIII—Prayer.
IX—“It Came Upon the Midnight Clear” (In Concert).
X—“The Birthday of a King”: Mrs. Vowles.
XI—“We Three Kings of Orient Are”: Glee Club.
XII—Scripture — Matthew 2:1-12 (Responsive).
XIII—“Joy to the World” (In Concert).
XIV—Benediction.
XV—Postlude — “Silent Night”: Quartet.

COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS

(Continued from page 1)

The plan as proposed calls for the taking over of the present holdings of the local chapters by the college, with the purchase price, plus the cost of such improvements as have been incurred. The plans call further for houses to be built by the college and rented to the chapters for a specified fee. The location will be either on the present site of Louisiana Dormitory or Concord Street, adjoining Richardson Field. The houses will not cost more than five thousand dollars and will probably be of brick construction. The action taken by this committee comes as a surprise to many as the fraternities were allowed to move from the campus and obtain houses in town only three years ago. Members of the Board of Trustees composing the committee were: Dr. W. L. Lingle, Mr. R. A. Dunn, Mr. J. A. Cannon, Mr. H. N. Pharr, and Mr. W. H. Belk. Faculty representatives were: Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. J. M. McConnell.

Fourth Corps Area Ranks First

Figures just made available by the War Department show that the eight states of the southeast comprising the Fourth Corps Area lead all others in the United States in percent of R. O. T. C. students to the total number of students enrolled in the institutions maintaining military training. The data furnished is based upon enrollments for the first semester of the present school year. Of the total 124,833 Reserve Officers’ Training Corps students in the entire United States and Hawaii, 19,256 were enrolled in the Fourth Corps Area. In the corps area, the state of Georgia stood first with an enrollment of 5,952, while Tennessee was second with 3,503, and Alabama third with 3,068. Not only does this section of the country stand first in the manner stated, but the figures reveal, as in past years, that it also leads all other corps areas in the total number of educational institutions that maintain Reserve Officers’ Training Corps units. The total number of such institutions in the United States and Hawaii is 323 and 52 of these are to be found in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee, the states of the Fourth Corps Area. Maj. Gen. Richmond P. Davis, Fourth Corps Area Commander, in commenting upon this excellent showing, said, “This reveals a gratifying record for the entire country and particularly for the Fourth Corps Area.”the states of the It indicates the great popularity of R.O.T.C. training among the youth of this section of the country. It shows appreciation of the worth of such training by southeast. In Ratio of Students Enrolled whom great credit is due for such an enviable record. This part of the United States has always been in the forefront when the question is one of public service, and here again we have another illustration to further establish that as a fact.” General Davis declared, “This indicates a definite sign of discredit to the efforts of various insidious organizations which have in some institutions attempted to poison the minds of our youth towards this valuable democratic training.” In conclusion, he said, “The Organized Reserve, which will constitute the bulk of our Army in another National emergency, are dependent upon the R.O.T.C. first, and the C.M.T.C. second, for keeping up their commissioned strength. As the years go on and age and other causes take from the rolls of the Organized Reserve those officers who saw service in the World War, the bulk of our army must be officered from the product of these two valuable reservoirs, the R.O.T.C. and the C.M.T.C.”

RUSK HONORED (Continued from page 1)

Rusk comes from Atlanta, Ga., where he attended the Boys’ High School. The election was conducted by Hugh Arrowood, Student Body president, assisted by Caldwell Withers, president of the Senior Class.

“What was the name of the hotel you stopped at in Denver, dear?”
“Oh, I can’t remember the name. Just a second and I'll look through my towels.”—Tawney Kat.

J. G. Garth, of Charlotte. He is a graduate of Davidson and is a member of Sigma Alpha fraternity, now being engaged in teaching and research work at Columbia.

The annual Y.M.C.A. Vesper service conducted by the Glee Club was given Sunday night, December 18th. The Glee Club, assisted by Mrs. Vowles and a brass quartet, rendered a very impressive program. Besides Charlotteans attending the wedding, there were the following guests: Dr. Walter L. Lingle, of Richmond, Va.; Rev. V. Gank, of Hickory; Mrs. Vowles and Brass Quartette. The spirit of Christmas pervaded the building in the form of red and green decorations. Varied colored lights around lent their touch of cheer to the carol singing. The brass quartet began the service by playing a series of carols from the back stage. The Glee Club quartet followed this. Throughout the program soft strains of music were heard to come from afar. The voices of the singers seemed to be overflowing with the true spirit of Christmas. Mrs. Vowles sang especially well, “The Birthday of a King,” by Neidlinger. The entire program follows:

I—Prelude—"Ye Olde Waits”: Brass Quartet.
II—“Silent Night”: Glee Club Quartet.
III—Scripture—Luke 2:1-19.

Mrs. Raymond Adams, of Chapel Hill; Mrs. Cornelia S. Craig and Miss Edith Souther, of St. Louis, Mo.; Dr. and Mrs. E. P. Tompkins and Souther Tompkins, of Lexington, Va.; Mr. and Mrs. Henry G. Harper, Jr., of Charlotte; Miss Sophie Hall, of Salisbury; Miss Grace Riddle, of Morganton; Miss Mary Shephard Packer, of Norfolk, Va.; Miss Sarah Boren, of Greensboro; Miss Lois Efird, of Winston-Salem; Pendleton Tompkins, of Lexington, Va.; Judge and Mrs. Randleman; Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Jones and Miss Mary Jones; Mr. and Mrs. Rouzer, all of Salisbury; Dr. George Tompkins and family, of Lynchburg, Va.; Miss Myra Kearney, of Converse College.

A Professor in one of our great universities says of the Faculty of Union Seminary: “If one has to meet constantly the problems raised by current Philosophy, Psychology and Biblical Criticism, his teachers must have been progressive scholars, men who have sifted out every grain of truth however deep the chaff of error. And Union comes nearer realizing this ideal than any institution with which I have ever come in contact. Not one of her professors lacks an essential qualification of the highest type of the teacher of ministers.”

YOU ARE GOING TO BE A PREACHER, YOU WILL FIND AT UNION SEMINARY A BODY OF TEACHERS UNUSUALLY WELL FURNISHED FOR THE TASK OF MAKING PREACHERS

PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, DAVIDSON, N.C.

Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith. Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

If in need of any Oxfords, Shoes, Shirts, Neckwear, Suits or a nice Top Coat come in; we can supply your wants.

THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.