6. THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1928

Facsimile Drawings of Old Masters on Temporary Exhibition in Library

President Martin has arranged with THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF ARTS for another exhibit, and the pictures are now on display,
during the library hours, in Rooms 4 and 8. These are facsimile drawings of the old Masters, selected from the
Italian, Flemish, Dutch, German, and French Schools, there being thirty-three in the group. The appreciation of art, and especially of
painting, is attained only when one first of all places himself before the works of the old masters, and then,
picking up any book on art, studies the method and life of the artist. This has been made possible at
this time. In both rooms will be found several books on the subject of art. The index of each book
will lead you to the sketch of each of the masters represented in the collection. For those who do not
wish to go that far, Professor Cullum will be at the library between 2:00 and 4:00 p.m. on Saturday to
assist anyone in interpreting these works of art. The pictures will be here until April 3rd.

In Deep Water

A certain preacher’s theme was the parable of the tares among the wheat, and he dwelt on the inter-mixture of
good and evil in the church. “This may seem strange to us,” he said. “But we must not forget that
there was a Ham in the Ark.” Then, evidently thinking that this might sound rather odd, and be open to
misconstruction, he corrected himself and added, “I mean, of course, a human Ham.”

“Law as a Calling” Treated by Marion

Outlining the origin and development of law, Judge J. H. Marion, of Charlotte, counsel for the Duke Power Co., Friday
evening presented a stirring call for young men of talents, training, and character in the legal profession. Judge Marion’s address
was the concluding feature of the week devoted to a discussion of law by officials of the Vocational Guidance Institute,
now being conducted by the Davidson Y. M. C. A. for the benefit of local students. Judge Marion emphasized the
offerings of corporation law as a profession, declaring that the law relating to corporations was identical to that relating to
individuals. “A corporation is an artificial person, sometimes invisible, but always having a name, and possessing the same rights of
redress and the same responsibilities for its conduct as an individual person,” he declared.

Something Like That

The big business man did a noble deed. “His conscience hurts him,” said the stenographer. “He wants publicity,” said the
bookkeeper. “Building up goodwill in the community,” said the shipping clerk. “His wife made him do it,” said the telephone
girl. “He'd just had a swell dinner,” said the office boy. And all of them were right—J. A. S.

Tudor Hall

Whether on the Campus or off: MEN'S CLOTHES College Clothes for College Men--- On and off the Campus you'll find
Tudor Hall Clothes are accepted as the foremost style leaders in the field. BELK BROTHERS CO.

VICTROLAS RECORDS

We Have Just Received a New Shipment of Seal Stationery Come in and Look It Over Everything the Student Needs
Davidson Book & Stationery Co. Where Quality and Service Reigns SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE

REPORTERS NOTICE

All Sophomores and Freshmen are requested to be at the DAVIDSONIAN office by 7 o’clock Saturday, March 31. A special
issue of the paper on the R. O. T. C. inspection will come out Wednesday, April 4. All news articles
must be in by 4 p.m. Saturday.

Who’s Who in World of Sports Includes Currie

Makes Record Achievement While With Newark Athletic Club Last Summer

New honor has been brought to Davidson athletics by the selection of John Currie as one of two North Carolina
athletes who are eligible to a place in Who’s Who in World of Sports, a publication issued by a Washington
concern once every five years. The other North Carolina native son to be so honored is Warren of Carolina. Qualifications
necessary to receive this honor are that an athlete shall distinguish himself at an official meet conducted by the American
Athletic Union. At such a meet, he must make a record or be on a team making a record according
to official timing which will be recognized as a new world mark.

Currie’s record-breaking achievement came last summer while with the Newark Athletic Club. In a national meet held at Lincoln, Neb.,
four of the Newark track flashes, Henry Cummings, John Currie, James Pappas, and Chester Bowman, set a new mark for
the 440 relay of 41 seconds flat. This same record had been shattered three times in the five minutes preceding
the feat of the Newark club. In winning this event, Newark and Currie were up against some real competition as
evidenced by the fact that they defeated Paddock and his relay team from California, Jackson Scholtz and his team from
New York, and the Chicago team of which Murchison was a member. Currie was also a member of the relay
team which finished second in the 880 relay event. The athletic annual in which Currie and Warren will have a
place will contain the names of five thousand athletes along with their records and includes every coach producing championship teams.
The task of gathering the material for this publication has been completed and it is expected off the press in
the near future.

Elon to be Played onDiamond Today

This afternoon the Davidson Wildcats meet Elon in the first intercollegiate baseball game of the season. The game will be
attended by the band which has consented to play for the greater part of the games this year and will
open the game with a lively tune. Monday afternoon in a practice game the Wildkittens downed the Varsity by a
decisive score. The Kittens ran up five points, keeping the Cats shut completely out until the last inning when an
outfield error gave the Varsity a home run. The final score was five to two. The excellent box work of
Marrow was the fresh team’s feature.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see M. P. Crawford
QUICK SERVICE : BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

Chapel Hill, N.C., Feb. 12 (CP) — A woman delivered a regular University lecture for the first time in the
history of the University when Mrs. Elizabeth O’Neil Verner, noted Charleston, S. C., artist, spoke here Thursday night on “The
South in Relation to Art.” Mrs. Verner occupies a prominent place in the art world. She is one of the
country’s most distinguished etchers and is a member of the New York National Arts Club and the Pennsylvania Academy of
Fine Arts. In speaking of the South’s possibilities for art, Mrs. Verner said that the University would make an excellent
beginning point. She mentioned the Carolina Playmakers and the Music Department as a foundation on which to build. “We have
the materials in the South for an immortal art,” the speaker said, “and I challenge any section of the country
to produce anything like what the word ‘South’ embraces. It tells a story of glory, of suffering, prosperity, inheritance, and
all those things that we have for a background.” The artist continued that the South had not been closely connected
with art in the past and that the fact was deplorable. “There is art in the South,” she said, “but
we must take it in order to make it ours—this means work. We have merely thought of our Southern art
long enough, we have lived on imported art long enough. I personally think that it is better to grow weeds
in one’s own garden than to import orchids.” This was the last University lecture of the year, the program having
included Will Durant, Bliss Carmen, Dr. David A. Roberts, and Dr. Jiri V. Danes.

Honest, at Least

’Twas the day before Christmas, Willie Jones broke a window with a snowball, sassed his mother, got his new suit
full of slush, broke the dial on the radio, and took father’s fountain pen to draw pictures with. “Thank goodness,”
sighed Papa Jones, “my boy is not a hypocrite!”—Life.

Their Start

Alice—Dad, do you think George is making enough to support me?
Father—“Yes, dear. That’s more than I was making when I married.”
Alice—“But do you think a seven-room house is large enough for us?”
Father—“Certainly. Your mother and I started fighting in three rooms.”

Suits for LITERARY SOCIETIES

Eumanean

The subject for debate in the Eumanean Literary Society Thursday evening, March 26, was “Resolved: That the United States Should
Adopt a Policy of Financial Aid for Agriculture.” The affirmative was upheld by John Preston and Jack Matthews and the
negative by Dick Flynn and Mac King. The decision was two to one in favor of the negative. A declamation
was given by Jennings Dennis. The feature of the program was a talk by Riggs McConnell. In a well-planned and
clearly stated speech, he showed the evils which the South has wrought upon herself by voting solidly Democratic. A show
of the hands which he asked for at the beginning of his talk amply justified him in his contention that
most Southerners are Democratic by tradition. He pleaded for the use of more discretion in the exercise of the franchise
and less party spirit. In closing, he showed the advantages the South would enjoy if that plan were followed through.

Philanthropic

In the Phi Society, the query for discussion was the old but always interesting one, “Resolved: That Capital Punishment Should
be Abolished.” The affirmative, composed of B. F. Brown and Charles Kraemer, won the decision. The men upholding the negative
were C. DuBose and Wilfred Eppes. An oration was delivered by M. A. Morrison which was enjoyed by all those
present.

“Charge It”

They were climbing a lofty peak of the Alps, and she was standing a few feet above him. She turned
around and gazed in wonderment.
“What,” he asked, “do you see?”
“Far, far below,” she cried, “I see a long, white sheet stretching like a paper ribbon almost back to our
hotel.”
“Ha, ha!” he ejaculated. “It’s that hotel bill overtaking us.”—Clipped.

A Child’s Version

Both science and history are taught to good effect in our schools. Although the facts in a child’s mind may
be somewhat disorderly, they are there, at any rate—in heaps. In one composition a pupil wrote: “Galileo discovered the law
of the pendulum when an apple dropped on his head from the leaning tower of Pisa.”

New Easter Fashioned by Lebow Bros. $40.00

Men’s new Easter suits in a most complete selection—in styles that are smart, up-to-the-minute and yet sufficiently conservative—the season’s best
shades to choose from—fashioned by Lebow Brothers—priced at $40.00. Others $30.00 to $65.00

New Easter Neckwear $1.00 to $3.50

Spring Neckwear for the Easter season in an array of the most fanciful patterns and gay colorings—in a price range
from $1.00 to $3.50.
Men’s Department—Street Floor
