Vol. XV. FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSONIAN DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 16, 1928 No. 19

Mr. Kendall Weisiger of Atlanta Opens Vocational Guidance Institute

Program Of Union Makes Second Under Leadership of O.D.K. and Faculty Y. M. C. A. Sponsors Most Extensive Program of Vocational Guidance Yet Attempted

FIRST OF SERIES

Mr. Weisiger Represents Southern Bell Telephone Company

Monday morning the Vocational Guidance Institute, sponsored by the Y. M. C. A., opened the most ambitious of programs of its kind ever attempted in southern colleges and universities. With a program of six weeks, during which time six vocations will be studied, Davidson has made herself a leader in the field of helping the student in determining his life work.

Mr. Kendall Weisiger, of Atlanta, a representative of the Southern Bell Telephone Company, opened the series of lectures with a talk to the student body on the general topic of vocations. Mr. Weisiger has for years past been interested in Davidson men and has from time to time chosen members of the graduating classes, and given them positions in his company. The high spots of Mr. Weisiger’s talk were as follows: Work at the job you have. Self-analysis is necessary for decision of field. The most successful vocation is the one that arises from an avocation. Analyze the points of the job offered. Use your leisure time to the best advantage. Don’t take your diploma too seriously.

Mr. Weisiger asserted that man's ultimate aim was happiness, and that happiness could only come from his work. Man succeeds best in the field that captivates his interests. Men are born with certain natural endowments and when best fitted he does his best work. It is therefore necessary to analyze oneself before choosing any line of work. One must also travel about, go from coast to coast. (Continued on page 8)

Withdrawal List is Smallest On Record

Fewer changes in the student body enrollment are recorded in the Registrar's office this semester than in any recent year. College authorities are very much gratified that such is the case—this being excellent evidence that Davidson is gradually reaching a higher standard.

Only seventeen men withdrew from college at the end of the first semester, ten of this number being required to withdraw because of their failure to make a passing grade on three major subjects. The remaining seven men left school of their own accord, some to take up work at technical schools, one to enter West Point, and another because of financial reasons. The number of failures is only about one-half the number of last year, showing a marked improvement in the scholastic standing of the student body.

Coming in to take up work the second semester were ten new students, all of whom are old Davidson men who have been out of school for a time. Two of this number are completing senior work and will be graduated in the spring with the present senior class. The entrance of these two students into the class of ’28 raises its enrollment to a total of 127, the largest senior class enrollment in the history of the college. Two hundred and sixty-nine men registered in the fall of 1924, so nearly fifty per cent of this number will graduate. Such a percentage of graduates from the number of registered freshmen will be a usually good record.

Davidson Matmen Lose to V. M. I.

The Davidson matmen last Saturday night lost to the Virginia Military Institute grapplers by a score of 13 1-2 to 11-2. The teams were evenly matched and in the hotly contested match one fall was registered, that coming in the unlimited class when Christenberry pinned Haase of V. M. I. to the mat in the creditable time of 5:38. Three of the bouts went extra periods, one of these ending in a draw between Preston, V. M. I. and Capt. Garrison, neither grappler being able to hold the other to the mat.

Flythe started the bout with a time advantage over Woodward, of V. M. I. which was followed by the match in which Thompson, V. M. I. grappler, won from Brown on time. In the next match Field, V. M. I., won over Herriott with a time advantage of 2:37. In the remaining matches Davidson won one with the only fall of the bout and lost three, two of which were carried into extra periods. The victory was the fifth straight win for V. M. I.

Summary:
115lb class—Flythe, Davidson, defeated Woodward, V. M. I., in two extra periods. Time advantage 30 seconds.
135lb class—Thompson, V. M. I., defeated Herriott, Davidson. Time advantage 2:37.
145lb class—Preston, V. M. I., and Capt. Garrison, Davidson, wrestled to a draw in two extra periods.
158lb class—McCrary, V. M. I., defeated Brohard, Davidson, in two extra periods. (Continued on page 8)

I.R.C. Hears Dr. Brown

Two Delegates Chosen

Tyree Dillard and Riggs McConnell Named Representatives to Southern Conference at Anderson, South Carolina

The International Relations Club of Davidson met last Friday, with full attendance to hear Dr. C. K. Brown of the faculty deliver a talk treating the question of “Rubber as an Industry, and as an International Commerce.” Dr. Brown gave a message of vital interest, and provoked quite a bit of thought among his hearers. He incorporated in the body of his remarks a discussion of rubber in its relation as a British monopoly; Britain commanding sixty-five per cent of the world’s supply. Following Dr. Brown’s speech there was a round-the-table discussion of various subjects of an international character.

At the meeting the coming Southern Conference of the International Relations Clubs was considered. This conference is to be held at Anderson, S. C., during the days of March 8, 9, and 10. Two members of the local club were elected to go as delegates: Tyree Dillard, president of the Davidson Club, and Riggs McConnell. These men among other delegates will have an unusual opportunity to hear some of the most outstanding men in the various international fields. Among the biggest men at the Conference will be Baron Alphonse Heyking of the University of Dorpat. The opportunity of hearing Mr. Heyking will be possible to every Davidson man, for definite plans have been made to have him here during the latter part of March. The meeting adjourned with the next (Continued on page 8)

Talk of Y.M.C.A. Series

First Week of Vocational Guidance Institute Devoted to Ministry

PERSONAL INTERVIEWS

Group of Ministers Offer Counsel and Advice

Wednesday night Dr. Ben R. Lacy, President of Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, Va., spoke in Shearer Hall to the students on choosing the ministry as a life work. In his talk Dr. Lacy echoed the thought advanced by Mr. Weisiger, that happiness is one of the main motives that determine a man’s occupation. But he added that in the choice of the ministry the element of duty should be felt. The consideration of the ministry as a vocation differs from that of others in that it is only addressed to Christians. Any man can become a banker, lawyer, or farmer, but only he who has definite faith in God can enter the ministry.

Dr. Lacy concisely outlined the disadvantages of entering the ministry, and with logic and reason outbalanced the disadvantages with the advantages. The disadvantages are: 1. The man intending (Continued on page 8)

Ministerial Call Theme of Talk by Seminary Student

“The personal appeal which the ministry has for me” was the subject of the message which W. E. Gardner, president of the student body at Union Seminary brought the members of the Davidson Y. M.C. A. at vespers Sunday evening in Shearer Hall. Mr. Gardner was introduced by W. A. Christian, former Davidsonian, but now a student at Union. “The call to be a preacher may not be dramatic like Paul's; it may come as a quiet urging from within. Yet God speaks to men in this ‘still small voice’ just as truly as in the days of old when He called His servants by means of awe-inspiring visions.

“Some men enter the ministry because their friends urge this step upon them; others because they have a fine voice which they wish to use to possible advantage.”

In the second place, the call to the ministry constitutes an appeal to the whole personality of a man. His social, intellectual, physical, and spiritual natures are all challenged to enter a great fight on the side of Truth. The struggle between the mechanist and purposivist in psychology, between the idealist and materialist in philosophy, between the naturalist and supernaturalist in science are some specific instances in which a great fight is being waged to gain Truth.

The fact that the Gospel message is adequate to meet every situation that may arise makes the privilege of preaching it very attractive. For the tempted man, there is the picture of the tempted yet sinless Christ; for the sorrowful, a hope of new life without sorrow. The love of Christ is needed as much by the weak as by the strong as has been illustrated in the lives of many young college men. Then, the minister always has a message for the man that has sinned. Jesus Christ was always willing to forgive one who had stumbled if the person was truly repentant.

(Continued on page 2)

Sophs Plan Annual Fete in Charlotte

Plans are now being made for the annual class banquet of the class of ‘30. Recently the executive committee of the class, consisting of Carl Pritchett, president, Tom Brohard, vice-president, and Frank Brown, secretary and treasurer, met and decided upon a number of committees to take care of the details of the banquet. The committees with the names of the chairmen are as follows: Banquet committee, Allan Frew; program, Jimmy Matthews; transportation, Joe Gardner; music, Charley Orr; finance, Frank Brown.

No definite action has been made as yet, but these committees are at work on prospective plans. The banquet committee has charge of finding a place for the banquet, making up a menu, arranging for caterers and servers, fixing the price, and other similar details. The place will in all probability be Charlotte. The chairman states that the committee is in communication with various caterers and that it will make a trip to Charlotte soon to make other tentative plans.

The program committee is arranging for one or two speeches at the banquet and for special rates in order that the entire class may attend a movie after the banquet. The transportation committee will make terms with some bus company for the carrying of the class to and from Charlotte. The duties of the two other committees interrelate with the program committee.

(Continued on page 2)

Pall Cast Over Campus by Death of Reid Knox

Popular Member of Freshman Class Dies After Week’s Illness While Visiting His Home

A shadow of death hung over the campus for three days last week, occasioned by the recent sickness and death of Reid Knox, popular member of the freshman class who died at his home in Bear Poplar last Sunday morning. Reid left school a week before his death to visit his family over the weekend, but became sick shortly after his arrival there. His sickness was diagnosed by physicians as infantile paralysis accompanied with spinal disorders and a very high fever.

Reid Knox entered school with the present freshman class last September and since that time made a splendid record for himself while here. He was an excellent student and was a candidate for the freshman football and basketball teams. He was out for basketball until the strain of examinations temporarily halted him, but with examinations over, he started spring football training. He was out for football up until the time he left school for his home.

He was in the fullest sense a true Christian gentleman. His quiet sincere nature made him admired and loved by all those who knew him as friend and companion, to whom his sudden sickness came as a real shock. Reid is survived by his father and mother, Mr. and Mrs. S. Reid Knox, of Bear Poplar, and five sisters. The Davidson student body extends its heartfelt sympathy to his family and shares with them their keen sense of loss.

Many Old and New Men Respond to Rally Held Last Thursday Night

NEW SUGGESTIONS

Dr. Brown and Prof. Foreman on Program

Davidson College will continue to have literary societies if any efforts on the part of O. D. K. prove successful. The members of the latter organization have pledged themselves to help the societies by regular attendance at weekly meetings and by assisting in preparing programs. An announcement by Mr. Jackson as to the purpose of O. D. K. proved to be a stimulus to the faithful few who are still fighting desperately to keep alive Davidson's most historic organizations. A number of men, especially juniors and seniors, recently expressed their intentions of entering once more upon society work.

Historic old Phi Hall was crowded to the doors last Thursday night as the Eu-mean and Philanthropic united to hear an extemporaneous debate between Professors Brown and Foreman on the subject, “Resolved, That co-education should be adopted at Davidson.” Professor Brown, in upholding the affirmative side of the question, kept the audience in an uproar with his “Fourteen Points,” while Professor Foreman scored some telling shots on the negative.

Following this feature number, the meeting was thrown open for a general discussion of the literary society situation. Professor Erwin, an old alumnus of the Phi, made a brief talk in which he expressed the hope that society work could be put back on the plane which it deserved to occupy. Professor Currie followed with a few words on the way literary society training helps a man to meet emergencies in later life. He expressed the hope that the new-

(Continued on page 8)

Furman Wins Glee Club Championship

Furman sang its way to the championship of the south in the second annual meet of the Intercollegiate Glee Club Association held at Greenville, S. C. last Friday night. This championship was won from competing clubs of the southern district composed of the states of South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Alabama, and Florida. These states were represented by the Glee Clubs of Furman University, South Carolina, Duke University, North Carolina, University of Virginia, Virginia, University of Alabama, and University of Florida, Florida.

Furman, now the champion of the south, will, by virtue of its recent conquest, be entitled to enter the national contest that will be held at New York some time in March. At this contest, the winners of the district championships of the United States will all compete. Furman was also the winner of the southern championship last year.

Among the honor guests at the recent contest was Mr. Alfred F. Pickernelle, of New York, president of the National Association of Glee Clubs. One of the big features of the meeting in addition to the contest was a chorus composed of one thousand male voices. This chorus was made up of the voices of the competing clubs attendant at the contest, augmented by the addition of the Glee Clubs of Wofford College, University of South Carolina, Erskine College, Presbyterian College,

(Continued on page 5)