2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1928

SPORTS

WILDCAT TRACKS
Following Davidson’s “MEN OF MIGHT” Along the Athletic Trail
By Zeb Long, Jr.

When the Wildcat and the Mule mix—sounds mighty good, doesn’t it? Davidson men all over the South and hundreds of
other supporters will be pulling for the old Red and Black team as they have never pulled before, when Monk
takes his eleven up West Point way in the fall of ’29. And there is no doubt that it will
take all the support that can be given if the Cats make a good showing. Can Monk Younger and Tex
Tilson do it? Give them good freshman material next fall, and then watch those Wildcats go in ’29.

Davis-Elkins, a small Presbyterian institution in West Virginia, has been giving the Army a hard game for the last three
or four years. Now, Davidson will get her chance to pull a Bo McMillan stunt. Certainly, the Wildcats deserve this
chance for national recognition, because no small team in the country has made a more enviable record in the last
three years than have these same fighting Wildcats.

The diamond stars will be idle until Saturday when a contest is on deck at Concord with the Guilford Quakers,
who earlier in the season bowed to the Wildcats by the score of 6 to 0. “Doc” Kugler will more
than likely be Monk’s choice to make it two straight over Pat Crawford’s bunch. Old Man Jupe Pluvius decreed that
the Lenoir-Rhyne game should be put off by rain.

This column prophesied a win over Duke, but it was not so ordered, apparently. The Cats had every chance in
the world to win that game, but base knocks simply were not to be had when the time came. Jenkins
pitched a heady game and came out of the holes nicely, but he was matched by McInnis, who, with batting
support, would have won hands down. A real pinch-hitter would be worth about a million iron men around this place.
For the spectators, the contest was a thriller. Hal Johnson further proved his all-state quality by sterling outfield work.

John Currie’s work against the South Carolina Gamecocks Saturday was indicative of the whole team’s showing. His time of 9.9
on the 100 was the best of the year and seems to indicate that he will be ready to lead
his crew at the big showdown in Greensboro this weekend. Davidson stands the best chance in the State meet this
time that she has had for a long while.

A new college record in the high hurdles was set by the flying feet of the sophomore flash, Whittle. He
got over them to the tune of 15.5, clipping a tenth of a second off the time set by Huie
in 1901. This boy, along with Currie, is going to show the South some real form next spring.

Once again, the eyes of the campus are focused upon Captain Dick Carr and his fellow netmen. They served Furman
a nice licking, 5-1, Saturday, and look good to win final honors in the Carolina tournament soon to be completed
at Chapel Hill. This ought to be Roddey’s year in the singles, and everybody knows what Carr and Roddey can
do in the doubles.

The coming of Capt. N. G. Pritchett to Davidson as athletic instructor should mean a great deal to the school,
and his reputation at Woodbury Prep serves as a splendid introduction to all Davidson men. He will not take part
in the actual coaching duties of Monk and Tex, but will care for most of the business end of the
situation.

The menagerie at Dr. Charlie's house is steadily growing. The Junior class wildcat was formally presented Saturday night, and it
was hinted that a real wildcat fight might be in evidence. There are frown cats down at U. S. M.

Monk Younger’s Football Eleven to Play Military Academy in October, 1929

The news that the Davidson Wildcats will meet Army in football in the fall of ’29 has caused much rejoicing
on the local campus. Dr. Wood announced the fact last Thursday. On October 12, 1929, Coaches Younger and Tilson will
lead a determined band of Wildcats to the Academy at West Point, and with this little band will go the
hopes of Davidson for national recognition. The game was scheduled as a result of recent negotiations with the officials of
the Academy and comes as an indication that Davidson’s athletic policy will become of a very different nature in the
next few years. It will be remembered, of course, that last fall the committee considered scheduling a game with Army
for the fall of ’28, but the matter was dropped after thorough discussion.

This is the first game in the history of Davidson College of such national significance, since it brings one of
the strongest “little” teams in the South into actual combat with the national service eleven. While the big day is
still far away, yet the spirit will be working all the time, and when the time does come, then the
Cats will be ready to fight.

A. L. Mills Elected New Golf Captain

Arthur Mills, of Greenville, S. C., has been elected captain of the 1929 golf team. Mills was one of the
prominent members of the Davidson team which finished second in the state title race this season. He and Boyce Martin,
of Atlanta, Ga., who were paired in the foursome matches, were undefeated. Members of the team this year were Mills,
B. F. Martin, W. L. Lingle, Jr., Richmond, Va., and B. A. Wilson, Marion, N. C. These men played through
a most successful season, placing second in the state meet held at Greensboro, and, earlier in the season, defeating Washington
and Lee and Duke University. Two matches were dropped to the University of North Carolina.

State Trip is Bad for Young Kittens

The Wildkitten baseball team returned last Friday from a five-day trip through the state, during which time they met successively
the Wake Forest, State, and Carolina Freshmen. The first game, which was scheduled to have been played with Duke, was
called off on account of rain.

Davidson Courtmen Easily Down Furman

The Davidson netmen won their sixth straight intercollegiate victory by trouncing Furman University last Saturday. The final score was 5-1.
This tournament was Davidson’s second triumph over the Furman players this season. Roddey, the Wildcat’s racquet ace, took his sixth
consecutive match from Dement, the Furman star, in the most spectacular event of the day. Carr and Johnston, displaying an
excellent brand of tennis, defeated Washington and Bannister, respectively, and though Halverstadt lost his match, he put up a strong
fight against Smith. The Davidson racqueteers were at their best in the doubles, and the Furman net stars were unable
to return the fast serves and well-placed lofts that the Cats presented to them.

Wildcats Drop Thriller to Duke Baseball Team

Mainly on account of the southpaw hurling of “Lefty” Jenkins, the Duke University baseball team conquered Monk Younger and his
Wildcats here last Wednesday afternoon by the close count of 2 to 0. Triples by Werber and Deane, each coming
with a man on base, accounted for a run in the sixth stanza, and another in the ninth. It was
by exactly this margin that the Davidson men met defeat, since, try as they might, they were unable to push
across a single counter. Jenkins was in hot water several times, and on two occasions double plays saved him. He
passed five men to first, but when the crisis came, he always pulled out somehow.

John McInnis, pitching for the Wildcats, hurled a beautiful game, and had the team hit behind him, would have won
easily. As it was, however, the Cats let two golden opportunities slip by without scoring. In the sixth there...There were
men on second and third and nobody down. Captain Dulin whiffed, and Johnson received an intentional pass, loading the sacks.
Kugler then hit into a double play to retire the side. Again in the ninth, a typical Wildcat rally filled
the bases, but McConnell forced Johnson at the plate. McAuley flew out to center, and Kugler was caught coming home
after the catch. The entire game abounded with sparkling fielding plays. Time after time, Ratchford and Johnson pulled spectacular catches
in the outfield, which were a long drive far into centerfield, but went up against a real opponent in the
Wake Forest “Baby Deacons.” Marrow pitched a good game for the “Davidson Fresh,” but lacked support in the infield sufficient
to win the game. Gibson led the hitting for the locals, getting two hits. Perhaps the features of the game
were the three double plays made by Wake Forest. The “Baby Deacons” won to the tune of five and nothing.
The “Wildkittens” played the game of the trip against the State College Freshmen on the 25th. Thompson pitched for the
Davidson Fresh allowing only six hits to the hard-hitting State nine. Averette pitched for State allowing the “Wildkittens” only four
hits. The game was a fast one featured by very few errors. The last game of the trip was played
against the Carolina Freshmen on the 26th. Marrow again ascended the mound for the Davidson Fresh but was unable to
hold the sturdy Carolina sluggers within bounds. The Carolina team showed up better than the “Wildkittens” throughout the contest and
took the heavy end of a seven to two score. The Davidson Freshmen hit fairly well during this game but
seemed unable to bunch their hits effectively. Proctor led the hitting for the “Kittens,” getting three hits out of four
trips to the plate. State won by the score of two to one. McGeachy pulled it in after a thrilling
run. He was off at the crack of the bat, and caught the ball on the tips of his fingers
with his back to the crowd. It was the most brilliant play of the game, and one of the best
seen here this year. Ratchford and Kugler each secured two bingles to lead the Davidson hitting, while Deane and Werber
showed the way for the visitors. Harrison and Ratchford showed some of the finest base running of the season in
the sixth when, with Harrison on base, Ratchford laid down a perfect bunt, and before the dust settled the runners
were perching on second and third.

Box score and summary:

DUKE
AB R H PO A E
Adams, cf 2 2 2 0 0 0
Farley, 3b 4 1 1 2 2 0
Werber, ss 4 1 2 5 1 0
Dean, lf 4 0 1 3 0 0
Weaver, 1b 3 0 1 12 0 0
Murray, rf 1 0 0 0 0 0
Hawkins, rf 3 0 0 0 0 0
Wathen, c 3 0 0 6 2 0
Jenkins, p 3 0 0 0 2 0
Totals 31 2 7 27 7 0

DAVIDSON
AB R H PO A E
Harrison, 2b 2 0 0 3 1 0
Ratchford, lf 4 0 2 3 0 0
Dillingham, cf 3 0 0 0 0 0
Littlejohn, 3b 1 0 0 0 0 0
Johnson, cf 2 0 0 5 0 0
Kugler, ss 3 0 2 4 1 1
Crawford, 1b 3 0 1 4 0 0
McConnell, rf 4 0 0 3 0 0
McAuley, c 3 0 0 4 1 0
McInnis, p 3 0 0 0 2 0
Totals 29 0 5 27 6 1

Score by innings:
R H E
Duke 000 001 001—2 7 0
Davidson 000 000 000—0 5 1

Summary: Three-base hits: Werber, Dean. Two-base hits: Farley. Sacrifice hits: Weaver, Crawford. Stolen bases: Adams, Werber, Dean 2, Ratchford. Double
plays: Werber to Dean, Adams to Warren. Base on balls, off Jenkins 5; off McInnis 1. Struck out, by Jenkins
4; by McInnis 2. Left on bases: Duke 5; Davidson 8. Hit by pitched ball, by McInnis (Adams). Umpire: Miller.

BATTING AVERAGES
AB H Pct.
Johnson 52 19 .365
Dine 37 13 .351
Harrison 41 14 .341
Miller 3 1 .333
J. Kugler 51 16 .317
McConnell 34 10 .294
E. Kugler 7 2 .286
Ratchford 52 13 .250
Henderson 4 1 .250
Meadows 4 1 .250
Crawford 50 12 .240
Littlejohn 22 5 .227
McInnis 37 6 .162
McAuley 34 6 .176

Freshman Tennis Team Returns From Trip

The Freshman tennis team, composed of Lynn, captain; Poe, manager; Rusk and Meacham, left last Wednesday on its first trip.
These men first went to Winston-Salem, where they defeated Winston-Salem High School by the score of 5-1. Davidson won three
singles and both doubles matches. The team then went to Chapel Hill, and was defeated by the Carolina Freshmen 5-1.
However, Poe and Lynn won their doubles match. The Freshmen also journeyed to Oak Ridge and Charlotte for matches there,
but were prevented from playing by rain. A return match with Winston Hi will be played here today and the
Carolina Freshmen will be here later in the week. Meets with Oak Ridge and Charlotte High School will probably be
held here early in May.

Currie’s Dashes Feature Davidson’s Victory Over So. Carolina Gamecocks

Whittle Sets New School Record in High Hurdles

Failure to Hit in Pinches is Costly

CLOSE SCORE

Visitors Are Superior in Field Events, But Cats Show Heels on Track

Davidson College Track Team won a close meet from the University of South Carolina last Saturday, taking the long end
of a 69 1/2 to 56 1/2 score. The winner of the match was not definitely decided until the last
event, which was the half-mile run. The Gamecocks put up a game fight, and had it not been for the
Cats’ strength in the dashes would likely have put in a win. Keels, of South Carolina, deserves special mention for
his final spurt in the 2-mile run. Pulling around the track for seven laps against a bad wind, he made
a pretty dash for the goal of approximately half a lap. John Currie was high scorer of the meet with
a total of 15 points. He won first place in the 100, 220, and 440-yard dashes, the time being respectively,
9.9 seconds, 22.5 seconds, and 52.2 seconds. Heath Whittle lowered the college record in the 120-yard high hurdles by one-tenth
of a second. Whittle has broken the 220-yard low hurdles in a previous meet of the year, and then again
broke his own record. The Cats showed form in the running events, winning seven out of a possible eight. The
visitors were strong in the field and weight events, winning five out of a possible six first places.

Summary:
100-Yard Dash—Currie, Davidson, first; Whittle, Davidson; Zobel, South Carolina. Time—9.9 seconds.
220-Yard Dash—Currie, Davidson, first; Zobel, South Carolina; Kell, Davidson. Time—22.5 seconds.
440-Yard Dash—Currie, Davidson, first; Kell, Davidson; Thomas, South Carolina. Time—52.2 seconds.
880-Yard Run—Stigler, Davidson, first; Lafferty, Davidson; Drake, South Carolina. Time—2 minutes 11.9 seconds.
Mile run—Ely, Davidson, first; Green, South Carolina; Grimsley, South Carolina. Time—4 minutes 54.2 seconds.
Two-mile run—Keels, South Carolina, first; Thrower, Davidson; Beavers, Davidson. Time—10 minutes 51.5 seconds.
120-Yard High Hurdles—Whittle, Davidson, first; Kennedy, South Carolina; Brown, Davidson. Time 15.5 seconds. (New Davidson record.)
220-Yard Low Hurdles—Brown, Davidson, first; Baker, South Carolina; Whittle, Davidson. Time—28.5 seconds.
Pole Vault—Rogers, South Carolina, first; Smith, Davidson, and Bailey, Davidson, tied for second. Height—10 feet 6 inches.
Broad Jump—Zobel, South Carolina, first; McGavock, Davidson; Gardner, Davidson. Distance—21 feet 2 inches.
High Jump—Kennedy, South Carolina, and Rembert, South Carolina, tied for first; Shand, South Carolina, and Gard- (Continued on page 6)
