THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1928

Rhodes Scholarship Offers Opportunity for Chemists

Due to the interest in international affairs among the people of the United States, especially since the World War, the
number of students going abroad for further study has greatly increased and a correspondingly keen interest has been aroused in
the Rhodes Scholarships. The scholarships are tenable for three years at the University of Oxford. They carry a stipend of
400 pounds, and the wide range of subjects is equivalent to that of the larger universities of the United States.
In this series of articles, some of the advantages of study at Oxford, in Law, Medicine, and Philosophy, have been
set forth, and this number is a brief description of the opportunities in the study of Chemistry.

Many and attractive facilities are offered to members of the university for work in this field, as vast sums have
been expended during the past two decades in bringing the scientific aspect of university endeavor to a par with that
long enjoyed, and justly so, by the humanities. The Natural Science School of Oxford University now ranks among the very
best in the world. Perhaps the outstanding members of the eminent faculty in Chemistry are the Waynflete Professor of Chemistry,
Wm. H. Perkin, Jr., and the Lee’s Professor of Chemistry, Frederick Soddy; the former noted for his researches in the
field of synthetic dyes and alkaloids, and the latter for fundamental work in the radio-active elements. Instruction and supervision are
given by all members of the faculty, augmented and extended from time to time by lectures and discussions by noted
visiting English and Continental scientists.

Several of the colleges maintain their own chemical laboratories in addition to the larger university-operated laboratories. New and modern buildings
house the divisions of Organic and Bio-Chemistry, while the Inorganic work is extensively cared for in the University Museum. Physical
Chemistry courses are given in some of the college laboratories. The equipment is most comprehensive and modern, and facilities are
presented for the construction of special apparatus, as needed. Excellent libraries are maintained in connection with each laboratory, as well
as the complete scientific library in the famous Bodleian. Private rooms with almost unlimited equipment are provided for those students
engaged in research.

The average American Rhodes scholar will usually receive Senior standing, which will enable him to carry on studies in his
chosen field and to obtain the Bachelor of Arts Degree at the end of his second year. The Chemistry School,
however, differs from the others in that there are two examinations: the first one leads to B.A. “without honors,” and
the second one determines the class. For this second examination, an additional year's work is required, which consists of individual
laboratory work of a semi-original nature. But if the work of this third year and the examination following it warrant,
the candidate may receive in addition to his B.A. “with honors” the B.Sc. degree, and it can usually be secured
in the third year of the tenure of the Rhodes Scholarship.

It is possible for one who is qualified upon entrance to the University to make application for admission as a
student for the degree of Bachelor of Science. Individual work of an original nature under the supervision of the faculty
is a primary requisite for this degree. To be admitted to read for this degree, the candidate must furnish proof
that he has a good general education and evidence of his fitness to do independent research.

Opportunity is offered at Oxford for those qualified students who wish to engage in fundamental original research to secure the
Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (D. Phil., Oxon.). The tenure of the scholarship is required for the completion of the
necessary work, which is done under the supervision of a member of the faculty. The dissertation submitted as a partial
requirement for the degree shall be suitable for publication and shall constitute an original contribution to knowledge. Advanced students are
given access to the laboratories at all times and goodly portions of the vacations are sometimes given over to intensive
work by these research workers.

For information about a scholarship, see Dr. G.

Mrs. Martin’s Sister Recently Met Death

COLLEGE YELL CONTEST

Don't forget the free tickets that are to be given for the best yells turned in to the editor of
The Davidsonian or to the varsity cheer.Leader. Several suggestions have been handed in. Get yours in before midnight Monday, April
30th, when the contest closes. The first prize is six tickets to the local theater; second, four tickets, and third,
two tickets.

Word was received in Davidson recently of the death of Mrs. E. H. Williamson, the sister of Mrs. W. J.
Martin, of Fayetteville. Mrs. Williamson was the mother of Vardell Williamson, who attended Davidson in 1924-25. Her death occurred after
a brief illness, in the early morning of April 12th, and interment was made in the Fayetteville cemetery. Mrs. Williamson
was, prior to her marriage, Miss Kathryn Vardell, of South Carolina. She had many friends in the two Carolinas. Her
brother, Mr. C. G. Vardell, is president of Flora Macdonald College, while her husband is a well-known cotton manufacturer of
this state. The deceased was an active worker in many fields of activity. She was an officer of the State
Federation of Women's Clubs and actively engaged in church work, being also a musician and war worker.

Slugging Wildcats Defeat Petrels, 10-2

Enthusiastic stands made Richardson Field resound with the cheers of approval last Tuesday, April 17th, as Kugler pitched the Wildcat
nine to victory over the Oglethorpe Petrels, to the tune of 10-2. This marked the second successive victory over the
Georgians, 7-6 being the result of the preceding day at Concord.

Hal Johnson, the wide-awake center fielder, was the recipient of grandstand approval as he calmly gathered in all flies that
strayed into his vicinity. Taliaferro, of the Petrels’ nine, proved his slugging ability when he gained a three-base hit. Crawford
and Harrison, of Davidson, also showed up well.

The box score and summary are as follows:

OGLETHORPE
AB R H PO A E
Boswell, 2b-p ---------- 4 0 1 4 1 0
Thompson, c ---------- 4 0 1 5 2 0
Taliaferro, ss ---------- 4 0 1 4 2 1
Sumner, 1b ---------- 3 0 0 11 0 0
York, p ---------- 3 0 0 1 7 0
Wallace, rf ---------- 4 0 1 0 0 0
Morrison, cf ---------- 4 1 2 2 0 1
Martin, lf ---------- 2 0 0 1 0 0
Hudson, p ---------- 1 0 0 0 1 1
Reynolds, 3b ---------- 3 0 1 0 2 0

DAVIDSON
AB R H PO A E
Harrison, 2b ---------- 4 1 1 0 4 0
J. Kugler, ss ---------- 4 1 1 1 1 0
Ratchford, lf ---------- 4 2 1 2 0 0
Young, cf ---------- 4 3 1 0 0 0
McConnell, rf ---------- 4 0 1 2 0 0
Crawford, 1b ---------- 4 1 2 10 0 0
Littlejohn, 3b ---------- 5 0 1 0 4 2
McAulay, c ---------- 4 0 0 2 0 0
E. Kugler, p ---------- 2 0 0 0 0 0
Henderson, p ---------- 0 0 0 0 0 0

Score by innings: R H E
Oglethorpe ---------- 000 110 000— 2 7 5
Davidson ---------- 302 023 00x—10 10 0

Summary—Home run: Johnson; three-base hits: Taliaferro, Reynolds; two-base hits: Laird, Crawford; sacrifice hits: Turner, J. Kugler, E. Kugler; stolen bases:
Harrison (2), Crawford; struck out: by York 1, by Boswell 1, by Kugler 2; base on balls: off York 1,
off Boswell 3, off Meadows 1; left on base: Oglethorpe 6, Davidson 5; losing pitcher: York; winning pitcher: Kugler; umpire:
Brandon.

Classical Fraternity Chooses New Officers

At the last meeting of Gamma Nu Tau, a local classical fraternity, the officers for the coming year were chosen.
The officers chosen are: Everett Moye, president, and W. E. Hill, secretary and treasurer. Although it is not generally known,
this fraternity, commonly known as the Classical Club, changed its name early in the year to Gamma Nu Tau. At
the present time, the fraternity is petitioning a national classical fraternity. The purpose of the fraternity is to promote interest
in classical subjects and to give its members a deeper understanding and appreciation for the classics, the meeting being taken
up principally by the reading and discussion of papers on classical subjects. The meetings take place every other Thursday night,
and at the next meeting, Professor Gorr will present a paper to the fraternity on some classical subject.

JUNIOR SPEAKING
Friday, April 27, 7:30—Junior Oratorical Contest.
Saturday, April 28—
2:30—Track Meet: University of S. C.
5:00—Reception on Campus
7:30—Junior Minstrel.

Statesville Play House Theatre
Pick of the Pictures
Vaudeville

North Carolina

As Progressive as the Institution Behind It

Created in the Davidson Spirit and established on sound business principles, our store is the essence of the Student Body
which supports it. The trend is always forward. Every year the store greets a new generation of Davidson Men. Owned
and operated by the men it serves, it typifies their spirit.

THE STUDENTS STORE
"It’s Yours, Why Not Patronize It?"
