THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 2, 1928

-- Sport Talk --
News and Views of Wildcat Events
By Raymond Lake

Football, the king of college sports, is again taking its place as the center of interest on many of the college campuses. When the call was issued last Monday for spring practice, around 50 would-be gridiron stars turned out for practice on the Wildcat field, and have been hard at work since then. It is interesting as well as discouraging to note how many of last year’s team will not be back in the Wildcat uniform next year. Harrison, Nisbet, and Grey, the three Seniors in last year’s backfield, will all graduate, and Ed Wilson, last year’s quarter, has withdrawn from school and will not be in the lineup in 1928. Laws, Melton, Arrowood, Wearn, McGeachy, and others will be sadly missed in the line also. Some good material will come up from the Freshman class, but there is room for much more, and unless more good athletes start coming to Davidson in the next few years, the future of Wildcat athletics will not be so bright.

However, to offset the gloom cast by the loss of so much good football material, we have at least one athlete who will prove a winner for the Wildcats in the person of John Currie, captain of the Davidson track team for 1928. Quite a bit of doubt was current during the fall as to whether Currie would be here this spring, but he is here now and has registered and will lead the ’28 track team as captain. Quite a bit was said in this column last spring about the possibility of Davidson having a man in the Olympic meet next year. There still is a possibility of this, and if it can be worked out it will certainly be a help and an advertisement for the Wildcats. Currie has proven his ability on the track, and would no doubt carry off high honors if he were to enter the meet. As was stated in this column last spring, it would be mighty fine to have the world’s 100-yard dash record held by “Currie of Davidson.” There is nothing which would do the school more good and which is more sorely needed by Davidson than just such an advertisement as this.

Wrestling fans and all true Wildcats have a treat in store for them in the form of a wrestling match next Saturday night between Captain Garrison, of the Wildcat team, and the captain of the Tar Heel team. The whole meet will be interesting, but this match promises to be especially close. The Tar Heel captain claims to have never been thrown, and Garrison has never been thrown in a meet. A real treat is in store for those who appreciate a good wrestling match.

The basketball season, though seemingly just getting well under way, is really not very far from the end. The team will be leaving on the Southern trip in a week or so, and the home game is played before the beginning of the trip. After the Southern trip, there is a three-day trip North, and then the cage season will be closed for another year. If there is not a change in the way most of the games have come out so far, the Wildcat season will be a decided failure. We're probably a little ahead of time in speaking of the close of the season just yet, however. Many things could happen between now and the end of the season. Duke has the lead and is the favorite for state honors so far. Their game with the Tar Heels Saturday will prove interesting and will tell much to those who wish to predict the champions.

The Wildcat baseball team will have a pretty full season this year with 22 games on schedule. The pending game with the University of Pennsylvania here will be a good draw if it can be arranged. Davidson needs more games with larger teams. Even if we lose, playing a larger and well-known team helps out quite a bit and is an advertisement. It will be time for baseball practice to start in a few days. The season opens with a game here with Oak Ridge on March 23rd, and the diamond stars will have to start their workouts before very long to get in shape for the Oak Ridge team.

Nine Strong Teams Still Remain on Wildcat List
Quintet to Attempt Come-Back After Losing Three Games

Nine games remain on the Wildcats’ 1928 basketball schedule, offering more than ample opportunity for the Red and Black cagers to recuperate from the “slump” that has cost them three defeats in as many starts. Whether the Wildcat quintet possesses the strength to add games to the “win” column is at present a matter of conjecture, despite the fact that confidence is expressed on every hand in the potentialities of the Davidson team. The Wildcat cagers are admittedly weak in the matter of passing and shooting, and until improvement is shown in these two departments of play, chances of a comeback are slim. Slow and inaccurate passes combined with poor shooting have left the Wildcats trailing their opponents in all three of their inter-collegiate contests. The Davidson players have demonstrated no lack of vim in their eagerness to follow the ball, and their defensive tactics have been unusually praiseworthy. But, failure to follow-up the long shots has proved costly. Coach Younger is at work remedying the most apparent weaknesses, and there is still considerable optimism among supporters of the Wildcat quintet. That Captain Wilson and his teammates will pull through in creditable fashion is the hope of all.

Davidson’s Wake Forest Yearlings to Meet Fresh Tonight
Only Two More Games Scheduled on Home Grounds

The Davidson Wildkitten basketball team will be seen in action tonight for the first time since exams, when they take on the Freshman team from Wake Forest. The Wildkittens have a fast passing team and the game promises to be worthwhile from start to finish.

On the 23rd of February, Coach “Monk” Mattox’s charges will take on the basket team from Bingham prep school, a school located in Asheville, N. C. These are the only two games which the Freshmen are scheduled to play on home grounds. These two teams are rated among the best teams in the state, and the Wildkittens will have to play real basketball every minute to beat them. After these games, the ’Kittens will make a trip through the state. On this trip, they will meet the Freshman teams from various colleges.from such schools as Carolina, Duke, and State, together with several other teams. The Freshmen this year have an A-1 basketball team, a fact that anyone who has seen them in action will vouch for, and should make a strong bid for the state championship. Just before exams, they played the strong Oak Ridge aggregation and lost to them in the last few minutes of play by the heartbreaking margin of one point. The men who have been outstanding so far are: Rusk, McAllister, and Goodson. These men have been doing well in every game played, and a game with the Salisbury “Y” on Monday will provide them with a chance to definitely regain their self-confidence. Salisbury “Y” has been downed already by the Wildcats by a 47-43 score, and there is every reason to believe that the Davidson boys will duplicate their feat. Lenoir-Rhyne will be the next foe, following which the Wildcats will take a four-day rest. Citadel is next on the schedule, with the College of Charleston, Clemson, Furman, Wofford, and Wake Forest following in the order named.

Concord Grapplers Lose Second Time to Wildcats

On last Tuesday night, Davidson swamped the Concord “Y” wrestling team for the second time this season. The match was a thrilling one from the spectator’s viewpoint, one thrill following fast upon the heels of another. Concord did not register a fall or decision until the final engagement of the meet, when Umberger, former Duke star, threw Hampton, of Davidson, in a little over nine minutes. Captain Garrison, Hill, and Christenbury won their matches by falls, while Brown, Flythe, and Herriott won by time advantages. Summary: Flythe, of Davidson, won over Stirewalt, of Concord, by a time advantage of one minute, fifty seconds. Brown, Davidson, had a time advantage of seven minutes, forty seconds over Blackwelder, Concord. Herriott, Davidson, had an advantage of one minute, twenty-nine seconds on Burrage, Concord. Captain Garrison, Davidson, threw Nixon, Concord, in five minutes. Christenbury, Davidson, threw Hansel, Concord, in four minutes twenty-five seconds. Hill, Davidson, threw Erwin, Concord, in five minutes. Umberger, Concord, threw Hampton, Davidson, in nine minutes, twenty-five seconds.

ANIMAL SPIRITS

The Montreal tramway service is suing McGill University for $1,000 damages done by students who painted street-cars during various periods of celebration. The McGill Daily believes it possible that some of its present or former students may paint cars for a living, if the Montreal cars ever are painted—“which we doubt”—but it adds that on the whole McGill graduates are not fortunate enough to get jobs as skilled painters, usually resorting to professorships or employment in insurance.

Wildcat Track Captain Returns to Lead Team

Mainstay of Last Year’s Cinder Team Returns

John Currie, Davidson’s “fastest human,” has returned to the fold after a protracted absence and is raring to feel the cinder track once more. Much concern had been felt around the campus over Currie’s failure to return last fall because he had been one of the track squad’s mainstays and was captain-elect for the season of 1928. The Eastern Carolina flash placed his name in the state hall of fame by running the 100-yard dash in 9.6 at the state meet last spring, a state record and only one-tenth of a second behind Charlie Paddock’s world mark of 9.5. He also walked away with the 220 and ran on the relay team that won the trophy cup at the state meet. Davidson’s track schedule this spring is one of the most comprehensive ever undertaken by a team here and will require plenty of fight and ability if the meets are to be placed on the winning side of the ledger. Frye, Leftwich, Kell, Melton, Brown, O’Neal, and Currie are lettermen from last year around whom the team must be built. Several promising sophomores are coming up, chief among whom are Whittle, Brohard, Gardner, and Lafferty. The line-up for the game tonight is not definitely known but will probably be as follows: Rusk, forward; McCall or Overman, forward; McAllister, center; Goodson, guard; Proctor, guard.

Davidson Matmen to Meet Tar Heels

After two victories over the Concord grapplers, the Wildcats will hook up with the University of North Carolina matmen here on Saturday afternoon at 4:00 o’clock. The ’Cats are out for blood this year because last season the Tar Heels won by the one-sided score of 20-3, Captain Frierson being the only Wildcat to register a win. The Carolina team will arrive at Davidson sometime Friday afternoon and, consequently, will have a full night’s rest before the meet. Only three men are left from last year’s varsity squad, Captain Garrison, Flythe, and Hill. Some very promising sophomores have come out this spring, and several of these new men are sure to see action in Saturday’s match. Coach Tilson has been working steadily in an effort to whip his men into winning shape, and the ’Cats will take the mat in a do-or-die spirit. Carolina defeated Concord “Y” by approximately the same score that the Davidson men amassed, and while comparative scores mean little or nothing as a rule, still it would seem that the two teams are fairly evenly matched, and a good scrap is sure to result. The feature match of the afternoon is expected to come when Captain Garrison, of Davidson, hooks up with Abbott, of Carolina, in the 145 class. Abbott is said to have never been defeated by either a fall or a decision, and this record speaks for itself. Everybody around these parts knows Jeff Garrison and his mat prowess. He is probably Davidson’s best bet. When these two get together the fur will fly or we miss our guess badly. Carolina will line up as follows: 115, Moore; 125, Zealy; 135, Thompson; 145, Abbott; 155, Saunders; 175, Tilford; unlimited, Morehead. Davidson’s line-up will be: 115, Flythe; 125, Brown; 135, Pritchett or Herriot; 145, Captain Garrison; 155, Brohard or Christenbury; 175, Hill; unlimited, Warren, Baker, or Hampton.

Complete Line of the Most Distinctive Stationery for College Men

Plain and Die Stamped Fountain Pens, Note Books, Ink, Paste, Etc.; Victrolas, Records, Films

We Lend Kodaks

SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE

Davidson Book and Stationery Co.

“Where Service and Quality Reign”