THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 19, 1928

National Contest Will be Held in the Spring
Seven Schools Will Compete at Davidson for State Representative in Oratoricals
Exams to be Followed by Many House Parties

The North Carolina Oratorical Contest is to be held at Davidson on March 30, 1928. Seven schools will be represented in the contest—Davidson, Wake Forest, Atlantic Christian College, Lenoir-Rhyne, Elon, and Guilford. About five men are now working to participate in the preliminary contest to be held about the 15th of February. The subjects will be anything bearing on the Constitution of the United States. This is an international contest. The Southern representative goes to Los Angeles this year, and afterwards, he goes abroad to England. Cash prizes will be awarded at this contest.

The Peace Contest is to be held at Elon College some time in April. About five men are working up for this contest and the subject will deal with Peace or the movements to aid Peace. Prizes will be awarded, $75 for the first best oration, and $50 for the second.

The first all-male sewing club is flourishing in Carroll College under the auspices of the University of California. This club has enrolled eight members who can darn socks and other wearing apparel with feminine deftness.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

You’ll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The less fortunate inmates of this noble institution who know not the meaning of the period, are at this time desperately laboring over the tasks as laid down by the curriculum. The tasks of a certain few of these men are no more than they were originally intended by this ancient custom, while that certain majority that is the ruling element where men assemble, are struggling under the yoke made even more burdensome by the practice that has almost become classed among the popular indoor sports, procrastination.

Ten days of this grind will be experienced and from the mill will appear an evolutionized student body. Some of the most familiar faces will be missing from the usual duties of the day, but even some of these men will remain on the campus long enough to make their lingering departure of the most pleasant type. Others who count this period as simply another experience in the stone-covered path, will enter wholeheartedly into the attempt to shake any uncertain feeling that they might possibly have experienced.

The week-end that immediately follows the examination period will not prove unlike the similar week-ends of the days of yore. Again the fair maidens and general pulchritude that are Dixie’s alone will flock to the campus when the fraternities stage house parties and have a general period of festivities. The parties are usually staged at this date and they are the greatest success of all those pulled. Many are the men who met the new weakness while he was home for Christmas holidays! Many also are the Freshmen, who wear the large pledge button in the lapel of their coats, that have inveigled the sweet little thing into coming down for a week-end! And again, even the said Senior that went away for the holidays while others were taking exams, probably will return to his duties enamored with some new maiden!

All these fair ones will come to the campus to enjoy what will probably prove to be one of the largest series of parties staged at Davidson for quite a while. The Pan-Hellenic Council has taken this week-end over and are making the plans for the entertainment of all those present. This is the first time that an event like this has been had at Davidson and the fraternities and the student body as a whole are entering wholeheartedly into the occasion and it is expected to be a great success.

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
Complete line of Wright and Ditson, Spalding, Reach and Goldsmith
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Boys, we have them--all the Cold Weather Togs. Got the right ones too. In Smart Snappy Top Coats, all that’s new and nobby. In Lumber Jacks, the Sweaters you like, got plenty of them. Fit any of you boys. Come to see us. If in need of any Oxfords, Shoes, Shirts, Neckwear, Suits or a nice Top Coat come in; we can supply your wants.

THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO
5th Door from Bank

BELK BROTHERS CO.
Boys, we have them--the Cold Weather Togs. Got the right ones too. In Smart Snappy Top Coats, all that’s new and nobby. In Lumber Jacks, the Sweaters you like, got plenty of them. Fit any of you boys. Come to see us. If in need of any Oxfords, Shoes, Shirts, Neckwear, Suits or a nice Top Coat come in; we can supply your wants.Enough. Want you to have some of Gloves. And Young Men’s Suits, the wears and looks like a real tailor-made outfit. BELK BROTHERS CO. TENN, C. And Gloves, call us up, any “White Ones” too. Any kind of and that for a great deal. Special events of the entire school year. Charlotte, as in former times, will probably be the scene of the feast. The exodus to the Queen City is an affair of note. On that night the haughty Sophs are in their glory, the gathering marking an important milestone in their college careers, and many a Davidson man remembers the time of the Soph banquet as the high-water mark in his life at the old school.

Committees will be appointed soon after the second semester begins, and the time, place, and manner of entertainment will be definitely decided upon. It is the wish of the present Sophomores to make this banquet the very best that Davidson has ever seen, and judging from indications now, they are going to do that very thing. It is a safe bet that a fine program of entertainment will be arranged, good speakers will be secured, and a general feeling of good fellowship will be in evidence when the class of 1930 holds its big “love feast.”

Local Battalion Gains Big Holiday as Result of Showing at Review
Military Unit Wins Praise From Military Officials Though Review Immediately Follows Vacation
NO DRILL JANUARY 18
Battalion Aspires to Retain Distinguished Rating Won the Last Two Years

The R.O.T.C. Battalion of Davidson enjoyed a rest on Wednesday, January 18th, there being no drill held at either the morning or afternoon period on that day. This welcome let-up came as a result of the excellent showing made on January 4th before the distinguished group of army officials, headed by Maj. Gen. Richmond P. Davis, commanding officer of the Fourth Corps Area, of which Davidson is a part. Coming back to college after a vacation of two weeks, the local unit entered into the review with such a spirit that high praise for the entire battalion was forthcoming from the attending officers.

This brief vacation from drill comes at a most opportune time. Examinations are nearly here and, as a result, most of the men need every minute of the time for preparation. They will appreciate the let-up all the more for this reason, and will be ready to enter into the period of hard work at the beginning of the next semester. Prospects for again obtaining distinguished rating from the War Department are very bright at present. To win this honor means a great deal to Davidson, and every man in the student body feels a keen interest in the spring inspection, which is held to decide whether or not the various units gain distinguished rating from the army officials.

Painting of Seats Done, Coach Tests Co-operative Plan

For the past two weeks curious students have watched a corps of men spraying paint upon the bleachers surrounding the athletic field. The task was finished by last week and on Monday morning Coach Monk Younger came before the students assembled in chapel, asking that any and all students who had any spare time, come down on the field and assist in the carrying in of the bleachers which had been painted and had just dried. After his departure, it was pointed out that, due to the proximity of exams and the need of some of the students for preparation, no entire class could be called upon as a unit to do this work. On Monday afternoon, Coaches Monk Younger, Tex Tilson, and Monk Mattox, assisted by the “D” club, met on the field and were able to carry in the fifteen-tier bleachers, leaving only the ten-tier ones to be stored before the rainy season set in.

The bleachers painted should be in excellent shape for at least two years or more. By the end of this time, it has been stated that the permanent cement stadium will be completed. The present unit was presented to the college along with the athletic field by the Richardson family of Greensboro. The present seating equipment of the field will seat, roughly speaking, sixty-five hundred people. This includes the seating capacity of the concrete stadium. This is the first time that the bleachers have ever been painted. They are stored during the winter months when there are no athletic engagements on the athletic field, under the concrete stadium.

B.J. Reveaide Temecep suits my taste like nobody's business. I KNOW what I like in a pipe, and what I like is good old Prince Albert. Fragrant as can be. Cool and mild and long-burning, right to the bottom of the bowl. Welcome as the weekend reprieve. Welcome... and satisfying! No matter how often I load up and light up, I never tire of good old P.A. Always friendly. Always companionable. P.A. suits my taste. I'll say it does. Take my tip, Fellows, and load up from a tidy red tin.

PRINCE ALBERT — no other tobacco is like it! The tidy red tin that’s packed with pipe-joy.