December 13, 1928
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

HELP GET THOSE BAND UNIFORMS

CAT TRAX
As They Follow the Red and Black
By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Well, it is all over now, except the usual squabble over mythical teams. Those picks are representative rather than complete,
for there are inevitably any number of excellent men who must be left off. It’s hard enough to choose an
all-state, but think of the material in selecting your all-southern eleven. Don’t feel bad if your pet star doesn’t get
first pick—usually it is just a case of a toss-up as to which is the better man.

The “old army game” seems to work pretty well out around Tennessee way. Any team that drops only one game
in three years of stiff competition has had its share of luck, and we suspect that the Volunteers have a
system all of their own. Florida, however, must have had her share of bad breaks in the classic which Bob
Neyland’s boys copped. It’s tough to drop any game by the points after touchdown, and it is funny how these
fellows always miss ’em at critical times.

Jan Jankoskie, Duke’s big “little man,” certainly ripped that Tar Heel line to pieces Saturday. Four or five yards a
clip is what the Milwaukee brewer was stepping off, and the big men in Collins’ line just couldn’t put the
brakes on his antics. To make the general discomfiture worse, Buie and Bill Murray ran like demons any time they
felt like it. We think that Davidson's little red line held the Blue Devils infinitely better than did the Tar
Heels in that first half. But when the Heels got started on the grand final it was only a matter
of minutes. They trotted out six or seven of their backfield aces and began to run every way but up.
This Erickson is one fast streak, and the way Jim Wagner smashed the Duke line was a terrible sight. House
and Ward did their part to perfection also. It’s a shame to see all those good backs sitting on Mr.
Collins’ bench when some of these other teams have trouble putting even four steady men on the field.

Next year is going to see a renovated Wildcat team. Of that we are sure. The backfield will be stronger
by a good deal, and if Tex Tilson can build a line that played as this season’s line did out
of the material he had, then we say that he can do as well next year in spite of the
dearth of letter men available. Brock and David are going to go mighty good on the flanks, and Bill Mason
is going to give any center around here all he can handle.

We understand that the University of Virginia is negotiating for the opening game next fall. How would it be to
play Virginia, Clemson, and Army in a row? Frankly, we don’t know. At any rate it would give Davidson the
most completely difficult schedule of games that a small school around these parts has ever undertaken. Hampden-Sidney used to start
with Virginia every year, but they didn’t have the forces of “Red” Cagle in the offing.

The physical culture class conducted by Captain Pritchett is undoubtedly one of the best innovations ever brought to Davidson. It
will build men if adhered to rigidly, and the way the students are starting out, it seems to be certain
that a large number will be out when the spring period closes. Pritchett is filling a need long felt at
Davidson, and he is doing his work in a way that commands thorough cooperation. Back him up to the limit.

Cage activities are gaining momentum daily, and it won’t be so long till the varsity and freshmen quints will strut
their wares before the student body. Not so much is known about the yearlings, but Tilson is whipping a formidable
five into shape, and has several men that look good for future varsities. Hope we get to see the teams
in action before the holidays. That would give some idea of what to expect after Christmas. We have a hunch
that Monk's Christmas present to the college

Davidson Picks Strong Eleven
For All-State Honors

BROCK GETS END
—Many Excellent Players Place for All-State Selection—Wildcats Heavy Line and Driving Backfield

N. C. State, Duke, and Carolina Men Win Majority of Positions

Davidson contributes Thad Brock as left end and Odell Sapp walks off with the other flank. Brock was the hardest
working player in the state this year. He kicked, passed, and played one whale of a game on defense. He
is light, but we believe he is as deserving of a berth as any of the others. Brock is going
to be a real luminary in another year. Sapp’s ability as a pass receiver and his long experience entitle him
to the other end. Rosky, Duke, Fenner and Presson, Carolina, and Jordan, State, were all good at times, as was
David at Davidson.

Sam Buie has quarterback pretty well cinched, it seems to us, though Adams at State, and Erickson at Carolina are
versatile and deceptive men. Buie runs, kicks, or passes with the best of them, and to top it all is
a fine field general. The halfbacks are the hardest places to fill, because there are a dozen fine prospects. We
side with Murray and Magner, but pay high tribute to Kell, Davidson’s flash, Tom Nash, of Collins’ brigade, Tex Quillen,
of Wake Forest, Melton, of State, Hollingsworth, Duke, and Ward, Carolina.

Bob Warren has proved to be such a tower of strength in every way to the N. C. State Wolfpack
that we cannot very well do him out of the fullback prize. Warren is one of the hardest men to
stop that the state has ever seen, and he is very good indeed on defense. Jankoskie, Jimmy DeHart’s big gun,
was late starting, but he came back with a vim in his latter games, and the fact remains that he
still shows the way when it comes to hitting the middle of that old line.

The Davidsonian offers its All-State football team with no apologies. There is a wealth of good material in the state
this season, both in the line and in the backfield, and we are unmindful of any worthy candidates. Our second
team is almost as strong as the first, but we feel that in sixty minutes of play No. 1 would
triumph by a small margin. Duke University leads with seven places. N. C. State cops six, Carolina five, Davidson three,
and Wake Forest gets one.

THE DAVIDSONIAN’S ALL-STATE

First Team
L. E., Brock—Davidson.
L. T., Weatherby—Duke.
L. G., Farris—U. N. C.
C., Metts—N. C. State.
R. G., Vaughan—N. C. State.
R. T., Lepo—N. C. State.
R. E., Sapp—U. N. C.
Q. B., Buie—Duke.
R. H., Magner—U. N. C.
L. H., Murray—Duke.
F. B., Warren—N. C. State.

Second Team
L. E., Rosky—Duke.
L. T., Kistler—Duke.
L. G., Schuler—U. N. C.
C., McConnell—Davidson.
R. G., Schuler—U. N. C.
R. T., Weir—Wake Forest.
R. E., Jordan—N. C. State.
Q. B., Adams—N. C. State.
L. H., Nash—U. N. C.
R. H., Kell—Davidson.
F. B., Jankoskie—Duke.of yore, but he played in and out ball and never seemed to get started.

Not All-American Team By “College Humor”

Mizell Placed at End Position as Compromise

College Humor surveyed the country’s grid camps and then received expressions from the most prominent coaches before making its annual
selections. The greatest problem of the day was in placing the five best backfield players into the four positions, and
it compromised by placing Mizell, Georgia Tech, at end.

All-American Eleven (Selections made December 1, 1928)
End—Lawler, Princeton
Tackle—Pommerening, Michigan
Guard—Mooney, Georgetown
Center—Barrager, Sou. California
Guard—Miller, Notre Dame
Tackle—Nowack, Illinois
End—Mizell, Georgia Tech
Quarterback—Harpster, Carnegie Tech
Halfback—Cagle, Army
Halfback—Strong, New York University
Fullback—Hoffman, Stanford

Our center position goes to Bill Metts, that tough boy from Gus Tebell’s camp. Metts is good enough for any
man’s line, and we rate him the best of a good crop this year. Riggs McConnell of Davidson is our
next choice. In every game this season, the Wildcat star has led his team on defense. He is a peppy,
wide-awake leader and a man who will never stop fighting. Schwartz of Carolina, Hunter of Duke, and Parker of Wake
Forest are all good, with the first two probably the best. Schwartz may have torn things up in out-of-the-state games,
but every time we have watched him play, he failed to show the extraordinary ability so often attributed to him.
Hunter played consistently well, while Parker, only a sophomore, showed that a brilliant future lies in store for him.

The guards were not very hard to pick, since there were two men like Farris and Vaughan available, both of
whom have been mentioned as All-Dixie prospects. Jones and Schuler, veterans, get the second call. Brummitt, Duke, Smith and Harper,
Davidson, and Blackwood, Carolina, all demonstrated the characteristics of good guards but didn’t quite make the grade.

Weatherby, Duke, and Lepo, State, are clearly the best of the tackles. Weatherby’s superb play in the Carolina game alone
puts him in the running, but he has played great football all year. Lepo is a big husky and plenty
hard to handle. His brand of play has been every bit as good as it was last year when he
sewed up an all-state berth, and we don’t feel that he should be removed. Weir, Demon Deacon captain, and Kistler,
captain-elect at Duke, are about the next best in our opinion, although Leftwitch, Wildcat lineman, runs either one of them
a close second. Koenig and Howard played in spurts and did not.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Football Letters Awarded By Council

Eighteen Varsity Letters Given and Seventeen Freshman Numerals

At a meeting of the Athletic Council held Monday night, varsity football letters were awarded to the following men: A.
W. Baker, captain; W. W. Fraley, R. O. Flinn, Jr., R. E. Kell, T. W. Brohard, S. L. Black, Riggs
McConnell, Sam Smith, H. Y. Harper, A. L. DeCamp, W. C. Archie, D. O. Leftwitch, T. Brock, W. L. David,
W. N. Middleton, C. H. Mauzy, Jr., manager. Service letters were given to J. R. Covington and J. T. Kerr.

Freshman numerals were awarded to C. M. Miller, L. S. Raker, P. S. Hudgins, C. W. Arnold, W. W. Scales,
H. S. Brown, A. L. Goodson, R. Bradshaw, J. T. Bradshaw, D. S. King, D. M. McQueen, M. L. Brohard,
W. R. Milton, C. G. Slaughter, J. D. McConnell, P. M. Conway, A. J. Baker.

The Council passed a motion that the freshman manager would receive a minor letter and would be assigned additional duties
as an assistant to the varsity manager. He will be chosen by the football letter men, election to be held
immediately after the election of the varsity manager. The Council also endorsed the movement on foot to obtain uniforms for
the band.

Younger Drills Men In Preparation For Hard Court Season

New Method of Defense Taught Squad—Probably Light Game Before Holidays

FROSH BUSY
Kittens Meet Oak Ridge Cadets in Opener on January Eighth—Promising Material

The varsity basketball outfit, led by Capt. Carl Pritchett, has completed its third week of strenuous workouts in preparation for
some particularly hard tilts, slated to usher in the present cage season. Coach Younger has covered the fundamentals thoroughly and
is now drilling the squad on the finer points of the game. New and more effective methods of both defense
and offense are being introduced by Coach Younger into Davidson’s court system. The five-man defense that has formerly been used
by the Wildcat basketeers will be replaced this year by a very thorough system of zone defense. With this, Coach
Younger hopes to eliminate a great number of the crip shots that the old method allowed the opponents. New and
improved methods of shooting are also being used by the Cat cagers this season. The first game on the present
schedule is a contest with the Furman five on January 9. This being a tough foe to take on in
the season’s opener, efforts will probably be made for the Davidson cagers to see action against some “Y” five before
that date.

Having tucked their moleskins safely away after a fairly successful season, the Wildkittens have turned their attention to perfecting themselves
in the strenuous sport of basketball. This week marks the beginning of the third week of practice. The practice sessions
are held nightly at seven-thirty o'clock. The squad now consists of about thirty men, all eagerly waiting for the whistle
which marks the beginning of the first game. The practices have so far been slightly handicapped by the epidemic of
flu that has been making its rounds. Coach Tilson, who is coaching the Wildkittens, seems to be well pleased with
the way his proteges are conducting themselves. It is too early in the season to attempt to pick a team,
but the following men are showing up exceptionally well: Mathis, King, Melton, Montgomery, Lane, Potts, Arnold, Hutaff, and Kirks. P.
T. Shanks, J. E. Ruff, and B. E. Allen are freshman candidates for manager. The schedule has not been completed,
but a trip is being arranged that will carry the team into Virginia. The first game will probably be played
on the eighth of January with Oak Ridge.

STOP! From the Show at WILDCAT CAFE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
HOME COOKED FOOD
OPEN TILL 11 P. M.

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE
S & W Cafeterias are catering to you
ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

May Your Christmas be as MERRY as you have made OLD GOLD’S

A year ago OLD GOLD'S holiday message to its many friends was entitled “OLD GOLD'S first Christmas.” OLD GOLD was
then just the infant prodigy among cigarettes. But, thanks to its three million new friends, and its countless old ones,
OLD GOLD has grown four hundred percent. The infant has become a strapping young giant. OLD GOLD is America’s fastest
growing cigarette. You have given OLD GOLD a wonderful Christmas by your kind patronage and cordial goodwill. And in deepest
appreciation, we say to all our friends, “May your Christmas be as merry as you have made OLD GOLD’S.” We
thank you.

P. LORILLARD CO. INCORPORATED SINCE 1760
