THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 9, 1928

Alumni Council Makes Changes In Fiscal Methods of Office; Alumni Magazine Receives O.K.

Members of Council at Loss to Explain Lack of Interest by Alumni

DEFICIT CONSIDERED

Alumni Quarterly Approved by Council—Will Appear March 1

Important changes in the policy and program of the alumni office were effected at a meeting of the Alumni Council
last Friday evening, attended by five of the six members of that body. As a result of the action taken
by the Council at its meeting Friday, the finances of the alumni office will henceforth be handled on a strictly
business basis, free from much of the sentiment that has heretofore prevailed in the raising of alumni funds.

Following a report by Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, which showed that a deficit of more than four hundred dollars existed
in the alumni fund, and that only 192 of the 3,500 alumni had responded to repeated pleas for financial assistance,
the alumni council went into an exhaustive discussion of methods for perfecting the fiscal policy of the alumni office. Various
plans were suggested, none of which met with the approval of the council as a whole, until the plan of
sending regular statements to each of the alumni was proposed.

The plan, which is in vogue at Georgia Tech, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, and numerous other southern and eastern colleges and
universities, recognizes the obligation of each alumnus to support the association to the extent of the dues assessed by the
Council. Consequently, a bill for annual dues will be mailed to each alumnus who has failed to previously contribute, and
subsequent notices will be provided for delinquent accounts. This method will obviate the necessity of appointing class agents and association
treasurers. It will result in an efficient system of accounting, and each alumnus will be called upon to make his
contributions to the support of the association in a strictly business-like manner.

Under authorization of the Council, the alumni office will continue to operate on the basis of the budget agreed to
at the close of last year, and will not cut short its operations until it has reached the limit permitted
under the budget. It is believed that under the new method of securing funds, the deficit now existing in the
funds of the alumni office will be entirely eliminated.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks
Sheaffer Pens and Pencils
Seal Stationery
Pennants and Pillows
Wildcat Belts
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

RUINED
A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharge over 1,000 gallons of water in 30 minutes, or about 35 gallons in 60 seconds.
No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our SPRINKLER LEAKAGE POLICY. The cost is a trifle compared with
the protection.
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
McALISTER CARSON (’13) Mgr.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Dr. John Alexander Shaw, '22, will be married to Miss Marie Winship Stedman, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Haywood
Stedman, of Fayetteville on Wednesday evening, February 15, at eight o'clock, First Presbyterian Church of Fayetteville.

Rev. Archibald Douglas McArn, ‘20, was married to Miss Mary Belle Sullivan on Thursday, January 19. Rev. and Mrs. McArn
are now at home at Camden, S. C.

Dr. Sellers Mark Crisp, '16, was married to Miss Rose Nowell, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. L. A. Nowell, of
Colerain, N. C., on Thursday evening, February 4, at the Colerain Baptist Church. Dr. Crisp, a graduate of Davidson, the
University of North Carolina, and the University of Pennsylvania, is a prominent young physician of Greenville, where he and his
bride will make their home. A wedding trip to New York followed the marriage ceremony.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Captain W. A. Dumas, '15, Detailed To West Point By U. S. War Department

Information recently supplied by a Davidson classmate calls to mind the exceptional achievements of Capt. W. A. Dumas, '15, who
has been practicing law with offices at 700 Travelers Building. He is also connected with the University of Richmond Law
School, serving as an instructor in Contract and Tort Law.

John A. McCrary, ’22, who for several years has been a teller for the Bank of Lexington, N. C., was
recently elected as M. Ray Doubles, in Richmond, Va.The discussion of financial matters, the Alumni Council on motion of Mr.
J. A. Scott, vice-president, tentatively approved the proposal of an Alumni Quarterly, to be published four times during the year.
Mr. Scott’s motion provided, however, that no effort should be made to publish the magazine unless and until a definite
plan had been approved by a representative of the Council whereby no further financial burden would be incurred by the
association. It was pointed out by proponents of the Quarterly that it could in all probability be published without cost
to the association, the income from advertising to provide the necessary funds. The first issue of the magazine will appear
on or about March 1, provided the provisions of the Council’s agreement are complied with.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE NORTON’S BARBER SHOP M. B. SPEIR, JR.

Gordonville, February. Dumas, ‘15, who has recently been recalled from the field by the War Department to take over the
position of instructor in the Department of Military Science and Tactics at the government academy at West Point, in the
promotion of musical and dramatic productions, and was one of the leaders in the Fort Benning glee club. At West
Point, he has demonstrated a continued interest in dramatics and has been a leader in the Little Theater movement on
the West Point campus. A number of the productions, which he has sponsored at West Point, have been well received
on Broadway.

Since 1917, Captain Dumas has been stationed in Siberia, in China, in the Philippines, and in various cantonments on the
American continent. Aside from his duties as an instructor at West Point, he is in command of a company of
100 cadets and is teaching Military History. He writes that his wife and two children are so imbued with the
Davidson spirit that they consider themselves alumni of the college also. Captain Dumas’ appointment to the faculty at West Point
came as a distinct surprise both to him and to his friends, since this is the first time in 125
years that a non-graduate of the academy has been called to such a post. He has been the recipient of
warm congratulations as a result of this signal recognition of his ability.

For five years previous to his removal to West Point, Captain Dumas served as a member of the faculty at
the army school at Fort Benning, Ga., where army officers are detailed for advanced study.

James E. McCrary has taken an active part in his new duties. Mr. McCrary succeeds Williams, resigned. Since his graduation
from Davidson in 1922, Mr. McCrary has served the Bank of Lexington in various capacities, except for a brief time
when he acted as secretary of the Lexington Perpetual Building and Loan Association during the illness of his father.

News of the admission of David M. McComb, Jr., ’25, to the North Carolina bar was lately received here. McComb,
following his graduation at Davidson, entered the University of North Carolina law school, at which he is still a student.
He was the only Davidson alumnus included in the long list of young legal students admitted to the bar after
a recent state examination.

George A. Coan, Jr., ’11, prominent Winston-Salem financier, was recently appointed chairman of the Community Chest campaign in that city.
His appointment to the chairmanship of the Community Chest is only one of many recognitions of his ability that have
been given attention by the public press during the past few weeks.

February 11th, we will present a prize to the student or town’s person, lady or gentleman, who guesses nearest the
score of the Basketball game between Davidson College and The Citadel next Saturday evening. Turn in your guess at our
store not later than six P.M. Saturday. The score will be published in the Sunday papers, and announcement of the
winner will be made Monday at noon. You will be allowed to select any box of Writing Paper you like,
and in the event of two or more people guessing the same, each will be awarded one box of the
same.

Davidson Book and Stationery Co. “Where Service and Quality Reign”
