THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 12, 1928

Glee Club Wins Second Place in State Contest For College Clubs

At Durham on December 11, 1927, thirty-one men of the Davidson Glee Club, including Professor Cullum, the director, were transported by means of a bus and an automobile to Durham, where, the next evening, they represented Davidson in the annual State Glee Club contest. The first honors of the contest were awarded to Duke University, they having one more point than the Wildcat singers.

The contest was sponsored by the Durham Chamber of Commerce, which paid the entire expense of all clubs participating. All the singers were entertained at the Washington Duke Hotel. Prior to the contest, on the evening of December 12th, all the participants were entertained at a banquet, given in the Memorial Hall at Duke University. At this time, speeches were delivered by representatives of the various Durham civic organizations who were active in helping to sponsor the affair. The music for the occasion was rendered by the Duke University Quartet. An interesting feature of the occasion was a mass meeting of all the clubs, directed by Major Price, of State College.

The Glee Clubs entering the contest were representatives of: Duke University, Guilford College, State College, and Davidson. The University Glee Club was barred by a recent ruling of the National Association, that a student must be prepared and lead the club in person during the contest. However, Carolina had representatives present. The judges were: Mrs. Potter, of the Raleigh Public Schools; Mr. Spookey, of the High Point Public Schools; and Dr. Crosby Adams, of Montreat. During the retirement of the judges, music was rendered by the quartets of the various contestants. The Davidson quartet was composed of Proctor Thompson, J. S. Gray, Johnny Foster, and Bob Lowrance.

The judges announced as their final decision that Duke had obtained, by the score of one point more than Davidson, the right to represent North Carolina in the Southern District Contest of the National Association.

“Y” Column

The speaker at “Y” this Sunday will be the Rev. Joe Walker, pastor of the College Presbyterian Church at N. C. State. He is an old Davidson man, who was prominent while on the campus. He is a Master of Arts, an O. D. K. man, and otherwise well known in various fields of achievement. He will bring a message that will apply directly to college men, and will be worth your time. Hear him—“Y” at 6:15.

There are many men who still desire to take some part in the work of the “Y” and who as yet have been unable to find a place in the work of the Master. If these men will only drop by and talk it over with the secretary or with any of the cabinet, it is felt that some work may be given them, and in that way, they will soon have an active part in the “Y’s” work. Don’t put it off, if you are one of these fellows, but have it arranged now.

The series of Vocational Guidance meetings will start about the 11th of February, under the direction of Julian Lake. There will be many new ideas to be gained from these meetings, and in every way, they promise to be a fine opportunity which should be of great help to many men.

The leader of the Spring Evangelistic services has been decided upon in the choice of Rev. Sam Glasgow, of the First Presbyterian Church of Knoxville, Tenn. If it is possible to secure the services of this well-known preacher, the meetings...

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see M. P. Crawford
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

EAT AT THE ASTOR
LUNCH SERVICE — THE BEST OF COOKING —
Charlotte, N. C.

Two New Degrees Offered By Duke

Durham, N. C., Jan. 7 (CP)—The announcement was made here today by Dean W. H. Wannamaker, of the complete revision of the courses in civil engineering and the offering of two new degrees, Bachelor of Science in civil engineering and Bachelor of Science in electrical engineering for those completing these revised courses. While the revised courses are effective for the class of 1932, the present Freshman and Sophomore classes in engineering may become eligible for new degrees under certain conditions.

The minimum requirement for either of the new degrees is one hundred and thirty-eight semester hours of work, most of which is prescribed. About forty semester hours are devoted to the major engineering group. The need of engineers to have knowledge of economics and business law is recognized by requiring six semester hours of work in the department of economics and political science. For the past year, the engineering department has been actively interested in revising the curricula so that the engineering courses offered at Duke might represent the best ideas in engineering education. Over 138 engineering colleges have been studied in this process of change.will be arranged for the early or middle part of March. More definite news will be given later.

BANNER ELK
(Continued from page one)

total of twenty scholarships. These aids are to be distributed under the charge of Edgar Tufts to boys who are able to do the work in the school and who can make good use of the training. The amount needed for one student a year is one hundred and fifty dollars. If fifty dollars of this amount can be obtained, the boy can work at the school and earn the rest or its equivalent and thus attend the institution. Thus the Davidson subscriptions will enable some twenty boys to attend the Banner Elk School for one year.

The student body of the school is made up of mountain boys. Being located in the most wild and out-of-the-way place among that section of the Carolina mountains, there is very little opportunity for the children to obtain the advantages of even an elementary education, much less a chance for the privileges of higher training. Therefore, the giving of aid of the value mentioned above to twenty boys by means of some personal sacrifice is indeed a worthwhile deed.

Mr. Tufts, by means of personal letters to the Y. M. C. A. and bulletins to Jim Appleby and Hugh Arrowood, is endeavoring to keep Davidson in complete knowledge of the progress of the mountain work, and anyone interested in a more complete and detailed account of the events at the school can get the information from the above-mentioned sources.

Kappa Alphas Meet in Atlanta

The thirty-fourth Biennial Convention of the Kappa Alpha Fraternity was held in Atlanta, Ga., from December 29th through December 31st. The convention headquarters was the Atlanta Biltmore Hotel, chapter delegates staying there and the meetings being held in the convention room of the hotel.

The convention was formally opened on the morning of the 29th by the Knight Commander of the Fraternity, Bishop H. J. Mikell, of Atlanta. A few reports were made and the delegates then went into the election of a convention president. Judge Candler, of Atlanta, was elected to this office and presided at the meetings throughout the convention.

Thursday evening the Kappa Alpha Ball was given at the Piedmont Driving Club, Atlanta, with about 250 young ladies present. About 106 delegates and alumni attended the convention, besides a number of unofficial visitors. Sigma Chapter, of Davidson, was represented by Julian Lake as delegate. Other members of Sigma Chapter present were: Frank McCrary, Charlie Carson, Bob Erckman, Dutch Wearn, Dick Flinn, F. S. Wearn, Riggs McConnell, Joe Willard.

A model initiation was held in one of the Episcopal churches of Atlanta on Friday evening, and this was followed by a smoker at the Atlanta Biltmore. The final business meeting of the convention was brought to a close at noon Saturday, and that afternoon the delegates and alumni were driven out to Stone Mountain, near Atlanta. Saturday evening, in the Pompeian Room of the Atlanta Biltmore, the convention banquet was held. A number of noted alumni were present and speakers of the evening included Judge Thos. H. Jeffries, of Atlanta; Knight Commander Mikell, and ex-Gov. Thos. G. McLeod, of South Carolina.

One of the most important proposals brought before the convention and passed was the motion to erect a general headquarters building in Richmond, Va. Construction of this building will be begun at an early date. Regular meetings of the delegates were held each morning, at which time officers were elected and other business transacted. Bishop Mikell was re-elected Knight Commander of the Fraternity.

A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharge over 1,000 gallons of water in 30 minutes, or about 35 gallons in 60 seconds. No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our SPRINKLER LEAKAGE POLICY. The cost is a trifle compared with the protection.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McALISTER CARSON ('13) Mer.
M. B. SPEIR, JR. ('26)

Somebody Is Always Taking the Joy Out of Life
By BRIGGS

BYBRY NIGHT

I WONDER IF THE GUY THAT NAMED THESE SLEEPING CARS EVER TRIED TO SLEEP IN ONE - AND THEN JUST AS YOU DOZE OFF THE FELLOW NEXT DOOR STARTS OUT TO BREAK THE LONG-DISTANCE COUGHING RECORD - AND FINALLY YOU HIT A REAL TOWN WITH A REAL HOTEL AND REAL BEDS ON SATURDAY NIGHT

HERB'S WHERE SLEEP GET ACQUAINTED ONCE MORE - AND YOU MAKE ALL ARRANGEMENTS TO REST IN THE ARMS OF MORPHEUS TILL LATE SUNDAY MORNING,

SOMEBODY IS ALWAYS TAKING THE JOY OUT OF LIFE

SAY, CLERK, SEND THIS BIRD IN 436 A CARTON OF OLD GOLDS AND TELL HIM THERE AIN'T A COUGH 'N A CARLOAD

© 1928, P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760