Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not be published.

AUBREY BROWN - Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF:
F. D. MILLER - Managing Editor
C. M. ATT - Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT - Managing Editor
Z. V. ING - Sports Editor
V. A. MILTON - News Editor
P. B. VEALE - Society Editor
D. P. ANDERSON - Feature Editor
W. W. McCUTCHAN - Assistant Editor
L. BROWN - Assistant Editor
C. R. KE - Associate Editor
B. MORIARITY - Associate Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF:
L. A. M. - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
R. F. S. - Circulation Mgr.
H. B. JENNINGS - Subscription Mgr.
H. McLEA - Solicitor
G. D. EVERINGTON - Solicitor
A. CANNON - Solicitor
H. D. MAJORS - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB:
President - W. McDERMID
Vice-President - E. S. HEEFNER
Secretary-Treasurer - P. R. ALDERMAN
J. F. PRESTON
C. H. DUBOSE
W. C. RAGIN
R. GRAHAM
D. RUSK
W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
S. H. LONG
S. S. WILEY
J. P. McBRYDE
J. V. D. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1928

The Davidsonian Wants:
—everyone to contribute his part to the fund for band uniforms.
—to thank Robt. W. Graves, ’26, for his substantial contribution of new books to the library.
—to praise that fighting team to the skies for the never-say-die spirit exemplified against Carolina last Saturday.
—better entertainment provided when visitors are here than the recent Stunt Night performance proved to be, if it is to be representative.

“ABSOLUTION FOR DAVIDSON”

After an introductory combat with the Senior class leaders last spring regarding their gift insofar as the principle of buying athletes was brought into discussion, we have retreated from arguments of that nature. Recently, however, Ben Dixon MacNeill, writing in the Raleigh “News and Observer,” brought this question of influencing attendance of athletes at various institutions by means of “crude commercial considerations” into prominence.

The writer, in his column, speaks of football as “big business” and states clearly that he has no complaint whatever against the practice of hiring football players “except that there is not nearly enough of it done, or that it is done with so little discrimination.” Mr. MacNeill is of the opinion that the very best amusement obtainable should be provided for the spectators and if that may better be done by hiring a team, then hire one!

His point of criticism regards the hypocrisy which, he says, is practiced as undergraduates assail one institution for buying a star player and at the same time attempt to establish their own claim to having a team which receives no remuneration whatsoever.

“Personally,” writes Mr. MacNeill, “I am in favor of hiring more and better players, to the end that the show be improved and that the business prosper. But at the same time I think it proper, from a purely moral standpoint, that the undergraduates be taken into the confidence of the managers of this big business, to the end that they be not further required to stultify themselves in hypocrisy. It is bad for youth.

“While I am about this dissertation, being an unlettered and non-partisan neutral among the colleges, I wish to say a final word for Davidson College. I think the students there must be honest about their protests that they hire no players. I believe it would not be possible to hire young men to play as hard as the Davidson brethren play. It is among their traditions, and I think they stand in worthy awe of their traditions down there. But as for the rest of them, I devoutly wish they would extend their purchasing operations, and provide the customer with a better show for his money, and then be frank enough to admit commercialism.”

As long as Davidson continues to present fighting teams as those of past seasons for the entertainment of the public and as representatives of a loyal student body there will be more real pride and more satisfaction in having such an aggregation even though they may lose to teams representing larger and wealthier colleges than in producing teams which win one championship after another and are paid for their services.

WE DID FORGET TO MENTION AN INFIRMARY

In mentioning needs for Davidson in the way of equipment last week we were somewhat fearful of citing places where money might be well spent lest something be overlooked. And there was an omission. We are reminded that Davidson is in need of a new infirmary. The present arrangements are inadequate altogether both as regards the building itself and equipment. Perhaps someone will feel inclined to investigate this deficiency and offer a new building, fully equipped, in place of the present one. Well, there’s a new church, too. But we won't start this all over again.

BLAZERS FOR THE SENIORS AND UNIFORMS FOR THE BAND

Now that the seniors have their official distinctive garb for the year there really ought to be a way to designate the band, in order that there may be no confusion. Seriously though, as the movement is begun, led by Captain John W. Elkins, there should be a united response from the student body even as there is already from the faculty and the legion posts. With such an impetus as has been given at the very first there is little doubt but that all will contribute liberally and at once.

IT'S NOT DEAD

No, it is not dead, nor even seriously ill. In fact, Davidson’s traditional spirit and fight, with especial reference to football, is very much alive and kicking. Witness the Wildcat football club and Wildcat student body. If ever a team showed fight, if ever a student body supported a team, then that thing has been surpassed here of late on the Davidson campus. Every important game has been lost, there has been no glory of victory, but there has been no decline of spirit.

A favorite topic for campus conversation has been the old story of the days that used to be, of the times when victory was the habit of a Red and Black team, no matter who the opponent. Tales of how the boys used to back their team. Tales of how that team would play inspired football and scrap till the last whistle. And, usually, the ultimatum has been that the old spirit was lacking, the expected fight was missing, the students no longer took active interest in the team!

After watching a comparatively tiny Wildcat eleven fight its heart out against the massive battalions of V. M. I., N.C. State, Carolina, and at the same time, observing the reactions of the student body, we have decided that the spirit of Davidson is marching on as always. The team suffers when a successful play is run against it, but no more than the boys in the stands suffer. All for one, one for all. That is the feeling that has given Davidson the name of a fighting college, and that is the feeling which will carry her on to certain success. Until the last man has handled the ball at Durham on Thanksgiving Day, that team will fight on, and behind it will be six hundred yelling, hoping men. Off years are bound to come, but the spirit will remain.

Current Comment
By John Brown

Hotchpot
By Kendrick Pritchett

WANTON WILES
By Dave Anderson

A few days ago North Carolina authorities sent to Alabama and brought back a prisoner. He escaped fourteen years ago after having served one year on a twenty-year term for second degree murder. Meanwhile he has become the leading citizen of his new Alabama home, and has become highly respected and trusted. In fact, he sounds like a modern Jean Valjean.

It looks like we'll be able to sweeten our coffee quite cheaply next year. The price of raw sugar has dropped since January, 1927, from 5.9 cents to 1.91 cents per pound, which is the lowest price on record. Refined sugar, over the same period, has dropped from 6.36 to 5.10 cents. Cuba’s supply of sugar will amount to between 4 1/2 and 5 million tons, and it is probable that there will be huge Javanese production. All of which is going to be mighty hard on sugar producers.

It has been observed that the speed of ants varies so closely with the temperature that the temperature could be calculated to within one degree by timing the movements of the ants. They are very regular in all their affairs, although they are so small that it takes 140,000 of them to weigh a pound.

The Republican National Committee has collected $4,911,744.52 and disbursed $4,744,361.07 while the Democratic Committee has collected $4,088,933.09 and disbursed $4,008,023.68 according to reports of their treasurers filed with the clerk of the House of Representatives. Well, the Republicans seem to have gotten results with their larger amount expended.

The Keystone Aircraft Corporation has recently completed the largest passenger plane in the United States. It has three 525 horse-power motors and is capable of 155 miles per hour, and can carry a load of 7 1/2 tons. Its cabin includes a stateroom with sleeping compartment and seats for twenty passengers.

Speaking of aviation, a new form of cowl has been introduced for radial air-cooled motors. This new form cuts down air resistance, and increases efficiency so that a plane capable of 118 miles per hour can go 137 miles per hour. And it costs only twenty-five dollars if installed at the factory.

Aviation is stepping right along, as shown by the following: A number of railroads are planning to operate airplanes in conjunction with transcontinental express trains. A ship-to-shore service has been definitely planned by the French line. The American Railway Express Company has inaugurated transcontinental air package service. The Department of Agriculture is using this year four planes to apply insecticides to check the boll-weevil. With such strides as ithas been taking, who can say where it will be ten years from now? Rudolph Kircher, a German writer, in a book called “Fair Play,” dealing with England and the English people, gives this definition of fair play. “‘Fair Play’ is a great conception, for in these two words are summed up all that English education and ethics hold most dear... . ‘Fair Play’ governs the relations with one’s neighbors, especially in those things which put a man on his mettle, competition, war, rivalry, and love. ‘Fair Play’ means regard for one’s neighbor and seeing the man and fellow player in one’s opponent.” Whether this definition is correct matters little, but it says something that less than ten years after the close of the world war such a passage can be written by a German concerning the English.

Having a sweeping majority, we trust they will come clean. The New York Times reports that Mr. Hoover has had the experience of having a star, Hooveria, named after him. The Roman Emperors were not allowed to have this in life. Not until their death did they ascend to the stars. But the Viennese, grateful to Mr. Hoover for what he did for their relief after the war, have apotheosized him, placing him in the skies between Jupiter and Mars. “The Senate of Austria gave his name to a ‘planet’ discovered by one of their astronomers in 1920. It was the fortuity of finding that particular planet when even the professors in the university had to be fed in public kitchens and Dr. Pirquet was measuring children to determine their nutritional needs, that gave his name to that newly found wanderer of the skies. ‘Hoover’ was their friend in need, and it was natural that they should put him among the stars that they thanked for life itself.”

An American journal reports a movement in Turkey called Behaism, which is said to have originated in India and to be spreading rapidly westward. Behaism is neither a religion nor a secret society, though its tenets hold some similarity to those of the Free Masons. It extols virtue and love as the highest of human qualities, and it requires neither ceremonies, priests, nor preachers. The principles of Behaism are as follows: Humanity is a tree and human beings are the leaves and branches. Men and women are equal. Quarreling, anger, hatred, revenge, and superstition are prohibited. Behaists must submit themselves to the laws of the countries to which they belong. Falsehood, cheating, and divorce are deadly sins. Should a man and woman desire to part they must live under the same roof for nine months, and if at the end of that time no reconciliation has taken place they may resort to legal separation. Polygamy and infidelity are forbidden. The Behaists regard all men as brothers, and recognize no difference of religion; they are the enemies of all fanaticism. They regard Christ, Moses, Mohammed, and Buddha as prophets of one Creator. They insist on a lower and middle school education for all.

OPEN FORUM

Mr. Editor: Will you please publish the following editorial, from the New York World in the next issue of The Davidsonian? —T.S.

HOOVER AND SMITH

“The result is not what we wished it to be, but it is an indisputable result. Mr. Hoover is elected President of the United States by a clear and unmistakable majority of the American people. The World salutes the winner. It salutes the next President. It wishes him health, strength, and good fortune.

“To Governor Smith we say that he can look backward upon this campaign with a good conscience. He has fought an honest, clean, and candid battle for ideas, which will surely prevail. The odds against him were insuperable; his gallantry in face of them will long be remembered. The American people love a brave man, and among public men Al Smith is the bravest of our time. He has lost the election, but he retires with his flag flying. It has been a privilege to fight with him on such a field.”

WHY NOT A NEW FLAG?

Among the rules which govern the use of the American flag is one which states that when its days are done it shall be burned. Obviously, the rule has not been applied at Davidson. We do not know just who is responsible for supplying the local flagpole with a flag, whether it be college or War Department. But someone has failed. The tattered ensign has long waved, as the most prominent feature of the campus, upon a silvery pole which incidentally is the gift of some previous senior class.

To the Class of 1929: No one else seems to take an interest in the ravelling flag. Now here’s your opportunity to buy a gift which will cost much less and do far more good than proposed athletic scholarships, stone benches, etc. But it will be decomposed before you are ready to make a contribution. Oh, well, the sophomores won’t be bothered with giving excuses for leaving it up all night when it has decayed. —Vandermorgan.

AN UNWRITTEN PAGE OF HISTORY

Entrance of Brigham Young at 5 A.M. —Colgate Banter.

THE BULL PEN

(Editor’s Note: This column of Davidson’s Weakly Newspaper has every reason in the world for being even weaker than usual. In fact, it should be positively sick—for at the time of writing, it is the morning after several nights before and not long after that second half of the Davidson-Carolina game.)

Speaking of that second half, reminds us of Byron’s little ditty that runs something like this: “For most men (till by losing rendered sager) Will back their own opinions with a wager.” Ladies and gentlemen (and others who may read this column), we are much more “sager” than we once were. Who ain’t? For Mr. Byron had mankind pretty well analyzed after all...

If that game had ended at the half, there wouldn’t be any “Bull Pen” this week. Mr. Editor-in-Chief could leave the space blank or fill it with editorials (same thing, only different) or find some other aspiring columnist and seduce him to be this week’s Matador (an old Spanish word, meaning “killer;” killer of time, the bull or what have you).

Talking about that Carolina game, all the papers said Carolina was going to start their second team. Now we don’t know enough about Carolina’s men to distinguish between the first team and the second, but, just off-hand, we would have said that the team that started looked a lot like their “All-American.” Maybe it was just by comparison.

They tell us that the Freshman stunt last Saturday night had quite a big cut out, for various reasons. Say, if the Davidsonian censor had done the work on that Stunt Night performance there wouldn’t have been anything to it but the two Glee Club chorus selections. He would have even cut out that selection from Schubert's Serenade—it has a couple of notes used in “Sweet Adeline”—and that—well!

A reward of 2c will be paid for the arrest and conviction of anyone reading this column more than twice a semester. Reading of editorials in Davidson’s Greatest Newspaper (The Davidsonian Covers Davidson like the Mud) is strictly prohibited by the Editor himself.

PREPARATION OF A CONTRIBUTION

1. Type it carefully on plain, white, standard size paper.
2. Re-read for errors, being sure you did not omit the point of your joke.
3. Place in envelope addressed, care Feature Editor, Davidsonian.
4. Seal it and drop it in the post office slot marked “Domestic,” “Foreign,” “Air Mail” or “Local.” This saves us lots of time.

Many thanks to Q. E. D. for contribution. Or, better still, throw it in the waste-basket—Sorry we can’t print it, but this isn’t that kind of a column, don't you know!

A prominent traffic expert says that what is making our highways dangerous is the heavy liquor traffic.

VIEWS AND REVIEWS By Chatham Clark

Recently we read that most nondescript book, “All Kneeling,” by Anne Parish. In it she has given a light, smooth-reading life of Christabel Cain, a most patronizing authoress, too weak to make a choice between her attentive husband and her love for writing. This book contains some beautiful phrases that are offset by exaggerated description. If the author had continued her story for a few more pages, probably one would be able to decide just what opinion to adopt in regard to the novel sponsored by “The Literary Guild” or “The Book of the Month Club.” At any rate we can assure you that either of the two has put out better novels.

Eugene O’Neill’s latest play, “Strange Interlude” has just arrived in the library. This play, however, has enjoyed a year’s success on Broadway and seems to be growing in popularity; it is by no means stale literature. One of the novel features in this masterpiece is the fact that the characters speak their thoughts whether complimentary or otherwise. The language employed is frank, to say the least, and sometimes seems indelicate, but still the good somewhat compensates for the bad. If you don’t believe it’s popular just try to find it in the library.

The Forbidden Woman, by Frances Mocatta: Unfortunately this book has not been purchased for the library. It is the story of Annette Duval, who set out to conquer a world denied her. “Seven-eighths white, educated white, brought up with white folks—and damned for a negro.” But this is not alone the story of Annette. It is of Harlem and of Sandyville, Ga.; of Southern aristocracy, British nobility, and an age-old problem. Three hundred interesting pages and well worth your reading.

The Green Murder Case, by Van Dine, is one of the popular new books in the library; also Bambi by Salten is another. The latter is a story of animal life, and it is said that it will rank as one of the child’s classics in years to come.

Guess you read Deluge when it came out the first of the past summer? If you didn’t we'll save you that trouble. It is the most impossible of books, with the exception of “Alice in Wonderland.”