THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1928

Fayetteville Alumni In Annual Meeting Tonight
Ernest Milton Will Attend Gathering at Prince Charles Hotel

Davidson alumni residing in Fayetteville and Cumberland County will gather at the Prince Charles Hotel, at Fayetteville, tonight for a dinner meeting, the first meeting of the alumni of that section since December, 1926. Arrangements for the meeting have been made under the direction of T. W. Rankin, ’09, president of the Fayetteville Alumni Association.

Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, has been invited to attend the meeting as honor guest of the Fayetteville alumni. He will address the association on matters pertaining to alumni work and plans for expansion of this phase of activity by the college. His address at Fayetteville will bring to a close his program for alumni meetings in North Carolina until after the conclusion of an extensive week’s tour of Virginia, Maryland, District of Columbia, Pennsylvania, and New York.

Officers of the Fayetteville Association are: T. W. Rankin, '09, president; Dr. J. A. Shaw, '19, vice-president; and W. B. Jennings, '26, secretary-treasurer.

“Well, little woman,” said the proud husband returning from his fishing trip, “what do you think of this bunch for a catch?”
“You can’t fool me,” she answered; “Mrs. Smith saw you at the fish market.”
“Why, yes; you see I caught so many I had to sell some of them.”—Pathfinder.

Personal

Friends of Prof. F. P. Hall, Sr., ’87, and F. P. Hall, ’20, will regret to learn of the death of their wife and mother, Mrs. Minnie Thompson Hall, which occurred at their home in Belmont last Saturday.

J. O. Cobb, '12, of Durham, N. C., has been elected president of the Chamber of Commerce of that city.

B. W. Romefelt, ’21, of Asheville, recently appeared as a speaker before the Clean Life Club of the Y. M. C. A. of that city.

An interesting and informative feature article on the religions of Japan, written by R. E. McAlpine, '27, appeared in last Sunday’s issue of The Winston-Salem Journal.

Geo. F. Harper, ’86, is vice-president of the Bank of Lenoir; vice-president of the Nelson Cotton Mill; vice-president of the Hudson Cotton Mill; president of the Whitnell Cotton Mill; partner in the Harper Furniture Company, manufacturers; chairman of the Caldwell County Road Commission, and director in several other corporations.

Maxey H. Carr, ‘11, is secretary, treasurer and general manager of the City Service Company, Inc., El Paso, Tex.

John D. Baker, Jr., '25, is vice-president of the Baker & Holmes Company, and is manager of the branch in Tampa, Fla.

College Clothes

NEW FOR SPRING---Suits tailored to meet the College man’s taste --- designed by College men--- bought by College men --- for college. When in Charlotte we ask that you see these Suits. They’ll be the kind you like and priced at unusually low prices.

BELK BROTHERS CO.
Where College Men Trade

Canvas Bags for $8.50. We offer a set of four Clubs and restring Tennis Racquets.
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

A SPRINKLER HEAD will discharge over 1,000 gallons of water in 30 minutes, or about 35 gallons in 60 seconds. No merchant or manufacturer can afford to be without our SPRINKLER LEAKAGE POLICY. The cost is a trifle compared with the protection.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
McALISTER CARSON (’13) Mgr.

Two Other Cities Added To Northern Alumni Tour
Staunton, Va., and Philadelphia Will be Included

The alumni secretaries have about completed all their plans for a Northern tour, which has been augmented since the first announcement was made of the proposed trip, by the inclusion of Staunton, Va., and Philadelphia, Pa., in addition to the meetings.at Richmond, Va., Washington, D.C., Baltimore, Md., and New York. Alumni in Staunton learned of the plans of the local office and wrote in requesting a meeting, stating that the alumni would like to meet together, whether an organization resulted or not. The gathering in Philadelphia will be along the same lines, since many of the alumni in that city are attending medical schools, but it was decided to call them together and discuss Davidson with them. Messrs. Branch and Milton, the secretaries, will both attend the alumni meeting in Richmond, Va., and while Mr. Branch is present at a meeting in Staunton, Va., on Thursday, March 8th, Mr. Milton will be holding one simultaneously in Washington. Mr. Branch will return to Davidson from Staunton, while Mr. Milton will complete the tour of six gatherings. These six meetings will reach over 150 alumni of Davidson, and letters which have been received at the alumni office indicate that the men in these various cities are interested in local organizations and will attend in large numbers. The New York group is the only one which is organized at the present time.

Recent Works Are Added To Library

The Library has added quite a number of books in this school year, and just recently a collection of books of fiction, plays, and other novels have been added according to Miss Shaw. A number of books chosen, the most important of which are professional books on architecture. New books by well-known authors have been secured. “The Grandmothers” by Sheila Kaye-Smith is one of the latest books of one of England's most gifted authors. This novel won the Harper prize in 1927-1928. “Out of the Ruins,” by Phillip Gibbs, is another interesting novel. Some of the fiction are: “Iron and Smoke,” by Glenway Wescott. Two plays, “The Field God” and “In Abraham’s Bosom,” by Paul Green, deal with the life of the negro in South Carolina and the rise of the chief player to the leadership of his race. Andre Siegfried in his new book, “America Comes of Age,” portrays America as the Frenchman sees her. The author reviews in turn fundamentalism, the negro problem, immigration, the Ku Klux Klan, and numerous topics of present-day discussion. Thomas E. Tallmadge gives a dramatic story of architecture in his book, “The Story of Architecture in America.” Two books by Thomas Hardy are “Two on a Tower” and “The Woodlanders.” “The Heart of Thoreau’s Journals” by Odell Shepard has also been added.

“You are a traveler, sir,” said a passenger in a local train, “and perhaps you are familiar with Mulwich?”

“Yes,” replied the other passenger, “I call there on every trip.”

“Glad to hear it. I’ve never been there. Which hotel would you advise me to stop at?”

“The Majestic.”

“Do you always go there?”

“No, I’ve never stopped there, but I've been to all the others.”—Tit-Bits.

GENERAL ELECTRIC

Today, the electric motors of an American battleship have the energy of a million men, and drive thousands of tons of steel through the water at amazing speed. Man is more than a source of power in civilized countries. Electricity has made him master of power. In coming years, the measure of your success will depend largely on your ability to make electricity work for you. Competition everywhere grows keener, and electricity cuts costs and does work better wherever it is applied. In industry, transportation, the professions, the arts, and in the home, you will find General Electric equipment helping men and women towards better economies and greater accomplishments.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.