November 1, 1928. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

A SOCIETY

Mrs. Martin Hostess

On last Friday evening at 7:30 o'clock Mrs. W. J. Martin entertained with a formal dinner party at her home. She was assisted by her daughter, Miss Jean Martin. A six-course dinner was served in the dining room, attractively decorated. Those present were: Miss Nancy Gray, Charlotte; Miss Mildred Riddle, Morganton; Miss Mary Speir, Charlotte; Miss Letitia Currie; Dr. W. P. Cumming, Prof. H. T. Lilly, and Prof. A. C. Gorr, of the Davidson faculty; Mr. Morgan Speir, Charlotte; Mr. Foil, Concord.

New Pledges

The following social fraternities announce pledges: Delta Theta Chi, W. D. Hawkins, Greensboro, N. C.; Pyramid, C. G. Pepper, Hamlet; R. W. Lackman, Birmingham, Ala.; Pi Kappa Phi, D. C. Hunter, Clio, S. C.

Eta Sigma Phi Entertains Winthrop Visitors

The members of the Davidson chapter of the Eta Sigma Phi honorary classical fraternity were hosts to three Winthrop visitors on Tuesday of last week when the local chapter, known as the Classical Club, was installed as a chapter of the fraternity. Miss Ethel Owen and Miss Dorothy Gilreath, officers of the Alpha chapter of Eta Sigma Phi at Winthrop College, and Dr. Donnis Martin, head of the Latin and Greek department at Winthrop, presided at the initiation ceremonies. The installation was characterized by solemnity and dignity.

Dr. and Mrs. Moffett Celebrate Wedding Anniversary

Dr. and Mrs. H. M. Moffett are spending part of this week in Farmville, Va., where they will celebrate their wedding anniversary.

Miss Gene Martin in Wedding

On Monday of this week at high noon Miss Gene Martin was present at the wedding of Miss Dorothy Johnson, of Salisbury, and Mr. Frank Smith, High Point. Miss Martin attended the bride as honorary bridesmaid.

Thelemite Book Club Meets

The Thelemite Book Club met with Prof. J. L. Douglass on last Friday evening. Professor Erwin spoke on “The Influence of the Modern Novel.”

Miss Maude Vinson Away

Miss Maude Vinson spent the weekend with friends in Richmond, Va.

Publications Hosts

Beginning with this afternoon, the staff of The Davidsonian will be host to the annual meeting of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association. A number of social functions have been planned for the guests who are representatives of different college papers of the state. The convention will be formally opened tonight with a banquet at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel, sponsored by the Charlotte Engraving Co. Following will be a theater party. On Friday there will be a luncheon at the Myers Park Country Club. On Friday night the delegates will be guests at a dinner and dance at the Hotel Charlotte, concluding with a luncheon Saturday noon.

Northern Boys Feed

Last Monday evening the Delta Club held a reception in honor of the men from the Northern States, and others. This club is composed of members from the Southern States, and so called because the locations of the home towns of the charter members form the Greek letter Delta. Those attending the reception were: Bill Phifer, president of the club; A. L. DeCamp, vice-president; Alired Jackson, secretary-treasurer; Sob Sutliff, Andrew Bird, H. DuBose, and C. W. DuBose. The guests of honor were: D. Martin, H. H. Banks, J. T. Bradshaw, Bill Bradshaw, and S. W. DuBose.

Neophytes Initiated

Seven new members were initiated into Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, Tuesday night. Following the ritual and initiation the group went into a social hour in honor of the neophytes. Initiates were: W. B. McQueen, J. R. Covington, P. B. Fry, J. R. Graham, D. P. Anderson, V. A. Milton, and J. L. Ely.

FIRST APPEARANCE OF REPORTS MADE

The appearance of the first monthly reports during the past week brought to a close a season of varied expectation and dread within the school, bringing satisfaction to some students, and demonstrating to those less studiously inclined a need for greater concentration on their subjects. Pointing out as it does the general trend of the individual, the chief value of this first card lies in its capacity as a check upon the work of the students. The freshmen may gain especial benefit from it in this way. Reports were mailed not only to every man at college, but also to the parents or guardian of each one. Low grades received this time will act as an incentive rather than as a discouragement. The next reports are due to be mailed in about five weeks, and will offer a splendid chance for students who have not quite attained, as yet, the desired mark, to vindicate themselves.

Wife of Dr. Vowles Recovering Speedily

Davidsonians will be glad to know that Mrs. Guy P. Vowles, who has been convalescing in Statesville for two weeks, will return to her home here Sunday or Monday. Mrs. Vowles is the wife of Dr. Guy P. Vowles, head of the department of German in the college. She is well known to the members of the student body through her singing in the church choir and social contact through entertainment in her home, and her absence has been keenly felt by the Davidson students. It is very doubtful if Mrs. Vowles will be singing before at least a month, as she plans to fully regain her strength before she takes up her work again.

Faculty Directory Omitted in Last Issue by Error

Cullum, Prof. E. J.—Phone 2-J; office, Eu Hall; residence, Concord St.
Lilly, Prof. H. T.—Phone 108; office, 217 Chambers; residence, N. Main St.; home of Dr. J. W. McConnell.
Lingle, Prof. T. W.—Phone 125; office, 217 Chambers; residence, Concord Road (opposite Stadium Road).
Lyon, Dr. S. C.—No phone; office, Temporary Laboratory; residence, N. Main St.
McConnell, Prof. J. M.—Phone 6; office, 204 Chambers; residence, N. Main St. (second house beyond library).
McConnell, Dr. J. W.—Phone 123; office, Infirmary; residence, South St. (first house beyond theater).
Martin, Dr. W. J.—Phone 94; office, Chambers; residence, N. Main St. (first house beyond library).
Otto, Capt. J. A.—Phone 167; office, Armory; residence, South St. (second house beyond theater).
Scott, Col. W. R.—Phone —; office, Armory; residence, N. Main.

Profs Defeated in Match By Students

On Thursday afternoon, October 25, the Davidson golf team played a team composed of several faculty members and won by a score of 21 to 5. The faculty team was composed of the following professors and faculty members: Watts, who played number one; Moffett, number two; Brown, number three; Blythe, number four; Fulcher, number five; and Mebane, number six. The Davidson golf team was represented by Mills, number one; Pepper, number two; Hunt, number three; Hutaff, number four; Hart, number five; and Sutliff, number six. There were three points to a foursome, and foursomes were played in nine matches. Mills and Pepper won their matches by nine points; Brown and Blythe won theirs with a score of 5 to 4. Hart and Sutliff won their match by eight points, one point being halved. Twosomes were played in the foursomes and regular matches were played at the same time. Mills won his match in the twosome by three points, Pepper by three points, Hutaff won with a score of 2 to 1, Blythe won by three points, Hart by two points, and Sutliff won by three points. The low score for the whole match was 78, made by Mills. These matches with the faculty will probably be played oftener in the future than they have been in the past, according to Mills, the captain and manager.

Work on Year Book Progressing Slowly

Efforts have recently been made by the Quips and Cranks staff to secure pictures of every man in the student body, but as yet only three hundred and seventy-five pictures have been taken. It is probable that the photographs taken thus far will be returned some time during the latter part of February. The biggest problem now is that of the senior write-ups; only ten of these articles having been handed in to date. The senior section comprises one-fourth of the entire annual and the editor has urged that the seniors co-operate in handing in this work as soon as possible, in order that work might be finished before the Christmas holidays. The Athletic Association has declared itself unwilling to pay for sponsors of the athletic teams, probably four other people will be chosen by the sponsors in this way, on the staff. More than the usual amount of work is being done by the students of Davidson this year, instead of printing companies in Charlotte, who have been employed for that kind of work for the past two or three years.

Students’ Nominee Throws Big Scare

The recent formation of a club to promote political interests here on the campus, and the general controversy that now prevails, have served to unearth interesting facts concerning a political situation that existed here in Davidson a number of years ago, in which Davidson students played an important role. As the story goes, the little village of theusual election for mayor, and all was going well. Davidson was in the midst of a number of voters decided to run a new office. For a number of years, his decision to run again was gladly accepted, but when the new candidate, a man of much prominence, announced his intention to run, the situation became very interesting. The incumbent mayor had held office for several years, and this cherished candidate made his home in the town. However, a small number of voters assembled and placed their candidate before the people. It was revealed that the majority of voters were in favor of the new candidate, and everything pointed to his election.

The village was very disturbed. On the night before the election, a big rally was scheduled, and notifications were posted that the candidate would address the public on behalf of his campaign. The students of the college, who had registered and voted in the town elections for several years, made fun of this move. However, the situation was serious; the citizens were concerned, and a big landslide was apparent. The candidate, half from fear of losing his personal liberty, beat it to the tall timber and remained there for several days. The election ran off smoothly the next day, but the people of the town had witnessed a real threat. An investigation was completed, which pointed out that the students had no lawful right to vote here, as this was not their residence.

HOOVER IS WINNER
(Continued from Page 1)

Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware. The largest vote for him was in Connecticut, where the vote ran nine to one. Smith made his best showing in New York, where the vote ran nine to five for Hoover. The Eastern States gave Hoover a three to one majority. In the Southern States, Smith carried every state except West Virginia, Kentucky, Oklahoma, and the District of Columbia. Hoover won only three states in the South, with Smith's majority being a comfortable one in every other state he carried, including Texas and Louisiana, which went over to his standards by four to one.

Of all votes cast in the 16 Southern States, Smith led by a majority of seven to five. The heaviest vote was cast in Virginia, and the lightest vote in Arkansas. Of the Central States, Hoover carried every one of them. The West-Central States (North Dakota, South Dakota, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, and Kansas) all went Republican by a total vote of three to one. Hoover carried every Western State (Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico, Washington, Oregon, and California). Taking the total of all votes cast in this section, he led three to one. In Colorado, the Democrats were strongest, three to two, and in Montana the weakest, 39 to one. Of all the states in the Union, Montana was the strongest for the G.O.P. forces. Virginia cast the greatest number of individual votes for Smith, and Pennsylvania the most votes for Hoover. The largest percentage in any one college was 20 to one for Smith at Mount St. Mary’s College, Emmitsburg, Maryland. The largest percentage for Hoover in any one college was 18 to one at Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois. Will Rogers obtained one-half of one percent of the total student vote.

The following was received from St. John’s Collegiate, Annapolis, Maryland: “Hoover 128, Smith 120, Texas Guinan 2, students dry and faculty all met.” Hoover was authorized the following exclusive statement to College Humor and the college world, preferring it to be put in the third person:

“Back in the late ‘eighties when the Republican nominee for President was an office boy for a land company in Salem, Oregon, a mining engineer sauntered into the office and captured Bert Hoover's imagination with talk of that profession. He decided to go to college and become a mining engineer. In the fall of 1891, Bert Hoover became a freshman in the first class at Stanford. He had one hundred dollars as his capital and a big task on his hands to find a means of supporting himself and keeping up with his studies. The first job that came to hand was in the office of the registrar, handling the newly arrived students. Then he was a local agent for San Francisco papers, which helped out the condition of the exchequer. Next, he discovered that there was an opportunity for a laundry agency at the university, and he entered into an arrangement with the Laundry at San Jose. This grew to goodly proportions with agents in the fraternity houses.

During his second year, he organized Red Star and eventually named sub-agents and managed a co-operative student boarding house, along with other things. Returning for his junior year after a second summer with a geological survey of Arkansas, he brought forth a plan for control of activities by a student body. This was put through, and he became treasurer of the student board without salary. He also managed a lecture and concert course. Between his junior and senior years, he spent another summer with the survey. It was while he was a senior that he met Miss Lou Henry, also a geology student, whom he later married. In 1895, he worked as a mine laborer for a brief time and then set out for San Francisco to link his fortunes with those of Louis Janin, a leading mining engineer of the West, from which point his career began.”

The following letter was received from Smith: “I am glad to comply with the request of College Humor for a short message. It is this: Humor is the balance wheel which steers us in the direction of sanity. Without it, man loses his sense of proportion, and that means his capacity to appraise human values. With it, he sees the other fellow’s point of view, a quality especially important with public men. A sense of humor is consistent with earnestness of purpose. It conserves our vision without making us visionary. I want my message to appeal to youth. That to me is a test of whether the future is with me and also whether my arteries have hardened. Keep humorous and don't be cynical. Be funny but don't have that coat of varnish which some folks call sophistication. In this spirit, I shall conduct my campaign.”

Receiving Direct Receptions of Game Experimented

Last Saturday, the Wake Forest-Davidson game at Charlotte was received in the Physics laboratory with fair success. This was an entirely experimental reception by the Physics department to see if the games played off the hill could be received directly from the field. “Red” Hayes was sending the play-by-play account of the game over 4PAB, a portable outfit belonging to the Charlotte Radio Club. Sid McCarty received the game through 4DB, a stationary set belonging to the college. The reception proved a great success and was coming in fine until the last quarter when the batteries at the Charlotte end burnt out, making it impossible to send the remainder of the game. The Physics Department hopes to secure a 50-watt tube within the next few days, which will enable them to receive messages much easier. The remainder of the football games played in the state will be received regardless of this tube, provided nothing interferes. This last game proved that the game can be received here at the college with fair success.

Duckling: “Stop. It’s dangerous to attack,” Mrs. Hen: “But I'm going to lay a carpet.”

Bring Out Your Fall Clothes

Bring them to us and get them in shape to wear. We can alter, repair, and make them look like new, according to the latest styles of fashion. Bring us your work and be convinced.

A. GHERSKOV, THE TAILOR
Clothes remodeled to fit the man.

Fill the Skies with Commerce

Ten years ago, there were 218 miles of air mail routes with two station stops; today, a network of sky roads bridges the country from the Atlantic to the Pacific and from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico. The air map of America is now in the making. Can you imagine this growth without electricity—without illuminated airports—without trunk lines studded with electric beacons? A majority of the beacon lights used in airport and airway illumination have been designed and manufactured by the General Electric Company, whose specialists have the benefit of a generation's experience in the solution of lighting problems. Men of vision are building for increasing traffic of the air. Soon, the skies will be filled with commerce. Just as electricity is helping to conquer the air, the land, and the sea today, so tomorrow it will lead to greater accomplishments in aviation and in every human activity.

GENERAL ELECTRIC