Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN October 4, 1928.

ALUMNI

Eight Davidson College Alumni Died This Summer or During Fall Months

Disease, Operation and Injury Cause Death of Several Prominent Alumni

OLDEST ALUMNI LISTED

Rev. I. Condor, of McGaheysville, Va., Was Almost Ninety-Six Years Old When He Died on August 31

Eight Davidson College alumni have died since the last 1927-1928 edition of The Davidsonian went to press last May, according
to the records of the alumni office. Among them were some of the most prominent alumni of this institution. Of
particular note was the death of Rev. I. Condor, ‘60, the oldest living alumnus of the college in point of
age.

The name, class, date, and home at the time of the death of Davidson men are:

Rev. I. Condor, ‘60, August 31, at McGaheysville, Va.; Jesse Carter, '71, June 17, at Aberdeen, N.C.; Col. Alex D.
Pitts, '72, June 4, at Selma, Ala.; Dr. J. W. Summers, ‘81, June 18, at Miami, Fla.; Dr. Charles L.
Summers, '86, July 15, at Baltimore, Md.; Dr. A. A. McGeachy, ’01, September 24, at Charlotte, N.C.; Dr. James D.
McDowell, ’04, June 3 at York, S.C.; and Dr. Joseph H. Caldwell, '12, August 17, at Charlotte, N.C.

With the exception of Col. Pitts, about whom the alumni office has not obtained information, the following are brief accounts
of the lives of each man, as gleaned from accounts in newspapers:

REV. I. CONDOR, ’60

He was born in North Carolina, October 17, 1832; entered Davidson College in 1856; in the fall of 1857 he
entered North Carolina College where he remained until May, 1861, the institution being closed because of the War Between the
States. He read theology and was ordained as a Lutheran minister; served in the Confederate forces; was assistant pastor of
several churches in Cabarrus County, N.C., for six months, and was in Davidson County, N.C., for four years as pastor.
Rev. Mr. Condor then went to Augusta County, Va., where he served in the dual capacity of teacher and minister;
from there he went to Rockingham County, Va., for a while and then moved to McGaheysville, where he resided until
his death. The deceased was a victim of pneumonia, which developed after the aged minister's side and chest were bruised
in a fall on August 23. He was active until he was injured.

JESSE CARTER, ’71

Mr. Carter was born January 29, 1848, in Person County, N.C.; he studied at a Hillsboro, N.C., school, Bingham Military
Academy, and entered Davidson College in 1868. After leaving Davidson he located at Winston-Salem, later moving to Madison, where he
owned and operated a drug store, furniture store, and general merchandise stores. In 1898 he moved to Carthage, operating a
drugstore, later establishing similar concerns at Sanford, Biscoe, Candor, Mt. Gilead, and Aberdeen. He operated the pharmacy at Aberdeen until
his death. He was described as “one of the outstanding business and religious leaders in the sandhills.”

DR. J. W. SUMMERS, ’81

Dr. Summers was born in 1860; entered Davidson from Scotland Neck, N.C., in 1878, graduating in 1881. He taught in
Arkansas for one year after graduation, decided to study law and practiced that profession in Davidson. He later went into
medicine and was a physician in Charlotte before he went to Asheville to make his home. Dr. Summers lived in
Asheville 20 years. He had not practiced his profession for several years due to ill health.

DR. C. L. SUMMERS, ’86

He was born at Statesville in 1864; early education was received at private school and Bingham Military Academy. He entered
Davidson College, leaving here to study medicine at the University of Maryland, where he obtained his degree in 1887; graduate
work was done at Johns Hopkins Medical School, University of Berlin, and University of Vienna, always specializing in children’s diseases.
Dr. Summers was on the Children’s Hospital staff at University of Vienna, the largest of its kind in the world—in
1920 a tablet was placed on the walls of the institution, naming those who had done most for the children
of Austria; and Dr. Summers and Herbert Hoover were the only Americans listed. In 1918 he was appointed head of
the department of pediatrics at the University Hospital in Baltimore, and during 10 years’ time treated 120,000 babies free of
charge. Death resulted from a major operation.

DR. A. A. McGEACHY, '91

Dr. McGeachy was born March 3, 1869 at Laurinburg; was educated in public schools and entered Davidson College in 1887
when only 18 years of age; graduated in 1891 with high awards, and entered Union Theological Seminary, finishing in 1893.
He was licensed to preach and served in Robeson County a short time. From there he went to Pleasant Hill,
Mo., in 1894, serving one year and then accepting a pastorate at Fulton, Mo., where he remained until 1903. He
was called to Sherman, Texas, and filled the pulpit in that city until he returned in 1908 to the state
of his birth, becoming pastor of Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. Doctor of Divinity degree was conferred upon him by
Austin College when he was in Texas. He took a prominent part in state welfare work, at the time of
his death was president of the Queens College board of trustees, and on the board of Davidson College, General Assembly,
and Presbyterian Foundation. His activities extended far beyond the regular pastorate duties.

DR. JAMES D. McDOWELL, ’94

He was born in 1873, received his academic education at Davidson College, graduating in 1894. He obtained his medical training
at Bellevue, N.Y., graduating in 1897. Dr. McDowell located in New York the same year and remained there until a
few years ago. During the World War he entered the army in 1918, serving with the rank of major at
a big government hospital at Oteen, N.C. When he was discharged in 1920 he returned to York, S.C., where he
remained until death. He was described as an “able diagnostician and general practitioner.”

DR. JOSEPH H. CALDWELL, '12

Dr. Caldwell was born in 1890, entered Davidson College from Winnsboro, S.C., graduating here in 1912. He received his medical
degree from the University of Virginia, and immediately began to practice in Charlotte.

NINETEEN DAVIDSON MEN IN N.C. ARE IN LATEST ‘WHO’S WHO’

Davidson Leads With Six, Followed by Charlotte—Other State Lists to be Examined Later

The names of 19 Davidson College alumni appear in the North Carolina list of the 1928 edition of “Who’s Who
in America,” which has recently been distributed. The cities of Asheville, Burlington, Chapel Hill, Charlotte, Davidson, Greensboro, High Point, Red
Springs, Salisbury, and Winston-Salem are represented, Davidson leading with six alumni, while Charlotte contained four, one of whom died last
week.

According to the record those listed were Col. S. R. McKee, ’88, of Asheville; L. S. Holt, ’71, of Burlington;
Dr. M. C. S. Noble, ’79, of Chapel Hill; Dr. A. G. Brenizer, '82; Dr. J. P. Matheson, ’99; the
late Dr. A. A. McGeachy, ‘01, and Dr. W. S. Rankin, ‘01, all of Charlotte; Dr. P. W. Lingle, ’03;
Dr. J. M. McConnell, ’99; Dr. J. W. McConnell, ’02; Dr. W. J. Martin, '88; Dr. C. M. Richards, ’92;
Dr. M. E. Sentelle, ’04, all of Davidson; Judge James E. Boyd, '66, of Greensboro; Dr. J. T. Burrus, 1900,
of High Point; Dr. C. G. Vardell, '88, of Red Springs; J. F. Hurley, ’93, of Salisbury; Col. F. H.
Fries, '74, and S. Clay Williams, ’05, of Winston-Salem.

Besides the six alumni listed above who are connected with the college, other faculty members in “Who’s Who” are Dr.
F. B. Arbuckle; Dr. Fraser Hood and Prof. Scott Lyon. The alumni secretary said that he expected to compile a
complete roster of all alumni who have thus been recognized for their attainments in the particular fields in which they
are working.

ALUMNI BODY AT GREENVILLE MAPS OUT FINE PROGRAM

Motion Passed to Establish Association Scholarship for Needy Student

EIGHTEEN ATTEND MEETING

Gathering Was in Form of Banquet-Meeting at Woodside Grill Last Friday—Alumni Very Enthusiastic

The Greenville (S.C.) Alumni Association of Davidson College, meeting in semi-annual session in that city Friday, September 28, passed a
motion to establish a scholarship for a needy student seeking entrance to Davidson College, listened to an informal talk by
Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, and worked up considerable enthusiasm for the football game between Clemson College and the Wildcats the
following day.

Eighteen men living in Greenville and the immediate section attended the banquet-meeting, which was held at the Woodside Grill at
7:30 o'clock. In the absence of the president from the city, Mr. J. I. Smith, ’24, had made preliminary arrangements.
Mr. F. K. Spratt, '04, president, was at the meeting and presided.

Mr. H. T. Mills, '06, stated that he wanted the Greenville association to assume some particular task and made the
motion to establish a scholarship, starting it with anAppreciable sum. The motion was passed and the president was authorized to
appoint a committee to map out plans for obtaining this fund, and to suggest the best possible means of investing
it. This was the second gathering of the Greenville alumni, the association being organized last December with Mr. Spratt as
president, Mr. Smith, vice-president, and Rev. E. P. Davis, D.D., secretary-treasurer. Alumni attending were Dr. W. D. Simpson, '98; James
A. Winn, 1900; Frank K. Spratt, '04; H. T. Mills, '06; Fred W. Graham, '09; Dr. DeWitt Kluttz, '11; M.
G. Boswell, '15; Belton R. O'Neal, '15; H. W. Ormand, '16; R. T. Osteen, '16; J. M. Black, '18; Hugh
Aiken, '18; John L. Smith, '27; James W. Curdts, '25; J. F. Barron, '26; Mason L. Carroll, Jr., '27; Henry
B. Simpson, '29, all of Greenville, and Joe D. Welborn, '28, of Pelzer, S. C.

"The centipede was happy quite
Until the toad, in fun,
Said, 'Pray which leg comes after which
When you begin to run?'
This wrought his mind to such a pitch
He lay distracted in a ditch,
Uncertain how to run."

Hungary, Oct. 3—(IP)—Protests on the part of middle-class Hungarians who desire to send their children to college have caused the
Hungarian government to begin to retreat from its policy of reducing the college enrollment by 30 percent this year. Following
the criticism of his plan to cut down the number of new students, on the ground that Hungary already had
too many "intellectuals" out of work, Count Kuna Klebelsburg, Minister of Education, is now reported to have doubled the number
to be admitted to the Law School of the University of Budapest. Negotiations are under way, also, for increasing the
number of general students, regardless of the Klebelsburg "reduction" edict of last July.

Budapest,

MANY MARRIAGES

During the past summer the alumni secretary prepared a list of Davidson College alumni marriages which had occurred during the
past year, the total being 92. Other alumni in distant points were perhaps married, papers from sections outside of North
Carolina are not received in the Office and no notices were sent to Davidson. A number of these marriages were
solemnized during the summer months or early fall, and no mention of them has yet been made in The Davidsonian.
It would be impossible to devote a paragraph or two to each one because of limited space, and readers will
have to be content with the brief record that is given of each one below; with the addresses in the
alumni office:

L. L. Deck, '26, to Miss Rosalie Wooten. Box 12, College Park, Ga.
Rev. J. M. Carr, '25, to Miss Edyth Mae Swineford. Berryville, Va.
P. F. Jones, '27, to Miss Betty Ann Boyd. 805 Seventh Ave., N., St. Petersburg, Fla.
R. F. Davidson, '24, to Miss Eva Carlton, 106 E. Broadway, Louisville.
R. G. White, '25, to Miss Pearl Carter. 1270 Willow Ave., Louisville, Ky.
G. M. Eddington, '26, to Miss Catherine Page. Franklin, Tenn.
Hansell Jennings, '28, to Miss Maude Lee Thornton, Thomasville, Ga.
S. A. Alford, '26, to Miss Emily Couch. Chipley, Fla.
E. A. West, '24, to Miss Virginia Carter. Hemp, N. C.
E. P. Nisbet, '17, to Miss Mary McClure. 2010 Eighth St., Charlotte, N. C.
W. T. Spencer, '26, to Miss Ernestine Livingston. Gastonia, N. C.
A. S. Farnsworth, '27, to Miss Winnie Craver, 115 Lasoya St., San Antonio, Texas.
M. D. Field, '24, to Miss Mary Bunn. Monroe, N. C.
A. S. Robinson, '26, to Miss Mary Emma Henry. Gastonia, N. C.
R. W. Walker, III, '25, to Miss Lelia Ada Faulkner, Salisbury, N. C.
James P. Hendrix, '25, to Miss Mildred Little, 3611 Locust Ave., Philadelphia, Pa.
Rev. E. H. Bradley, '23, to Miss Agnes Blake. Roanoke Rapids, N. C.
J. W. Long, '21, to Miss Edna Plumbee. Uniontown, Ala.
John Roddey, '23, to Miss Jean Richards. Columbia National Bank, Columbia, S.C.
Rev. Lewis B. Schenck to Miss Betty Myers. Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
Belton R. O'Neal, '15, to Miss Erline Johnston, Box 944, Greenville, S. C.
Charles M. Brown, Jr., '25, to Miss Frances Shore. 1281 West Fourth St., Winston-Salem, N. C.

Boston, Oct. 3—(IP)—The "Gold Coast" of tradition in these parts was a row of Harvard dormitories, privately owned, luxuriously equipped
and occupied by students who had nothing to worry about in the payment of their bills. The Gold Coast now
in the news is a straggling group of ugly buildings almost on the border line between Cambridge and Somerville, which
derives its title from the profits of the bootlegging industry.

Yes, What About It?

They tell me that the cuttlefish
Is not a very subtle fish.
And I don't doubt it.
And I've heard it said no carp
Has ever learned to play the harp,
But what about it?
—B. S. in America's Humor.

Serving as a lieutenant in the Fifth Field Artillery, first division, and received wounds at the time which were considered
the indirect cause of his death. After his discharge he returned to Charlotte and continued to practice.

COLONIAL INN
Davidson, N. C.
Under Management of Registered Dietitian
HAVE WE SERVED YOU?

to Charlotte and continued to practice. WHO'S McAlister Carson (13), Mgr. lotte. He entered the World War, Not a day
passes but the press records the defalcation or theft by some trusted employee. Therefore, take no chances, but BOND ALL
IN YOUR EMPLOY.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

NEXT

M. B. Speir, Jr. ('26) OF DAVIDSON MEN

Alumni Personals

Among the hundreds of alumni visitors to the Davidson campus over the weekend was one who sent his football team
against the Wildcats—Coach Norman Shepherd, '23, mentor of the Guilford Quakers.

Dr. Robert W. McKay, '17, and Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, '06, brothers, have opened offices in the Professional Building under
the name of McKay & McKay. The former has been connected with Johns Hopkins Hospital for several years, while the
latter was a prominent member of the Crowell Clinic in Charlotte.

The "hole-in-one" club admitted two Davidson alumni members this summer, W. J. Richards, '23, of Kannapolis, and N. E. Sappenfield,
'26, of Concord. The latter also was winner of a handicap tournament played on the Cabarrus Country Club course.

Mr. and Mrs. Julius C. Martin, III, 36 Maney Avenue, Asheville, announce the birth of a son, Julius C., III,
on July 2, 1928. Mr. Martin is a 1920 alumnus.

C. A. Cannon, '15, of Concord, is president of a new $10,000,000 organization known as the Cannon Mills Company, which
was formed when nine mills in the Cannon chain were merged into one concern. J. J. Barnhardt, '12, was chosen
as one of the vice-presidents. Both of these Davidson alumni are directors.

Charles G. Rose, 1900, of Fayetteville, was chosen one of the vice-presidents of the North Carolina Bar Association this summer.

Dr. Hay Watson Smith, '00, of Little Rock, Ark., had the distinction of preaching the first sermon to Senator Joe
T. Robinson after the latter's selection as vice-presidential nominee of the Democratic party.

Dr. and Mrs. Oren Moore, Pembroke Avenue, Charlotte, announce the birth of a daughter, Louise Murphy, on June 29. Dr.
Moore is a member of the 1908 class.

George W. Coan, Jr., '11, was selected last June as president of the Forsyth Country Club, of Winston-Salem.

J. R. Jones, Jr., '17, formerly cashier of the Page Trust Company, of Sanford, and representative of the National Bank
of Commerce, New York, has become cashier of the Cabarrus Savings Bank branch at Albemarle.

Rev. George C. Bellingrath, '20, is now director of religious education in the Synod of Georgia. His address is 624
Sycamore St., Decatur, Ga.

Gen. W. A. Smith, '66, of Ansonville, was re-elected state commander of the North Carolina division of the United States
Confederate Veterans in August.

T. J. Murphy, '90, of Greensboro, was appointed by Gov. A. W. McLean as secretary-treasurer of the Atlantic and North
Carolina railroad.

Mr. and Mrs. John Lewis Payne, of Charlotte, announced last June the birth of a son, John Lewis Payne, Jr.
Mr. Payne is a '16-er.

INNOVATIONS
(Continued from page 1)

of which they have charge are as follows:
R. A. Boggess, senior biographies.
J. L. Ely, athletics.
R. C. Grady, activities.
M. T. Gilmour, fraternities.
G. A. Fry, art.
G. H. Green, photography.
R. R. Kane, features.
A. J. Cox, chief typist.

GREETINGS Davidsonians

We in Charlotte are all glad to have you back. And to the new men, we're glad to have you
here. Davidsonians are always welcome in Charlotte, and in our store. WELCOME!

Gilmer Moore Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Make Our Store Your Headquarters

Stationery

Own a Portable
You Can Buy a Good Portable For $15.00. Ask About Them

WE ALSO HANDLE A HIGH GRADE LINE OF
School Supplies

Yours For Instant Service on the Soda Fountain

New Victor, Columbia and Okeh Records Every Week

Note Books
Fountain Pens

Davidson Book & Stationery Co.
WHERE QUALITY AND SERVICE REIGN
