Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN November 29, 1928

LITERARY SOCIETIES

The feature of the program of the Philanthropic Literary Society for November the twentieth was a forum on the question
“Resolved: That the government should own and operate the principal sources of water power.” The discussion was started by M.
F. McDavid for the affirmative and J. W. McCutcheon for the negative. As this is the question to be used
in the varsity debates, much interest was shown. A declamation by H. McKinnon of the Freshman class completed the program.

In the Eumanean Society the question for debate was, “Resolved: That the court of control should be abolished at Davidson.”
After a heated debate, Messrs. A. R. Jackson and Kennedy of the negative received the decision over Messrs. S. H.
Long and D. F. Murphy. Current events were reported by C. Biggs. In the election of officers for the second
term in the Eu Society, the following men were chosen: President, J. R. Graham; vice-president, W. B. McGuire; secretary, M.
W. Norfleet; reviewer, W. L. Dumas.

Church Library New Education Feature

One of the features of the educational department of the local church is a church library. This collection of books
is housed in the room in the northeast corner of the church and the circulating period is from 10 to
11 a.m. on Sunday. Books may be kept two weeks. Regular users are given a printed book-list on which can
be checked books wanted and distribution is made at the close of the period. The library now numbers 1,050 volumes.
In it are found fiction, biography, books of travel, missions (about 150 of these), lives of Christ, commentaries, essays, and
many of a devotional character. There are books for the young, old, and middle-aged, selected with a view to educational,
inspirational, and spiritual values.

Student Picture Is Taken By Rambler

On the eve of Home-Coming Day, a “traveling house” appeared on the campus for a few days’ visit. Speculation was
rife as to the purpose of the “South Dakota Rambler's” visit. Wednesday morning the mystery was solved. The entire student
body lined up in Oak Row to have its picture taken. Also, the freshmen football team was snapped in uniform.
The pictures, which were very good, were ready for exhibition at lunch that day, and announcement was made that they
would sell for $1.25 each. A noticeable lull in interest was evident following this statement.

AUTHORITIES (Continued from page 1)

The director of the band was considering the purchase of a new baton for the drum major and had ordered
samples when word came that the Lenoir High School Band, out of appreciation of the courtesies and kindnesses shown them
at Davidson on Homecoming Day, was to present the Davidson band with a nickel-plated baton for the use of the
drum major.

Three Helens

Wooster College—(CNA)—The man-about-college at Wooster that starts out to find Helen Anderson has a 3 to 1 chance of finding
the wrong Helen. In this year’s three upper classes, there is one Helen Anderson each. The three girls are no
relation. One is from Tottenville, N. Y., one from Cleveland, Ohio, and the last from Pittsburgh, Pa.

With The Other Colleges

What. No Honor?

Western Reserve University—(CNA)—College men have absolutely no conception of the honor system as applied to cheating in their studies. This
charge was hurled to the lordly males by delegates from co-educational colleges to the 21st annual convention of the Women’s
Intercollegiate Association for Student Government held at the College for Women, Western Reserve University. The topic arose from a discussion
group session on the honor system, which many colleges use for examination without supervision by proctors or teachers. “The honor
system is failing in so many co-educational schools because men are not co-operating,” accused Caroline Robison, delegate from Swarthmore College,
Pennsylvania. “We don’t say that the men are not basically honorable, but they certainly aren’t honorable when it comes to
living up to the honor code that provides for work done in school without cheating.” “That's true!” delegates from Miami
University, Oxford, Ohio, nodded vigorous agreement. “Men just don’t take the honor system seriously,” said one. “As far as they
are concerned, it’s just a lot of fine sentiment.” Affirmation and denials of these statements, colored by personal experience in
co-educational and women’s colleges all over the United States, peppered the discussion.

All Love and Kisses

Paris—(CNA)—The Latin quarter must be all brotherly love and kisses from now on, since the minister of public instruction has
vetoed hazing in schools and colleges. Collegians are not inclined to live up to the new edict, however. The time-honored
practice of having younger students is still being observed in violation of the order. Recently, a freshman in the Ecole
Polytechnique was seriously injured while being made to walk the edge of a deep ditch blindfolded.

Uncle Sam’s Laundry

Knoxville, Tenn.—(CNA)—Laundry by mail is a regular custom here at the University of Tennessee. Post office officials say 600 students
take advantage of the service to have their laundry done at home. Each week the parcel post laundry bags filled
with soiled linen go out in trucks for widely separated parts of the country, and the clean clothes come back
the next week. Some send their garments as far as Iowa, Illinois, and New York.

Interesting Diary Found

Lexington, Va.—(CNA)—How the gallant “Light Horse Harry” Lee, general in the revolution, turned in quieter moments to reflective comments on
prose and poetry is described in his own handwriting in a diary presented to Washington and Lee University. A red-backed
book with Spanish, English, French, and Latin used by the famous general in keeping his daily account of his life,
most of the writing is legible despite its age.

Modification for the Co-ed

Evanston, Ill.—(CNA)—They’re going to standardize the books of Northwestern University co-eds by operating a dress clinic. The too-tall girl, the
too-short girl, the too-slender girl, and the too-stout girl will be given a chance to modify the lines of their
figures to a point where she will be as attractive as the other. Under the direction of Miss Anna Helga
Hong, professor of art, the “dress clinic” will aid every fair co-ed to dress attractively despite possible handicaps of nature.
Personality as well as build and features will be given consideration in the “dress prescriptions.”

Strange Sea Plants

University of Toledo—(CNA)—Spending the summer diving into the Caribbean Sea to inspect strange sea plants is one of the things
that makes life worth living for Dr. H. H. M. Bowman, of the faculty of the University of Toledo. He
is considered one of the authorities in sea plants of all kinds and has written many articles for “Science” and
other biological and technical magazines.

Most Appreciative

Akron, Ohio—(CNA)—The most appreciative audience before which they ever played, was the consensus of opinion of the members of the
enormous All-Ohio Conference band of Ohio Northern University following a program which they presented before the children of Sunshine Cottage
of the Springfield T. B. Sanitarium. The band has just completed a tour of the state.

Experienced Frosh

Oberlin College, Nov. 28.—Of a Freshman class of 164 men, at Oberlin College, 55 percent have played basketball and tennis
in high school. Thirty-one made their teams in basketball and 13 in tennis. Football came next with 46 percent having
played. Twenty-eight had made their high school teams. Percentage in track is about the same, with 41 having taken part
in interscholastic contests. Only 21 had played on high school teams. The declining interest in interscholastic baseball was evidenced by
the fact that of the 164, 141 could swim and 17 had passed the Red Cross life-saving test.

One Dollar to Forty-Two Cents

Mt. Union College, Nov. 28.—Nearly a half million dollars of the endowment subscribed to Mt. Union College has been paid,
according to the report of the treasurer. The total amount subscribed was $1,300,000. For each dollar paid in, 42 cents
will be paid by the General Education Board, founded by John D. Rockefeller.

Far Enough and Not Too Far

University of Toledo, Nov. 28—The selection of a new site for the university faces the board of directors of the
Toledo institution. A bond issue to provide the money for the construction of the new campus passed the voters by
a large majority at the fall election. The consideration of the fact that a municipal institution with regular students during
the day and the night and extension students at night, must be taken"Into consideration in the selection of a new
location,” Henry J. Doermann, president of the University declared. “We must have it far enough away from the heart of
the city to enable the students to get campus life, and not too far away for the residents of Toledo
to come to night school classes.”

Clusters of Suns
Schenectady, N. Y., Nov. 28.—Clusters of gigantic suns so far away from our sun that earth-bound light requires 47,000 years
to cross the intervening space, have been identified as the center of the universe in which we live by Prof.
Barlow Shapley, director of Harvard University observatory.

French Gallantry
Paris, Nov. 28.—Deploring the decline of good manners in France, several prominent Frenchmen have sponsored a proposal that a school
of French gallantry be established. This school will act as a sort of academy of etiquette and award annual prizes
to the most distinguished act of politeness recorded in the same way that the Carnegie Foundation awards prizes for heroism.

The blame for the decline falls upon modernity, but particularly the modern woman who it is charged “brings up her
children badly and regards instruction in social deportment as trivial if not superfluous. Perhaps it is not a question of
how they were raised. Most of them received a proper education, but they have been spoiled by the very women
towards whom their deportment indicates a disrespect. “It is the young women today, the ultra-moderns, the feminists, the bachelor girls
who set these young bloods a bad example, they permit everything, and the men think everything is permissible. They behave
badly; they behave horribly! A school for their education would be an excellent idea—but to be of any value, it
would have to be co-educational.”

Insect Collector
Cumberland College, Nov. 28.—Chasing butterflies and moths is helping J. K. Albright of Nashville, a Cumberland senior, pay his expenses
through college. During the time that Albright has been interested in collecting and exhibiting these insects, he has captured enough
to make a collection of more than 20,000, which he regards as the largest in the state. He places a
value of $4,000 on his collection. In 1927, for the first time, the Cumberland student was induced to publicly exhibit
his collection and it was sent to the Tri-State Fair at Memphis and the Tennessee State Fair. It is estimated
that more than 100,000 have viewed the exhibit. Albright will receive the degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry from
Cumberland in June, and afterward plans to teach thousands of rural residents of the state how to make butterfly catching
profitable. He will give a series of lectures, using natural specimens, photographic studies, and projectorscope slides in his work. He
also is planning to produce several motion picture reels depicting the life history and habits of butterflies and moths.

Why Rutgers?
Rutgers University, Nov. 28.—Study attracts a larger number of men to Rutgers University than social, athletic, or campus activities, according
to a survey made of the freshmen class. All freshmen were asked to answer the question, “Having heard of Rutgers,
why did you come here?” Over one-third, or 165 said they made their selection because of the excellence of the
courses, 59 came for the “spirit of the college,” forty-two liked its high academic standing, and 40 were influenced by
the moderate cost of four years here. Only six men definitely matriculated at Rutgers solely for athletics.

Keeping Tab
University of Oklahoma, Nov. 28.—A weekly grade card system for the fraternity pledges has been formulated on the campus of
the University of Oklahoma. The plan suggested by Waddell, dean of men, provides for weekly cards to be filled in
by instructors of pledges in each fraternity, recording the grade and cut record of each freshman.

Ash Trays and Easy Chairs
“Club colleges minus libraries but replete with ash trays and easy chairs are proposed as a solution of the overcrowded
conditions of institutions together with the ‘feeble-minded’ students they are turning out,” Dr. J. Kehar Park, president of Wheaton College,
declared in a recent address before a teacher's convention in Boston.

“One of the greatest needs of this country today is the establishment of club colleges as near New York as
possible, which will help to free the regular colleges of the undesirable materials now clogging them up,” he said. “These
clubs will have no libraries and no classrooms. They will offer close contact with bootleggers, lots of ash trays and
easy chairs, all the advantages of fraternity and sorority and plenty of opportunity for social recreation. Thus would our present
universities be rid of the type of student who, not interested in scholarship, is there for social reasons and feels
that it is the duty of the faculty to get him through the examinations.”

AND SPEAKING OF KISSES
And speaking of KISSES—Scientists say that each kiss cuts one minute from one’s life and that explains why there are
so many “dead ones” still alive—And we suppose many girls will live to enjoy old age—And it looks as though
college boys are willing to die young. We have a Scotch friend who kisses his girl’s picture to save dates
but he makes her promise to kiss his so that he'll get paid back. —Temple News.

It is hard to realize what an enormous amount of graft and crime is brought on by wholesale violation of
one law. Philadelphia before the recent clean-up wanted to drink, and paid heavily for it. In the past two or
three years she had paid at least $40,000,000 annually for booze, half of which went directly to graft. This, however,
was just a part of the price paid. The rest consists of a general state of lawlessness and corruption in
the “city of brotherly love.”

R. O. T. C. to Organize First Fighting Units
At the usual afternoon parade on Wednesday, November 21, the second platoon of Company D won the first place for
having the best line. The third platoon of Company C was given second place, and the band was judged to
have the third best line. On Wednesday, November 28, the usual morning drill was held, but there was no afternoon
parade. Plans are now being drawn up to organize the R. O. T. C. battalion as a fire fighting unit.
The various companies will be given different duties to perform in case a fire breaks out on the campus or
in town. The plans for buying uniforms for the band are almost completed. A statement from R. O. T. C.
headquarters reports that the uniforms will be used by the band as a college organization, not as a part of
the R. O. T. C. unit.

Notice to Upperclassmen
All Juniors and Seniors who are required to take physical exercise, and who are not on a varsity squad, are
requested to come by Captain Pritchett’s office, in the basement of New Chambers, and fill out their exercise charts for
November any time before drill on Monday, December 3rd, or on Tuesday, December 4th.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers
BARNETT and COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

BRICKS DE LUXE ICE CREAM at STUDENT STORE
CONES MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM CO. CUPS

Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia

What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?
ANSWER NO. 2
Could it be that one element of your call is the love in your heart for your fellowmen? You might
show yours by working with Him to this end. Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a happy and
achieving life; perhaps we could help you.
