THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 12, 1928 — For Sport Talk -:- News and Views of Wildcat Events By Raymond Lake

In their scrimmage with the varsity last Saturday afternoon, the Freshmen showed up well, but not quite as well as
they did in their first attempt. The “big boys” were determined to wreak vengeance for their previous defeat and worked
together better than they have done before this year. The main trouble with the Freshman quintet seems to be inaccuracy
in their shots at the basket. They work together well as a team, but when they get down to the
basket, they seem to be unable to put a large enough percentage of their shots through. Rusk is an unusually
good and consistent player, and several other members of the team have proven that they know the game and are
able to play their part in true Wildcat fashion.

By the time this paper is published, the second game will have already been played with the Duke Blue Devils,
and the team will be getting in shape for the game with Furman Friday. It would be rather hard to
make a prediction as to the outcome of this game, and it would also be useless to predict the outcome
of a game which will have been played when the paper is published, but we feel safe in saying that
the game will be no cinch for either team. The Blue Devils, with Jankoski, Werber, Farley, and Councillor in the
line-up, have an unusually strong team, and the Wildcat team is showing up much better than was expected at the
first of the year. The game with Furman Friday also promises to be a fast one. Furman always has a
strong representative in basketball as well as in the other sports, and reports indicate that this year’s team is no
exception to the rule. If the Wildcats down the Blue Devils Wednesday, however, another victory will probably follow Friday. As
has been said, the Duke game will be history by the time this paper is published, and our prediction is
that if the Wildcats have emerged from their first game victorious by that time, they will be able to repeat
the incident on Friday.

EXAMINATIONS
Success requires good equipment and we are prepared to furnish you with those necessary supplies. Fountain Pens, Ink, Erasers, and
Examination Pads. Success To You. Let us help you pass your exams.

NOT PATRONIZE IT

Davidson Wildcats Win First Basketball Game

Saturday night, December 19th, the Davidson College quintet opened its 1927-28 season, winning its initial game from the Salisbury Y.
M. C. A. team by a close margin of 47 to 43. The game held particular interest all the way
through. At the close of the first quarter, the score was 20 to 12 in favor of Salisbury, but the
Wildcats were a little more accurate with their shots in the second quarter and at the end of the half
the score was knotted 22-all. Dunham, of Salisbury, was high scorer of the game with 12 points. Harrison and Pritchett
closely followed with 10 each, while Hewlett totaled up 9 to his credit.

Line-up and summary:
Salisbury (43) Pos. Davidson (47)
Laird (8) .......... R.F. .......... McAuley (4)
Dunham (12) .... L.F. .......... Hewlett (9)
Peas (8) .......... Center .......... Wilson (6)
Schank (6) ........ R.G. .......... Harrison (10)
Robertson (8) .... L.G. .......... Pritchett (10)

Substitutions: Salisbury, Moore (1). Davidson: Kugler (6). Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

The wrestling team started the year off in excellent fashion by defeating the Concord “Y” team before the holidays, and
if they keep up the good work, will give the other Big Five teams a fight for first place. The
next meet is a return match at Concord with the Concord “Y” team, and then the wrestlers have a rest
for a while, this being the last meet until after the holidays.

China consumes more firecrackers in a year than any other nation. They are used in connection with social, religious, and
military functions, as well as births and funerals and peace demonstrations after quarrels.

BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
Dec. 17—Salisbury “Y”, Davidson.
Jan. 11—Duke University, Davidson.
Jan. 13—Furman University, Davidson.
Jan. 16—Guilford College, Davidson.
Feb. 1—Wofford College, Davidson.
Feb. 4—Elon College, Davidson.
Feb. 4—Lenoir-Rhyne College, Davidson.
Feb. 11—Citadel, Charleston, S. C.
Feb. 13—College of Charleston, Charleston, S. C.
Feb. 14—Open.
Feb. 15—Clemson College, Clemson, S. C.
Feb. 16—Furman University, Greenville, S. C.
Feb. 17—Wofford College, Spartanburg, S. C.
Feb. 21—Wake Forest College, Wake Forest, N. C.
Feb. 22—Duke University, Durham, N. C.
Feb. 23—Guilford College, Guilford, N. C.

Hurricane and Quakers To Be Played Here Next

With the Duke game out of the way, Coach Monk and his varsity hoopsters are priming for the next two
games on the schedule which take place when the Wildcats play host to the Furman and Guilford quintets. The former
is met on Friday night of this week, while Guilford comes here on next Monday evening. Both of these games
bid fair to furnish an abundant supply of thrills, and many visitors are expected to fill the gym when the
Red and Black machine swings into action.

Last season Furman was victor over Davidson on two occasions. Coming to the hill soon after exams, when the Wildcats
were off form, the Baptists ran away in the closing minutes of play to score 39 to 24 to win.
The ’Cats were unable to stem this closing rally in spite of the brilliant shooting of Captain Anderson. Later on
the Southern trip, the Greenville boys again eked out a victory. So it is easy to see why Captain Wilson
and his mates are eager to chalk up a win over the S.-C. Baptists.

Guilford was easily defeated on their own court last year by the lop-sided count of 65 to 27. This, however,
is not to be considered now, for Pat Crawford has whipped the Quakers into one of the state’s most formidable
quintets. With a wealth of veteran material, the former Davidson star has entered a team that must be figured upon
in the state race. An extra bit of color is added to the Guilford contest because of the fact that
Coach Crawford is a Davidson graduate, and a Wildcat athlete of the first order. While here he cavorted over the
hardwood floor as all-state guard. There is no doubt but that our Wildcats have a large slice of the proverbial
bacon to bring home in these next two games. Captain Wilson will, of course, be at his usual position of
center, dropping back to guard after the tip-off. Wilson’s height, reach, and aggressiveness make him now as always a source
of strength to his team. Charlie Harrison, playing his last year ofVarsity ball will again be seen at running guard,
a position at which he shows up to perfection. Andy Hewlette, high point man of two years ago, will be
at forward, along with Bennie MacAuley or John Kugler. Pritchett, captain of the frosh team in '27, will see service
as Harrison’s running mate. Pritchett is a good shot, fast on his feet, and a distinct asset to the team.
Needless to say, every one of these men will be out there giving their best, and when such is the
case, a fast, thrilling game always results.

In their time trials last Monday, the wrestling squad disclosed an abundance of good material. There are around 40 would-be
wrestlers out, and a goodly number of them promise to develop into good matmen when they have had time to
learn the “tricks of the trade.” McConnell and Hill showed up unusually well in the try-outs last Monday, and several
others looked mighty good in the work-outs later on.

Monk Younger’s Gridders Keep Fit For Next Year

Coach “Monk” Younger intends to have his gridders in good shape when the call for spring practice comes out this
term. Even though the close of the football season is officially set at Thanksgiving, and is a time for a
general relaxation among college athletes, Coach Monk has ordered the Wildcats to report en masse to Coach Paul Patterson, of
the wrestling squad, for the next two months. Ever since the season was over, the candidates for next year’s squad
have been down at the gym working out with the wrestling squad. Coach Patterson has been putting each of them
through some stiff sessions, and it seems to be helping both the football men and the wrestling team. They will
continue to practice with the matmen until the time for the opening of spring training, which will begin early in
March. The significant thing is that the school’s football talent is in excellent condition and seems to be thriving under
the additional work.

Davidson Mat Team Wins Initial Match

In a one-sided affair, the Wildcat wrestling team administered an overwhelming defeat to the Concord “Y” matmen in its initial
match of the season, on Friday, December 16th. Captain Garrison and his team won every match except one, by falls,
the other match being tied, leaving the score 25 to 0 in favor of the Wildcats. In the 115-pound class,
Flythe won a fall from Stirewalt, of Concord. In the 125-pound class, F. R. Brown won a fall from Blackwelder.
In the 135-pound class, Pritchett and Burrage tied for time. In the 148-pound class, Garrison won a fall over Nixon.
Brohard, of the 158-pound class, won a fall from Hansel. In the 158-pound class, Hill won from Irvin in a
fall. The fastest work on the mat was made by Brown, who threw his man in four minutes. The Concord
team showed that it has had some good coaching, but the men lacked the necessary strength to do any good.
Burrage, Nixon, and Hansel seemed to be the outstanding men on the Concord team.

The following is a list of the men and their weights:

Davidson Weight Concord
Flythe (5) 118 Lbs. Stirewalt (0) Bantam, 115 Lbs.
Brown (5) 127½ Lbs. Blackwelder (0) 129 Lbs. Special, 125 Lbs.
Pritchett (T) 138 Lbs. Burrage (T) 137 Lbs. Light, 135 Lbs.
Garrison (5) 148 Lbs. Nixon (0) 148½ Lbs. Welter, 145 Lbs.
Brohard (5) 158 Lbs. Hansel (0) 140 Lbs. Middle, 158 Lbs.
Hill, 172½ Lbs. Irving (0) 174 Lbs. Lightheavy, 175 Lbs.

Wildcat Grapplers Prepare for Meet

Since returning from the Christmas holidays, the Wildcat grapplers have been working out every evening. They are now preparing to
meet Concord “Y” again, this time in Concord, on the 14th of January. When they met here before Christmas, the
Wildcats won by an overwhelming margin. A match has been arranged with the William and Mary matmen on the 18th
of February. The wrestlers from William and Mary have a good reputation, and the meet promises to be a close
one. The Wildcats, captained by Jeff Garrison, started the season off with a fine showing in their defeat over Concord
“Y.” They are now inspired by their victory and are practicing hard in order to keep their record clean. Every
evening about 40 men are down at the gym going through a stiff practice. The outlook for this season is
extremely good and Coaches Tilson and Patterson are putting their men through rigid practices. Many of the men are showing
up well and look as if they will round into excellent wrestlers. The Wildcats have a hard schedule ahead of
them and they are doing everything in their power to be prepared for the best of wrestlers that any college
may put out.

It is the custom for nearly everything to undergo a change in the spring of the year. The equipment of
the Davidson campus always comes in for a good share of these changes for the better, and the good year
1928 is no exception. At the present time, the bleachers on the athletic field are absorbing a splendid coat of
gray paint. In fact, when the boys came back from the Christmas holiday, they found this needed work well under
way. A force of workmen using the very latest and most modern equipment for this sort of work is on
hand laboring steadily to complete the job so that the newly christened boards, stringers, “horses” and other pieces may be
stored away before bad weather sets in for its customary reign.

At the close of the past football season, the entire layout of bleachers seemed to have followed in the footsteps
of the Wildcat team, and to have experienced a disastrous season. They had assumed a shabby, dirty appearance and detracted
rather than added to the beauty of the field. Now, however, the whole “works” is in tip-top shape, and when
King Baseball rolls around for his inning, the bleachers at least will speak of a successful season. After all, though,
the present freshman class probably derives the most satisfaction from the operation of reconditioning the bleachers, because they realize that
next fall they will have the sweet privilege of watching another class of “rats” break their backs setting up those
tokens of freshman woe.

Modern civilization is a man slightly intoxicated driving a high-powered car and stepping on it—and usually running over somebody.

OUR SEMI-ANNUAL SALE

Manhattan Shirts

In which we offer Shirts of Percale, Madras, Broadcloth and Silk Striped effects... with collars to match or attached or
neckband style.

25% Reduction

MELLON’S
Charlotte, N. C.
