THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1928

Consideration Of Law To Be Subject of Guidance Talks

Following three weeks of the discussions on Business careers and Journalism, the “Y” will present as the subject of the fourth week’s discussion, Law. The subject of Law as a life career will be treated as have been given the discussions on the other subjects. There will be one general talk on the entire subject of Law and on the other nights of the week, a detailed discussion will be given of several different phases of the Law.

The principal speaker on the subject of Law will in all probability be S. Clay Williams. Mr. Williams is the chief counsel of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company of Winston-Salem, N. C. Mr. Williams will speak on Wednesday night, which has been set aside as the chief night for the Vocational Guidance Institute talks. S. Clay Williams is an old Davidson alumnus and an eminent lawyer in the state. Although it is not entirely certain that Mr. Williams will speak at the Wednesday night session, it was stated that he was practically certain that he would be able to be here and give his message to the Davidson students.

On other nights in the week devoted to Law, talks will be given by men who are experts in their chosen line. There will be four other talks besides the main speech on the general subject of Law. These will be delivered on different nights during the week. The detailed subjects to be treated are Criminal Law, Civil Law, Corporation Law, and another talk will be given by a prominent man in Judiciary Circles. The speakers for these subjects have not been designated as yet, due to the fact that their acceptance has not been received. Jim Appleby said that several men had been invited but that so far no one had been heard from as to whether they would be able to come to Davidson during that week and speak before the students.

After the week of Law, several eminent educators will be brought to Davidson to speak to the students who are interested in the subjects of education, which will be the theme of the fifth week’s program. Among those from whom the principal speaker on Education will be picked are Dr. D. M. Douglas, President of the University of South Carolina, and the brother of the Professors Douglass of the Davidson faculty, and George Howard, Principal of Salisbury High School.

As the final week of the Vocational Guidance Program, the subject of Medicine as a life profession will be discussed by several men of that calling. Among those being considered for the principal talk are Dr. Rankin, of Rochester, and Drs. Lafferty and Moore, of Charlotte.

Officials Hope To Discover Athletes

Although complete details will be worked out later, it is evident that Coach Monk Younger of Davidson College might have some unheard of and unsung athletes added to his various squads in the years to come, if the proposed plan of physical education goes into effect—and it seems likely that it will.

The Davidson board of trustees at its recent meeting here authorized the employment of a director of physical education, and at the same time approved suggestions offered by the faculty committee along that line. It is proposed to require all Davidson students in the junior and senior classes, who are not taking the advanced R. O. T. C. work, to elect some one of the numerous sports for a period of three months, giving a certain amount of required time each week. In other words, it is believed that the proposed plan will eliminate the usual type of specific setting-up exercises. Authorities at Davidson stated that they hope to employ the physical director within a short time, his work beginning in the fall with the opening of Davidson. Hidden athletic ability and prowess might come to the forefront under the director’s tutelage.

JESUS IS SOLUTION (Continued from page 1)

Fervent prayer, honor, chastity, and truth are all sacred things for which it is better to die fighting than to fail to cherish. There is a great challenge today for anyone who seeks to follow Jesus in the face of the world’s scorn, but this will serve to make victory more glorious.

Slang Said To Be Akin to Saxophone

“Slang and the saxophone are kin, for they both serve as means to express every mood—free or tense—of the human heart,” writes Dr. Frank H. Vizetelly, managing editor of the New Standard Dictionary, in an article called “Slang: the Saxophone of Speech,” in the Daily Princetonian. Dr. Vizetelly does not underestimate the forcefulness of slang, neither does he join the purists in denouncing it.valgarizing the language. “What has been said of slang in the past holds good for the present,” he writes, “for it is, and has been little else than, a direct product of the spontaneous combustion of the emotions, caused by a bursting of the bonds of restriction that conventional life has imposed. It is really the ‘side show’ of speech which may, some day, win its way into the ring, and there prove the chief attraction. The people who think do not find it hard to cite examples of this, and college slang is full of it.” Yet for all this, there are difficulties in the way of anyone who would officially adopt the new terms. Dr. Vizetelly continued: “In our academic institutions we have much slang that is virile and snappy, yet to one who devotes himself to the study of English, the redundance of unauthorized words and bizarre expressions frequently proves a source of unutterable annoyance and vexation. Should he take advantage of what he sees and hears in his own day, and incorporate into the language the frippery gathered through daily contact with the affairs of life or through familiar conversation with his fellow men? If so, then the very first to condemn him would be the literary critic, and he would not lack any of them to tell him that he had recognized insufferable vulgarity and debased the tongue.”—The New Student.

President Martin Makes Chapel Talk Statement Concerning Maxton Junior College Corrects Newspaper Reports and Wishes Institution Success

Neither Spoke for or Against Establishment—Matter for Synod’s Decision, He Says

Newspaper reports crediting him with whole-hearted advocacy of the junior college project recently agreed to by members of the Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina at their meeting in Maxton, prompted Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson College, to explain his position in a talk to students of the college at a recent chapel service.

“I regret that I have been quoted as having spoken whole-heartedly in favor of the establishment of a junior college at Maxton by the North Carolina Synod,” Dr. Martin declared. “I steadfastly refused to enter into any controversial discussion of this subject since it was first suggested, and have never expressed myself as being for or against the establishment of the junior college.

“Only after Davidson College had been referred to as being benefitted and harmed by the establishment of this college at Maxton did I rise to my feet at the synod meeting and make clear the position of the president and administrative officials of Davidson. I explained to the delegates that Davidson would never stand in the way of the establishment of a school or college by the Church, that Davidson considered herself the servant of the Church and not the master; and that she would never play the ‘dog in the manger.’ If the Presbyterians decided to establish the college, then Davidson would do everything to assist.

“I did take opportunity, however, of urging upon the synod the danger of undertaking the establishment of a junior college unless they saw their way clear to raise sufficient funds to give the school an endowment necessary to make it an accredited institution. ‘There is no reason why the church should undertake to support another college if she can’t see her way clear to do so,’ I told them. It will be a big mistake to undertake this project if it is going to result in a half-dying institution, too poor to secure the equipment and the faculty necessary to win it an accredited rating.’ I want you young gentlemen to know that I did not speak in favor of the junior college, and that I did not speak against it. That was a matter for the Synod to decide, and not for the president of Davidson College to dictate.”

Dr. Martin closed his remarks by saying, “Now that it has been decided to have the junior college, I sincerely hope that every Presbyterian and friend of Christian education will rally to the support of the new institution, and make it a success.”

HANCOCK Davidson Representatives: McCONNELL MELLON’S Charlotte, N.C.

The New Braeburns Will Be Presented Here Next Week See them at Schofield’s Tea Room Tuesday, March 6th

You are invited to view the world’s most authentically styled University type clothes ....as well as haberdashery to go with them.

GILMOUR MILD VERY MILD..AND YET THEY SATISFY

We STATE it as our honest belief that the tobaccos used in Chesterfield cigarettes are of finer quality and hence of better taste than in any other cigarette at the price.

Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. CHESTERFIELD CIGARETTES