THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 12, 1928

RIFLE TEAM SOON TO BEGIN FIRING IN SOUTHERN MATCH

The third marksmanship match of the year, in which all the R.O.T.C. units of the Fourth Corps Area will contest,
will be fired by the rifle team during the entire month of February. The match is to be fired in
four stages, one stage each week. During the opening week, the first stage will be fired from the sitting and
prone positions. The second stage is fired from the kneeling and prone positions, the third from standing and prone, and
during the last week, the fourth stage will be fired from prone and prone. Each member of the team, which
consists of 15 men of the R.O.T.C. unit, will fire 10 shots from each position of each stage, making 20
rounds for each stage; 80 for the match. The 15 men having fired, the scores of the 10 high men
will be sent to headquarters as the final record. The team thus scoring the highest number of points will be
rewarded with the trophy which is offered by the headquarters of the Fourth Corps Area.

The men who will fire in the match are J. S. Gudger, Shelby Vance, C. W. Taylor, W. M. Long,
E. D. Lennon, W. G. McGavock, R. D. Russell, J. E. Bradley, S. Y. Brown, W. B. Yancey, F. G.
Epes, Jeff Garrison, Julian Lake, C. P. Greyer, A. G. Randolph.

Two matches have been fired previously during the year. The Scabbard and Blade match for the members of the unit
was won by Shelby Vance. A match was also held with Statesville, which was won by Freeze and Wilson. The
advanced course men won the trophy for the Fourth Corps Area during the summer work at Camp McClellan.

Mr. James Holmes Carson, ’13, will be married to Miss Charlotte Milstead, of Charlotte, in February. The bride-elect, daughter of
Mrs. Andrew Tammill Milstead, is one of Charlotte’s most beautiful and popular girls. The bridegroom, who is engaged in the
insurance business, is one of the most prominent and popular of Charlotte’s young business men.

Out of the 932 London policemen accidentally injured while on duty during the year, 115 were bitten by dogs.

Ministerial Band Elects President

The Ministerial Band held a brief meeting Sunday afternoon at 2:30, in Shearer Hall, for the purpose of electing officers
for the coming semester. Officers in this band are elected semi-annually. The meeting was opened by a few songs, after
which Messrs. McClure and Norfleet led in prayer. Following this was a responsive reading, and there being no special business
before the band, the election of officers followed. The results of the election were as follows: President, Paul Thrower; vice-president,
Tom Hill; secretary and treasurer, Alex. Warren. These men are all capable and efficient, as well as being popular with
the other members of the band, and with this leadership and good cooperation, the Ministerial Band is eagerly looking forward
to next semester’s work. A good crowd of about 30 men attended this first meeting of the new year, which
makes the prospects look all the more encouraging.

Vance Wins Trophy For Marksmanship

Shelby Vance, of Crossnore, has been awarded the trophy offered by the Scabbard and Blade military fraternity to the Davidson
student turning in the highest score in an open rifle match just concluded here. Vance finished the match with a
score of 188 points out of a possible 200, which is said to be one of the highest scores ever
turned in at Davidson. E. D. Lennon, of Lumberton, was second, and P. J. Garrison, of Covington, Ga., was third.
Firing was done on the local indoor range at 50 feet, using the latest type of graduated targets recommended by
the National Rifle Association. Sixteen students participated in the match.

A Complete Line of Drugs and Sundries | White Drug Co.

SEMI-ANNUAL SALE IS NOW ON

SOCIETY BRAND

You can buy a $40 Suit or Overcoat at . . $30.
$50 Suit or Overcoat at . . $37.50
$60 Suit or Overcoat at . . $45.

This is a Tate-Brown Co. Sale, the merchandise the best in America and of course the reductions are genuine.

Tate-Brown Co. Charlotte, N.C.

FRUHAUF BROS. SUITS AND OVERCOATS LONDONTOWN

Student Volunteers in Detroit, Michigan, was the scene of the tenth quadrennial International Convention of the Student Volunteer

An announcement of much interest to students of Davidson is that concerning the marriage of Miss Ruth Hoyle to W.
A. Cathey, of Davidson. This marriage, which was to have beenMovement. It was kept a secret until after Cathey’s graduation,
held in the newly constructed Masonic Temple at Detroit and lasted from December 28th to January 2nd. Approximately 4,500 or
5,000 delegates were present. The assembly consisted of college students (both boys and girls), student pastors, ministers, missionaries, and “Y”
secretaries.

The purpose of this convention was to gather students and speakers from around the world to discuss the work and
purpose of foreign missions. The convention was well organized. The delegates were divided into discussion groups and sectional groups, and
the main sessions were held in the auditorium. The program ran from 9:00 o'clock in the morning until 12:30, from
2:30 in the afternoon to 5:00 o'clock, and from 7:30 in the evening until 10:30. The morning and night sessions
were held in the main auditorium, and the sectional and discussion groups met in the afternoon.

Among the speakers and leaders were Dr. Richard Roberts, Dr. Henry T. Hodgkin, Dr. Francis Wei, Dr. John R. Mott,
Robert E. Speer, Mordecai Johnson, and Miss Margaret Crutchfield. Dr. Roberts is a well-known writer in England, the United States,
and Canada. He is now the pastor of the United Church at Toronto. Dr. Wei is the president of the
Central China Christian University, and Dr. Mott, a well-known author, is the president of the World’s Alliance of Young Men’s
Christian Associations. Robert E. Speer, who is the moderator of the Presbyterian Church of the United States, is now a
pastor in New York, while Miss Crutchfield is the traveling secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement.

Davidson was represented by Allan Frew. Glenn Fry also attended part of the convention as the president of the North
Carolina Union of the Student Volunteer Movement.

Miss Hoyle, who is at present a member of the faculty of the Cornelius High School, is a recent graduate
of Greensboro College for Women. The ceremony was solemnized in the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, on November 28th. Rev.
R. E. Love, the pastor of that church and a cousin of the bride, conducted the ceremony. Cathey, whose home
is in Davidson, is a popular member of the Senior class of the school. While no definite announcement has yet
been made, it is thought that the couple will make their home here, where the two have many friends.

Wildcats Prime For Oak Ridge Five

The Davidson Fresh basketball team will play their first game of the season against the strong Oak Ridge team Saturday
night at 8:00 o'clock. The game will be played at Davidson, and, although the strength of the fresh team is
not yet proven, a good, fast game from start to finish is expected. Extra long practice sessions and several scrimmages
with the varsity have been held recently to get the team in trim for the game. Most of Coach Mattox’s
time is being spent developing an offense. This will be the only game played until mid-year examinations. The probable line-up
for Davidson will be: Forwards, McCall and Rusk; center, Wilson; guards, Proctor and Goodson.

Lucky Afterthought

Mrs. Peck—“We have been married 20 years today, John.”
John (with a sigh)—“Yes, for 20 years we have fought——”
Mrs. Peck (scowling)—“What?”
John (quickly)—“Life’s battles together, Maria.”—Pathfinder.

Seventeen years ago a number of beet seeds were stored away by a Danish seed-testing station. Each year some have
been withdrawn for experimental purposes. Tests proved that eighty-five percent of germination took place in the second year and twenty-four
percent in the seventeenth year of dormancy. Seeds of white clover germinated after a lapse of twenty-five years.

I DON’T doubt it, nor do I wonder why. Just open a tidy red tin and get that full fragrance
of Nature’s noblest gift to pipe-smokers. Then tuck a load in the business-end of your old jimmy-pipe. Now you’ve got
it—that taste—that Lead-me-to-it, Gee-how-I-like-it taste! Cool as a condition. Sweet as making it up. Mellow and satisfying. Try this mild,
long-burning tobacco, Fellows. I know you'll like it.

PRINCE ALBERT—the national joy smoke! They say P.A. is the world's largest seller. You can pay more but you can’t
get in satisfaction.
