~ THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1928

Old Pictures of Former Teams Given to College
Efforts Being Made to Obtain All Pictures Possible

Pictures of the football teams of 1906 and 1907 have been presented to the alumni office by Mr. Thos. W.
Rankin, '09, president of the Fayetteville Alumni Association. The names of the members will be printed on the bottom, the
picture will be framed, and later will be hung on the walls of the trophy room, which is in the
alumni office. During the next few months, efforts will be made to obtain as many pictures of former teams as
possible. The 1904 baseball picture is available for a reprint and will be of particular interest to the 1903, 1904,
1905, and 1906 classes, all of which return to Davidson in May for reunions. Offers have been made by other
alumni to furnish pictures for the trophy room, and these will be followed up by the office here. In this
same connection, the alumni office will make an effort to get a complete set of all the annuals published by
the Senior classes of Davidson. These would be kept on file for alumni perusal when they return to Davidson.

Fayetteville’s Alumni Members Elect Officers
Thos. W. Rankin, '09, Re-elected President of Association

Thos. W. Rankin, '09, was re-elected president; R. H. Dye, 1900, was elected vice-president, and W. B. Jennings, ’26, was
re-elected secretary of the Fayetteville Alumni Association of Davidson College at their annual meeting at the Prince Charles Hotel in
that city last Thursday night. The meeting was in the form of a supper, held in a private dining room
of the hotel. About a dozen but very enthusiastic group of alumni attended, three of them coming from St. Pauls,
and one from Hope Mills, points near Fayetteville. During the meeting, a telegram was read from Dr. W. J. Martin,
president of Davidson.

The meeting was informal, Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, being present to lead the discussion about Davidson College and outline alumni
work.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

Milton Edward Miller, ’22, was married to Miss Elizabeth Norfleet at high noon, Saturday, at the Moravian Church, with Dr.
Rondthaler, the bride’s pastor, and Bishop Edward Rondthaler, of the Moravian Church, officiating. Mrs. Miller is the only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Norfleet and has a wide host of friends throughout the South. Mr. Miller is the son
of Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Miller, of Winston-Salem. He was graduated from Davidson College in the class of '22,
and is associated in business with Fogle and Brothers, of Winston-Salem. Upon their return from an extensive wedding trip, the
bride and groom will be at home with Mr. and Mrs. Norfleet.

Dr. Thomas Boaz, '22, was married to Miss Adelaide Wright on last Thursday evening at the West End Methodist Church,
in Winston-Salem, with Rev. L. B. Hayes and Bishop Edward Rondthaler officiating. Mrs. Boaz is the only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. W. C. Wright, of Winston-Salem. She was graduated from Salem College in music and afterwards studied abroad. Dr.
Boaz is the son of Dr. and Mrs. T. A. Boaz, of that city.

Personal Friends of H. F. Glenn, ’27, who is now a medical student at Emory University, Ga., will regret to
learn of the death of his father, Dr. H. F. Glenn, Sr., which occurred in Gastonia Monday afternoon, February 27th.

S. A. Robinson, '99, has been elected as one of the vice-presidents of the Gastonia Post of the Travelers Protective
Association.

R. L. Black, '22, of Wilmington, has successfully coached a second athletic team to a state title, his basketball five
defeating Charlotte last weekend for first honors of the cage game. It will be remembered that his football eleven copped
the state title, defeating Greensboro.

Geo. W. Coan, Jr., '11, of Winston-Salem, is Chairman of the Community Chest drive of that city.

Dr. J. L. Petrie Honored by Church for Service
While Student at Davidson he Roomed in Elm Row

The Davidsonian takes this opportunity of congratulating a distinguished alumnus of Davidson—Dr. George L. Petrie, of the class of '59.
A special program was recently held at the First Presbyterian Church of Charlottesville, Va., for Dr. Petrie, who has just
completed his fiftieth year as pastor there. The main speaker at this time was Dr. Ernest Thompson, of the Union
Theological Seminary of Richmond, Va.

Prior to his pastorate of this church, Dr. Petrie had held a very important, but conspicuous position in the Southern
Presbyterian Church. He also served as chaplain in the Civil War. Although he is 88 years old, Dr. Petrie is
still one of the most active and popular men in the Presbyterian Church of the South today.

C. E. Houston, ’26, was called to his home in Monroe recently by the serious injury to his sister in
an automobile accident. Last newspaper reports stated that she was still unconscious but would probably recover. Mr. Houston is now
studying law at Columbia University and will complete his second year in June. While at Davidson, he roomed in Elm
Row, where the alumni offices are now. He has expressed his intention of coming to the commencement exercises this spring.

Alumni Opinions on Dr. Green

During the meeting, alumni were asked to suggest names of Davidson men.At a recent meeting in Chicago, Rev. Lawrence Little,
'25, of Concord, was elected vice-chairman of the International and National Executives Professional Advisory Council of Religious Education.

All newspapers in the South recently carried an account of the death of F. S. Royster, Sr., of Norfolk, Va.,
father of W. S. Royster, '99, of Stoneville, N. C. He is a graduate of Davidson College and the Virginia
Medical College, at Richmond, Va. He is a prominent young dentist of Winston-Salem. Upon their return from their wedding trip,
Dr. and Mrs. Boaz will be at home on the Country Club road, Winston-Salem.

As alumni trustees and as president of the alumni association, the secretary was endeavoring to find out how well the
alumni knew each other, and what was the best possible procedure in electing the alumni trustees. It was decided to
hold the next meeting in the fall during the football season.

Recent alumni visitors to Davidson were Rev. W. S. Patterson, '03; Rev. D. W. Richardson, '02; S. B. Woods, '14;
G. B. Sorrells, '23, and M. D. Fields, '24.

The fresh good-looking cagers, with a wealth of material, started in form with the varsity but were taken in tow
by other state teams on their trip about North Carolina. They lost several close contests in the final moments of
play, being nosed out by only one or two points. Their contributions of material to the varsity squad are better
than in the past two or three years, according to the Athletic Council.

Seven varsity and seven freshman letters and numerals were awarded by the Athletic Council last Thursday night, including the manager’s
letter. These awards are as follows, announced by Manager Carson:

Varsity:
- B. A. Wilson (Captain)
- C. W. Harrison
- J. R. Kugler
- A. J. Hewlett
- B. W. McAulay
- C. R. Pritchett
- C. C. Carson (Manager)

Freshmen:
- W. B. Goodson (Captain)
- J. M. Proctor
- R. G. Wilson
- Dean Rusk
- J. D. McCall
- A. W. McAllister
- R. S. Overman

Manager Carson announces negotiations for games next season with a trip through Virginia already planned and play with other teams
of this state and territory pending. He announces the following teams and dates:
- February 11, Guilford
- February 13, V. M. I.
- February 14, W. & L.
- February 15, University of Virginia

Games with Duke, State, and Carolina have practically been assured, Carson said.

These awards follow a season which was started with a rush by both varsity and frosh basketters which sent them
flying on their way only to hit the toboggan and slide to middleground with a few more victories than losses.
The varsity went through South Carolina on an annual trip which resulted in victories over The College of Charleston, and
Wofford and losses to The Citadel, Clemson, and Furman. Meeting only two teams from the State big five, the 'Cats
divided, losing to Duke and gaining a great victory over Wake Forest in the final home game of the season.
The other games in this state were about equally divided between the loss and won column.

“Dr. Green at first gives one the impression that he knows what he is talking about, and further acquaintance with
him bears this out. He does not talk unless he has something to say, and what he says is to
the point.”—“Soc” Gibbs.

“Dr. Green’s style of speaking is a challenging contrast to the familiar student attitude to ‘collegiate philosophy’ designated on college
campuses by a more homely and expressive term.”—Dehoy.

“Dr. Green is a profound thinker with a forceful method of presenting his material. His ability to show one his
relationship to God awakens in one a desire to serve God.”—Walt” Walter Bracey.

“Dr. J. B. Green is one of the clearest thinkers that I have ever met in the ministry. He is
an impressive speaker, speaking from the salient knowledge that he has a message for those to whom he speaks. Every
student will be impressed with the force and definiteness of his talks.”—“Check” Chester Monk.

“Dr. Green is a man with a message that always strikes home. His thought is clear; his expressions still clearer.
His presentation or delivery is orderly and forceful. Now combine with the above, his mastery of Theology, and you begin
to see just what a power in the pulpit and classroom that he really is.”—Joe M. Garrison.

“No,” answered Uncle Bill Bottletop. “I have become a teetotaler myself, so I couldn’t honestly promise to be of service
in getting evidence against anybody.”—Washington Star.

“Would you accept a job as a prohibition agent?”
