~THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. XV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 8, 1928 No. 27

Awarding of Gold Footballs and Certificates Features Athletic Night

Dr. Edgar Gammon of Charlotte Principal Speaker March 14

Alumni Who Have Been Loyal to Davidson Will Also Receive Honors

Athletic Night, which is one of the chief features of the Athletic Department, will be held in Shearer Hall at eight o’clock on the night of March the 14th. This night is always looked forward to as one of the biggest nights during the year. The principal speaker on the program will be Dr. Edgar Gammon, of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, of Charlotte. Dr. Gammon was a great athlete at Hampden-Sidney when he attended that institution. Although Dr. Gammon is not an alumnus of Davidson, he is a staunch friend of the school and has supported Davidson in its athletics as well as other branches of the college.

On this night of nights, gold footballs will be given to those who made their letters in football. Football, basketball, and track certificates will also be presented to those making their letters during the past seasons. Another important feature of the program will be awards given to certain alumni. These awards will be to alumni who have been loyal to Davidson in their support of the athletics of the college. The names of these men are to be withheld until Athletic Night when the awards will be made.

Honorary Fraternities Bid March Fourteenth. Date Made Earlier to Insure Soon Initiation

March the 14th is the day set by the Honorary Fraternity Council as bid day for all honorary fraternities with the exception of Omicron Delta Kappa. The reason given for setting the date almost a month earlier than heretofore is to allow the initiations to occur earlier in the year. Formerly, if seniors happened to be bid, they were initiated shortly before commencement and were therefore unable to engage in any of the active work of the organization. The early date also allows for delay on the part of a fraternity that on account of extenuating circumstances in bidding or initiating. The earlier date also insures the new members being fully “matriculated” and prepared to take over direction of the work the following year. Since the members of O. D. K., national fraternity, depend upon the results of the student body elections, that organization was allowed to defer its bid day to a later date than that of the others.

Davidson has, at present, eight national honorary fraternities, and three local organizations. Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa are the outstanding fraternities on the campus. Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary fraternity, has eight members. Sigma Upsilon, the literary organization, has some 14 members. Sigma Pi Sigma, Physics, is 15 strong. Alpha Phi Epsilon, Forensic fraternity, has 15 members while Scabbard and Blade, Military organization, is 16 strong. The International Relations Club has some 20 members. The local fraternities are Omega Phi Alpha, Philosophical, Biology Club, and Delta Pi Kappa.

Pritchett and Hall Lose Debate With William and Mary

Before a packed house in the Queen's College auditorium last week, a Davidson debating team composed of Frank Hall and Carl Pritchett lost a close decision to a team representing William and Mary College of Virginia. Dr. Frazer, president of Queens, presided. Debating on the subject, “Resolved, That the United States Should Cease to Protect by Force of Arms American Capital Invested in Foreign Lands,” the debaters offered an intensely interesting discussion to the large audience. The Davidson speakers debated on the affirmative.

Frank Hall, first speaker, pointed out that the present policy encouraged economic exploitations in foreign countries by big American interests. He also pointed out the needless risk and loss of life, bloodshed, and the fast-approaching storm will expose the things to come. Carl Pritchett, second speaker, showed that this policy was one of political imperialism and is leading to bad relations with the weaker nations of the world. Pritchett emphasized the fact that American investors invest without the guarantee of armed support and that they should not expect to be protected at the expense of political friendliness.

The William and Mary team, Kelsey and Elliott, from the negative point of view, stated that the present policy had proved to be the most expedient and it was on this point that its debate was largely based. The negative attacked the practicality of the substitute offered by the affirmative, that of arbitration in the World's Court. The judges brought in a decision of two to one in favor of the negative. Almost every member of the Davidson varsity debating teams went over for the debate. One of the best audiences seen at a debate in this section for some time.

Annual Student Body Elections Will Begin Wednesday, March Fourteenth

In spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love—and what not, but his more sober thoughts are concerted upon the devious intricacies of the college political machines, and the part they will play in the coming spring elections. These elections usually take place before the spring holidays, so within the next three weeks they will be upon us. Throughout the classic halls of old Georgia, the Tammany of the “Row,” are echoing the words, “The platform's the thing, whereon we'll make our candidate's favor ring,” while the reply comes hurling back from the anti-saloon league headquarters in the North, “Be his merits broader than the sky, he won’t win out unless he’s dry.” For weeks already ward bosses and the amateur politicians have been making secret and piercing thrusts at each other through the smoke-befogged bull sessions, and without their knowing it, the innocent voters have their minds half made up through suggested prejudices. Of such, are conditions that be.

Turning then, to the more serious side of the elections, we realize that it is a time for sober thought and deliberate action, for upon the character and ability of the officers that are chosen will depend the fortunes of the separate classes and the student body as a whole. It is the strictest duty of every man in school to appreciate the import of the selection of the leaders, and it is also everyone's obligation, and debt, to his school to cast his vote, that the officers may be chosen in more fairness and good judgment. The instruments of our organizations are being molded; of what substance shall they be? Reviewing the elections of the past, we are impressed by the fact that there has always been an abundant wealth of leadership in the college, but keeping the ultimate good of the school always in mind, the student should cast his vote with an unbiased mind only after a careful discrimination of the merits of each nominee. The standard of the college must depend upon the conscientious observance of these rules.—“The Political Observer.”

Long List of Honor Students Published

Among the forty-one names announced by the Registrar as composing the Honor Roll for the first term of the current year, there were sixteen juniors, fifteen seniors, six sophomores, and four freshmen. This is the largest number in recent years and is but another indication of the effect of careful selection of students which has been the practice for the past several years, according to officials. Announcement of those who have the distinction of having made the honor roll comes in a different form than in previous statements. Instead of quoting the grade of each man and giving his position in relation to others, the list is published without any such distinctions.

Gastonia Editors Show Advantages and Uncertainties in Newspaper Work

The managing editor and editor of The Gastonia Gazette spoke at Davidson on the night of February 29. Their addresses were a part of the third week of the “Y” vocational series. The managing editor emphasized the importance of a newspaper man being a man of action, one who plows regardless of criticism which may be heaped upon him.

Rhodes Scholarship Useful in Medicine

Wilburt C. Davison, Dean of the Duke| University School of Medicine, sends the following message to Davidson men who are considering applying for the Rhodes scholarship to be awarded from this state in December of this year. Mr. Davison was from New York. Following his course there he became a Rhodes scholar, assistant dean of Johns Hopkins Medical Gates, from which position he was called to fill the chair at Duke. Although still a young man, Mr. Davison is well along the way toward a distinguished career and his message should be particularly interesting to Davidson men.

The number of pre-medical and medical students who are applying for Rhodes scholarships is increasing every year. Many more would be candidates if they realized what a great opportunity is offered to them. The preparation for medicine which can be obtained by three years’ study at the Medical School of Oxford University and one or two years at an American medical school has many advantages over four years at an American medical school. An American Rhodes scholar, on entering Oxford, can enroll in the Honor School of Physiology and obtain the B.A. degree in Physiology at the end of two years. This entitles him, without further examination, to the M.A. degree. During this time he can complete the study of anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, pharmacology, pathology, bacteriology, and physical diagnosis, the subjects usually taught in the first two years in an American medical school. He can then be admitted, if his record is satisfactory, to the third-year class of the medical schools of Johns Hopkins, Harvard, Duke, and several other universities, and obtain his M.D. degree in four years from the time he entered Oxford. It will, however, be wiser for the student to remain at Oxford for a third year so that he may avail himself of the opportunity for independent work in physiology, pathology, biochemistry, etc., and thus obtain the B.Sc. degree at the end of this year. This supplementary training is of inestimable value in his future career as a physician or surgeon. If, in addition to this work, the student has profitably utilized his vacations, and there are three of them each year—six weeks each at Christmas and Easter and three months in the summer—by clinical work in London...

(Continued on page 8)

Summer Session of Six Weeks Lately Approved by Trustees of College Institution to Begin Tuesday, June 12

FLEAGLE MADE DIRECTOR

Various Courses of College Grade Offered to Students and Teachers

At their last meeting, the Trustees of Davidson College authorized a summer session of six weeks, to begin Tuesday, June 12. The courses to be given will be of college grade, and will be available to students of Davidson or other colleges who wish to advance their college standing. They should also have an appeal to teachers of the public schools who wish to raise or renew their licenses. All courses will be taught by members of the regular college faculty. Prof. F. K. Fleagle has been appointed as director. Courses including Bible, Education, English, History, Mathematics, Science, and Spanish are offered, with the understanding that only six hours of work will be given in each department. More is offered, however, so as to allow some range of choice, and the courses finally selected will depend on the demand of the students. In any case where there is sufficient demand for a course not at present offered, arrangements will be made to have it given.

Students who wish to secure rooms in the dormitories should send their names to the Director of the Summer School as soon as possible. The charges for dormitory rooms for the term of six weeks will be $12.50 each, if two students...

(Continued on page 5)

French Author Delivers Lecture on Swiss Alps

Monsieur Gos Gives Illustrated Address in French

The Swiss Alps was the subject of the lecture delivered here last Thursday evening by M. Gos, a native French author. M. Gos entertained the students, faculty, and townspeople with an illustrated address. He is at present making a lecture tour of the United States. M. Gos springs from an aesthetic family. His father was an artist of note, and he himself is an author of both prose and poetry. His work is somewhat along the line of Oliver Curwood. He is also a mountain climber of repute, having scaled many of the highest peaks of the Alps unaccompanied by guide or friend. He speaks English poorly but is elegant in his use of French. His presence was secured by the Faculty Committee on Lectures.

M. Gos’ lecture on the Alps was illustrated with well-chosen and beautifully painted scenes. His address opened with a description of the plateaus and valleys of the Alpine region. The valleys are very acute but highly fertile. The lakes are numerous and beautiful. The speaker next described the jagged rock-peaks, the snow-covered caps, and the huge glaciers of the Alps. He then spoke of the hazards of mountain climbing and of the courageous characteristics that the mountaineers have developed. He mentioned several thrilling mishaps befalling parties attempting to ascend the peaks. One incident which he related was horrible in its results. Five men were racing with a lone man in an attempt to beat him to the top. They arrived there before he did but on the descent they tumbled from the side of a cliff and only... 

(Continued on page 5)