THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1928

Sigma Pi Sigma, Physical Frat Holds Convention on Campus

On Tuesday night, April 10th, Dr. Marsh W. White, associate professor of physics at Pennsylvania State College, gave an illustrated
lecture on “The Energetics of the X-ray.” The address was well attended as delegates from five Southern colleges as well
as several hundred students and faculty members were present. Dr. White’s lecture followed a banquet for Sigma Pi Sigma delegates
at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. The lecture, which was illustrated by numerous slides, portrayed the development of the X-ray tubes
from the days of Röntgen to the modern Coolidge tube. Declaring that experiments in which the energy of the high
velocity electrons in X-ray tubes was measured furnished evidence for the variation of mass with velocity as postulated by the
theory of relativity, Dr. Marsh explained the causes which led to a loss of all except one ten-thousandth of one
percent of the energy originally put into an X-ray tube.

Mr. R. W. Graves, young Davidson alumnus and retiring president of the fraternity, presided over the meeting. He had prepared
a speech for the night but on account of lack of time was not able to deliver it. The following
officers were elected at the past meeting: C. C. Hatley, of Duke University, president; Dr. R. C. Young, of William
and Mary College, vice-president, and Dr. Marsh W. White, of Pennsylvania State College, secretary and treasurer. Prof. W. N. Mebane
and Dr. Douglass and the officers listed above compose the executive council of Sigma Pi Sigma.

On last Tuesday, Dr. R. C. Young, of William and Mary College, gave a very interesting and profitable speech on
“The Use of the Vacuum Tube Oscillator in Making Laboratory Measurements.” This oscillator tube is to supplant for accuracy the
Wheatstone bridge. Dr. Young did considerable work along this line at Chicago and at the present time he is using
this tube at William and Mary for the audibility range of the human ear. This instrument is calibrated by means
of the tuning fork and the property of beats. Most of the business of the meeting was in change of
constitution, ritual, and forms for petitions, certificates, etc.

Fresh Netmen Hold Spring Tournament

The tournament to select the men who will represent Davidson on the Freshman tennis team is being played off this
week. About 25 men are trying for the team, and from this number four will be selected. So far, the
matches have been postponed because of rain, but they will probably be over by the end of the week. The
Freshman material looks very good, and a first-class tennis team will very likely be turned out. Rusk, Lynn, Poe, Meacham,
Moffett, and Hall are showing up especially well at the practices. The manager has received letters from Carolina and from
Winston-Salem High School requesting matches with the Freshmen around May 1st. A trip is being planned which will include Carolina,
Winston-Salem High School, Oak Ridge, and probably Duke.

Local Officers Promote C.M.T. Camp Attendance

The officers assigned to the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit have been busy during the past two weeks in boosting the C.M.T.C.
camps in this part of the state. The value of attendance at these camps is being emphasized by the government
more and more every year, and Captain Daugherity and his associates have been working to see that this section of
North Carolina furnishes its quota of young men. Captain Daugherity has just returned from a trip carrying him into Burke,
Caldwell, and Catawba counties, where he has made a series of lectures at the various high schools in the interest
of these camps. Captain Elkins is putting his attention on Rowan county, where he has already made talks in Salisbury,
Spencer, and China Grove. Captain Otto, working in Lincoln county, reached his quota without much trouble, doing all his work
through correspondence. Lincoln county has furnished quite a few men to these camps already, so registration was rather fast in
that section.

The Demon Deacons from Wake Forest College defeated the Wildcats in the first of a two-game series here Friday afternoon
by the score of 7 to 3. A long triple by “Phoebe” Phelps in the ninth with the bases loaded
spelled disaster for Monk's men. Three runners, of course, eased across the pan, and a minute later Phelps came in
on an error. “Doc” Kugler took the hill against the visitors and was not scored upon till the fourth, when
two runs came over. The ’Cats tied things up in the fifth, and from this point the score varied, until
the ninth inning found the two teams again tied at three all. Kugler gave way to a pinch hitter in
the eighth, and in the ninth, the Deacons began a determined attack on Henderson which, coupled with Dulin’s error of
a grounder, resulted in the winning runs. Crawford led the hitting for the home boys, with Clayton and Scarboro ahead
for the visitors. The Wildcats had a chance to sew up the game in the seventh when, with the bases
full, Johnson struck out and Kugler flew out to center.

Score by innings: R H E
Wake Forest 000 200 104—7 9 2
Davidson 000 200 010—3 9 2
Batteries: Lanning, K. Joyner and Kuykendall; Kugler, Henderson, Meadows, and MacAuley.

Masquers Present “Three Live Ghosts”

“Three Live Ghosts” was the title of the play presented by the Red and Black Masquers in Shearer Hall Tuesday
night. The drama was sponsored by the Junior class and played by the Dramatic club in co-operation with Mrs. Hengeveld,
Miss Ruth Erwin, and Miss Elizabeth Thompson. The play pictured the lower English class life in London. Miss Erwin had
by far the superior part, while no little amount of ability was necessary for Crawford’s part. Mrs. Hengeveld, who played
opposite V. J. Guthrey, president of the club, had a leading part in the play. Miss Thompson vividly portrayed the
character she represented. The cast was:

Old Sweetheart—Ruth Erwin.
Miss Woofus—Miss Elizabeth Thompson.
Bolton (American Detective)—Dick Flynn.
Jimmie Gubbins—Stewart Meacham.
Spoofy—Martin Crawford.
William Foster (alias Bill Jones)—“Bud” Guthrey.
Briggs (Scotland Yard)—Riggs McConnell.
Rose Gordon—Mrs. Hengeveld.
Benson—Bill Powell.
Mrs. Gubbins—Miss

The registrations for all classes are to be completed by Saturday of this week, it was announced by Mr. F.
W. Hengeveld, the registrar. The rising Sophomores were registered during the last three days of the past week. The presentThe
week is occupied by the registration of the rising Juniors during the first three days and of the rising Seniors
during the last three days. No figures will be given out as to the number registering for next year until
all registrations are complete. It might be well to note at this point that no reservations for rooms can be
made until a student’s registration for courses is complete. All reservations for rooms are made through the treasurer, Mr. F.
L. Jackson, and this matter will be attended to immediately after the completion of registration. The registrar also announces that
a course not in the catalogue will be offered next year. The course will be given by Professor Cullum and
will be a study of the appreciation of art. Professor Cullum has been giving a course this year in the
appreciation of music and the course next year will be somewhat a parallel of that one. Philosophy II will be
a prerequisite to next year’s course and for that reason it will be open only to Seniors. Boys from this
part of the state will go to the camp at Fort Bragg, and from present indications there will be a
large number of Davidson men there.

NOTICE TO REPORTERS
As the new staff takes charge of the news departments of The Davidsonian, a new policy in regard to news
articles handed in by the reporters will be inaugurated. Each article will be strictly graded. At the election of the
Reporters’ Club and at the appointment of the staff next year, these grades will play a vital part in rating
the ability of the men. The men will be graded on a threefold basis. Neatness and merit of the article
will count six points. Handing it in on time or giving reason on time for not filling the article gets
three points. Working in The Davidsonian office on Monday night will count one point, making a total of ten points.
The importance of working in the office must not be underrated by reason of the grade given for such work.
Consistent work in the office and handing articles in on time will play as vital a part in appointment as
well-written and typed articles.

SOPH DAY DATE SET
The date for the annual “Soph Day” program has been definitely set for Saturday, April 21st. Although there will be
a Freshman track meet then, it was decided by the Soph Day committee, consisting of 20 members of the Soph
class and of which Jim Hammett is chairman, that it would be better to have it then than on the
weekend of Junior speaking. There will be exercises in the morning, afternoon, and night at that time and, though nothing
can be said of their nature, it is certain that they will be interesting and entertaining to all the students.
Of particular interest is the announcement that a final concert will be held in Shearer Hall about May 1st. This
will end the season for the entire Glee Club, which will appear in concert, together with the symphony and jazz
orchestras.

Glee Club Renders Concert at Badin
Continuing their successful series of presentations, the Glee Club appeared in concert at Badin on Thursday night, April 12th. The
organization was accompanied by both the symphony and jazz orchestras, which gave a pleasing performance. The program consisted of its
usual classical and light numbers, along with a couple of novelties. As customary, the Glee Club played to a good
house. Leaving the campus about 3:00 o'clock in the afternoon, the members planned to inspect the aluminum mills, as passes
had been obtained. This was, however, found impractical, and the club toured the site of the dam on the Yadkin
River, which is one of the highest in the country. A trip to Statesville has been planned for Friday, April
20th, but has not been definitely arranged as yet.

Cham Staff for Coming Year Selected by Browne McQueen
Following the annual spring elections, the newly elected editor of The Chameleon, W. Browne McQueen, has completed the appointments which
establish the associate editors that will compose his staff. The new staff is as follows: Editor-in-chief, W. Browne McQueen; short
story editor, Rough A. Boggess; reviews editor, James G. Johnson; essay editor, Robert Covington; poetry editor, Frank Hall. In addition
to the above staff, there will be four or possibly five assistants. These have not as yet been appointed and
will probably not be finally appointed until the opening of the term next fall. The business staff of The Chameleon
is under the direction of the business manager, who was recently appointed by the Board of Publications of the college.
His complete staff has not been given for publication at this time. The associate editors of the staff, as well
as the editor, are all members of the honorary literary fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, and all from the class of '29.
Rough A. Boggess was a member of the present staff of The Chameleon, serving as essay editor during the present
year, after publishing a number of his works in the magazine during his Sophomore year. He is a member of
Sigma Delta social fraternity.

Johnny Bachmar, '25, of Rome, Ga., recently tied the amateur golf course record at Sedgefield, Greensboro. His score was 70
for the 18 holes. The other holder of the mark for that course is Tully D. Blair, amateur champion of
the Carolinas.

They say P-A. is the world's largest seller. I don’t doubt it, nor do I wonder why. Just open a
tidy red tin and get that full fragrance of Nature’s noblest gift to pipe-smokers. Then tuck a load in the
business-end of your old jimmy-pipe. Now you’ve got it—that taste—that Lead-me-to-it, Gee-how-I-like-it taste! Cool as a condition. Sweet as making
it up. Mellow and satisfying. Try this mild, long-burning tobacco, Fellows. I know you'll like it.

PRINCE ALBERT — the national joy smoke!
