THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1928 —— ALUMNI PERSONALS

Friends of J. K. Morrison, ’16, now located at Montclair, N. J., will be grieved to learn of the death
of his brother, William Morrison, manager of the J. K. Morrison Wholesale Grocery Co., at his home in Statesville, on
April 26th, following an illness of several weeks.

M. W. Trawick, graduate of Davidson in the class of ’25, and two present Davidson students, G. S. Brooks and
A. H. McPhaul, were recently elected to membership in the North Carolina Academy of Science, at its meeting in Chapel
Hill. Sixty-one new members were elected at that time.

Dr. J. C. Rowan, '04, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Concord, N. C., preached the baccalaureate sermon before
the graduating class of the Cornelius High School last Sunday evening. On the same date Dr. C. M. Richards, '92,
head of the Biblical department at the College, preached the baccalaureate sermon before the Huntersville High School. Other Davidson alumni
who have addressed the graduating classes of North Carolina high schools include Dr. C. K. Brown, ’21, J. M. Appleby,
’26, and Harllee Branch, Jr., ’27.

Announcement has just been received at the College of the birth, on April 25th, of little Dorothy Patricia, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Harris, of Charlotte. Mr. Harris was a member of the class of '27.

Among the alumni present last Saturday for the Davidson-University of South Carolina track meet and Junior Speaking festivities were: W.
O. Green, Wade Leggette, W. M. Treverton, John C. Fowler and R. L. Mitchell, all of the class of '27;
Kenneth Lewis and W. A. McAulay, of the class of '25; Dave Fleming, of the class of '29; John I.
Smith, of the class of '24; John R. Schenck, of the class of '22; Wick Black, of the class of
’26; R. T. Littlejohn and O. J. Allison, of the class of ’25; and Warren Smith, of the class of
’28.

J. M. McFadden, ’22, who is teaching and coaching at the University of South Carolina, accompanied the Gamecock cinderpath team
on its recent trip to Davidson. Harllee Bordeux and Claude Allen, both of the class of ’27, were recent visitors
to the campus.

Col. Walter Joel Rawlinson, widely known and esteemed citizen, Confederate veteran, and one of the oldest citizens of Rock Hill,
S. C., died on April 24th, at his home in the South Carolina city. Two of his sons, Walter Barnes
and T. Caldwell, are alumni of Davidson College in the classes of '12 and ’01, respectively.

Rev. B. B. Shankle, ’11, pastor of the Lee Park Presbyterian Church, at Monroe, has accepted a call to the
Beatty Memorial Church, of Lenoir, and will leave Monroe at once for his new pastorate.

Rev. A. A. McLean, '06, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Lenoir, N. C., was recently elected president of
the board of trustees of the Lees-McRae Institute, of which Edgar Tufts, ’22, is superintendent, and a number of other
Davidson alumni are trustees.

Cecil Dew, ’22, has been confined to his bed at the Cragmont Sanitorium since January 24th, and will probably remain
there for several weeks more until he has fully recovered from a recent nervous breakdown. Friends and classmates will be
grieved to learn of his illness.

C. W. Angle, '18, president of the North Carolina Associated General Contractors, was one of the two principal speakers at
the monthly meeting of the Charlotte Builders’ Association, at the Manufacturers’ Club.

L. B. Elliott, '18, is a patient of the Lowrance Hospital, at Mooresville, recovering from a recent operation.

Joe Bowers, ex-’29, who has been at the New York office of the American Tobacco Company for the past two
years, sailed last Monday from New York for the Barbadoes, West Indies, where he will take charge of the company’s
interests in that place for the next six months. Mr. Bowers was a recent visitor to North Carolina and to
the College.

Sixteen classes are planning to have special reunions at the approaching commencement of Davidson College, and the alumni office is
now in the midst of preparations for their entertainment whileon the campus. Dr. Porter Vinson, '99, member of the permanent
staff at Mayo’s Clinic, Rochester, Minn., was a recent visitor to the College and to his sister, Miss Maude Vinson,
a resident of the village.

Numerous inquiries are coming to the office, and officials have been gratified over the outlook for the largest group of
alumni ever to attend a Davidson commencement. According to the new schedule of class reunions, three groups will return—1884, 1885,
1886 and 1887; 1903, 1904, 1905 and 1906; and 1922, 1923, 1924 and 1925. The 1878 men will have their
fiftieth reunion, and the class of 1927 will return for its first gathering. Besides these, the 1873 men desire to
have their fifty-fifth reunion, and the class of 1893, which would have returned under the old every five-year plan, are
going ahead and will have a reunion—their thirty-fifth.

Three major group banquets are being planned, and banquets for the other classes will probably be arranged. Monday night was
first suggested for these affairs, but so many of the alumni are business men that they cannot afford to spend
four days at Davidson, and for that reason it is practically settled that these will be on Tuesday night before
the literary societies meet.

One of the dormitories will be reserved for the alumni, who will be arranged in it according to classes—the 1884-1887
men on the first floor, the 1903-1906 on the second, and the 1922-25 and 1927 alumni on the third. The
usual essentials will be in each room, and the alumni office will again see that the visitors are comfortable during
their visit to the campus.

Among the older alumni who have already said they will return are Rev. G. L. Petrie, D.D., '59; Dr. J.
J. Stringfellow, '60; Rev. E. P. Davis, D.D., '73; Rev. R. P. Smith, D.D., '73; George Bryan, '78; Dr. D.
C. Mebane, '78; Rev. G. L. Robertson, D.D., '78; Dr. J. A. Hodges, '78. Special invitations are being extended to
every alumnus before 1878 to return to the commencement.

Announcement has just been received at the College of the marriage of Edward A. O'Neal, '25, to Miss Mildred Pruett,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Bennett W. Pruett, at the home of the bride, in Anniston, Ala., on Saturday, April
25th. Mrs. O'Neal is a graduate of Converse College and a popular resident of Anniston. Her father is president of
the Anniston National Bank. Mr. O'Neal, a graduate of Davidson, is now prominently connected with the Federal Phosphorus Company, with
headquarters in Anniston.

Dr. W. Y. Sayad, '17, now practicing at Miami, Fla., was recently initiated into honorary membership in the Omicron Delta
Kappa fraternity, and spent two days at the College as a visitor.

CREDENZA, $300.00

New ORTHOPHONIC VICTROLA
All Models in Stock---Easy Terms
ANDREW’S MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
The Finest Musical Instrument in the World
Prices $95 to $1,000
NEW RECORDS EVERY FRIDAY

Blindfolded in a scientific test of leading cigarettes, Mrs. Reginald C. Vanderbilt selects OLD GOLD.

"I wonder if one can really tell the difference, when blindfolded," was my first thought when invited to make this
test. "After smoking the four brands, as they were handed to me one after another, I discovered there was one
that was noticeably smoother than the others and richer in taste. This proved to be an OLD GOLD. I hope
I shall be able to buy them in Paris... they are surprisingly free from any trace of throat irritation and
have a delightful aroma which to me is very important."

How Test Was Made
Mrs. Vanderbilt was blindfolded, and, in the presence of two responsible witnesses, was given one each of the four leading
cigarettes to smoke... To clear the taste, coffee was served before each cigarette... Mrs. Vanderbilt was unaware of the identity
of these cigarettes during the test... After smoking the four cigarettes, Mrs. Vanderbilt was asked to designate by number her
choice... She immediately replied: "Number 3"... which was OLD GOLD.

Why can you pick them in the dark? Because they're made from the heart-leaves of the tobacco plant.
