Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, September 20, 1928.

ALUMNI

Davidson Alumnus Has Been Elected President of Presbyterian College

Rev. John McSween, '08, Has Already Started His Duties

HAS BEEN VERY ACTIVE

He Has Accepted This Post, Recognizing a Monumental Task Ahead—Humbleness is Characteristic

Davidson College alumni have long been renowned as leaders in education, but in the past decade considerable reflection has been
cast upon this institution by the election of several of its alumni to posts of prime importance—to the leadership of
colleges, universities, and seminaries. The latest addition to Davidson's “hall of fame” in the educational world is Rev. John McSween,
'08, former pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church of Anderson, S. C., who has been elected as president of the
Presbyterian College of South Carolina. He has accepted this post and has started duties incident to his new position.

Shortly after his election and acceptance, a full-page feature article was devoted to the new president of P. C., extracts
of which follow:

“The Rev. Mr. McSween finished Davidson in the class of 1908, receiving his B. S. degree. Upon his graduation, he
returned to Timmonsville and was associated with his father in the mercantile business for a period of two years.

“He soon, however, heard the call of the ministry, an urge which he felt early in life. He attended Columbia
Theological Seminary in 1913, and later did special work at the University of South Carolina. An ardent lover of athletics
in all of its forms, Mr. McSween took part in several sports, but was outstanding in baseball.

“After finishing his work at the University of South Carolina, he did post-graduate work at a biblical seminary in New
York. His first ministerial assignment was in western North Carolina in connection with the Lees-McRae Institute for Boys, and in
addition to this work, served nine or ten mountain churches as pastor.

“He later accepted a call to the Presbyterian Church at Dillon, where he served until 1916, when he was called
as chaplain of the United States army and was sent to the Mexican border. Upon his return and the outbreak
of the World War and America’s entry into it, he enlisted for service. He served in France for a period
of 22 months, returning in April, 1919.

“Immediately following his discharge, Mr. McSween took up duties as pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Rowland, N. C., where
he served until he became pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Clemson College, S. C. He remained there from 1923
until 1925, the year he came to Anderson as pastor of the Central Church.”

The feature article gave in full Mr. McSween’s letter of acceptance. Perhaps no better criterion to the true character of
the new Presbyterian College pastor could be obtained than by reading his letter to the board of trustees. In it,
he recognized the monumental task ahead, pledged his wholehearted efforts to the institution, and throughout there was a prominent strain
of humility.

A personal, intimate insight can be gained from the following tribute appearing in the article:

“‘Parson’ John, as he is affectionately known to his very intimate friends, and they are legion, is a man of
many attainments, including the ability to ‘talk with crowds and keep his virtue, or walk with kings and not lose
the common touch.’ He has the ability to ‘know’ people. Although he meets hundreds he has never before seen, he
is not the type to shake hands half a dozen times with each person and express the usual happiness over
the introduction. He is a clean sportsman, but a hard fighter. That is characteristic of him in all of his
endeavors. He is full of enthusiasm for an enterprise if he believes in it, but he possesses the courage of
his convictions and is unafraid.”

TWO DAVIDSON MEN TO BE IN CONGRESS AT COMING SESSION

W. F. Stevenson, ’85, and J. B. Clark, ’05, to be Representatives

Alumni Personals

Mr. and Mrs. Page Harris, of Forest Hills, announce the birth of a son. Mrs. Harris is a member of
the class of 1925.

FORMER R-NOMINATED

Dr. H. C. Hammond, '95, Located After Three-Day Search

Both Received Overwhelming Majorities Over Other Nominees—Nomination Equivalent to Election

HAD PARALYSIS STROKE

C. K. Marshall, Jr., '26, has been placed in charge of the N. C. State News Bureau. Mr. Marshall did
some corresponding for the state papers while a student at Davidson, and for the past year and a half has
been connected with the Associated Press in Raleigh.

Davidson College alumni will have two of its alumni in the House of Representatives in Washington, D. C., next year,
Hon. W. F. Stevenson, '85, of Cheraw, S. C., representing the fifth district of South Carolina, and Hon. J. Bayard
Clark, '05, of Fayetteville, representing the sixth district of North Carolina. Both men have been nominated in Democratic primaries, and
in the south this is equivalent to election. Mr. Stevenson has been representing the fifth district of South Carolina for
several terms.

Dr. C. G. Vardell, ’88, president of Flora Macdonald College, has completely recovered from his illness of the late spring
and has resumed his duties as head of this institution.

The net earnings of the Vick Chemical Company, of Greensboro, which is headed by H. S. Richardson, '06, were $2,423,412.12
for the past year. Lunsford Richardson, '14, is also connected with this concern. H. B. Yates, '15, was made a
vice-president at a meeting immediately following this report.

Hundreds of people in South Carolina...North Carolina and Georgia were greatly concerned during the latter part of July about the
disappearance of Dr. H. C. Hammond, '95, vice-president of Flora Macdonald College. Dr. Hammond left Red Springs to hold conferences
with individuals at several points, and was later to fill an appointment. When he did not appear after an extended
period without any notification, an investigation was started.

South-wide publicity was given the matter, and a physician in Columbia notified the authorities that Dr. Hammond was under his
care in a hospital in that city. He stated that he had been undergoing treatment for some time, and he
had never mentioned it because Dr. Hammond failed to request that he notify anyone of his illness.

Dr. Hammond had gone to Columbia and registered at a hotel there. Sometime during the night, he suffered a stroke
of paralysis and was unable to notify the authorities. It is believed that he attempted to reach the telephone, for
when he was found three days later, he was under the bed in a helpless condition. The hotel officials noticed
his absence and investigated with the results mentioned above.

The board of trustees of Flora Macdonald College have granted Dr. Hammond a year's leave of absence in which to
recuperate, and he is now at Shelbyville, Tenn., in the care of Mrs. A. H. Ruth. No late information has
been received concerning his condition, but Davidson alumni sincerely hope that he is fast recovering from his stroke of paralysis.

Mr. Clark will go to Washington in his official capacity. He defeated his opponent from Wilmington by an overwhelming majority.
He will succeed Congressman Homer Lyon, whose secretary has been J. A. Thomas, '18.

Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Williams, Jr., announce the birth of a daughter, Shirley Jean, on August 12th. Mr. Williams,
'25, is located at 528 Sixth St., Niagara Falls, N. Y.

Dr. J. P. Matheson, '90, president of the Davidson College Alumni Association during the past year, has been elected president
of the Charlotte Hospital Association, and also to the chairmanship of the North Carolina Foundation Committee.

Rev. Alexander Martin, D.D., '95, of Rock Hill, S. C., has been appointed a trustee of Winthrop College by Gov.
Richards, of South Carolina.

F. L. Jackson, '06, treasurer of Davidson College, has been appointed a member of the state board of accountancy by
Gov. A. W. McLean, of North Carolina.

Harllee Branch, Jr., assistant alumni secretary and assistant publicity director last year, is not returning to Davidson in that capacity
for 1928-1929, but has enrolled in the Lamar School of Law at Emory University, near Decatur, Ga. He will also
be connected with The Atlanta Journal as a reporter while going to school.

The alumni office will be operated upon a one-man basis again this year, with the exception of clerical assistance. A.
H. Shepherd, Jr., of Wilmington, a sophomore at Davidson, has been obtained to do stenographic work, and a number of
Davidson students will assist the secretary from time to time in sending our publicity matter and letters to Davidson alumni.

Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Fuller, Jr., of Durham, announce the birth of a son, June 24. Mr. Fuller is
in the class of 1914.
