4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 23, 1928

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN - Managing Editor
M. P. CRAWFORD - Managing Editor
R. WILSON - Athletic Editor
W. L. LINGLE - Feature Editor
F. C. WITHERS - Associate Editor
T. T. JONES - Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH - Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY - Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY - Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON - Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL - Assistant Business Manager
P. GARRISON - Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON - Circulation Manager
W. B. McGUIRE - Solicitor
H. M. McGAVOCK - Solicitor

Reporters’ Club
W. H. BAILEY - President
J. L. ELY - Vice-President
R. GRAHAM - Secretary-Treasurer
J. P. ANDERSON
R. W. McDERMOTT
W. H. BEST
W. B. BROWN
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D. MILLER
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. PRATT
R. F. JARRATT
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LONG
W. R. RAVE
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

EDITORIAL

BRAINS AND BRAWN

After a year’s research, the Carnegie Foundation has made its report concerning the collegiate athletes and non-athletes. The primary object
of the research was to attempt to ascertain if there is any relationship between the grades of participants in sports
and those who confine their collegiate extra-curricular activities to places other than the athletic field. As was to be expected,
the report insists at the beginning that it cannot be considered final, that only a limited field was studied, that
there were no common grounds of comparison and gives various other reasons; all of which means nothing since the report
itself does not attempt to prove anything, and the data that is presented shows no striking difference in the intellectual
prowess of the athletes and their less renowned brothers.

The most careful study made in the research was that of Columbia University’s men of brawn and its men of
supposed brains. Concerning these two groups there Dr. Howard J. Savage, director of the research, summarizes: “With respect to the
class of 1925 at Columbia College, those members who participated in sport and those who did not appear to be
of the same intelligence. On the basis of course grades, however, the athletes in their studies fell below the non-athletes.”
He further points out that the grades of the brawny men tend to gravitate toward the passing line, while the
brainy men kept a little above it. In the scholastic average of the two groups, the non-athletes led the athletes
by the difference between C and C plus.

All of the above proves absolutely nothing with regard to the advisability of abolishing intercollegiate athletics, which measure some few
have proposed. Neither is it definite enough to prove that the athletes are all men of superior intelligence, superior to
the non-athletes at any rate. The whole question is still wide open for all arguments and rash conclusions which have
marked the debates on this topic since the first intercollegiate contest was played.

Dr. Savage plans to make a much more comprehensive study of the whole situation during the coming year. Approximately 44
colleges and universities were covered in the first gathering of data, but this year the plans are to cover a
much wider field. Dr. Savage insists that by the co-operation of a number of colleges and universities in supplying comparable
data, “conclusions can be drawn to cover a much larger field and to reach a greater validity.” One can only
foretell doom for such an undertaking. The very magnitude of the field he intends to cover serves to diminish any
belief that one may have in the accuracy of such a report. A great task will be accomplished if he
can secure all the grades of all the athletes in the United States and compare them with the grades of
all the non-athletes; but unless these grades show a difference of more than seven, eight, or nine points no definite
conclusions with reference to the intelligence quotient of the subjects can be drawn. It will offer much data to be
used for material for debates which will prove absolutely nothing.

Whatever the report may be after the next compilation of material, athletes will continue to meet classes. They will continue
to play on the teams representing their respective institutions. The student body will continue to become greatly incensed when a
star is declared ineligible just prior to an important contest. If the directors of the Carnegie Foundation have as their
purpose the changing of any of the above facts, they are doomed only for failure. The only logical way for
the whole situation to be handled is for the individual institutions to study their own athletes and non-athletes, compile data
concerning them alone, draw conclusions whatever they may be; then proceed to make whatever rules and requirements concerning the intelligence
of men eligible for the varsity teams as they may deem necessary.

HOW ABOUT A DAD’S DAY?

There are very few times during the year when the parents of the students have the privilege of coming to
Davidson to see their sons, and there are no times when the parents are assured that there will be any
other fathers and mothers here. In this respect it seems that Davidson lacks something. It lacks a definite contact of
the institution and the parents of the students here, that is except twice a year when checks are passed. There
are a number of men here now whose fathers attended this school, and some their fathers before them. There should
be more contact particularly between these alumni and the college.

An annual event known as “Dad’s Day” has been developed at several institutions. Once a year, all the fathers of
the students in attendance at the institution at that time come to the school for one day; primarily to see
their sons, but also to know all of his son’s friends and their fathers. A spirit is thus created which
binds the old alumnus to his alma mater, and for those who are not alumni of the institution it makes
a closer contact with them than it could make in any other way. Some will insist that this smacks of
a prep school advertising for more boys, or attempting to bind the students with more rules and regulations through the
influence of their parents. But this is not the idea. It is merely to have a congenial get-together with the
primary object of friendship between the men here and their parents, as well as the parents of their friends.

It would not be feasible to attempt to devote a whole day to the plan some time within the school
year with no other attraction. It has been suggested, however, that at Commencement the seniors and their fathers have a
luncheon together. Or possibly assign one day of the exercises as Dad’s Day for the benefit of the parents as
well as for some of the alumni who do not have sons in school at the present time. Or this
plan could be developed to include all of those who stayed here for Commencement and wanted to have their fathers
here for the occasion.

If this plan could not be worked, some time in the spring on the occasion of some athletic contest on
the hill, the fathers could be invited back here and feted as the guests of the college and their sons
for a day. This would probably be more acceptable to the students since it would afford an opportunity for financial
reimbursement. It seems however, that some such plan should be tried at least once—if not nothing more than to prove
that it would be a failure. But if it could be pushed in the right way, and come to mean
a day full of significance and memory for those who have finished their college careers, it would mean one more
bond to tie closer together this venerable old school and the men it has graduated.

VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE

Last year six men were invited here by the Y. M. C. A. cabinet to make talks to the students
on the six general fields of activity a college student might enter after graduation. This idea was hailed by all
those interested in Davidson as well as by the students here. It wasa forward step for the entire school. This
year, however, strides have been taken which far eclipse those of last year. Besides the six big men slated for
big talks, there has been an excellent introductory speech and valuable discussion groups headed by capable men. These groups have
covered every possible phase of the sub-heads of the general divisions of the two vocations covered so far. Two general
types have been discussed.

Those who have decided to enter either of these two fields and failed to attend some of these discussion groups
have missed one of the most valuable parts of their college life. Every night during this week there has been
a talk by a leader in a particular type of a general field, and these talks have been excellent. For
four more weeks, this general plan is to be followed covering four other fields of activity. The Vocational Guidance Committee
of the “Y” cabinet is to be heartily commended for the work done in this line. The men chosen for
talks are men who appeal to the students, not only for their leadership in their activity but as real men.
There has not been derived from those who are far-sighted enough to attend. It is believed that the general tone
of the Institute will be kept up for the coming weeks. When one glances over the list of men selected
to make talks and lead discussions, he is assured of this fact. It should be impressed on every man here
that these meetings were planned and held for the benefit of the student body. The men who have not decided
definitely what field they will enter will benefit greatly by attending a number of these meetings. Those who have decided
definitely know the type of men who will speak and attend meetings outside of their own group. The value of
these meetings will be appreciated better after a year or so,—here before us some fail to see the real benefits
of them.

REJUVENATION

Apparently, the literary societies here at Davidson have become imbued with new life at last and are well on their
way to take the place they should dominate here on the campus. Increased interest in the activities of the societies,
regular attendance, and interesting programs all point to the fact that the forensic activities here have a firmer and stronger
hold on life than has been evidenced in the last five years. To a number of students, the above statements
mean nothing, but to others, they mean a great deal. To the alumni who worked in the societies when they
were here and are interested in them, the statements mean that a tradition at Davidson cannot be discarded lightly. The
statements now may mean something, however, and three months from now the societies will be in that apathetic state from
which they were aroused by the proddings of the local circle of Omicron Delta Kappa. It must be emphasized that
this new life of the societies will mean nothing unless more underclassmen will become interested in forensic activities. With these
men rests the responsibility of keeping up the work and the interest in the organizations. At present, there are a
number of seniors attending the meetings regularly. But unless a number of juniors are interested actively, the interest of these
seniors will mean nothing. The great fault of the societies in the past few years has been that upperclassmen have
failed to take the proper interest in them. This has been removed for the present but whether or not it
will be lasting remains in the hands of the juniors, sophomores, and freshmen. The societies are no longer boring, drab,
monotonous meetings, but now have carefully prepared, interesting programs. This may sound like ballyhoo to men who have attended meetings
a year or so ago; they will be convinced otherwise, however, if they attend one of the meetings of either
society. The active members of the societies are working now, and if a few men in the student body will
cooperate, the efforts of these men will not be in vain.

Getting out a weekly paper is no picnic. If we print jokes, folks say we are silly; if we don’t,
they say we are too serious. When we publish original copy, they say we lack variety. If we clip from
other papers, they say we are too lazy to write. If we stay in the office, we ought to be
out hunting up news! When we hunt up news, we are not attending to business in the office. If we
wear old clothes, we’re stingy. If we wear new ones, they are not paid for. Like as not, someone will
say we swiped this article from another newspaper. We did.

Numerous schools have been holding elections recently in an attempt to discover the school’s choice for president. All of that
will fade into insignificance soon, when the collegiate politicians start their balls rolling. Now that Mr. Tillett has subsided, bumming
is still as popular as it ever was. After Lingle writes an article similar to Elsie Robinson, we suppose he
will start giving health hints and advice to the love-lorn.

BY THE QUAY
By Dr. Arold Sea Drown, B. V. D.

Quayside Duckings

Art is but colors,
Dashed from out the air,
Each the other follows,
From hither, yon and there,
Assembled by the painter
Upon the canvas bare,
Some strong, some dim, some fainter,
And lo! the picture’s there.

Cold stone, so lifeless, dead,
Or else it may be marble,
That nothing but the resurrection,
Could ever raise its head.
But as the sculptor’s chiseled it,
A body fair appears,
And life comes to it bit by bit,
And lo! a monument of years.

One day with paints of varied hue,
I sought to paint a picture.
One day with marble cold as dew,
I sought to mold a statue.
But then I found that art is not,
So simple as it seems.
For in the artist’s golden pot,
Is a soul of mystic dreams.

A. S. D.

The Quayside Sandbox

And now college boys and girls, don’t forget that next Friday night is the night of the biggest gang meeting
yet. Meet down at the quay and there'll be rowboats enough to take care of you all. Proceedings rain or
shine and admission (and exit) absolutely free to every wide pants willy and co-ed in the place. But of course,
if you want to leave you'll have to swim.

Ellen of West, you forgot to send us your full name and room number. Quick Jeremiah, make waste paper of
it. My regrets Ellen, try again. Wheedle-whooddle! Two more members of the Gang from Mount Mourne. What you doing way
up there Jenny? Has Alexia decided to take a short journey Fanny? Well hop to it ’ol Davidsonian and hi-jack
’em to the students.

To Converse

O’er all the universe,
I may traverse,
Thru lands diverse,
I wander perverse,
But I do not curse,
For it’s not so worse,
Since my toils reimburse
When I get to Converse.

To Queens

Of all the scenes,
That I have seen,
Wherever I’ve been
The most like my dreams,
Is my true love at Queens.

“Lobster”

I chortle! I laffter! I guffaw!
Ha, ha, He, he!! Well of all the things.
What do you know about that.
Seventeen in love with sweet sixteen again.
Now isn’t that just what you would expect of a dear little freshman on Valentine’s Day. Go get ’em you
little old shell-fish. I'll bet you're some good looker with the ladies. Grrrr—!

Inquisition

My dearest Doctor X. Y. Z.
I’m plainly worried, can’t you C?
It’s all about your wonderful name,
And not that I want any writing fame.
I can't find out your degree
Those little letters, B. V. D.
What do they mean? Please tell me,
For I like you and you like me.

Mount Mourne, N. C.

Well now you little smart Alex, you know very well that somebody might think I was conceited if I told
you what those little letters meant. But really now they might mean Doctor of Bad Verse. Ha! Wasn't that a
fast one.

I went up to Morganton the other day,
You know that’s where the shut-ins stay,
It’s really a nice place if you've never been.
And some of the nicest people you’ve ever seen.
I didn’t know then how nice it was.
But I like it now, you see, I suppose.
There’s a beautiful girl I met up here.
A shut-in that I wanted to cheer.
I cheered her quite a bit and then——
Well you know how it happens when——
Anyway I think I’m here to stay.
For she’s my girl—Hip! Hip! Hooray!

N. U. T.
Morganton, N. C.
