THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1928

HAMPTON INSTITUTE QUARTET PRESENTS SPLENDID PROGRAM

Hampton College Quartet rendered a pleasing program of negro spirituals in Shearer Hall, Friday, March 2nd. A large audience listened
to the songs with keen interest and deep appreciation. The voices of all the singers were good but considerable praise
fell to the lot of J. H. Wainwright, bass. Mr. G. F. Ketchum and Mr. R. O. Purves, teachers at
the training school, accompanied the quartet and made short talks between the various groups of spirituals.

The Hampton Quartet returned to give a much varied program from that presented here last year. Only one change has
been made in the members who compose the quartet. This year G. H. White sang second tenor, while all the
other men returned for their second time. W. E. Creekmur sang first tenor; J. Thomas, baritone, and Aytal Wainwright, bass.
Dr. T. W. Lingle introduced Mr. G. F. Ketchum, who in turn introduced the quartet.

During the short intermissions of the singing, Mr. Ketchum spoke of the songs sung by the negroes and the natural
ability of obtaining harmony in their voices. He stated that in place of long hours of practicing in a group,
the singers went off alone and composed their various parts, which would be in perfect harmony when sung. He said
further that the only races whose voices have been found to blend well without practice are the Ethiopian and Slavic
tribes.

Mr. R. O. Purves made the final talk of the evening. He gave a brief account of the work done
at Hampton Institute. The negroes there, he said, are given training for the leadership of their race. There are at
the school this year 960 students, and to this number is taught the principles of business, agriculture, economics, and other
necessary subjects. He also stated that a number of graduates of the institute are now in various parts of North
Carolina teaching school.

The program of the evening was as follows:
1. Hampton Quartet—“Ezekiel Saw the Wheel;” “Give That Old-Time Religion;” “Roll, Jordan, Roll!” “Walk in Jerusalem.”
2. Mr. Ketchum—Talk.
3. Hampton Quartet—“I Done Open My Mouth to the Lord;” “I Got To Lie Down;” “I Ain’t Gonna Study War
No Mo’;” “I Ain’t Gonna Grieve My Lord No Mo’.”
4. Mr. Ketchum—Talk.
5. Hampton Quartet—“Heb’ben;” “My Soul Is a Witness For My Lord;” “Massa Dear;” “Hard Trials.”
6. Mr. Ketchum—Talk.
7. Hampton Quartet—“Go Down Moses;” “Listen to the Lamb;” “Keep a Inchin’ Along.”
8. Mr. Purves—Talk.
9. Hampton Quartet—“Ride On Jesus;” “You Gonna Reap Jus’ What You Sow;” “Swing Low Sweet Chariot.”

SUMMER SESSION
(Continued from page 1)
occupy the same room and $15.00 if student rooms alone. Board may be secured at about $25 per month. The
charges made by the college for the term of six weeks include a registration fee of $5.00 and tuition of
$25.00. Registration should be made as early as possible, and application for admission, together with a statement of the course
desired and registration fee of $5.00, should be sent to the Director of the Summer Sessions. All selection of courses
should be completed by June 1st, and applicants for admission after this date may not be able to have the
range of selection of courses granted to those who register earlier.

FRENCH AUTHOR DELIVERS
(Continued from page 1)
three of their bodies were ever found. M. Gos was a personal acquaintance of King Albert of Belgium, who was
quite a mountain enthusiast. He also made the acquaintance of Mr. Coolidge when the former visited the Alps. He said
that Mr. Coolidge was a good mountaineer. Switzerland has laid off an area as a national park in which they
have placed animals which are only found in Switzerland. Among these are the chamois, mountain goats of certain types, and
many other mountain animals.

The various fraternity houses until time a list of its members. Entertainments sponsored by the Junior class Converse Glee Club
to provide entertainment on the weekend of Mar. 17. The Intercollegiate Association was present at Davidson Thursday and Friday and
held student discussions on various phases of theProhibition Question Now Confronting Amer- Junior Class Sponsors Concert By Girls Club on
Annual Tour

"Forty of the Fairest" Promise Great Program for Davidson Students

The feature entertainment for the various house parties of the weekend of March 17th is the performance to be given
by the Converse College Glee Club, in Shearer Hall, at 7:30 p.m. This will be preceded by a dance in
Charlotte Friday night, March 16th, and will be followed by a dance in Mooresville at 9:30. The Converse Glee Club
is composed of 40 of the fairest damsels of Converse College, 20 being blondes and the other 20 brunettes. No
one could possibly fail to be satisfied with such a combination of the fairer sex.

The club will arrive by bus in the middle of the afternoon. They will be entertained for the performance, which
will start promptly at 7:30 in order to be over in time for the dance in Mooresville at 9:30. Anyone
seeking information as to who is in the club should consult Nelson Myers, who has the details.

This is the third of a series of interesting events for the purpose of raising money for Junior Speaking, the
other two being the magician, who was here last fall, and more recently the G.C.W. Glee Club of Greensboro. The
Junior class is also to sponsor a three-act play given by the Dramatic Club in conjunction with the Junior Class,
about March 29th or 30th.

Mr. Guthrie Gives Prohibition Talks

Mr. Paul N. Guthrie, Field Secretary of the Intercollegiate Prohibition Association, has been giving talks on the prohibition question now
confronting America and the world. Mr. Guthrie is a graduate of the University of Tennessee and has spent some time
as assistant secretary of the Y.M.C.A. at the University of Georgia. This past summer he was a member of the
Intercollegiate Summer Service Group in New York and was engaged in social service work there. He has had special training
for his present task and is now in the midst of a tour through the colleges and universities of the
South.

Mr. Guthrie found Davidson men anxious to discuss matters relating to prohibition and was much pleased with his visit here.
This, the 85th campus which he has visited in the last five months, compared favorably with any visited on the
tour. According to Mr. Guthrie, the future of prohibition is in the hands of the college students of today. If
the latter can be aroused in favor of prohibition’s benefits, the future will take care of itself. A mass of
misinformation has hurt the cause of “drys” and “wets” alike. Books like Irving Fisher's "Prohibition at Its Worst" help to
clear away many prevalent misconceptions.

Mr. Guthrie left here Friday evening for Greensboro, where he will speak at N.C.C.W. He will arrive in Washington headquarters
in about two weeks, after which he will make a tour of New England educational institutions.

PRITCHETT AND HALL (Continued from page 1)

...was assembled for the occasion. All the speakers were good and the progress was well received by those present.

LONG LIST OF HONOR (Continued from page 1)

...regard to his class, only an alphabetically arranged list from the four classes was available. The former practice has been
discontinued, the Registrar stated. Honor Roll for the first semester, 1927-28, arranged alphabetically is as follows:

Akers, J. M.
Albright, C. J.
Arbuckle, H. B., Jr.
Bradford, W. B.
Brown, F. R.
Brown, S. Y.
Burgiss, A. F.
Davidson, C. G.
Dickson, B. W.
Dillard, T.
Dumas, W. L.
Edelman, A. T.
Fry, G. A.
Gilmour, M. T.
Graham, J. R.
Hall, F.
Hayes, R. B.
Hill, W. E.
Howard, D.
Kane, R. R.
Kirkland, L.
Knox, J. B.
Lothery, T. E., Jr.
McAlister, J. S.
McRae, C. F.
McConnell, E. Riggs.
Marsh, E. F.
Martin, D. F.
Miller, F. D.
Moriarty, J. B.
Moye, E. P.
Murchison, J. M.
Ohsiek, C. A.
Preston, J. F.
Pritchett, W. K.
Ragin, W. C.
Richards, E.
Rusk, Dean.
Stephenson, R. M.
Wiley, S. S.
Williams, J. W. H. D. H.

Ain’t It a Grand and Glorious Feelin'

By BRIGGS

MORNING AND TERRIBLE!

WHEN YOUR THROAT TICKLES WHEN YOU GET UP IN THE MORNING AND YOUR CIGARETTE TASTES TERRIBLE!

AND THEN A FRIEND TELLS YOU THAT YOU'RE SMOKING THE WRONG BLEND - AND YOU HAVE MORE COUGHS THAN A
SECOND HAND CAR HAS RATTLES

AND YOU SWITCH TO OLD GOLD AND FIND THERE ISN'T A COUGH IN A CARLOAD!

OH-H-H- BOY! AIN'T IT A GR-R-R-RAND AND GLOR-R-R-RIOUS FEELIN'?!?

AND YOU'RE BEGINNING TO FEEL THAT YOU OUGHT TO CUT DOWN ON YOUR CIGARETTES
