4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1928

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

BOYCE MARTIN ........................................ Editor-in-Chief
M. P. CRAWFORD .................................... Managing Editor
A. N. BROWN ........................................... Managing Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT ................................... Managing Editor
J. B. MORTARITY .................................... Managing Editor
G. R. ISAACS ............................................. Athletic Editor
R. A. WILSON ........................................... Feature Editor
W. L. LINGLE ........................................... Associate Editor
F. C. WOODS ............................................. Associate Editor
T. T. JONES ............................................... Associate Editor
L. C. WADSWORTH ............................... Alumni Editor
R. C. GRADY ............................................. Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. S. ABERNETHY ................................. Assistant Business Manager
S. J. ALLISON .......................................... Assistant Business Manager
W. M. POWELL ........................................ Assistant Business Manager
P. GARRISON ........................................... Subscription Manager
B. W. DICKSON ....................................... Circulation Manager
S. W. MORRIS .......................................... Solicitor
W. B. McGUIRE ....................................... Solicitor
E. H. McCALL .......................................... Solicitor
W. H. BAILEY .......................................... President
J. L. ELY ................................................... Vice-President
R. GRAHAM ............................................ Secretary-Treasurer
P. ANDERSON
R. W. McDERMOTT
W. H. BEST
W. B. McQUEEN
E. T. EDELMAN
F. D. LEE
E. S. HEEFNER
V. A. MILTON
M. K. HENDERSON
C. M. PRATT
R. F. JARRATT
D. T. STOKES
F. W. JOHNSTON
W. R. TREVERTON
Z. V. LONG
W. R. WEAVER
J. P. McBRYDE
B. A. WILSON

AN EXPLANATION

From the opinions expressed in the columns of several collegiate journals in and around the state, it seems that representatives
of these various schools have an erroneous idea as to the reasons why fraternities here at Davidson are to move
back on the campus next year. Some columnists have expressed the opinion that it was a disciplinary move and rejoiced
that their beloved institutions were so far above such “prep-school” ideas. It would be well to clear the situation up
a bit by giving the real reasons why the fraternities will be grouped together next year with no men living
in fraternity houses.

In a small school such as Davidson, it is essential that the student body be welded together as a single
unit. With only six hundred and fifty men, there is no room for any schisms in the student body. It
was discovered that after two or three years with the fraternities off the campus, there were two distinct groups developing
here. In the fraternities, it was noticeable particularly that the chapters were no longer bound together as a single unit
but were divided into those who lived on the campus and those who lived in the houses. It was evident
that this situation should be corrected since the very essence of the spirit of the school seemed to be gradually
dwindling away. There was no longer the whole-hearted cooperation in the student body which had been noticeable prior to the
time the fraternities moved away from the campus. Even though some object to the abstract term “school spirit,” it must
be said that the spirit of the institution was not the same as it had been in former years.

With the above criticisms before them, the Board of Trustees decided to move the fraternities back to the campus. There
was no mention of anything relating to any reprimand of the various chapters concerned. No action of any of the
fraternities had been such as to warrant any measure of this type. It was with the interests of the students
and the college as well that the Trustees believed it best to move the fraternities to the campus. Naturally, there
has been some criticism of their action. There are some who believe that the fraternities and the institution will accomplish
more if the chapters had been left off the campus. There are equally as many supporters of the opposite side
of the cause.

The proposed plans for a fraternity court of chapter halls is a novel idea. Whether this will prove better than
any other arrangement remains to be seen. It is certain that this seems to be the only solution for the
peculiar problem which exists here.

POLITICS

There exists here at Davidson a situation differing slightly from the majority of institutions over the country. This is the
political situation. At present, there are no political parties or any open politics whatsoever, but there has been some beneath
the surface. For the past few years, this seems to have been growing. No candidate is allowed to stand before
a group of students, state his platform, and explain why they should vote for him. There is no definite rule
or law against it, but the man who did it would find his votes indeed scarce when the ballots had
been counted. However, the friends of this man talk as much as they please, drum up votes if possible, and
in general explain why their candidate is the best one in the field. We are indeed thankful that there is
not much of this here, but it seems to be increasing.

The whole situation, however, is a little compromising. A definite step towards the adoption of either the completely open politics
or the completely closed type should be taken. At Emory, at Florida, and at a number of other institutions in
the south, there are two and sometimes three parties who have candidates on every ticket. Regular conventions are held, campaign
speeches made, etc. This would not be feasible at Davidson. With a small student body, there is no room for
any division. It is doubtful whether this type of politics is best in colleges. Certainly, it would not be the
solution to the problem here.

It seems, therefore, that there should be a tradition created here that no man would talk to another concerning the
respective merits of a candidate for any office. This is the type of politics used at the University of Richmond.
The students do not talk among themselves about the elections, this being one of the traditions of the institution. This
would certainly be better than the plan used here. Unless the political campaigns are wide open or completely closed, there
is an element of uneasiness throughout the entire student body. One rather hates to hear a man touted for a
certain position, for one thinks of his opponent, who probably doesn’t know that friends of this man are working for
him. With the student-body election beginning within the next two weeks, it would be well to think over this matter
and attempt to promote a different system here.

The usual ballyhoo of election time is to admonish the voters to select the right man. This is foolish unless
the voter is allowed to decide undisturbed the man he seriously believes to be the best candidate. In the closed
system of politics, the man decides alone, without consultation with anyone else. It seems, therefore, that this system is certainly
the best. The only trouble with the closed system is that of firmly rooting it in the mind of every
student here that he will under no circumstances talk to anyone else about any candidate. But this obviously cannot be
accomplished without the whole-hearted cooperation of the entire student body. If this could be done, Davidson would create a tradition
that should prove in future years to be one of the most valuable that it possesses.

It was late on a December evening. The sun dropped behind a bank of clouds. A freshman noticed all that.
In fact, he had noticed everything about the outside world for the better part of an hour as he sat
dejectedly before his table. Before that, he had observed the interior of the room minutely; the white walls, the skew
pennant, a memory book lying dust-covered in the corner. But now he looked out of the window as dusk settled,
for students were passing below, directing their steps toward the post office and supper. Some were freshmen themselves and oddly
many wore coats and Sunday suits, uncustomary to say the least. A rollicking, self-sufficient air seemed to enclose the be-coated
ones. The solitary gazer strained his eyes and observed more closely. Yes, there was something on the lapel of each
passing freshman coat. A white star gazed up at its heavenly prototypes from one, a blue diamond shone forth from
another, a bronze triangle from still another. The six o'clock bell banged near the window and the lone onlooker rose,
slipped on his sweater, and started down the stairs. Designers, he observed, are to be commended for omitting lapel button-holes
from sweaters.

“I hear that you get your haircuts at a barber college.”
“You bet, college men should patronize college men.”—Notre Dame Juggler.

“I would like to marry your daughter.”
“But, my boy, she has a good home.”
“Oh, I’ll let her keep that.”—Arizona Kittykat.

Henry says that he spends all his spare time reading books, of which he has a complete set—Yale Record.Of the
biggest questions to be decided by every department store is how often to hold its annual sale.—Scream. Collegiate Comment

At the University of Akron, the Student Council has recently passed a disenfranchisement rule concerning freshman regulations. The freshmen are
not allowed to vote or hold main offices if they are found guilty of not wearing their caps and armbands
or parking their cars on the campus.

The seniors at Furman University, Greenville, S. C., will wear derbies this year as their mark of distinction. They have
decided not to carry canes.

At the University of Maryland next year, there will be no captain of the football team until after the schedule
is completed. The coach will appoint a man as temporary captain before each game, and at the end of the
season, the varsity squad will elect the captain purely as an honor. This action was taken because of the influence
of fraternity politics.

According to an ancient record found in the library of William and Mary College, the institution was founded, first, to
educate the young persons in view of learning and good morals; secondly, to supply the church, especially of Virginia, with
good ministers; and thirdly, to instruct the Indians in the Christian religion.

Twenty-seven men have signed up for the checker tournament at the University of Alabama. Last fall, a horseshoe tournament was
conducted there. It seems also that we have heard that they had a good football team there once upon a
time.

Randolph-Macon Woman’s College met Washington and Lee in a debate on the subject of the failure of co-education. The Sun-Dial
says the debate was “largely in the lighter vein.”

Plans are underway for the annual “razz” sheet at Lafayette College. The local chapter of Pi Delta Epsilon, national journalistic
fraternity, endeavors to strike at some of the petty foibles of the campus.

At the University of Texas, there is a tradition to which all of the students adhere. Before the classroom for
final examinations, a few minutes of organized cheering is indulged in. The theory is that the cheering will pep the
men up and also that they will be in no condition to do any cheering after the ordeal.

Would-be athletes at Agnes Scott are in the midst of an exciting water-polo tournament. Teams from the various classes are
represented.

“Hell-Week,” a traditional period of torture for fraternity freshmen at the University of Kansas, has been abolished. One of the
main reasons for such action was the arrest of some thirty men who were indulging in pre-initiation ceremonies in the
streets of the town. The students then decided to abolish the custom.

The Student Council at Lafayette College has delivered a telling blow to extravagance in college functions by a bill recently
passed in one of its sessions. This bill prohibited a charge of more than five dollars for each couple to
any dances sponsored by any organizations of the college.

A new club room and social center for the men at Guilford College was dedicated last week. The room was
provided for the purpose of offering adequate social activities for the students at Guilford.

Beta Beta Beta, national biological fraternity, has recently installed a chapter at Gettysburg College. Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary fraternity,
will install a circle there also sometime within the next month.

Haverford College is the only institution in the country which still supports cricket as an organized sport.

The Kentucky Intercollegiate Press Association held its second annual convention last week at the University of Kentucky. Nine institutions of
that state were represented.

Ten men were graduated from the Mississippi A. & M. College at midsemester. Eight of these men graduated in agriculture,
one from the engineering school, and one from the science school.

The Emory Glee Club has a contract for a two weeks’ engagement at the Coliseum theater of London during the
coming summer. A Kelley, ex-’30, is now a member of this organization.

Two fraternities at the University of Florida, Sigma Nu and Phi Delta Theta, have signed a contract to meet each
other in a football contest once a year for the next 99 years.

Sometime within the next year, three hundred students from Princeton University will go to Argentina for three months’ study. It
is expected that a like number of South American students will visit this country.

The paper is sponsored by the local chapter of Pi Delta Epsilon, national journalistic fraternity, and endeavors to strike at
some of the petty foibles of the campus.

Out of Bounds

It’s tiresome to be a columnist, even for a weekly college paper. In the first place, there’s nothing to write
about, and in the second, it is scarcely read even if it is narrated. To ape a nationally known writer
of the same avocation certainly offers the best outlet; but whom to ape? Should we follow the style of “the
world’s highest paid writer,” we face the certainty of having our opinions rendered invalid. If we indulge in a mimic
cry of McIntyre, there is the evident possibility of rousing personal ire because of ludicrous comment. And then if we
follow the style of a host of others, there is a more than even chance that our readers will not
recognize the parody. Really, we would rather turn this into a news column, but there again we are stumped, for
nothing ever happens at Davidson. The front page columns of this issue will testify to that. Day after day, the
same old grind issues forth with machine-like precision. Nothing ever happens at Davidson.

The two students faced each other, one a senior with a stern expression, the other a freshman of four weeks
standing with downcast eyes. Two test papers lay in the hands of the former—math papers scribbled with permutations, combinations, quadratics,
and cubes. “They are identical,” said the senior, “and, as I have said, there is ample proof that the other
boy is not guilty. Are you?” Silence, broken only by a shout directed toward a neighboring dormitory from the window
below. And then there was a tear. There’s always a tear in such situations, but this one splashed on the
hand of the accusing senior as the bewildered underclassman slumped down on the edge of the bed. The senior had
rehearsed exactly what to do when this happened. He knew it would happen, not from hearsay, but from personal experience.
In fact, he had played the opposite role back in prep school. Maxims of honor and Davidson integrity rushed through
his brain, but then he looked at the damp spot on the back of his hand and somehow he couldn’t
go on with it. Rather, he too sat down on the edge of the bed and put his arm around
the freshman’s shoulder. What he said doesn’t matter. Only this, that their hands met and a moment later the senior
was walking down dormitory row whistling.

Sophomores are goats, not in a literal sense of course, but figuratively speaking the axiom is inevitable. For it is
a certainty that no upperclassman respects either a sophomore’s opinions or actions, and it is equally true that freshmen do
not reverence them, as the court of control will testify. The truth of the assertion came clearly to one sophomore
as he listened to the March winds whistle about the corners of the dormitory during a rather bleak forenoon. Moreover,
he faced an excruciating physics laboratory within the hour. Save for the physics ordeal, perhaps this story would never have
been told, but the ordeal remained nevertheless. Long and thoughtfully, the sophomore pondered upon his inferior position and afterwards the
uselessness of college in general. What he wanted was life, action, adventure. In his pocket rested nine dollars and a
quarter, the remainder of a month’s allowance. Also, the physics imprisonment burdened his mind. Of course, it wasn’t logical, but
nevertheless the student in question pulled a dust-laden traveling bag from under his bed, stuffed it with essential clothing, mashed
the remainder into his trunk, and forthwith sallied out to the main highway. In fact, his mid-afternoon found him sitting
on a bridge rail twenty miles from the college hailing each passing motorist. A definite destination he knew not, only
what the Fates might bring him. The Fates were quick to act. The reverie was broken by the familiar voice
of the physics professor asking if he wished a ride to Davidson. Agitated not a little, the wanderer climbed into
the front seat of the car, told in glowing terms of a fictitious two days trip to a neighboring town.
Miles passed. The tank loomed in the distance. No, nothing ever happens at Davidson. Nothing!

Roamin’—“Glad to meet you. I put the shot myself.”—Penn. State Froth.
Roman—“My name is Artos. I am the famous bronze caster.”

“I hear Spence’s wife has left him for the third time in a year.”
“Very likely—I suppose you know she was formerly a cook.”—Ohio State Sun Dial.

“When I hear a woman sing, I clap my hands.”
“So do I—over my ears.”—Reserve Red Cat.

“Gus is a good kid, isn’t he?”
“Yes, if he had some brains he’d be a smart boy, if he knew how to use them.”

Yonkers—“Smoking in public! Why, I would sooner become intoxicated.”
Beautiful and Damned—“Who wouldn’t?”—Chaperon.
