March 22, 1929 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

BASEBALL SEASON OPENS HERE TODAY

CAT TRAX
As They Follow the Red and Black
By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Well, we are ready and waiting to hear Uncle Rube Brandon call the boys to the plate today. There are lots of good games, but baseball fills a niche all of its own, and there is no sound like the crack of a bat as it lines the old apple out. These Cadets from Oak Ridge Institute are not to be taken lightly. It is seldom that you find a prep school team good enough to engage a college varsity, but Davidson never has seen the time when she could whip Oak Ridge without plenty of trouble. It will be a good game.

Sort of look for Johnnie McInnis to take the hill in the opener. John went great guns last year and was the team’s mainstay in the box in addition to being a pretty sure hitter. He should have a big year again, and with Doc Kugler, Buck Marrow, “Bull” Meadows, Doc Henderson and Lefty Thompson to aid, the Wildcats pitching corps should rate with the best of them.

Captain Ratchford is another old salt who is due to click when the batting averages are figured up. Fred didn’t hit any too well last season, but his freshman and sophomore years he was a slugger from way back. This is his year to bust ’em again. Monk seems to be planning to send Jimmie Proctor to the outfield to keep Cap’n Fred and Whiz Miller company. Proc is too hard to grace the bench, and if he can move after those long flies and bounding grass cutters, he ought to be right in the outer gardens.

“We see by the papers” startling reports of Duke’s nine-man hurling staff, three of whom are sterling southpaws, Jenkins, who beat us 2-0 last year, Belue, and Hawkins. To last year’s Wildcat nine that would have been despairing news, for those Cats simply couldn’t lick a left-hander. It is a new tale now, however, and batters who hit from the port side are mighty scarce on Monk’s squad. Ratchford, McInnis, Miller, and Parrish seem to be the crop.

Some good omens for the coming weeks came to light in the track meet Saturday. Whittle was right and will be even better when he has varsity competition. The same old trouble pops up of getting seconds and thirds in these distance events. It will be hard to win big meets without a lot of these secondary places. Some of the boys may round into form and be good for ’em though. First meet is not far off. Cavaliers from Virginia hook up with the Cats on April 1, we believe it is. Flippen of Virginia broke the world’s record on the sixty-yard hurdles up New York way the other day. He knocked off one-fifth of a second. So that’s the kind of competition we’ve got to meet, is it?

Eddie Brietz, of the Charlotte Observer, the sports writer down there who came closest to being a Davidson booster, is leaving for bigger fields soon. Our best wishes go with Eddie. Everybody on his toes Saturday and show these high school track men a big time. Who knows but what there are future Wildcats in that bunch? Show ’em what the spirit of Davidson is.

PERSONNEL DIRECTOR
(Continued from page 1)

have and know and are not ambitious to use each achievement as a stepping stone to a still greater one. In closing Mr. Beck brought out very effectively the following fundamentals on which a man should shape his career: First, a plan; second, a purpose; third, perseverance and finally, a passion for righteousness. This final point brings out what Mr. Beck tries to inspire in all who come under his observation, the importance of integrity and character in everyday life as well as in business.

Peg: “Edith, you’re a regular old Midas.”
Edith: “Call me something else. I don’t know a thing about those Bible stories.”

Wildcats Primed to Meet Oak Ridge In Season’s First Game
Team Eager to Go as Time for Opener Approaches
MONK OPTIMISTIC
Several Positions Still Undecided — Cadets Have Usual Strong Team — Prospects for Wildcats Are Good

The erstwhile gloomy coach of Davidson College’s three major sports smiled slightly when asked today what he thought of this season’s baseball prospects with the opening game tomorrow, and replied, “Fairly good.” Coach Younger rarely gives utterance to a statement as optimistic as this, which, interpreted, meant that he was highly gratified over the pre-season showing of his candidates.

The Davidson mentor seemed fairly certain about most of his starting lineup for the first game of the 1929 season with Oak Ridge here tomorrow afternoon. His nine for the coming schedule of games is shaping up nicely, and only a few rough spots need the application of the ironing process.

Third base is still giving Coach Younger considerable worry. He has Marks, Parrish and Proctor cavorting around that point, and will not be able to decide about his starting player until later in the week. Should his choice lie between Marks and Parrish, Proctor will be sent to the outfield, with the right garden as his stamping ground. Proctor will be in the initial lineup because of his swatting capacities. “That's certain,” said Coach Younger.

Armfield and Gladstone are fighting it out behind the platter. Gladstone was substitute receiver for the varsity last year, and Armfield is a back-stop product of the yearlings. The odds are in favor of the latter at the present time, according to the authorities. His ability to handle the delivery of Marrow and Thompson last season is a strong point in his favor.

It is seriously doubtful if the only left-hand twirler in the Wildcat camp will see mound duty this year. Thompson, a southpaw, hurt his arm in a game last summer, and the kinks are still bothering him. He has done little work so far, it being the hope of the tutor that he would be in condition to heave later on if he nursed his sore limb the first part of the season.

Capt. Ratchford in center, Miller in left field, Crawford at first, Goodson at second, and Littlejohn at short appear to be sure bets as regulars on the Davidson varsity. The pitching staff of five are twirling the sphere in daily drill and who will be called upon as the season’s beginner is not known—either to the coach or anyone else. The quintet of moundsmen are McInnis, Kugler, Meadows, Henderson and Marrow.

Among others who are bidding strongly for different positions, according to Monk Younger, are Covington and McCallum. The former has been performing at third and in the outfield, while McCallum is devoting all of his time out in the place where the grass grows green.

Jean, aged three, out to tea, was puzzled when she saw the family bow their heads for grace. “What are you doing?” she asked. “Giving thanks for our daily bread,” she was told. “Don’t you give thanks at home, Jean?” “No,” said Jean, “we pray for our bread.”—Orange and Blue.

B-0-0-M! Up goes another building. Another big gas blow-out. Contrary to popular belief, explosion damage is unrecoverable under the Fire policy, except when fire ensues, and then for only the fire damage. To be fully protected you need Explosion Insurance, too. Let us show you how little Explosion protection costs. It’s safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Company
Insurance Department

Track Men Show Form In Pre-Season Meet With Charlotte High
First Regular Meet Shows Something of Year’s Prospects
WHITTLE STARS
No Outstanding Records Made—High Boy Wins Discus Throw From Collegians With Good Heave

In the first dual track meet of the season, staged last Saturday, the Davidson varsity overwhelmed Charlotte High and the local Freshmen. The varsity rolled up 114 points, Charlotte got 25 points, and the Freshmen got eight. The varsity carried off every first place except one, losing the discus throw to Mullis of Charlotte. Whittle, of theVarsity was high point man of the meet. He won the 100-yard dash, the 120-yard high hurdles, and the 220 low hurdles, besides running in the 880-yard relay. He donated fifteen points to the varsity score. One of the most spectacular finishes of the afternoon was staged by Bill McGavock, to take the two-mile from Bill Beavers. They had dogged each other’s footsteps for the whole eight laps, McGavock leading most of the way, though Beavers took the lead from him by a sprint at the beginning of the eighth lap. McGavock started sprinting as he came into the straightaway for the finish, and it was a battle from there to the tape, Beavers losing by a small margin. The time, for most of the events, was rather slow, due to a wind which offered a great deal of resistance, and to the early date at which the meet was staged. Most of the boys are just now rounding into shape.

Summary of events:
100-yard dash—Whittle (D.C.), Kell (D.C.), Jennings (D.C.), McMillan (C.H.S.). Time, 10.2 seconds.
Mile run—Ely (D.C.), Goodwin (D.C.), Brannon (Fresh.), Lumpkin (C.H.S.). Time, 4:55.
220-yard dash—Jennings (D.C.), McMillan (C.H.S.), Neal (D.C.), Caldwell (C.H.S.). Time, 24.4.
120-yard high hurdles—Whittle (D.C.), George (D.C.). Time, 15.6.
440-yard dash—Brohard (D.C.), McHutchan (C.H.S.), Evans (C.H.S.). Time, 56.
Two-mile run—McGavock (D.C.), Beavers (D.C.). Time, 11:37.
220 low hurdles—Whittle (D.C.), Reech (C.H.S.), Hunter (D.C.), Elden (C.H.S.). Time, 26.8.
880-yard run—Lafferty (D.C.), Neal (D.C.), Waddell (C.H.S.). Time, 2:8.2.
Pole vault—Bailey (D.C.), Brock (D.C.), and Smith (D.C.), tied for second. Height, 10 feet, 6 inches.

Outlook Bright For Strong Tennis Team
Roddey, Halverstadt, Johnston Are Letter Men Available for Team

With their first intercollegiate match barely more than one week off, the varsity tennis team is rapidly rounding into shape for the encounter. After being handicapped in early season drills by the inclement weather, the players have taken full advantage of the ideal conditions during the past week to put in some invaluable practice and most members of the squad are already handling the racket in mid-season form.

Captain J. T. Roddey, A. N. Halverstadt, and F. W. Johnston, varsity members from last year, are all performing on the court in speedy form but, as yet, the fourth player on the team has not been determined. Bradley, Poe, DeCamp, and Pettus are the men vying for this position. Until the team is completed, little can be predicted as to the real strength of the squad.

WADE SMITH (Continued from page 1)
...announced that his subject was “The Cross.” Abraham carrying his son to the mountain in order to offer him up as a sacrifice represented the birth of Christ yet to come. As he described the old man placing Isaac on the altar and binding him there, Mr. Smith proclaimed the supreme sacrifice of Christ who died that man might be redeemed. Abraham was giving up his only beloved son through faith in God. Christ also was an only Son, much beloved by His Father. But when Abraham received word to take Isaac off of the altar, Rev. Smith held his listeners spellbound in his description of the great deliverance and salvation bestowed upon man by God through the death of Christ. God in receiving His Son into heaven delivered his people. Then Mr. Smith drew several pictures illustrating the fact that through the death of Christ many lives were saved. His final picture was a large red cross. Then he closed his lecture in singing with the audience a hymn in prayer.

High jump—Gardner (D.C.), Dumas (D.C.), Wood (D.C.), Miles (Fresh.). Height, 5 feet, 8 inches.
Discus—Mullis (C.H.S.), Leftwich (D.C.), Lillard (Fresh.), Regen (D.C.). Distance, 121 feet, 9 inches.
Shot put—Leftwich (D.C.), Mullis (C.H.S.), Regen (D.C.), Boyle (D.C.). Distance, 39 feet, 9 inches.
Broad jump—McCall (D.C.), Gardner (D.C.), Suggs (D.C.), McGavock (D.C.). Distance, 21 feet, 5 inches.
880-yard relay—Davidson, Brohard, George, Lafferty, Whittle, Charlotte. Time, 1:39.5.
Javelin throw—Coble (D.C.), Lillard (Fresh.), King (D.C.), Watt (D.C.).

Florsheim Shoes
Standard Clothing
THE KELLY CLOTHING CO.
Correct Dressers for Men and Boys
(Six Miles to Mooresville)
Knox Hats
Enro Shirts
Make This Store Your Headquarters

High School Track Carnival Tomorrow
Seven Cities Represented in Lists—Others to Follow

Seven North Carolina high schools have filed their entries for the annual high school track carnival to be staged on Richardson Field at Davidson College tomorrow afternoon, according to Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, who is in charge of arrangements for the entertainment of the guests and for the meet proper. The Davidson athletic director stated today that a number of other high school track coaches had requested entry blanks, and that he expected the number to increase several during the next few days. Cities who have already entered their proteges are Greensboro, Gastonia, Oxford, Winston-Salem, Cherryville, Barium Springs, and Charlotte. Capt. Pritchett has announced that competent officials for the meet have been obtained, with Coach Tex Tilson acting as referee for the afternoon’s melee. John Currie, North Carolina sprint champion, will be the official starter of the sprints and runs, and track judges will be Col. W. R. Scott, Capt. J. A. Otto, and Capt. John W. Elkins, all members of the R.O.T.C. department here. F. D. Hobart will direct the weight events and Coach Buck Miles the heights. Many other minor officials have been detailed for duty.

At the conclusion of the matinee track carnival, a loving cup will be presented to the captain of the school scoring the highest number of points. Dr. J. M. McConnell, of the Davidson faculty, has been asked to make the presentation.

Nurse: “Mr. Jones, you are the father of quadruplets.”
Mr. Jones: “What, one of those things that runs around on four legs?”

“Do you know what the holes in doughnuts are used for?”
“No, what?”
“To stuff macaroni.”

Fresh Racketeers Train for Season
Good Trips Ahead for Wildkitten Tennis Aspirants

The prospects of a winning Freshman team are good this year. So far, the Frosh players have been showing up pretty well and if they continue to play the brand of tennis that they played throughout the fall, and they will, they will make a pretty good team. There is a chance for them to make some pretty good trips this year. They may make the trip to Virginia with the Varsity as well as a trip or so through the state. The team will be selected in a tournament to be played soon. The four semi-finalists will be placed on the team. They will play some good teams, also. The Carolina team is considered one of the best Freshman teams in the history of the school, and Duke and other colleges in the state are expected to have fast teams. Some of the leading Freshmen players are E. Z. Dubose, Fein, T. W. McClean, S. B. McClean, Rosser Elkins, M. L. Roddey, Tompkins, Enloe, and others.

She: “When did you first know you loved me?”
He: “When I began to get sensitive when people said you were brainless and homely.”—Rotunda.

RACKETS Restrung and Repaired
ALBERT N. HALVERSTADT
201 West
Twenty-Four Hour Service

THEATRE CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Now Playing—Thursday, Friday, Saturday, March 21, 22, 23
Dixie’s Favorite Minstrel Star and Company in a One-Act Minstrel Sketch entitled “The Blackville Polar Expedition” and other good Radio—Keith—Orpheum Vaudeville Acts
ON THE SCREEN
“The Girl On the Barge”
A Talking Picture With Sally O’Neil—Malcolm MacGregor—Jean Hersholt

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE
ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH
Cafeterias are catering to you

Place your order for engraved visiting cards and stationery here. Strictly high grade work at reasonable prices. Come in and look over our samples.
W. S. HENDERSON
Davidson, N.C.

STATIONERY Printed and Embossed
ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS
Aubrey Brown
Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.