THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

Alderman Black 1929-1930

MANAGING EDITORS OF THE DAVIDSONIAN
McCutchan

I. R. C. Hears McConnell On “Naval Disarmament”

Dr. J. M. McConnell, local history professor, spoke before the International Relations Club on last Friday evening on the subject,
“Naval Disarmament.” Doctor McConnell told of the history of the Naval Disarmament movement and pointed out the many difficulties which
lie in the way of curtailing shipbuilding. He spoke of Ramsay McDonald’s visit to this country as a sign of
England’s need for American co-operation in naval disarmament. America, with her great wealth and resources, could easily surpass England in
shipbuilding if she wished since England at the present time is in poor economic condition. A result of the conferences
between Premier McDonald and President Hoover was the establishment of a five-power conference to be held in London during the
month of January. Italy and Japan have indicated that they will be represented at the conference, but France has not
yet decided as to whether she will send representatives or not. It is hoped by the great majority of citizens
of all of the countries represented that some vital steps towards world peace will be made at this time.

The Prime Minister, in his radio speech in New York City some weeks ago, asked the American people to be
patient with England in limiting her navy, which is the very lifeblood of her trade. He said that America must
wait until the English people have replaced the old furniture of their minds with new furniture. They must put away
the old belief that England must be supreme upon the seas. The Prime Minister stated that this process of replacing
the old furniture of large armaments for the new furniture of limited armaments would be a very slow and gradual
process.

At the end of Doctor McConnell’s talk, there was a discussion of the general topic of world peace in which
many of the members took part. The next meeting of the International Relations Club will be on November the eighth.
The major part of the program will be given over to a debate: “Resolved that the United States Should Become
a Member of the World Court.”

Jungle: “This reminds me, I forgot to put the cat out before I left.”

“Tell me,” said the girl flyer as she prepared to hop from the plane, “is my parachute on straight?”

Singer: “And for Bonnie Annie Laurie I'd lay me down and die!”
Listener (rising): “Is Miss Annie Laurie in the audience?”

Teacher: “What did Juliet say when she met Romeo in the balcony?”
Pupil: “Couldn’t you get seats in the orchestra?”

STUDENTS, ATTENTION!

For self-supporting students desiring fascinating, remunerative work either temporary or permanent, may I suggest that many students of both sexes
have earned scholarships and cash sufficient to defray all college expenses, representing national magazine publishers. If interested, write or wire
for details—M. A. Steele, National Organizer, 5 Columbus Circle, New York, N. Y.

New Yell Tried At Last “Pep” Meeting

A very spirited “pep” meeting was held last Friday night. Professor Wood made a splendid talk on how much the
full support of the students means to the team on the field. Coach “Monk” Younger also made a short talk
along the same line. Captain Brock, at a request from Ned Heefner, said a few words, assuring everyone that the
team would do its best. A new yell, suggested by Norman Raies, of Mt. Hope, West Virginia, was introduced with
very good effect. This is one of the University of West Virginia’s most popular yells. It was originated by Bill
Thompson, for three years cheerleader of that institution, who is also from Mt. Hope. The yell is as follows:

FIGHT—WILDCATS—FIGHT
FIGHT—WILDCATS—FIGHT
FIGHT FIGHT—FIGHT
FIGHT FIGHT FIGHT—WILDCATS—FIGHT!

According to Heefner, this yell is different from those now in use. It will be used for the first time
at the game on Homecoming Day.

Several Changes in Concert Orchestra

Eighteen men reported at the first meeting of the Davidson Concert Orchestra on Monday, October 14. At this time, plans
were made for the coming season and several changes were made in order to produce an orchestra that is well-rounded.
The Jazz orchestra has been combined with the College Symphony Orchestra, and the name changed to “The Davidson Concert Orchestra.”
There were several vacancies in the Symphony which the Jazz band helped to fill. There is still a need for
a ‘cello, viola, oboe, and bass viol. Students who play any of these instruments are urged to see Professor Cullum,
who is head of the Music Department.

The Jazz orchestra will operate as a separate unit whenever there is a call for this particular line of work.
The Concert orchestra is modeled after the modern radio concert orchestra, a compact organization that is used to play all
classes of music. The Music Department has ordered a complete library of new orchestrations in order that a new program
may be presented from beginning to end.

SAD STORY (Shakespearean Style)

Sam sits sequestered, sensing situation. Susie, sauntering somewhere, sneezes. Sam starts. “’S you, Susie?” Sam stutters. “Sure, ’sme, Sam!” she
simpers. Susie seats self, snuggles ’side Sam. “Smatter, Sam?” says Susie saucily. “Suicide seems sensible!” Sam sighs sadly. “Siamese snakes!”
screams Susie. “’S fact,” Sam says sturdily. “Such singularly stupid sinfulness,” sneers Susie sulkily. “Shame, Sam!” “Silence!” Sam sounds stentorian.
Secondary stillness. Softly, slowly, strangely Sam speaks. “See, Susie!” Sam’s six-shooter shines suddenly, spurts smoke. Sam staggers, sinks. Susie shrieks
shrilly. She seeks Sam’s side, sobbing softly. “Sam, such silliness!” she sighs sadly. “Some ’scuse, surely?” “Situation’s so, Susie,” Sam
stammers, suffocating. “Since solons ’strict student’s schedules, sole subjects secured seem sociology, Semitics, Sanskrit, Slavic, several sciences, Spencer, Shakespeare, Shelley,
sketching, ’stronomy, ’sychology, some studies! Such simple, slight study sounds sluggish—scarcely sufferable, surely! So, Susie, suicide seems sensible. S’ long!”
Sam’s soul, sorrow-seared, seeks skies. Susie stands stricken. Suddenly she snatches stiletto, stabs self. Stumbling, she slumps ’side still Sam.
Sempiternal silence suffuses scene. —Selected.

Big Five Results

TEAM WON LOST
Carolina 1 0
N. C. State 1 0
Wake Forest 1 2
Davidson 0 1
Duke 0 0

Plans For Banner Year Formed by S. C. Group

All students from South Carolina are especially requested to be present at the meeting of the South Carolina Club in
Eu Hall on Wednesday, November 6th, at nine o’clock. An interesting program is being arranged by D. C. Hunter, president
of the.club, and L. A. Mills, secretary and treasurer. The South Carolina Club, an organization of the students from the
Palmetto State, has as its object two aims, namely, the drawing of the South Carolinians at Davidson into closer fellowship,
and the discussion of problems which confront South Carolina. The club intends to function as a real live wire organization.
Fewer freshmen have registered this year from South Carolina than at any time within recent years. In fact, there are
only nine freshmen from that state. There are, however, forty-four upperclassmen and seven faculty members to swell the group from
our sister state. Capt. J. W. Elkins, Prof. E. A. Beaty, Dr. C. H. Richards, Dr. J. L. Douglas, Dr.
J. M. Douglas, Dr. J. M. McConnell, and Dr. J. W. MacConnell of the faculty are all from South Carolina.
It is a source of great pride to all Davidson men, most especially those from South Carolina, that two of
the colleges of the Palmetto State are headed by Davidson men born in South Carolina. These men are: Rev. John
McSween, president of the Presbyterian College of South Carolina, and Dr. D. M. Douglas, president of the University of South
Carolina.

Band to Perform At State Contest

For the first time in the past several years, the Davidson College band will accompany the football squad on trips
to three gridiron contests away from home. In addition to the journeys to Charlotte for the game with Clemson and
to Greensboro for the Wake Forest battle, the band is making definite plans to accompany the Wildcats to Raleigh to
cheer them on and provide pep and enthusiasm during the struggle with State. According to C. C. Orr, leader of
the band, the group is planning to put on several novelty stunts at the State game, November 9. These will
be in the nature of the forming of a “D” and an “S” and drill in novel formations. As in
the past, the band will parade between the halves and provide music during the game. The personnel of the organization
consists of thirty-three musicians, all of whom plan to attend the game.

Freshie: “Which end of the car must I get off?”
Conductor: “Take your choice, lady; both ends stop!”

Today is the tomorrow I was worrying about yesterday.

The motto of our dining-room: “Remains to be Seen!”

Our dining-room motto: “Remains to be seen!”

“I never knew raindrops could smoke.”
“Well, it so happens, they can’t.”
“That’s funny; only a few minutes ago I saw them in hail.”

All the world loves a lover, except his roommate.

DAVIDSON FIVE AND TEN YEARS AGO

FIVE YEARS BACK
(Taken from Davidsonian, from issue of October 30, 1924.)

“Trotting out upon the field at Columbia last Wednesday at noon, with a string of five victories behind them, the
Davidson Wildcats viewed a ton of weight that would be pitted against them and despite the fact that the Wildcats
lost the game 6 to 0, this great difference in weight did not damper their fighting spirit. It was this
weight, however, that was the final cause of the score, for had not the Furman team been so hefty they
would have been unable to break through the line, block the punt, and then pick up the ball and run
for a touchdown.

“The races at the Charlotte speedway nine miles south of Charlotte drew its quota of Davidson men last Saturday. Many
got excuses and left Friday night or early Saturday morning. Every conceivable means of travel was pressed into service. At
the end of practically every period, the boys whose classes were over for the day, got out on the road
and started on their journey.

“Not since October, 1916, has a Davidson eleven placed the Red and Black above the Red and White of N.
C. State and that was the only year that Monk Younger ever played for Davidson.

“The organized prayer groups among the students are meeting every morning. Each dormitory has one or more groups composed of
about five men each. A regular course of Bible study is being carried on in several of these meetings. There
are about seventeen groups in all, meeting at about 7:40. On Saturday morning a union meeting is held in Doctor
Shewmake’s classroom over the library.

“This afternoon the Davidson squad left to meet N. C. State, a team that outweighs the Wildcats 22 pounds to
the man in the line and 10 pounds in the backfield.”

TEN YEARS BACK
(Taken from the Davidsonian files, from issue of October 29, 1919.)

“A blinding flash! A loud report! And it was over. The men who were able to do so slowly wound
their dreary way toward their rooms and rest, sweet rest. For McIlwaine performed a flashlight operation on the assembled body
of Davidson reporters and future members of the news-gatherers gang and thus ended the feed given by the Reporters Club
to the freshmen who have written for the livingest wire on the hill.

“The center of football interest in the South during the week is turned to the Georgia-Tech-Davidson game. The fur will
fly and the dust will rise when the Golden Tornado and Wildcats clash on Grant Field next Saturday. One of
the hardest fought games of the season is anticipated.

“O you Georgia! Get in there Watts! Just such yells as this will be heard issuing from the gym on
Friday night after the movies when Georgia and Watts hook up for the final game. You can bet your last
dollar that this is going to be some scrap, for it is the championship game of the inter-dormitory basketball series.
Neither team has lost a game, so you know that both of them will be there with plenty of war
paint.

“Can the Davidson fellows drill? Well, you should have seen them last Saturday. A and B companies, marching in column
of platoons to the strains of martial music from Davidson’s new band, swung past the reviewing stand with lines as
straight as arrows. Davidson’s band made its debut on the parade ground, and the R. O. T. C. paraded for
the first time this year.”

STETSON $29.50

We are here to serve you.
R. B. Opposite Campus

Clothes that are made to your individual measurements. We guarantee our garments. Come in and let us convince you what
values we have to offer.

Very truly yours,
“D” STORE $34.50

HARRISON, Manager

Best Quality and Prices
ANY TYPE OF PRINTING
Earnest H. McCall
Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.
