THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1929

Carey Adams Leads “Y” Vesper Services
Speaks Forcefully on Subject of “Joseph As a Man”

Rev. Carey Adams, of Roxboro, N. C., gave a very forceful and practical talk at “Y” vesper service Sunday on
“Joseph as a Man.” John Knox had charge of the service and Ed Close and Andy Bird led in prayer.

Many lessons in Christian Manhood are to be learned from Joseph, said Mr. Adams. Joseph started out in the face
of numerous difficulties but he steadily overcame all of them, becoming a better man for each victory. He was his
father’s pet, causing his brothers to be envious of him. He learned what it was to sit on the sidelines
and see the game and what it was to be left out of the plans of the rest of his
brothers. But he didn’t let these things daunt him in the least. At only seventeen he bravely started out on
a long journey through very rough country with food for his brothers and what was his reward? Sometimes he was
downed but never licked. Then when sold as a slave into Egypt he was not in the least downhearted but
worked himself up to the position of chief steward in an Egyptian captain’s house. He had that heart-breaking experience of
being ruined by someone's lie about him. But even this was not to down him. He made a position of
trust and respect for himself in the prison and befriended the king’s servant.

We speak of a man’s mettle or a woman’s mettle. Let’s use that same term in regard to the pasture
from which we obtain our strength. Is the mettle of your pasture such that it would carry you through such
experiences as these? Then the king’s butler who had been Joseph’s friend while he could use him, completely forgot him
when he returned to the king’s court. But the falling away of his friends did not make Joseph downhearted. When
Joseph was brought into great power second only to Pharaoh in all Egypt, he had two of the most exacting
tests that can come to a man. In the first, that of sudden success, the mettle of his pasture proved
sufficient as shown by his humility. The second was probably one of the most difficult situations a man has to
face; to forgive a close friend or relative who has treated you meanly. When Joseph saw his brothers he thanked
them for having helped carry out God’s plan for him.

God gives each of us a pasture. Whether it brings us strength for every crisis or becomes the poison that
kills the soul is up to how we use it. If we can face enemies, defeat, and disappointment and be
thankful we will have a pure conscience before God and be of great service to man.

Wildkittens Downed By State Freshmen

Last Friday, a pass from Shag Waddel to Willie Duke gave State Freshmen the six-point margin which meant victory over
the Davidson Wildkittens. The State touchdown came at the beginning of the fourth quarter, after three scoreless periods passed. Burneaus’
try for extra point from placement failed, making the score 6-0 when the final whistle blew.

In the first period, the State Yearlings kept the ball well into Davidson territory, getting a good start by kicking
over the goal line on the kick-off. State had the ball on the Davidson 12-yard line, only to have the
Kittens hold them for four downs. Davidson kicked from behind the goal line to their own 25-yard line and the
first quarter ended. After an exchange of punts in the second period, Clark, Davidson halfback, intercepted...a State pass and ran
55 yards to the State 5-yard line. The Kittens passed on the second down and it was intercepted by Espey,
State center, on his own 6-yard line. The Kittens had another opportunity to score in the latter part of the
second quarter. Davidson, receiving a State punt on State’s 30-yard line, completed two passes, bringing the ball to the State
11-yard line. The half ended after Davidson had failed to gain on one play. The third period was uneventful, both
teams playing defensively. Near the end of the period Greason intercepted a Davidson pass on his 34-yard line. State punted
to Davidson’s 29-yard line as the quarter ended. On the return punt Davidson lost yardage, leaving the ball in her
territory. Then came the pass from Waddell to Duke, which won the game for State. During the entire game State’s
line proved to be almost invincible, the thrusts of the Wildkittens going fruitless as they tried time and again to
pierce it. Davidson made five first downs, mostly due to their air attack; while State made ten, the most of
which were made through the line. Captain Gardner and Pierce, end, were the best performers for Davidson. For State, Cumiskey,
Waddell, and Duke played best.

Formidable Fangs of the Wolfpack of North Carolina State

GMATHERS - Guard
WRIGHT - Fullback

Radio Class Hears Lecture By Lothery

A series of classes on the theory of radio was concluded last week when Professor T. E. Lothery, of the
Physics Department, spoke to the class on receivers. He dwelt particularly upon the subject of tuning and “beat-frequency,” which he
illustrated by means of tuning forks. The radio class, which meets on the nights of Wednesday and Friday at eight-thirty,
is under the direction of E. S. Bettis, sophomore, who is president of the local club, and D. J. Caldwell,
of the junior class, vice-president of the club. These two men have made a special study of the subject of
radio and are really very able operators. The class, which has dwindled considerably in the past few weeks, has made
excellent progress, according to a report from Bettis. “Code speed,” which is receiving special attention at present, is the main
hindrance to the members of the class receiving their licenses and becoming eligible to membership in the club. Very good
work is being done by the present members of the club. Last week a successful amateur transmission of the play-by-play
account of the Wake Forest-Davidson football game was accomplished.

$29.50 STETSON “D” STORE
Opposite Campus

In Stetson “D” Clothes you will find the utmost comfort---in style---in service! A wide range of correct designs in numerous
styles. Every Suit or Top Coat of Stetson “D”s Is Guaranteed! $34.50

SEE - HEAR
The New VICTOR MICRO-SYNCHRONOUS RADIO AND RADIOLA
See Them At PARKER GARDNER CO.
16 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Victor & Brunswick Records - Furniture And Draperies

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY STANDS FOR
Loyalty to Christ and His Word
Scholarship combined with a passion for Evangelism
Responsibility for a World Mission to be served by the trained sons of our Church

POSSESSES
A loyal, scholarly, evangelical Faculty
A Seminary Spirit enriched by the prayers and services of her sons
A Student body drawn from the South’s and Nation’s consecrated young manhood

B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President
Richmond, Virginia.
