THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24, 1929

Collegiate Comment

FEATURES

On This and That Music By Horace W. Erwin

AN APPRECIATION

“Are you musical?” “No; I neither play nor sing.” Your answer shows a complete misunderstanding of the case. Because you
neither play nor sing, it by no means follows that you are unmusical. If you love music and appreciate it,
you may be more musical than many pianists or singers; and certainly you may become so. —Gustav Kobbe.

Inability to play or sing is no indication of being unmusical. If all the great music in the past had
been written merely for those playing instruments, it is questionable whether it would have come down to us today. Certainly
that is true in the case of symphonic music. For it is safe to say that large groups of musicians
would not assemble frequently to hear themselves play. And few composers, if any, would continue producing just for musicians and
themselves without encouragement as given by attending audiences.

For whom, then, do they compose? For those who appreciate and enjoy! Enjoyment follows appreciation, and appreciation is the “capacity
to understand.” Can anybody be made to appreciate music, you ask? Anyone who is not tone-deaf (for there are tone-deaf
people as well as color-blind) and who is willing to exert a little patience to learn. Music cannot be learned
all at once. And an appreciation of it will not come from reading books. In general life, the best way
to learn is to do, and in music, the best way to learn is to hear. True, books and explanatory
notes will greatly help to elucidate the meaning of a certain symphony or opera, as intended by the composer, but
actual appreciation of the music will come only by hearing it.

Before going further, you interpose, is it worth while to spend all that time and patience on something which will
not indirectly increase one’s income in after life, unless undertaken professionally? Very much so, is the answer. Men who are
planning to become lawyers, doctors, dentists, teachers, ministers, or whose professions will decide their social environment, cannot expect to be
accepted in circles where art and literature are patronized unless they acquaint themselves with art and literature. A teacher's life
is among cultured people; a minister is expected to show an appreciation of the aesthetic; doctors, dentists, and lawyers must
have contact with all classes of people, and it is doubtful that they can long remain uncultured themselves and retain
a clientele among the cultured.

But learning music for convenience and advancement of one’s profession is too superficial, too unavailing, too distant from the purpose
of music. And the sight of a professional man painfully enduring a musical to keep up appearances among a cultured
clientele would indeed make a pathetic picture.

As we have already mentioned, the first thing for the novice to learn is that music cannot all be grasped
at first hearing, for which, incidentally, music-lovers are thankful. Even trained critics admit bewilderment at the first hearing of an
unfamiliar piece. Beginners should not be discouraged, therefore, if first impressions are not overpowering. For it is the very fact
that music is not so slight as to be fully comprehended all at once that leaves so much for subsequent
hearings, when its hidden qualities at length reveal themselves.

No doubt many a well-intentioned aspirant, with a perfectly good sense of appreciation, has listened for a few moments to
an involved classic and then exclaimed in despair, “The trouble with classical music is that there is no melody to
it!” What he means to say, however, is that he doesn’t hear it. Now he may be perfectly honest in
not being able to detect the melody, but he should not be so dogmatic as to assert that there is
none, just because he doesn’t grasp it. And then this despairing soul will look for solace in jazz. He is
beguiled; for the quick, syncopated rhythm “catches” him, the melody is attractive, and the selection is short. Woe to jazz
music if its selections were as long as classical! If they were, how long do you suppose people would be
fascinated? Indeed George Gershwin wrote his “Rhapsody in Blue” of symphonic length, but he was obliged to employ what is
referred to as “classical jazz.” Mind, we do not

Contest Winner Nouvelle Evant-hier Boost Davidson R. E. W.

Going about holding my sides from laughter, for I realize that we all have had a very narrow escape. It
seems that back in 1850 there was some discussion along the lines of co-education for Davidson. Running through an old
editorial on the subject I find that an alert young editor has put forth a few novel reasons for not
subjecting the school to a ceaseless shuffle of high heels: “We have no dormitories fit for girls, and the towns-people
cannot offer enough homes to care for them. But supposing that there were enough homes in the

Big Five Colleges Back Student Plan

A movement is under way, sponsored by the student governments of the so-called “Big Five” Colleges of the state, Davidson,
N. C. State, North Carolina, Duke, and Wake Forest to bring about the passage of a resolution to the effect
that all students of these colleges be admitted free to athletic contests played between the teams of these institutions. The
plan had its origin only a few weeks ago, and nothing of a definite nature has been accomplished as yet.
A convention was called to meet at Duke University the latter part of this month to consider the matter, but
very little definite information is available as to any action taken.

NEW ADDRESSES (Continued from Page Five)

Rev. T. J. Hutchison, '04, and E. K. Regen, '26, both at the Biblical Seminary, 235 E. 49th St., New
York, N. Y. Rev. J. T. Carr, Cass, W. Va. Walter Lynch, '26, 1117 Telfair St., Augusta, Ga. W. B.
Taylor, Jr., '08, Fraternity Club, New York, N. Y. Franklin Fricker, '21, 101 W. 39th St., Baltimore, Md.

Davidson has not given the proposition serious consideration at this time, but will

PAUL C. SPIESS

College boy is winner of coveted aviation award in competition with 1,500.

ABILITY OF GLASGOW (Continued from page 1)

has a great work to do here and that he will do it.” Zeb Long, who has been associated with
Doctor Glasgow during the past two summers in his summer conference work on the Davidson Campus gives the following statement:
“For the past two summers I have heard Dr. Samuel Glasgow entrance the young people at the Davidson Conferences with
the greatness of his understanding, the power of his sermons, and the inspiration of his personality. I have heard few
men with so eloquent an appeal to the young man, few men with such consecration to their work, few men
with so great a heart to work for the Master. His coming to Davidson will be a great event for
the college—a great event for the advancement of a vital religious spirit among the students. Every man who hears him
will go away convinced that something worthwhile and uplifting awaits him through contact with Doctor Glasgow.”seek to disparage jazz and
its purpose, for we believe it has its place as well as classical (for who can deny the efficacy of
the Sunnyland Serenaders?); but we are trying to show that people can derive more pleasure from classical than from jazz
music, if they will investigate each fairly. The trouble with the aforementioned despairing soul is not his lack of capacity
to receive classical music unto himself, but an apparent inability to sit for a long period of time and use
his mind intellectually. This identical soul avoids all art as he does music. But if he would control his patience
and resolve to give music (and art) a fair chance to speak for itself, he could soon be brought to
alter his opinions. One who is brought up in a family where there is music is fortunate indeed, for he
is imbued with an appreciation of it. On the other hand, he who has not had the advantages of musical
training, must awaken and develop his taste. Attending concerts will, of course, help him to do this; but better and
more convenient, victrola records are worthy instructors, for they can be repeated as often as desired, and the music will
therefore leave a sharper impress on his mind. He should begin with the simpler and less-involved compositions. In due time
he will realize that longer and intricate works are not jejune, as he at first thought, but expressive and purposeful.
Having reached this stage, he is on the right road, and needs but to hear more music.

The girls would have to walk to the college through inches of mud and slush, with which the streets of
Davidson are well equipped. If we must have co-education let it be when the school is moved to a larger
town. Davidson College needs co-education. Let us build up the school and then speak on such matters. That another had
realized early the great truth—that it takes money to have women. So back to my musings and realize that Davidson
hasn't always met defeat at the hands of Clemson. In 1915 we won over them on the intellectual gridiron with
a score of 3-0 according to the judge's count. Up to the library and am elated at the discovery of
a name for the “cold stone” on that pedestal in the hall. It is a bust of Dante and was
presented to the College by Dr. Martin, who procured it while touring in Italy. Satan’s domains seem always to flash
before my mind at the slightest opportunity. I like Dante’s Inferno and prefer Milton’s sketch of the Devil to anything
in literature. Of course it is irrelevant but when I see that in 1925 the seniors chose blue blazers for
their garb, can you blame me? And so while on the subject of fire I might mention another one back
in 1925 (a hot year it would seem!) when a servant house in the rear of the library belched up
smoke. Of course the army jumped to the rescue and made a name for itself. One modest Admiral put finishing
touches on the incident by dragging out a li’l choclit drop almost as black as himself. Am minded to leave
you with the following extract: “If you've anything good to say of a man, Don't wait till he’s laid to
rest, For the eulogy spoken when hearts are broken Is an empty thing at best.” It is a trite little
thought but always seems to be good for a quiescent lecture. There are so many men who only know the
good in themselves after they have read it on the tombstone. Don’t be like the son-in-law of Rhompsinitus and give
each fellow a rancid bone. Give him a large, rare bit of kindness and watch the miracle evolve. Down to
Eumenean Hall and am overwhelmed by the idea that only once in a century is a crowd gathered there without
speech making. In 1916 Woodrow Wilson came to the college and was conducted around the campus. He went to the
hall and upon being asked to make a speech refused, saying, “I was just confessing to Dr. Martin that this
is one place in which I cannot make a talk. I have tried here before.” Back home only to be
reminded again of Wilson and his career. In the fall term his average at Davidson was 87.67; in the spring
it was 93.42. Such an increase in grades may not be prophetic but to me it signifies his whole life;
ever and steadily increasing in power. He ended well each job that he undertook. Let that be said of any
man and he will need no higher tribute. Thinking of an old song: “Where has my old gang gone?” and
am minded to paraphrase it; “Where have the old days gone?” In March, 1890, the college decreed that the Saturday
before Easter would be observed as a holiday and bear the name of Maxwell Chambers’ Day. Well, can more than
likely be glad to lend her aid if the movement gains impetus enough to get the students aroused. It seems
unlikely that definite action can be taken this fall. Most of the efforts now will be devoted to the creation
of favorable sentiment in athletic councils of the various colleges, since it is these bodies which must take final action.
The students will probably back any such movement to the limit.

FOUR PROMINENT SENIORS (Continued from page 1) This was to honor Maxwell Chambers, who endowed the college with a sum
of $258,000, most of which was lost in the great fire. A serious thought for those who do not like
this column: “Emulate Socrates, gentlemen. The hemlock bowl stands at my right.” And so to bed hoping that the morrow
will bring forth no suicides.

AEROPLANE HITS TWO HOUSES AND GARAGE! Special to the Herald Tribune BOSTON, March 24.—A U. S. Navy plane from Squantum,
flown by Lt. W. C. Greene, and Lt. S. Colwell, of Providence, flying 4,000 feet over Quincy today, fell and
crashed into two houses and finally landed on a garage some distance away. With more than 4,000 landing fields in
the U. S., such crashes are everyday accidents. Only Aircraft Property Damage Insurance will protect the property owner—for a few
cents a day!

Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

STATIONERY FOUNTAIN PENS SUNDRIES Victor, Brunswick and Columbia Records every week W. S. HENDERSON CANDIES SMOKES SODA

Stationery printed and embossed Best Quality and ANY TYPE OF PRINTING Earnest H. McCall 108 Watts Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.
