6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24, 1929

J. M. McConnell Speaks On Naval Disarmaments
I. R. C. Is Sponsored by Carnegie Endowment

Dr. J. M. McConnell will speak to the International Relations Club Friday evening of this week in the Social Center
Parlor of Eu Hall. Dr. McConnell will speak on the subject of Naval Disarmaments. He has chosen this topic for
discussion because it is a most vital and far-reaching step toward the promotion of world peace that has come about
in some time; and also because the visit of Premier Ramsay McDonald is still in the minds and hearts of
American people. After Doctor McConnell’s address there will be a general discussion on this and other international problems of interest.

The Carnegie Endowment of New York City sponsors the I. R. C. of Davidson and all throughout the year sends
fortnightly summaries of international events and also many books dealing with international problems. The Club has recently received some new
books dealing with peace problems that will be of interest to members of the Club. The I. R. C. recently
received an acknowledgment from Prime Minister Ramsay McDonald expressing his thanks for the kind communication which he had received from
the Club. He also added, “that the numerous expressions which he is receiving in the United States are a source
of great pleasure to him.” The Club expects to have an interesting program and hopes that it will be of
interest to those attending. All members of the student body are cordially invited to hear Doctor McConnell Friday night.

SCHOLARSHIP IN AERONAUTICS

A scholarship to Guggenheim School of Aeronautics, New York University, valued at $1,000, is the reward won by Paul C.
Spiess, Denver, Colo., in the Eaglerock Awards competition sponsored by the Alexander Aircraft Company among undergraduate college students throughout the
United States. Spiess submitted four papers on “Height Above-Ground Altimeters.” They included calculations and experimental problems resulting from his study
of the subject. He was a freshman at the University of Colorado last year and an honor student.

After Spiess has completed his technical education he hopes to find a job which will give him some part in
building and designing airplanes. He has already shown marked aptitude for technical subjects as indicated by his grades which were
among the highest of those earned by freshman engineering students. Spiess states that by doing his work thoroughly rather than
hurriedly, he has found that he could make better grades.

Fifteen hundred college students competed for the Eaglerock awards. Besides the scholarships, an Eaglerock airplane valued at $3,500 and sixteen
flying courses valued at $300 each were given as prizes.

Ticket Agent: “This ticket costs fifty dollars and allows you a three-day hangover in St. Louis.”
Buyer: “And how much if I don’t get drunk?”

It is generally known that a college diploma and ten cents will buy a cup of coffee.—Virginia Reel.

STUDENTS, ATTENTION!

For self-supporting students desiring fascinating, remunerative work either temporary or permanent, may I suggest that many students of both sexes
have earned scholarships and cash sufficient to defray all college expenses, representing national magazine publishers. If interested, write or wire
for details—M. A. Steele, National Organizer, 5 Columbus Circle, New York, N. Y.

BROCK KICKS GOAL
(Continued from page 3)

for the score. Only the safety man was in his way, and King blocked him out. Thad Brock’s toe with
the Ph.D. put the ball through the crossbars for the winning point. It was the seventh successful goal the Davidson
captain had made in eight attempts.

For the entire first half the Cadets had been coming through the Davidson forward wall almost at will. However, whenever
the goal was threatened, the ’Cats braced and held. Two times the Bulldogs took the ball within the ten-yard line,
only to lose it on downs. The Citadel line had outcharged the Wildcats and had stopped every play almost before
it could get well underway. Citadel was forced to punt following the initial kickoff, but Joe McCall was tackled so
hard that he fumbled the ball, and a blue-jerseyed player pounced on it in midfield. After two line plays had
failed to gain much, Wilson faked a punt and passed to Whittington, who was downed on the Davidson thirty-yard line.
Citadel lacked first down by inches on the fourth down, but Brasington made it with ease, racing 17 yards to
the Davidson four-yard line. Brasington again hit the center of the line that had seemed a sieve a moment before,
but he was stopped by a brick wall. He hit the same place two other times, and gained 12 inches
each attempt. Then he made his big mistake. He tried to take the ball around the end which Captain Brock
protects, and Brock charged through downing him on Davidson’s 10-yard line. Brock kicked out of danger immediately.

For the remainder of the quarter neither team could gain consistently. However, Citadel had the best of things all the
way, the ball being in their possession and in Davidson’s territory a greater part of the time. The quarter ended
with the ball belonging to Citadel in midfield. The Bulldogs passed twice to open the quarter, and placed the ball
on Davidson's 20-yard line. Whittington made first down on the ten-yard line. Barbot made five yards on the first play,
but two other plays were stopped dead. Then Whittington drove hard right through the center of the line, but it
was not quite enough. The ball went over on the one-foot line. Brock kicked out of danger from behind his
own goal. Neither team could gain much the rest of the half. The Wildcats made their only first down on
the last play of the period, a pass from Fraley to McCall getting ten yards.

The half opened with Davidson receiving, but they couldn’t keep the ball. The ball changed once more, then Brock kicked
to Grey, who was tackled after signaling for a fair catch. The penalty gave the Cadets the ball on the
’Cat 45-yard line. Grey and Barbot made first down on the thirty-yard line, then the two made another on the
20. McIntosh carried the ball to the four-yard line on two plays, then on the next play, he carried it
over for the first score of the game. McIntosh missed the goal, this later costing the Cadets the game.

The Wildcats, with their fighting spirit thoroughly aroused, took the kickoff, and in five plays put over a touchdown, and
the point was made, giving the ’Cats the lead. The quarter ended as Brock kicked off. Citadel opened up another
drive that carried the ball to Davidson’s 22-yard line, but Brock broke through and threw Grey for an 8-yard loss
on the third down, and the Bulldogs kicked over the goal.

Then the ’Cats opened up a beautiful running game, and swept back up the field to the Citadel forty-yard line,
before the drive was stopped, and Brock was forced to kick. Two plays later Parrish intercepted a pass to give
the ball to Davidson on the Cadet 44-yard line. Then another march began that looked as though it would end
in another score for Davidson, but the game was over before the ball could be carried past the twenty-yard line.

Picking the outstanding star of the game is not very difficult. The work of Captain Thad Brock for Davidson stood
out throughout the contest. His punting got the Wildcats out of several deep holes, and his passing did much to
bring about the touchdown. Time after time he broke through to throw a blue-clad back for a loss or to
rush the punters and passers. Very few times were any gains made around his end, none being for very many
yards. The ’Cat backfield, Fraley, Parrish, King, and McCall played the entire game without substitution. The work of each was
very good, especially in smearing passes and on the defense. Their running in the fourth quarter was also very good,
but none of them could get loose often before then.

For Citadel, Grey, Whittington, and McIntosh did most of the ball-toting. All turned in good games. They had plenty of
drive and power, and were hard to stop. The line as a whole furnished beautiful interference for the ball carriers.

Line-up:
Citadel Position Davidson
Carlisle _______ LE ______ Brock (C)
Robinson ______ LT ______ Baker
Robes ________ LG ______ DeCamp
Keion ________ Center ____ Mason
Morgan (C) ___ RG ______ Mahia
Oglesby ______ RT ______ Baker
Bow _________ RE ______ Brown
Wilson _______ QB ______ Fraley
Bacon Yagi Parrish Chapman ___-_____ BH caueorsess McCall McIntosh ~-____.- DB 2 ecee keds King

Score by Periods:
DAVIDSON 0 0 0 7—7
Citadel 0 0 6 0—6

DAVIDSON ALUMNUS
(Continued from Page 1)

venture to set forth some impression which no doubt escaped the press representatives who accompanied us, if indeed anything may
be said to escape them, ever. As the Prime Minister and Secretary of State walked towards the waiting cars at
the battery, some chap rushed past me and shouted ‘Hello, Mullen,’ and amid the din of whistles, bells, etc., I
yelled back: ‘Hello, how are you?’ I was alongside the Prime Minister at the time, and as he apparently thought
the salutation was for him, he jovially replied, ‘Fine, thank you.’

Along the route to the City Hall, where he was unintentionally hailed as ‘Prime Minister of the United States’ by
one of the Mayor's committee, he was greeted with cheers of ‘Scots wha hae’ and ‘Good Old Mac;’ some of
the news photographers (an excitable fraternity) addressed him as ‘Sir Ramsay’ when shouting for him to take off his hat
or to put it on, to stand up or sit down—generally requesting him to do the opposite to the thing
he was doing. It’s a way the photographers have.

“If his schedule were full at Washington, it was but a foretaste of what transpired in New York, although on
Saturday, when the Wildcats were scratching the Army’s finest, we were cruising in the nearby New Jersey and New York
highlands, followed only by a car of New York detectives, finding surcease from the rush and roar that is New
York. On Sunday, too, we went far into the Connecticut countryside, where Mr. MacDonald told reporters he would ‘worship next
to Nature.’ However, it was a very tired man who boarded the special train at Grand Central Station on Monday
morning, and all the way up to Buffalo I assisted his own staff in keeping everybody away from him in
order that he might gather strength for his final appearance in America on the following days. I often stepped into
the breach to keep from him annoying interviewers, or to find ways and means of prolonging his intervals of rest
and meditation, and it is possibly for this reason that he stated to some of his suite that ‘he (meaning
myself) is officially attached to me, but I am personally attached to him.’ I became a bit fatigued myself, and
still am, for it is no small burden to carry the responsibility for the safety and well-being of the Prime
Minister of Great Britain while he is a guest within our gates.

The telegram conveying to the President the Prime Minister’s expression of thanks and appreciation of our hospitality was written in
an automobile as the party sped to the special train on the Canadian side, where he handed it to me
to send as the train pulled out. I waved him a last good-bye as he stood on the rear platform
of his private car, fast disappearing in the distance. I thought of three quotations with which I once closed a
speech on peace when I was a Soph at Davidson: ‘Let us have peace,’ said Grant; ‘With malice towards none,’
said Lincoln; ‘Blessed are the peacemakers,’ said Jesus. It was the closing scene of a historic visit.

With greeting to Davidson, I am,
Cordially yours,
(Signed) LeRoy A. Mullen.

STOP that COLD and COUGH
take CoideX
The “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy for College Students, sold by a College Student
YOUR DRUGGIST
Jim Galloway HAS COLDEX
U. of S. C.

DAVIDSON FIVE AND TEN YEARS AGO

FIVE YEARS BACK
(Taken from Davidsonian files, from issue of October 23, 1924.)

Bids have been extended to three of the leading scholars in the present Senior class from the Gamma chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic fraternity. The men, whose scholastic averages for the first three years of their college career
are marks of superior excellence are: Martin W. Trawick of Buena Vista, Va., W. Wallace Purdy, of Pensacola, Fla., and
Alvin T. Rowe, of Fredericksburg, Va. Martin Trawick leads the list of Seniors in scholastic work, with the remarkable average
of 98 percent in his work for his first three years.

Outweighed 15 pounds to the man, Coach Monk Younger’s fighting Wildcats won their fifth straight game of the season Saturday,
sending the big Lenoir Bears back to their mountain haunts scratching at the little end of a 45-0. The overwhelming
victory of the Red and Black team came as a great surprise to the football followers of the state, Coach
Gurley bringing his Lenoir team on Richardson field with half the state saying he would mar the defeatless record of
Davidson on its home field, and throw a monkey wrench into the victorious march of the 1924 team. The prettiest
play of the game came in the second quarter, when Ted Covington slipped through center of the big Lenoir line
and dashed 31 yards to the goal line.

Stunt night went over immensely last Friday judging from the laughter and applause that it brought out in its audience.
The College Glee Club sponsored the affair with the intention of raising funds for their several trips. The sophomore stunt,
characterizing a courtroom scene, had a larger representation of the class than any other class stunt given.

The Davidson Wildkittens continued their victorious march and Thursday they went down and defeated the Presbyterian College Freshmen by a
14-6 score.

The initial intercollegiate debate in which Davidson College debating team is to participate, will take place in Atlanta on the
evening of December 5 when forensic representatives of Emory University lock horns with Davidson talent.

At the dedication of the new Leroy Springs gymnasium and Smyth dormitory, Wednesday, October 15, and at the meeting of
the Synod of South Carolina, the Faculty and Board of Trustees of the Presbyterian College of South Carolina, conferred upon
Dr. M. E. Sentelle and Prof. J. M. Douglas, the degree of Doctor of Literature.

TEN YEARS BACK
(Taken from Davidsonian files, from issue of October 22, 1919.)

O, but it was great! Yes, we are speaking of that game Saturday in which rain, mud, Gamecocks and Wildcats
were all mixed up in one big puddle, from which a bunch of almost unrecognizable yet jubilant Wildcats emerged victorious,
7-0. After many of the fans had about conceded that the football contest between Davidson and South Carolina would be
a deadlock with the count 0-0, the Red and Black machine began to work in its accustomed manner and scored
a touchdown in the last 70 seconds of play.

With three victories and two defeats so far this season, the Wildcats journey up into Virginia again this week to
meet Virginia Military Institute in Roanoke. The two teams are very evenly matched with the possible edge in favor of
Davidson, which is offset by the fact that Black is out of the game for a while with a broken
hand and that the game will be played on the opponents’ field.

With the enthusiasm for athletics at its height, centered around the record being made by the football team, the Tennis
Association makes the announcement that tennis will soon make its appearance on the scene. The fall tournament will begin Monday,
October 27. As an inducement to secure entries for the tournament, the Commissary has offered a box of tennis balls
of a well-known brand, to the winner.

Less than one percent of American men are college graduates. Yet this one percent of college graduates has furnished:
Fifty-five percent of the Presidents of the United States.
Thirty-six percent of members of Congress.
Forty-seven percent of the Speakers of House of Representatives.
Fifty-four percent of Vice-Presidents of the United States.

The Rich-Wenno company, the opening attraction of the Lyceum course, was presented in Shearer Hall last Wednesday night at 8:30.
A large crowd of both college boys and towns-people were entertained and delighted for one and one half hours, by
the talented and well-known artists, Miss Rita Ritch and Miss Laura Wenno.

The most original service held in Shearer Hall for several years was given by Doctor Arbuckle last Sunday night on
the unique subject, “Chemistry in Religion” which he illustrated with actual experiments.

CLEANING
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST IN CLEANING AND SHOE REPAIRING
“Once Tried Always Preferred”
WRIGHT CLEANING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Bob Turner, 31 Georgia

PRESSING
SEE
HEAR
The New VICTOR MICRO-SYNCHRONOUS RADIO AND RADIOLA
See Them At
PARKER GARDNER CO.
16 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Victor & Brunswick Records
Furniture And Draperies
