Page Six < THE DAVIDSONIAN : January 17, 1929

OPEN FORUM
(Continued from page 2)

Feeling sure that I shall be accused of misquoting, I have put no words in quotations.
—ZISKA.

AGAIN, THE CHAMELEON
(Editor’s Note. In view of recent criticisms of The Chameleon appearing in this paper, we are publishing criticisms appearing in magazines from other colleges. The references here are to the October issue of the magazine.)

The Coraddi (N.C.C.W.): “The October number of The Chameleon is one of the most versatile magazines that we have read. In prose and in verse there is admirable variety and range. ‘The Star of Death’ is a most interesting story; in atmosphere the author reaches enviable effects. The oriental wedding feast which ends in the death of the ‘foreign devil’ by means of the weird, mystifying star is the climax to a well-executed piece of writing. ‘The Free-Lance’ and ‘If I Could Write’ possess atmospheres of reality. In a lighter vein, ‘His Period of Training’ and ‘La Philosophie Contemporaine de Davidson’ are delightfully absurd. We congratulate The Chameleon on its general content and make-up.”

The Concept (Converse): “The Chameleon for October has four interesting short stories. ‘The Star of Death’ has the sureness of touch that comes with knowledge. The Chinese scenes encountered by the American representative of the American and British Tobacco Company could only have been written by one who knew the country. The satire of ‘La Philosophie Contemporaine Americaine de Davidson’ is very lively. It justifies its claim to ‘present a few of the many philosophical thoughts contained in the Davidson Credo.’ There is nothing striking about the various poems, but they are uniformly good.”

Mary Baldwin Miscellany: “That is a publication which holds our highest esteem at this time—Davidson’s Chameleon. The October issue is rich in material—it presents a broad perspective and its variety is appreciated. The mere outward appearance of The Chameleon suggests charm and dignity. The author of ‘The Star of Death’ presents his far eastern story in a very authentic and realistic manner. He evidently has first-hand knowledge of the situations he presents. The burlesque tone of ‘La Philosophie Contemporaine de Davidson’ is refreshing. ‘If I Could Write’—truly this ‘would-be poet composer’ of this diary has a poetic soul that enables him to express so beautifully his love of nature. There are numerous other interesting stories, articles, and poems that we should like to discuss. Indeed, this issue of The Chameleon is one of real merit and warrants our sincere admiration.”

A REPLY TO “CASTE OF TRADITION”
An editorial, entitled “Caste of Tradition,” appearing in the last issue of The Davidsonian has, I believe, a mistaken idea of things. Most decidedly, we are not one of those who would hold on to traditions just because they are traditions. There are many traditions we would like to have the privilege of dynamiting. But we do not agree with the author of the above-mentioned editorial in his view that the positions of prominence on the campus, more especially the editors of the publications, should, in case of lack of good material in the senior class, be chosen from the Junior class. In the first place, these positions are not based on the merits of the men, but, for the most part, on popularity. Any change would only mean that any men of greater talent would be chosen, and not that any men of greater talent be honored. The student body, which elects these various offices, has very little idea of individual abilities. And would, no doubt, pay only minor attention to a man’s ability anyhow. Popularity, personality—these are the attributes on which a man is voted into such an office as editor of Quips and Cranks, The Davidsonian, etc.

The writer cites cases of large universities choosing men of the lower classes for such positions. And in a large university, we believe, this plan would work. You select your editor from what you have read by him—possibly not knowing him by sight. Here, you vote for the man with the heartiest greetings, the man most friendly in bull sessions. You know your man personally.

The Senior class is, by tradition, common sense, or what have you, the class on which most responsibility is placed, and should be. If, at any time, talent of amazing superbness be found in the Junior class as contrasted with a decided lack of talent among the Seniors, then we agree—traditions should not be too binding. The present basketball situation is just such a case. Traditions didn’t seem to bother the basketball men last year. Traditions shouldn’t, necessarily, keep the editor of The Davidsonian among the Seniors. But don’t make it a tradition to have the editor among the Juniors or Seniors. In rare cases, only, we say—waive traditions. Let common sense rule.
—D. P. Anderson.

WITH OTHER COLLEGES

Nash Heads League
Yellow Springs, Ohio—(IP)—Philip C. Nash, dean of Antioch College for the past eight years, has been appointed executive director of the League of Nations Association with headquarters at New York. He takes up his new duties January 1. Nash succeeds Charles C. Bauer, formerly of Springfield, Ohio, who becomes vice-president of the association’s council. Nash has been interested in the League of Nations since its inception.

New City Found
Bakhchisarai, Crimea—(IP)—The ruins of a great city, the origin of which is not known, have been discovered in the Eski-Kermen valley in the heart of the Crimean peninsula. The ruins are said to extend for more than two miles, and consist of high fortress walls, hundreds of homes hewed out of rocks and six great cave temples, decorated with ancient frescoes. Russian archeologists claim the ruins were once the capital of the Goth kingdom, known in history as the city of Feodora, founded during the reign of Justinian the Great.

More Land to Texas
Austin, Texas—(IP)—Texas, already the largest state in the Union, is to be 25,000 acres larger when the United States Supreme Court issues its final decree in the Texas-Oklahoma boundary dispute. About that amount of land, valued at from $25 to $75 an acre, will be added to Texas because the court has found that the true 100th meridian, the legal border of western Oklahoma, and the eastern border of the Texas panhandle, really takes in part of what is now Oklahoma. The court ordered a commission to establish the true line, which will swing east of the present one. It will cut off a large, wedge-shaped section of Oklahoma, the big end being at the Red River, south boundary of Oklahoma. Oklahoma’s jurisdiction will be extended to the south low banks of the Red River.

Unusual Record by Boren
Los Angeles—(IP)—The University of Southern California had a versatile football player in the person of Charley Boren, who played his last game for the Trojans against Notre Dame. Boren will be graduated next June with the honor of having starred at three positions on the eleven, in doing which he proved himself one of the most efficient players in Southern California football history. He played one year as halfback, one as an end, and one as a running guard. In addition, he has a splendid scholastic record.

Big Game Okayed
Kansas City (IP)—A New Year's football game in Dallas, Texas, between an all-Big Six senior team, and an all-Southwest conference senior eleven, has been approved, the profits to go for the benefit of crippled children. Big Six conference athletic directors and faculty representatives meeting here approved the venture. The game will not affect the eligibility of the players for other sports this year. Coach Ernest E. Bearg, of the University of Nebraska, has been selected to coach the Big Six team.

Little Cash in Big Sports
Chicago—(IP)—There’s little money in professional sports, according to promoters who appeared before the city council here recently in opposition to a proposal to levy a 3 per cent tax on all professional sport gate receipts. In fact, the promoters stated, they have been losing money. William Veeck, president of the Chicago National League Baseball Club said that in 15 years the club has not paid a 6 per cent return on the investment. George Halas of the Chicago basketball team reported that the team has lost $10,000 during the past three seasons. W. J. Tobin, of the Chicago Black Hawks’ Hockey Team said his organization was $90,000 in debt, and promoters of bike racing, boxing, and other sports verified the consistent deficits.

Flu Back With Us
Elyria, Ohio—(IP)—Colleges and universities throughout the midwest found it expedient to close their doors early for the Christmas vacation this year because of the flu epidemic which swept the country. Curiously enough it was exactly ten years ago that the first flu epidemic struck the nation—and the world, although the first epidemic was of a much more serious nature, ending in many more fatalities. This year’s flu was of a mild nature, hardly distinguished in most cases from a hard cold.

Handball?
Atlanta—(IP)—Football is incorrectly named, according to Count Folke Bernadotte, nephew of King Gustav V, of Sweden, who was initiated into the game at the contest between Georgia and Georgia Tech. “The game is played with the hands,” he said. “But it’s a nice, pleasant sport, and not so rough.” His bride of a few days, the former Estelle Romaine Manville, of Pleasantville, N.Y., and President M. L. Brittain, of Georgia Tech, explained the technicalities of the game to him.

Columbia University—(CNA)—Women start to out-talk men early. Tests made by a member of the faculty of Columbia University on kindergarten pupils show the girls do two-thirds of the conversation, whether their parents are from east side or west side.

University of Missouri—(CNA)—Because of the prevalence of influenza, the University of Missouri was closed from Dec. 10 to January 3. The 100 beds in the university hospital were full, as well as twenty extra cots and many cases at the fraternity and sorority houses.

Ohio State University—(CNA)—A total of $11,513,195 has been requested of the state legislature for the maintenance of Ohio State University during the next two years. The budget has just been sent in. Two years ago, a total of $6,545,091 was appropriated for the institution for the two years which have just closed.

Akron, Ohio—(CNA)—Dr. A. A. Shaw, president of Denison University recently addressed the Akron Ministerial Association on the subject “The Church and Christian Education.”

Columbia University—(CNA)—Broadway actresses are no longer welcomed as class sponsors at Columbia University if an editorial in the Spectator, student newspaper, can be believed.Spectator said: “We think it quite possible that within a few years the undergraduates will find it impossible to go to class without the assistance of an actress. We believe that the presence of actresses detracts seriously from class affairs.” The editorial finished up with a request for the students advocating actress sponsors to consult the general campus opinion before continuing the practice.

Syracuse Student Found

Syracuse, N. Y.—(AP)—Kendall B. Hassard, Syracuse University junior and assistant manager of the Syracuse football team, was found at Columbus, Ohio more than a week after he disappeared from the campus here. The youth was recognized from descriptions by a policeman to whom he appealed for aid. Hassard told reporters that his mind went blank as he was climbing “Piety Hill” on which Syracuse University is located, about 9:30 the night of Dec. 4. He had gone for a walk, he said, eating medicine tablets for a headache which bothered him. The next thing he knew he was on a railroad coach approaching Pittsburgh. He arrived in Columbus the next day. He had forgotten his identity and appealed to a detective for aid. He first remembered who he was when his mother came to him, police said.

Club Causes Dispute

Pittsburgh, Pa.—(AP)—University of Pittsburgh authorities and the Liberal Club of the university have been in two controversies within two weeks. The first was over the recent appearance of Professor Scott Nearing, former member of the faculty, as lecturer before the club. The latest was in connection with the alleged censorship of placards, posted on campus bulletin boards, advertising the appearance of Atty. Arthur Garfield Hayes of New York City, counsel for the Civil Liberties Union, who was scheduled to address the club. Club members also said they had suggested the name of Clarence Darrow as a speaker before the club, but the issue of an invitation to Darrow had been forbidden by university heads.

Clash

Butler University—(CNC)—A library consisting of about 1,000 books, many of them very valuable, has been donated to Butler University by Mrs. Austin J. Denny. Mr. Denny was a graduate of old Northwestern Christian University in 1862.

More Women

(By CNC)—Enrollment in American colleges and universities has increased 25 percent in the last five years according to figures compiled from all institutions approved by the Association of American Universities. The figures show that the larger the school, the larger the gain in enrollment. The largest colleges exclusively for women are, in order of size: Hunter College, Smith College, Wellesley, Simmons, Vassar, Goucher, Mt. Holyoke, Radcliffe, and Randolph-Macon Women’s College. The number varies from under a thousand to over four thousand. The largest number of women in co-educational schools are in those of California, Wisconsin, Illinois, Minnesota, and Michigan.

Those Good Old Days

University—(CNC)—With $1.75 a week, the Syracuse student 15 years ago could live in luxury, according to statistics compiled in those days before the war. Then a student could hit a joint near the college, consume a small steak for a nickel and top it off with ice cream for three cents more. If he was really flush, he could have a porterhouse for 20 cents. A special Sunday rate for roast chicken was a quarter, chicken a-la-king being a dime.

Syracuse Campus Oil

University of Texas—(CNA)—The deepest hole ever drilled into the earth, according to university geological officials, is in the Big Lake field in Reagan County, on the property of the University of Texas. The well has reached a depth of 8,523 feet and is producing 500 barrels of oil per day and 8,000,000 cubic feet of gas.

Bradley College, at Peoria, Ill., is to give $25 for a new song. No doubt they are just beginning to realize that the world is no longer singing, “I wish I was in Peoria.”—AP.

Freshmen Try Hard

Oxford, Ohio—(AP)—The flu epidemic which has been closing up colleges and universities throughout the Midwest has reached the campus of Miami University and brought with it a wave of freshman tomfoolery. Learning that the university hospital was overcrowded and that several colleges in the Midwest had closed, Miami students were on a spree of pretended illness. A few have already been sent home because of overcrowding at the hospital, and many others, envious of those who were sent home to enjoy an extra week of Christmas vacation, mobbed the university clinic, hoping that something would be found wrong with them. Persistent rumors circulated the campus that classes would be dismissed early if the situation failed to improve. Emphatic denials, however, were given out by President A. H. Upham, who averred that nothing but an earthquake could shake him from his determination to keep classes going. An entire freshman dormitory paraded to the hospital for an examination, after having employed every conceivable method of assuming symptoms of influenza. Freshmen at Fisher Hall were reported to be practicing violent coughing. Others were wearing blotters in their shoes and rubbing moist tobacco in their armpits preparatory to going for an examination at the hospital. Someone told them they could in that way raise their temperature to a fever point. One freshman shook his head violently to acquire a headache. Then he hurried over to the clinic for an examination but received headache pills, not a vacation.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Walking Straight

Vienna—(CNA)—How to be a pedestrian is the latest school subject being taught in Vienna. The growing number of street accidents induced the authorities to make the laws of the traffic and of the street a separate branch of education. The pupils will be taught by practical demonstrations and visits to public buildings, how to walk, cross the street, and how to avoid the dangers of modern traffic.

Field Work

University of Chicago—(CNC)—The procedure known as “getting too fresh” was advanced by Herton O. Phillips, a postgraduate student at the University of Chicago, as one way of earning a college degree. Several young women complained that Phillips had been bold to the point of impudence and insult. Arrested, he explained that he was engaged in a special study leading to the degree of doctor of philosophy.

Strange Definitions

University of Chicago—(CNA)—A lot of graphic American words, now frowned on by the juries, are going to attain respectability in 15 or 20 years through the efforts of Professor William A. Craigie of the English department of the University of Chicago. Such words as “baloney” and “gangster” will be put into the historical dictionary now being compiled by Professor Craigie. He has finished the first step in going through three centuries of American papers to find when these typical words first appeared. In 15 or 20 years when you pick up his dictionary, you will come across many words recognized as being part of the language that are not heard in the best drawing rooms now. For instance, there will be “Baloney; a term signifying propaganda, balderdash or untruth. Originated in 1922 by Rube Goldberg, cartoonist.” “Bootleg” will be defined as illicit alcoholic beverage. Noah Webster, when he compiled his first perfectly good book, “high-hatted” many perfectly good American words among them “prairie,” Craigie said.

CAT TRAX

With spring football starting February first and track already under way, only the players of the hickory stick and old familiar horsehide need to be accounted for. Baseball practice will begin earlier than usual this spring. We believe this is to be Davidson’s big year in the great sport. Good material is on deck for infield and outer gardens, and with McInnis, Kugler, Meadows, Henderson, and Thompson to serve them up, we look for a big time when Cousin Rube Brandon yells “Play Ball.”

Co-Ed Cow-Girls

University of Texas—(CNA)—Riding down the bridal path has again become popular at the University of Texas. More than 50 co-eds have enrolled in the horseback riding classes conducted by Miss Helen Hall of Eden, university senior and proficient cowgirl. She induced the faculty to establish the course as a regular part of the physical culture work and give the co-eds credit for horseback riding.

COSMIC CHAOS (Continued from Page 2)

Unknown to most of the students of the college, a strange and picturesque figure has been seen roaming the campus during the wee small hours. Hat brim pulled low, a plaid scarf, coat collar raised above his ears, he shuns conversation. Shall Davidson be seized in the midst of a baffling mystery? Or is it some fellow classmate returning from the Great Unknown? Some have suggested the modern ghost of the skeleton supposed to be in one of the columns. Further, perhaps he has escaped from Flynn’s Weekly. Who knows?

In Heroes and Hero Worship, Carlyle ably discusses the true feeling toward a national or international figure who holds the admiration of the world. Along with brave men of the past ranks Marshal Foch, hero of the Argonne, perhaps the greatest battle in history. In his home in Paris, the famous soldier is waging his last fight. A man of the sword, he will draw the attention of great men of the pen by his death. Yet he will die with a smile on his lips, “Vive la France.”

HOTCHPOT (Continued from Page 2)

He marries early; his family usually runs from three to five children. He is a ready believer, inclined to swallow the pretty promises of quack doctors in medicine, in politics, in religion, and so on. He does not allow his limited knowledge to make him hesitant in his opinions; he will speak dogmatically about anything from cancer to the League of Nations. And yet democracy must depend on him!

Hey, buddy, got a match?
No, but you can use my lighter.
Don't kid me, how can I pick my teeth with a lighter?—Selected.

Judge: Are you guilty or not guilty?
Prisoner: How can I tell when I haven't heard the evidence yet?—Bradley Campus Cat.

The doctor who suggested that business men should pattern their lives after the little bee surely forgot that the little bee practices the art of stinging.

Drugs Medicines
Toilet Articles Kodaks
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Stationery Candies
Prescriptions A Specialty

Davidson Theatre

Monday, January 21st
“Dancing Vienna” BEN LYON

Tuesday, January 22nd
LILIAN GISH “The White Sister”

Wednesday, January 23rd
“Looping the Loop” PARAMOUNT PICTURE

Thursday, January 24th
“Foreign Legion” LEWIS STONE

Friday, January 25th
“Fugitive” MADGE BELLAMY

Saturday, January 26th
TOM MIX “Outlawed”