Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy, $1.75 per Collegiate Year. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

THE DAVIDSONIAN March 14, 1929

Davidsonian Nominations

The following men, listed alphabetically, have been recommended by the staff of The Davidsonian and will be voted on for the position of editor-in-chief next week:

BOB JARRATT
ZEB LONG
F. DEWOLFE MILLER
CHARLIE PRATT

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Editor by 7:00 p.m., otherwise articles will not be published.

OWN... Editor-in-Chief
WE ORR... Managing Editor
F. D. MILLER... Managing Editor
C. M. PRATT... Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT... Managing Editor
Z. V. LONG... Sports Editor
V. A. MILTON... News Editor
P. B. FRY... Society Editor
D. P. ANDERSON... Feature Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN... Assistant Editor
L. BROWN... Assistant Editor
J. R. LAKE... Associate Editor
B. MORIARITY... Associate Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
L. A. MILLS... Assistant Business Manager
E. H. McCALL... Assistant Business Manager
J. B. McGUIRE... Assistant Business Manager
J. FENNINGS... Subscription Manager
J. McLEAN... Advertising Solicitor
C. EVERINGTON... Advertising Solicitor
C. CANNON... Advertising Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. ELY... President
J. S. HEEPNER... Secretary-Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN
J. S. PRESTON
W. W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
S. S. S.
J. V. D. MIDDLETON
J. P. McBRYDE

THURSDAY, MARCH 14, 1929

The Davidsonian Wants
—to congratulate the student body’s new officers and the student body.
—everybody to continue to cast a vote throughout the remaining elections.
—to congratulate the newly elected members of Phi Beta Kappa.
—the Y. M. C. A.’s vocational guidance program backed by every man, and attendance at the excellent lectures and discussion groups from time to time.

WHOSE ANNUAL?
What seems to be a conspicuous inconsistency in student elections here is the manner of selection of the Quips and Cranks editor-in-chief. While the editor of The Davidsonian and The Chameleon are chosen by general student voting, the annual editor has customarily been elected by the rising Senior Class. Any objection to change in this procedure would probably be on the grounds that the book is a product of that class. But is this a fact? When every student, regardless of class, is taxed equally, and when the staff is selected partially from the lower classes, and when no more responsibility is assumed by the Seniors than by any other class, it is no more a privilege of that class to elect their editor than it is the student body’s.

There would be this advantage from a general election. The editor so chosen would then be the choice of a greater group and hence would be responsible to a larger number; and the underclassmen would be able to express their interest in a production just as truly theirs as the Senior’s. Regarding the business manager, the suggestion is offered that he be chosen just as the managers of other publications are, i.e., by the Publications Board upon recommendation of the retiring business manager, and thus, have the man elected by the group to which he is later responsible in either instance.

The publication of this book was evidently in the hands of the Senior Class in former years, but circumstances quite different have altered the situation, making the editorship a student body honor rather than a class distinction. Why not have the 1930 editor elected by the student body? It’s the student body’s annual.

Ambassador Morrow didn’t get a Cabinet position but he’s going to be Charlie Lindbergh’s father-in-law.

When nearly sixty-five men get honorary fraternity bids it looks like some organizations are about to go bankrupt. There are initiation fees, you know.

EDUCATING FOR PEACE
Upon nothing does world peace depend so much as on the obliteration of ignorance among mankind by a lasting and thorough system of education. Ignorance, misunderstanding, prejudice, narrow-mindedness, and sensuality have been, and will continue to be, the cause of human suffering and unhappiness in all lands. The dark veil hanging low over the heads of the people, obstructing the light of knowledge must be swept aside before values may be properly gauged and before sincere relations may be effected. This training must be given the youth of the day in the higher institutions of learning, inspiring a nobler idealism, free from selfish interests, and idealism which is world-wide in scope of consideration. Until this results, people will continue to blunder in the darkness of misconception and error; war will follow war; and man, in his unfortunate lack of knowledge, will make friction with his fellow. No League or international body imposed upon a recalcitrant and ignorant people will be of notable importance.

There are psychologists who contend that man has his instincts which cannot be altered. Man, they say, is inherently pugnacious, and no amount of enlightenment will drive this faculty from its stronghold. This, however, cannot be held in its entirety, for there are instincts which are constantly denied by action prompted largely through ideals arising from the education to which the individual has been subjected.

The mistakes and pitfalls in the thoughts and actions of the preceding generations may be seen when man is guided into the world of the past through the book of the historian; looking through the keen eye of science, his mind may dwell on the marvels of the universe; and being lifted from the misty marshlands to the breezes of the hilltop, the narrow bounds of nationalism, of class, of color, and of creed will disappear into thin air.

A SACRIFICE TO PROGRESS
When the columns of Old Chambers were destroyed last week, there passed from the scene of man one of the landmarks of the old time. The four columns had stood for more than seventy years, a monument to the lives and work of the founders of Davidson College. Now they are gone; destroyed because they marred the beauty of the New Chambers building. Such is the edict of progress. Everything that is in the way of the new must go, lest it detract from the usefulness and attractiveness of the modern. Such a spirit, it seems, is wrong. There is no recall of what has gone, but there is a chance to save the other monuments of the past. Some of the old buildings on the campus mean more to the lovers of the college than any new building that could be built. The spirit of progress could be better satisfied with the erection of needed buildings rather than by the destruction of old relics. Instead of tearing down, why not build up. Erect a new dormitory to take the place of the barracks. One is needed. Why not build a new and better gymnasium, to take the place of Alumni gymnasium? Let the old gym be used by the freshmen and a new one be built for the varsity—one that is modern in every respect, with suitable places for all the indoor sports. A swimming pool is needed. A new and more modern infirmary could very well be used. In the place of destruction, let the old and the new stand side by side, so that the old can lend dignity to the new and through itself give tradition to modernism. Everything new is good, but when age is mingled with youth, youth is made more cognizant of its shortcomings and takes on some of the respect and worthiness of the old. Sentiment asks for the retention of the old and progress and materialism demand the destruction. Which will win? Will the old buildings here remain serene in old age until they are a menace to our safety, or will they be offered up as a sacrifice to progress?

R. F. J.

Collegiate Quips
According to the Fordham “Ram”, its “No Kissing” Campaign during the late, and much lamented, flu epidemic saved at least half the school from the disease. Strange kind of students they have up there, or they must have some of the Republican campaign managers keeping training camp up there.

Wake Forest, and State colleges have also arrived among the honored. Both schools recently received letters addressed to “The Cutest Man In College.” The Wake Forest boys called it a joke, but the State boys are still looking for the culprit.A student body meeting was held to decide who was the rightful owner of a letter mistakenly delivered to one of the students at State College. The letter contained a request for college stickers from a girl undergoing initiation. This might explain the letter received by Davidson at the beginning of this school year.

Elon College was among the first to hold their elections and has already elected their new editor. At Elon, they have a tradition of selecting a sponsor for the paper and printing her picture at the start of the new regime. This seems like a good idea, but sometimes the sponsors are not as attractive as they should be.

Here is a poem that appeared in a recent issue of the Tattler, of R. M. W. C.:

INTIMACY
A laugh—a love—a book,
An undissembling look
A homely task that took
Us both, combined, to do.
A well-known mood—an arm
Becomes my shield from harm
A kiss—a mute alarm
Expressed in words so few.
A fumbling hand that aids—
A door we closed, some shades
Are drawn as daytime fades,
And shuts in just us two.

Gettysburg College: Co-eds up there are cleaning up. Charges of fraud against Gettysburg’s Postmaster seemed forthcoming for a short time Monday afternoon when a Federal department inspector, along with about twenty-five other spectators, found five Gettysburg co-eds cleaning the steps of the local post office with toothbrushes. The inspector, after an investigation, found that the young ladies were not being paid for the work and preferred to drop the charges. He found that the girls were pledges of Beta Lambda sorority and were merely being “put through their paces” prior to initiation. The co-eds, with his permission, continued with the work and did not cease until the entire front portico had been made as spotless as possible, with the postmaster and one of the town's political bosses supervising the job. Upon completion of that task, the pavements of Baltimore Street were made sanitary and safe for the inhabitants by having the cracks in the concrete scrubbed, also with toothbrushes. In doing this job, the five co-eds kept perfect step for the entire block.

This starts out dignified as a review of the college world, but various factors led us to change it. —Gargantua and Pantagruel.

A pedestrian is raw material for an accident.

“He cleaned up a fortune in crooked dough.”
“Counterfeiter?”
“No, pretzels.” —Exchange.

“Mose: ‘Ah wins.’
Gawge: ‘What yo got?’
Mose: ‘Free aces.’
Gawge: ‘Boy, you done lost.’
Mose: ‘What you got?’
Gawge: ‘Two nines and a razor.’
Mose: ‘You sho’ wins. How come you is so lucky?’” —Farm Journal.

Mistress: “Mary, your young man has such an air of insouciance about him.”
Mary: “Yes, poor lad—he works in a livery stable.” —Pure Oil News.

“I’ve never seen a nutty hen
And never hope to see one.
But from the eggs served now and then
I know that there must be one.”

WANTON WILES
By Dave Anderson

THE BULL PEN
The trustees meet and decide to have the columns of Old Chambers removed. The wrecking crew hooks a cable around the beloved structures, the steam thumps, and down come the traditions, scattering homemade (or was it handmade?) bricks about. Bricks like mother used to cook, don'tcha know. Crowds of students and faculty stood about watching the work and waiting patiently for the toppling of the columns. Everyone was expecting anything from a horse and buggy to the kitchen stove to be found stored in the hollow portions of these 80-year-old structures. They found nothing more than what can be found within the limits of this well-named Bull Pen—hot air! When the wreckage told the truth about the stories of skeletons, tobacco, and whiskey of ye olden days stored away in the hollow depths of “these ancient columns, so rich in tradition,” immediately some of the ancients began to remember when the hidden booty was removed. One of the “gentlemen of color” about the college claims that he had himself lowered into the columns and removed a bunch of traditions. But then this same bit of local color vows on a stack of dictionaries that he will be the next President of Davidson and will install pre-war bars in the basements of all dormitories. We believe that he will continue his job of making beds and sweeping rooms. Still, one must credit the Negro race with very vivid imaginative qualities. Bars in the basements of Davidson College dormitories!

“Do you want that asparagus on toast?”
“No! Bring it on a flat-car.”

ASSORTED SHORTS
When a fellow is in love, everything looks entirely different to him. But then, it’s the same way when he hits his head on a cement pavement.

The freshmen have been given the privilege of going around minus their “red-tops.” We can remember way back when we “took our caps off.” The first few days, when we walked out minus the frosh cap, we felt we had left something. After being sure we had our pants on, had not forgotten our shirt, and were wearing shoes, it would finally dawn on us that the cap was the missing article.

Just about the time when the freshman thinks he is really progressing in this thing called college, Soph Day pops up. It won’t be long now! Two more days of practice and we could have ridden our stick horse better than Cal Coolidge can ride his hobby-horse.

Dumb: Belle: “Ith dich, See Teed.”

ADVICE TO GIRLS
Maryland, U. S. A.
Dear Miss Prude,
I am engaged to a Davidson man; in fact, I have been for over eight months and as yet have not let him kiss me, though I am sure he has wanted to numerous times. Please tell me how soon I can let him and advise me how to act toward him. I love him as much as it is possible for any girl to love a college man, but I am not sure he reciprocates. For that reason, I have refused to let him kiss me. Knowing that you would give only the best advice, I now await your answer.
P. S. I am a faithful reader of your notes to girls and get a kick out of your advice, so please answer this.
“Curious”

Dear Curious,
My child, it is not you who needs advice. Your Davidson man needs it—if all you say is true. Eight months and he hasn’t kissed you! Of course, Maryland is a long way off and no man was ever fond of long-distance loving, but considering the old Davidson custom of traveling via the “Hey, Mister!” method, it is safe to say he has been to see you some in that time. Get him to write for my booklets on “Loving and How” and “The Ladies to Trip Over.” Send money for express (they are not allowed through the mails). As for your part, just wait until he studies these pamphlets. He could convince a telephone post of his love after reading these marvelous works.
Yours very truly,
Little Miss Prudie.

Miss Prudie will probably not be able to appear next week. It may interest our gentle readers and the deans to know that Miss Prudie is considered very educated. She has only three and a half inches more of the five-foot shelf of books to read.

A Florist advertises: “We guarantee these century plants to live a hundred years. If they don’t, bring them right back and get your money.” —Breeze.

Hobo: “You say that your ancestors were killed in the War of the Roses?”
Hobo: “Oh, yes. For several generations, the family was extinct.”

Mother: “Why, Grace, how did you get so messed up out riding?”
Grace: “I rode in a rumble seat.” —Ex.

I hear the zoologists found a lamb in South America that could run forty miles an hour.
“That’s the only kind that could keep up with Mary nowadays!” —Mug.

The Victim (as barber cuts him for the fourth time): “You’d better give me a razor too, so that I can protect myself.” —Ex.

Although there are many diseases prevalent in the country, by far the most common is high-blonde pressure.

Co-Ed: “Shall we waltz?”
Soph: “It’s all the same to me.”
Co-Ed: “Yes, I’ve noticed that.” —Alberta Gateway.

“John, dear, I am to be in the amateur theatricals. What would folks say if I were to wear tights?”
“They would probably say that I married you for your money.”

Contemporary Thought
COLLEGE AND COLLEGIATE
What is the real meaning of college? Anyone who has gone or is going there certainly knows. Of course, there are football games and dances and rallies, and all the things which go to make up college life. But back of all this is a purpose which reaches towards something higher and is the real reason why students go to college. It is a little world in itself, which is preparing us for a bigger life later on. There is plenty of time for fun and good times along with the more serious interests of college life, but these lighter activities, which are the composition of collegiate atmosphere, are only a side track in the big issue which keeps students working and striving, in spite of all obstacles. There is a goal ahead for all of us, and college represents the gateway through which we pass on the way towards the realization of our ambitions.

College and Collegiate, what a difference there is between them and yet how many people think they are inseparable. Collegiate spells an atmosphere of carefree youth out for a good time, with nothing more to do than ride around in Harold Teen’s Ford, wear spectacular clothes, go to football games and dances, and get all the fun possible out of life. Being collegiate covers a multitude of sins, and every new fad, no matter how impossible, is smilingly received by the public because it has been introduced by the word collegiate. To people who have never been to college, or who are not connected with it in any way, collegiate means college.