+ \ a ae w THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 26, 1929 — —— THE DAVIDSONIAN Published Weekly by the Students of
Davidson College FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915 SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as
second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina. Publication must be in the hands of the editors by
7:00 p. m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not be published.

Managing Editor ZEB V. LONG, Jr.
Editor-in-Chief E. H. McCONNELL

EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
Feature Editor
Feature Editor
Assistant Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. CANNON Asst. Bus. Mgr.
J. MOURON Asst. Bus. Mgr.
G. D. EVERINGTON Asst. Bus. Mgr.
L. L. BOYD Subscription Mgr.
A. J. BAKER Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY Solicitor
E. L. MURRISON Solicitor
J. L. SEVIER Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
S. HUFNER President
W. G. McGINNIS Vice-President
J. V. D. MIDDLETON Secretary-Treasurer
J. G. BERRY
G. PEPPER
J. C. MATTHEWS
G. DUNKLIN
G. MARTIN
W. S. LEA
J. R. SMITH
C. W. F. SPENCER
D. G. STEPHENSON
W. T. HANCOCK
A. H. WHITEHEAD
JOHN M. BROWN
R. F. NORTON
G. P. PARDINGTON
C. B. TOMKINS

SEPTEMBER 26, 1929

PAN-HELLENIC RULES
In accordance with a rule passed by the fraternities on the Hill, you will please not talk to any fraternity
man on matters pertaining to a fraternity until 7:00 p. m., Tuesday, October 1, but will consider the matter of
this invitation either by yourself or with anyone whom you know is not a member of any fraternity. If you
receive more than one invitation you are to talk with not more than two men from each fraternity from which
you have received an invitation. You shall be allowed to talk with each pair of men not longer than one-half
hour. After you have talked with the representatives of each said fraternity you shall be allowed a half hour to
consider the matter, during which, or before which time, nothing you say will be considered as a promise for membership.
If after the half hour has expired you desire to join one of the inviting fraternities you may go to
one of its members and pledge yourself. After each interview you should return at once to your room where you
may be found by the next fraternity which has an interview with you. You will please adhere strictly to these
rules for your own protection.

APPRECIATION
As the days speed along toward accomplishment of the various college exercises, a spirit of co-operation with and approval of
the new administration is very evident in the student body. It seems that on every hand there is a new
willingness to take the part of the college, to support her programs, and to make the living of her glorious
traditions somewhat more of a practice than a fancy to be idealized. Not only is the above statement true of
the student body as a whole, but the individual Davidson man is occupying his rightful position as the most vital
factor in the spirit and success of the institution.

We believe that the incoming administration, headed by Dr. Walter L. Lingle has entered whole heartedly into every interest of
the students, and is evincing a genuine desire to create an exceedingly close bond of understanding between the college and
her men. The students appreciate such an attitude, and the fact is made evident to a close observer of student
body thought and reactions. Happy days and fruitful ones, from every standpoint of college life seem to be the promise
which the future holds. In concrete works and in the greater work of prolonging nearly a hundred years of noble
and inspiring college thought, the coming days will indeed be rich.

Something of a pledge from the student at large might be comforting and helpful to Dr. Lingle and his co-workers
as they face the constant challenge of college life. Speaking for every man on the Davidson campus, and pledging constant
devotion and willingness to serve, the news organ of Davidson extends its greeting and its appreciation to those chosen to
guide the destinies of a great institution.

DR. LINGLE’S CODE
The following editorial from The Charlotte Observer is printed here for the benefit of those who may not have seen
it in its original appearance. The article sums up very well indeed the points of Dr. Walter L. Lingle’s opening
address to the freshmen, and the merit of those points may well be reviewed by every member of the student
body:

It was an old-fashioned talk by an old-fashioned educator the students assembling at Davidson College heard when Dr. Lingle, president
of that institution, advised how they could get “the best” out of college life, starting them right with the suggestion
that they fall in love with their studies. The student who gives these first place in his consideration is the
student who is sure to get the best of college advantages. Development of the personality, Dr. Lingle advised, is an
asset largely to be desired, for, as the president maintained, personality is the most wonderful thing in the world and
a man’s success in life depends more largely on that single factor than upon any other, and it is easily
developed. Dr. Lingle advised that their studies will help the students, the imprint of other personalities will help, the cultivation
of personal appearance and manners will help, and there is the finishing up requirement of development of mind, soul and
body. In short, the student who may hope to reap the greater success must acquire and hold to the qualifications
that make the gentleman.

Dr. Lingle would discount the habit of idleness and waste of time and he particularly advised against a custom that
has become common in the college life of today. He advised students not to spend their time in “road-flagging and
hitch-hiking to the ends of the earth. That must be pleasant and exciting, but the college can not mean much
to you if you are away from it most of the time. Do not spend too much time in mere
amusements, for all play and no work makes Jack a duller boy. Do not spend your time loafing around the
drug stores, post office, or in someone else’s room. If you do, you have not only succeeded in wasting your
time and the other student’s time, but, incidentally, you will have succeeded in boring a good many people during the
year.”

Nor was the new president of Davidson unmindful of the perils of jazzism. He visualized some students wasting time in
going to dances and other social functions, to neglect of study, and he even saw some mixing whiskey in with
the dances, under belief that they were having “a good time,” but he warned that in doing so, they were
far from getting the best out of the college. He is a believer in college athletics, but holds that students
may go to excesses in that direction, as well as in others. He would give athletics proper place in college
life, but he would not let games and contests monopolize all the time of the students any more than he
would want to see their whole time concentrated on Latin, Greek, mathematics or any other one thing. The idea Dr.
Lingle evidently wanted to impress upon the minds of the students is that they should be all-around good college boys,
in love with their studies, with a healthy amount of recreation, but with a mind devoted to college work and
to utilization of time to the best advantage. And it is a certain eventuality that the student who takes the
words of Dr. Lingle into serious consideration and adopts his code as his own, will leave the college doors benefited
by the best the college has had to give.

ALL TOGETHER
Saturday’s exodus to Independence Park is a significant one, the interest centering in the ability of Monk Younger’s Wildcats to
do battle with a team which is rated high in the Southern Conference, a fact which speaks for itself. Not
“The Lady or the Tiger?” this time but “The Tiger or the Wildcat?”

Davidson faces the same problem this season which has troubled her during the greater part of her gridiron history, namely
the necessity of throwing a light eleven against a schedule which is not excelled by any of the larger colleges.
There is no question as to the fact that Davidson must meet teams of high rank, and incidentally, great weight,
if she is to continue in the first class of intercollegiate competition. The great hope is that each succeeding year
will bring better material to the coaching staff, and that soon Davidson’s squads will be able to give and take
with an even chance of winning. However, one fact is constant. No Davidson team will ever take the field without
the undivided support, admiration, and inspiration of the students in the stands and on the sidelines. The fact that the
spirit of the Wildcat has been felt to the ends of the earth isOnly added proof that Davidson men back
their teams to the limit. A victory has been more glorious and a defeat more bearable because the spirit of
sportsmanship has been supreme in Wildcat athletics. The game Saturday will be no exception to the precedent of the years.
Old men know only too well what is expected of them—they appreciate their debt to the college.

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

One encouraging fact about the news game, even though we are in the race for the world’s lowest paid columnist,
is that Edward Alger would never have been able to write the story about the poor printer’s devil who became
famous. Scripps and Howard both began their careers by selling papers on the streets of Cleveland. They weren’t even printer’s
devils. Today they own one of the greatest chains of newspapers in the world. And they are both young men.
Don’t sell Davidson, The Davidsonian, or America short!

How the mighty have fallen! “Boy King Michael” of Roumania was recently sent home from school with a note stating
that he couldn’t behave. The days of the “Prugelknaben” have gone. Even though royalty cuts up, it must be punished
for its own pranks. And it occurs to us that we heard something about Senator Heflin’s son not so very
long ago.

Speaking of those who have been somewhat deposed; it looks like Campus Football is in for a bad season. The
new Physical “Ed” class hit it a hard enough blow, but it took something new to add the finishing touches.
Everybody’s yo-yoing now. If you are socially, scholastically, athletically, ascetically, or hermitically inclined, there is one answer. Yo-yo!!!

Gaston county appears to be having its wars, rebellions, revolutions, et cetera. Communism sounds good to those who have nothing
to share with the other fellow, but when it comes to splitting everything one has with everyone else, the aspect
changes. The so-called “reds” success is doubtful, but it must be admitted that a few of them are sharing their
meals together at the expense of the state. And here’s betting that the coffee is weak and that the salt
won’t shake.

Well, it might be the weather, Col. Charles Augustus Lindbergh just absolutely refuses to keep out of the limelight. Flitting
hither and yon, accompanied by his better half, he has at least rid himself of the cognomen of “The Lone
Eagle.” We cannot help but wonder if that facet has anything to do with the record-breaking trips which the Colonel
has been making of late. Maybe, he’s just glad to be “down and out.”

It was recently announced that the somewhat notorious Rothstein, gentleman of fortune, was killed over a poker game. Some authorities
maintain that the brawl was over a comparatively small sum. Jerry, the Greek, has not yet met his fate, but
it would not prove surprising if it would prove similar. Men, professional leeches, who live entirely on the misfortunes of
the “poor sucker,” do not generally last long. The worm will turn.

According to advice proffered O. O. McIntyre, a columnist should prove genial, witty, resourceful, intelligent and confidential. For lack of
the other qualities, it remains for us to divulge a few of our pet desires. It has been and is
our secret ambition to:
- See the Chambers Maid slip on the “Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas” inscription.
- Get a course in yo-yoing.
- Find Joe Gardner’s study.
- Beat Clemson, Saturday.
- Whip Army worse than Clemson.
- See Richard Haliburton and Ripley get together.
- Pet the Police Dog of one of the Professors.
- Find some mail in the box every day.
- Have somebody read this column.

And as for the others—well, you have no idea!

“Come on, Jake, let’s go to see Eddie Cantor in ‘Whoopee’ tonight.”
“I don’t want to see him,” replied Moe, a buyer from Scranton.
“Why not? He’s very comical.”
“Nope, I don’t think so. I saw an imitation of him last week and he’s terrible.”
—New York Evening Graphic.

Mother: “Will you please keep quiet, son? My head is just about to split!”
Small Boy: “If I keep quiet can I see it split?”
—Life.

“Now there’s what I call a fine servant.”
“Yes, he’s been in our family for hours.”
—Life.

Arch Optimist: “The movie fan who started studying Swedish because some day he hoped to marry Greta Garbo.”
—Life.

Will be out not only in person, but filled with the cooperation and zeal which characterizes the Davidsonian. To the
freshman, especially, is this appeal directed. Get started Saturday in the path of the Wildcat. Never give up your hopes,
faith, or admiration for coaches and team. Let those men feel that they are not going down under that kickoff
alone but that in the beat of their cleats upon the turf sounds also the victory chorus of six hundred
brothers.

Smokehouse Sago
By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weekly)

SPASM THE FIRST

Oy, oy, such a life! The editor of this filthy sheet just caught me entirely unawares and demanded that I
forthwith get to work and rip off a couple of pages of bull. It seems that the advertisements had given
out and he just had to have something to fill up all of that bare, snowy white space. Well, that
explains this. I got even with the editor, however. At breakfast this morning, I ate Grape Nuts and then played
his harmonica, thereby ruining the musical qualities of the aforesaid instrument.

But now to get down to the main purpose of this column—filling up space. It’s mighty hard to indulge in
any form of serious thought on this campus when you've got to keep your eyes open for stray, runaway Yo-Yos.
A census would reveal an average of no less than three Yo-Yos per square foot in the dormitories, so it
won’t be long before warnings will be posted such as “Danger! Beware of the Yo-Yo. Do not stick your head
out of the window.” A Yo-Yo at rest is a tame, servile, little pet, but once set into motion, it
becomes a beast of prey. The nights are made horrible by the screams of the unfortunate victims who have been
clonked on the conk by one (or more) of these flying Juggernauts. Conditions are rapidly becoming so bad that you
can’t walk down the street without being stopped by an addict who wants to show you a new trick. This
naturally necessitates a wait while he fishes the little dickens out of a tree and goes to look for some
more string. This is your cue to sneak off to safety. Doubtless, by Christmas, all of the trees on our
campus will be gaily decked out with these many colored balls hanging from their branches. However, at best, a Yo-Yo
this far out of its native element is a pathetic spectacle indeed. This fad would seem to indicate a sudden
return to childhood, but—you’ll do it some day, so why not now? At least it’s less destructive than yanking trolleys
or plugging door-bells.

What this column needs is bigger and better jokes. Maybe a contest would bring in a few good ones. Maybe—who
knows? Anyway, I’ve decided to run a little contest of my own. How would this work?

NOTICE! NOTICE! NOTICE!
The editor of this column will present to the one who turns in the best joke (or other forms of
space filler) by Saturday night full rights and privileges to all chewing gum found under seats 1 through 7 of
row B in the left center section of the new auditorium. In case of a tie, both of the winners
will get a separate row. Turn in your wheezes early and avoid the rush. The line forms on the left.

SECOND WORSE

Let’s open the meeting by yodeling that famous old salt water ballad: “Never go around with another man's wife unless
you can go two rounds with her husband.” Or maybe you'd prefer that soul-stirring anthem: “If you can’t make both
ends meet, make one end vegetable.”

Say, boss, where’s the India Rubber Man?
Oh, The Giant just made a slingshot out of him.

She: Darling, whisper sweet nothings in my ear.
He: O. K., “Sweet nothings.”

With bystanders shouting, flagmen waving, horns honking and bells ringing, some engineers still fail to stop and wait for an
auto to pass.

Too Long a Wait
Usher: “How many, please?”
Exasperated Person: “There were five of us but three died.”
—Life.

Her Best Friend (sweetly): “What, another Paris gown, my dear? How clever you are with your needle!”
—Tid-Bits.

TO THE NEW MEN

“The Davidsonian” invites every new man to exercise his talents as a news writer or composer by lining up for
work on the college newspaper. Previous experience in writing, while helpful, is not necessary, and the chief factors in success
are faithfulness and concentrated effort. Every candidate enjoys equal opportunity, and good work brings its reward. News writing is one
of the most profitable and, at the same time, interesting of the campus activities. It is productive of keener minds,
deeper appreciation of surrounding circumstances, and a real sense of responsibility in presenting facts in their true light. It is
an excellent parallel work for regular college studies, since its execution demands and develops varied expression.

New men desiring to align themselves with “The Davidsonian” will please see me at my room, No. 17 Georgia.

ZEB. V. LONG, Editor.
