2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

Many Interesting Books Added To Library Files
Psychological Subjects Are Most Popular With Two Best Sellers Included

A list of several of the latest additions to the college bookshelves with comments on some of them.

1. “Education for Moral Growth” by Henry Neuman, Ph.D. Of interest to the student for its ethical training.
2. “William Blake,” a book of poems from the Oxford University Press.
3. “Gestalt Psychology,” by Dr. Wolfgang Kohler. The most important contribution to this science since William James.
4. “History of Psychology,” W. B. Pillsbury, Ph.D. Records the development of psychological thinking.
5. “About Ourselves,” by H. A. Overstreet for normal people only.
6. “A Celtic Anthology,” by Grace Rhys. Very valuable for reference work.
7. “West-Running Brook,” by Robert Frost.
8. “Maintain Interval,” by Robert Frost.
9. “The Trial of Life in College” by Rufus M. Jones. Answers many of the problems of youth.
10. “Finding the Trail of Life” by Rufus M. Jones. A young man’s religion.
11. “Ultima Thule,” by Henry Handel Richardson. “If our age has produced a masterpiece at all, this is a masterpiece,” so says the London Daily News. The first printings of this book were all sold on publication day.
12. “All Quiet on the Western Front,” by Erich Maria Remarque. Of this remarkable book, 400,000 copies were sold in Germany; in England, five huge editions were required to meet the demand, and in America, the first printing alone was of 100,000 copies. When 18 years old, the author went from school into the German army and then to the western front. The book tells plainly of the horror which blighted the lives of a whole generation, affecting terribly those whom it did not actually kill. Often it is crude because of the bald truth and frequently it rises to an incredible degree of tragedy. No reader will be left unmoved.

Seniors and Sophs Win Cage Contests

In the first inter-class game of the season, the Senior Basketball team romped over the Freshmen last Friday night. Although the Fresh put up a hard fight, they were outplayed from the start, and when the final whistle blew, the score was 30 to 10 in favor of the dignified ones. The lineups were as follows:

Freshmen
Seniors
Roberts
Moore
Bettis
McGavock
Nichols
Calhoun
Meyers
Miller
Calhoun
Heefner
Broach
Alden
Preatus
Marsh
Baugham
Brown
Campbell
Watts
Covington

The same night marked the victory of the Sophomores over the Juniors. The younger class practically doubled the score of the 23-12 being the final count. Martin and Shepard were the individual stars of the evening, the former being on the Soph team, and the latter flashing for the older class. The lineups were:

Sophomores
Juniors
Martin
Corbett
Montgomery
Caldwell
McGehee
Wilson
Gilbert
Smith
Curtis
Shepard
Arnold
Hogue

Harrison Wins Frat Scholarship Honor

W. W. Harrison, York, S. C., a member of the Senior Class, has attained an honor bestowed by his fraternity, Pi Kappa Phi, for good scholarship. He received the scholarship key of the fraternity a week ago. Each year Pi Kappa Phi awards this key to a small group of men who have attained a high average in their college studies. Occasionally the recipient of the key is a post-graduate student at some institution, but usually, as in Harrison’s case, he is an undergraduate. Each year, the various chapters of the fraternity send in reports concerning the scholastic standing of its members to the National Committee on Scholarship. These individual reports are filed, and in their senior year, or later, a number of men boasting the highest averages are recognized by the award of the Pi Kappa Phi Scholarship Key.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, Davidson President, who has been visiting and addressing various sections of the South.

Dr. Lingle Speaks Often On Visit To Greensboro

During the past week, October 22-27, the people of Greensboro had the pleasure of hearing Dr. W. L. Lingle, President of Davidson College. Doctor Lingle preached twice a day, excluding Saturday, at the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Greensboro. Each day at noon he lectured on “The History and Doctrines of the Presbyterian Church.” Tuesday, October 22, Doctor Lingle spoke to the students of Guilford College, which is six miles from Greensboro. He was cordially received by the faculty and student body of that school. While in Guilford, he had the opportunity of visiting the old Guilford courthouse, which was the scene of a decisive battle of the Revolutionary War. On Saturday, Doctor Lingle attended a luncheon given by the Chamber of Commerce of Greensboro, at the King Cotton Hotel, for the faculty of Wake Forest and Davidson. He was also an interested spectator at the Davidson-Wake Forest game, Saturday afternoon. During his stay in the city, Doctor Lingle was the guest of Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Wharton. He was very much interested in the work of Mr. Wharton, who has done much in cultivating inter-racial good will, and who has done much for the education of the colored race.

WHERE IS NO PLEASURE

The greatest sages give the simplest counsels. Here is Dr. Charles M. Wharton, director of health and of physical education at the University of Pennsylvania, who for thirty years has been training athletes and keeping college men in fettle. One might suppose that he would recommend elaborate systems of body-building; but the sum of his advice is this: “Exercise is best when it is relaxed play.” He warns against regarding it as a panacea for human ills; declares that the quest for the fountain of youth by way of exercise and diet “have been commercialized to a point of hysteria;” describes starvation diets as “assaults on health;” pronounces the early morning hours “the worst time of day” for physical efforts; and stresses, above all, that exercise does most good “when it is pleasure and not work, when it comes, as it were, of itself and is not merely self-imposed.”as a stern duty.” In this last opinion he is supported by so high an authority on all things human as Shakespeare, who observed, “No profit grows where is no pleasure ta’en.” Intellectual pursuits and spiritual endeavors, as well as physical culture, lose the larger and certainly the happier part of their merit when undertaken in a mood of grim-visaged war or owlish solemnity, rather than with a high heart and a tang of adventure. “Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers.” Life comes from living abundantly, not from insisting that every output shall have its income. Only the cheerful giver is lovable, only the joyful labor is art, only the spirit of eternal childhood enters the kingdom of heaven.

“Is your roommate absent-minded?”
“Absent-minded? Why, man, he'll go to the post office to mail a letter he hasn’t ever written.”

Customer: “Do you really think sardines are healthy?”
Grocer: “Well, ma’am; I never heard one complain.”

Whittle Leads Field Of Decathlon Contestants
Brannon and Lafferty Are Next in Order in Running Events

Recent reports from the track decathlon indicate that the men are running the various events in good time. The purpose of this meet is to find the best all-round track man. The following is a schedule of twelve events and the qualifying distances and times.

Track
100 yd dash—13 sec.; 300 yd. dash—40 sec.; 880 yd. run—2 min, 30 sec.; Mile run—6 min.; 2 mile run—12 min. 15 sec.; 120 low hurdles—20 sec.

Field
High Jump—4 ft.; Broad jump—15 ft.; Shot put—25 ft.; Discus throw—75 ft.; Javelin throw—100 ft.; Pole vault—6 ft.

From these six running and six field events anyone may select five of each. Although the field events have not been held, the running events have been completed and the following is a list of the winners.

100 yd. dash—Whittle; 300 yd. dash—Whittle; 880 yd. run—Lafferty; Mile run—Brannon; 2 mile run—Brannon; 120 low hurdle—Whittle.

Other men who have points are Neal, Earle, Norton, Gwyn, Goodwin, and Love. Thirty men are competing, and from this number there are a number of good prospects for the track team. A trophy is to be rewarded to the high point man. This prize is now on display in the White Drug Company window.

“Say, that guy Oscar was so lubricated last night that he sold the post office.”
“Well, why so down in the mouth about it?”
“Because I bought it.”

“FRESHMAN” or The Reign of the Sophomore
By O. G. Howitt Hurtz, ’23

“Are you ‘horsing’ me, fresh?” queries the soph. “Come up to my room tonight at nine o'clock,” he continues, and then, with a pause to allow his command and threat to sink in, he stalks majestically away. We freshmen don’t mind these little episodes, for we know that the same sophomore, and every other one on the hill, often wish that they were back in our shoes again. We know these sophomores even better than they know themselves, and then we don’t know much. It’s a gripe for them to take offense at our “horsing;” it’s too much of a strain; they can’t live the easy life of a freshman, one who does not pretend to know anything, to have any rights, who is never taken into consideration. Our life is as soft as the red clay mud in front of the Students’ Store after a rain.

Not so long ago I walked into a sophomore’s room and there he was with his old dusty fresh cap, tattered, but the reminder of wonderful days, cocked back on his head with the bill turned up in front. Forgetting himself for the moment, he turned around to me and said, “Don't I look hot in this! Boy, it’s keen!” There it was as plain as day; he had given himself away.

The freshman has a comeback for his treatment. Last Monday I heard a worthy member of our class say to an upperclassman, “Say, you had better treat me nice. When you send your children back to Davidson, it will be too bad for them. I may be a sophomore by then.” See, we have them there. You know about the sins of the father. Then again we get to sit down in front at the pep meetings while the upperclassmen perch on the backs of the benches in the back of the auditorium. Some class to this class!

HAVE A FRAGRANT INTERLUDE—CAMEL
Let Camels help to make your day by breaking it with pleasant interludes, with little pauses given over to cool fragrance and rich aroma. Call a halt now and then and accent the intervals between one thing and another. There’s always extra enjoyment in a day whose turns and twists are punctuated with Camels. You'll find Camels always give you a little more pleasure because the choicest tobaccos grown are blended with expert care. Camels are mellow and mild, cool and refreshing... their fragrance is always pleasant, indoors and out... they never tire your taste nor leave any after-taste.

© 1929, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.