ET no man presume to give advice to others who has not first given good counsel to himself. —Seneca.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

WHAT IS YOUR LIFE’S VOCATION?

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 21, 1929 No. 18

JUNIOR SPEAKING COMMITTEES ARE CHOSEN BY CLASS
Program Commences With Oratoricals on Thursday Night MARCH 21-23
Long-Delayed “Junior Follies” Will be Prescribed on Saturday Night

Junior Speaking will be held, as previously announced, on the week-end of March 23, with a full program now being
arranged by committees appointed last week. As announced in this paper weeks ago the date was changed from March 16
to March 23 owing to a trip being made by the Glee Club and orchestra on the former date. One
month after Senior Week-end the Juniors will hold forth in their annual frolic.

The committees appointed last week by Murray Christian, chairman of Junior Speaking, are named as follows: “Davidsonian” Committee, C. M.
Pratt, chairman; F. D. Miller, V. A. Milton, and R. F. Jarratt; Committee on Oratoricals, C. R. Pritchett, chairman; E.
E. Marsh, and H. W. White; Entertainment Committee, R. B. Erckman, chairman; L. A. Mills, W. R. Hill, and W.
H. Best. These committees together with W. B. McGuire, manager of the Junior Follies, will have full charge of the
week-end entertainments.

The program for the entire Junior Speaking will then, probably, begin with the Oratoricals on Thursday night. This is held
open to Juniors only, in the form of a contest for the best speakers in the class. The oratoricals will
open the week-end festivities and entertainment will be furnished from the night of March 21 until Saturday night, March 23,
by the Class of 1930. Friday night in Shearer Hall the Dramatic Club of Davidson College will present a play.
The title of this play has not been decided upon as yet but the play itself will be of a
dramatic nature. Following the play, the entertainment will be arranged in Charlotte.

(Continued on page 4)

DR. RULE DELIVERS TALK AT VESPERS
Discusses Present World Conflict of Christianity and Secularism

“The great conflict before the world today in all lands is being fought by the opposing forces of secularism and
Christianity,” declared Dr. Andrew K. Rule, Professor of Church History and Apologetics in Louisville Theological Seminary, at Vespers Sunday evening.

Basing his message on the ninth chapter of Isaiah, the speaker proceeded to show how part of the prophecy contained
in the passage has been fulfilled and how other portions are now being fulfilled. Drawing from his experiences and study
during extensive travel in Europe and the Orient, Dr. Rule sketched the religious situations prevailing in the leading countries of
the world.

China, the land of unrest and turmoil, was first considered. In this land, little understood by the western mind, there
is a transition from the old village system of economy to the modern industrial system, and confusion is to be
expected. “God help the world if she turns all her potential human and material resources toward the goal of imperialism;
only the power of Christianity can prevent her taking such a course.”

Likewise in America, the great struggle is between the forces of secularism and Christianity. The belief that science is a
philosophy rather than a policy is one that must be opposed. Our military leaders and politicians have failed to secure
peace; only the Spirit of Jesus Christ remains to transform this nation and others. Otherwise, they cannot be trusted with
the stupendous powers on the point of being released by science.

In Europe and the rest of the world, it is a “bonnie fight;” first one side seems to be winning,
then the other. It is indeed a fight sufficient to challenge the best that is in any man, whether he
be called to answer that challenge in the ministry or in digging ditches.

Wildkittens Return From Extended Trip With Fair Results
Two One Point Losses Sustained By Kittens in Six Games

On this week's trip of six games, the Davidson Fresh won two and lost four games. However, two of these
four losses were by one point margins and the others were lost only after a hard fight.

The Wildkittens began this series of games with a defeat at the hands of the Oak Ridge cadets. Although this
was the second victory for the cadets in a row, the Fresh put up a plausible fight. Captain Hutaff and
Mathis did good work, tying for high score with 7 points each. The final score was Oak Ridge 40, Davidson
Fresh 28.

The next contest was a second game with V. P. I. rats and the Kittens again downed them by a
score of 35 to 24. The whole team put up a good game but Milton starred as high scorer with
14 points.

The V. M. I. Freshmen were victors by a one point margin, 34 to 33 in the next game of
the trip. Hutaff and Mathis were undoubtedly outstanding in this game with 12 and 15 points, respectively.

It now seems that Dame Luck was against the Fresh and a second successive one point defeat was suffered at
the hands of the strong W. & L. Freshman outfit. The final score was 39 to 38. Captain Hutaff again
showed up well with a high score of 11 points. Martin also played a good game, running Hutaff a close
second for high score with 10 points to his credit.

A third close game was lost by the Kittens when the University of Virginia first yearmen handed them a defeat
to the tune of 27 to 22. Milton and Mathis played a good game for the Fresh.

In the final game of the trip, the Kittens won an easy victory over the Lynchburg College Reserves—31 to 17.
Capt. Hutaff led the scoring attack of his mates with a total of twelve points.

FULL MOON WILL LEND GLAMOUR TO WEEK-END

There's going to be weather whether or not, but from all information procurable from the Weather Bureau, the omens seem
auspicious for fair and propitious weather over the senior week-end. At any rate, come weal or woe, the movement of
the heavenly bodies has so ordained that the moon will be in full exactly on the night of Saturday, February
the 23rd, and that is the date set for senior dating.

Now the faculty committees still remain reticent on the style of the entertainment. Some choose to interpret this silence as
the stillness before the storm. Be that as it may, everything is in suspense, and suspense tends for excitement. According
to the most authentic rumors abroad the seniors will feast with their fair visitors at the hotel at a 6:00
o'clock dinner. Then it is whispered that from there they will proceed to the gymnasium at 8:00 o'clock where—well it
just can’t be said what will happen there. There have been intimations that there will be a squa—but the indefiniteness
lends charm to the affair.

Baseball Schedule
March 22, Oak Ridge at Davidson.
March 28, Springfield (Mass.) College at Davidson.
April 1, University of North Carolina at Salisbury.
April 2, Cornell University at Greensboro.
April 10, Wofford at Davidson.
April 12, V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.
April 13, Washington and Lee at Lexington, Va.
April 15, V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.
April 16, V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va.
April 17, University of Virginia at Charlottesville, Va.
April 22, Elon at Davidson.
April 25, Duke University at Durham.
April 26, N. C. State at Raleigh.
May 3, Oglethorpe University at Davidson.
May 4, Oglethorpe University at Davidson.
May 8, Guilford College at Davidson.

MITCHELL COLLEGE DRAMATIC PLAYERS GIVE “THE RIVALS”
Play was Sponsored by Junior Class
EXCELLENT ATTENDANCE
Fine Portrayals of Characters of Eighteenth Century Comedy

Sponsored by the Junior Class, the Mitchell College Dramatic Club, of Statesville, presented “The Rivals,” a three-act comedy by Sheridan,
last Friday night in Shearer Hall. A rather large crowd witnessed the presentation, which was exceptionally well-done for an all-girls
cast. The play, which was written in the eighteenth century, was, however, spicy and clever enough to hold the interest
of the audience.

The central story of the comedy dealt with the difficulties of the lovers, Lydia Languish and Captain Jack Absolute. Absolute,
to gain the affection of Lydia who has an aversion to title and money, is known to her as Ensign
Beverly. Lydia’s aunt and Absolute’s father arrange a match between the two lovers. Lydia hates Absolute when she learns his
identity, but she is finally reconciled.

In the play as presented, the best character portrayals were without doubt that of Mrs. Malaprop, Lydia’s aunt, who added
much to the comedy by the misuse she made of sesquipedalian words; and that of Bob Acres, the ludicrous country
gentleman. The costuming of the characters was very effective.

Members of the cast were as follows: Misses Janie Gaston, Ruth Guilford, Louise Troutman, Mary E. Alexander, Gladys Stephens, Geneva
Player, Christine Irwin, Mary Taylor, Elizabeth Bunch, Mary MacKesson, Eunice Lindsay, Ruby Bowles.

Sophomores to Have Banquet on March 2
Plans Underway for Big Event to Be Held in Charlotte

Emory Takes First Defeat of Season From Davidson Men
Branch, Davidson Alumnus, Aids in Defeat of His Alma Mater

Harllee Branch, ‘25, of Emory University Law School, with his colleague, G. C. Elliot, defeated the Davidson debating team here
in the first engagement the local men have had this season. R. C. Grady, senior, and J. C. Mathews, sophomore,
upheld the negative side of the question which was stated, “Resolved: That Expert Jurists, Three to Five in Number, Be
Substituted for the Present System of Trial by Jury.” The decision of the judges was unanimous in favor of the
affirmative.

The strong Emory team arrived here from Furman where they won with a 2-1 decision for the negative, which they
upheld against the Furman debaters. The same Davidson team goes to Queens on March the 7th to debate Florida. R.
C. Grady is a varsity debater of three years standing while Mathews was having his first varsity experience, although he
made the freshman team last year.

The judges for the occasion were Messrs. T. A. Adams, W. H. Williams, and H. L. Jones, all prominent lawyers
of Charlotte.

The negative argument of the affirmative can be summarized in the following: 1. The jury system is not necessary for
justice; 2. It is not qualified to meet justice, and 3. Its cost demands its abolition. In addition to this,
it was shown from a psychological viewpoint, why the jury is incapable of rendering justice.

The positive side of the affirmative argument hinged around the qualifications.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning
and punctuation:

---

of the expert jurists who would supplant the jury. The negative’s summarized positive argument is as follows:

1. The jury system is necessary for the preservation of democracy.
2. It can best administer justice.

Their negative argument was that (1) all the evils ascribed to the system are not its products and (2) there
is no worthy substitute for the present jury system.

R. O. T. C. Rifle Team To Meet V. M. I. Boys

Following the annual custom of the Sophomores, a banquet is to be given in Charlotte on Saturday night, March 2nd.
The banquet, given to create a better class spirit and as a social gathering for the Sophomores, is to be
held either at the Charlotte Hotel or Efird’s dining room. The place has not yet been definitely decided upon, however.

Several guests have been invited besides the members of the Sophomore Class. Among those invited are the presidents of the
three classes, Coach Monk Younger, M. C. O'Neal, A. A. Y. Melton, Ernest Milton, and R. E. Sell.

The following men have been appointed to act as chairmen of committees: Transportation, R. M. King; Program, J. A. Jones;
Menu, Archie Cannon; Tickets and Programs, A. W. McLean.

Many Other Matches Planned for Near Future

On Saturday morning, February 23, the Virginia Military Institute will fire a shoulder-to-shoulder match with the local team. This is
the first time that a team from V. M. I. has represented that school at Davidson in this particular form
of collegiate contest, although Davidson has met them there in past years.

During the weekend of March 2, the highest-ranking men on the Davidson team will represent this R. O. T. C.
unit at Lexington, Va., in a triple match with V. M. I. and V. P. I. Matches with N. C.
State and Wofford are being planned for ensuing weekends.

This is the first year that the Rifle Team has proven so active and more matches are scheduled than ever
before. Their record in the past has been good and with more support (Continued on page 4).

Seniors Make Selection For Annual Class Gift

Final Decision of Class is for Curtains for New Auditorium

At a meeting of the Senior Class Wednesday, the committee appointed to select a class gift, of which Gardner Green
was chairman, submitted a report advocating the buying of curtains for the stage of the new auditorium. The report was
unanimously accepted. The curtains are to be of red velvet with a black border. The committee suggested that this gift
would be especially appropriate as the class of ’29 will probably be the first class to graduate in the new
building. This gift will be practical and useful as well as attractive. It is planned to put a bronze plate
somewhere near the curtains, stating that they are the gift of the class of ’29.

Tom Hill, treasurer of the class, made a report in which the financial status was given and the announcement as
to the necessary assessment was approved and adopted by the class.

Complete Wireless Station Installed

The Radio Club was organized during the fall of 1928, under the sponsorship of the Physics Department of the school.
The object has been to promote an interest in radio and wireless telegraphy among the students. The club has a
complete wireless station installed in the small brick structure behind the dormitories which was formerly used as a pumping station.
The call letters of the radio station are W4ZD. The operators talk with practically every state in the Union, and
many foreign countries. They also have regular schedules with some stations, one of these being Greensboro, which communicates with Davidson
at 9:00 o’clock every morning. If any students desire to send messages by this method, the operators will be glad
to accommodate them—free of charge.

The Davidson “Y” Vocational Guidance Institute Opens Tuesday With Whitlock Speaking

April is Date For R. O. T. C. Inspection

Later in the spring, the R. O. T. C. unit will be inspected by officers from the Corps Area Headquarters.
The officers will in all probability be Major Ralph Holliday, who is G-1 at the Fourth Corps Area Headquarters, and
Major McCaughey. These men will be here in April, perhaps about the 26th and 27th of the month.

At the regular Wednesday afternoon parade on February 13, the third platoon of Company C won first place, the second
platoon of Company A came second, and the third platoon of Company D took third place. Company B, having nineteen
points, was given the award for first place during the months of December and January. Company C was second with
sixteen points, Company A and Company D were tied for third place with twelve points each, and the band came
fourth with one point.

PRIZES WITHDRAWN IN D. P. K. CONTEST

Inferior Quality of Articles Submitted Leads to Decision

At the recommendation of the judges secured by Delta Pi Kappa, the prizes offered for the best editorial and best
feature in a contest sponsored by that organization were withdrawn because of the inferior quality of the articles submitted and
the small number of entries, according to Aubrey Brown, president of Delta Pi Kappa. Only five editorials and one feature
were submitted in this contest purporting to stimulate interest in writing relating to newspapers. Plans for further contests have not
been announced, and according to officers of the journalistic order, there probably will be none.

Carolina Features Mystery Picture

“The Murder Case,” the best-selling detective novel by S. S. Van Dine, has been made into an all-talking picture by
Paramount. This picture has been selected by the Imperial Theatre in Charlotte as their feature attraction during the Publix Celebration
Week beginning Monday, February 25th, in which the 1200 Publix Theatres from Coast-to-Coast will present the best shows ever arranged
for public approval.

This picture brings to the screen that well-known character in fiction, Philo Vance, the clever criminologist who pursues unusual methods
in running down criminals. The role of Vance is played by William Powell, who recently scored a hit in the
all-talking version of the stage play, “Interference.” It is said that Powell gives a brilliant performance as the suave, calculating
detective who proceeds to unravel one of the most baffling murders ever confronted by the police. Many consider “The Canary
Murder Case” to be the most thrilling of the Van Dine series, and those who have seen and heard the
picture claim that the screen version loses none of the dramatic intensity that characterized it in book form. Many well-known
names appear in the supporting cast and include Jean Arthur, Louise Brooks, James Hall, Gustav von Seyffertitz, Charles Lane, and
Louis Bartels.

On the same program with “The Canary Murder Case” are a number of features, headed by a Metro Movietone Revue
with a cast of seven Broadway stars singing, dancing, and telling jokes. A Chorus Girl comedy “Skating Home” and Paramount
News complete the show.

CORRECTION

S. W. Cashion, recently listed in the student directory in the wrong class, is of senior standing.

Mr. Whitlock is One of Charlotte’s Leading Lawyers

LAW AS LIFE WORK

Dr. Brenizer, Well-Known Surgeon to Present Medicine as a Vocation Thursday

It has been announced by the committee in charge that the Vocational Guidance Institute, an organization sponsored by the Davidson
College Y. M. C. A. for the purpose of aiding the students in their decision of a vocation, will formally
open Tuesday night, February 26th.

At 7:00 p.m., Mr. Paul Whitlock, attorney of Charlotte, will speak in Shearer Hall on law as a life work.
All of Tuesday afternoon he will be on the campus to interview those wishing to have a personal talk with
him. W. M. Powell, chairman of the Committee on Law of the Vocational Program, is arranging for these interviews which
will be held in the form of discussion groups, several men being present at one time and taking part in
the discussion.

Mr. Whitlock comes to Davidson on the recommendation of some of the leading men of Charlotte. According to them, the
students have a treat in store in the way of useful information, spiced with rich humor. Mr. Whitlock has been
practicing law in Charlotte for twenty years, having come there from Rockingham where he was a law partner of the
former Gov. Cameron Morrison. As a member of the Goodfellows Club, Mr. Whitlock has shown that he is a real
humorist, author, and comic actor. As president of the Chamber of Commerce, he has served his community well and has
won the right to be called one of Charlotte's leading civic leaders.

Thursday night the field of medicine will be set forth again with a noted man of Charlotte, Dr. Brenizer, who
is one of the leading surgeons of the South. According to a sketch of his life in Who's Who, Dr.
Brenizer has attended internationally famous universities and has served the world in several different capacities. Further particulars of Dr. Brenizer
and his visit here will be published next week. Information can be obtained from Sam Brown, chairman of the committee
on medicine.

PHI DELTS INSTALL N. C. GAMMA CHAP.

Many Prominent Men Will Be Present at Initiation

On Friday and Saturday of this week, an installation team composed of members of the active chapters of Phi Delta
Theta fraternity at the University of North Carolina and at Duke University will visit Davidson to conduct the ceremonies incident
to the installation of the North Carolina Gamma chapter of that fraternity. At the same time, members of the General
Council, the governing board of the fraternity, and a number of prominent men of the organization will be present.

The North Carolina Gamma Charter was granted to the local Delta Theta Phi at the recent general convention which met
in Nashville, Tenn., last December. This will be the ninety-seventh active chapter of the fraternity and the third chapter to
be placed in a North Carolina college. Twenty-seven members of the local will be initiated at the time of the
installation as well as a number of returning alumni. Alumni who are unable to return will be initiated at a
later date while others will be inducted into Phi Delta Theta by the chapters nearest them.

The entire day of Friday will be taken up with the initiation of individuals followed by open house by all
the fraternities that night. On Saturday, the initiation ceremonies will be completed and the installation of the chapter will be
made in the afternoon. That night a banquet will be held at Maxwell-Chambers Hotel.
