Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN January 10, 1929

ALUMNI NEWS

FOUR ALUMNI MEETINGS ARE HELD IN GA. AND FLA.

Atlanta, Jacksonville, Orlando, St. Petersburg Points

Wide-Spread Influenza and Holiday Season Interferes With Attendance

ALUMNI SHOW INTEREST

Questions Asked at Each Meeting Indicate That Alumni Are Vitally Concerned About College Affairs

Four interesting and lively meetings of local alumni associations were held during the Christmas holiday season at Atlanta, Ga., Orlando,
Fla., St. Petersburg, Fla., and Jacksonville, Fla. The widespread prevalence of influenza and the absence of many men from the
various cities on short vacations decidedly hampered the size of the bodies meeting, but the keen interest and loyalty displayed
by the ones who attended made the holiday gatherings worthwhile.

Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, met with each of the associations and brought to them current and pertinent facts about the
college and its affairs. An open forum discussion was conducted after each talk he made, and questions relating to the
future growth of Davidson, the fraternity situation here, the cost of an education at Davidson, the athletic outlook, and others
occupied a considerable portion of the time.

Atlanta Meeting

Davidson alumni in Atlanta and Decatur held their meeting at the Henry Grady Hotel in Atlanta, the group gathering for
dinner at 6:30 p.m. Rev. Wade H. Boggs, D.D., retiring president of that organization, presided and carried through a program
which included a talk by Rev. D. P. McGeachy, D.D., of Decatur, on “The Davidson of Yesterday;” one by R.
O. Flinn, Jr., a senior at Davidson, on “The Davidson of Today,” and another portion by the alumni secretary. Election
of officers occurred, which was followed by brief remarks by the new president and secretary.

Officers Elected

Three of the four local alumni associations which met during the Christmas holidays held their annual election of officers as
follows:

Atlanta
President, Dr. W. M. Dunn, ’03.
Vice-President, Rev. Harold Shields, '11.
Secretary-Treasurer, Branch, Jr., '27.

Central Florida
President, R. S. Abernethy, '99, Winter Haven.
Vice-President, Sam L. Belk, '27, Orlando.
Secretary-Treasurer, Walter H. Lynch, Jr., ’26.

Florida West Coast
President, Dr. J. Frank Cranford, ’06, St. Petersburg (re-elected).
Vice-President, W. L. Douglas, '18, Dunedin.
Secretary-Treasurer, Charles R. Anderson, '27, St. Petersburg.

Central Florida

Former students of Davidson residing in Orlando, Winter Haven, and Eustis gathered for dinner at the Angebilt Hotel in Orlando
at 6 p.m., with Carl Ferran, of Eustis, Fla., retiring president, presiding. He turned the meeting entirely over to the
alumni secretary who conducted the business and addressed that body. Officers were elected, the meeting was thrown open for discussion,
and near the close a motion was made and passed that the new president, R. S. Abernethy, immediately send a
message to Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college, expressing best wishes to him, the Davidson faculty, and its
two coaches.

Florida West Coast

Dr. J. Frank Cranford, president of the Florida West Coast Alumni Association, had invited the alumni of St. Petersburg and
cities in that section as his guests at dinner, which was served at his lovely home in St. Petersburg at
6 p.m. The meeting was informal, many matters pertaining to Davidson being discussed during the course of the dinner. A
constitution and by-laws for that association were adopted and officers elected. It was voted that the new secretary should send
out to alumni of that association a letter, telling them about the meeting. It was also suggested that an alumni
meeting for the entire state of Florida be proposed to the officers of all associations, Orlando being tentatively suggested as
the most logical point. After dinner, the alumni adjourned for a smoker.

Northeast Florida

The meeting of the Northeast Florida Association at Jacksonville had been planned originally to follow the Atlanta meeting, but due
to illness of a number of men and absence from the city of others, it was postponed until the return
trip of the alumni secretary. He spent an hour and a half in the city between trains and met with
an interested group of alumni at dinner at the George Washington Hotel. John D. Baker, Sr., presided in the absence
of the president, Dr. W. M. Shaw, who was ill, and immediately began an informal discussion of Davidson, due to
the brief time the secretary would be in the city.

ALUMNI PRESENT

The list of Davidson College alumni attending local meetings held in Atlanta, Ga., Orlando, Fla., St. Petersburg, Fla., and Jacksonville,
Fla., during the Christmas holidays is arranged according to classes as follows:

1886—John D. Baker, Sr., Jacksonville.
1896—Rev. D. P. McGeachy, D.D., Decatur.
1898—Rev. W. J. Garrison, D.D., Crozet, Va.; R. A. Love, Gastonia, N.C.
1899—R. S. Abernethy, Winter Haven.
1900—H. M. Askew, Atlanta (attended Jacksonville meeting).
1903—Dr. W. M. Dunn, Atlanta.
1904—W. E. Cooper, Atlanta.
1906—Dr. J. Frank Cranford, St. Petersburg.
1907—Rev. Wade H. Boggs, D.D., Atlanta; E. M. Cranford, St. Petersburg.
1908—R. M. Wetherell, Orlando.
1910—W. F. Milburn, Atlanta.
1911—Rev. Harold Shields, Atlanta.
1912—Rev. E. L. Bishop, Atlanta.
1913—Z. J. Crawford, Jacksonville; C. L. Ferran, Eustis; Donald McQueen, Jacksonville.
1915—Rev. J. B. Belk, D.D., Orlando.
1916—R. S. Witherington, Eustis.
1918—W. L. Douglas, Dunedin.
1920—B. E. Shields, Decatur; P. Coggins, Jacksonville.A large portion of the time was spent talking about the situation of fraternities
at Davidson during the past several years, followed by other channels of thought. New officers had not been elected when
the secretary left, and no report has been received as to further action of the association.

VIEWS AND OBSERVATIONS On Four Recent Alumni Meetings

A few years, Davidson College to give a comprehensive historical sketch of the fraternity situation in reference to the housing
proposition over a period of the last. The secretary finds that there is considerable misunderstanding. Considerable phraseology was used by
Rev. D. P. McGeachy, D.D., when he was talking about the “Davidson of yesterday” before the Atlanta Alumni Association, but
the descriptive words which stood out pre-eminent were those in reference to the building, which was described as one which
rose “like the corridors of time and the annals of eternity.”

1921—Dr. W. P. Cumming, Davidson; Houston White, Atlanta; S. A. Burgess, Orlando; Geo. D. Green, II, Jacksonville.
1922—Rev. D. P. McGeachy Jr., Atlanta.
1924—H. M. White, Columbia, South America.
1925—J. W. Good, Orlando; John D. Baker, Jr., Jacksonville.
1926—O. L. Brenner, Atlanta; J. C. Pressley, St. Petersburg; T. S. Baker, Jacksonville; Walter H. Lynch, Jr., Orlando.
1927—L. C. R. Deck, Atlanta; Sam Belk, Orlando; C. R. Anderson, St. Petersburg; J. B. Webb, Clearwater; P. F. Jones,
St. Petersburg; Harlee Branch, Jr., Atlanta.
1928—Julian Lake, Atlanta; R. S. Lowrance, Atlanta; T. E. McGeachy, Decatur; Walter Anderson, St. Petersburg.
1929—H. E. Ferran, Orlando; R. O. Flinn, Jr., senior at Davidson, attending Atlanta meeting.

Trustee—Rev. C. H. Ferran, D.D., Orlando.

The College Man’s First Choice

You will find here more than the average number of shoe styles just suited to the college man’s taste. John
Wards are preeminent as the shoes that college men prefer.

John Ward MEN'S SHOES See them on display - By Bill Bailey and Dean Rusk 208 Watts, Davidson, N. C.

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE S & W Cafeterias are catering to you ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

Against loss, McAlister Carson ('13), Mgr.

HOW ABOUT YOUR SKILLED LABOR

Why do you take the risk of having to protect yourself and pay heavy lawyers’ fees and damages when an
employee is injured? An Employer’s Liability Policy relieves you of all worry and protects you.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C. M. B. Speir, Jr. ('26)

The frequency of queries from individuals about their friends and classmates leads to the conclusion that a new Alumni Catalogue,
extensively advertised and containing even more data than the one published in 1924, would receive a wide distribution. Even though
two of the alumni were told that the present catalogue contained addresses which had changed since its issuance, these two
men insisted that they wanted a copy. The secretary mailed them after his return to Davidson.

When the alumni secretary meets with alumni he generally gets an earful of criticisms. One which has been frequently encountered
during the fall was that in reference to the tuition fees at Davidson College. Some should be taken to clarify
the minds of alumni, giving them statistical data and information which shows the justification of the increase.

Dr. Oren Moore, '08, of Charlotte, has been introduced over the radio in Charlotte as the “Will Rogers of Davidson.”
Anyone who heard Dick Flinn, senior at Davidson, talk to the Atlanta alumni would rightly conclude that Dr. Moore will
have a successor. Mr. Flinn discussed “The Davidson of Today” and sandwiched many jokes and anecdotes between his serious remarks,
which kept his hearers in an uproar.

Perhaps it would not be amiss for some true facts and some erroneous ones to come to the minds of
Davidson alumni, many of whom are vitally interested in the institution. Because of the questions propounded during the various meetings
held during the Christmas holidays, it is concluded that the alumni interest in the college is keen. It is also
believed that some periodical containing information about the college and its component parts would be a medium of keeping them
well-informed and would give them up-to-date information directly from the officials.

In addition to numerous new addresses or changes of address which were obtained on the trip, information was received about
the marriage of two alumni, and considerable data about individual men, which affords the secretary a personal contact with alumni.

(Continued on page 6)

Drugs Medicines Toilet Articles Kodaks WHITE DRUG COMPANY Stationery Candies Prescriptions A Specialty

BRICKS DE LUXE ICE CREAM at STUDENT STORE CONES MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM CO. CUPS

A pencil put Peary on top. Other explorers had great personal courage, unlimited energy and vision untrammeled; and failed. But
Peary had one thing more—as seen in the care which guided the pencil in his frost-cramped hand. After each day’s
march, he calculated the next day’s progress to make sure of his course. He had the grasp of every detail
of the world he was exploring.

To face each day’s reckoning as if it were the most important of all days is characteristic of men in
the telephone industry. That viewpoint, expressed in the varied terms of applied science, laboratory research, financing and management, guides Bell
System men in their respective fields of public service.

BELL SYSTEM A nation-wide system of 19,000,000 inter-connecting telephones “OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN”
