THE DAVIDSONIAN

Pan-Hellenic Week

Following close on the examination period comes Pan-Hellenic week. Many young ladies are expected as weekend guests from the surrounding
colleges, and social events are being planned in their honor.

Freshman Reception

On Friday night of last week, the Y. M. C. A. sponsored another of its receptions in honor of the
Freshman class. On this occasion, the Freshmen from the state of South Carolina were guests. Hot cocoa and small cakes
were served.

Musicians Attend Dinner

On Monday night of this week, Messrs. A. J. Thompson, C. C. Orr, Jr., R. B. Orr, C. E. Brown,
G. Pardington, and P. B. Fry were guests at a dinner given by the Men's Club of the Second Presbyterian
Church of Charlotte. During the evening, they gave a program of instrumental and vocal numbers.

Charlotte Alumni Meet

Tonight, the Charlotte Chapter of the Davidson Alumni Association holds one of its regular meetings. It is understood that the
meeting is to be of a social nature. Ernest Milton of Davidson, Alumni Secretary, will attend.

Prof. and Mrs. Cullum Entertain

This afternoon at five o'clock, the members of the History VII class will be guests in the home of Prof.
and Mrs. Cullum at an informal tea.

Senior Frolic

With the date set as February 23rd, plans for the entertainment to be given by the Faculty in honor of
the Senior Class and their guests are rapidly materializing, according to information obtained from those in charge. Those working on
the affair are reticent about details in connection with the event but state unreservedly that the occasion will be, from
all points, entirely joyful and pleasurable. Many seniors are inviting friends for this big social event. More complete plans will
be announced immediately following the close of this term.

Masquers Present Comic, “Real Mr. Q”

Second Production of Year Staged in Shearer

Playing before an audience of some thirty or forty students, last Monday night in Shearer Hall, The Red and Black
Masquers presented the second of their one-act plays, “The Real Mr. Q.” The cast consisted of three students, two sophomores
and one freshman: Lemuel Williams, Jack Mathews, and John D. McConnell, named in their respective order. “The Real Mr. Q”
is a good comic mystery in which the three roles are a thief bent on robbing a doctor's office, a
pseudo-detective who has the same evil ends in view, and a man who poses as the doctor who owns the
office but who is shown at the end to be the real Mr. Q. Williams took the part of Mr.
Q; Mathews was the thief; and McConnell’s role was that of the detective. At one or two places in the
performance, one of the actors gave evidence by a slight forgetfulness or a lack of preparation; but it is understood
that he was acting as a substitute for the regular man for the part who had been detained at home,
so that the understudy had only a very short while in which to learn his lines. The performance required some
twenty or twenty-five minutes for production. J. Z. Preston, who was elected this fall as the head of the organization,
announces that in the future the Red and Black Masquers are planning to put on one or two performances which
may attest to the fact that there is some histrionic ability in the school.

FRESH QUINT (Continued from page 1)

home team. Mathis played a good game at guard and also scored seven points. Milton at center was the high
scorer for the team, shooting thirteen points.

Wingate (33) Position (31) Davidson
Griffin (4) RF Montgomery (2)
Dabbs LF Hutaff (5)
Yaddy (11) C Milton (13)
Jones RG Mathis (7)
Triplett (18) LG Gilbert

Substitutions: For Wingate: Baker, Burris. For Davidson: King (2), Martin, Lane (2), Brown. Referee, Crawford (Davidson).

BLANTON IS DETAILED (Continued from page 1)

Polytechnic Institute at Auburn, Ala., and later completed a course in the infantry school at Fort Benning, Ga. Capt. Blanton
is now adjutant of the 19th Infantry serving in Hawaii. Officials of the local unit have not been notified of
the appointment, and consequently were unable to divulge whether Capt. Blanton would be an addition to the present staff, or
would replace some officer of the unit.

HALL ELECTED (Continued from page 1)

Arnold was eliminated and the fourth and last ballot showed Hall to have a majority over Allen. Hall is from
Statesville, N. C., and, having been a frequent visitor to Davidson prior to his coming here as a student, he
is well known and liked among the upperclassmen as well as among the freshmen. He is engaged in “Y” deputation
work and expects to go out for baseball manager in the spring. Hall is a pledge to Pi Kappa Phi
social fraternity.

LYON SPEAKS ON EVOLUTION

Ministerial Band Hears Evolution Characterized as Dogma

The speaker at the ministerial band meeting last Sunday was Dr. S. C. Lyon, well-known member of the faculty. Dr.
Lyon gave a very interesting and helpful talk on “The Dogma of Evolution.” In his talk, he pointed out that
difficulties will arise in the relation of science and religion. Most religion is dogmatic, but a part is based on
evidence of the Resurrection. He also spoke of the relation of the dogma of evolution to biology and religion. Paul
realized the danger of this thing and made mention of it in the third chapter of the second epistle to
Timothy. He answers the query, what is the theory of evolution? by referring to the first four words of the
Book of Genesis. Science cannot go behind the beginning. The theory of evolution is a dogma, more nearly an hypothesis.
It gives more trouble in psychology and philosophy. It is a mistake that man is descended from the apes; they
both have a common ancestry. In relation to biology, it is a working hypothesis which has never been proved. Many
scientists do not believe it but recognize its value. A theory is not science but is useful in its power
of suggestion. Theories change. Its relation to religion is the same as the atomic theory. Religion and science are both
based on faith. Time and space cannot be defined but are based on faith. Testimony is more certain than a
word that expresses a concept. The testimony of the Life of Christ is as certain historically as any other history.
It has often been attacked but never shaken. Cling closely to the faith that comes through this testimony and be
not led astray by the actions of science, so-called.

R. O. T. C. STUDENTS (Continued from page 1)

Dr. John Melton, PhD, assistant to Dr. Frazer Hood in the Department of Psychology, was called on by the defense
as an expert on somnambulism. He was accepted as such by the court. He said that such a case as
Mr. Flythe’s was entirely possible and gave examples of like cases. He said that often in a trance akin to
hypnosis, a person gives expression to a suppressed desire. He is unconscious of this in his conscious mind and cannot
be held responsible for his action while asleep under the influence of this desire. The fact that Mr. Flythe is
very fond of guns seems to point to this theory. The accused chose to make a full statement under oath.
He verified his roommate’s statements and said he had no knowledge of his alleged act. The defense counsel stated that
he rested his case on the temporary irresponsibility of the accused and cited a similar case in the British court
where the accused was acquitted. The trial judge advocate rested his case on the U. S. common law which holds
a sane man responsible for acts which he has been proved to have committed. The assistant trial judge advocate asked
the court to consider that the defense had given no explanation for the use of a flashlight by the accused.
The court adjourned to make its decision. When the court had filed back into the room, Cadet Major King first
explained for the sake of the serious-minded that Mr. Flythe had really stolen no gun, then he rendered the decision
of the court. “Not guilty,” said Cadet Major King.

Spain Will Be Mecca Of Student Tourists

Student globe trotters have a new experience to look forward to in 1929—an experience at once pleasurable and profitable. Spain,
land of sunshine and flowers, castles and color, legend and romance; Spain, once Queen of the Seas and supreme among
nations; Spain whose galleons and gold, grandeur and pomp once were the envy of the civilized world is making a
new bid for leadership in arts, industry, and commerce. All roads will lead to Spain in 1929. The world which
has heard little recently of the land of Castile and Aragon will again visit her Mediterranean shores, enjoy her hospitality,
her blue skies, and her Latin beauty. In the gay and lovely city of Sevilla, and in Barcelona, industrial and
commercial capital of Spain, will be staged two great International Exhibitions of Art, Athletics, Industry, and Commerce under the auspices
of H. M. the King, Don Alfonso XIII. In the wide halls and golden galleries of splendid palaces of marble...and
colored tile—legacy of the Arabs and the Moors—will be displayed, showcasing the artistic effort and scientific genius of world peoples.
In significance and magnitude, the Exhibitions represent the most important economic events staged since the World War. Nearly seventy-five million
dollars has been set aside by the Government and by Spain’s leading industrialists to ensure the success of the venture,
for which plans have been underway for ten years. Sevilla will particularly emphasize arts, while Barcelona—city of merchants—will stress the
industrial. In the great Industrial zone, businessmen from all over the world will display their products, America being an important
contributor. Considerable emphasis will be given to the application of science to industrial ends. Sports of the world will be
featured in international contests in the immense Exhibition Stadium, while everything relating to the educational, technical, and commercial aspects of
the Sporting World will be gathered together in the Sports Pavilion in Barcelona. A Greek Theater, built with pure classic
art in a quarry of great antiquity, cut from stone of fiery colors, will host dramas of another day. Spanish
festivals will be celebrated in Sevilla with all the gorgeous pageantry and colorful splendor which is Spain. A luminous Fountain,
more grand than the famous fountain of Versailles, will rain a glittering shower of stars in the Plaza Espanol.

Two events of international significance will enliven the Exhibition calendars—the First International Light Fair, at which light and its importance
in all aspects of human activity will be featured, and the International Press Congress to be attended by the world’s
leading publishers, journalists, and publicists. Artists and architects, students and teachers, philosophers and economists, the industrialists and the traders, the
manufacturers and the merchants from the Old World and the New will meet next year in Barcelona and Sevilla. Educational
in purpose, international in scope, and universal in appeal, Spain’s two great Exhibitions will be the goal next year of
people in every field of endeavor and interest—academic and technical. Old Spain invites the youth of America to New Spain,
whose shadows of a glorious past rise in her monuments, promising a future in eager, ambitious, successful New Spain.

FUTURE SPEAKERS
(Continued from page 1)
Carolina Episcopal Diocese, has the program. Sometime during the next few months, Mr. Tom Glascow, prominent businessman of Charlotte; Donald
W. Richardson, Missionary, now at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond; and Dr. A. D. P. Gilmour, pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church in Wilmington, will make talks at “Y” vespers.

GREYER WINS CUP IN RIFLE TRY-OUTS
Rifle Team Selected by Competitive Firing—Results Good
The following are the names of the men who were selected to represent the College in the Gallery Rifle Competitions.
They were selected by competitive scores. Greyer, C. P., who has the highest individual score, was selected as the winner
of the Scabbard and Blade Trophy. His score was 360 out of a possible 400.

Name Score Possible
Greyer, C. P. 360 400
Tate, W. M. 342 400
Russell, R. S. 365 400
Block, W. 318 400
Hapgood, H. 317 400
Wiley, S. 315 400
Riley, W. 400
Jackson, A. R. 400
Bradley, J. 400
Banks, H. H. 400
Brannon, J. 283 400
Furman, W. A. 280 400
Galdet, D. 275 400
Bettis, B. 2 400
Kraemer, C. E. 400
Hughes, J. G. 400
Cooeth, D. 258 400
Preston, J. 400
Garcia, V. 251 400
Caldwell, D. G. 251 400
Low, W. 8000

From the total scored out of the possible 8000 and this being the first match, taking all things into consideration,
the indications for a very good, successful season seem promising. The men who have made the team are urged to
practice at all the spare time that they have, even during exams, in order that the team can make as
good a showing as it is entitled to make in the first match, which is to be fired with three
institutions during the first week of the second semester.

Doctor Gives Report On Results Of “Flu”
Mecklenburg Medical Society Hears Dr. Laughinghouse’s Report
Dr. Charles Laughinghouse, secretary of the N. C. Board of Health, attended the recent conference of Public Health officials in
Washington, where health officers from all sections of the U. S. met to study with the Surgeon General the recent
epidemic of influenza. Dr. Laughinghouse made a report to the Mecklenburg Medical Society on January 14th and gave the following
summary of the meeting.

1st. The present epidemic exceeds any since 1918 and is in every part of the U. S., but least of
all in the New England section. It was at its worst in the far west and in the middle west.
2nd. It has now passed its peak and there seems little danger of a secondary wave, but the crest of
the pneumonia wave comes two weeks after the peak of the influenza.
3rd. The death rate the past two weeks in the U. S. has been about double that of the normal.
4th. The absolute cause of influenza is unknown; that is, the infecting organism has not been isolated.
5th. Vaccination has not proven to be of benefit, though Dr. Rosenau, of the Mayos, takes the opposite view and
claims that it is of benefit, though not absolutely a preventative.
6th. The best treatment so far is rest in bed during the attack, and rest during a long period of
convalescence. The Treasury Department has been asked for an appropriation to carry on the research work in this line.

FELLOWS... get your clothes altered, repaired, or reworked promptly attended to by expert tailors. No job too small or too
large. Bring your work and be convinced.

A. GERSKOV, THE TAILOR

Regular Meeting of Sigma Upsilon Held
Unique Novel Being Written By Members
The Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon, national literary fraternity, held its regular meeting at the home of Dr. W.
P. Cumming, Wednesday night. Several papers of a more or less literary nature were read. Among these was the second
installment of a serial novel which is now being written. This novel is a murder mystery, one chapter of which
is written by each member of the group. The first chapter was written by W. B. McQueen, the second by
R. A. Boggess, and the third will be written by R. F. Jarratt. A diverting sketch was read by J.
C. Johnson, in which a true experience was told. In addition to these, several criticisms of the Chameleon were heard.
After this, refreshments were in order.

LITERARY SOCIETIES
The program of the Philanthropic Literary Society for the night of January the eighth was devoted to a study of
the lives and works of the poets Browning and Tennyson. M. F. McDavid gave a sketch of Browning's life, and
R. T. Ellett read several of Browning’s poems. An outline of the life of Tennyson was given by T. H.
Hall. E. Patton read some of his poems. The feature of the program of the Eumanean Society was a talk
on the anatomy of Humor by Prof. K. J. Foreman. This was followed by a feed.

Two scientists at the Mt. Wilson observatory recently measured the temperature of the moon. They found that its temperature was
then 159 degrees Fahrenheit and calculated that when it does not receive the sun’s rays, the temperature drops to 459
degrees below zero.

The famous Waldorf-Astoria hotel in New York will soon be a thing of the past. Plans have been completed for
the erection of a 50-story office building on its site.

Dean of Women (6:30 a.m.): Young man, what do you mean by bringing this girl in at this time in
the morning?
Freshman (returning the lady friend from the Junior Prom): Well, I got a lecture at 8:30.—Cornell Daily Sun.

Infirmary Notes
The number of cases of influenza has decreased this week and the epidemic has apparently passed the peak. Lt. R.
C. Beckett is out after a two weeks’ stay in the infirmary with severe double pneumonia. Hector McLean has a
low-grade broncho-pneumonia and has been in the infirmary for a week. G. R. Bryant is in the Charlotte Sanatorium convalescing
from a sharp but short attack of lobar pneumonia. Darden Edgerton is improving rapidly at the Charlotte Sanatorium where he
has been following an appendix operation. Sergeant Kirby had the misfortune to injure his right eye while chopping wood and
has been disabled for the past ten days.

John W. McConnell, M.D.

You will find only the most approved street and dress shoes in John Wards. They have been grouped here especially
for college men. For 80 years, John Wards have been the college man’s shoe.

John Ward MEN'S SHOES
See them on display at By Bill Bailey and Dean Rusk 208 Watts, Davidson, N. C.

STATIONERY
Printed and Embossed ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS
Aubrey Brown Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. Charlotte, N. C.

Exam. Pads Note Books Records Henderson's Superior Soda Service Fountain Pens Stationery School Supplies
