THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

ZEB V. LONG, Jr. ..... Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL ..... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
P. A. McCUTCHAN ..... Managing Editor
W. McCUTCHAN ..... Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN ..... Athletic Editor
J. F. NUNN ..... Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN ..... Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT ..... Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER ..... Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT ..... Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. G. BERRY ..... Asst. Bus. Mgr.
C. G. PEPPER ..... Subscription Mgr.
S. C. MATTHEWS ..... Solicitor
J. G. DINKINS ..... Solicitor
W. G. MARTIN ..... Solicitor
W. S. LEA ..... Solicitor
R. SMITH ..... Solicitor
C. W. F. SPENCER ..... Solicitor
J. O. STEPHENSON ..... Solicitor
W. T. HANCOCK ..... Solicitor
R. WHITEHEAD ..... Solicitor
JOHN M. BROWN ..... Solicitor
ROY GREY ..... Solicitor
G. P. PARDINGTON ..... Solicitor
N. B. DICK ..... Solicitor
MATTHEWS, W. H. BIRD ..... Solicitor
A. R. C. DWELLE, E. C. ..... Solicitor

DECEMBER 12, 1929

THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS

Last minute reviews, checking bank balances, resolutions to come back for a better fight with Old Man Study, goodbye—then HOME.

Five letter men back and a fine bunch of reserves make the Davidson Five look unusually dangerous for this season.
Carolina’s Tar Heels, many times Conference Champions on the hardwood courts, may receive a surprise on January 11, when they
meet the Wildcat Basketeers in Charlotte.

A Freshman Banquet at this time of year is a new step for staid old Davidson, but it bids fair
to be a great success and start a worthy precedent.

An almost unprecedented number of excellent lecturers and attractive entertainments during the past few weeks have been most pleasing to
both student body and town.

Barium Springs and Banner Elk—little Davidsons, and good ones at that.

Now we're on the air, Davidson’s advent to the world of radio is a worthwhile step forward.

Congratulations to the football letter men and to the captain-elect. Same to freshman numeral wearers.

Every man should be glad to add a contribution for Banner Elk to his Christmas gift list. It’s a splendid
work they're doing up there in the mountains. It’s not too late yet. See some “Y” man and turn in
your bit.

HAPPINESS FOR YOU

“God rest you, merry gentlemen, May nothing you dismay—”

This being the last issue of The Davidsonian before the holidays, the entire staff joins in the old, old wish
of a happy season of peace and goodwill for you. Nearly four months have slipped from our fingers while we
were pursuing paths of learning, of close fellowship, of rich, abundant college life under the most auspicious circumstances imaginable. Now
comes the halt, the period of rest, and, to all intent, the time of new devotion. May we not regret
the days that are gone; but may they serve as stepping stones to the golden days that are ahead. May
our Christmas be an earnest one, a beautiful one, and may the mellow tones of that carol which sounded in
the Judean hills find their echo still in our hearts as we pause to bow in humble reverence before the
wonderful spirit of Christmas.

DAVIDSON VIA RADIO

Hundreds of students listened to the concert of Glee Club and Orchestra broadcast from WBT Monday evening, and thrilled as
they thought of their college’s activities going out to thousands of listeners the country over. For the second time this
fall Davidson was “on the air,” the previous occasion being in celebration of the November Home-Coming Day. Such publicity for
this institution has been unknown in the past, but telegrams from friends in various parts of the land indicate that
Davidson’s future broadcasts will meet with great favor and support.

The radio may come to be a potent factor in “selling” Davidson to the world, in advertising her according to
most approved modern methods of salesmanship which must be practiced even in the program of building up a college. Davidson
is being groomed to fill a section of the Charlotte program each week, an opportunity thus being afforded the college
of working out entertainment features capable of transmitting the actual spirit of the college and its ideals to the listening
radio world. Inestimable value is liable to attach itself to the observance of a consistent policy of making Davidson better
known by means of the microphone.

Plans for many activities concerning alumni may be sent out over the airwaves. Old Davidson men everywhere may come to
depend upon the radio as a regular means of contact with their college and college friends. Parties long separated may
be drawn together because of information garnered from radio programs. All campaigns and enterprises of the growing institution may be
advanced to supporters who make it a habit to listen for Davidson programs.

It is very essential that programs of the highest order be presented from the beginning, the challenge resting with those
in charge here to spare no effort in keeping the quality of the entertainments up to a superlative level. If
this can be accomplished, it is probable that the prospect of a direct radio connection with Chambers Auditorium will become
a certainty. Then each and every department of student life will be able to offer its services for radio broadcasting
with little or no trouble.

“SUPERLATIVE ELEVENS”

Newspapers the country over have featured their All-American and All-Sectional Football Teams during the last week or so in sensational
terms. In spite of it all, the average fan has been told nothing except that a number of college players
have been the recipients of unusual publicity. This is not to say that the choices of sport writers and coaches
are not, in the main, fairly representative, for such opinions are founded on supposedly expert interpretation of the great collegiate
game. The men picked on so-called all-star teams are outstanding; beyond doubt they are capable of handling their position against
any opposition. But, in nearly every instance, the men chosen owe their prominence to the peculiar influence of publicity, to
the Great American Newspaper. Often their prestige is built up over a long period of time by some writer especially
anxious to play up a native son. Sometimes a brilliant performance in a particular game will lead to the necessary
attention. In many cases the honor is deserved, in many more it is not. Seldom does it occur that a
gridiron warrior is so far superior to his fellow performers that his position on a super team cannot be disputed.
The honorable mention lists carry the names of countless players who deserve greater reward, but are deprived of it simply
because there is room for only eleven men on a football selection. And as far as the ability to play
the game goes, many men who never flash in the headlines possess the requirements of national prominence. As sectional equivalents
let us remember others less fortunate in their contact with the determining force of publicity, whose best pours out in
a steady stream for the betterment of the clash before the stadium.

And being on the subject, we cannot refrain from scoring two North Carolina coaches for leaving the versatile Thad Brock
off their all-state selection. We really envy Chuck Collins his “hundred backs” and “three hundred linesmen,” and we'd like to
have a team which we could name in its entirety and still feel sure of scoring supremacy, but we see
that Mr. Collins has no idea of admitting that one little end can spill all his interference time after time.
It just wouldn’t do for the nation’s second high scorers to bow even that much. If Mr. Collins can show
any linesman of his, including Ray Farris, who has played the consistent type of ball, and been as constant a
menace against all comers, as has Thad Brock,

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

On Monday past, Jay Pierrepont Moffat, American charge d'affaires at Berne, Switzerland, signed the protocol of adherence to the Permanent
Court of International Justice. He was acting under the direction of Secretary of State, Henry L. Stimson. President Hoover authorized
the entire diplomatic gesture. This protocol contains the Root formula for the entry of the United States into the World
Court. This stepis significant, in many respects terrifying. We have formed an alliance which should be considered holy, and from
which instant divorce cannot be obtained. Perhaps President Hoover has reasons for his decision to wait a year before asking
the Senate to ratify the action mentioned above. Serious reflection has been caused by recent disturbances in the Republic of
Haiti. Is a Nicaraguan outrage to be repeated? No one questions the determination of the government of the United States
to protect American property and lives in other countries; this is true of the present administration especially. However, as Brisbane
ably states, “It would be embarrassing for Russia or some like power”—if there is a power such as Russia—“to request
that the United States be diplomatically ordered to leave Haiti to her own problems.” An economic imperialism cannot always coincide
with the ideas of liberty-loving peoples.

As has been mentioned before in this column, there are numerous heroes whose deeds are unsung and whose possible glory
is buried with them. Last week, in Virginia, three men were shot in front of a roadhouse. Two of them
are dead; the other is not expected to live. Defying all laws of common decency, two men ran amok, and
the proprietor called the sheriff. When the officer arrived, the unruly ones defied arrest. There was a scuffle; the sheriff
and one of the men were killed, the last—a boy—was stretched on the ground, probably mortally wounded, by an unknown
hand. There is one consolation! Deliberative and lawful justice cannot meditate over the mentality of the slayers for four or
five years before acquitting them.

People at large are startled to learn that Judge Ben B. Lindsey, of Denver, Colorado, has been disbarred from the
practice of law in that state. The foremost advocate of a beneficial Juvenile Court system, he was also defiant in
his approval of companionate marriage. The chief reason given for his disbarment is an ethical one, and doubtless the major
portion of the country’s barristers will favor the action. Let it be remembered, however, that no prominent and eminently successful
man in public affairs has ever been without enemies, even in his own profession.

When Policeman T. A. Honeycutt, of Charlotte, placed a yellow ticket on the automobile of the Mayor of that city,
he proved to be no respecter of persons. The mayor proved himself a real man by paying his fine with
a smile; he had exceeded the parking limit for a particular block. It is hard for a man, in the
course of duty, to reprove or reprimand one who is a friend or relative. It is harder for an employee
to deliberately—to the over-sensitive mind at least—place himself at variance with a man in superior position. The following lines might
possibly express the point:

“Theirs not to reason why,
Theirs but to do and die—
Into the valley of Death
Rode the Six Hundred.”
—Tennyson.

For the past two weeks this column has been endeavoring to print a certain paragraph. Space has prohibited this unnatural
excess, and it has been decided “to yield to the gentleman,” temporarily. If there are those who have a curiosity
in regard to the nature of this “lost paragraph,” it is stated that casualties are heavy, due chiefly to a
rolling barrage which has ceased to roll. Let these unsatisfied thinkers rest in peace. For, it is expected that, after
the annual festivities and withdrawals from the firing zone have been completed, there may still exist an embryonic nucleus of
sufficient strength to produce a thought relative to the occasion. Moreover, lest the Saturnalists become too much engrossed in the
festive moonshine (literally please), it is tactfully suggested that school will reopen exactly three weeks from today. And in regard
to moonshine, there will be a new moon peeping through the windows of the Southern Railway coach on the night
of the first; it will have been exactly two nights old. We wish you a Merry Christmas. Don’t worry—she is
not Santa’s daughter!

Then we bow in deference. But he can’t. And as for Pat Miller over at Wake Forest substituting a Deacon
wingman for the Davidson captain—well, that’s carrying school spirit a little too far, allowing all due credit to the end
who beat Brock out in Mr. Miller’s estimation.

Smokehouse Saga
By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weekly)

Praise Allah and Mohammed his prophet! This is my last column for the fiscal year. (Loud cries of “Hear! Hear!”
and also “Huzzah!”) However, the new year is not far hence. (I guess you knew there was a catch in
it, as the man said when he broke down with the measles.) Whereupon, I roll up my frayed cuffs, spit
on my paddies, and get ready to tear off a good, warm Yuletide story. I believe I'll write on the
dangers of not doing your Christmas shopping early. Here it is:

THE FIGHT BEFORE CHRISTMAS
or
It’s the man who pays, and pays, and pays.

For over two weeks preceding Christmas, little Otto had had the fear of Sandy Claws instilled in his wee, small
soul. He was almost afraid to move lest he misbehave, because he knew that if he once slipped from the
straight and narrow path, Sandy would fill his tiny stocking with nothing but holes. (Here at college, we get that
whether we behave or not.) Up until the fateful day, Otto seemed to possess a heart of gold—cold, yellow, and
hard. At last Christmas Eve arrived with a sickening thud. That night, Otto didn’t want to go to bed. He
wanted to wait up for Sandy Claws, so that his mother wouldn’t keep the home fires burning.

“But, Otto,” said his mother, “you must go beddie-bye.”

No sooner had he gotten in bed than he released a prize-winning yell.

“Somebody’s in my bed, mama,” quoth he.

“Schre-e-e-e-e-e-ech!” screeched his old lady (my dukedom for sound effects!) “Who is it?”

“Oh, it’s me,” he hastened to explain. (X marks editor’s hiding place.) He Otto have known better than to try
to pull that. Well, after little Otto had been chloroformed and tucked in his lil’ crib, the night progressed in
fine style. And sure enough, old Sandy Claws appeared right on schedule. Otto took one look at Sandy’s mug, which
had so many cotton whiskers on it that Otto had a sneaking suspicion that Sandy had stuck his head through
a window without raising it and had had to be bandaged up. The lil’ ray of sunshine then raised another
howl (his second as you may remember). This frightened old Kris Kringle and he tried to escape up the stove
pipe, but it broke and poor old Sandy came down with the flue (luckily, it didn’t turn into pneumonia). About
that time, Sandy Claws spied an open window and went out like a cheap cigar, leaving his pack behind him.
However, there wasn’t a single cigarette in the pack that Sandy left, so it was absolutely worthless. Keep the pot
boiling.

ASBESTOS

And now, kiddies, remember the T. B. will get you if you don’t buy a seal.

P. S. Don’t start a menagerie.

FILLER

“That’s the bunk!” shrieked the chambermaid as the folding cot fell on her.

“I think I'll drop in on the boys,” said the miner as he fell down the shaft.

“Ah, I have you in my grip!” snarled the villain as he threw his toothbrush into his suitcase.

“Drop me a line,” said the second mate as he fell overboard.

“I guess this one stumps me,” wailed the channel swimmer as the shark snapped off a leg.

“It will all come out in the wash,” mused the bridge contractor as he looked at the work he had
just completed.

“That’s nothing,” said the sophomore as he saw the prof put a zero on his test paper.

“Maybe I shouldn’t have brought this up,” murmured the aviator as his plane began to fall.

“The Yanks are coming!” sang the courageous victim as he entered the dentist’s office.

“No noose is good news,” said the pardoned murderer.

“I will now tickle the ivories,” said the dude as he fingered a toothpick.

“See if you can laugh that off,” challenged the fat man’s wife as she wired a button onto his vest.

“Go, and never darken my bathtub again!” yelled the infuriated landlady to the departing student.
—Exchange.

The Editor of our paper told me of one of his latest adventures. He was walking through some woods when
he was pursued by a ferocious bull and a bear. He had only one bullet in his rifle, so he
shot the bear. He knew that he could shoot the bull any old time.
