Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN February 21, 1929

“THE DAVIDSONIAN”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not be published.

BREY BROWN - Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
F. D. MILLER - Managing Editor
C. M. PRATT - Managing Editor
R. F. STUART - Managing Editor
Z. V. TURLINGTON - Sports Editor
W. A. ANDERSON - News Editor
P. B. HARRIS - Society Editor
D. P. LANE - Feature Editor
W. H. HARRIS - Assistant Editor
F. L. BROWN - Assistant Editor
C. R. LAKE - Associate Editor
J. B. MORIARITY - Associate Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
L. A. WILLIAMS - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. HARRIS - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. HARRIS - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
R. F. HARRIS - Circulation Mgr.
H. B. HARRIS - Subscription Mgr.
H. M. HARRIS - Solicitor
G. D. HARRIS - Solicitor
A. N. HARRIS - Solicitor
H. D. HARRIS - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. L. ELLIOTT - President
W. McDERMID - Vice President
E. S. HEEFNER - Secretary-Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN
J. F. PRESTON
C. H. DUBOSE
W. C. RAGIN
R. GRAHAM
D. RUSK
W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
S. H. LONG
S. S. WILEY
J. P. McBRYDE
J. V. D. MIDDLETON

Thursday, February 21, 1929

AND WHAT HAVE YOU?
A Vocational Guidance Editorial

Charles M. Schwab, the great Steel magnate, gives his plan of succeeding in the business world in a book entitled “Succeeding With What You Have” in words which are of interest to college students, a part of which follows:

“We are all salesmen, selling our ideas, our plans, our energies, our enthusiasm to those with whom we come in contact. I have always felt that the surest way to qualify for the job ahead is to work a little harder than anyone else on the job that one is holding down.

“The man who has done his best has done everything; the man who has done less than his best has done nothing. Nothing is more fatal to success than taking one’s job as a matter of course.”

Mr. Schwab says very strikingly, “If more persons would get so enthusiastic over their day’s work that someone would have to remind them to go out to lunch, there would be more happiness in the world and less indigestion.”

As to how to win he says, “If a young man entering industry were to ask for advice, I would say to him: Don’t be afraid of imperiling your health by giving a few extra hours to the company that pays your salary! Don’t be reluctant about putting on overalls! Bare hands grip success better than kid gloves. Be thorough in all things, no matter how small or distasteful. The man who counts his hours and kicks about his salary is a self-enacted failure.”

All of which reminds us that very soon we shall have the opportunity of hearing words of advice and suggestions from many and varied lines of vocational activity when the Vocational Guidance Institute is conducted under the auspices of the local Y. M. C. A. from more angles than simply the one as suggested by Mr. Schwab.

Leading men in the several vocations have been secured to come here for this period to aid that large group of undecided men in choosing a life work and to advise with those who have already determined upon a vocation. And then, there is another great benefit to be derived. Each student, although he may know much about his own vocation, will usually be unfamiliar with the others which are to be represented. Would this not be a splendid opportunity for every man to catch the point of view of the doctor, the lawyer, the manufacturer, the minister, the teacher, and the others, as the different professions are represented by such able men as will be here? Every speaker which has been secured is of a calibre meriting a quick and notable response. They will be worth hearing.

LIFE BY DEGREES

When William Cullen Bryant Kemp, A.B., A.M., M.D., LL.B., LL.D., Ph.D., D.D., Sc.D., Litt.D., (in three different branches) died the other day he established two records. One in collecting such a long and varied list of degrees as given here, and second, in attending college longer than any student, sixty years at Columbia University. Some have called this man the world’s greatest second-hand scholar and probably he was. He took the facts as they were passed out to him, wrote a thesis when it was required, returning the facts as he had received them, unchanged and unprejudiced. He studied, if you please, for sixty years and was enrolled as a student on the day of his death. But even after sixty years Dr. Kemp had much to learn. What he had learned many years ago would not suffice to give him a bare passing grade on the subject today. In sixty more years the facts he had available at death would not pass him on a high school science test.

The doctor was not utterly theoretical, however. An uncle left him $2,500 a year for as long a term of years as he should remain in college, hence the protracted term of residence. $150,000 for sixty years of life! Dying at 78, Dr. Kemp after trying college in practically every student relationship, leaves nothing but the record that nobody wants to surpass, grinding year after year, the metal was gradually worn away without resulting in a stroke for any cause.

A CHANGED SCHEDULE

Three motives seem to have prompted the recent adoption of a new schedule of classes for next term by the faculty, and criticisms of varying natures upon announcement of the change call for an attempt at explanation. First, the change of the chapel hour from 8:30 to 10:20 is evidently a good one affording a better chapel service in itself and an hour or two of sleep—if one has no first hour classes. The latter will be the most important item in student eyes. The chapel service will be at a time of the morning when the attitude will be more attentive and when there will be less of distraction in the way of lately procured mail.

The second notable change is doubtful as to its advantage. The idea back of the shift of the lunch hour to 12:30 seems to have been that there was too long an interval between breakfast and the 1:30 meal, but the feeling on the part of students has been that of preferring to wait until later if there is the likelihood that there will be no afternoon classes. There will be the long period between the noon and evening meals instead of in the morning, and so it seems to be a matter of choice.

In the shifting of classes from the morning to the afternoon in order that the present congestion may be relieved and that more courses may be available to a larger number there is an evident improvement even though the idea of afternoon recitations may not meet with immediate approval. It should be realized that schedules of any kind are difficult to arrange and especially is this true when there must be the approval of such a large number as faculty and students constitute.

A NEW SONG?

Does Davidson need a new song? The question is broad, a new song for what occasions? The answer is, Davidson does need a new song. Davidson needs a new song for the student gatherings, for all occasions where the college is concerned. At present, “Oh Davidson” is a spirited march, it is suitable for the football field, both words and music; but in other lines of sports, the words of the song mean nothing. The present song is something to stir a man when he sees a football team upon the field. But is it something that will stir a man whenever he hears it?

The song “Alma Mater” has a good lyric, but the tune is old, it is not owned by Davidson, many other colleges and universities use it. After a man leaves Davidson the tune as he hears it will mean the same to many other men. It might be played as his “Alma Mater,” or it might be played as the song of some other school. This tune is sometimes listened to move the student, but it has no personal appeal to just one student body.

A new song or tune is needed by Davidson, a song that will sweep everyone to his feet when it is first sounded. A song that is original, one that will be individual. Not a marching song for the football field, not an old tune with merely words full of meaning, but a new lyric and music. Of course such a song cannot be born merely out of the air, for it must have some emotional feeling behind it when it is written, but surely there is someone in school that is able to combine the musical ability and the emotional desire to write a song that will be for Davidson, of Davidson, and part of Davidson in years to come.

BOOSTER OR KNOCKER

In all colleges the majority of the men can be divided into two main classes. The boosters or the knockers. Some will not come under either class, but they are few in number. All colleges are full of the eternal gripers, the ones that are always willing to kick about something, to unload upon the faculty and the college the full burden of anything that goes wrong. Also the colleges are full of many men that are doing their part to make the college a better place in which to live, to improve the college, and if anything goes wrong, to place the blame upon themselves, rather than upon the long-suffering administration.

To which class do most of the Davidson men belong? Such is the “esprit de corps” at Davidson that one is led to the observation that the majority belong to the class of boosters. There are knockers at Davidson, there always will be, for it is human for some men to gripe at nothing. But that class can be cut down. There are enough boosters at the college to outnumber the knockers in noise, and that’s what the knockers mainly do, raise a lot of fuss about nothing. The boosters of Davidson can out-weigh the knockers, but they must make themselves heard. Too often the real supporters of the college say too little, they allow the gripers to say too much to hurt the college, for where a knocker is loud, the booster is generally silent. The only way that this can be overcome is for the real boosters to come forward and say a good word for the college. Too long have the real men kept silent while the others criticized everything in sight. Many men say nothing in defense of matters when someone is attacking them unjustly. The time for the booster is anytime. Any time that someone is hurting the college by word or action, then it is the proper time for the constructive man to do his part for the good of the college.college. RF J, “I know why you don’t like Mr. Gulp. It’s because of his corpulence.” “Oh, I wouldn’t mind that so much, if he wasn’t so fat.” 

Cosmic Chaos 
By J. W. McCutchan 

Conscientious church followers will doubtless find much to discuss concerning young Fred Conrad in Ohio. In order to appease his wearied mind and also to do penance, he has completed thirty-five days of fasting. Neighbors are calling on the village minister to break the “spell,” and yet Conrad fasts on. The days of sacrifices and asceticism are gone, and the Bible states that if any member offended let it be cut off. Others shout the top of their “publicity” at voices. Time will tell. 

Lindy just won't keep out of the press; now he has gone and engaged himself to a charming young lady. Perhaps this will prove more trying in the long run than flying. And yet one shouts “publicity” at this news. But it certainly looks as though the “Lone Eagle” still has his luck. 

Excavators, digging and pottering around in Italy bring back memories of the good “old days.” While unearthing objects in soft ground, once the site of a beautiful lake, Caligula’s golden galley was found. Of palatial proportions, it would do credit to a monarch of finance at the present time. The young emperor of a mighty empire left behind him a somewhat stained and yet gaudy record. Foolish to the point of insanity, his peculiar habits and charity endeared him to the Roman people until tyranny was the result of a demented mind. Thousands were killed at the wave of his white hand. Incitatus, his consul horse, was appointed and given gilded corn to eat in an ivory stable. He is quoted as wishing that the entire population of Rome had only one head in order that he might cut all of them off at once. Il Duce may do it yet. 

A college education does not always make a good and honest citizen, nor does this education combined with hereditary refinement. At the age of seventy-six, Poker Alice has been pardoned by the governor of South Dakota. Still active, able to shoot a revolver with incredible accuracy, and still able to play poker, she smokes her cigar and thinks of the “bad days” in the Black Hills when civilization was young. She has left a record to which Jesse James could point with pride. Will she still keep her poker face in the hereafter? 

In somewhat of desperation we resort to statistics. A year ago only twelve veterans of the Mexican war were living, and most of them were fife and drum boys. Then there is old “Uncle Ance” Watson, colored, who boasts of his 112 years and still picks cotton. But who would think that the number we quote below can be divided by no number above one smaller than itself? The number is: 170, 141, 183, 460, 469, 229, 731, 687, 303, 715, 884, 105, 727. If anyone doubts this, let him try it. 

Who is he? A member of the Senior class. He is a prominent man in the Student Body, and has a characteristic walk. Listen Campus! Good-looking? Be your own judge. He is a wearer of the “BD,” and has two letters. There are those who do not know him, and those who do not can only blame themselves. Who is he? Next time we describe a junior. 

OPEN FORUM 

Mr. Editor: 

Doubtless the tentative schedule for next year has been carefully considered by both faculty and students. Nevertheless, in various discussions among campus members, several points have been mentioned both for and against the new regime. Five minutes in the morning does not make any great difference, but how will sick call be arranged? Either those students who are sick must attend two classes, miss breakfast, or else they must practically all miss the entirety of the first class period. There is a question as to which is the more advisable course, to miss one class or chapel. Then, please consider the case of the boys who have boarding house work. It is all many of them can do to get to class by the first period now. In addition to having class immediately after breakfast, as provided for under the new plan, many of those who do not have classes will sleep late and go to breakfast at a later hour. It takes a hardhearted man to refuse a friend his breakfast. As usual, there seem to be arguments both pro and con, but many members of the student body are in doubt. Also, many Sophomores who were contemplating enrolling for advanced work in the R. O. T. C. department have declared that they are reluctant to do this since all the drills are in the afternoon. 

Hopefully, yours, 

WANTON WILES 
By Dave Anderson 

Spring has come! They are sprinkling grass seeds around for the birds to eat. In the spring a young man’s fancy turns to love—and how! Our fault we meant where and when—we know how! “Spring Fever” is the name for our natural laziness. Thanks to the guy who invented the malady, we have an excuse for part of the year at least. 

Ike was a typical member of his race. Some one followed him down the street one day. Ike had a twenty dollar bill—meeting a prosperous gentleman, he got his twenty changed into ones. Down the street further, he exchanged his ones for another twenty and went his way. Later on he got the twenty changed again. This changing process kept up for quite a while until an acquaintance stopped him: “Say, Ike, what's the idea of getting that money changed back and forth?” “Vell,” sez Ike, “It’s this vay. Soon somevun is going to make a mistake and it ain't gonna be Ikie.” 

FROM THE BRIEF CASE 

One of Davidson's professors, in turning the pages of a book, licks his thumb on the right hand and then uses his other hand to turn the page. What causes that? 

Columbus’ sailors didn't know how true their statements were when, on sighting the U. S., they shouted “Dry land!” 

If your ancestors were Elks, Moose, and Lions, does that make you a product of evolution? 

Little Johnny, age eight, was playing in the slime of a hog-wallow, molding statutes. A Queens girl passing by inquired: “Whatcha making, sonny?” “Making a Davidson man,” was the cunning reply. “Why don'tcha make a Duke man?” “Ain't got enough mud.” 

MISS PRUDE’S ADVICE TO GIRLS 

(This one is post-marked Pascagoula, Miss. If the other girl there will write us, we will check that city off our list). 

Dear Miss Prude: 

I am a young girl in my late teens. I have an invitation to come to Davidson for the Senior House Party on the weekend of the twenty-second. What kind of climate do you have up there? Should I bring a fur coat? Just what should I bring to wear? 

(Signed) Perplexed. 

Thanks very much for the letter and the enclosed picture. Judging from the picture, you had better forget about evening dresses, fur coats, and the like and bring along a troop of Boy Scouts to keep the crowds back. My advice is for you not to come at all. You shouldn't do anything to keep the other girls from getting a rush. I am sorry to hear that the fire department in Pascagoula is out of order. Do hope the gentleman will get well and back to active service soon. My regards to the Dean of Women, 

Miss Prude. 

WANT ADS 

Wanted: The “bull” that the editor of this column left in Charlotte last Thursday night. The owner has missed this valuable pet and will pay well for his return. Reward of an odd sock returned to us by the Davidson Shirt Tearing Co. Inc. will be paid the finder. See Managing Editor Pratt. 

CUTE SAYINGS OF CHILDREN 

(One cent will be paid (cash, check or money order) for any contributions to this section.) 

Little Bobbie Jarratt, age nineteen, was being shown about the campus. “This,” sez the guide, “This is the Davidsonian office.” They say little Bobbie cursed the day he was born—and he has an exceptional memory. 

WELL, WHO CARES? 

A prominent American doctor says that in 50 years kissing will be a thing of the past. As if we would care—then, 

Contemporary Thought 

SCHOLASTIC DELINQUENCY 

CRITICIZING THE SCHEDULE 

University of Washington Daily—During the course of the scholastic year concluded last June, some sixteen hundred students acquired grades sufficiently low to convince the University their presence at this school was quite unnecessary. Hence the compilation of the names of the aforementioned group to form the flunk list. “You didn't study,” professors told the majority of the students dissatisfied with their fate. To which accusations the students usually retorted with the rebuttals of illness and over-work. These causes, as well as several others, were responsible for the size of the flunk list. A faculty member has compiled a plausible list of reasons for unsatisfactory work, including the following nine suggestions: 

1. Insufficient high school training. Students who lack the solid foundation of a thorough preparatory education are seriously handicapped. They have not learned to study effectively, to concentrate on their work. 
2. Mental incapacity. In some cases, students are unable to grasp their studies, to think and work under pressure. As a rule, these students have comparatively poor memories. 
3. Wrong mental attitude. 
4. Physical handicaps. 
5. Outside work or campus activities are emphasized too heavily. 
6. Schedules are too heavy. 
7. Failure to study. 
8. Poor quality of instruction. 
9. Financial or family difficulties. 

An interesting list, and one that explains for the most part a list that included sixteen hundred names. 

THE MODERN STUDENT AND RELIGION 

S. M. U. Campus—It is no secret that a large percentage of modern young people have turned away from organized religion because of skepticism as to its sufficiency. In a recent address before the Forum of S. M. U., Rabbi David Lefkowitz advised: “If we possess doubts on certain things, my advice is to go and study the matter out.” Herein lies the failure of many students in their dealing with religion. The slightest doubt and uncertainty leads to the hasty conclusion that religion is a mere fancy and the church a hypocritical agency. There is no “studying of the matter out” with them: no thinking the thing through. Even the profoundest of churchmen have honest queries concerning mysteries which they never expect to hear answered, but their faith is none the less staunch. Happy would youth be could it learn that truth. 

The youth today possesses a most admirable critical faculty. Such a possession is valuable, provided it is used sincerely. We find youth using it in relation to literature, art, the stage, and the home—and often with laudable results. But youth itself—rather than the church—plays the hypocrite by scientifically ferreting out the values in other places of life and at the same time dismissing the undisputable values of religion as mere sentiment—with a careless shrug of the shoulders.