THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12, 1929

RECENT ALUMNI DEATHS

Births

Dr. Walter P. Craven, ’72
Walter Pharr Craven, member of the class of 1872, died at his home near Huntersville Thursday, December 5th, at the age of 84 years, death being the result of a heart attack. Dr. R. S. Burwell, ’75, a former pastor, officiated at the funeral on Friday. Dr. Craven entered Davidson from Randolph County and was here for one year, 1868-1869. He then went to the University of North Carolina, where he obtained his M.D. degree, and for fifty years had practiced medicine in Mecklenburg County. The deceased was a Confederate Veteran and was a member of the Mecklenburg County Medical Society. He was also interested in Davidson, and a year or two ago attended a meeting of the Charlotte Alumni Association of Davidson.

D. A. McGregor, '79
Daniel Alexander McGregor, graduate of Davidson in the class of 1879, died at his home in Wadesboro Sunday night, December 1st, after a period of declining health extending over several years. He was the oldest Davidson alumnus in Anson County, and for many years had been prominent in the affairs of Wadesboro and that section, particularly in the education field. Mr. McGregor spent all of his life in Wadesboro, with the exception of the first five months after graduation, when he taught at Long Pine, N.C. For years he was head of the Anson Institute, once a well-known private school of Wadesboro. Later he was principal of the Wadesboro public schools for years. About twenty years ago he ceased teaching and engaged in the insurance field, retiring two years ago. Aside from his educational contribution, in which field he was declared to be unexcelled in thoroughness, he was active in the prohibition campaigns of twenty years ago, was for a number of years chairman of the Democratic county executive committee, and was also a town commissioner a number of times.

Rev. J. M. Clark, D.D., ’86
Rev. John McMillan Clark, D.D., graduate of Davidson in the class of 1886, died suddenly and unexpectedly at his home in Statesville last Saturday afternoon, December 7. Dr. Clark had been ill for several days, but had apparently improved when there was a sudden change for the worse. Following his graduation from Davidson he went to Union Theological Seminary for his ministerial preparation. He first took up pastoral work in Robeson County, but was called to Bolivar, Tenn. From Tennessee he went to Texas, then Mississippi, and Oklahoma. In the latter state he was superintendent and evangelist for the state of Oklahoma for two years, returning to North Carolina in 1917. He had been superintendent and evangelist of Concord Presbytery until a year ago, when he resigned. Dr. Clark’s work merited attention and his Alma Mater conferred upon him the degree of doctor of divinity. For many years he has been a member of the Board of Trustees and has been active in the affairs of Davidson.

J. L. McFadyen, ’99
John Lauchlin McFadyen, member of the class of 1899, died suddenly at Raeford, November 20th. Mr. McFadyen had been ill about a month before but was apparently well. He went to the office of McKeithen and Campbell the day of his death and was seen to place his hand on a table to steady himself and then to fall to the floor. He was dead when the nearest person reached his side. The deceased spent two years at Davidson and then went to the University of North Carolina, where he graduated. In 1917, he was a cotton buyer and fertilizer dealer and was also engaged in the real estate business, being one of the leading businessmen of Raeford and popular in that city. Mr. McFadyen was a veteran of the Spanish-American War. During his days at Davidson and Carolina he was a varsity football player and an all-round athlete. He enjoyed perfect health until recently. Dr. A. A. McFadyen, '99, medical missionary to China, is among the survivors.

Alumni Marriages

Bullock-Pittard
J. G. Pittard announces the marriage of his daughter, Susan Cobb, to John Watkins Bullock, both of Bullock, N.C., on Saturday, November 30. Mrs. Bullock received her education at Teachers College, Greenville, N.C. Mr. Bullock graduated from Davidson, served in the World War, and is now engaged in business at Bullock.

Stowe-Chafin
Charles Theodore Stowe, of Belmont, N.C., and Miss Jeanne Beatrice Chafin, of Augusta, Ga., were married at the home of the bride’s sister in Augusta Sunday afternoon, November 24th. Mrs. Stowe attended the Georgia State College for Women. Mr. Stowe was in the class of 1928, and is associated with his father in the textile business at Belmont, where the bride and groom are now at home.

Poole-Nance
Mr. and Mrs. I. C. Nance, of Troy, announce the marriage of their daughter, Hilda, to Calvin Knox Poole, of Mt. Gilead, Wednesday afternoon, December 4. Mrs. Poole was educated at Queens College in Charlotte. Mr. Poole graduated from Davidson last June and is now on the faculty at Mount Gilead high school.

WILDCATS VS. CATAWBA
(Continued from page 1)
the Catawba Indians from Salisbury. This game, the only one before the opening of the strenuous schedule after the holidays, will be of great interest, and will serve to give Coach Younger a slant at the team.

Rev. D. P. McGeachey, ’22, and Mrs. McGeachey, of Atlanta, Ga., announce...the birth of a son, Daniel Patrick, III, on November 17. Mr. Ralph S. Robinson, ’23, and Mrs. Robinson, of Memphis, Tenn., announce the birth of a daughter, Ann Smyre, on November 25. Coach Norman Shephard, ’23, and Mrs. Shephard, of Ashland, Va., announce the birth of a daughter, Edith Westbrook, on November 20. Mr. Graham White, ’25, and Mrs. White, of Louisville, Ky., announce the birth of a son, Richard Graham, Jr., in October. Mr. A. G. Wright, ’25, and Mrs. Wright, of Winston-Salem, announce the birth of a son, Jack Milton, on November 18.

Monk And Tex Pick All-State Gridmen

Monk Younger and Tex Tilson, coaches of Davidson College Wildcat football team, this year collaborated in selecting their all-state eleven, and chose one which was in accord with each other’s ideas. In past years each one has picked a separate all-state, because of differences of opinion. An examination of their choice shows that the University of North Carolina placed six men, two were allotted to Duke University, while State, Wake Forest and Davidson were granted one each. No second-team selection was made. Their pick is as follows:

Ends—Jordan (State) and Brock (Davidson).
Tackles—Kistler (Duke) and Koenig (Carolina).
Guards—Farris (Carolina) and Parker (Wake Forest).
Center—Lipscomb (Carolina).
Quarterback—Branch (Carolina).
Halfbacks—Buie (Duke) and Ward (Carolina).
Fullback—Magner (Carolina).

The best candidates for his first string quintet: Captain Johnston and Pritchett at forwards, Rusk at center, Good and Proctor at guards seems to be the lineup most likely to start the fray. Frequent substitutions are expected as the Wildcat mentor tests his men.

BEST CHRISTMAS GIFT—A GOOD BOOK

Here Are Two by a Davidson Alumnus, ’78
King John, A Tale of the South—Second edition.
The Only Nancy, A Tale of the Kentucky Mountains—Third edition.
They sold first for $3.10. Go now for 60c a copy, postage paid. Am closing out. Only a few copies left. Order at once. Sent to any address.
George F. Robertson, Mount Holly, N. C.

ALUMNI PERSONALS

Dr. J. Allison Hodges, ’79, of Richmond, Va., spoke last week before the Seaboard Medical Association of Virginia and North Carolina. Doctor Hodges is president-elect of the Medical Society of Virginia.

Allison A. James, ’07, has been elected president of the Winston-Salem Kiwanis Club. He was also made a director of that organization.

J. W. DeArmon, ’24, won the annual fall golf championship of the Statesville Country Club. In winning, he eliminated the best golfers in Statesville.

Rev. W. M. Baker, ’09, pastor of the Mt. Olive Presbyterian Church for the past 12 years, has accepted a call to the Presbyterian Church at Mebane.

Dr. I. A. Yow, ’07, and Dr. D. G. Caldwell, ’20, both of Concord, have been elected president and secretary-treasurer, respectively, of the Cabarrus County Medical Society.

Rev. C. N. Morrison, '21, is now vice-president of the Greensboro Ministerial Association.

O. J. Allison, '23, was recently chosen as president of the Civic Club of Winston-Salem.

Dr. Frank A. Sharpe, '10, of Greensboro, was selected as president of the Guilford County Medical Society. At the same meeting Dr. J. T. Burrus, of High Point, was named as a delegate to the state convention at Pinehurst.

Dr. R. M. King, 1900, of Concord, oldest member of the school board in that city, has been made chairman of that body.

BILLY BEST EVERY THURSDAY At Norton’s Barber Shop SEE GEO. W. LA PITZ

J. Caldwell McDonald, ’15, operator of many filling-stations in Charlotte, recently formed a corporation known as the McDonald Service Stores, Inc., of Greensboro. Authorized capital stock was $200,000, $25,000 of which was subscribed stock.

Rev. R. T. Coit, D.D., '02, missionary to Korea, has been brought to this country because of illness, and is now under the care of physicians at Johns Hopkins Hospital, Phipps Clinic, Baltimore, Md.

THE COST OF AVIATION

“Year after year, more and more of the collegiate crew are clamoring aloft, aided by plane,” says A. J. Maxwell in his article “The Cost of Aviation” which appears in the December issue of College Humor. “Male and female among the learning, hungry folk are flitting about the taller spots as companions for the lapwing and the linnet. Hoarse cackles of, ‘Unsafe’ might as well just settle all unborn athwart the larynx. Statistics all fresh arrayed in armor bright lay more abundant death to dread disease and accident. As pointed out by Major Schroeder, chief test pilot for the United States during the war, and now with Curtiss Flying Service, some twenty-nine persons were kicked to pieces by mules in Arkansas some few years hence. No single pilot yielded up his life in that state during those selfsame months. How much safer those unfortunates aloft, for one seldom meets a mule while leaping through the clouds. This, of course, should serve warning to all air travelers to leave their mules at home.”

“I want a quarter’s worth of rat poison.”
“Do you want to take it with you?”
“No, I'll send the rats after it.”

MUTT RODDY

Shoe Cleaning Shoe Repairing

Christmas Cheer And a Happy New Year Is Our Wish for You

WRIGHT CLEANING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Pressing Altering

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

CHRISTMAS

See Our Complete Line of Gifts
Candies, Cards, Stationery
Week-end Cases, Toilet Sets
Many Useful Gifts

White Drug Company

“SODA” “SUNDRIES”

SEE +> HEAR

The New VICTOR MICRO-SYNCHRONOUS RADIO AND RADIOLA

See Them At PARKER GARDINER CO. 16 West Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Victor & Brunswick Records - Furniture And Draperies