se | THE DAVIDSONIAN SPARTANBURG TERRIERS FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 3, 1929 No. 3

Frats Conclude Season With Ninety-Two Pledges

EXTENSIVE PREPARATIONS ARE BEING MADE FOR WEST POINT GAME

Davidson Alumnus Plans to Write Feature Story of Struggle for Paper

TEAMS IN GOOD SHAPE

Wire to Bring Play-by-Play Returns to Gymnasium

The following letter will prove of interest both to students and faculty, because it shows something of the spirit which remains intact in all alumni of the college. Incidentally, the letter carries the promise of a real treat, for Captain Mullen proposes to write a story of the Davidson-Army game just as he sees it. The account should be colorful and attractive, and all readers of this paper will probably await its appearance eagerly.

The student body voted last Tuesday morning at the chapel period to support Ernest Milton in his effort to get a play-by-play return of the game from the playing field at West Point. It is expected that practically the entire student body will throng the gymnasium on the afternoon of October 12 to receive the play-by-play reports.

Captain W. A. Dumas, of the class of 1915, has been making splendid arrangements to receive and entertain the Wildcats at West Point. Captain Dumas is an instructor at the military academy. W. P. Anderson, 26 Beaver St., New York City, Captain Dumas and Ernest Milton, the Alumni Secretary here, have all been cooperating to entertain nearly two hundred alumni of Davidson at a great reunion on the eve of the game. Following is Captain Mullen’s letter:

Box 250, New York, September 23, 1929,

The Editor, “The Davidsonian,” Davidson, N. C.

Dear Sir:

I have learned with a great deal of pleas- (Continued on page 8)

Committee is Arranging For Series of Lectures

Dr. Hamilton Holt is Sought as Speaker

The faculty Committee on Lectures, represented by Dr. E. F. Shewmake, Chairman, Dr. Thos. W. Lingle, and Prof. K. J. Foreman, is making an effort to acquire Hamilton Holt, president of Rollins College in Florida for a lecture. Doctor Holt plans a visit to New York some time this month, and it is the desire of the Committee to have him stop off at Davidson en route.

Doctor Holt was formerly Editor of “The Independent” and is at present one of the executives of the Independent Publishing Company. Rollins College, of which he is president, is operated on the two-hour conference plan, by which the students are required to spend two hours in class, one in preparation, the other in conference with attendant professors.

The general plan of the Committee, according to Professor Shewmake, is to link the lectures with the work in the different departments of instruction. To that end, a lecturer on Physics, one on Fine Arts, one on Germany, and others on various subjects will be engaged. Their names will be announced later. One definite engagement has been effected, with Mr. George Bucher for March 21. Mr. Bucher will talk on the Romance of Germany, including art, music, literature, and other aspects of life in Germany. The lecture will be illustrated by slides. More information about the subject will be released before March 21.

Harper Loving Cup Is Awarded to BKA

The Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, having made the highest average of any of the nine national fraternities at Davidson College, has been awarded the James C. Harper loving cup for the coming year. The members of this chapter averaged an even 87 per cent. The Sigma Alpha Epsilon followed closely with an average of 86.75 per cent.

Other national fraternities and their averages are: Kappa Alpha, 86.15; Theta Upsilon Omega, 85.75; Phi Delta Theta, 85.25; Beta Theta Pi, 85.20; Kappa Sigma, 84.70; Pi Kappa Phi, 83.30; Phi Gamma Delta, 82.85. The Pyramid Club, being a local fraternity, was ineligible for this competition, averaged 85.10; Alpha Omega, a local fraternity organized during the past year, was not included in the averaging.

The James C. Harper loving cup was given by James C. Harper, of the class of 1915, in honor of his father and grandfather, and is annually presented to the fraternity with the highest scholastic average. If won three times successively, it automatically becomes that fraternity’s property, but no fraternity group has been able to accomplish this since the cup was offered.

Although the student body averages at Davidson have not been compiled in late years, it is believed that the general fraternity average of 85.1 per cent for all the eleven social groups on the campus would be at least two points higher than the student body average. Several years ago the 600 students averaged between 82 and 83 per cent and if this has not been increased, it is evident that fraternity life does not hamper the scholastic work of the individual but rather enhances it.

Luther Little to Speak at Vespers

Dr. Luther Little, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Charlotte, will speak at the “Y” Vespers next Sunday evening. Doctor Little is a speaker of merit, having attained a world-wide reputation by his lectures broadcast through WBT in Charlotte. His lectures were first broadcast from this station several years ago and have continued every Sunday night almost without interruption since. Incidentally, Dr. Little was the first minister to regularly broadcast sermons over the radio. In this field he acted as a pioneer, and in his path has followed a multitude.

In delivery he holds his audiences’ attention from beginning to end, and a wide experience gives him latitude in selecting interesting topics and illustrations. (Continued on Page 2)

Library Schedule

Several important changes have been inaugurated in the college library this year which will be of interest to the students. Three and one-half hours have been added to the actual time the book department is open each day. Closing time for the reading rooms has been changed from eleven o'clock, as it was last year, to nine o'clock. The book department will not be open after six o’clock on Saturdays. A complete schedule of library hours is as follows:

Reading Room— 9 A. M. to 9 P. M.—Weekdays. (Continued on page 8)

Freshman Coach Red Laird takes his yearlings to Oak Ridge Friday for their first clash of the season.

Wildcats Meet Wofford Terriers in Spartanburg For Third Game of Year

Twelfth Game Between Cats and Terriers Promises to be Thrilling One

At Spartanburg, S. C., next Saturday, Coach Younger’s Davidson Wildcats will seek revenge for last year’s defeat at the hands of the Wofford College eleven. The series of games between the two schools started way back in 1914 with a great victory for Davidson, but since 1921 the Wofford boys have gradually shown more resistance to the attacks of the Cats until last year, for the first time in the history of the two schools, Davidson suffered defeat at their hands. This year will tell a different tale if signs can beJudged. The powerful Davidson eleven, which put up such a fine battle with the Clemson Tigers last Saturday, scoring twice even though outweighed by several pounds per man, will give something well worthy of consideration. This is the third game of the Cats for this season. With their team doped to win, the student body is resting with an ease born of confidence in their plucky warriors. The team, however, will not be without student support. A goodly number will journey south with the team while those at home will support them in thought and spirit. The probable lineup for the game will be as follows:

Davidson Position Wofford
Brock (C) ------- LE --------- Peay
Speake --------- LT --------- Page
King --------- LG --------- McGee
Mason --------- Center --------- Inabinet
Miller --------- RG --------- Gibson
Covington --------- RT --------- Gleaton

(Continued on Page 7)

Scabbard and Blade Meets in New Hall

For the first time in its history, the local chapter of Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, initiated the school year with a meeting in their new, well-furnished hall last night in Oak Row. The discussions of the plans for the fall activities were not disclosed, but will be divulged in the near future, Major Bill Hill, presiding officer, stated. The new hall will be a splendid asset to the fraternity, since it has been comfortably furnished and will serve as a very desirable meeting place. Unique in its appearance, the wall decorations include sabres, rifles, and helmets, and to accentuate its militaristic semblance, a machine-gun lies in the background of the room. Seven members, all of whom were initiated last spring, remain to pursue the work of the Reserve Officers Training Corps. The membership will probably be augmented by selections to be made this fall, providing that new men are revealed as meriting the honor. Qualifications do not only include splendid character, good scholastic standing, and natural ability, but the cadet must be an outstanding student. Eligibility for membership extends only to those men who are taking advanced military training and who are planning to procure admission in the R.O.T.C. upon graduation. The prime function of Scabbard and Blade is to adhere to their principal purpose which calls for the preservation and development of the essential qualities of good and efficient cadet officers in addition to bringing closer social contact between the student officers. Officers other than Major Hill are Lieut. Bill Morrison, 2nd Lieut. Guire, 1st Lieut. Louis Roberts.

(Continued on page 5)

Gifted Reporters in Freshman Class

There seems to be a wealth of reporting material in the ranks of the class of thirty-three according to the number of men who are trying out for the Reporters Club. This organization requires some talent and a great deal of work to join its number but the candidates this year seem to have an abundance of that quality known as “knack.” The following men are reporting for work on The Davidsonian at the present time: Bagby, J. A., Taylor, B. B., Preston, S. P., Steadman, R. A., Henley, T. F., Noblin, S. M., Davis, T. M., Boyd, J. E., Boyd, J. H., Miller, Geo., Elvery, Freeze, Raies, Lilly, Ward, Silver, Marvin, Ervin, Alderman, R. H., Rachal, Bryant, S. J., McBryde, D. D., Croker, Myers, C. F., Sisson, C. A., McDavid, M. F.

Honor Roll—Spring 1929

Freshmen—DuBose, E. B., Enloe, R. P., McConnell, J. D., McLean, T. W.
Sophomores—Munroe, H. S., Wiley, S. S.
Juniors—Brown, F. R., Brown, J. L., Edelman, A. T., Johnston, F. W., Knox, J. B., McGavock, W. G., McGuire, W. B., Marks, J. R., Marsh, E. E.
Seniors—Albright, C. J., Brown, S. Y., Davidson, H. S., Dumas, W. L., Fry, G. A., Gilmour, M. T., Hall, F., Graham, J. B., Harrill, H. C., Hayes, R. B., Hill, T. R., Jennings, H. B., Kirkland, L. D., McConnell, E. R., Martin, D. F., Moriarty, J. B., Weaver, W. R.

Eleven Social Groups Pledge Forty Percent of Big Freshman Class

THREE WEEKS RUSHING

Total of One Hundred and Thirty-Four Bids Extended

Following an intensive three-week season of rushing, the eleven social fraternities on the campus extended one hundred and thirty-four bids to freshmen Tuesday, this number including conflicts. Eighty-seven members of the class were pledged Tuesday night, and five upperclassmen were also pledged, for a total of ninety-two men on bid day. The percentage of freshmen bids was slightly over forty. The fraternities and their accepting pledges are as follows:

Beta Theta Pi—S. A. Robinson, Jr., Gastonia; J. G. Marvin, Beacham, Jr., Wadesboro; H. N. Smith, Tehula, Miss.; O. E. Guerrant, Pasadena, Calif.; B. B. Taylor, Jr., Baton Rouge, La.
Kappa Alpha—D. M. McConnell, Chester, S. C.; E. A. Hancock, Bluefield, W. Va.; W. A. Flinn, Atlanta, Ga.; R. L. McAulay, Chattanooga, Tenn.; J. E. Lake, Atlanta, Ga.; S. M. McKee, Brevard.
Kappa Sigma—L. G. Sanford, Mocksville; C. M. Norfleet, Jr., Winston-Salem; U. B. Gardner, I. Mullens and H. L. Cavan, all of Decatur, Ga.; F. K. Fleagle, Jr., Davidson; J. T. Lowe, Lexington.
Phi Delta Theta—J. W. Dodge, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.; J. M. Steele, Decatur, Ga.; Robert Glasgow, Jr., Charlotte; S. B. Brooks and J. D. Enochs, both of Bluefield, W. Va.; W. J. Davis, Rome, Ga.; R. W. Noone, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Phi Gamma Delta—W. A. Mebane, Burlington; J. S. Creech, Winston-Salem; S. P. Preston, II, Lewisburg, W. Va.; C. W. Freeman, Jr., Bramwell, W. Va.; W. D. Poole, Troy; W. M. Monroe, Jr., Fayetteville.

(Continued on Page 7)

Organ Teacher Secured By Department of Music

Charlotte Man to Teach Twice a Week

Eugene Craft of Charlotte has been secured by the music department of Davidson as teacher of piano and organ. This is the first year organ lessons have been given here, and quite a demand has been created for organ study by the installation of the new Skinner organ in the auditorium of Chambers. Mr. Craft is a former pupil of the great French organist, Marcel Dupres, who gave an organ recital this week at the new Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. The music department of Davidson considers itself fortunate in being able to secure his services as a teacher of organ for two days a week. Because of the increasing demand among both students and townspeople for organ study, an arrangement has been made with the Board of Deacons of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church whereby the organ belonging to the church may be used for practice purposes while advanced students will have the opportunity to use the new organ in Chambers. Although credit is given for organ study, students show earnestness in their desire for music study. The old classrooms of Shearer Hall have been turned over to the music department. One is used as a practice room for the college band, while others will be used for piano or other instrumental practice.

(Continued on page 8)