DAVIDSON—WAR MEMORIAL WAKE-FOREST STADIUM SATURDAY GREENSBORO “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 24, 1929 No. 6

Four Prominent Seniors Receive Bids From Local Phi Beta Kappa Chapter
Organization Founded at William and Mary in 1776

FIRST ELECTION OF YEAR
Edelman, Marsh, Knox, and Brown Selected Because of High Scholastic Standing

Four members of the class of 1930, A. T. Edelman, E. E. Marsh, J. B. Knox, and F. R. Brown, were issued bids for membership by the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary fraternity. Phi Beta Kappa, which is the oldest Greek letter fraternity in the United States, was founded in 1776 at William and Mary College. Originally a social organization, its membership is now filled almost entirely upon a basis of scholarship. One hundred fourteen chapters are now to be found in the universities and colleges of the country. The local chapter, Gamma of North Carolina, which consists entirely of the members of the Davidson faculty, holds two elections each year. In the fall, bids are made to men of the graduating class upon the basis of their first three years standing. Later, in the spring, other bids may be issued. Bids are also issued to alumni, upon the basis of their achievements after graduation as well as their standing while in college. These bids will be announced later upon their acceptance. While scholarship is certainly the primary prerequisite for membership, great potentialities must be apparent in a student and he must be of a sterling character.

A. T. Edelman, whose home is in Goldsboro, is a member of Beta Theta Pi, social fraternity, and was historian of his class last year. He is at present planning to study law at Harvard. E. E. Marsh is a member of the varsity debating team and is the president of the Eumenean Literary Society. Marshville, N. C., is his home. J. B. Knox, of Liberty, S. C., is an Eta Sigma Phi and is vice-president of the Philanthropic Literary Society. He belongs to the Pyramid Club, local social fraternity. The honors of Frank R. Brown, of Greens- (Continued on Page 7)

Davidson Alumnus Escorts McDonald
Captain LeRoy A. Mullen of the class of 1916, who is now attached to the Department of State in New York City, accompanied the party of Premier J. Ramsay McDonald on his recent visit to the United States as an official representative of his office. Captain Mullen had offered to write a feature article for the Davidsonian on the Davidson-Army game, but he was unable to do so on account of the British Premier’s visit. Below are extracts from a letter which he wrote the Editor of the Davidsonian explaining his inability to write the article, and telling some interesting events which occurred while he was with the official party.

Dear Mr. Editor:
“Some time ago I wrote you of my plans to attend the Davidson-Army game, and my desire to contribute a special article for the benefit of your readers. Unfortunately, what might be described as “matters of state” subsequently transpired and made it quite impossible for me to attend the game; that is to say, I was instructed by the Department of State to accompany the Right Honorable J. Ramsay McDonald, Prime Minister of Great Britain, on his visit to the United States, commencing with his first setting foot on American soil at the Battery in New York, until he crossed the American-Canadian line at Niagara Falls. As contracts are usually made subject to ‘strikes, lock-outs, acts of God and the restraint of Princes’ (cf. A. Currie), I believe my failure to provide the article may be excused under the last named category.

“In the belief that you might enjoy a few side-lights on the Prime Minister’s trip I (Continued on page 6)

Dean Charles G. Vardell
Who will render an organ recital on the first of November.

Wildcats to Meet Deacons Saturday
Davidson Holds Edge With Ten Victories Against Three Defeats

The 1929 edition of Coach Monk Younger’s Wildcat football eleven makes its initial appearance into the “Big Five” grid circle of the state in Greensboro next Saturday with the Deacon Demons of Wake Forest furnishing opposition. The Baptists came through with a win last season after the Deacons and Wildcats had knotted the count for three successive years. This game, which Wake Forest won by a 25 to 6 score, was played on a neutral field at Charlotte. By virtue of the stubborn defense and flashy attack presented by Davidson in the past two tilts Younger’s eleven is conceded a slight edge over the Deacons. Davidson's early season lack of pass defense now seems to be past history with three of the Citadel’s passes intercepted and many more knocked down by the Wildcat defense. With this defect remedied to this degree the Davidson team is considered much more formidable than early season predictions would indicate. The Deacon Demons, on the other hand, played a brand of football at the state fair last week that came very near carrying the Baptists to a well-earned victory over the “Wolf Pack” of N. C. State. This would indicate that the Wake Forest club is going to be a hard foe with which to compete. Unquestionably the Deacon Demons are stronger this season, and with the increased strength of the Davidson squad the battle in Greensboro’s World War Memorial Stadium Saturday should be a classic. Wake Forest and Davidson have encountered each other on the gridiron in sixteen tilts, and the Wildcats have been victorious on ten of the occasions. The Deacon Demons have won but two engagements, defeating Davidson with the great Baptist combination of 1923, and again humbling Coach Younger’s outfit last fall. The remaining four tilts resulting in tied scores between the Presbyterians and Baptists. Results of contests for all-time are as follows:

Year Wake Forest Davidson
1908 4 31
1910 0 32
1911 7 13
1915 0 6
1916 6 7
1917 7 21
1919 0 21
1920 0 27
1921 7 10
1922 6 0
1923 7 3
1924 13 13

DEDICATION EXERCISES OF NEW ORGAN TO BE CONDUCTED NOV. 1, WITH DEAN CHARLES VARDELL GIVING RECITAL

Variety Night Program Scores Great Success
The visitors and students who attended the entertainment Saturday night in the auditorium of Chambers Building were rewarded with a pleasing and well-rounded program. The program was sponsored by the College Y. M. C. A. and participated in by the Queens College Glee Club and the Red and Black Masquers, with a reception in the new banquet hall following the performance.

Thirty-five students of Queens College, members of the Glee Club, arrived in Davidson about 2:30 Saturday afternoon. Preparations had been made for their entertainment while here, and they were escorted to the game and shown about the campus by students. The program opened with a one-act play, “Copy,” given by the Red and Black Masquers. The story dealt with the life of a newspaper man, as the name implies. His calmness and self-control at a time when the ordinary man could not go on with his work was ably portrayed by Stewart Meacham, the editor. H. M. Moffett, Jr., cast in the role of a stuttering reporter, was very entertaining. Other members of the cast, who contributed to the success of the play were as follows: J. Z. Preston, F. D. Miller, Watson Wharton, E. A. Hancock, and J. B. Black.

The next part of the program was an offering in which Queens and Davidson combined. Miss Martha Dulin and Dus Enochs sang “Vagabond Lover” and “The Desert Song.” The Glee Club then gave a varied program. The whole Club sang one selection, followed by a violin solo played by Miss Murphy. Other features on the program were a solo by Miss Iris Bryson, several entertaining numbers by Miss Nina Cranford, and an accordion selection. The Glee Club very effectively rendered “Rio Rita,” the theme song of the musical comedy by that name, using costumes. The program was concluded by the singing of the Queens Alma Mater by the chorus. After this program in the auditorium, everyone went to the new banquet hall where refreshments were served, and a most enjoyable social hour offered.The hall was beautifully decorated in an atmosphere of Hallowe’en. The College Orchestra furnished a colorful background of music during this social hour.

Chambers Auditorium to Be Scene of Services

Beginning at Vesper Services on Sunday afternoon, October 27, and lasting through the evening of October 30, the Fall Evangelistic services will be conducted under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. Dr. Samuel W. Glasgow, of Knoxville, Tenn., one of the leading Presbyterian ministers of the South, will be the very able speaker. Contrary to time-honored custom, the services will, this year, be held in the New Chambers Auditorium instead of in Shearer Hall. There will be two services daily, one at chapel and another at 7:00 p.m. This evening service will last about forty-five minutes. For the convenience of students, the schedule of the local movie will be arranged to enable them to go to both the services and the show. To give Doctor Glasgow more time at chapel, the recitation period will be shortened by five minutes, chapel being made twenty minutes longer.

CORRECTIONS

Professor J. H. Davis and Associate Professor Trusdale have their home address with Mrs. W. H. Wooten on South Main St. Professor L. B. Schenck is at home on North Main St. Associate Professor Weaver is at home with Mrs. N. T. Smith at her home back of dormitory row.

O.D.K. To Observe Fall Tap Day Soon

Tuesday, November 5, has been set by the local chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa as its Fall Tap Day. The chapel services on that day will be in charge of O. D. K. men, and at the close of the devotional service, the “tapping” of candidates will proceed. Omicron Delta Kappa is a national leadership fraternity with chapters in many colleges and universities throughout the country. Davidson is represented by Delta Circle, and the local group rates well to the fore in the national organization. Twice a year, in the fall and again in the spring, O. D. K. holds the impressive “Tap Day” exercise. On these occasions, prominent men are selected from the student body to receive bids. The offering of the bid is signified as a member of O. D. K. leaves the platform, walks out into the student body, and taps his man on the shoulder. The man thus tapped signifies his intention of accepting the bid by rising and following his tapper to the platform, where he receives the colors of the order and his certificate. It is a very impressive ceremony, climaxed as the whole student body rises and sings “O. Davidson.”

Ability of Glasgow Is Known to Many

Students Testify as to Character of Outstanding Minister

As the date for the fall evangelistic services approaches, the Y. M. C. A. officials get congratulations from many sources on the man whom they have chosen to conduct the meetings. With many of these congratulations come testimonials as to the winning personality and the driving force that is found in Doctor Glasgow. Dr. Ben Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary, says in a recent letter: “Every type of student at Davidson will like Sam Glasgow. Although a Washington and Lee man, he comes nearer fitting into the Davidson picture than any man I can think of. He is direct. There will be no dodging of an issue, whether it be in private conversation or in public address. He knows men. He knew them when he was playing on the Washington and Lee team, when he was pioneering in some of the hardest Home Missionary work on the Rio Grande, and while he has been pastor of a big city church. Best of all, Glasgow has the kind of religion that makes a man want the kind of religion that Glasgow has. I hope you have a great time together.”

Mr. Tom Glasgow, of Charlotte, a brother of Sam Glasgow, who himself has won the admiration of all Davidson men, furnishes us some facts which lead us to believe that Doctor Glasgow was an especially well-rounded man while at Washington and Lee. Athletically speaking, he was fullback on the W. & L. team, second baseman on the nine, and a member of the Harry Lee Rowing Crew. Scholastically speaking, he was the winner of one of the scholarships offered there. (He later won the Hogue fellowship at Union.) Socially speaking, he was a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. Spiritually, his whole life speaks for itself. Billy Rule, a member of Doctor Glasgow's church in Knoxville, says: “In the nine years that I have known Doctor Glasgow I have come to admire him as much as any man I know. He has a wonderful personality which makes him a leader among any group of men. He is an all-round man and holds much interest in a great variety of things. He is greatly interested in young people as well as old. I feel that he comes here at the will of God; that he will lead us.”

Ex-Governor Cameron Morrison May Deliver Presentation Address

LINGLE TO ACCEPT GIFT

Program Will Be Outstanding Event on College Calendar—Alumni to Attend

Dedication exercises for the $20,000 Skinner organ in the auditorium of Chambers building will be made Friday night, November 1, at which time an appropriate program has been arranged for the formal presentation and acceptance of this gift, as well as an organ recital with Charles Vardell, Jr., dean of the school of music at Salem College, Winston-Salem, in charge of the musical feature. Ex-Governor Cameron Morrison and Mrs. Morrison, of Charlotte, the latter the donor of the organ and piano, which constitutes the musical equipment of the auditorium, will be honored guests at this dedication, and the entire exercises will be in charge of Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the college. Dean Vardell will be assisted in his recital by Mrs. Emily Cullum, contralto. Former Governor Morrison has been invited to make the presentation address on behalf of Mrs. Morrison, and President Lingle will make the official speech of acceptance for the college. Some prominent minister of North Carolina will deliver the dedicatory prayer. In the recital of Dean Vardell, the public is invited to the first lengthy program on the new organ, a brief one having been given by Eugene Craft at the opening of college. It is planned to make these exercises one of the outstanding events of the college calendar, and the date has been specifically set on the night preceding the football game between Virginia Military Institute and Davidson so that Davidson alumni, returning for the contest, will have a chance to attend. Mu Beta Psi, music fraternity, will assist Doctor Lingle and his associates with the program.

Six Men Are Selected For Church Committee

The appointment of the Church Committee comes as the result of the suggestion made by members of last year’s Senior Class, and from the session of the College Church who heartily approved of this committee and requested that it be appointed. As a representative group of the student body, the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet made the selection of these six men, who will cooperate with the church session and endeavor in every possible way to bring the students to take and feel fully its important part in the activity of the church. Those who are familiar with the university life at Yale know of the yearly custom there of electing a small group of men from the student body to act as student deacons in the college church. Readers of “Borden of Yale” remember that Borden, a marvelous Christian youth, was elected to this honored position while there. Recently a somewhat similar group of six men, known as the Student Church Committee, was appointed to represent the student body in the activities and worship of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The men who received the distinctive honor of appointment to this committee are: Seniors, Alex Warren, Bill Milton, and Ned Heefner; Juniors, Walter Fraley and Archie McLean; and one Sophomore, Nat Spier. Last weekend when the church was so crowded with visitors, the members of this committee rendered a fine service by ushering. Time will doubtless prove that the usefulness of this committee is not limited to ushering. As a group, it is asking the unified cooperation of the student body in accomplishing the plans of the future.