Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

Changes in Student Directory

The following additions and changes have been made in the student body directory:

Senior Class
Abernethy, R. S., Jr., 307 Wa.
Cannon, D. F., Jr., 26 Rum.
Creech, C. L., Jr., Mrs. Bohannan.
Currie, J. M., 404 Wa.
Davidson, H. S., “B” Ea.
Dumas, W. L., Jr., 31 Ga.
Harper, H. Y., 110 No.
Herriott, G. E., 110 We.
Hunt, H. L., old Phi Gam House.
Johnson, J. G., 24 Ga.
Littlejohn, F. N., 1 No.
McNeely, J. C., La.
Pope, J. L., 23 Ga.
Powell, W. M., 29 Ga.
Pritchett, W. K., 413 Ea.
Ratchford, F. A., “A” We.
Robinson, J. W., 21 Rum.

Junior Class
Baker, T. T., 8 Ga.
Close, E. C., 404 Wa.
Johnson, F. W., 307 Wa.
Parish, L. B., Gym.
Rice, J. C., 413 Wa.
Ritchie, C. A., La.
Smith, A. G., 13 No.
Smith, E. W., 406 Wa.
Smith, J. M., 11 Rum.
Wilson, J. A., Town.

Sophomore Class
Brock, J. L., 307 Ea.
David, W. L., 403 Wa.
Drake, B. H., 5 So.
Henderlite, J. H., 305 Wa.
Houston, R., Tie Williams.
Humphries, N. T., La.
Jackson, A. R., 307 Ea.
Jackson, K. M., 6 Rum.
Johnson, T. B., 30 Ga.
Lipe, E. W., 401 Ea.
McAlpine, W. E., Dr. Richards.
McInnis, J. R., 1 No.
McMillan, R. L., 308 Wa.
Marrow, C. K., 14 Ga.
Ratchford, W. T., 104 We.
Shepard, A. H., 305 We.
Smith, J. L., 407 Wa.
Sutliff, R. L., old Phi Gam House.
Wood, F. L. F., 9 Rum.

Freshman Class
Abernethy, J. A., 112 Ea.
Allen, B. E., 8 Ga.
Arnold, C. W., 301 Ea.
Barineau, J. W., 211 Ea.
Bradshaw, J. T., 103 Ea.
Bradshaw, W. R., 103 Ea.
Brogden, H. A., 4 No.
Brown, C. E., 111 We.
Buie, J. M., 306 Ea.
Cashion, S. W., Home.
Christenbury, W. W., “D” Ea.
Cole, C. R., 303 We.
Conway, P. M., 112 Wa.
Currie, K. M., 1 No.
Goodson, K. L., 26 Ga.
Hechenbleikner, Y., 107 W.
Hinnant, W., No.
Hollifield, H. F., 313 We.
Hutaff, J. B., 212 We.
Johnson, H. C., Home.
Johnson, R. C., 414 We.
Kennedy, F. C., 6 Rum.
Knox, F. J., Home.
McCall, R. E., 310 We.
McConnell, J. D., Home.
McDavid, M. F., 211 Ea.
McDonald, M. C., 213 Ea.
McFadyen, J. D., 301 Ea.
Mallard, S. H., 8 So.
Mathis, G., 310 Ea.
Newman, F. H., 303 Wa.
Owens, A. L., 309 We.
Pardington, G. P., 411 Ea.
Potts, W. G., Home.
Pou, R. S., 10 No.
Preston, J. A., 204 We.
Reid, B. P., 10 No.
Roddey, M. L., 409 Wa.
Rucker, W. M., Home.
Rulfs, T. J., 408 We.
Shanks, P. T., 414 We.
Spencer, C. W. F., 410 We.
Wall, J. C., 108 We.
Wilson, H. M., Club.

FRESHMEN TROUNCE NEW HANOVER TEAM
Fresh Cagemen Defeat Wilmington Team 31 to 21

The Davidson Freshmen handed the New Hanover High School team of Wilmington a 31 to 21 defeat last Saturday night
in the Alumni gymnasium. It was the second defeat for Wilmington, last year’s State Champs, in two days. Central High
of Charlotte having trounced them the night before. The Wildkittens showed a complete reversal of form from the night before
and played a very good game. The entire second team started the game and Coach Tilson held his first stringers
out until near the end of the first half. The starting line-up played a good game and held the visitors
by a leading score throughout the game. Bill Lane was high-point man of the game, getting 11 points. Five of
these points were from free throws: He sank every one of the five shots he got from the foul line.
Mathis, although he didn’t start the game, sank five goals from the floor to get 10 points. For Wilmington, Davis,
May, and Beale all played good games. Each got six points a piece. The Freshmen played a much better game
Saturday night than Friday night against Oak Ridge.

Lineups:
DAVIDSON FRESH
King (f) 1 1 3
Lane (f) 1 0 2
Montgomery (f) 0 0 0
McFadyen (c) 1 0 2
Mathis (g) 5 0 10
Milton (g) 1 0 2
Brown (f) 0 1 1
Gilbert (g) 0 0 0
Satterfield (g) 0 0 0

WILMINGTON
Davis (f) 3 0 6
May (f) 3 0 6
Napier (f) 0 0 0
Rankin (c) 1 0 2
Jones (g) 0 1 1
Beale (g) 3 0 6

Referee: Pritchett. Umpire: Calhoun.

Freshmen Wrestlers Defeated by Barium
Second Meet Lost—Wildkittens Win in One Class—Other Matches Hard Fought

The Freshmen wrestling team was defeated by the Barium Springs team on February the 9th by the one-sided score of
25-3. The Wildkittens were able to win but one match, Conway winning a time decision over Tumus. The other five
matches were hard fought but Barium won all of them. The Davidson men who showed up good were Conway in
the 165-pound class who had a time advantage of 9 minutes over Tumus, Houston in the 125-pound class who lost
by a narrow margin to Donaldson, and Ashcraft who after putting up a good fight was finally pinned to the
mat by Jackins of Barium. Woodward in the 115-pound class and Brown in the 145-pound class showed up well for
Barium. Greer of Carolina refereed while Joe McCall and Joe Johnston were timekeepers.

Oak Ridge Defeats Fresh In Slow Game
Oak Ridge Quintet Wins From Freshmen by One-Sided Score of 46 to 17

In a slow and loosely played game, the Oak Ridge basketball team beat the Davidson Freshmen 46 to 17 last
Friday night at the Alumni gymnasium. The Freshmen were off form and their play was ragged. The Oak Ridge boys,
on the other hand, played a steady game throughout and were never forced to extend themselves. Oak Ridge jumped into
the lead at the very start of the game and were never headed thereafter. They looped six points before the
Freshmen could score. The half ended with the score 17 to 8 in favor of the visitors. In the second
half Oak Ridge started an offense that brought the final score to 46, meanwhile holding the Freshmen to 17 points.
Satterfield, Oak Ridge guard, was high point man of the game, getting 22 points. He looped ten field goals during
the game. His aim at the basket was uncanny, hardly ever missing the loop. Royster, center, also played a good
game, getting six field goals to count up 12 points. For the Freshmen, Milton at center and Mathis at guard
played steady games. They were the only men on the whole team to get any field goals, Milton looping three
and Mathis two.

LINEUPS
Pos. Oak Ridge (46) Fresh (17)
Hutaff (f) Faulkner (4)
Martin (f) Allmond (5)
Milton (c) Royster (12)
Mathis (g) Satterfield (22)
Gilbert (g) Chandler

Substitutions: Freshmen; King, Lane (1). Hengeveld, referee.

ELKINS INJURED
In their match with Barium Springs February 6, the freshman wrestling team sustained the loss of Rosser Elkins, 125-pounder from
Waycross, Ga. Elkins was in his second match of the evening when his left arm was dislocated at the elbow.
It was thought at first that the bone was broken, but examination at the college infirmary showed that it was
a dislocation. The injury will keep him off of the mat for about a month.

LaFayette College—(CNC)—Lafayette College has granted scholarships to students enrolled this year of $34,865. One hundred and eighty-four students, nearly one-fifth
of the entire student enrollment, are receiving these scholarships.

Afford Not To Insure.
The unexpected usually happens. Two fires occur every minute—somewhere. What assurance have you that your property will not burn next?
“It is safer to have insurance and not need it, than to need insurance and not have it.” Let us
take care of your insurance needs, so that you have insurance protection when you need it.

Independence Trust Company
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

C. W. Harrison Talks To Volunteer Group
The Volunteer Band met last Sunday at one-thirty in the lower part of Shearer Hall. John Preston led the devotionals.
Charlie Harrison gave a most remarkable talk on “The Preacher and Missions.” In his talk he told of personal experiences
in the orient, and gave his own reaction to America’s view of modern missions. His talk followed the book which
the Volunteer Band is studying, “The Desire of All Nations.” The supreme responsibility is on the ministers. They have to
give an account of what they do, they must not lie down on the job. The supreme element of the
minister’s responsibility is his message—it is a perpetual office, and man’s deepest need. The supreme element of the minister’s message
is his conception of God; it is the all-determining factor. God is not a class or a race. The churchis
not going into the world to preach the gospel as it was commanded to. The gospel is for the needy.
Ministers must avoid the easy way. Pastors have to face the great temptation of building up their own work to
the detriment of the broader scope of their Master’s work. Ministers must extol their charges to give to missions. They
must not shrink from this duty. Missionary passion comes from knowing God. Christians must be brothers to all the souls
of the earth. Business was then taken up and it was decided to have a feed tomorrow night. Plans were
discussed for conducting a study class in the Presbyterian Church in Cornelius. The Volunteer Band has been sending deputations to
Statesville for the past three weeks to speak to the Covenanters League, a young people’s organization there. The first week
Glenn Frye and Ben Drake went, the second Sunday, Preston and McFayden, the third Sunday McFadyen and Banks, and last
Sunday McFadyen and Banks. The Band is looking forward to quite a few deputations in the future, but at present
they have all that they can conveniently handle. Under the able leadership of John Preston, the new president, the Volunteer
Band is doing a wonderful work this semester.

FRESH MATMEN LOSE TO BARIUM

Freshmen Lose to Barium Springs in First Wrestling Match

The Freshmen Grapplers of Davidson lost their first wrestling bout of the season in a match with the Barium Springs
aggregation. In the six matches staged, three were copped by Davidson men and three by Barium Springs. Of the three
bouts won by Davidson, McKinney’s and Conway’s were falls while White won his bout on a time decision. The Fresh
showed good form in all their bouts and pushed the Barium Springs men hard to win with the tight score
of 15 to 13. The 115-pound class was intensively interesting to the onlookers in that Woodward of Barium persisted in
securing numerous holds on Grady while Grady always managed to break loose although he was finally thrown after six minutes
of fierce struggling. McKinney and Conway both showed good form and plenty of fight. Conway won by a fall in
five and a half minutes and McKinney threw his man in about the same time. White also came through with
a time decision over Lee in one minute and eighteen seconds. Elkins and Ashcraft lost by falls to Donaldson and
Jackson respectively. In two exhibition matches immediately after the main bouts, Houston defeated Shaeffur on a time decision and Elkins
lost to Cumbie, receiving in this match a dislocation of his arm. The prospects of the Fresh team as a
whole look good and predictions are that they will have a good season. They have been working out with the
Varsity and there ought to be several good matmen for next year’s team. The following was the lineup of the
match on February 6:

Barium Springs—Weight—Time—Points
Woodward 115 6:00 5
Donaldson 125 2:20 5
Lee 135 1:18 0
Jackson 145 5:33 0
Tumus 165 5:30 0

Davidson—Weight—Time—Points
Grady 0—Fall
Elkins 0—Fall
White 3—Time
McKinney 5—Fall
Ashcraft 0—Fall
Conway 5—Fall

EXHIBITION MATCHES
Shaeffur 125 6:00 0
Cumbie 125 4:00 5

Barium Springs: Davidson:
Houston 3—Time
Elkins 0—Fall

Lubbock—(CNA)—Twenty thousand dollars has been left to be used as a student loan fund in Texas Technological College, by the
will of the late George T. Morrow, Lubbock pioneer, who recently died at the age of 73. The loan is
to be administered by the president of the College, the business manager, and the registrar. There are no other provisions
in the will as to how the fund shall be administered. Mr. Morrow becomes, according to President Paul W. Horn,
the first benefactor to remember the college in his will.

Haverford—(CNA)—A dream of fifteen years’ standing will be fulfilled next month with the completion on the Campus of the Samuel
Hilles Memorial Laboratory of Applied Science, and the housing in it of the Engineering department of the College. The new
building will be a last testimonial to the splendid backing and loyal co-operation of the Haverford alumni.

Make This Store Your Headquarters
Note Books
Fountain Pens
Felt Goods
Stationery
New Records Every Week
SUPERIOR SERVICE
W. S. HENDERSON
Davidson, N. C.
February 14, 1929

Cornell University—(CNA)—One of the most significant milestones in the history of Cornell College was passed recently when the joyous ringing
of the Chapel bell announced that a large field of faithful workers had been victorious in their untiring campaign to
raise $1,600,000 for Cornell College. The campaign headquarters at Waterloo stated that a total of $1,600,037 had been subscribed to
the fund. The raising of this fund means that the gift of $500,000 offered to Cornell by the Rockefeller Board
of the Rockefeller Foundation would be validated and that this sum would be turned over to the local college authorities.

Purdue University (CNA)—The state library and state historical bureau of Indiana will occupy a fine building in the future if
the present state legislature makes the necessary appropriation of $1,000,000 to erect it. W. P. Dearing, chairman of the Indiana
library and historical bureau, who recently announced the proposed building, stated that the bureau will ask the legislature to authorize
a special revenue to meet the sum. He believes that a tax levy of one cent for two years would
be sufficient.

Yale University (CNC)—College professors are largely to blame for their own low salaries, according to a report by a committee
of Yale professors made public recently. An excess of teachers is blamed. “The proportion of teachers to students in American
universities is far higher than in the universities of Europe,” the report said. “Unless radical alteration of the American university
policy is put into effect, a progressive deterioration in the quality of university teaching and scholarship is indicated as inevitable.”

(CNC)—The influx of college men to the ranks of professional baseball teams has gone far toward the elevation of the
national pastime, but colleges and amateur athletic leaders have gone to an even greater degree in taking baseball out of
the hands of poolroom gamblers. General Palmer E. Pierce, for twenty years president of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, declared
in New Orleans recently. “Today the professional gambler has less hold on the players. The pitchers and the catcher on
the amateur team are really amateurs, and there are more and better amateur players being developed. The American Legion boy's
baseball series, to which the co-operation of the National Collegiate Athletic Association was given, is helping the boys and baseball.
College sports are cleaner than they have been, and because of the influence held by college conferences and associations, other
athletics are in better condition.” Clean play and clean business, General Pierce believes, have a direct relationship.

Kent State College—(CNC)—Dr. J. O. Engleman, president of Kent State Normal College, announced recently the resignation of the business manager,
J. B. Gillespie, Jr., who has occupied that position in the college for nearly three years. This action grows out
of a recommendation of Dr. B. R. Buckingham, formerly of Ohio State University, who conducted a survey of Kent State
Normal College immediately prior to the beginning of Dr. Engleman’s administration. One of his recommendations was that the office of
business manager at Kent State College be abolished.

Yale University—(CNC)—The staff of Yale University—from president down to the humblest janitor—is insured under a group insurance plan involving $5,000,000.
The first month’s premium was paid in full by the university, an announcement said recently, but after January 19, part
of the premium must be paid by the individual or the policy will become void. The university will continue to
pay “a substantial portion” of the premium, the announcement said. It is believed to be the largest group insurance of
its type negotiated in the state.

My, you need a haircut. Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real College haircut. He has three real barbers.

NORTON BROS.
in Post Office block—
Three first-class workmen

The Students’ Store will have in within a few days a complete new line of shoes. Also new line of
cakes, etc.

KEEP YOUR MONEY ON THE HILL
IT’S YOURS, WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?

Davidson Theatre
Monday, February 18th
“Loves of Casanova” with “ALL STAR CAST”

Tuesday, February 19th
“The Sin Sister” with NANCY CARROLL

Wednesday, February 20th
“His Captive Women” with MILTON SILLS and DOROTHY MACKAILL

Thursday, February 21st
“Love in the Desert” with NOAH BERRY and OLIVE BORDEN

Friday, February 22nd
“Office Scandal” with PHYLIS HAVER

Saturday, February 23rd
“Strong Boy” with VICTOR McLAGLIN
