THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 10, 1929

Davidson

SIDE LINE SHOTS

At the Wildcats Invasion of Army’s Lair

By P. R. Alderman

Day after tomorrow will find a Wildcat team far away from home and battling one of the biggest foes of her gridiron history—the Army. It will be much the same old story—a small and comparatively weak eleven on foreign territory with practically every odd against them. There is no doubt that the Army has a much heavier and more experienced team, more reserve power and more everything, except determination, than do the Wildcats. The fight and spirit alone of a team, however, as has been proved time after time, cannot bring victory in every case. These qualities can win the respect and admiration of the spectators, it is true, but it takes at least some ability and real football coupled with them to put that touchdown over.

Now there’s no need to try to convince anybody that the Wildcats have plenty of fight and grit, because that’s an established fact and widely accepted as such. But it is the writer's opinion that the bare football knowledge and ability of the '29 Red and Black grid machine have been somewhat underrated, on as well as off the campus. If the Cats win a game unexpectedly or put up a surprisingly good fight against a much stronger foe, you can hear that well-known phrase “the Wildcat fight” almost everywhere you turn. This is well and good and no true Davidson man should wish it otherwise, for the tradition and thought embodied in that one phrase mean more to us than any other one thing that could be said about Davidson men, wherever they are or whatever they might be doing.

But, in praising our gridders for their unfailing exhibition of this spirit, we are inclined to forget that they are real football players and have learned their “football” from two of the best coaches to be found anywhere—Monk and Tex! Anyone who saw the Davidson-Clemson clash in Charlotte will have to admit two things, at least, about the performance of the Wildcats that day: they fought like a wild beast cornered and they played football, for the most part, like it ought to be played. Could fight alone or even united with a poorly-working football machine account for the fact that Davidson has scored on every opponent so far this season and won two out of the three games played? Hardly—it took that old never-say-die spirit to make the eleven play football the way they had been taught to.

Perhaps the spirit of the team is due more credit than their ability on the field, and may it never be dethroned from the position it now occupies in the hearts of Davidson men everywhere, but let’s also back our team and coaches for their co-operation and hard work as they have labored day after day to put out an eleven that can really play football! So let’s look at it like this: Monk and Tex are leaving for West Point with a group of Wildcats that are going to show Uncle Sam’s Cadets more fight than they imagined eleven men could have and the soldiers are also going to run up against a little morefootball strategy that will prove beneficial to them. Furthermore, the Army is going to have to fire its biggest guns to prevent a comparatively obscure grid team from handing a big upset to the realm of sports in general! “I don’t like the hang of things,” remarked the prisoner on the scaffold. 

Henry Ford: “Every dollar I have was made honestly.” 
Candid Friend: “By whom?”

VICTORY AVENGES LOSS TO TERRIERS LAST YEAR
Don King Scores Only Touchdown of Game

The Davidson Wildcats won a seven to nothing verdict over the Wofford Terriers at Spartanburg last Saturday. The 'Cats found an unexpected resistance in the Terriers, and it was not until the last quarter that they were able to push over their lone counter. The victory atoned in some measure for the defeat the Terriers handed Davidson last year.

Well into the fourth quarter the two teams battled without either being able to gain consistently on the other. It looked as if the game would end in a scoreless tie, until a combination of breaks enabled the 'Cats to gain possession of the ball in Wofford territory. A Terrier pass was intercepted by Bill Mason, 'Cat center, which placed the ball on Wofford’s thirty-yard line. Davidson opened up an offensive that carried the ball to the seven-yard line. An off-side penalty placed the ball on the two-yard line, from where Fraley and King carried the ball over, the latter actually taking the ball across the last white marker. Brock unerringly place-kicked the extra point.

Early in the first quarter, too, the 'Cats came very near scoring. They took the ball in the middle of the field and marched down to the one-yard line. Here a fumble by McCall lost eight yards and a pass failed on the last down, the ball going over to Wofford on their own ten-yard line. A final Davidson scoring threat was cut short by the closing whistle, the ball being on the fifteen-yard line as the game closed. Wofford never seriously threatened to score throughout the whole game. All their offensive efforts were pretty well smothered by the 'Cat forward wall, and (Continued on page 6)

Stalwart Linesman
Ledyard DeCamp, Wildcat Guard, whose defensive work against Wofford last Saturday proved one of the main factors in Davidson's victory.

John F. Preston
BRASSWARE
Imported Direct from Korea
MAKE IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFTS
Samples will be shown to Town Residents
Always on Display in 109 East

Ledyard DeCamp

...in a cigarette it’s “STICKIN’ to our knittin’”—never forgetting that Chesterfield’s popularity depends on the ring of Chesterfield’s taste... But what is taste? Aroma, for one thing—keen and spicy fragrance. For another, that satisfying something—flavor, mellow tobacco goodness—which we can only call “character.” Taste is what smokers want; taste is what Chesterfield offers—“TASTE above everything.”

© 1929, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

MILD... and yet THEY SATISFY
Chesterfield
FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED