Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
ALA BROWN

Business Manager
W. M. POWELL

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Circulation Mgr.
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President
Secretary

Thursday, February 14, 1929

Freddie Frosh says a fast night maketh a slow day.

Congratulations to Carolina and The Daily Tar Heel.

Most professors think they are entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of a golf ball.

Where's the woman who, having had the last word, isn’t just dying to know what you are thinking about?

Just now it’s perfectly in order to keep on praising and backing that Wildcat bunch more than ever.

And the chance to win a five spot will be gone after midnight tonight when the Delta Pi Kappa writing contest closes.

These seniors ought to back up the Faculty now and do everything they can to put this big weekend show over as the feature entertainment of the year.

Watching you 29. FI-YO! FI-YO!

Resolutions recently passed unanimously by the Senior Class in which the common practice of whistling, shouting, and cries of “Fire,” “Fi-yo” and whatnot directed toward visitors, and especially young lady visitors, to the campus were classed as being improper and altogether unnecessary.

This custom of making unseemly noises when a boy escorts his Girl Friend to a basketball game or into the dining hall or anywhere on the campus is embarrassing to both, as well as being extremely discourteous to the visitor. Not only has this barbaric manner been in evidence regarding girls but lately there has been some tendency to hiss and boo at players at basketball games—altogether new and out of line with the conduct of Davidsonians of days past. Surely this must be from a very few unthoughtful ones and not representative of the spirit of the mass.

The seniors have pledged to a man to discontinue any such ungentlemanly conduct, if any had practiced it before, and to use their influence to control and eliminate the tendency in the student body. Where are the other classes standing on the proposition? Let’s throw this prep-schoolish practice out because that’s not the Davidson spirit, men.

THIS GENERATION

Many are the attacks made on college students, and just as numerous are the regrets that undergraduate life is not of the high standard of former days. There are those who fear lest the educational institutions of this day be so influenced in quite the incorrect way that all will not be well for those who follow.

President Wilbur of Stanford University has this to say: “The fact that a higher percentage of students is succeeding in the University than ever before means that our student body is more stable. The floater, the idler, the drifter, the bounder, and the boozer, are running a shorter course each year. Ninety percent of our students are attending to their business and succeeding with their work. A certain proportion of the time of these is needed to keep the five or ten percent from making a nuisance of themselves and to keep them from hurting the good name of the University.

“Personally, I have fullest confidence in our present group of students. They are going ahead, chasing some false gods, no doubt, but on the whole, looking each situation in the face, analyzing its strength and its weakness, and making the necessary decisions as to what they shall do or not do. The great majority of them are acquiring those steady habits of work which form the basis of success and satisfaction in life. The world forgives a great deal in the man who is a worker and who contributes to the general welfare. The University overlooks much when its work is well done and when there is evidence that the student is advancing and growing.”

Learning to live. Advancing and growing. Acquiring steady habits of work. Thus does President Wilbur indicate the true education as he sees it—not only in learning but in the practical use of what one learns is there gained success according to present standards.

THE BUILDING PROGRAM

As the dome of Chambers Building nears completion our thoughts turn to the progress which the physical plant of Davidson College has made in the past few years. The students who are now in college have been here during a period of development which surpasses any which the college has experienced in many years. Of the classes which will see more development the junior and senior stand highest with the junior class probably witnessing more material additions to the college than any other. It is the only class which will have observed the completion of the stadium, the addition of the new tennis courts, the building of Fraternity Court, Chambers fully functioning, and the changes which will probably be made by the coming meeting of the Board of Trustees in the uses of Shearer Hall, the Armory, the “Y” Halls and the Temporary. The alterations which the Board will make in the functions of these buildings is anticipated with interest.

One is almost tempted to look forward to the completion of a building program,—a time when the college authorities can turn their attention more fully to other lines of development. But on second consideration such a time does not prove to be imminent. There are more things to do. There is a dormitory to be built to take the place of Rumple, North, and South; there is a new church to be built; there is a vision of a swimming pool and a “tin can.”

Where progress reigns, completion can never exist.
—F.D.M.

STOP THE CHAMELEON?

Should publication of the “Chameleon” be discontinued at the close of this scholastic year? This question—brought to a head by the brilliantly devastating arraignment of it by the mysterious reviewer of the last issue—is being pondered by more than a few students at present. After this first question resolves itself into two: can the Magazine be run on a satisfactory basis? And, is the “Chameleon” worth publishing?

Current Comment
By John Brown

Hotchpot
By Kendrick Pritchett

WANTON WILES
By Dave Anderson

Einstein, the great German scientist, has now elaborated a theory identifying gravitation with electrodynamic magnetism. In Minneapolis it is said that this theory is something like love. No one else can understand it.

At last a use for old razor blades has been discovered. N. A. Zeigler of Pittsburgh has devised a method of getting gas from steel and iron by the use of a high-frequency induction vacuum furnace. The gas thus derived may be used for gas stoves and possibly for automobiles. If such a process should be put into operation successfully, old razor blades in the future will be hoarded to furnish gas for trips to Charlotte and elsewhere.

A week ago last Sunday was the fifth anniversary of the death of Woodrow Wilson. One single wreath of jonquils was received in memory of the great man. However, such neglect of the occasion is not quite so bad as it seems when we consider that few men are remembered for their death, but rather for their birth, as illustrated clearly by December 25 and February 22.

The famed White House electric horse of the Coolidge regime was last week crated for shipment to Northampton. The President-elect seems to prefer steamship fishing excursions to indoor horsemanship.

There were in India last year about 5,000 deaths from poisonous snake bites as compared with 27 in the United States. This large number of unnecessary deaths could be cut down considerably by educating the people to steps to take after being bitten. The principal things to do are first to apply a tourniquet, then identify the kind of snake that caused the inconvenience and obtain a serum for it as quickly as possible. If properly cared for, cure may be effected if the serum is injected within twenty-four hours.

The Communist party, which is now the official party of Soviet Russia, recently arrested 150 followers of the now exiled Leon Trotsky on the ground that they were preparing to make war on the government. Russia seems to be one of the several countries which are now undergoing major revolutions. But when they finally get settled the Russians will probably soon show themselves to be a world power of no small importance.

Among the bills passed by Congress one provides for the appropriation of (Continued on page 4)

Personally we think that it both can, and is. With the Charlotte merchants agreeing as a body to advertise in no school publications other than yearbooks, coupled to the honor of being part host to the State Press Association, the present staff has undoubtedly had the hardest financial year in the existence of the magazine. And yet the business manager hopes—after publishing the third and last issue—to end the year completely out of debt.

To answer the second question we must generalize a bit. College's only excuse for existence is Learning. And only the few learn before many trials. Every student body always contains some few who like the idea of writing, either vaguely or definitely. And the college magazine is the sole outlet to such an impulse; or impulse to such a liking. But, the fatal question comes, do students ever read the Magazine—even when alone? And this of course can never be answered definitely. Having made a few inquiries here and there, we believe that enough of the body reads it to warrant the continuance of the “Chameleon.” It may influence your opinion to recall how many times you have heard it said that the last review of the magazine was too harsh.

If the Magazine is to be continued, certainly it must remain in its present form rather than become a supplementary edition of The Davidsonian. Conditions probably warranted such a change at the University of North Carolina; but it would not be feasible at Davidson, for almost obvious reasons.
—C.M.P.The time has come, in the opinion of President Lowell of Harvard, when the whole question of prohibition should be reopened. He thinks that the established facts, as known to moderate and sensible men, call for a change of public policy without prohibition. President Lowell does not condone defiant and flaunting violations of the law. But, in the February Atlantic, he writes words of truth and soberness when he declares that “if the prohibitionists insist that their principle unabated shall remain the formal law, they will probably make enforcement impossible, hamper the growth of temperance, and perpetuate violation of the law and of good order. This last is the most serious aspect of the matter.”

Man must face the fact that, while the human species stands at the top of life by virtue only of its intelligence, the insects stand at the top of a divergent race far older, far better fitted for existence, and endowed with what is called instinct of the highest degree. For instance, a single cabbage aphis, an insect weighing little more than a milligram, might have in a year so many descendants that the ponderous mass of the whole would weigh more than 1,644,000,000,000 pounds. Estimating the human population of the world at 2,000,000,000 and the average weight at the exaggerated figure of 150 pounds, we have as the total of human weight 300,000,000,000 pounds. In other words, the plant-lice descended from one individual of one species in one season would weigh more than five times as much as all the people of the world. It is obvious that the intelligent type will dominate eventually, but it is also obvious that it will dominate only through its intelligence.

A leading journal has collected unconscious wit from college examination papers. Several specimens deserve to be reprinted. “Sir W. Scott was called the Blizzard of the North. He tried to reach the North Pole, but died in the attempt.” A keen interest in politics is shown by the statement that “Congress assembled in November and dissembled in December.” Asked to explain the use of the imperfect tense in French, one wrote that it is employed “to express a future action in past time which does not take place at all.” Asked to turn into English, “Notre voisin est mort d'une congestion pulmonaire,” he neatly rendered it, “Our neighbor died of a crush in a Pullman car.” And another one was, “What do you understand by the Theory of Exchange? The Theory of Exchange, as I understand it, is not very well understood.”

Soph: “You want to keep your eyes open around here today.”
Frosh: “Why?”
Soph: “Because people would think you are crazy if you went around with them shut.”

THE BULL PEN

Of course, you didn’t read the editorials last week—it’s against the rules. But one of ’em struck up an idea in our empty head. The editor opposed the team. Why not extend it? The golf team, for instance: “nervous system.” But that is neither here nor there. It works—that’s the main idea. So “Hey, look out there—you’re gonna top that one!” “Look out there—there’s a pebble on the green!” Or in Ping-pong: “Look out there, you big soft baby—who told you you were man enough for this game, anyhow?” The “nervous system” and baseball—why not extend it? It is a legal, recognized thing in football, basketball.

NEWS EVENTS

Davidson, N. C. (B. P.): A salesman arriving at Davidson via bus from Winston-Salem hit this marvelous city for the first time. Stepping off the bus with three suitcases of samples, personal effects, etc., he inquired as to which was the best hotel in town—and then sought a bell-boy to carry his grips. That is the truth, for a change. If you ask us, we would say the gentleman was lucky if he found the hotel at all—lucky if he found the proprietor, much less a bell-boy or other accessories. Picture a bell-boy’s duties at a Davidson Hotel: If you can imagine a minus quantity, you have the right answer.

1. The bell-boy would meet all (meaning both) of the trains. “How do you do,” “Have good roads this trip?” sez the bell-boy of the train. Train: “Fair—but those detours through South Carolina!”

2. The bell-boy would light up the lamps, clean the chimneys of the lamps and trim the wicks; draw the water for the guest (singular number); and also see that the bed is made up once a week.

STARTS OF FAMOUS AUTOBIOGRAPHIES

(From the life of a College Freshman)
“In my family, there are three of us, my father, mother, and myself. I am the youngest—”

PUZZLES

(Pick out the college-bred man and the self-made man in 15 minutes, a day from the following):
Overheard in transit: “But sir, you have begged the question clear conception of Freud’s theory of the unconscious.” And the other man overheard: “Say, kid, that was some gig that guy had—quite the oats and all, huh?”
Answer: No. 2 was the educated man.

AMONG THIS WEEK’S WASTE BASKET SUPPLIES

Did you hear the one about the Scotchman who offered $100,000 to anyone swimming the English Channel—underwater? Well, that’s it!

Another one:
“Next!”
“Who, me?”
“Born?”
“Yes sir.”
“Where?”
“Russia.”
“What part?”
“All of me.”
“Why did you leave Russia?”
“I couldn’t bring it with me.”
“Where were your forefathers born?”
“I only got one father.”
“Your business?”
“Rotten!”
“Where’s Washington?”
“He’s dead.”
“I mean, the capital of the U. S.”
“Oh, they loaned it all to Europe.”
“Do you promise to support the Constitution?”
“How can I? I’ve got a wife and six children to support.”
—The Open Road.

OPEN FORUM

READY TO BATTLE

To the Editor:
What hot Boxers, and other pugilistic expressions! The Senior Class is rough-ready and rearing to go. Five of the “hard boys” who will fight for the honor of ’29 have had extensive, and in each case successful, experience in the amateur ring. Their identity will not be disclosed until the evening of the big fight. They are all fast, merciless, dark horses and we marvel at the temerity evidenced by the other classes in their willingness to engage in fistic combat with the boys of ’29. But this is no extraordinary situation. Should it not be so? Have not the boys of '29 toiled through four long years of college whatnot? Yea, even so. They are without a doubt matured to a surpassing extent physically, mentally, and morally, over the underclassmen. Therefore, Beware! There shall be great weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth by the boys of '30, ’31, and ’32.
—O.F.

Editor’s Note: This letter comes in answer to an editorial published last week in which the practice of shouting at opposing players in the act of shooting goals was questioned as to its fairness to the opposition, its good sportsmanship, and its general practice. There was no intention of holding up either the team or the coaches to criticism but merely to receive a reply such as the following one which might clarify the spirit of the practice for our speakers at recent games.

A VINDICATION

To the Editor:
Justice to our coaches and basketball teams demands that an editorial printed on this page last week be challenged as unfair and incorrect. In this article which appeared under the caption “Queer Tactics,” the writer expressed regret that our basketball teams have adopted “the seemingly unsportsmanlike tactics” of shouting at opposing players when they are attempting to ring goals from the field. This practice was decried as unfair to the opposition and as out of accord with the Davidson code. Though made with the best intent and in a fine spirit of loyalty to those high principles of sportsmanship of which Davidson is so justly proud, this criticism exhibits a considerable misunderstanding of basketball tactics and methods of coaching. It is my purpose in this article to attempt to correct such mistaken ideas and to remove from the mind of the writer of the editorial and any others who may be laboring under the same misapprehensions all doubts concerning the sportsmanship of the tactics employed by our basketball teams.

No one thinks of suggesting that it is unfair to the opposition for a player to slap the ball from the hands of a man who is in the act of shooting at the basket; undoubtedly this is very disconcerting and inconvenient for the player attempting to score the two points, but it is accepted by all as fair, as sportsmanlike, as a natural and sane method of defense. Though to the minds of those unfamiliar with the game of basketball there may seem to be something different in shouting at a player about to take a shot at the basket, there is in fact no real difference between the shout and the slap of the hand. The shout is as real and as fair a method of defense as is the hand; it is a mental difficulty to be played against by the opposition just as truly as the man between the offensive player and the basket is a physical difficulty to be evaded, and both are equally legitimate as a means of defense.

The questioning editorial stated that in using the shout, our teams had adopted tactics which other teams have failed to adopt. A long list could be given of the names of outstanding coaches in this country who teach their teams to use the throat as well as the arms and hands in breaking up shots. It will be sufficient, however, to mention Coach Tebell of N. C. State, Coach Ruby of Illinois, Coach Meanwell of Wisconsin, and Dr. Allen of the University of Kansas as a few of those who not only sanction but also use a good, lusty yell as an important defensive device. On pages 137-138 of “My Basketball Bible” Coach Forrest C. Allen of the University of Kansas, in describing how a guard should approach a threatening player, says, “A guard while advancing should use his head, mouth, and feet to good advantage. He should talk his opponents out of all thrusts on tries at the basket that he possibly can. A shout combined with a smart slap of the foot on the floor and a feint to leap into the air will act as a deterrent to many players on the offensive.” Is more authority needed to convince even the most skeptical that the tactics taught our basketball teams by our coaches are as fair, as sportsmanlike, as truly in accord with the Davidson code as those employed by them in all other branches of sport? Is it not rather the custom of whistling and calling on the part of the spectators a deplorable practice that has been on the increase this year—the thing which we should guard against as unworthy of representatives of Davidson?
Monroe T. Gilmour.