THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 26, 1929

Vick, G. W., J. P. Williams. Vickery, L. M., 313 East. Wade, Billy, 308 East. Wagner, J. M., 16 Georgia. Ward, A. C., 405 Watts. Ward, W. B., 112 East. Ward, J. A., 201 East. Warren, Alex., 108 Watts. Warren, T. F., 29 Rumple. Washam, J. N., Home. Watson, Ansley, 206 Watts. Watson, F. A., Jr., 206 East. Watts, G. K., 13 North. Watt, James, 206 Watts. Welch, J. T., Jr., 108 West. West, F. H., 211 Watts. West, J. R., 9 North. West, P. E., 6 South. Wharton, W., 3 Watts. White, H. W., 314 West. White, S. A., 1 Georgia. Whitfield, R. A., 310 West. Whitfield, Richard A., 1 Rumple. Whitehead, A. H., 202 West. Whitted, J. W., 403 West. Whitley, J. C., Burwell’s. Whittle, A. H., 307 West. Wildman, C. M., 12 North. Wiley, S. S., 104 Watts. Wilkinson, E. B., La. Williams, G. W., Babannon's. Williams, Waddell, Miss J. Johnston. Wilson, F. L., 305 Watts. Wilson, J. A., 413 West. Wilson, R. G., 107 Watts. Wilson, H. M., 308 East. Wilson, J. Allen, 7 Georgia. Wiseman, E. M., 412 Watts. Whit, R. E., 402 West. Wood, Ferguson, 7 Rumple. Yow, D. E., 3 East.

At the opening Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service of the year, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, newly-elected president of Davidson, spoke to a large number of students. Dr. Lingle selected as a basis for his talk the words of the apostle Peter in the last verse of his second epistle: “But grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. To Him be glory both now and forever.” Some of the interesting points which the speaker brought out follow:

The problem of himself is man’s biggest problem today. What you are counts more than what you do. God wants us to be Christ-like in our lives. And this is God’s idea for us. Christ possessed not only a commanding presence but a commanding personality. He revealed a wonderful blending of grace, authority, and richness, and, by knowing this, we ought to be influenced enough to follow in His footsteps. We become like Christ by growing in grace and in the knowledge of Him. We build up our minds in the classroom, and strong minds should be built up of Christ-like souls. There is a development of a lifetime in becoming Christ-like. When God grows an oak tree, it takes Him a century to do it. When we look at it from a spiritual side, we see that the soul grows on forever. We have to feed our souls on food and feed them with the kind of food that souls grow on. If we want our souls to grow, we must feed them on the Word of God. It is impossible to become Christ-like until we know all about Him; and as we live with Christ we become like Him. Let us learn to walk with Him and talk with Him. Our growth depends largely upon the kind of atmosphere in which we live. A child needs exercise and the Lord sees that it gets the right kind of exercise. As we grow older we exercise our bodies. Our souls need exercise.

In concluding his talk, Dr. Lingle placed emphasis on these thoughts: We should influence others by the use that we make of our own work. Are we putting these things that we learn into practice? Are we becoming Christ-like? We should feed our souls on the milk of the world. The greatest thing about a man is his soul. God wants us to make our lives Christ-like. Peter’s last message to the Church was given in the words: “Grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.”

Flourishing Industries

Teacher: “What is Boston noted for?”
Johnny: “Boots and shoes.”
Teacher: “Correct. And Chicago?”
Johnny: “Shoots and booze.”

Stories about movie stars getting married should end with commas.

1929—Benjamin Owen Geer to Miss Louisa Chisolm Farrow, both of Charleston, S. C., to be solemnized October 8.

During the past weekend, the first fraternity house parties of the year took place. Quite a few visiting young ladies were present, as well as a number of alumni members of the different fraternities. Following are the names of guests of each social fraternity:

Pi Kappa Alpha—Misses Alice Caldwell, High Point; Robin Fraley, Statesville; Scottie Johnson, Charlotte; “Mat” Fraley, Statesville; Polly Webb, Statesville; Margaret Montgomery, Charlotte; Charlie Harrison, Greensboro; Nat Hunt, Lexington.

Beta Theta Pi—Misses Virginia Sevier, Hendersonville; Edna Harris, Rock Hill, S. C.; Brantley Nichols, Charlotte; Penelope Cannon, Concord; Ann Hoover, Concord; Dolly Madison, Charlotte.

Pyramid Club—Misses Elizabeth Kirly, Dorothy Cannon, Converse; Elizabeth Anderson, Statesville; Kate Caldwell, Charlotte; Messrs. Ben McAuley, Charlotte; Bill Strong, Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Misses Frances Weeks, Converse; Margaret Blue, Fayetteville; “Dit” Quarles, Charlotte; “Shorty” Reid, Concord; Caroline Highsmith, Gastonia; Edna McCoy, Charlotte; Mary Louise Wadsworth, Charlotte; Caroline Blanton, Charlotte; Vera Webb Oates, Charlotte. Messrs. Robert Covington, Gastonia; Martin Crawford, Charlotte; W. B. Bradford, Charlotte; Jim McAlister, Greensboro; Rod Raeford; Sam Smith, Charlotte; Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Ragin, Wilmington.

Phi Gamma Delta—Misses Mary Cannon, Concord; Lucy Follin, Winston-Salem; Jean Wolfe, Charlotte; Mary Patterson, Charlotte; Mary Draughan, Hickory; Margaret Gorrell, Winston-Salem; Susan Hill, Winston-Salem; Olive Spencer, Charlotte; Rosalie Wiley, Salisbury; Clara Hanes, Winston-Salem; and Mr. and Mrs. L. B. Huie, Charlotte. Messrs. Jim Moore, Salisbury; John Foster, Winston-Salem; Chas. Creech, Winston-Salem.

Pi Kappa Phi—Misses Jo Wharton, Charlotte; Juanita Sorey, Charlotte; Tootsie McNair, Hartsville, S. C.; Louise Moroney, Statesville; Alice Carr, Mooresville; Scottie Johnson, Charlotte; Catherine Carr, Mooresville; Helen Auld, Charlotte. Messrs. J. K. Hall, Belmont, and M. A. Johnston, Charlotte.

Kappa Sigma—Misses Louise Galloway, Winston-Salem; Nancy O'Hanlon, Winston-Salem; Virginia Jones, Charlotte; Julia Marsh, High Point; Eva Hackney, Washington; Caroline Moffett, Davidson; Margaret Smith, Charlotte; and Mrs. Knox Johnstone, Mocksville. Messrs. Jim Gray, Charlotte; Ben DeArmon, Charlotte; “Doc” DeArmon, Statesville; Hugh Kneisler, Kings Mountain; Bobby Glenn, Gastonia; Ham Hargrove, Lexington; Bob Overman, High Point; John Davis, Winston-Salem; Knox Johnstone, Mocksville.

Phi Delta Theta—Misses Olive Singleton, Shelby; Mary Jane Wharton, Greensboro; Douglass Rankin, Charlotte; Eleanor Kincaid, Mrs. C. H. Goodykoontz, Charlotte; and Messrs. Bill Story, Ashboro; Charlie Lanier, Charlotte.

Theta Upsilon Omega—Misses Virginia Dean, Ellen Hawkins, Evelyn Josephs, Julia Josephs, Beatrice Josephs, Dorothy Hand, Dorothy Edmonson, Erma Edmonson, Mary and Jean Craig; all of Charlotte. Messrs. Robert Henry Ratchford, Gastonia; Jim Foil, Salisbury; Charlie Anderson, St. Petersburg, Fla.; Jack Hand, Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha—Misses Susan Moffett, Davidson; Jean Marian, Sarah Spratt, Evelyn Wagner, Mary McNinch, Connie Burwell, Martha Dulin; all of Queens College, Charlotte; Anna Johnston, Barium Springs; Nida de Pass and Martha Morrison of Rock Hill; Virginia Bracey and Mildred Beasley of Charlotte; Daisy Ritz, Salem College; Helen Scott, Agnes Scott College; Frances Morton, Washington Seminary.

Alpha Omega—Misses Caroline White, Mebane; Caroline Jervey, Greensboro; Jean McFaden, Salem College, Tenn.; Mary Norris, Durham; Lucy Currie, Davidson.

We know a Scotch croquet player who has nine bow-legged children. He uses them for wickets—Brackety Ack.

“Why did you keep looking at that girl’s evening dress?”
“I wanted to see what it was all about.”—Ex.

A few years ago we purchased the Book of Knowledge and since then our daughter has led her class—Testimonial in a Sunday paper. Where to? —New Yorker.

“Does that car of Charlie’s rattle?”
“Does it rattle? Why it sounds like a skeleton having a bad chill on a tin roof.”Fraser Hood, on September 11, laid down four fundamental requisites of study to the freshman class. Dr. Hood was one of several Davidson people appearing on the two-day orientation program. “You must learn to apply the information you obtain about a subject,” he said in beginning his address. “Second, you must link the new information to old bodies of knowledge already in your possession. Third, you must seek to make the inclination personal by making this knowledge of real concern to yourself, and finally, you must use that knowledge, think, talk and write about it constantly.”

F. L. Jackson, treasurer, called to the attention of the freshmen the improvements that had been made on the campus, and urged them to consider this property as a trust for which they were responsible. He had praise for the changed attitude of the students toward the care of property, and urged the incoming freshmen to continue this practice in an even more favorable degree.

Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean, spoke for a few minutes on “College Regulations,” confining his talk to an explanation of the rules and regulations of the college, and pointing out the rigid manner of enforcement. “The Making of Character” was the subject of Dr. H. M. Moffet's address. “The most important thing any of you will do at college will not be done in the classroom, on the athletic field, or in the varied phases of social life,” he said, “but it will be done in all these things, and many others. In the choices made, the decisions reached, the attitudes taken, the values chosen, and the things you emphasize, you will be making character.”

One night, around the middle of August, the people of Davidson were aroused about 11:15 o’clock by the northbound Atlanta to Richmond air mail plane. The pilot had sighted a fire on the edge of the town, and turned slightly off his course to swoop down over the burning building, circling it once and then sailing into the north. This time there were no occupants in the structure, for it was a barn on the place of Mrs. Alice Potts Long. Hardly anyone was aware of the fire, however, until they heard the plane, which made sounds similar to a falling plane by its sudden drop. In a few minutes a stream of cars was going out South Street, and had it been a windy night they would have been of service in saving adjoining buildings. As it was, the fire was confined to one structure, which was practically destroyed when the plane passed over. Those people who rushed out when they heard the plane coming down low witnessed a beautiful spectacle, for when the pilot was close to the burning building, he switched on his wing landing lights and kept them on until he had circled the fire and started north.

Policeman: “Hey, where are you going with nine buckets of water?”
“Hush, I’m going to drown a cat.” —Buccaneer.

She: “I wouldn’t wire home for money. Why don’t you write?”
Other She: “You can’t send a letter collect.” —Lafayette Lyre.

Lady (in florist shop): “I’d like to see some buttercups, please.”
Clerk: “Awfully sorry, madam, but we don’t have any chinaware in stock.” —Okla. Whirlwind.

Love is blind but the neighbors are not. —Satyr.

“Which is correct—Bob or Robert?”
“I would say Robert is.”
“Then would you say—There goes a Robert-tailed dog?” —Sundial.

“Let’s go, team!” yelled the farmer. —Royal Gaboon.

There is a story current that an African lion recently swallowed a motorcycle. The engine was still running, and the poor beast shook to death in fifteen minutes.

It was a dark night and a traveler was lost. Presently he saw a sign on a post by the side of the road. He walked over to it, and struck a match to have a look. It read: “Wet Paint.” And he was still lost.

“I want a synonym for fat.”
“Say, ‘adipose tissue.’”
“Too long, give me something shorter.”
“How will ‘O-B-C-T’ do?”

Zoology Professor: “Now what insect eats the least food?”
Bright one: “The moth, sir. It eats holes.”

The philosophical student says that if we didn’t have holidays now and then we would not appreciate the restfulness of hard work.

Prof: “Mr. Smith, I noticed that you were talking during my lecture this morning.”
Student: “I beg your pardon, sir, I do not recall it. I must have been talking in my sleep.”

“One of the boys” came in the other night from a date “all wet.”
“Did you get caught in the rain,” asked a friend.
“No,” replied the drenched one, “I just had my date under one of these weeping willows.”

As the fair damsel truly said as she watched our big athlete contesting in the pole vault event: “Just think how much higher he could go if he didn’t have to carry that big long stick.”

As the chorus girl would put it, to be a successful dancer, you’ve got to keep up on your toes.

Traveler in London: “This city is the foggiest in the world.”
“I’ve been to a much foggier place,” said a Londoner.
“Where was that?”
“I don’t know! It was so foggy I couldn’t see.”

Be it ever so homely there’s no face like your own.

“Waiter, are you sure this ham was cured?”
“Oh, yes sir.”
“Well, tell the cook it’s had a relapse.”

Friend: “That wasn’t a very big account of your daughter’s wedding in this morning’s paper.”
Parent (sadly): “No. The big account was sent to me.”

Is This One on Us?
Dr. Milford is now a doctor at a lunatic asylum.
Patient: “We like you better than the last doctor.”
Dr. Milford: “How is that?”
Patient: “You seem more like one of us.”

Realism
The kind old lady came up to the bright young urchin that was playing in the mud puddle beside the roadway and spoke to him.
“What pretty red roses you have in your cheeks,” she said.
“Naw,” replied the kid, “that ain’t no roses; that’s chewin’ tobacco.”

When they pulled the Professor, half drowned, from the water, he sputtered; “How exasperating! I’ve just recalled the fact that I can swim!”

Then there was the case of the burglar’s son who was born with a silver spoon in his pocket.

Methuselah’s Mother: “Certainly I won’t pay fare for this child—he’s only 245 years old.”

Last Year’s Captain
Who is expected to duplicate his last year’s line work against Clemson.

Perfectly Killing
Desperado: “Halt! If you move you’re dead.”
Student: “My man, you should be more careful of your English. If I should move, it would be a positive sign that I was alive.”

The only way you can tell that it is the fourth of July in Chicago is by looking at the calendar.

He: “I am burning with love for you.”
She: “Oh, don’t make a fool of yourself!”

You will find here more than the average of shoe styles just suited to the college man’s taste. John Wards are preeminent as the shoes that college men prefer.

John Ward MEN'S SHOES

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30 AND OCTOBER 1
John Gilbert in “His Glorious Night” An All Talking Picture

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2 AND 3
“Unholy Night” An All Talking Picture

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4
“College Coquette” An All Talking Picture

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5
Alan Hale in “Sailor’s Holiday” An All Talking Picture