Page Six

And What Wouldn’t We Do If We Were Girls

College Humor Writer Gives the Skirts Some Hints

“I’d treat men, if I liked them, as men and not little boys who I thought might ask me to
go to the movies if I let them kiss me,” says Eric Hatch in the February issue of College Humor.
“I’d be pretty careful whom I kissed, but I’d let every man I liked get an idea he could kiss
me if he was clever. I’d let him keep the idea till he tried and then if he tried hard
enough in a nice way I'd probably let him—in a nice way. I think I'd be just low enough to
try and make them think there wouldn’t be anything on earth quite as snappy as having me around the house
when they came in tired. I’d make them comfortable, act glad to see them and feed them and give them
cocktails and things.

“I think I’d read a lot, if I were a girl. I wouldn’t go out every time somebody asked me
to; my complexion couldn’t stand it. I’d never make the mistake of staying at three parties in a row so
late that I came out on the fourth day looking like a paste flower with black-rimmed eyes. Not on your
life I wouldn’t. I wouldn’t come out on the fourth day.

“I'd wear clothes that came from smart shops and if they didn’t and looked as if they might have, I’d
hook some labels and sew them in. In summer I’d wear frocks that men would call lovely and women would
call catty. They would be polka dot and starchy about the neck and quite, quite low. I would try to
avoid the fetish of thinking I couldn’t wear certain colors, particularly if some man said he liked me in them.

“If I were a girl, I suppose, being a sentimentalist at heart, I'd fall in love some time and when
I did I’d fall so hard you could hear me bounce. I wouldn’t let The Man know it, though. I’d
make him suffer and go through agony and treat him like dirt and then, when I finally let him suspect
that there was something about him that appealed to something in me, he'd feel so surprisedly grateful that I could
soak him on the spot for practically anything I wanted.

“I wouldn't always tell the truth, if I were a girl, because that would be disloyal to my sex, and
after all, a girl’s got to be able to be polite, but I would not lie either. I’d make up
fairy stories and maybe fib a little when it was necessary. Then when I got to be somebody's sweetheart I
wouldn’t tell a lie for anything, because men don’t like girls to lie to them unless if they tell the
truth it will hurt. I’d be pretty nice to the man I loved: I'd kiss him good night always and
remember to squeeze his arm after he’d squeezed mine for the last time, unless I was afraid this would end
up in a sort of retaliation thing that would keep me up all night.”

Nancy Hoyt Attacks “Boredom of Youth”

“It is invariably the tendency of twenty-five to view with alarm the antics of twenty,” says Nancy Hoyt, prominent in
Washington diplomatic and social circles, “And it is as invariable with twenty to snicker at the sour words and sour
grapes of twenty-five.

“It is not the antics that I lament but their lack; above all you have a right to gusto, a
gusto which is utterly yours and belongs to no other age. A gusto which is not necessarily only present when
a pair of silver spike heels chatter along the pavement next to lazy patent leather dance Oxfords, or champagne cocktails
twinkle in crystal goblets, but is as much peculiarly yours when three or four of you sink into delicious melancholy
and deplore the dullness of professors, the brutal stinginess of parents and the lousiness of life in general. Vitality glazes
a film of gold varnish over the world for you. Why pour boiling water on it? I reproach you all,
the new younger generation, with deliberately trying to destroy your necessary and delightful wildness by a sheath of awful boredom,
a pall of gloom which is only lifted when contemporaries and friends of exactly the same age are the only
persons present. In America the colleges are packed with crowds of cheerful and vivid men and girls, but let them
separate for a week and fly to foreign parts and the great heebie-jeebie appears to set in. The girls, preposterously
pretty and well dressed, with slim American legs which should provide a harmless delight to eyes surfeited with the heavy
European product, fluttering in printed chiffons, look out from under their floppy straw hats with countenances as grim as a

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Work on Chambers Progressing Rapidly

It is fully expected by authorities of the college that the new part of Chambers Building will be ready for
use by the time of commencement in the spring. Work is going along satisfactorily, although not as rapidly as it
did at first. This is due to the fact that it has been impossible to get some of the materials
necessary for the finishing of the building, and difficulty has been experienced in securing help because of the cold weather.
The outside of the building is complete in every respect except for the dome, the finishing of which is delayed
by the lack of materials. The unfinished dome also hinders work on the interior immediately beneath it because this part
is exposed to the weather. The inside of the structure is for the most part complete. The walls have been
plastered, and only the finishing layers remain to be added to the floors. The scientific fixtures and furniture have been
ordered. These will be installed by commencement. Chairs for the auditorium will be secured through a Charlotte company, and most
of the other furniture has been ordered. Part of the interior equipment will be a system of electric clocks and
buzzers. There will be a central clock and other clocks in each hall with buzzers connected with these to designate
the beginning and ending of periods. Plans, although indefinite, are being made for the installation of a pipe organ in
the auditorium; authorities hope that this may be brought about. The work of building at present is being concentrated mainly
upon the auditorium, so that it may be ready for the graduation exercises in the spring.

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT

Scorn Million

Denisonian: That Cornell University values its fraternity system above a million dollars is evidenced by their refusal of this sum
from an alumnus of one of their oldest and most respected fraternities. This supposedly philanthropic gentleman offered the million on
condition that all fraternities and similar organizations be abolished at Cornell. So popular and so essential has fraternity life become
to college undergraduates that few college authorities dare combat it for fear of their school's reputation, and others are enthusiastic
in their praise of its value in developing the character of a boy. Outsiders hear only of the glamorous and
popular side of fraternity life and little do they realize the value of its intimate personal contact in developing much
youth and beauty is almost knocked backward by the chilling glare and pulled down mouth. “The continued practice of appearing
bored leads to real boredom finally. If the boredom is put on to snub Europe, it is unfair. Paris loves
a gay face. Why not indulge her to the extent of allowing a little life to enter intoyour eyes? “At
twenty the cup runneth over. Let it spill. Splash it around. Share your gusto a little bit. Yell ‘bonjour’ to
the workman who passes you leaving Montmartre at six a.m., kid the taxi driver along, enjoy the street dancing on
the fourteenth of July and don't get too dignified if a waiter on holiday winks at you. You won’t be
any poorer for it. Europe will adore you instead of being bewildered and puzzled, and as for us poor souls
of twenty-five, we'll be a bright poison green with jealousy. What wouldn't I give to do those things and see
those things with the gusto of twenty! Ah! the grapes are sweet, so very sweet. And don’t let anyone tell
you they are sour either!”

What Women Want
Butler Collegian: Since the feminine declaration of equality, men have taken women at their word. A mistaken attitude of men
toward women has resulted. A woman still expects every courtesy from a gentleman that her grandmother demanded from her “beau.”
How great is the disappointment of the modern girl when she must stand and converse with her male acquaintances while
their hats remain glued to their respective crowns. Joe College comes on the scene and slaps his girlfriend on the
back hard enough to jolt her ancestor's false teeth and thinks he’s made a hit. He has—and how! Lucky is
he if he does not get a swift left hook to the jaw. Girls are strong and healthy today, but
they still desire respect and courtesy from those of the opposite sex.

College Men and Politics
Linfield Review: “Politics never used to be considered a gentleman’s game,” says Leo A. Borah, in the December issue of
College Humor. “College folk looked down on the whole business with disdain. They wouldn’t give it a minute’s consideration. But
the attitude of the college student is changing today; he recognizes politics as a real force in the country. If
the students who really feel an active interest in government will consider politics as a career and enroll in the
courses intended to prepare them for it, the United States will be able to mix in world politics without fear.
It will no longer be the tenderfoot sitting in the other fellow’s game.”

You say—he made a complete confession? What did he get—five years? No, fifty dollars. He confesses magazines.—Bradley Campus Cat.

Great aches from little toe-corns grow. —Selected.

VIEWS AND OBSERVATIONS
“What kind of football team is Davidson going to have next season?” was a frequent query. One or two asked
this in open meeting; others in conversations following adjournment.

When Davidson had a winning football team several years ago, a number of alumni from the “Sunshine” state drove hundreds
of miles to be here Home-Coming Day. On November 17th of this year, one alumnus came back to Davidson. A
Davidson football team that has scores chalked up on the positive side of the ledger is a tremendous drawing card
for alumni visits to the campus.

One Davidson minister said he was saving the last Davidson College Bulletin, containing the letter lauding the fighting spirit of
the Wildcats, and added that he intended to preach a sermon on it someday.

The St. Petersburg alumni suggested an alumni meeting for the entire state of Florida, mentioning Orlando as the logical and
central point. The alumni secretary was asked to convey these feelings to other officers and find out the possibilities of
such a gathering.

STOP!
From the Show at WILDCAT CAFE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
HOME COOKED FOOD
OPEN TILL 11 P.M.

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday: The Loves of Casanova
Wednesday: His Captive Woman
Thursday: RICHARD DIX in “Redskin”
Friday: ESTHER RALSTON in “Case of Lena Smith”
Saturday: BUZZ BORTON in ‘Rough Riding Red’

January 10, 1929
Flashes From Everywhere

Ancient Sports
Vienna—(IP)—A marble swimming pool and stadium, built by an Ephesian citizen, Publius Vedius Antoninus, a central heating plant, supposedly built
by the same man, and a basilica constructed by the Byzantine Emperor Justinian and Empress Theodora in honor of John
Theologus, have been discovered by excavations in Asia Minor by the Austrian Archeological Society and Rockefeller Foundation experts. The relics
have been placed in the museum at Smyrna, in all cases where they were movable.

Al Novak?
Prague—(IP)—If Al Smith lived in Czechoslovakia his name would be Al Novak. So would it be with several hundred thousand
other Smiths, for in this country the name Novak is as common if not more so than the name Smith
in America. It is estimated that there are 80,000 persons by that name in the infant nation, and already 11,630
of them have joined a recently organized Novak society. The president of the new organization is Professor Carel Novak, of
the Czech Technical University. The present Czechoslovak Consul General in New York is Dr. J. Novak, and the Minister of
Commerce also bears the name. The famous Prague composer, Novak, is noted in musical circles throughout the world. The Novak
society is planning to publish a journal, and also will seek to aid its members in a social and cultural
way.

“I Wish I Was in Peoria”
Peoria, Ill—(IP)—A prize of $25 has been offered by Bradley College for the best new field song written for the
college.

Study Engineering
Cleveland, Ohio—(IP)—Graduates of Engineering colleges generally receive a higher salary than the professors who taught them, President Charles S. Howe,
of Case School of Applied Science says in an article “College Teaching as a Profession,” which appears in the December
issue of the Case Alumni. The median salary of teachers in engineering colleges is $4,200, while the median salary of
engineering graduates is $7,500, the article states. Some teachers have an income from extra professional work bringing the median income
of the professors up to $5,700. “The professor can never expect to be wealthy, he barely makes enough to live
decently and to educate his children. He rarely has enough left for his old age unless he has been so
fortunate as to inherit some property,” Dr. Howe writes. Conditions, however, are improving, the article continues. During the last 20
years salaries for Case faculty members holding the rank of professor have increased from a maximum of $2,500 to a
maximum of $6,000.

Football Record
Seattle, Wash.—(IP)—Three hundred and sixty-six minutes, or exactly six hours of football in six conference games is the record this
year of Charles Carroll, University of Washington halfback. He did not miss a minute of play during the season. This
is believed to be a world record for football players, at least in more modern times.

An eminent scholar complains that college graduates are earning more in their chosen professions than the professors who taught them
the professions. What better way for the students to get even for all the flunks?—IP.

The Students’ Store has a supply of Dixie Pads on hand for exams—Buy them here and patronize a Student Body
Organization. Also a new line of Sweat Shirts and Sweat Coats at very reasonable prices.

IT’S YOURS, WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?

WE FAIRLY BLUSH TO ADMIT IT:
“If TWO men submit exactly the same essay,” says Professor Pumpernickel, “it’s a coincidence. Three is a miracle. Four or
more bears investigation.” Perhaps we speak in parables... but the fact that Camel leads all other cigarettes by billions is
more than coincidence. More than a miracle. Yea—Camel must have something worth looking into. And forsooth, Camel has!

© 1928 R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
