Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN May 2, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday.
Anonymous articles will not be published.

EDITORIAL STAFF
ZEB V. LONG, JR. - Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL - Managing Editor
Managing Editors:
J. A. CANNON - Managing Editor
G. D. EVERIN - Managing Editor
H. Mc - Managing Editor
L. L. - Managing Editor
A. J. - Managing Editor
P. M. CONWAY - Managing Editor
J. H. Mc - Managing Editor
J. O. MA - Managing Editor
J. S. RUFF - Managing Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. A. CANNON - Business Manager
G. D. EVERIN - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
H. Mc - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
L. L. - Subscription Mgr.
A. J. - Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY - Solicitor
J. H. Mc - Solicitor
J. O. MA - Solicitor
J. S. RUFF - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. S. SATS - President
W. C. RAGIN - Vice-President
J. V. D. MIDDLETON - Secretary-Treasurer
J. G. BERRY
J. C. MATTHEWS
J. G. D. G. MARTIN
W. S.
J. R. C.
W. D. G. STEPHENSON
W. T. H.
A. H. WHI
AD
JOHN M. BROWN
R. F. NORTON
G. P. PARDINGTON
N. B. DICKS
C. B. TOMKINS

THURSDAY, MAY 2, 1929

Some Hopes
—That John Currie will be in shape to win all the sprints at the State Meet Saturday.
—That a large number of students will make an exodus to the Gate City to back up that team.
—That the sound reproduction at the Davidson Theatre will improve with age.
—That the R. O. T. C. Department received Distinguished Rating at the inspection last Friday.
—That every Senior is exempted from every examination.
—That the above is not hoping too much.
—That Soph Day will soon be held, and the apprehensions of the Freshmen relieved.
—That Mother’s Day be held in mind and heart.

EXEMPTION
All Seniors are making feverish attempts to boost their grades as the closing days of the school year approach, and
to make the fact of their exemption from written examinations a certainty. They tell us that this is probably the
last time exemption will ever be in vogue at Davidson. Not a very pleasant outlook for the Juniors and Sophomores
who for two or three years have looked forward to the time when they too could have the privilege and
the aid of exemption. It has always seemed to us that exemptions were entirely fitting for the fourth-year men. Coming
as a sort of reward for steady and earnest labor, the omission of final exams allows the Senior to devote
his time to things which after college is over will mean more to him than many examinations. Moments of close
brotherhood with his college mates, work on activities which have put the spice into his whole career as a student.
These are things which every man holds dear. Besides, the Senior is the busiest person in the entire congregation which
makes up the college life. Ten days of freedom from books gives him just about time to get everything settled
up for the last time. He stands three years of regular examination—if he can average as much as ninety percent
on his work, what is the objection to his release from those last and, in his case, most binding, duties
with pad and pencil? Certainly his scholarship is protected. It is anything but easy to keep eligible for exemption. Things
look dark for further exemptions at Davidson. The sentiment in the student body is very naturally strongly in favor of
them. It is hoped that something can be done to bring back the old conditions in this respect. We do
not advocate the practice of sticking too closely to tradition, but exemption is one tradition which is certainly fashioned to
help the student, and we hate to see it go.

DON’T MAKE FACES
The existence of The Chameleon has been justified. At least, its further existence has been guaranteed by the student body
action recently taken. Although the question is settled, there is still something which may be said about it. As its
name bears out, The Chameleon is a magazine which changes. This idea is embodied in the changes made regularly on
the cover of the magazine. This fact, however, is secondary and external. Its most essential chameleonic quality is that its
contents change and in changing reflect the literary talent on the campus. Any fault—if there is fault—is not with the
magazine itself, for as a reflector it is good. The fault lies in the literary talent of the college. There
are always men in college who need an outlet for their latent literary ability. A means of expression should be
given such men, and, judging from reports of other institutions, our own Chameleon has succeeded rather well in upholding the
good name of Davidson as a creator of good things. Modern college life has come to be in effect a
hard-boiled edition of life in general, and as such it should include as many of life’s elements as possible. There
is no doubt that literary work is a part of life, and since The Chameleon is an outlet for literary
work on the campus, it should therefore be included in our edition of modern life here on the campus. A
new edition of The Chameleon is now in your hands, and it has been settled that it will continue to
be a part of the activities of the school. It all gets down to this—The Chameleon is a reflector of
Davidson College, so why make the reflection poor by making faces at it? Let us view the matter in a
constructive light, reading the magazine, writing for it if we can, and above all, remembering that it is doing its
level best for Davidson.

S.S. W.

A WORTHY IDEA
With Mother’s Day in the offing, some of the fraternities got together and petitioned the college that the fraternity houses
be allowed open on that day for entertainment of the mothers. The petition was granted, and so until seventy-thirty o’clock
on Sunday, May 12, the boys of the various chapters may bring their best pals into the sanctuary. Several fraternities
are planning programs for the day, and expect to give the visiting mothers a sincere bit of college life, and
at the same time to pay some of the old, old debt of love. It is a mighty commendable thing
that these boys are doing in having a regular Mother’s Day, and we would like to see every group on
the campus make it a yearly event. The “Y” could very well take care of the non-fraternity men and their
mothers. We believe that a great and good spirit would arise from such a practice. Perhaps it could even be
made into a sort of college affair, that is, the day an event for every man on the campus, and
let the college aid in preparing a program of entertainment. At any rate, it’s not too late yet for those
fraternities which are not planning Mother’s Day to get busy and arrange for one. The boys will count it one
of the bright experiences of their college days.

“RED” LAIRD
It will be good to have “Red” Laird back on the Davidson campus, and doubly so, since he will come
in the capacity of coach and athletic promoter for various branches of athletic activity. “Red” should be a valuable addition
to the coaching staff, for in his college days, not so long ago, he was perhaps the most versatile athlete
Davidson had turned out in many years. Winning the Norris Trophy Cup in his sophomore year was an accomplishment for
older and more experienced heads than Laird’s, but he turned the trick. “Red” stayed just as close to Davidson as
he could for a year or so after leaving. During that time he was head coach of the Catawba College
teams. He met remarkable success there, considering that the Catawba athletic star was just beginning to rise, and the institution
was in the days of its infancy. Since leaving Catawba a year ago, Laird has been at University School for
Boys in Atlanta, so he comes to Davidson with a continuous record of coaching behind him. Congratulations to the athletic
association for obtaining the services of “Red” Laird. He is a splendid man to mold Wildkittens into Wildcat material.

THE SMALL COLLEGE
According to a recent statement in the Yale newspaper, the death knell of the small college has sounded, what with
junior colleges pressing them from the rear and universities and professional schools bearing down on them from the top. There
is, or soon will be, said this article, no place for the in-between college. Superficially this may appear true, but
there are other factors to consider. A thousand indictments like the one above would not erase the undeniable fact that
thousands of parents still believe in sending their children to colleges like Allegheny. Every year our registrar is forced to
turn away almost as many as he admits, because of a desire to keep the enrollment down to a comfortable
but not overwhelming figure. Witness also our physical expansion in the shape of our two new buildings. They were erected,
not to enlarge the school, but to better equip the student body that we already have. Another factor that the
self-appointed funeral director of the small college forgot to consider was the matter of individuality. A school of the size
of Yale can never hope to direct and control or even consider the individual student as the small school can.
To show what Harvard thinks of the small college they are planning to spend over eight million dollars to divide
the university into smaller colleges, similar to the Oxford type of organization. The day of the small college has not
even reached high noon.—Allegheny.

Current Comment
By John Brown

JEST-A-
By Bill Ragin
(Published Weakly)

WHILE
The British Government's budget for the coming year is estimated at $4,133,000,000 with expenditures at 21 million less. The tax
on tea, which has been in effect since the reign of Queen Elizabeth, is abolished. Airplanes have been disturbing the
making of sound pictures in California.So the studios are now using red captive balloons to warn droning planes to keep
at least 2,500 feet away. Another new use has been found for radio. The Fox Company, taking a singing picture
in the Fiji Islands, is preparing to send their work to Hollywood by radio, William Fox having obtained a special
license for the purpose.

“Whoopee” is no new thing as a cry of urging or exultation. In the Marco play, “Mankind,” written about 1450,
the following appeared: “Hey doog! hay whope! Whoo! Go your way lightly!” Shakespeare used the word spelled ‘hoope’ in several
of his works. In the Massinger and Dekker play, “The Virgin Martyr” in 1603, appears, “Whisper, nay, Lady, for my
part I’ll cry Whoope!” There is a form in Sanskrit, upe or upi, which has a somewhat similar meaning.

Fog seems to really be rather dangerous for aviators. Last week a pilot in Washington got lost on his own
field. He landed just as a heavy fog was settling, and then couldn’t find his way to the hangars until
mechanics, attracted by the sound of his motor, rescued him.

The trend of present air courses is shown by the Curtiss fees. The charge for a 25-hour flying course, enabling
you to get a private license, is $600. A course to qualify you for a limited commercial license (50 hours)
costs $1,200, and a course for a transport license costs $4,500. All of which encourages most people to buy another
Ford and keep on as before.

Speaking of politeness, the peak seems to have been reached when the British and French were fighting in the battle
of Fontenoy in 1748. The British commander shouted, “Gentlemen of the French Guard, fire!” The French Comte saluted and replied,
“Fire yourselves, gentlemen; we never fire first!”

Fate continues to be ironical. Major General Neville, who has gone through four wars uninjured, fell in a bathtub in
Washington and broke a rib.

Perhaps it is a foolish notion that rebels, maybe it isn’t. The tale runs like this: Centuries ago in a
small and oppressed province of Bavaria, the “plague” was taking its deadly toll. The people of the little town of
Oberammergau were religious, they approached the saintly. They saw that in another week there would not be a living person
left. They gathered their priests and solemnly promised in the form of a vow, that they would enact, in periods
of ten years, the story of the Christus, if this peril might be taken from them. The next morning the
plague miraculously stopped. These people were true to their word. Not one period was missed until the World War petrified
every conventional custom in the world. Then the play was merely postponed for a couple of years. This week the
original company plays in the Hippodrome in New York. There will be three charity shows, and three commercial shows. David
Belasco will take charge of the stage directions. Who can refrain from deploring, however, that the greatest pageant on earth
is being commercialized? Should one who has had contact with “The Strange Interlude,” and the like be given the supreme
dictum? It should be remembered, though, that the Pageant is an expensive one to portray. The costumes are of the
most expensive material in the world, the stage settings are costly. Perhaps, with that country’s sunken values of coinage, they
are doing this in order that they may continue the play in the future and still keep the vows of
their ancestors.

Typical court trials in this country are typified by the Vanderburg case in Gastonia. We do not attempt to say
whether the youth is guilty or not. But look at the aspects of the case. It took over a day’s
time to select the eleven jurors. Notice the clever lawyers, how they play upon the technical side of the affair.
Of course, it is all justified by law, but still, how different is it from a mock trial?

Well, the annual inspection of our R.O.T.C. heroes has once again withdrawn into the realm of old, forgotten, far-off things.
It leaves behind, however, a train of memories in the form of bruises where the mean old inspector smacked the
rifles out of the trembling hands of some of the less fortunate. A few of the soldier boys are quite
proud of themselves. Fresh Aigs and Fresh Ole Thing, two of the young hopefuls of the battalion, swell with pride
whenever the inspection is mentioned in their presence. Aigs, who is a lad of considerable prowess, didn’t let the inspector
get away with anything. Why, when he tried to grab young Aig’s gun, the fighting blood of countless generations of
hard-boiled Aigs rose in the latter’s veins, and he resisted manfully. Naturally, he made a more lasting impression on the
inspector than did the other spineless creatures who gave up their trusty Springfields without a single sign of fight.

Fresh Thing, on the other hand, gave the inspector some very enlightening information. While Ole was submitting to a close
scrutiny of his person and firearm, the following dialogue took place:
Inspector: What have you there?
Ole Thing: A gun, sir.
Inspector: Naturally, but what do you call it?
Ole Thing: Well, after a drill on a hot day, I say it’s a &%@lbX"$tb)’!

Anyway, the spectators seemed to appreciate the inspection which progressed to the accompaniment of cries of “Louder and funnier” from
the sidelines. They laughed when I sat down at the piano—some idiot had moved the stool.

It seems that the famous Scotchman of song and story had a son named Vincent. However, he called him Vin,
because he didn’t want to waste a cent every time he called him.

Mother: But surely you didn’t tell him straight out that you love him?
Daughter: No, mother, he simply had to squeeze it out of me.

IT’S TIGHT LIKE THAT
Bertha Vanation, the campus cutie, says that her Scotch boyfriend took her to a cafe, asked her what she wanted
to eat, and then made her eat her own words.

“Lot’s wife had nothing on me,” said the convict as he turned to a pile of stone.

Jake was an habitual resident of the county jail and was released one morning because of good behavior. That afternoon,
he was dragged into court in a very inebriated condition.
“What!” sez the judge sez he, “You here again?”
“Yesh,” replied Jake. “Hash there been any phone calls, shir?”

“Say, guy, I’m tough. I went to an immoral school.”
“Whatcha mean, immoral?”
“We didn’t have no principal.”

Elderly man (in elevator): “Fourth floor, please.”
Elevator boy: “Here you are, son.”
Elderly man: “How dare you call me son! You’re not my father!”
Elevator boy: “Well, I brought you up, didn’t I?”

Then there was the absent-minded professor who boiled his watch for three minutes while gazing intently at the egg.

Impatient man (on streetcar): “Say Skipper, can’t you run any faster than this?”
Motorman: “Yes, I can, but I have to stay in the trolley.”

Contemporary Thought
FRESHMAN CAPS
It is our opinion that the student body would most strongly oppose any action submitted to it for abolition of
the red headgear worn by the first-year men until about Easter of their freshman year. It has been several years
since the inauguration of the cap custom; sufficiently long for the idea to become ingrained in the social order of
the institution. Were it to be abolished now, all of a sudden, there would be nothing to balance its loss;
the result would be an upset in the student body that would perhaps take on the appearance of a revolution.
The university freshmen wear no distinctive dome-coverings and learn little of subordination. By the time they are among the upper
classes they have adopted the traditional U.N.C. superiority and high-hat complex. With the abolition of caps will go laxity in
the rule of speaking to everyone on the campus; then matches will be thrown away and errands go undone. What
small amount of school spirit we now have will be cast to the winds. Shall we see North Carolina State
drop down like this? Rather let us build it up more towards the sky. Permit the freshmen of next year
to protect themselves from woodpeckers, but allow no exceptions, as in the past. State College doesn’t want to be without
its traditional freshman caps.
—N.C. State Technician.

LAST GASPS OF “ROUGH”
As the final stages of the second weekend of Rough week come around, it is evident that the recent edict
of the Interfraternity council to curb the horseplay has been more of a success than a failure. For the most
part, the provisions of the new ruling have been followed out, and the good results in prospect have materialized. The
passage of this ruling is not to be considered an innovation peculiar to Indiana University alone. The fraternities here seem
to have fitted themselves to an evolution which is going through various stages at all the schools in the country.
In some institutions, the freshman ordeal was abolished outright and every vestige of it swept away. At other schools, only
minor curtailments have been brought into effect. It is to be expected that Rough week will be a thing of
the past in most of the schools of the country in a few years. The limitation of the event to
a weekend cannot be expected to remain here. The changing customs eventually will bring about still more elimination and prohibition
until the tradition dies out entirely. The gradual elimination of Rough week appears to be the proper method here because
of the strength of sentiment. To cut it off suddenly would result in too much opposition to ensure its success.
The experiences of the upperclassmen in each organization act as a brake on movements of this kind, and the elimination
of the ordeal must be set at their rate of graduation. The shortening and elimination of Rough week is not
a single change going on in fraternity life. Rather it is a part of a general humanitarian movement now under
way. Most of the schools have abolished freshman hazing on the campus. Not only Rough week but fraternity paddling is
dying out, in the Eastern schools especially. In a few years, the center of the movement will be in Indiana
University. Those who look on the trend as a sort of effeminate thing to be combated at every turn will
find that it is something more than that alone. It is a drive with the sentiment of the leaders of
the University world behind it. There is little belief among those who realize the full significance of the movement that
it ever will be stopped. It appears, therefore, useless for the rabid fraternity men of the old school to attempt
to bar it.
—Indiana Daily Student.
