THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1929

Collegiate Comment

On This and That Music By Horace W. Ervin

Tonight over fifty Davidson College people will journey to Charlotte to hear one of the world’s foremost artists perform in
the New Armory. Fritz Kreisler was born in that cultural center Vienna on February 2, 1875. Like many other great
stars, he showed signs of musical precocity at a very early age. His father, an eminent physician and an enthusiastic
music amateur, was not slow to recognize his son’s genius, and accordingly instructed and encouraged him on the violin. At
the age of seven, Fritz appeared at a concert for children given by Carlotta Patti in Vienna, after which he
entered the Vienna Conservatorium, where he studied under Hellmesberger and the renowned Leopold Auer, who is reputed to have produced
so many of the world’s outstanding violinists. The acceptance of Fritz here was unusual, as pupils were generally ineligible before
the age of fourteen. When ten years old, he won the gold medal awarded by the Conservatorium. He then went
to Paris to study technique and theory, and received another medal two years later (Premier Grand Prix) against forty competitors,
none of whom was under twenty years of age.

In 1889, he visited America for the first time and toured the States with Moritz Rosenthal, pianist. Immediately afterward, however,
he returned home and dropped all musical activity. He entered the Gymnasium at Vienna to study medicine, studied art in
Paris and in Rome, and passed a rigid army examination which entitled him to an officership in the regiment of
Uhlans. Mr. Kreisler, incidentally, is still a reserve. During his year as a military officer, he entirely forgot his instrument.
Then suddenly he emerged, but with such scanty success that he resolved to retire to the country, where he practiced
his violin uninterruptedly for eight weeks. Fitted then for concert work, he made a brilliant debut at Berlin in March
1899. In the same year, he revisited the United States, and it was here that his true greatness received its
first recognition. He was introduced into England in 1901. Three years later, the New York Philharmonic Society conferred upon him
the society medal.

At the outbreak of the World War, he re-entered the Austrian army and was wounded in the Galician campaign of
1914. He has since continued his playing and added to the number of his original compositions. Mr. Kreisler’s playing appeals
most to the musicians of his audiences, for he is not merely a technician, showing off rare accomplishments in playing,
but he unites his dazzling technique with the higher qualities of music. As an interpreter of classical concertos, he is
unexcelled. His style is bold and full of glow, his methods of fingering his own. His programs are more varied
than those of any other modern violinist, chiefly because he is adept in making arrangements of both modern and classical
music. Consequently, he very often presents selections written for another instrument but arranged for the violin by himself. Mr. Kreisler
is not only a virtuoso violinist and a composer; he is a heart and soul musician. It is known that
he is little less expert on the piano than on the violin. And his original compositions and arrangements are warmly
received. He does not attempt to make a show of brilliant playing, as did Paganini when he arranged to have
three of his violin strings break during a performance so that he could demonstrate his exceptional skill in finishing the
piece on one string. His program will include two concertos, which are of classical nature, and some lighter selections.

Glee Club Holds Quartet Try-Outs

In the Glee Club, there are about twelve men trying out for the quartet. The quartet is now made up
of: A. J. Thompson, first tenor; Billy Rule, second tenor; Gene DuBose, baritone; John Regen, bass. However, there is a
possibility that some other men will replace before the final line-up is decided. There will be two other quartets available
for deputations and other functions.

Current Comment

It seems that the farmers at last are getting a little relief—at least part of them. The Federal Farm Board
a few weeks ago loaned $100,000,000 to wheat farmers of the United States. This loan was given out by means
of the National Farmers’ Grain Corporation. The Farm Board expects to soon draw more from their credit account of $350,000,000.

Even the pirates in Europe are resorting to the airplane for business. A group of pirates on the Black Sea
recently sent out a seaplane to spot its prey, and then completed the job by water. In this way, they
robbed the Greek steamer Euripedes.

The University of Pittsburgh recently announced that it paid 12 1/4 cents each for laboratory specimens of bedbugs, which recalls
one of the characteristics of these creatures. One particularly obstinate and ingenious bug who found it impossible to climb the
bedpost of a comfortable-looking bed, climbed up the wall, then over to the ceiling, whence dropped down to the bed
below.

A few days ago, a Chicago hot-dog vendor went to the police station and reported the theft of his equipment.
He was told to write down the name of the man he suspected. Not understanding the officer’s language, he wrote
his own name, and was promptly arrested when he arrived at his home. Incidentally, the Institute of American Meat Packers
is placing on the market seven shades of dye for frankfurters. The colors range from blonde to brunette and can
be had in almost any color combination.

PRESIDENT LINGLE MAKES (Continued from page 1)

The audience had sung the first verse of “College Ties,” in which he appealed to the gathering with a cordial
invitation to attend all Home-Coming exercises. “We want you to feel at home. We want you to feel like a
boy again. We want you to see our great football team fight Carolina to a finish this afternoon,” Doctor McConnell
entreated the visitors. Prof. Ernest A. Beaty, also of the faculty, read the list of deceased alumni who had died
within the past year. The presiding officer concluded the meeting with the extension of a hearty invitation to the audience
to attend the R. O. T. C. drill exhibition on Sprunt field, the luncheon given at the banquet hall in
Chambers building, the football game at Richardson field, and “Stunt Night” in Chambers auditorium, respectively in order of the day’s
program of entertainments. After singing the last verse of “College Ties,” the visitors immediately went to Sprunt field where...They witnessed
a fine presentation of military tactics in drill, displayed by the local unit of the Reserve Officers Training Corps.

Kim’s Kolumn

Sectional football leaders—teams which have survived an exacting season in the merry chase for championship honors—met their most formidable opposition
in last Saturday's contests. In most every section of the country, championship contenders encountered stiff competition, and the final results
probably definitely decided the disposition of sectional championships.

The University of Pittsburgh steamroller continued its thrilling march to the national title by crushing Carnegie Tech 34 to 13.
The Skibos are a hard team to score against, boasting a strong defense that held Notre Dame to a single
touchdown, and the Panthers' decisive victory stamps them as one of the strongest elevens in the history of the game.
Cornell, the only other undefeated or untied team in the East, succumbed to a great Dartmouth eleven, but the superiority
of the Big Green was not marked as the closeness of the score indicates.

In the Midwest, Purdue successfully withstood the challenge of Iowa, while Notre Dame nosed out Southern California 13 to 12,
in two of the most exciting games of the season. Iowa, with a recent “upset” victory over Minnesota, displayed impressive
form but was unable to halt the brilliant offense of the Boilermakers. This victory practically assures Purdue the Western Conference
title, as Indiana can scarcely hope to stop them. Notre Dame's thrilling last-minute victory over Southern California has no bearing
on Midwestern sectional honors, but is important in the Irish team’s campaign for the national title.

Texas Christian, the only undefeated and untied team in the Southwest, defeated Texas, its most dangerous rival, and now appears
destined to remain in the lead in its conference. In the Far West, California, with a 7 to 0 win
over Washington, seems to have outdistanced its two rivals—Stanford and Southern California. The Golden Bears are the only undefeated team
in the conference, with Stanford the only remaining barrier to their title aspirations.

Tennessee's decisive triumph over Vanderbilt narrows the race in the Southern Conference to two undefeated elevens. Tulane seems certain to
retain her unblemished record, while the Vols must defeat the Kentucky Wildcats on Thanksgiving to tie the Green Wave for
Dixie honors.

With the football campaign entering its final fortnight, the contests scheduled for the coming weekend promise to be of distinctive
minor interest. Many of the country’s outstanding elevens are idle, due to the customary open date prior to Thanksgiving, and
only Purdue, Notre Dame, and California, of the championship contenders, will see action. The Yale-Harvard game holds its position as
one of the day’s headline attractions because of the drama attached to “Big Three” contests, but is forced to share
interest with the few games played by the sectional leaders. Purdue vs. Indiana and Notre Dame vs. Northwestern are the
big games in the West, although there is little likelihood that either will have any bearing on the championship status
of the Boilermakers and the Irish. Purdue, an early outstanding favorite to cop the “Big Ten” honors for the first
time in history, regards the Indiana game as an opportunity to prove that they are stronger than Notre Dame. Indiana
held Rockne’s Ramblers to a close score and is certain to give their conference leader a great battle. Notre Dame
has its best team in years and, despite its formidable schedule which includes one hard game after another, should experience
little difficulty trouncing Northwestern.

Five intersectional battles are on tap with the Washington-Chicago tilt heading the list. The Huskies have held Stanford and California
to one lone touchdown each on successive Saturdays and are doped to break into the winning column at the Maroons'
expense. West Virginia Wesleyan vs. Navy, Oregon State vs. Detroit, Ohio Wesleyan vs. Army, and N. C. State vs. Villanova
are the remaining intersectional contests, all of which should be won by the “home” elevens.

AS I PICK ’EM
Wake Forest at DUKE.
N. C. State at VILLANOVA.
FLORIDA at South Carolina.
Boston College at BOSTON U.
New Hampshire at BROWN.
Bucknell at FORDHAM.
YALE at Harvard.
Springfield at HOLY CROSS.
PURDUE at Indiana.
Nebraska at KANSAS STATE.
LAFAYETTE at Lehigh.
Mercer at OGLETHORPE.
Rutgers at N. Y. U.
NOTRE DAME at Northwestern.
ILLINOIS at Ohio State.
Ohio Wesleyan at ARMY.
Oregon State at DETROIT.
CALIFORNIA at Stanford.
TEXAS CHRISTIAN at Baylor.
WASHINGTON at Chicago.
IOWA at Michigan.
MISSOURI at Kansas.
Wisconsin at MINNESOTA.
Idaho at SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
Won 58. Lost 24. Ave. .707.
West Va. Wesleyan at NAVY.

Literary Societies

Eumenean
According to the decision reached by the Eumenean Literary Society on November 12, the direct vote of the people should
not be necessary to declare war. M. H. Norfleet and J. C. Matthews forcefully expounded points in favor of this
opinion and downed the opposition created by C. E. Moore and J. E. Richards. Ardor was added to this discussion
by a one-minute continuation of the debate, with Matthews and Richards contending. The formal contest was followed by an open
forum in which the society members expressed their views on the subject. During the business session of the group, a
program committee, composed of M. H. Norfleet, R. P. Euloe, and A. A. St. Clair, was appointed, and two new
members were proposed and accepted. The critic for the evening was A. R. Bird.

Philanthropic
The Philanthropic Literary Society held its formal installation service on November 12. After the imposing ceremony, in which the old
officers were retired and the new officers were led to their places, the incoming president, F. S. Erwin, made the
address of the evening. He sketched the ideals, the aims, and the aspirations of the society and pledged himself to
do his best to uphold them. Those officers who will assist the president are vice-president, C. I. Kraemer; secretary, H.
W. Ryburn; treasurer, R. D. Russell; first critic, H. E. Russel; second critic, W. T. Ratchford.

(Continued on Page 8)

“DRUGS”
Thanksgiving Candy
“SODA”
“PRESCRIPTIONS”
—see our assortment of the better lines—
White Drug Company
“SUNDRIES”

Special Designs
DELUXE ICE CREAM
At Students’ Store and Dealers
MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COMPANY
Mooresville, N. C.
Brick Eskimo Pies

MONDAY and TUESDAY
Marianne with Marion Davies
Davidson Theatre

SATURDAY
Acquittal with Jacqueline Logan
