THE DAVIDSONIAN, AUGUST 30, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not be published.

ZEB V. LONG, Jr. .................. Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCABE .................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. B. BLACK .................... Managing Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN ........ Managing Editor
S. S. WILEY .................... Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN .......... Athletic Editor
W. C. RAGIN .................. Feature Editor
J. F. PRESTON .............. Feature Editor
L. OWEN ...................... Assistant Editor
R. F. TARRATT ............ Associate Editor
C. M. PRATTIN ............ Associate Editor
............................ Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
E. S. HUFNER .............. President
C. G. PEPPER .............. Vice-President
J. C. MATTHEWS ........ Secretary-Treasurer
J. G. DUNKLIN ............ Asst. Bus. Mgr.
D. G. MARTIN .............. Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. S. LEA .................... Asst. Bus. Mgr.
J. R. SMITH ................ Subscription Mgr.
C. W. F. SPENCER ........ Solicitor
D. G. STEPHENSON .... Solicitor
W. T. HANCOCK .......... Solicitor
A. H. WHITEHEAD ...... Solicitor
JOHN M. BROWN ........ Solicitor
R. F. NORTH .............. Solicitor
G. P. PARDINGTON ...... Solicitor
B. TOMKINS ............... Solicitor

OFF TO SCHOOL

Under the above caption, Hugh A. Query, a graduate of Davidson College and editor of The Gastonia Gazette, recently wrote an editorial that has particular application to the freshmen going away to college, but can also be applied to those who have already experienced collegiate life. We are reproducing this editorial in its entirety, and commend it to you for reading:

A few more days and thousands of boys and girls will be off to college, many of them leaving the home roof-tree for the first time. It will be a time of sorrow—sorrowing goodbyes and a time of many “God-bless-yous.” To the student, boy or girl, it is the opening of a new door to a wonderful world, a land of visions and dreams, of high ambitions and limitless opportunities. To the father and mother, who remain at home, it is the realization of long planning for the children as it is also a time for heartache and apprehension.

As she goes about the loving task of getting the things ready for her boy or girl, the mother, on whom this task falls almost in its entirety, lets her mind run back to the day she first left home to go to school. It was a time of great rejoicing with her, the realization of a lovely dream. The probability is she lived in a small town or village and was one of the community’s sweethearts, a girl pet of the town. To go to college was a rare thing in her young days and all her young friends, both boys and girls, were out to see her leave. They envied her, of course, but their best wishes went with her and she knew that, back home, her girlhood friends would be watching her career and hoping for a great future for her. She gazed fondly on the vanishing landscape as the local accommodation train pulled out of town. Somehow the little home town never seemed just the same to her again, no matter how often she went back to it.

At college she got a broader outlook on life than the people of her home town, as good and kind and honest as the day is long, ever had. She got from her new contacts with fellow students, books, teachers and the college-town atmosphere a new glimpse of life’s meaning, its opportunities and its responsibilities. After graduation she went out into life better equipped than her less fortunate boy and girl friends who did not have the privilege of going to college. She realized that her debt to society was greater because she had had this opportunity to learn. She went out into life, married, assumed the duties of a home-maker and bent her energies to making good in her obligation to her newly chosen home town and her family.

Now she has a boy of her own going away to school. Times have changed. Going to college is not such a rare thing as it was when she was young. Many of the young folks take it largely as a matter of course—this going away to college. They do not realize perhaps, as she did, what it means in the way of sacrifice and labor and self-denial. Going to college costs more now than it did then. It is an expensive proposition. There are fraternities, athletic and social organizations and a hundred and one other things, unknown in her day, that call for money and time. Life is more complex in all its ramifications than it was then. Temptations to waste time as well as money are doubtless greater than they were in her girlhood days.

All these thoughts and a thousand more run through her mind as she packs the boy’s trunk and gets things ready for his going away. She sees that all the buttons are on his clothes, that everything he needs is in its place. She puts in a photograph of herself and the boy's father. These pictures will keep them in his mind. Probably some day when the tempter is pulling strongly at his elbow these photographs will pull with more force the other way. She slips a Bible into his trunk. Will he read it? He may and he may not, but when he sees the Book lying on his table and remembers that his mother put it in with his other things and asked him to read it, an influence will be wrought just the same. It will serve as an anchor just as surely as will his thoughts of home and his recollections of the happy days there.

So the day for his leaving arrives. Maybe a few of his friends are there to see him off. More than likely some of them are going with him or are headed in another direction for some other school. The mother pats her boy on the back, places a kiss on his cheek, tells him to be a good boy and study hard, bravely holds back the tears till he is safely on the train. Her heart and her prayers go with him as mothers’ hearts have always done. A new door has been opened to him; and somehow a door has closed in the parents' lives. They know instinctively that their boy or girl, as the case may be, will never be the same.same again. Life and nature demand a change. May it be for the better. All their hopes and fears, their smiles and tears, are wrapped up in the youngster. He will never know, until he becomes a parent himself and goes through the same experience, what heroic stuff it really takes to stand up and see one’s offspring start out on the long road to learning and to life, a road that cannot bring him back just the same as he was when he left. One of life’s dramas has started.

DORMITORY LORE

“Pipe down, West”—the cry splits the midnight air. Somebody pulls a wisecrack, and the fun is on. Windows go up, heads stick out, and soon every student lacking a sore throat is adding his voice to the chorus. And it’s funny enough until the wisecracks play out and other expressions designed to convey disgust, contempt, or perhaps pleading from the studious ones, begin to drift into the noise. Then, on other occasions, the beds begin to tumble on the fourth floors, doors slam continuously, and it seems that Ypres is being re-enacted.

Well, to get down to facts, it is well known that certain dormitories on the campus get the reputation early in the year of being the centers of most disturbances. One year may see the honor, if it may be called such, change to another building. As a matter of fact, it is changing, not from the building, but from the men. The group of students in the dormitory have it in their power to make that building the most coveted rooming place on the campus, or the biggest “hole.” Of course, there must be plenty of fun, and wherever there are boys you can bet there will be, but the thing we are deploring is the habitual disturbance which connects itself with the dormitory. Often it is carried too far, simply because the men fail to realize that they are really proving a nuisance to others as well as bringing coals of fire on their own heads. A change for the better lies with the roomers in the building.

When the Davidson student body voted out hazing some five years ago, it took a step which has incurred a good degree of support. Very little real hazing has gone on since. However, several cases have arisen lately in which freshmen have left school more because of the appearance of hazing than by actual hazing. Perhaps these were cases in which the new men placed a wrong interpretation on the acts of upperclassmen, or, on the other hand, perhaps some older men asserted themselves a little too strenuously. Both parties can be wary of their actions with benefit to the college. It does not help any to have tales going around about the hazing at Davidson, while, as a matter of fact, the practice is extinct. Just a word of warning, therefore, for freshmen to remember that they are unaccustomed to the ways of upperclassmen, and for the older men to remember that they were freshmen not so long ago.

Another common trouble around September twelfth is the old, old case of homesickness. Try as we may, we can’t avoid it. Seems to us that it is a mighty good thing to think enough of home to miss it a lot, but after the first attack, don’t let that malady linger. That is where the trouble comes. Upperclassmen can do wonders with a homesick freshman, and it’s really up to them to do it as Davidson men. The “Y” secretary is a man for all freshmen to confide in, be the trouble what it may. Don’t fail to call on him.

COMING DAYS

With the opening of college just around the corner and most of the student activities marking time until the official bell rings, The Davidsonian undertakes with this issue to present an idea, at least, of what the college holds in store for her returning sons, and to offer a hearty welcome to incoming students. Much information of use to the new men and of interest to the old will be found in these columns, and, while we trust that it may be of practical value, we also hope that every man entering Davidson this fall will consider this edition of the paper as a handshake from the entire school. Everyone connected with Davidson College, from the President to the student, greets the men who will fill the campus within the next ten days, wishing them all happiness and every success as they begin again the quest for knowledge.

Davidson has a wealth of rare privileges for the man who comes with an understanding heart. The glorious past of which Davidson men are proud to boast, and the bright future which she now sees ahead of her, have been made possible only because the men of the student body have entered whole-heartedly into the practical aspects of Davidson’s spirit. The man who would partake of Davidson’s treasures most must pledge himself to become a part of her life. He must accept her little conventionalities of social life, her progressive system of athletics, her traits of study, and her code of student honor. It is by no means a question of losing one’s personality in the crowd. Rather it is a question of applying the personality to the maze of problems which confront any college man, and being ruled in conduct by the idea of mutual cooperation, seeking for those things which drive home to the searcher the worth of his college experience. In the course of time, having come to love the exercises of the school because he has taken active part in them, the man feels his own personality strengthened and developed by the spirit of his college. Spirit finds its only realization in practical application.

And so, as we face the coming days, wondering what they hold of friendship, honor, growth, may we understand that the result lies primarily in our own hands. May we cultivate that understanding heart for all problems, that determined will which has meant success to all who possessed it. May our contacts with men be sincere. May our efforts to rise be fair to ourselves and fair to the college. May achievement be our reward because service was our goal.