Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN

January 17, 1929

ALUMNI

Alumni Associations In Charlotte And Concord Have Planned Meetings

Charlotte Alumni Meet Tonight and Concord Men Will Gather Tuesday

PRITCHETT TO SPEAK

Director of Physical Education Will Appear Before Both Bodies, Presenting His Plan of Physical Betterment

Davidson College alumni, residing in or near Charlotte and Concord, are to hold local alumni association meetings in their respective
localities. The Charlotte alumni will meet tonight at 6:30 o’clock at the Chamber of Commerce, and the Concord alumni will
gather in that city Tuesday night, January 22nd, at 7:30 o'clock.

The roster of Davidson men in Charlotte totals over 265 men, and a group of enthusiastic alumni in that city
were in personal touch with most of the men early this week. The alumni office had previously mailed out a
notice of the meeting, and also sent each individual a list of all Davidson alumni in Charlotte, according to the
files in the office here. Concord has approximately 50 Davidson men residing in that city. Directors of the association have
decided to plan a brief business session, believing that prevailing conditions in that city are not favorable to a dinner
meeting. The central alumni office will cooperate with this association in a similar manner to the efforts expended in getting
Charlotte alumni to attend.

Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, director of physical education at Davidson, will be the principal speaker at both of these affairs.
Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson, and Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, will also attend from Davidson. It is understood that
the Charlotte alumni have arranged for several brief talks in addition to the address by Capt. Pritchett. Among them will
be Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ’06, president of the General Alumni Association. Officers of the Charlotte organization are Judge E.
McA. Currie, '16, vice-president and Geo. E. Miley, ’21, secretary-treasurer. W. W. Morris, ‘92, heads the Concord alumni as president,
and T. G. Coltrane, '26, is secretary-treasurer.

New Addresses

Rev. Plumer Smith, Mo. '07, Belleview, C. S. McMurray, ’14, care Piggly-Wiggly, Newberry, SC. C. R. Carr, ’28, 1421 Arch
St., Philadelphia, Pa. Kenneth Bell, '27, 728 Union St., Brunswick, Ga. C. F. Smith, ’26, care The Tennessean, Nashville, Tenn.
Tyree Dillard, ’28, 40 Kirkland St., Cambridge, Mass. J. P. McKnight, ’28, care The Charlotte News, Charlotte. Rev. R. A.
Brown, ’92, 947 Rosedale Road, Atlanta, Ga. Rev. W. S. Golden, N.C. L. H. Martin, ’24, care Schuchardt & Schutte,
28-29 Spandauer Strasse, Berlin, C-2, Germany. Rev. P. P. Winn, ’69, Chunju, Korea. E. M. Kelley, ’26 Box 787, West
Palm Beach, Fla. Harrington Mack, ’90, 40-14 Hampton St., Elmhurst, Long Island, N. Y. B. W. Miller, Route 1, Linwood,
N. C. J. F. Hollingsworth, ’28, Hoover Co., Chattanooga, Tenn. John D. Laws, ’25, Southern Bell Tel. & Tel. Co.,
Hurt Bldg., Atlanta, Ga. Zeb McDaniel, ’27, 1348 15th St., Augusta, Ga. L. M. Donaldson, ’09, Atlanta Coast Line, Clearwater,
Fla. H. G. Fenton, ’24, Morehead, Miss. Ted Cashion, ’17, has been appointed chairman of the Boy Scout Committee in
Forest City.

Alumni Marriages

McCaskill-Carr

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Sprunt Carr announce the marriage of their daughter, Alice Gray, to Mr. Charles Moore McCaskill, on
Thursday, December the twenty-seventh at eight o'clock in the evening, First Presbyterian Church, Bainbridge, Ga. Mr. McCaskill is a graduate
of the class of 1921, and is now located in business at Shreveport, La. His address is 2920 Centenary Boulevard.

Cornelius-Setzer

Mrs. Albert Hill Setzer, of Statesville, announces the marriage of her daughter, Josephine, to Mr. Keith Cornelius, on Tuesday, December
25th. Mr. Cornelius was graduated from Davidson in the class of 1923 and at present holds a government position in
Salisbury, being connected with the railway mail service department.

Clark-McQueen

Mr. Eric Conrad Clark, Jr., and Miss Verna Elizabeth McQueen were married in the old historic Carolina Presbyterian Church at
Dillon, S. C., Thursday afternoon, December 13th. Mr. Clark did not graduate from Davidson, entering here with the class of
1927. At present he is vice-president of the James H. Clark and Company, of Elizabethtown.

Kretschmar-Randolph

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest H. Randolph announce the marriage of their daughter, Mildred Ruth, to Mr. Wilson R. Kretschmar, on
Tuesday, December twenty-fifth, Westminster Presbyterian Church, Bradenton, Florida. Mr. Kretschmar graduated from Davidson in the class of 1924. During the
past two years he has been studying medicine at Tulane University, New Orleans, La.

Ratchford-Reid

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Church Reid announce the marriage of their daughter, Ellen Anne, to Mr. Benjamin Ulysses Ratchford on
Monday, December 24th, Rutherfordton, N. C. Mr. Ratchford is a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1926. After leaving
Davidson he studied one year at Duke University, went to Cornell for one year, and is now at Duke studying
for a Ph.D. degree.

Jennings-Carver

Mr. and Mrs. George R. Dawson announce the marriage of their daughter, Margaret Wylie, to Mr. William Hampton Jennings, Monday
afternoon, December 31st, at the Presbyterian manse, Spartanburg, S. C. Mr. Jennings was graduated from Davidson last June in the
class of 1928, and is the first among the recent graduates to be married. He is taking a training course
offered by the Frigidaire Corporation, with headquarters at Dayton, Ohio.

Jones-Rolston

Mr. John Kenneth Jones was married to Miss Ellanora Fetzer Rolston, of Pittsburgh, Pa., Tuesday, December 25th, at St. Petersburg,
Fla. Mr. Jones entered Davidson in the class of 1930, but remained here only one year. He is now located
at St. Petersburg.

Crawford-Edwards

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Thomas Edwards announce the marriage of their daughter, Sarah Grainer, to Mr. Clifford Rankin Crawford, Thursday,
December 27th, at Lakehurst, Kinston, N. C. Mr. Crawford, known throughout the south as a leading baseball player, is a
graduate of Davidson in the class of 1923. At present he is taking a course in physical education at Springfield
College, Springfield, Mass.

McCluer-Conoly

Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Conoly announce the marriage of their daughter, Mary Margaret, to Mr. John Deill McCluer, Wednesday,
December 26th, at Rennert, N. C. Mr. McCluer is a graduate of the 1924 class, and after taking post-graduate work
at the University of North Carolina became connected with the college, where he is now located.

DAVIDSON ALUMNUS DELIVERS SERMON BEFORE PRESIDENT

Rev. Thornton Whaling, D.D., '77, Has Honor of Preaching to United States President

SUBJECT, “HUMILITY”

President Coolidge Attended Historical First Presbyterian Church in Staunton While on Vacation in Virginia

Rev. Thornton Whaling, D.D., graduate of Davidson in the class of 1877, recently visited his old home at Staunton, Va.,
which visit coincided with the one made to that section by President Coolidge. The latter attended the First Presbyterian Church
on December 2nd, and it so happened that Dr. Whaling had been asked to fill the pulpit. A feature account
of this service, as it appeared in the Louisville (Ky.) Herald-Post, follows:

“President Coolidge had a sermon on humility preached to him on December 2nd from the lips of a distinguished Louisville
divine, Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling, of the faculty of the local seminary at First and Broadway.

“Dr. Whaling did not prepare the sermon for the president—and, in fact, he did not have the most remote idea
that the President would hear it.

“As a matter of fact, if he were consulted, Dr. Whaling would probably have expressed the conviction that the chief
executive of the American government did not particularly need a sermon on humility.

“It happened this way, however. When Dr. Whaling was called to his own ‘homey’ atmosphere in Virginia for the Thanksgiving
holidays and was requested to preach a sermon on Sunday, December 2nd, in the old First Presbyterian Church at Staunton,
Va., the pastorate held by the father of the illustrious Woodrow Wilson at the time of the birth of the
late statesman-president, Dr. Whaling’s mind naturally turned to the idea of greatness and the things which constitute true greatness. He
therefore chose his text from Luke IX, the 45th verse, which reads, ‘Then there arose a reasoning among them which
of them should be the greatest.’

“President and Mrs. Coolidge, on a little holiday visit in Virginia, decided quite unexpectedly to the general public in the
small city, toattend the First Presbyterian Church that particular Sabbath morning. And so, when Dr. Whaling walked to the platform
his gaze fell over the congregation and met the mild eyes of the president, fixed in reverent attention on the
pulpit.” The Louisville article then recounted, in brief, the remarks of Dr. Whaling.

Chemistry Department of Clemson College

Engagements Wright-Crow

“Dr. and Mrs. John Bryan Wright announce the engagement of their daughter, Margaret Elizabeth, to Edmund Burwell Crow, Jr., the
wedding to take place in February.” Mr. Crow entered Davidson in the class of 1925, but did not graduate. He
attended the University of North Carolina after leaving here. At present he is connected with A. M. Pullen, accountants, at
Raleigh, N. C.

Friends will regret to learn of the deaths of: Mason E. Moore (killed in automobile accident), brother of J. E.
Moore, ’26, of Salisbury, Wallace H. Moore, '23, of Cambridge, Mass., and son of Rev. J. W. Moore, D.D., '86,
of Japan; Alfred M. Smyre, father of Fred L. Smyre, 1900, of Gastonia; J. N. McElwee, father of J. R.
McElwee, ’12, of Rock Hill, S. C.; and the young son of Rev. Harold M. Shields, ’11, of Atlanta, Ga.

Alumni Personals

Mr. and Mrs. L. B. Huie, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a son, Earl Best, on November 10th. Mr.
Huie is in the class of 1926, and so far as is known at Davidson this is the first son
born to a graduate of that class.

Rev. W. M. Hunter, ‘93, formerly chairman of the School and Colleges Committee of the Synod of North Carolina, is
now connected with the promotion of Peace Institute at Raleigh.

Friends will regret to learn that Rev. J. H. N. Summerell, D.D.,’73, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of New
Bern suffered a second paralytic stroke during the latter part of December. Newspaper accounts indicated that no hopes were entertained
for recovery.

Geo. E. Wilson, Jr., ’10, of Charlotte, was recently elected president of the Paramount Motor Company, a new $100,000 corporation.
This was formed through the merging of Ford dealers within a radius of 50 miles of Charlotte.

Judge James E. Boyd, '66, of Greensboro, is expected to recover from an operation which he recently underwent. Judge Boyd
is now 84 years old, and only a few years ago retired from active work on the federal bench.

R. S. Clary, Jr., ’12, has been made associate editor of The Southern Furniture Journal, a periodical which is published
in Charlotte. He became connected with this concern several months ago as circulation manager, having previously represented several advertising agencies
with headquarters in Greensboro.

Dr. U. S. Alexander, ’15, who was recently awarded a Ph.D. degree from Columbia University in New York, has returned
to Charlotte and entered the law profession. He was at one time prominently connected with the school department in Charlotte.

Roland B. Parker, ’26, who is connected with the Darlington School for Boys, was distinctively honored during the Christmas holidays
by the Dixie Interscholastic Press Association. He was elected vice-president of the association, made chairman of the junior executive board
and was also made a member of the general executive board.

Dr. J. W. Moore, ’08, has been elected dean of the medical college at the University of Louisville, located in
Louisville, Ky.

Rev. Dwight Chalmers, '20, has reconsidered his decision relative to a call to the Charlottesville, Va., Presbyterian Church, deciding to
accept it after the congregation extended him a second invitation to become their pastor. Since leaving Union Theological Seminary he
has been in Greensboro, and accounts of his resignation and subsequent editorials in the paper showed the esteem in which
he was held by the Greensboro citizens. He will leave Greensboro in March or April.

F. L. Fuller, Jr., ’14, of Durham, has been elevated to the post of assistant treasurer of the Durham and
Southern Railway Company.

Dr. R. H. Crawford, ’10, of Rutherfordton, has been highly honored with election to the Southern Surgical Association, at its
December meeting.

Rev. C. H. Little, ’96, pastor of the Sharon Presbyterian Church near Charlotte, will sail Saturday to points of interest
in the Mediterranean and Holy Land.

Rev. R. E. McClure, ’20, is now taking a post-graduate course at Yale University preparatory to teaching in a theological
college. He was formerly pastor of the Leaksville and Bethel Presbyterian churches.

S. T. Henderson, '17, of Charlotte, leaves next week to attend a meeting of the National Association of Real Estate
Boards. He was elected by the Charlotte board as their representative, at the same time being chosen as a director
of that organization.

Dr. H. T. Pope, ’95 (N. C. Medical College), of Lumberton, has been elected president of the Robeson County Medical
Society, and Dr. J. T. Burrus, 1900 (N. C. Medical College) of High Point, has been re-elected a member of
the Guilford County Board of Health.

Dr. W. H. Sprunt, Jr., ’14, of Winston-Salem, was recently chosen as a director of the Civitan Club in that
city, and Z. A. Morris, Jr., '23, is now vice-president of the Concord Kiwanis Club.

J. F. Hurley, ’93, editor of the Salisbury Post, is the donor of a loving cup given to the citizen
of Salisbury rendering the most outstanding service to the community.

GASTONIA ALUMNI HOSTS AT DINNER TO FOOTBALL MEN

Over Twenty Former Students of Davidson Entertain at Armington Hotel

OFFICERS ELECTED

Fred L. Smyre, of Gastonia, Was Chosen as President, and Dave Hall, of Belmont, Was Selected as Secretary

Over twenty Davidson College alumni of the Gaston County Alumni Association entertained the two Davidson coaches and approximately twenty-five members
of the 1928 football team of Davidson College at a banquet at the Armington Hotel in Gastonia on December 11th.
This was the fourth annual banquet staged by the Gaston County alumni.

D. R. LaFar, '22, president of the organization, presided as toastmaster and handled the affair with facility and effectiveness. F.
L. Jackson, ’06, treasurer of the college, was a guest of the association, and he was designated to introduce Capt.
Norton G. Pritchett, director of physical education at Davidson, who made the principal address.

Capt. Pritchett appeared before his first body of Davidson alumni, and made a thorough and brief presentation of the physical
condition of the students at Davidson, disclosing some startling facts. He outlined the proposed plan of developing the idea at
the college, maintaining that with proper equipment a remarkable change could be made in the physical bodies of each student.

A tirade of commendable comment was immediately started, brief talks being made by a number of alumni, most of whom
touched directly upon the physical education program. Among those who held the floor for a short time were S. A.
Robinson, W. R. Sparrow, Rev. T. G. Tate, Coit M. Robinson, R. D. Hall, Hugh A. Query, J. Lee Robinson,
F. L. Smyre, Riggs McConnell, and Ernest Milton.

At the close of the meeting, F. L. Smyre, ‘10, of Gastonia, was elected president of the Gaston County Alumni
Association, and R. D. Hall, ’19, of Belmont, secretary.

Alumni in that section attending the affair were S. A. Robinson, '99; F. L. Smyre, 1900; F. E. Hashagen, ’07;
H. A. Query, '09; Rev. T. G. Tate, ’10; M. R. Adams, ’16; D. R. LaFar, ’22; Geo. W. Ragen,
Jr., '26; R. H. Falls, ’26; W. T. Spencer, '26; R. R. Glenn, ’27; J. E. Love; W. R. Sparrow,
’27; R. S. Lowrance, '28; Proctor Thompson, ’28, and J. Lee Robinson, a trustee, all of Gastonia; Rev. W. M.
Currie, ’19 and B. D. Hall, ’10, of Belmont, and Coit M. Robinson, ’10, of Lowell.

New corporations in which Davidson alumni are interested is the Craven Realty Corporation, of New Bern, with which McKinnon Carmichael,
’17, is connected, and the Morgan Farm and Mercantile Corporation, of Laurel Hill, of which H. W. Malloy, Jr., ’15,
is a stockholder.

What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?

ANSWER NO. 5

The college man who has grown from childhood into the knowledge of Christ, or the man who through an arresting
experience, has gained such knowledge—shall he not consider whether the possession of this knowledge is an element in his call
to the ministry?

Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a happy and achieving life; perhaps we could help you.

Union Theological Seminary
