Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN January 31, 1929

ALUMNI

Enthusiastic Meeting Of Alumni In Charlotte Ends In Several Motions

Largest Group of Davidson Alumni Ever to Attend Meeting in Charlotte

OFFICERS CHOSEN

Address by Capt. Norton G. Pritchett on Physical Education Was One of the Features—Action Taken

One of the largest groups of Davidson College alumni ever to meet in a local meet at Charlotte, gathered together
at the Chamber of Commerce in that city Thursday night, January 17th. Dinner was served; an address delivered by Capt.
Norton G. Pritchett, several informal talks made, a number of motions passed, officers elected, and other matters transacted. Interest in
all the college was keen, with many of the sixty alumni attending taking an active part in the discussions.

Judge E. McA. Currie, '16, was elected president of the association, with Geo. Miley, ’21, vice-president, and P. O. Bethea,
secretary-treasurer. Old officers were Judge Currie, vice-president, and George Miley, secretary-treasurer. The meeting was presided over by Judge Currie as
toastmaster. He introduced several of the guests and leading alumni, among whom were Dr. J. P. Matheson, ’99, former president
of the General Alumni Association; Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, ‘06, present incumbent; Coaches Monk Younger, ‘19, and Tex Tilson; S.
A. Robinson, Ernest Milton, of ‘99, of Gastonia, and '26, alumni secretary.

Captain Pritchett outlined the program of physical education which he said he would like to see instituted at Davidson, told
of the possible results which would accrue to the athletic teams of the college, and urged the alumni to take
some steps which would lead to the ultimate erection of a field house at Davidson, where proper physical development could
be effectively done.

At the conclusion of his address a motion was made and passed that the Charlotte alumni association approved the physical
education program. Added to the motion was the provision that a committee be appointed to draw up resolutions and plans
to be presented to the General Alumni Association meeting at Davidson next commencement. The opinion was expressed that the Charlotte
chapter, the largest of any of the 25 in existence, was the logical group to lead the movement.

The committee appointed for this task was P. O. Bethea, chairman; McAlister Carson, ‘13, and Dr. H. Stokes Munroe, ‘09.
Dr. Oren Moore, '08, presented the need of more specialized courses in the curriculum at Davidson. Several men expressed their
opinion along this line, and one of the leaders was John James, ‘00. After considerable discussion a motion was made
and passed that it was the sense of the Charlotte alumni that an investigation of this possibility should be made
by the faculty and trustees, and that preparatory work for such professions as seemed feasible be instituted.

Davidson alumni attending the meeting were: Baxter Davidson, ’80; Dr. J. P. Munroe, ’82; Dr. J. R. Alexander, ’93; O.
L. Barringer, '97; A. W. Brown, ’90; Dr. R. H. Lafferty, '99; Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99; Dr. H. S.
Munroe, ’99; W. B. McClintock, ’01; J. O. Walker, ’01; Dr. T. M. McCoy, ’06; Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, '06;
T. B. Long, ’07; Rev. J. M. Walker, ’07; Dr. Oren Moore, ’08; John James, ’09; Chesley Watkins, ’09; Dr.
L. M. Fetner, ’11; McAlister Carson, '13; L. H. Wilkinson, ’13; R. T. Crawford, ’14; Fred L. Harkey, ’15; Lex
Kluttz, '15; Judge E. McA. Currie, '16; Dr. T. D. Sparrow, ’16; S. T. Henderson, ’17; Dr. R. W. McKay,
'17; Rev. B. Y. Yandle, ’17; N. Y. Pharr, ’19; J. M. Dunlap, ’21; George Miley, ‘21; J. C. Sibley,
’21; P. O. Bethea, ’22; Harry Whitener, ’23; R. H. McMillan, '27; Davis Robinson, ’24; R. L. Price, ’24; T.
F. Marrow, Jr., ’25; H. B. Matthews, '25; L. B. Huie, ’26; B. T. Crayton, '26; J. A. McMillan, ’26;
E. P. O'Connor, '26; J. G. Hand, '27; J. B. Kuykendall, Jr., ’27; M. P. Crawford, '27; W. Grey, '28;
W. M. Strong, Jr., '28.

HIGH HONOR IS BESTOWED UPON A DAVIDSON ALUMNUS

Rev. Walter L. Lingle, D.D., ’92, Now Heads Executive Committee of Federal Council

PROMINENT LEADER

He is President of Assembly’s Training School, Chairman of Davidson Board of Trustees, and is a Writer and Lecturer

Rev. Walter L. Lingle, D.D., ’92, of Richmond, Va., co-editor of The Presbyterian of the South, president of the Assembly's
Training School, chairman of the Davidson College Board of Trustees, and former moderator of the General Assembly’s Training School, has
been elected to the chairmanship of the executive committee of the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America,
at a meeting held in New York recently. This is one of the most important positions which can be held
by anyone in the Protestant churches of America. The Federal Council is composed of representatives of about thirty of the
Protestant churches in the United States. The Council meets only once every four years, and is in session for only
a few days at a time. The executive committee meets once or oftener each year, and has entire charge and
supervision of the work of the Council during the time between meetings. As chairman of the committee, Dr. Lingle will
direct the affairs of the committee which has executive charge of all the activities of the Council. It will deal
with subjects of common interest to the churches connected with it. During the existence of the Council it has paid
particular attention to the social problems of the country and in addition has taken an active part in world mission
work and evangelism.

Dr. Lingle is one of the leading ministers of the Southern Presbyterian Church, and has been described as a man
of “extensive learning, broad vision, and wide sympathy with all departments for church work.” The Southern Presbyterian Church recognized him
with the highest honor they could confer when he was made moderator. He was chairman of the committee which revised
the Book of Church Order, a member of the committee which prepared the new hymnal. During his lifetime he has
occupied several important pastorates, and was at one time a member of the faculty of Union Theological Seminary. Several valuable
books have been written by this leading Davidson alumnus.

Dr. J. C. Rowan, '04, of Concord, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of that city, has recently suggested that
the night service on Sunday be abolished in order that members of the congregation can use that time in doing
practical Christian work. His suggestion has attracted state-wide attention, and even beyond the state. A number of editorials have been
written regarding this practical idea.

Mr. A. H. Hollingsworth, Jr., '20, a senior at Union Theological Seminary, has been awarded the Larus fellowship for next
year, which means that he will continue to study at the seminary and will also teach. Mr. Ralston Bitzer, '22,
who completed his course at Union Seminary last year, returned.

FOREIGN WORK

Like to Travel—does Romantic, Wealthy South America call you? Unusual opportunities for young men. American employers pay fare and expenses.
Big pay—write for Free Information and instructions, “How to Apply for position.” No obligations. SOUTH AMERICAN SERVICE BUREAU 14600 Alma
Ave., Dept. C. P. Detroit, Mich.

Alumni Deaths

D. S. Burwell, ’65

Dandridge Spottswood Burwell, an alumnus of Davidson College in the class of 1865, and one of the oldest of Davidson
alumni, died Saturday night, January 5th, at the home of his niece, Mrs. R. C. Carson, at Whiteville. He was
buried in Charlotte. Mr. Burwell entered Davidson from Charlotte in 1861, at the time the conflict between the states started.
He left Davidson to enter the Confederate Army, where he served in the medical department during 1863-1864, and then entered
the artillery, where he remained during 1864-1865 as a member of the Third Company, First Virginia Light Artillery. He returned
to Charlotte after the war, remaining in that city five years before he became a merchant in Norfolk, Va. At
one time he was president of the Merchants’ Exchange in that city. He was very prominently connected with some of
the leading families of North Carolina, and among the survivors is Rev. R. S. Burwell, D.D., of Davidson.

J. D. Bernhardt, ’23

James Douglas Bernhardt, graduate of Davidson in the class of 1923, died at his home in Lenoir Thursday night, December
20th. Death was caused by pneumonia, which developed after he had sustained a fall on the preceding Sunday, when he
crashed through aplate-glass door, suffering severe cuts and lacerations about the throat, which severed his windpipe. His condition was serious
at first, but after he had survived for several days, hope was expressed for his recovery. The complication of pneumonia,
however, was fatal because of his weakened condition. Mr. Bernhardt was one of the recent graduates of Davidson, but had
attained a prominence in Caldwell County which had the earmarks of a great career. He attended Duke University and graduated
from the law school. Shortly after his return to Lenoir, he was elected clerk of the superior court of Caldwell
County. Among the survivors are his father, J. M. Bernhardt, '86, and his brothers, M. R. Bernhardt, ’20; G. H.
Bernhardt, '16; R. G. Bernhardt, '23, and John C. Bernhardt, '27.

Dr. W. D. Rose, '09
The alumni office at Davidson has just been notified of the death of Dr. Wallace Dickson Rose, member of the
class of 1909. His death occurred at his home in Little Rock, Ark., on August 17, 1928. No account of
his life has yet been obtained, the alumni catalogue having the sole notation, “business, Little Rock, Ark.”

Eben Hardie, '97
Meager information has been obtained about the death of Mr. Eben Hardie, member of the class of 1897. A notice
received at the alumni office stated that he died at his summer home at Biloxi, Miss., and that his death
was sudden. He had been in ill health for some time, but was improving when he was stricken while driving
his auto from church one Sunday. He spent most of his time in New Orleans, La., where he was engaged
as a cotton broker.

Dr. Jos. T. Wearn Is Selected to Head Department
Davidson Alumnus Will Head Department of Medicine at Ohio Institution
GRADUATED IN 1913
His Rise in Medical Profession Has Been Phenomenal, and Upon Some Subjects He is Held as an Authority

Dr. Joseph Treloar Wearn, graduate of Davidson College in the class of 1913, has been chosen to head the Department
of Medicine at the School of Medicine of Western Reserve University, at Cleveland, Ohio, according to an announcement which has
been made through the Charlotte papers. He will also serve as director of medicine at Lakeside Hospital. Dr. Wearn will
not go to Cleveland until he has completed his academic year in the East. At present, he is associate professor
of medicine at Harvard Medical School, associate director of the Thorndike Memorial Laboratory, Boston City Hospital, and visiting physician of
the Boston City Hospital. After obtaining his A.B. degree from Davidson College, Dr. Wearn attended the medical school at Harvard
University, securing his M.D. degree there in 1917. His rise in this profession has been phenomenal. He is well known
as an outstanding clinician, investigator, and administrator. His studies on the activity of the kidney and heart have been published
in the past ten years and occupy space in the libraries of leading physicians. He was the first assistant of
the late Dr. Francis Peabody, as assistant physician at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, in Boston. Dr. Wearn has been
secretary of the American Association of Clinical Investigators. The Charlotte Observer commented editorially this week, “Another instance of the Charlotte
boy climbing the ladder of fame is developed in the case of Dr. Joseph Treloar Wearn, given a good start-off
as graduate of Davidson College, 16 years ago, since associate director of medicine at Harvard and of Thorndike Memorial, at
Boston, and now risen to head of the School of Medicine of the Western Reserve University, at Cleveland, Ohio, one
of the highest positions in the realm of medical education. Dr. Wearn is a comparatively young man, scarcely past 35,
and he has attained rank in the profession that reflects much honor on his native town.”

Concord Alumni Meet on Monday
The Concord chapter of the Davidson College Alumni Association, which was originally scheduled to meet on Tuesday night, January 22nd,
postponed the meeting until next Monday night, February 4th, when alumni in cities will be invited to meet at 7:30
p.m. in the office of W. W. Flowe, ’95, in the Cabarrus Savings Bank Building. This will be an informal
gathering, the dinner feature having been eliminated at the advice of those making local arrangements. Capt. Norton G. Pritchett will
talk about the physical education program at Davidson. Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson and Ernest Milton, alumni secretary, will
attend the Concord meeting. W. W. Morris, ’92, is president of that chapter, and T. G. Coltrane, ’26, is secretary-treasurer.
Over fifty Davidson alumni in Concord, Kannapolis, and Albemarle are being invited to the meeting.

Mr. W. S. Blakeney, ’84, of Monroe, has been re-elected president of the Bank of Union, located at Monroe. Rev.
E. S. Currie, ’12, who has been home on furlough and has been serving as pastor in Richmond, Va., will
leave soon for his field in China. His address will be Haichow, Kiangsu, China. Dr. Howard A. Banks, ’88, of
Pittsburgh, Pa., who has been editor of the religious paper, “Christ Life,” has recently moved the place of publication from
Cleveland, Ohio, to Pittsburgh. When Dr. Banks attended Davidson, he was a member of the third generation of that family
to be connected with the college. His great uncle, Rev. William Banks, was a trustee and chairman of the board
in 1874. Dr. Banks’ father graduated in the class of 1857. At present, he has a son at Davidson, Howard
A. Banks, Jr., in the class of 1932, and expects to have another one here next year. Dr. D. G.
Caldwell, ’20, of Concord, has been re-elected health doctor of Cabarrus County. He will be serving his third successive term.
Mr. T. F. Marrow, ’25, is one of the stockholders in the new corporation in Charlotte, known as the Poplar
Apartments Corporation. Hon. L. M. Blue, ’86, of Gibson, member of the State Senate, has been appointed chairman of the
Educational Committee of the Senate. This is one of the most important committees of that body.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers
BARNETT and COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Something may have taken place in the life of a man of twenty, which has given him a spiritual experience
of the power of Jesus Christ superior to that of most men twice his age. God may thus have been
calling you into His ministry. Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a happy and achieving life; perhaps we
could help you.

Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia
WRITE TO B. R. LACY, Jr., D. D.
What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?
