Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not
be published.

AUBREY BROWN.............Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL..............Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF:
F. D. MILLER...............Managing Editor
C. M. PRATT.................Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT..............Managing Editor
Z. V. INGRAM...............Sports Editor
V. A. McLEAN...............Associate Editor
P. B. BROWN...............Associate Editor
D. P. McKINNON............Associate Editor
W. W. McCONNELL..........Associate Editor
J. L. McCLINTOCK..........Associate Editor
C. R. McCORMICK..........Associate Editor
J. B. McLEOD...............Associate Editor
W. K. McNEILL.............Associate Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB:
E. E. McCUTCHEON..........President
W. W. McCUTCHEON........Vice-President
S. H. McCUTCHEON..........Secretary-Treasurer
R. F. PRESTON
H. C. GINN
R. G. AMMONS
D. RUSK
W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
S. S. WILEY
H. ORY
J. V. D. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 1929

EVERYBODY CASTS A VOTE

Leading off with the election of student body officers next week, what is probably the most interesting time of the
year will have begun—the time when leaders for another year shall be chosen; the time when aspiring upperclassmen shall have
their hopes and ambitions crystallized or shall be thrust into the discard; this procedure will be in order.

This most exciting period, for some, always calls for the same degree of indifference on the part of others. Why
students will not make the necessary effort required in placing one’s ballot in the proper box upon leaving the Chapel
is strange, to say the least. Indeed, it is pitiable.

A second feature which might be altered with profit is the matter of placing nominations before the electorate. Many times
there are names before students, especially is this true of freshmen, that are nothing more than names. If the nominations
were announced and placed before the student body for perhaps three days, there would be sufficient time for investigation.

There are many men who are entitled to vote in student body elections who do not attend chapel and who
are, therefore, unable to make their preference known. Cannot a central voting place be established where those who have not
voted at chapel time may place their ballots?

These suggestions, then:
1. The establishment of a central voting place to be maintained for several hours where everyone may have the opportunity
to vote.
2. Announcement of nominations at least three days preceding the election.
3. Everybody casts a vote in every election.

LET THE FRESHMEN WEAR RINGS

No, we don't mean that, but really first-year men might as well be given the privilege of wearing their class
rings as sophomores and juniors. This point of class rings, highly protected as an honor which only those who shall
graduate shall have at other institutions, is given no attention whatsoever here. It’s a question of whether the students of
college want men wearing rings which signify them as recipients of degrees when, in many instances, they will not finish
their college work.

There are various rules as to when a student may buy his class ring, the best of which seems to
us to be the following: Students may have the privilege of buying class rings when reports from the Registrar’s office
show them as having successfully completed the work required for the first semester, junior year.

If anybody has any inclination toward expression about this matter, the Open Forum column, starving in recent issues, will welcome
letters.

BROADENING SYMPATHIES

That world peace will be realized not by a passive assent and an inactive endorsement by the citizenship but by
“taking a practical part in supporting all useful international undertakings” is the opinion of Herbert Hoover as expressed in his
inaugural address. He points out the fact of “youth pressing more and more into our institutions of learning; that our
people are seeking a larger vision through art, literature, science and travel; that they are moving toward stronger moral and
spiritual life—that from these things our sympathies are broadening beyond the bounds of our nation and race toward their true
expression in a real brotherhood of man.”

Such a reaching out into strange and unexplored fields must necessarily bring about a more definite understanding of the problems
of other peoples. The student mind will be quick to grasp the attitude of the foreigner suffering from past wars
upon reflection and he will realize that there is a distinction that is keen between himself and those who were
more affected by the recent conflict than was he.

The younger generation in Europe is overshadowed by the possibility of future wars. Many of the younger men are filled
with a feeling of utter futility. They feel they are under sentence of death, and that creative effort in those
circumstances is worthless.

Strikingly different is the American student's attitude. This country thought it suffered during the World War, but its sacrifices are
entirely incomparable to the European holocaust. Even though the battlefields have been cleared there still remain great clouds of smoke
hanging low to fill the hearts of European youth with a secret fear that the gruesome episode may be repeated.
Fortunate American youth has no such black tragedy to haunt it while it is working toward higher ideals and realizing
unspeakable business and economic progress. But in this prosperity, they should not forget those very similar young men and women
across the sea, laboring without privilege or encouragement, working with no promised future, offered only death in a bloody struggle
of nations by destiny. They must strive to obliterate all semblance of further military oppression until, without thought of nation
or race, there shall be the knowledge that life is secure, that war is no more, and that opportunity awaits
each without discrimination.

CHALLENGE!

The next two or three years are going to witness the most critical time in Davidson's history. For many years
the college has been in a process of building and foundation-laying. In fact, since its founding, the forward strides of
the institution have been convincing. Now, however, there is a new period in the immediate offing. Times have changed in
methods of college operation as well as in business, professions, and industry, and Davidson is doing her part toward meeting
this spirit of the New Age.

With Chambers Building rearing its dome to a finish, a material symbol of the college’s new life is in evidence.
The massive structure carries in it the very essence of Davidson’s ideals and hopes. It is a tribute to all
the men who have completed their courses here, and a beacon of light to all who will walk these halls
in the future. The athletics of the college are on the upgrade after a period of varying success, and indications
are that the whole system of athletic training will soon embark on a firmer basis than it has yet enjoyed.
Everything points

Cosmic Chaos
By J. W. McCutchan

Collegiate Quips

Admirers of that excellent explorer and gentleman, Roald Amundsen, have never ceased to wonder as to his fate. It will
be remembered that he was one of a party to search for the Nobile crew. Nobile was found, though most
of his crew and Amundsen were not. Recently in Rome, the examining board severely condemned General Nobile for his conduct
in the affair. In disgrace, he must now answer questions as to why he abandoned a part of the crew
of the Italia, allowing himself to be carried to safety. A captain must be the last to leave his ship,
a leader should be the last to desert his expedition. Yet psychologists will tell us that Nobile only adhered to
the instinct of self-preservation. Bestial traits!

Another revolution is in progress in Mexico. This time it is bloodless. The Mexicans appear to be progressing in the
art of scientific and classic revolt. Several states have quietly captured or bribed the Federal troops, along with their arms
and arsenals. It is hoped also that the United States, thus far having refrained from sending Marines there to control
military tactics, will also overlook the possible entanglements in which our diplomats could become fast.

For the first time in many years, Congress held an active legislative session on Sunday. Movements by blue law advocates
to postpone the meeting were overruled and defeated by a majority. Reformers were more successful in the Senate, however, and
being led by Senator Joe Robinson from Arkansas, adjourned while making protest against legislative use of the Sabbath. The question,
which will trouble many honest souls is, was the meeting a work of necessity or mercy?

Doctor William Gregory of the American Museum of Natural History has recently removed the chief cause of worry from the
monkey's chest. His recent book, Theory of the Development of Man From Fish, essays to prove that the human is
of piscatory origin. We wonder if his main arguments are the way many of us look, and the manner in
which we take the bait. But let the coconut theory take a back seat.

(Continued on page 6)

(Item of interest or otherwise appearing in the college press).

Mercer University: To quote, “Probably the most revolutionary reform in the history of the school was enacted—when the student body—adopted
measures to regulate the time and manner of election of student officers.” This change, briefly summarized, is: Open politics to
a certain degree not permitted before, a certain day to be set apart as election day and all candidates to
be voted upon at that time, this change will include all elective positions within the student body, a committee to
be appointed, of faculty members and students, to govern the election, voters registration lists to be used, and also a
preferential ballot substituted for the odd scraps of paper. Of peculiar interest is the statement, “Only 35 students attended the
meeting, but, since the student body has no definite organization, this number constituted a quorum.”

The Daily Lariat of Baylor University calls attention to the fact, in a recent edition of that publication, that those
who make the best grades are not always the same types of persons. We read: Two married women who make
biscuits and beds after school hours, a freshman who commutes twice daily to Oklahoma City, and a wearer of a
Phi Beta Kappa key who dates and plays bridge too—such in cross-section are some of the lives of the nine
students who received straight “A” scholarship averages last semester.

Editors of the Chameleon staff need not feel so very bad over the review which assailed the last issue of
their publication. They are not alone. The “Richmond Collegian,” of Richmond University comes out with the head-Here is the cleaned
OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

“‘February Messenger Should Have Been Drowned in its Early Youth’—Reviewer.” He continues: “I again find myself crouching foolishly at my
father’s typewriter—this time to review, criticize, and slam the last issue of our own Messenger. Let me say before the
tongues have wagged too far that patriotism alone accounts for this bit; the editor asked me—not I the editor.” And
the gentleman proceeds with his damning business. Supposed item from the N. C. State paper: Coming through with a flash,
(Continued on page 6)

OPEN FORUM

THE IMMINENT CLIMACTERIC

Dear Mr. Editor:

During my four years at Davidson I have ridden over eight thousand and six hundred miles, exclusive of a trip
to New York and intermediate points, at the expense of accommodating motorists—mostly to and from home. Being a student of
moderate means, this saving of around $322.50 (3 3-4c per mile—current railroad rates) has aided me in remaining in college
and has made possible trips which I could not have made at my own expense. Many boys have covered a
far greater mileage and hence, realized a greater saving. With four years of medicine ahead of me I wish to
cover some 15,000 miles more by the aid of the friendly motorist. It does not require excogitation to see that
the friendly motorist is a real philanthropist to the student who must meet his expenses without his father’s checkbook.

But, the passage of laws in some states prohibiting a motorist from picking a person up on the public highway,
the vote of the Carolina Motor Club in favor of the same idea in this state, the occurrence of hold-ups
and thrill murders, the “Passenger Prohibited” sign on the windshield of cars belonging to corporations, the number of unemployed men
and hoboes on the highways instead of along the railroad as of ten years ago, etc. are making rides harder
to get. Salesmen are instructed not to pick up boys because, in case of an accident and injury to the
passenger, the law allows him to bring suit for damages. Many people are unable to tell college boys from those
not attending college when seen away from the vicinity of the institution. Soon, if not during the present session, the
State Legislature will enact laws prohibiting bumming in this state. We must face the situation now and not wait until
too late.

After discussing the matter with a number of students and motorists, I propose that the Students’ Store obtain cards with
something like the following printed on the face thereof:

“In profound appreciation of your indulgence, I hereby waive any statute, stipulation, prerogative or privilege which might otherwise be pleaded
by me against the owner, driver, occupants or any other person in case of accident or injury while riding in
this vehicle.”

Signed _______________

For the reverse side of the card, I suggest something similar to the following:

“The person named on the face of this card is a student in regular standing at Davidson College.”

Signed by the proper official.

Such cards may be secured for $1.85 per thousand, or less in larger quantities, and sold to the students at
a very small cost. They would, to my mind, aid greatly in securing rides if presented to the accommodating motorist.
The idea would spread to other colleges and soon a card would pay the fare for any trip desired and
the fear of hold-ups, hoboes, damage suits, etc., would be dismissed from the mind of the motorist. It is not
my purpose to renew any fight anent bumming with the enemies thereof, but merely to submit the above for consideration.

WANTON WILES

By Dave Anderson

Meet the following requirements: Write 1000 words on nothing, or throw it in any nearby waste basket.

Dear Miss Prude, Just how does a boy feel about giving his fraternity pin? Does it mean anything to him?
Yours, Xie Ti

My dear young lady, you don’t appear so dumb. The best check is this: Find out things on the other
end of the line. If the young man gave his brother a box of dime cigars, he has it bad.
If you don’t like Scotch, look out. Nickel cigars mean love . . . but he is apt to be
fickle. Little Cigars mean true love—but if you don’t like Scotch, look out.

GLEANINGS FROM AN EMPTY BRIEF CASE

Five Davidson citizens were struck with what the doctors called sun stroke last Thursday. The Davidsonian came out on time.
United Coupons went up two-thirds of a point. Rumor has it that if it rains much more, the funds for
the “proposed” swimming pool are going to pay the first installment on a yacht.

THIS IS HOW IT’S BEING DONE

(Model answer to a R. S. V. P. Invitation)

Mr. Percival Shrewsbury II Accepts the kind Invitation of Mr. Rufus Rooks For dinner on the twenty-third Provided Mr. Percival
Shrewsbury II Does not have to dance With Miss Rooks Throughout the entire evening.

NEWS EVENTS

Lord Helper, chief button yanker and official odd sock man for the Davidson laundry (“We return everything including the wrong
things”) is “Retired.” Rumor has it that he will go into the wholesale button business, in spite of a government
offer for tearing up old one dollar bills, and intends to go out in a flurry of BULL.

Contemporary Thought

INTROSPECTION NEEDED

Indiana Daily Student: “School is the bunk. I haven't learned a thing useful to me since I’ve been here.”

The above remark was made recently by a junior student in the University, and is typical of the attitude of
a number of other students in the University. Fortunately for the University, such students are greatly in the minority. The
remark brings out certain significant characteristics, however, of some students who help to make up the personnel of the student
body.

Students who feel this way about school can blame no one but themselves for their failure to learn anything. Abundant
knowledge is here if they would but seek it. Often, it is true, little can be learned solely from attendance
in classes, but much can be learned by research work in the Library. There, books of all descriptions, containing highly
interesting and educational reading, can be found. If a student so desires, he can find material enough on almost any
subject to make himself thoroughly familiar with it.

Students who do nothing in the University but attend classes, and do this only when in the mood, naturally cannot
expect to gain a high degree of education. Often, they will be successful in passing their course, but they are
cheating themselves of the very thing they now are complaining about. They lay the blame for this upon the University,
but if they would examine themselves introspectively, they would find that they alone are at fault.

In many cases, the student who complains that school is the bunk is one that can be found going to
picture shows in the afternoons and nights, or who can be found loafing with “cronies” in various eating establishments near
the campus. He spends little or no time in preparing lessons for the next day, trusting that he will get
by without having to recite. He ridicules other students who spend time on their school work, and is always the
first one to complain when a term paper or a lengthy assignment has to be prepared. Naturally, with this attitude,
it is small wonder that he and others of his type fail in gaining what they presumably desire, and unless
some change is made little hope can be held that the desire for knowledge ever will be completely filled—Indiana Daily
Student.
