February 28, 1929 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three A MOP VIEW SOCIAL NEWS SENIOR HOUSE PARTY (Continued from page 1) wire and air mail he had secured the marvelous array of figures. The following are those taking part in the sideshow and the characters they portrayed: Napoleon, Dr. J. W. MacConnell; Wife of Napoleon, Mrs. J. W. MacConnell; Daniel Boone, Prof. Fleagle; A Policeman, Prof. Blythe; Pocahontas, Miss Steele; Powhatan, Col. Scott; John Smith, Prof. Lilly; Indian Executioners, Riggs McConnell and Dick Flinn. This final show was given a second time, owing to the merit of the production, in the form of a tableau. The crowd broke up then into a grand march led by Miss Virginia Reed of Concord and M. T. Gilmour, president of the Class. Following the leaders were Mrs. W. J. Martin and Dr. Arbuckle representing the social committee of the Faculty, and these in turn were followed by the members of the class and their guests. Through the means of this march everyone found seats at the small tables while toy balloons were being showered upon the assemblage from above. While seated around the tables an entertainment was presented by a group from Charlotte. Miss Malline Lyons gave a demonstration of interpretive dancing. A group of stunts and games were then taken part in by the seniors and guests, among which was a sketch by Dick Flinn in the South Sea Islands, a spelling match and a hurdle race. Following the games a delicious three-course meal was served. The first course consisted of fruit salad daintily arranged in baskets with sandwiches. Following this came pie a la mode carrying out the idea of George Washington and the cherry. Coffee and mints of a green and gold tint were served as the final course. During the courses of the lunch, Miss Mary Brewer, of Salem College and the guest of James G. Johnson, presented a number of readings and impersonations. The program closed with the group of Faculty, Students, and Guests standing and singing O, Davidson and College Ties. The headquarters for the weekend was in the old Sigma Delta house on the fraternity court. From time to time about sixty girls were the guests in that house. The party was a renewal of a custom made many years ago by the faculty when Davidson was much smaller. The girls present for the occasion were entertained in the faculty homes over the night. The following young ladies were present for the Senior House Party: Misses Lottie Wall, Greensboro, N.C.; Priscilla Gregory, Durham, N.C.; Carlotta Satterfield, Durham, N.C.; Nancy Lee Cann, Concord, N.C.; Virginia Reed, Concord, N.C.; Elizabeth Henderson, Charlotte, N.C.; Martha Pickett, Henderson, N.C.C.W.; Bettie Sprunt, Wilmington, N.C.; Elizabeth Darling, Greensboro, N.C.; Elizabeth Gilmour, Wilmington, N.C.; Mary Lou Fuller, Winston-Salem, Salem College; Virginia Long, Ulla, N.C.; Mary Brewer, Salem College; Martha Brown, Mt. Ulla, N.C.; Clarice Lackey, N.C.C.W.; Flora Macdonald Price, Charlotte; Clara Price, Charlotte; Rachel Niblock, Charlotte; Bess Sample, Davidson, N.C.; Elizabeth McCombs, N.C.C.W.; Mary Alice Culp, N.C.C.W.; Clara Gunter, Sarium Springs, N.C.; Evelyn Starr, Rutherfordton, N.C.; Sally Ann Henry, Durham, N.C.; Margaret Adams, Greensboro, N.C.; Welda Williams, Greensboro, N.C.; Lib Simpson, Gastonia; Genevieve Scott, Blackburn, S.C.; Isobel Byrd, Edgefield, S.C.; Kathleen Hollingsworth, Queens; Margaret McCorkle, Asheville; Dorothy Cunningham, Columbia, S.C.; Bell Ward Stowe, Agnes Scott; Emily Harvey, Agnes Scott; Sarah Hargrove, Winthrop; McMothy, Mooresville, N.C.; Currie, Davidson, N.C.; Lotitia Lucey, Salem College; Martin Currie, Wilmington, N.C.; Margaret Christian, Davidson, N.C.; Mary Anne Cannon, Concord, N.C.; Sara Thompson, Fayetteville, N.C.; Armfield, Charlotte; Moore, Charlotte; Douglas Rankin, Charlotte; Irene Annie Brown, Charlotte; Annie Ford, Charlotte; Julia Orr, Charlotte; Catherine Purdy, Charlotte; Sarah Hill, Charlotte; Juanita Sorey, Charlotte; Levinia Long, Concord, N.C.; Sara Thompson, Gastonia; Converse; Agnes Scott; Queens; Agnes Scott.

The American Legion Auxiliary held its regular monthly meeting February 18 at 8:00 o'clock in the Hall. Mrs. John Elkins presided. Reports by the different chairmen were given and plans for making money were discussed. The speaker of the evening was Mr. Cartier, of the Park and Playground Commission of Charlotte. The unit is considering opening a playground for the children of the vicinity at an early date.

Pritchett Puts on Boxing Tournament Captain Pritchett treated the student body to something new and highly entertaining in the form of a boxing tournament, staged Monday afternoon. This was an interesting tournament and included ten well-fought matches, several of which ran into extra rounds. In the scoring, the Sophomores led, five of their men winning bouts; the Freshmen came next with three winners. The Junior Class was third with two winners. The two Seniors entered failed to score. Coaches Younger and Miles were the judges for the tournament, with Captain Elkins acting as referee. R. O. Flinn officiated as timekeeper. Several of the matches proved to be exciting, most of the contestants showed careful preparation and training, and gave some really good exhibitions. Prizes will be awarded to winners after the finals have been held. Results: 119 pound class—L. H. Corbett, Sophomore, won from G. R. Fain, Freshman. 129 pound class—R. L. Johnston, Junior, won from A. S. Smith, Sophomore. R. D. Overman, Sophomore, won from W. L. Lasley, Freshman. F. R. West, Freshman, won from J. F. Preston, Sophomore. H. E. Russell, Junior, won from H. L. Carr, Freshman. 149 pound class—C. W. Kerfoot, Freshman, won from H. A. McAllister, Sophomore. B. W. Lowrance, Sophomore, won from D. P. Anderson, Junior. C. W. Harrison, Freshman, won from J. C. McNeely, Senior.

Rube—“What do you think about this here Evolution?” Yonkel—“It’s a good idea—but can it form?”

Trackmen to Enter Indoor Meet at N. C. The University of North Carolina is holding an indoor meet Saturday night. Davidson is among a number of other Southern colleges who will enter teams in this event. The meet Carolina is holding this year is more or less as an experiment. The Davidson team does not enter with any high expectations but merely because of the fact that it affords the men a means of practice and competition at this season of the year. Due to the unfavorable weather the team has not been able to practice enough to be in anything like good condition. The pole-vaulters are particularly handicapped in that they have never vaulted inside before. The events and the men which Davidson will enter are as follows: 60-yard dash—Currie, Whittle, and possibly Jennings.

J. Alexander Offers Aeronautics Course The first aeronautical scholarship ever offered by an American aircraft concern has been established in the Daniel Guggenheim School of Aeronautics at New York University by J. Don Alexander, president of the Alexander Eaglerock Company. A four-year scholarship in aeronautical engineering or business aeronautics will be awarded this year to the college student who shows the most practical imagination in aeronautics. The winner of the scholarship may choose between the scholarship and an Eaglerock airplane. Two hundred and eleven colleges are represented in the competition. A number of free flying courses and free flight manuals are offered. Prof. Alexander Klemin, a consulting aeronautical engineer for both army and navy during the World War, now head of the Guggenheim School at New York, has become chairman of the Alexander Eaglerock committee on awards. Other members will be Dr. Morgan, dean of the Colorado School of Mines, President...School Jesse Alexander, and Dr. D. B. Harmon, of Colorado College. New York University was chosen after a careful survey of aeronautical schools in American universities. The council and Chancellor K. K. F. Brown have given hearty approval of the scholarship plan of promoting aviation interest in the colleges. More college students are flying today than ever before. Flying clubs are now active in 87 colleges and universities.

Miss Rawls Secured For Summer School

Miss Estelle Rawls, director of all the grammar grade work of the Charlotte schools for the past five years, has been secured by Davidson College to teach a course in the summer school here next session, according to an announcement made here today by Prof. F. L. K. Fleagle, dean of the Davidson Summer School. She will conduct classes on “Teaching of Methods and Supervision.” Obtaining the services of Miss Rawls grew out of a demand for practical work, said Mr. Fleagle, who stated that Davidson has been limiting the summer school to theoretical study. He added that he considered Davidson fortunate in securing the Charlotte director, because of her years of satisfactory experience with the authorities in that city.

Prof. Fleagle also stated that Miss Rawls is a native of South Carolina, a graduate of Winthrop College, and has done post-graduate work at Smith College and the University of Chicago. She taught in the Duke University Summer School last year and will again go to the Methodist institution for the second semester after her work at Davidson during the one-session summer school is completed. The Davidson dean stated that there is a possibility that courses in primary instruction would be added if the demand arose.

W. J. Roddey, Jr., '14, of Columbia, S.C., has been appointed as the public’s member of the board of directors of the South Carolina Cotton Growers’ Association.

60-yard hurdles—Whittle.
440-yard dash—(undecided).
880-yard dash—Lofferty and Goodwin.
Mile run—(undecided).
Pole-vault—Bailey and Smith.
High Jump—Dumas and Gardner.
Shot Put—Leftwich.

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE S & W Cafeterias are catering to you ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

BRICKS they enforce it?”—Life.

DE LUXE ICE CREAM at STUDENT STORE CONES MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM CO. CUPS

Local Students Help Found Musical Frat

Nu Beta Psi Founded in Conjunction With State College Men

Five Davidson College students went to Raleigh last week and co-operated with North Carolina State in founding the honorary musical fraternity, Nu Beta Psi, which has started with chapters at Davidson and North Carolina State. Rapid expansion is expected to include many Southern institutions. Six applications for charters are already in the hands of the officers, it is stated. Leaders declare that the object of the new fraternity is to meet the needs of those colleges and universities which do not have organized courses in musical instruction, with the idea of advancing that art in Southern institutions. One of the most prominent men assisting in the organization was Prof. P. W. Price, director of music at North Carolina State, and also president of the Southern Glee Club Association. His work with the organization showed the definite need.

The Davidson students initiated at Raleigh were B. H. O. Geer, of Charleston, S.C.; Paul B. Fry, of Blacksburg, S.C.; C. C. Orr, Jr., of Asheville; C. J. Albright, of Richmond, Va.; and A. J. Thompson, Jr., of Badin. Mr. Fry was elected vice-president of the national association. Temporary officers were elected by the Davidson chapter, and they expect to extend bids within the next ten days to other Davidson boys to become charter members.

Good News Ohio Wesleyan University

Officials of Ohio Wesleyan here were notified recently by the general education board of New York that $218,000 for additional endowment had been placed to the credit of the university. Additional funds of $182,000 will be given to Ohio Wesleyan by the general education board providing alumni and friends pay pledges which they have made to the development program of the university by June.

Y.M.C.A. Sent Three Deputations Sunday

Last Sunday night three separate deputations were sent out by the local Y.M.C.A. One took charge of the evening services of the First Presbyterian Church at Spencer, N.C. This was led by Jim Brown, member of the Junior Class. John Knox, Bill Weaver, and Jennings each gave a short talk. George Pardington and Frank Pilcher furnished the music. Another deputation was sent to take charge of the Christian Endeavor services at Bethel Church, near Concord. The men taking part in this service were: Sam Coker, Murray Love, Marion Kennedy, and Ed. Close. Gene DuBose and Alfred Jackson furnished special music. Rut Nunan went to Charlotte as a representative of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. and gave a talk at the Charlotte “Y” Boys Meeting which is held every Sunday, and in which Davidson has taken an active part.

MANY SCHOOLS (Continued from page 1)

The affirmative side will be taken by Davidson. After this, the first debate to be held at Davidson will come into action, against the University of Alabama, on March 10. On April 10, a debate in all probability will be held at Concord, N.C., under the auspices of the Concord High School, against Southern College. Carl Pritchett and Ellis Marsh will compose the team for Davidson on both occasions. These debates will conclude the debating schedule for Davidson for the year. Six contests will have been held in the League and two contests outside, by the end of the year; and a loving cup has been offered by the Dixie Debating League as a reward to the team which will have proved itself most efficient and most successful.

DR. BRENIZER (Continued from page 1)

Dr. Brenizer served as an assistant and interne at the Surgeon’s Clinic of the University of Heidelberg and at the University of Vienna. Later he was the surgeon in charge of the American Hospital of Paris. He has been in Charlotte since 1911 as surgeon for the Presbyterian Hospital and the Sanatorium. During the war, he organized the famous “Brenizer unit,” and with three other medical units of its kind, went to France, where he was chief surgeon at Base Hospital No. 6.

Do Not Wait for a Fire to show you that your present Fire Insurance is inadequate. Since 1913 building material costs have increased 97% on brick buildings and 96% on frame buildings. Let us make a free inventory of your property and possessions to determine whether they are adequately insured. No obligation incurred by using our facilities. It's safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Company Insurance Department

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

PARDON OUR MAIDENLY RETICENCE, BUT—

IN CHOOSING a cigarette, we doubt that you will allow yourself to get all hot and bothered. Indubitably you know what mellow mildness you want in a smoke. Suffice it for us to say we think Camel has just that. Filter Camel’s cool fragrance through your smoke-channel, and see how it clicks. After all, nothing takes the place of pleasure.