THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 28, 1929

ATHLETICS

Side Line Shots At the Final Clash of the Season
By P. R. Alderman

Although an important Big Five game remains on the Cats’ schedule in the form of Duke, it is nevertheless true that this season is already the best in three years. The clash with Duke today will witness the fifteenth game with other members of the Big Five since 1926 and, whether the Blue Devils are defeated or not, the Davidson eleven will have the State win of this year as one of the bright lights of the ’29 season.

Another Wildkitten team has played its last game and, although their season was closed by a loss, things seem to be more optimistic as to potential varsity material in the first-year squad than in many years. The season experienced was a 50-50 one, with two wins, two losses, and a tie. It will have to be admitted at any rate that they lost to better teams. One of the main hindrances in the past to developing a strong varsity from good freshmen material has been the failure of the frosh to return after their first year. If this can be remedied this next year and the prospects pass the required amount of work, there is very little to keep Monk and Tex from turning a team that will make a strong bid for championship honors.

As usual, comparative scores can’t be relied upon to any great extent to predict the outcome of the David-Duke game today. The Blue Devils defeated State 19-12 while the Wolfpack bowed to us to the tune of 13-0, which is in favor of the Wildcats. On the other hand, however, Duke trounced Wake Forest 20-0 while the Deacons licked Davidson 6-0.

One of the encouraging things about this year’s fresh team is the possibility they’ve shown of developing a passing combination that will be able to compete on practically an even basis with opponents in the future. With “Buck” Mills on the heaving end and “Skinny” Pierce and T. C. Barrier receiving, there will exist an aerial machine that will need plenty of watching. Passes haven't played quite as large a part in Wildcat losses this year as last; especially in these last games have the Cats shown a fairly successful defense against an aerial attack. Their hardest test will probably be today when they buck up against the heaves of Duke’s well-known halfback, Sam Buie, whose passing ability is one of the main assets of the Blue Devils.

If fair weather prevails this afternoon there should be thrills aplenty for everyone. Both elevens boast speedy backs, whose running has been hampered in the past couple of games by too much rain and who will be ready to make up for some of this ground loss. Unless the field is muddy there will undoubtedly be some aerial journeys in store for the old pigskin also. The Wildcats will be fighting with extra vigor today to balance up the won and loss column for the season while the Blue Devils will be striving with double energy for a win to keep their slate in the state clean. They have downed State and Wake Forest and should Davidson receive the same treatment only Carolina would remain to keep the championship away from Duke, leaving the latter second-place without question.

SAM BUIE
One of the stars of the Methodist backfield, whose accurate passes will be noted at the game this afternoon.

Blue Devil Tackle

CAPTAIN HENRY KISTLER
Henry Kistler, 190-pound tackle and leader of the Duke Blue Devils, who will take his eleven on Richardson Field today against the Wildcats in an effort to keep a clean record among Big Five Teams in the State.

Monday and Tuesday, December 2 and 3
“ILLUSION”
With Buddy Rogers and Nancy Carroll

Wednesday and Thursday, December 4 and 5
“MARIANNE”
With Marion Davis

Davidson Theatre

Friday, December 6
“RED HOT RHYTHM”
With Alan Hale

Saturday, December 7
“RETURN OF SHERLOCK HOLMES”
With Clive Brooks

ATHLETES TO BE AWARDED TROPHIES
(Continued from page 1)
proves himself to be the bestAll-round gymnastic performer in an indoor competition to be held. Another will be given to the one who is most talented in shooting basketball goals. The Richardson cup, donated by Lunsford Richardson, of Greensboro, is to be claimed by the student who shows the greatest physical improvement and highest development during the year. Measurements have been made of those entering their field and another measurement will be taken in the spring to determine the improvement. Varsity golfers and novices each have a cup to strive for, and varsity tennis players and those who are striving to become such have cups to attract their attention. Class presidents have been asked to assemble teams in football, volleyball, basketball, track, and baseball, if possible, and Capt. Pritchett will present a plaque to the winning class. This plaque will have the name of the winning class engraved upon it, and will rotate from year to year.

BILL MURRAY

Bill Murray, 175-pound halfback, whose work has been outstanding this year.

Kitten Eleven Bows To Duke Frosh Team

The Duke Blue Imps handed out a 26 to 6 defeat to the Davidson Wildkittens at Durham last Friday. The weather was very cold and the play of both teams was handicapped by sleet and ice. The ice did much to break up the passing of both teams, but it was by the overhead route that the Kittens succeeded in putting their tally. A long heave from Buck Mills to Barrier was the lone scoring play. The Imps showed a strong team in every department and held the Freshman running attack well in check during most of the game. In the meantime, they succeeded in putting over four touchdowns, one of which was the result of a blocked punt. The N. C. State Wolflets trimmed the Davidson Fresh earlier in the season, thus giving the Kittens two losses and no wins.

DAVIDSON TO MEET DUKE

(Continued from Page 1)

Day. Furthermore, both clubs have comparatively good records to date. Davidson has defeated such representative teams as The Citadel and N. C. State. Against a great Army team, the Wildcats made a most impressive showing in the eyes of the nation by holding them to a comparatively small score. Despite the numerous defeats at the hands of powerful Eastern teams, Duke has a record that is not to be laughed at. Her timely defeat of L. S. U. attracted much attention as well as upset the dope bucket. In addition, she has on her belt the scalps of Wake Forest and N. C. State. Despite the fact that the dope points slightly to Duke, not one Wildcat follower will admit the superiority of the Blue Devils. In addition to the great rivalry between the 'Cat and the Blue Devil, the contest will have a decided bearing on the state title. Should Davidson emerge victor, she would be in an excellent position to tie for second place with Duke, it being generally conceded that they will be beaten by Carolina. A victory over the 'Cats would put Duke into its final game with the Tar Heels on an even footing. In this case, the Davidson-Duke game would be the deciding factor in the title chase.

Why take Unnecessary Risks?

While traveling, baggage is often damaged or lost through Fire, Theft, Wreck. The Pullman ticket states the Company is not responsible for baggage in its cars. Transportation companies are liable, limitedly, only while it is in their custody. Personal Effects Insurance safeguards your belongings year-round at small cost. Telephone, call, or write for information. It's safer to have insurance—and not need it.

Independence Trust Co.
Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Half Soles - Heels - WRIGHT
Shoe Repairing As It Should Be Done

ACTUAL PRICES IF TICKET RATE TAKEN ADVANTAGE OF:
CLEAN CHARLOTTE, N. C., Bob Turner, 31 Georgia $1.04 5 - 415 ING CO.

SEE - HEAR
The New VICTOR MICRO-SYNCHRONOUS RADIO AND RADIOLA
See Them At PARKER GARDNER CO.
16 West Trade St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Victor & Brunswick Records - Furniture And Draperies