THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

Davidson Alumnus Wins National Banking Honor

Paul P. Brown, ’03, of Raleigh, is Second Vice-President of American Secretaries’ Association

Among the Davidson College alumni taking a leading role in banking activities is Mr. Paul Paisley Brown, of Raleigh, a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1903. For many years he has been prominent in state circles, serving as secretary of the North Carolina Bankers’ Association, and when this body held their annual meeting last June in Asheville he was re-elected to that office.

However, national recognition has come to this Davidson alumnus. At a recent meeting of the state secretaries’ section of the American Bankers’ Association in San Francisco, Calif., Mr. Brown was chosen second vice-president. The officers of this association progress one step annually, which means that two years hence Mr. Brown will be president of this section.

Mr. Brown came to Davidson from Newton, N. C., in 1901, entering as a member of the junior class. After completing his undergraduate work, he immediately went into the field of banking, and for a long time was connected with the American National Bank in Asheville. For many years he has been a resident of Raleigh, which is the headquarters for his work as state secretary of the association.

In June, 1928, Mr. Brown returned to Davidson for a visit for the first time since he had graduated. He said that he was coming back to see the Davidson of today and decide whether he wanted to send his son here. He was convinced, for in a recent letter to the alumni office he intimated his intention of enrolling his boy within a few years.

1928 Graduate Now Mayor of Home Town

Perhaps the most signal honor which has come to any recent graduate of Davidson College was that conferred upon Joe D. Welborn, of the class of 1928, when he was elected this summer as mayor of his hometown, Pelzer, S. C. Officials of that locality declare that he is the youngest mayor ever to hold such an important office there, and it is doubtful if few people in the United States have held public positions so quickly after completing their college courses.

No information has been received at Davidson as to the new policies which are to be enacted under his administration, or whether he will attempt any changes there. The results of so young a mayor will be watched with interest. His friends believe that he will make an excellent executive, for his work at Davidson stamped him as one who would succeed.

Over Fifty Davidson Men At Chapel Hill

Fifty-one former Davidson students are now residing at Chapel Hill, the seat of the University of North Carolina. Some of them are connected with the University in the capacity of teaching, many of them are doing graduate work, while still others are completing their undergraduate courses after leaving Davidson. The complete list of men there are given below, with their addresses, this list being furnished to the alumni office by John M. Andrew, '28, in his second year of medical school. It is given according to classes.

1879—Dr. M. C. S. Noble.
1881—Prof. A. C. McIntosh.
1899—Prof. I. C. Griffin.
1907—Coach Robert A. Fetzer.
1916—Prof. R. W. Morrison.
1919—Prof. C. B. Robson.
1921—Prof. R. A. McPheeters.
1923—Harry K. Russell.
1925—John B. Gallant, 303-B E. Rosemary Lane; J. A. Thompson, 211 Vance Street.
1927—W. T. Covington, 215 Henderson St.; W. O. Puckett, 209 Smith Bldg.
1928—J. M. Covington, 405 Grimes Bldg.; F. B. Kuykendall, 412 Mangum Bldg.; P. R. Mauldin, 108 Hillsboro St.; D. R. McEachern, 405 Grimes Bldg.; Robert L. McMillan, 11 Pettigrew Bldg.; Henry T. Powell, 104 Manly Bldg.; A. S. Rose, 108 Hillsboro St.; S. W. Vance, 414 Grimes Bldg.; T. C. Watkins; W. E. Wilkinson, 303 Old West Bldg.
1929—W. H. Flythe, 108 Hillsboro St.; H. C. Harrell, 108 Hillsboro St.; D. F. Hall, Pi Kappa Phi; D. F. Martin, Jr., 209 Smith Bldg.; W. B. McQueen, Jr., 215 Henderson St.; T. M. Northrop, 213 Ruffin Bldg.; C. T. Smith, 117 S. College St.; R. G. Walser, Phi Kappa Sigma; Jas. W. Williams, Pi Kappa Phi.
1930—W. R. Hooks, 213 Aycock Bldg.; J. L. McNair, 34 Steele Bldg.; J. C. Williams, Delta Theta Pi.
1931—Chas. P. Coble, care Mrs. Jack Andrews; G. S. Dickson, 210 Pittsboro St.; Chas. H. Farrell, Archer House; Chas. A. Glenn, 314 Lewis Bldg.; P. W. Glidewell, Jr., 229 E. Franklin St.; K. D. Hampton, 10 Vance Bldg.; C. B. McKethan, Chi Phi; Hector McLean, 34 Steele Bldg.; R. S. Overman, care Mrs. Giles; Phillip Padgett, Box 14; F. M. Scroggs; T. L. Umphelt, 307 Graham Bldg.; G. L. Weeks, 34 Steele Bldg.
1932—I. C. Griffin, Jr., 223 Vance St.; L. D. Hooks, 213 Aycock Bldg.; S. H. Upshaw, 3 Steele Bldg.

A Freshman was a chemist,
That Freshman is no more,For what he thought was H2O Was H2SO4. As we see ’em: These Frestititen are alike in many disrespects.

Willborn’s is that of Harold D. Burke, of the class of 1926, who was elected to the state legislature two years after he graduated from Davidson. Mr. Burke has already served in one session of this legislative body. Close friends call him “Senator” Burke now, and perhaps the classmates of Mr. Welborn will write him, using the salutation, “His Honor.”

J. C. S. Hicks, Successful Bank Official, Honored Davidson Alumnus Chosen as Assistant Secretary-Treasurer of Cotton Growers Association

Charles Speers Hicks, ’07, of Erwin, N. C., has been elected by the board of directors to become assistant secretary and treasurer of the North Carolina Cotton Growers Association, and has gone to Raleigh where he has begun his duties in this office. The directors were careful in their selection of a man for this position, for in reporting Mr. Hicks’ choice, they stated in their official organ: “In making this selection it was the opinion of the board of directors that this position should be filled by a banker of some reputation who not only had the confidence of the banking institutions of the state, but that he should also be from the cotton belt, thoroughly familiar with the cotton farmers’ problems, and with a sympathetic attitude toward the cooperative marketing movement.”

Mr. Hicks was originally from Wilmington and started his banking career with the Murchison National Bank of that city, and was later connected with the Wilmington Savings and Trust Company. At the early age of twenty-one he was made cashier of the Bank of Whiteville, later going to Harnett county in 1910, where he has been actively engaged in banking at Dunn and at Erwin. For the past several years Mr. Hicks has been active vice-president of the Bank of Harnett at Erwin, and also vice-president of the Commercial Bank at Dunn. In addition to his banking activity, Mr. Hicks has found time to take a leading part in church movements, and for a long period of years has been superintendent of the Presbyterian Sunday School at Erwin.

Billy—“I have no more faith in women.”
Chilly—“Why not?”
Billy—“I put a matrimonial advertisement in the paper and one of the replies was from ‘Red.’”

Eyes of glass,
Teeth of clay—
Peroxide blond—
She’s phoney that way.

SHOP REPAIRING WRIG CLEANING “Honor to Whom Honor Is Due” GIVE US A TRIAL HT CLEANING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Bob Turner, 31 Georgia DYEING PRESSING

During the recent Home-Coming celebration of the state of North Carolina, The Raleigh News and Observer carried a special section devoted to photographs and messages from distinguished out-of-state North Carolinians. Among the number were Dr. Henry Louis Smith (left) and Dr. Ben R. Lacy (right), president of Washington and Lee and Union Theological Seminary, respectively, both of them alumni of Davidson. Through the courtesy of The News and Observer, all photos on this page are used today.

Alumni Deaths

Dr. W. S. Boyd, ’82
Information was received at Davidson this week of the death of Dr. William Sims Boyd, aged 68, graduate of Davidson in the class of 1882. Death occurred at his home near Kingstree, S. C. Dr. Boyd entered Davidson from Salter’s Depot, in South Carolina, and after completing his work here went to Johns Hopkins for two years, transferring to the University of Maryland his senior year, where he obtained his medical degree. He had been a practicing physician for many years in Jersey City, N. J., and in South Carolina.

Dr. F. S. Robinson, ’92
The president of the Jacksonville (Fla.) Alumni Association has notified the alumni secretary of the death of Dr. F. S. Robinson, of the class of 1892, death occurred at his home in Jacksonville, Fla., on October 9th. Practically no information is given in the catalogue about his life, except that he was a dentist.

“Do you ever change your mind?”
“Never,” declared Senator Sorghum. “But the public shifts its sentiments. And I don’t feel morally compelled to go on forever shouting the same old stuff!”—Washington Star.

Births

1918—Mr. and Mrs. W. N. Mebane announce the birth of a son, William Nelson, III, on September 30th.
1921—Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Beaty announce the birth of a daughter on October 28th.

Cumberland hails a new method of instruction. Go to classes and enjoy good radio music.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Weight to suit you in HANES. SATISFIES YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED SHIRTS and SHORTS ATHLETICS and RIBS Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon. White, solid colors or pastel trims. Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War” belt in checks and fancy materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and P. H. HANES KNITTING CO. Winston-Salem, N. C.