THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1929

BROHARD JOHNSTON HEEFNER WHITTLE

MEMBERS OF DELTA CIRCLE OF OMICRON DELTA KAPPA

Twenty-Five Juniors In Advanced R.O.T.C. Work
Drill and Class Work Include Most Practical Military Subjects

There are twenty-five Juniors taking the advanced course in R.O.T.C. work. Their duties in drill include the daily routine of First Sergeants, Platoon Sergeants, and a Battalion Sergeant Major. In their classes, which assemble once every week, they cover during the year Map Reading, Military Sketching, Drill and Command, Machine Gun, 37mm Gun, Trench Mortar, Combat Principles of Rifle Sections and Platoons.

The first two years of R.O.T.C. work is known as the Basic Course; the last two years, the Advanced Course. The Juniors, who are taking the first year of the advanced course, after completing that year, attend the C.M.T.C. during the summer, before their Senior year. Most of the Juniors will go to Fort McClellan at Anniston, Ala. Some few select individuals will go to the Chemical Warfare Training School in Maryland. Those attending Fort McClellan will start June 5th, and will finish July 15. Their training includes physical training, first aid, hygiene, supply and administration, ceremonies and inspection, drill and command, marksmanship, musketry and combat firing, scouting and patrolling.

The following are the Juniors taking the advanced course, and their positions:
Cadet First Sergeants: Brock, T., Company “C”; Rusk, D., Company “B”; Bird, A. R., Company “A”; Covington, H. S., Company “D”; Paul, J. L., Band.
Cadet Battalion Sergeant Major: Meacham, J. S.
Cadet Sergeants: Harris, B. R., Preston, J. F., Smith, J. L., Russell, R. D., Brock, J. L., Jackson, A. R., Wilson, R. G., McCutchan, J. W., Drake, B. M., Kraemer, C. E., Sisson, C. A., Bost, H. F., Sugg, W. G., Thompson, W. C., Hall, R. S., Lowrance, B. R., Severance, J. L., Chamness, F. E., Mixson, H.

Moffett Addresses Student Volunteers

Dr. L. I. Moffett, of Kiangyin, China, who is a brother of Dr. H. M. Moffett, the college pastor, spoke to a joint meeting of Student Volunteers and members of the Ministerial Band at the last meeting. Doctor Moffett’s talk was on the existing conditions in China at the present time. He told of the many opportunities for advancement that awaited the right type of men and showed very clearly that the world needs more and better missionaries. Doctor Moffett, having been a missionary to China for about twenty-five years, is very well posted on the missionary work. His talk was very interesting and interpreted the missionary situation very clearly.

The members of the Davidson Student Volunteer Organization, under Bill Belk’s lead, recently collaborated in getting out the “Volunteer,” the magazine published by the North Carolina members of the National Student Volunteer Organization. The Davidson Volunteer Band has charge of mimeographing the magazine and sending it to all North Carolina members. Bill Belk is the business manager of the magazine.

Week-End Guests

The Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity had as their guests the past week-end the following: Miss Brantley Nichols and Miss Ida Bell of Charlotte, Miss Lucy Martin Currie, Miss Carolina Moffett, and Miss Fredericka Hallum of Davidson, Miss Lura Abiecrombie of Greensboro, and Miss Edith Venroefen of Copenhagen, Denmark. Mr. D. G. Wilson visited the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity over the week-end and the Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity had as their guests Mr. Charles Hunt, Miss Christine Chamness, and Miss Rosa Currie.

Campus Football Is Gathering Interest

Led by a galaxy of brilliant stars such as Johnston, Moore, Montgomery, “Whiz” Miller, Pridgen, McGavock, and many others, campus football is in its glory and day by day is becoming one of the foremost minor sports at Davidson. Each afternoon one can see two stalwart lines composed mostly of freshmen, who have the dirty work to do, charging into each other while some senior or junior, a hero of former struggles, hurls the ball to some waiting arms. It is no uncommon sight to see Johnston leaping high into the air to take an almost impossible pass, or to see the fleet little Johnny Moore circle the end like a rabbit. “Whiz” Miller can also be counted on the side of the stars. Each afternoon has its hero and its goat. Such for instance as when Gardner took a thirty-yard pass in the final minute of a hectic struggle to break the 112-112 tie; or when some freshman picked up the ball and raced to the wrong goal line. Interdormitory and inter-fraternity games are quite common, the lid being prized off this year by a thrilling struggle between the Betas and K.A.’s, in which the former came out on the large end of a 12-6 score, led by the great work of Johnston.

TAP DAY EXERCISES (Continued from page 1)

Candidates had been officially pledged and would be initiated at an early date. All of the men elected to membership in O.D.K. are leaders of prominence on the Davidson campus. E. S. Heefner is Varsity Cheer Leader for this year and is President of The Reporters Club. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. W. R. Hill is Cadet-Major of the R.O.T.C. Unit and Business Manager of the 1929 “Quips and Cranks.” Hill is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. F. W. Johnston isCaptain of both varsity basketball and varsity tennis. He belongs to Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. A. H. Whittle is Judge of the Court of Control for the current year and is Captain of the varsity track team. Whittle is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. The total membership of Delta Circle, the Davidson chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, is a combination of students and faculty. The student members are Z. V. Long, F. R. Brown, C. R. Pritchett, T. W. Brohard, G. M. Pritt, W. B. McGuire, W. R. Hill, A. H. Whittle, F. W. Johnston, E. S. Heefner. Members in the faculty are: Prof. A. Currie, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Prof. E. J. Erwin, Prof. H. E. Fulcher, Dr. W. R. Grey, Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, Mr. F. L. Jackson, Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. C. M. Richards, Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Prof. W. A. Williams, Dr. W. L. Lingle and Coach W. L. Younger. The order of O. D. K., which is one of the highest ranking organizations recognizing student leadership, was founded at Washington and Lee University on December 3, 1914. Delta Circle at Davidson has for years been recognized as one of the most outstanding of all the chapters, and her record of service has been conspicuous.

WILDCATS AND WOLFPACK
(Continued from page 1)

Beginning to end, and is replete with thrills. The large number of tie engagements is evidence that the teams are generally rather evenly matched. The probable line-up of the two teams follows:

Davidson Position N. C. State
Brock (C) ------- LE Gardner
Raker ----------- LT Lepo (C)
DeCamp --------- LG Vann
Milton ---------- C Stout
Mathis ---------- RG May
Covington ------- RT Smathers
Proctor --------- RE Jorden
Parrish --------- QB Dellinger
McGalli --------- LH Melton
Fraley ---------- RH Wright
Johnson --------- FB

Battalion Reviewed By Major Duval, Wednesday
Inspects Equipment, Classes and General Condition of Military Department

Major W. E. Duvall, of this Corps Area, reviewed the battalion during the regular drill formation, yesterday. In addition to observing the drill formation, Major Duvall has attended class periods of the various sections, both yesterday and today. The drill field, facilities for the various phases of Military Training and Tactics, and the condition of supplies were also inspected. This inspection is made every fall, by provision of the War Department, in order to determine whether or not the local Reserved Officers Training Corps Unit shall be recommended for special governmental inspection in the spring. The purpose of the spring inspection is to award, or not award, as the case may be, the Distinguished Rating. It will be recalled that the Davidson Unit has received this honor for the past three years.

Literary Societies
Eumenean

An outstanding feature on the programs of both literary societies at their meetings on November 5 was a debate. The Eumenean Society, however, devoted a large part of its program to the installation of officers. These officers for the next quarter are as follows: President, R. T. Nunan; Vice-president, J. F. Preston; Secretary, J. D. McFayden; Treasurer, A. R. Jackson; and Reviewer, E. K. Marsh. The topic for debate at the meeting, Resolved: “That the United States should recognize the Soviet Government of Russia.” W. A. Rembert and B. B. Taylor defended the affirmative with vigor, while W. B. Ward and E. A. Hancock proclaimed the negative side with equal vivacity.

Philanthropic

The Philanthropic members exercised their ability on the subject, Resolved: “That Davidson College should be co-educational.” Although seeming to be of light nature, this debate caused a considerable amount of weighty argument. A. Warren and his colleague declared themselves heartily in favor of including the fair sex in the Wildcat ranks, but S. C. Coker and H. E. Russell were of different opinion. The installation of officers will be held at the next meeting.

Figure This Out
“whatchagotna packidge?”
“sabook.”
“wassanaimubitt?”
“sadickshunery. fullanaims. wife’s gon- nagetta plecedoganagotta gettanaim ferim.”—The Sou’wester.

Voice on Phone: “Art Buggs is ill today and unable to leave his bed for classes. He wishes me to notify you.”
Prof.: “All right, who is this?”
Same Voice: “This is my roommate.”

Blind Flying!
Three new G-E contributions to the conquest of the air

LINDBERGH, flying blind much of the way, hit Ireland “on the nose” as he winged toward Paris. Now, as an aid to air navigation comes the magneto compass, a product of General Electric research, which gives pilots a navigating instrument of extraordinary accuracy. Meanwhile, two other General Electric contributions to aviation have been developed—the electric gasoline gauge and the radio echo altimeter. The ordinary altimeter shows only height above sea level. The radio echo altimeter warns the pilot of his actual distance above ground or water by flashing green, yellow, and red lights on the instrument board. Every year hundreds of college-trained men and women enter the employment of General Electric. Research, similar to that which developed “eyes” for blind flying, is one of the many fields of endeavor in which they play an important part.

JOIN US IN THE GENERAL ELECTRIC HOUR, BROADCAST EVERY SATURDAY AT 9 P.M., E.S.T. ON A NATION-WIDE N.B.C. NETWORK

GENERAL @ ELECTRIC