THE DAVIDSONIAN

BIG BOXING TOURNAMENT TO BE HELD SOON

CAT TRAX As They Follow the Red and Black By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Six games this week and all on foreign soil is a tough outlook for any basketball club, but we don’t
see how the Wildcats can fail to do better than break even. If they can just hold the pace they
have set for the last two weeks, the prospect is very bright indeed. Those freshmen are so erratic and uncertain
that we dare not make many predictions about them. A few more games like that one with Duke and we
will be ready to quit under the strain. Such a thrill as that one gave has seldom been experienced around
here. The fact that Werber and Jankoskie were missing that night is not an alibi. The Cats were out for
blood and they got a-plenty. Any team in the state would have bowed to the Red and Black on that
occasion. The best part of it all was the way in which the student body backed its team. It just
goes to show that in a crisis the old-time spirit and fight gets the better of every blooming one of
us. We wish that more big games could be brought to the hill. The incentive to win is so much
greater when a college of wide reputation and standing is the visitor. As far as the students are concerned this
is going to be a great spring for Davidson athletic teams.

For some reason, the Wildkittens haven't been able to get going this year. There seems to be very good potential
material on the squad, but the boys don’t know how to play together so well. The Oak Ridge quint made
them look bad, and while we admit that the Cadets had an excellent team, still the yearlings should have done
better. Hutaff, Lane, and Milton seem to be the best shots. It’s hard to tell about varsity prospects though.

Well, for once we've got to make a real bow to Joe Johnston and his orphan wrestlers from up Barium
way. That crew of future Davidsonians certainly put the cover on the freshman grapplers. “Pie” Conway was the only Kitten
able to do much. By the way, Conway is going to make a mighty good man for next year’s varsity
unless we miss a guess. The boy is good. Coach Myles has no reason to be discouraged over his team’s
defeat at the hands of V. M. I. This same Cadet team licked West Point pretty decisively earlier in the
year. Most of the bouts went the limit without a fall, and that is something to be proud of from
Davidson’s viewpoint. The Cats have a good squad, and they will be heard from before it's all over. A dispatch
from Lexington reads: “The Wildcats presented a strong, well-coached team, however, and kept the Cadets from registering a fall.”

We heard a strong Davidson alumnus say during the past week that everybody was as strongly behind the college teams
as ever, but that it was getting mighty disheartening to see the same old story on the football field—the Wildcats
fighting their hearts out only to lose in the end. Well, all of that is very true, and the only
solution is better-trained athletes before they enter college. Lots of good men can be induced to come here if the
proper influence is exerted. It calls for college work and alumni work combined.

Fighting Wildcats Beat Duke Blue Devil Quint To Upset Big Five Dope

Cats Grab Early Lead And Are Never Headed

THRILLING GAME

Packed Gym Sees Younger’s Team Lick Methodists

Smashing all predictions into bits, the Wildcat charges of Monk Younger won a brilliant victory over Duke University’s Blue Devils
here last Thursday night. A cheering mob of spectators filled Alumni Gymnasium to capacity. It was the largest crowd of
recent years, and it was about the most astounded crowd.

Spotted as many as fifteen points in some quarters and doped to drop the game under any conditions, the furious
and determined assault of the Wildcats swept the visitors off their feet, and elevated the Red and Black standard to
a high place in state basketball circles. The Blue Devils played up to their usual form but they were out-smarted,
out-fought, and out-played by a snarling pack of Cats that would not be denied.

Captain Chandler, of Duke, dropped in the first basket of the game, but Captain Pritchett, of Davidson, soon matched him
with a pair of foul shots, and from this point the Cats were never headed. At half time they had
a lead of twelve points, the score being 30-18 at this juncture. The Devils opened a desperate rally in the
second half and pulled up to within seven points of the locals, but the Cats staved off any further progress.
Duke's guarding was excellent during the first part of this final period. Toward the end, however, they seemed demoralized to
some extent and were taking long chances on everything. The guarding of Bill Goodson and Frontis Johnson was a marvel
to behold, and these two youngsters were responsible for holding the Devils in check on many occasions. Pritchett and Calhoun,
besides shooting with deadly accuracy, played great defensive games, snagging enemy passes and streaking down the floor to sink many
crips. Rusk, although greatly outclassed in the matter of getting the tipoff, his opponent being the lanky Croson, six foot
six center, showed a good game and found time to pile up eight markers for the evening. Croson was Duke's
best bet. He scored seventeen points all told, his great height enabling him to reach far above the other players
and tip shot after shot into the net. Rogers accumulated fourteen units to be next high scorer.

When the final gun sounded pandemonium broke loose. The throng of excited fans went wild. Bells began to toll, auto
horns sounded, and six hundred student voices blended in a mighty shout of victory. The impossible had happened. To the
victor belongs the laurels, and never were they more clearly earned than last Thursday night. It was a Davidson night.

Lineup and summary:

Davidson fg fp tp
Pritchett, f (C) 3 6 12
Calhoun, f 6 0 12
Rusk, c 3 2 8
Johnson, g 3 1 7
Goodson, g 2 2 6
Total 18 11 47

Duke fg fp tp
Chandler, f (C) 0 2 2
Council, f 2 0 4
Rogers, f 6 2 14
Croson, c 8 1 17
Total 16 5 37

“DRUGS” “Prescriptions”

SALE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS Palmolive Shaving Cream 35c Palmolive Talcum 25c Total 60c For Both 35 cents

Make Our Store Your Store WHITE DRUG COMPANY "SODA" “Drug Sundries”

Tilson’s Freshmen Check Pair of Wins

Wingate College and V. P. I. Fresh Defeated

The Davidson Frosh, on the afternoon of February 2, stepped to a close victory over the first-year men of V.
P. I. This was Davidson's first contest with a college freshman five and found the Wildkittens well able to take
care of themselves. The score of the tilt was 24-18. In the initial period, the little Gobblers found the basket
early and jumpedinto the lead without apparent effort. Half-time found V. P. I. leading by an eighteen to eleven score.
In the second half, the freshmen played a speedy brand of ball, and while holding their opponents scoreless, amassed thirteen
points to claim victory over the visiting Virginians. The kittens' winning points were registered in the closing minutes of play.
Hill, Gobbler right guard, played a fast floor game and with seven points to his credit led his teammates in
the scoring. Mathis and Martin were outstanding on the Davidson quint. The latter was high score man of the contest
with eight points. Summary:

Davidson fg fp tp
Hutaff, sf 1 0 2
Kang 0 0 0
Milton 0 1 1
Kraan 1 0 2
Mathis, g 0 1 1
Gilbert, g 0 0 0
Martin, f 0 1 1
Totals 2 3 7

V. P. I. fg fp tp
Allebaugh, f 0 0 0
Groson, g 2 3 7
RO 1 1 3
HANIOV 1 0 2
Totals 4 4 12

Referee: Faul.

VIRGINIA CADETS CONQUER MATMEN BY SCORE OF 18-8

Lexington Men Cop Six Out of Eight Bouts

COWAN WINS

Hill Wins on Time—Virginians Not Able to Get Falls—Close Matches

Saturday the V. M. I. grapplers took six hard-fought matches from Davidson, while the Cats were winning two and taking
the short end of an 18-8 count. Cowan, the Wildcat representative in the 115-pound class threw Forsyth, of the Cadets,
with a crotch hold after the match had gone three minutes and seventeen seconds. Captain Tom Hill accounted for the
rest of Davidson's points by getting a time advantage of a minute and thirty-five seconds over Parker. Herriot fought long
and hard with Nicholls to lose by a forty-five second advantage after extra periods, while Flythe lost to Thompson by
one minute and one second. Christenbury, wrestling in the 165-pound class, was nosed out by McCrary who got a time
advantage of two minutes and fourteen seconds. Talmon got the best of Brock, the Wildcat 155-pound man, with an advantage
of some three minutes and forty-five seconds. Warren fought hard against Smith, but was outweighed eighty pounds and lost by
three minutes and fifty-two seconds. Captain Field of V. M. I. outweighed Brown of the Wildcat aggregation, and amassed a
time advantage of seven minutes and forty-three seconds. The fights of Nicholls and Herriot, and of Flythe and Thompson were
about as evenly matched as anyone could wish. They were both anybody's fight from beginning to end. Christenbury got the
better of his man, McCrary, during the first part of the match, but had hard luck later, and had to
fight hard to keep from being thrown. Warren showed up well against a man who outweighed him by as big
a margin as Smith, and only by skillful wrestling was he able to keep his shoulder off of the mat.
The regular Cadet 115-pound man was out, but the way that Cowan was handling everyone that night probably made him
glad that he was. The Wildcats brought a strong, well-coached team to Virginia. The summary:

115-pound class: Cowan (Davidson) threw Forsyth with a crotch hold, Time, 3:17.
125-pound class: Thompson (V. M. I.) defeated Flythe. Time advantage 1:01.
135-pound class: Captain Field (V. M. I.) defeated Brown. Time advantage 7:43.
145-pound class: Nicholls (V. M. I.) defeated Herriot. Time advantage 0:45. The match went into extra periods.
155-pound class: Talman (V. M. I.) defeated Brock. Time advantage 3:47.
165-pound class: McCrary (V. M. I.) defeated Christenbury. Time advantage 2:14.
175-pound class: Captain Hill (Davidson) defeated Parker. Time advantage 1:35.
Unlimited class: Smith (V. M. I.) defeated Warren. Time advantage 3:53.

Referee: Heflin (V. M. I.)

The Davidson Frosh avenged their former defeat on their home court at the hands of Wingate College by taking the
latter into camp 30 to 26 on the enemy’s floor. The game was close and well-played throughout, and was devoid
of any outstanding stars. The Wildkittens’ team work was good, and their defense was strong at times. They encountered strong
opposition at the hands of the hard-fighting junior collegians. Milton, of Davidson, was high-point man of the evening, ringing up
14 points. Hutaff and Mathis played good floor games, the latter being especially gifted in the art of causing the
opponents to miss the basket on their attempts. The pass-work of both teams was good, and both were strong on
defense. Gaddy, Triplett, and Griffin accounted for Wingate’s points. Jones, of Wingate, and Gilbert, of the Red and Black, both
put up great games at guard.

Summary:

Davidson (30) Wingate (26)
Hutaff (5) Baker (1) Right Forward
Martin (5) Griffin (6) Left Forward
Milton (14) Gaddy (8) Center
Mathis (6) Triplett (7) Right Guard
Gilbert Jones (4) Left Guard

Substitutions: Davidson, Lane for Milton; Wingate, Burris for Griffin. Referee: Benton.

Hutaff Captain of Wildkitten Quintet

At a meeting of the Freshman basketball squad last Friday night just before the Oak Ridge game, J. B. Hutaff,
of Fayetteville, N. C. was elected captain of the 1929 “Wildkitten” quintet. Hutaff attended Fayetteville High School for two years
going from there to Darlington Military Academy at Rome, Georgia. During his two years at Darlington he was a regular
member of the basketball team and in his second year was made captain. Captain Hutaff, who plays forward on the
Freshman team, has made himself conspicuous all season with his stellar brand of ball. His handling and passing coupled with
his ability as a guard mark him as a strong defensive player.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers
BARNETT and COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

EDDIE CANTOR
Premier American comedian starring in the glorious new production, “Whoopee.”
© P. Lorillard Co., Est.1760

“Folks, how can I make Whoopee up here ...when down in front the ‘coughers’ are whooping it up? It embarrasses
him as much as it annoys his neighbors.

“Maybe the audience would be grateful if I stepped to the footlights some night and voiced the above protest about
the ‘coughing chorus’ down in front.

“But that wouldn't be kind and it wouldn't be just. The cougher doesn’t cough in public on purpose. He can’t
help it.

“What he needs, to avoid that throat tickle, is an introduction to OLD GOLDS.” (SIGNED) Eddie Cantor

Why not eat a chocolate...light an Old Gold...and enjoy both!

OLD GOLD Cigarettes are blended from HEART-LEAF tobacco, the finest Nature grows. Selected for silkiness and ripeness from the heart
of the tobacco plant. Aged and mellowed extra long in a temperature of mid-July sunshine to ensure that honey-like smoothness.

On your Radio... OLD GOLD PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR... Paul Whiteman, King of Jazz, and his complete OLD GOLD hour every
Tuesday from 9 to 10 P. M., Eastern Standard Time, over the entire network of Columbia Broadcasting System.
