Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN February 28, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy $3.00 per Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m. Anonymous articles will
not be published.

Editor-in-Chief W. T. POWELL
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
F. D. MILLER Managing Editor
C. M. GIBSON Managing Editor
R. F. HARRIS Managing Editor
Z. V. TURLINGTON Sports Editor
V. A. CHEEK News Editor
P. B. BANKS Society Editor
D. P. McGEACHY Feature Editor
W. W. WILLIAMS Assistant Editor
J. L. GIBSON Assistant Editor
C. R. McMANAWAY Associate Editor
B. H. McCALL Associate Editor
W. K. CARR Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
L. A. WILLIAMS Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. HENDERSON Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. WATSON Asst. Bus. Mgr.
R. F. HARRIS Circulation Mgr.
H. B. WILLIAMS Subscription Mgr.
H. M. McCALL Solicitor
G. D. McCOY Solicitor
CARL MAJORS Solicitor

SENIOR CLASS OFFICERS
L. A. WILLIAMS President
W. B. WATSON Vice-President
E. S. HENDERSON Secretary-Treasurer

THURSDAY, MARCH 28, 1929

DOCTOR, LAWYER, MERCHANT, CHIEF?
A Vocational Guidance

Just at this time when stress is being laid upon the choice of one’s life work there may be a
monotony caused by frequent repetition of invitations and exhortations to attend the meetings held for the benefit of every college
man and to apply for interviews with these prominent men who are being brought here through the Y. M. C.
A. But when one considers that there are approximately one hundred and fifty men in the student body who are
undecided as to the manner in which they shall spend their lives, and when one surmises that another large group
has stated a preference toward a certain vocation and is wavering between choices, the great importance of the movement may
be recognized.

The Vocational Guidance Institute has come to play a great part in American institutions throughout the country and Davidson’s ranks
with the very best of them. When it is seen that an entire month is devoted to the enterprise, and
when one notes that the foremost men in their respective fields in the South are secured to guide the men
in their considerations, the magnitude of the enterprise is evident. Our purpose in speaking of this movement is to stress
the importance of a whole-hearted response on the part of the student body. Hear these men; confer with them privately;
and let them help each man determine the best use of his life.

PATHWAYS
A tendency to leave the walks and make new paths over the campus on the part of nearly every upperclassman
is proving ruinous to the grass as it is gaining its verdancy. True that the mudwalks are disagreeable during rainy
weather, but new paths should be cut with hesitation and perhaps there might be a disposition to replace the present
pathways with concrete walks—unless there be the fear that the natural beauty of the campus be destroyed. Anyway, those returning
from the evening movie might use the walks instead of widening and deepening the path from the church to Phi
Hall.

THE FACULTY SCORES
Appreciation for the splendid entertainment afforded by the Faculty in honor of the Senior Class and guests last week-end was
voted by the honored group, in the form of a resolution, but we want to express here not only approval
and appreciation but also the hope that the affair be made an annual event—if the Faculty be so disposed. Such
a great success as the affair proved a continuance of the custom and call for a unanimous response by the
underclassmen if they are so favored.

AN AWARD FOR SERVICE
The New York Southern Society has designated Davidson College as one of the fifteen institutions wherein the Algernon Sydney Sullivan
Award established in honor of the Society’s first president, may be made. The award consists of a bronze plaque, a
suitably engraved certificate, and a volume on the life of Mr. Sullivan. It may be bestowed annually upon one man
of the graduating class and those who receive it “shall have demonstrated their worthiness to typify that spirit of brotherly
love which was the cornerstone of the life of Mr. Sullivan.” The object of the New York Southern Society in
establishing this award, which was awarded for the first time at last Commencement, is to perpetuate the influence of a
life which exemplifies the highest type of manhood and to encourage in others the characteristics which made Algernon Sydney Sullivan
beloved of all who knew him. The award is based on a quality which is described as a “desire to
be of service, to help our fellows in combating the daily problems of life.”

Interest in the success of this effort to raise the standard of community life can but express our appreciation for
the opportunity thus provided by the Southern Society whereby Davidson may confer recognition upon those men who, in generous unselfishness
consistently contribute to the uplift and betterment of humanity. The award, further information concerning which may be obtained in the
Library, will be made at Commencement.

PUTTING THE SPEAKING BACK INTO JUNIOR SPEAKING
Following the Senior Class revelry by exactly a month comes the Junior’s turn to celebrate their collegiate position with the
traditional Junior Speaking. Upper-classmen remember that they have heard a rumor to the effect that in years gone by it
was compulsory for every junior to make a speech for the occasion and that the winner was the king of
the day. But within the time in which the present members of the student body have been here, this custom
of compelling the junior to make a speech has been changed to forcing him to make a cash donation. Consequently,
the oratorical contest within the class has been changed to an effort for each successive class to attempt to spend
more money than the one before. But within the past two years the juniors have rebelled against this custom and
attempted to cut expenses and build up the oratorical side of the event. Last year there were four juniors competing
in the contest; the year before, three. It is up to the present Junior class to make as great a
success of the oratoricals as it does of its publication and social events. On account of the fact that there
has been an unusual number of social events scheduled for the spring, Junior Speaking will not be anticipated as a
social event so greatly as it has been heretofore. The other activities of the occasion should therefore have a great
deal of stress, so as to make the week-end a success. With the number of men in the Junior Class
who have formerly shown their interest in oratory there should be a group large enough to necessitate preliminaries for the
contest, to be certainly ought to encourage.

—F.D.M.

Current Comment
By John Brown

Hotchpot
By Kendrick Pritchett

WANTON WILES
By Dave Anderson

This week we look into the past—to incidents during the infancy of Davidson College. When Davidson first opened, on March
1, 1837, tuition was fixed at ten to fifteen dollars per session. The price of board was $6 per month,
and stayed at that low figure for many years. There were three small dormitories accommodating a total of 48 students
by putting four in a room. But the enrollment was 67, so the overflow was permitted to build shacks for
their own use, with the privilege of selling them at the end of their course. The College was run for
a while on a Manual Labor system, by which all the students were required to work, and received from $9
to $15 per session for three hours of work per day. This system was discarded after about four years’ trial,
because of the unwillingness of the students to do the required work, and their pranks which retarded the work. Many
tools were broken or hidden for the purpose of getting a temporary rest from work. One story goes that, since
the workers were entitled to come home when the bell rang, they tied a pig to the bell-rope and gave
him just enough corn to keep him busy until they were safely at work. Then the pig did the rest.

On one occasion in about 1848 a ram was caught and placed on the chapel rostrum. One of the professors
entered, and on seeing the ram turned to leave. But the ram had large horns and knew how to use
them, so the professor was ejected rather hurriedly. In 1854 a serious break occurred between the faculty and students. A
disturbance was raised one night on account of some assigned math problems that were almost impossible for them to work.
When the three professors, who composed the faculty, approached to determine the cause, they were met with a shower of
stones. One of the professors, Major Hill, a graduate of West Point and an officer in the Mexican War, routed
the students when he displayed his Mexican sword. One student was suspended as a result, but the others protested the
action. Failing to reach any agreement, and not liking the discipline required by Major Hill, many of the students left
college not to return. But the institution was unshaken and the regular curriculum was continued with apparently no interruption.

But speaking of exams and commencement, the students were all required for several years to stand an oral examination before
the Board. And commencement took place the second week of August. Maybe they were the good old days, but give
me written exams, if necessary, and June first.

DR. MARTIN
The Charlotte Observer: The name of Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson College, figured twice in the paper last
week. The first time was in connection with his retirement from the active duties as president of that institution. He
has made request at the commencement last June that he be relieved of the burdens of the presidency and this
request had come up for action at the regular mid-winter meeting of the trustees. The reluctance of the board to
enact severance of these relations was manifested in its determination to hold his services as a member of the faculty,
meantime giving him a year's leave of absence that he might benefit by a tour of Europe. Dr. Martin has
not only seen Davidson College “come back,” but he was an important factor in the renaissance. It was through his
influence that many large donations have gone into the Davidson treasury and that the “enabling acts” through which the college
was rehabilitated after destruction of Chambers Hall were established. Dr. Martin has engineered Davidson College into employment of the best
days in its history. He has helped itHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

to reach the crest of the hill and to forge forward on level ground. Dr. Martin, as official and as
man, is held in high esteem not only by the Davidson officials and student body, but by a host of
college friends scattered all over the South. The second appearance of his name was of a kind to create a
feeling of apprehension in the minds of his admirers, for he had been a little thoughtless in crossing a campus
driveway and was struck down by an automobile, receiving injuries which were regarded as cause for hospital treatment, but, as
it happily turned out, of minor nature. With characteristic frankness, Dr. Martin at once absolved the anxious driver from blame.
The relief in connection with the latter incident is that Dr. Martin stands fine prospects of the European tour and
resumption of his connection with Davidson with the opening of the September session next year, by which time it is
expected, Davidson will be going along under management of one of the best college presidents a combing of the country
can develop.

In spite of the astronomical dimensions of the Rockefeller, Ford, and modern fortunes, some of the ancients had an amount
of wealth not at all to be sneezed at. For example, take Croesus, king of Lydia. Nobody knows how rich
he was. But his name became synonymous with fabulous riches. An idea of his wealth may be gained from the
account in Herodotus on the propitiatory offering he sent to the oracle at Delphi to get a favorable prognosis for
a war he intended to wage against the Persians. His bid for success consisted of a pyramid of 117 bricks
of solid gold, weighing 400 pounds apiece. The whole was surmounted by a golden lion weighing 800 pounds. In addition,
there was a collection of bowls of gold, silver, necklaces, and money. At present-day calculations, the total value of this
gift to the gods amounted to $200,000,000. But, apparently, it wasn’t enough; for Croesus did not obtain the victory he
craved. Certain of Croesus’ relatives seem to have been quite as well off as he himself. Pythius, one of his
distant kin, is pictured as giving Xerxes a token of his esteem in the form of money to the amount
of $24,000,000. When Xerxes hesitated, Pythius assured him that it was a mere trifle that he happened to have on
hand. Solomon, in whose days “silver was as dross” in Jerusalem, had an income equivalent to $20,000,000 a year, which
puts the Hebrew king in the Ford class. Diodorus estimates the wealth of the Pharaoh Rameses III at $10,000,000,000 in
the buying values of this day. So, if the poor were always with us, the rich were not far behind.

The man in Miami who divorced his wife to marry her mother will be another of those fellows who can’t
get along with mothers-in-law. A bank robbery was big news in the old days. Now four men hold up a
bank, run off with the money, and to newspapers in other cities that is “worth” just four lines. Ten Mexican
troops and 22 “rebels” are killed in Mexican fighting, with many wounded, and that calls for two short paragraphs. The
human mind gets used to anything. “Russians,” wrote Andreyev, “even joked about the plague as the wagon carried off the
dead.”

Investigators on the staff of the International Standard Electric Company of London made a test of the comparative value of
the four leading languages as to speed and accuracy. He found French was able to carry the largest average number
of ideas during a one-minute telephone conversation. English came next, then German and Italian. When it came to tests for
intelligibility over the telephone, the order was exactly reversed. Plainly, this report proves French a stiff language for the beginner:
rapid in expressing ideas, but easily misunderstood.

Minor Chords

CLOUDS

Dull, soggy mist-banks reminding me of pain—
Drear curtains dripping down ceaseless tears of rain—
Shrill-shrieking, swirling harbingers of storm—
Sky-towering Juggernauts, hideous and deformed,
Rose-tinted lacework against the rising sun—
Purple painted pictures in the sky when day is done—
Gleaming, snowy galleons adrift in blue at noon—
And tenuous, silver veils athwart the glories of the moon.

With chances running high of having the time-honored (and time-worn) structures, the columns of Old Chambers, destroyed, speculations have been
numerous recently as to what the upper, hollow columns contain. Traditions have it that these columns contain a skeleton, quite
a bit of tobacco captured when the Prince Albert Special was wrecked near here, cases of pre-war whisky, etc., etc.
This is mere tradition. We have some facts to present on the subject (Remember the motto of Davidson's Greatest Newspaper:
The truth must be carefully avoided at all times). When (or IF) this destruction takes place, MacDonald Gibson MacDonald (Scotch-Irish),
Davidson ex '97, ex '98, and '99, will be on hand in hopes of recovering a carton of Camels lost
in the depths of these columns. It seems that the Chesterfield man had been around, and in an effort to
conceal his recent purchases, MacDonald dropped his year’s supplies of bought cigarettes in the hollow columns. Two other alumni (names
omitted by special request), who received D. D.’s (Dishonorable Dismissals), will be among those present in order to settle an
old bet. Two doughnuts and a dope hang in the balance. The question is: How many bricks are there in
these columns? Jonothan Vansickle is planning to make a trip from Kalamazoo, Ark., for the occasion. A package of love-letters,
written by Mr. Vansickle while learning the gentle art of loafing in college, are concealed somewhere in the black depths
of these columns. Mr. Vansickle is very anxious to recover these letters. He later married the girl.

SELECTIONS FROM THE BRIEF CASE

The common cicada is the green dog-day harvest-fly, cicada tibicen. The males are provided with sound-making organs, and, since these
are lacking in the female, the philosopher Xenarchos remarked, “Happy is the cicada, since its wife has no voice.”

A warm day finds several ex-prep school stars among the freshmen out for track. One was observed to spend the
entire afternoon practicing breaking the tape. “Baseball uniforms are quite the thing for labs, etc.”

DANGEROUS DAN
(With apologies to any and all poets)

A bunch of the boys were whooping it up
In McClure’s delicatessen shop.
Over in the corner where the card table stood,
Sat Dangerous Dan McFlop.
There was a story floatin’ aroun’
In this one-horse, one-shay town,
That dangerous Dan had sworn to cool
Whoever beat him at cards or pool.
His eyes were fixed with a stary glare
As he reclined in his easy chair.
He played the cards with utmost care;
He played ’em slow—he played ’em fair,
The game was over—Dan drew his gat;
The lights went out as quick as a bat.
When the lights went on, we found a dead Dan there.
He had beat himself at solitaire!

MISS PRUDE’S POINTLESS ADVICE
(Ed's. Note: Miss Prude rates a letter from Oklahoma, out where men and women are women).

Oklahoma, Tuesday, 1929.

Dear Miss Prude:
I am deeply in love with one of your upperclassmen at Davidson and until recently thought that he entertained the
same feeling for me. But then he saw “Rio Rita” in Charlotte and in his next letter he enclosed “Reducing
Secrets of the Stars” and one or two other very pointed pamphlets. Now the question is: Does this indicate a
waning of his affections? You see, I weigh 165 with my pockets empty. He was only a poor, ignorant country
boy and I would just die if one of these city chorus girls got him.
In distress,
Opal B.

Dear Miss Opal,
All your fears are foolish fancied maybes, my dear. Imagine one of these gold-digging chorus girls dating a college man.
Feature one riding a street car to see a two-bit picture show, having a dope afterwards, receiving a pound-box of
candy for any and all special occasions, etc. Lady, money ain't everything in the world, but it sho’ can buy
everything—and the affections of a chorus girl won't be found in the Bargain Basement.
Yours,
Miss Prude.

Contemporary Thought

KEEPING IN TOUCH

McGill Daily: As men get on in years they tend to grow grey and consort with only the few select
cronies who have drifted down the same long path of years. So the older students in any university tend to
herd together and lose interest in those who are springing up around them to follow in their footsteps for better
or for worse as they are guided by the example of the older men. This superior attitude of the senior
in the college is due to no real fault on his part. It is due to a negative rather than
a positive quality. He stands apart and awaits the younger man to make his bow. Often as not the younger
man is so obsessed with his new surroundings that he fails to notice the senior, or again the freshman sees
the older man as a hero who has passed examinations year after year and as one wrapped in a halo
of loftier air. Thus in awe the freshman stands aside to let the senior pass and regards him as one
in another world who is not interested in the freshman’s affairs, his tribulations, and his victories.

Now this is all wrong. The freshman must learn to regard his senior as a brother in arms, who has
served a term and is ready to give a little advice gleaned in the vale of trials. The senior must
make up for the freshman’s reticence and welcome with a ready smile, which may be tinged with the paternal feeling.
At any rate, the senior cannot afford to miss meeting the freshman and the freshman must not fail to meet
the senior. For the sad thing about college life is that the lads have their day and all too soon
become seniors, a few among a swarm of mere boys fresh from the preparatory schools. These latter engulf the scene
of the senior’s earlier exploits. The seniors stand aloof, fall out of the old accustomed ways, and leave the ancient
halls of learning feeling that in their last year their Alma Mater has grown away from them and that never
more shall exist that feeling of harmony once so strongly filled their hearts. So passes the senior a sadder and
a wiser man, disillusioned, wondering if it was all worth while. Of course it was, but that attitude of mind
will never make a boasting graduate or one who will come back to revisit the university in after years. Why?
Because he grew apart from the ivy-clad walls before he was forced to leave. The illusion of being cherished by
the Alma Mater was dispelled. He left alone. Why should he return—also alone?
