Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy, $2.00 the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson,
North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not
be published.

EDITORIAL STAFF
BROWN - Editor-in-Chief
R. D. POWELL - Business Manager
F. D. MILLER - Managing Editor
C. M. PRATT - Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT - Associate Editor
V. A. MILTON - Associate Editor
P. B. HARRIS - Associate Editor
D. P. LAKE - Associate Editor
W. K. HOOKER - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
L. A. MILLS - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. McCALL - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. McGUIRE - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
R. F. SLOOP - Circulation Mgr.
H. B. JENNINGS - Subscription Mgr.
H. McLEAN - Solicitor
G. D. EVERINGTON - Solicitor
A. CANNON - Solicitor
D. MAJORS - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President: W. A. ABERNETHY
Secretary-Treasurer: E. H. HEEFNER
Members: P. ALDERMAN, W. F. PRESTON, C. H. DUBOSE, C. RAGIN, R. GRAHAM, D. RUSK, W. L. WEAVER, S. WILEY,
J. V. D. MIDDLETON

FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1929

IN CHARGE OF JUNIOR COMMITTEE
Issue Editorial Staff: Chairman
Assistant Business Staff: W. B. McGUIRE, E. H. McCALL, L. A. MILLS

Hooker Yaw, ailing for quite a spell, was advised by Doc Dumm to use more animal food; so Hooker started
eating dog biscuits. Ever since "Ackie" Hawley announced he had a case, Pooty Idle has been hanging around, thinking it's
some new kind of liquor. Sandy Gardner of Bermuda Hill brought in a load of vegetables to the office on
account of his subscription, which now fetches him up to 1927. It being nigh noontime, he stayed for quite a
spell and helped eat them all up. Sandy knows his onions, raw or cooked. Gwanda Flapper says she lost out
on Christmas gifts considerably this time, having hung up her invisible stockings. Weather: Uncertain but plentiful.

JUNIOR ISSUE
Several years ago the Junior Class abolished Junior Speaking as held during the Easter Holidays. At the same time, Sanity
Rare, a humorous publication, was also abolished. In place of Sanity Rare, an issue of the Davidsonian is put out
during Junior Speaking, this issue being called the Junior Issue and featuring activities of the Junior Class. The issue is
handled by the Junior Class, and a staff is appointed to act in charge of the publication. The staff for
this year’s issue has worked hard to put out a good number of the paper. The editorial staff has gathered
the necessary feature stories, and the business staff has labored to get the advertisements, in order to raise the necessary
funds to put out a special issue. The paper is no larger than usual, but there are many features, and
some unusual cuts of views. Acting in charge of this issue is C. M. Pratt, chairman. Working with him on
the editorial side are E. D. Miller, V. A. Milton, and R. F. Jarratt; on the business side, W. B.
McGuire, E. H. McCall, and L. A. Mills.

THE CHANGING VIEW
Everything changes, the world goes on, and the old gives way to the new; old ideas are superseded by modern
thought. Such a change has come over Junior Speaking. When Junior Speaking was first thought of, the country was ringing
with the enthusiasm of oratory, so the first “speaking” stressed the importance of oratory. And even then the junior oratoricals
were only a preliminary to commencement orations. Now the time has come when the oratoricals are no longer of any
importance. Social activities have taken their place. So much so that the speaking is no longer included in the weekend;
this year they are postponed until after the festivities are over. This view only reflects the changing ideas of the
world at large. For many years the trends and thoughts of the people have been changing and being directed toward
a different channel. People are losing their interest in oratory and learnedness; the social life is stressed. More people would
turn out for a tea than would gather together to hear the two best speakers in the world. The tendency
of the world changes, so why should not the tendency of a group also change? Junior Speaking has changed; very
few pay any attention to the speaking part, even the thoughts of the Juniors change. Since there is a lessening
interest in the oratory, and this part is only perfunctory, why not abolish this part entirely? There are several reasons
in favor of this, the chief one being that there is a negligible amount of time and attention given to
it. It is a struggle for the class to get enough men to have a speaking; very few attend. Other
established institutions have given way to the modernistic trend; other sacrifices have been made upon the altar of progress. Why
keep the archaic speaking when its usefulness has passed, and the only reason for continuing it is the thought of
sentiment and deference to the established?

EXPENSES
We believe that those in charge of the program for this year’s Junior Speaking are to be commended heartily for
having adhered to the determination expressed by the juniors of last year to abolish the old idea of the proper
way to conduct the week which bore their name. It used to be thought the thing for each rising senior
class to drain its members of all the money that could be begged, borrowed, or stolen. And this for a
supposedly fine time. The present plan, when looked at before it is put into actual execution, seems to have the
makings of a thoroughly good time—the program of events is full at all events. Whether or not the week will
be expensive to the class—not as individuals, but in the form of assessments—we do not know. At least we have
been told by the authorities that it will not. And lastly, it is a good thing to omit the former
gatherings in the gym, suffocated with confetti, hot air, and typical banquet food. But this idea may not be permanent,
and we may weaken like the Seniors, after saying we will have nothing more to do with Alumni gymnasium until
we are alumni.

ARE WE DOING OUR PART?
It is both natural and expected that old people are prone to make the statement, at one time or another,
that the younger generation is inferior to the young set of their own day as far as morals are concerned.
Due to this fact, whenever we hear such a statement we tolerate it with a smile, and realize that we
must not take these opinions too seriously. Such has come to be the attitude towards the spirit in most schools.
The students expect the “Old Grad” to mourn over the decrease of that old fighting spirit, and consequently, do not
take it to heart. Often, however, adherence to such criticism might well be taken seriously. Is it possible that such
might be the case in our own Davidson, surrounded on all sides by tradition, and embedded in a rock-like foundation
of the never-die spirit? There are numbers of small institutions in the country that see athletic service of some type
from every physically fit man in the student body. If there is a real spirit, this is it. Let us
look at our own case for an instant. Somewhere in the neighborhood of forty men from a student body of
over six hundred have turned out for track practice. There would be some excuse, perhaps, if all the varsity men
were stars and had their positions cinched; but on a team where there are possibilities to do something for the
school, the coaches, and for yourself, is it right not to at least try? We should not question the traditional
spirit of our Alma Mater, but ourselves, to see if we are doing our part to ensure the maintenance of
such a spirit. It depends on those who constitute the vital part of the institution; and that part is surely
the students.

W. V. McGavock.

Weather report: “Sunday, generally fair—probably followed by Monday.” —Ecco.

He: “I love you darling.”
She: “Do you really?”
He: “I adore you; will you marry me?”
She: “Why change the subject?” —Ex.

Doctor: “Sonny, the stork has just brought you a little baby sister. Do you want to see her?”
Little Boy: “No, but I certainly would like to see the stork.” —Ex.

Teacher: “What are the three Greek orders?”
Tommy: “Capo skuffy, roast beef sandwich, and peas coconut pie.” —Ex.

He: “I feel as if I had known you for years.”
She: “Yes, you certainly do.”

“I lost my biggest creditor today.”
“Did he die?”
“No, he made me pay him.” —Forerunner.

History Of Junior Speaking
When a newspaper reporter like me is assigned an article to write, the fellow who wants the article has to
tell him where to get the dope. Well, I was told to go to Doc Charley for all facts, to
the Davidsonian files for all fiction. Well, since Doc Charley has had to clean up the gym and other places
after the Juniors got through with it, he has a pretty straight story of what happened.went on during the Junior
Speaking exercises for the past quarter century. On the other hand, we find from the Davidsonian that each successive speaking
was unprecedented by any that went before. Those fellows who wrote these articles sure believed in the ascending scale. As
long as the Davidsonian is published and the Junior Speaking is not attended, the climax will not come—according to the
trend of things as pictured in the Davidsonian. But we err just a little. We forgot to mention that two
speakings did not surpass the former ones but “proved to be enjoyable occasions.” But it looks as if the second
of those two may have been pretty good, but the fellow who published the paper thought it would be easier
to copy the head that was used in the paper the year before than to make his particular speaking an
“unprecedented occasion.” But the fellow who told me to write this article forgot to tell me to go to the
most reliable source of information on the campus. He didn’t think of Cop Johnson, the night watchman. I remember that
last year (I’m not boasting—just stating facts) I prophesied that Cop Johnson would throw light on some interesting subjects during
Junior Speaking. And I believe I was right, too. But since the fellow who told me to write this story
didn't tell me to see Cop Johnson, I suppose I can’t do it.

After having given you a detailed account of my source of dope, I will now proceed to tell you about
Junior Speaking. Back in the eighties, every Senior who graduated had to make an oration before he was given his
diploma. Well, somebody got the idea in their head that that wasn’t enough orations. So they stepped down a class
and said that all the Juniors as well as the Seniors had to make a speech before they could leave
(nowadays you have to pay all your debts before you can get a diploma). Therein lies the seed of Junior
Speaking as we have it today. But you see the seed has sprouted, matured, and gone back to seed. The
first Junior Speaking was held on February 22, just twelve days after the anniversary of Lincoln’s birthday, or to be
exact, on Washington's birthday. The year of its origin was 1893. In those days, the event was easily the outstanding
date on the social calendar. The faculty helped in the entertainment of the many young ladies invited up for the
occasion, just as was done during the past Senior weekend. Livery stables in Charlotte were called on to meet the
heavy demand for horses and buggies. The dome of old Chambers vied with the Chinaberry tree for social popularity. The
date for the exercises has been moved back and forth ever since its establishment. From the 22nd of February, it
was changed to occur during the spring holidays and was later shifted back to the first part of March. In
1927, it was held during the spring recess but was shifted to another date the ensuing year. For a long
period of years, there seemed to be no change, worthy of publication, made in the custom. This continued up until
a year or two after the war. A typical program was as follows: Thursday, 7:30 p.m., Speaking. Friday, 3:00 p.m.,
Speaking. Saturday (holiday), 10:00 a.m., Speaking. Saturday, 3:30 p.m., Speaking. Saturday, 4:30 p.m., Faculty Reception. Saturday, 7:00 p.m., Glee Club
Concert. Saturday, 9:00 p.m., Fraternity Reception.

The orations given then were the chief interest of the event. From the entire Junior Class, six men were chosen
who would speak at the following commencement. But the day when speaking was the main feature was to pass. The
class got too large to require every member to make a speech before graduation and the compulsory clause was eliminated.
The literary societies began to select their best speakers and designate them to speak in the contest. During 1920 and
’21, there was a decline in the number of speakers and the climax of the whole institution came in 1923.
There had been a gradual increase in the attention given to the social side and a decrease of interest in
the forensic. The typical program given above was changed so that it lasted from Thursday night to Monday night, featured
by baseball games, football engagements, a cabaret in the gym, two picture shows, and frat teas. With all these activities,
only one period was given over to the speaking in contrast to five and six in former years. In 1923,
the Junior Class published the first humorous magazine and gave copies of it to all students and visitors. This publication
was called “Caps and Bells,” and was followed in subsequent years by “Sanity Rare.” With the Junior Speaking of 1923,
the classes began spending a large amount of money for entertainment, taxing the members heavily. Matters remained in this condition
for three or four years, with each class spending more money in elaborately decorating the gymnasium and providing entertainment. A
second or anti-climax came in 1927 when a long open forum article from a disgusted Junior said to cut out
Junior Speaking. As a result of this article, a vote was made in which the class decided by a large
majority to retain the event. That year marked the ebb tide of oratorical contestants—three men spoke. The following class, in
1928, modified the form of the occasion very much, cutting out the humorous magazine and issuing a special edition of
the Davidsonian in its stead. Much improvement was made in the oratory over that of the preceding year. Chapter 36
will be added to this story during the coming weekend.

HOW TO TELL YOUR OWN FORTUNE
Body By Fisher
“I’VE GOT YOUR NUMBER!” (Try this one on your girl or poodle dog. Drawn and quartered especially for The Davidsonian
by the world’s greatest faker).

DIRECTIONS FOR FINDING YOUR NUMBER
Answer each question “Yes” or “No” according to the dictates of your conscience. Discard groups in which a majority of
the questions are answered “No,” using groups in which a majority of the answers are “Yes” to form your Key
Number.

Are you amused when people make fools of themselves (i.e., Do you laugh at this column)?
Do you usually get what you want? (This one can be answered by actual experiment)
Are you absent-minded?
Is this a pretty good old world?
Are you haunted by a sense of the seriousness of life?
People of your type should not attempt to eat soup with a knife.

Group I
Do you make decisions only after serious thought? Key Number 0 (Answer this while sober) Yes
Do you think that Shakespeare actually wrote “She Stoops to Conquer” or that Bacon wrote it? No

You are the type of person who is like the parson’s mule; not blind, just don’t give a plumber’s dern.
When your love affairs go wrong, you don’t weep over the matter. You realize that women (or men) are just
like street-cars—one is always coming along and it doesn’t matter to you whether they are going or coming.

Key Number 1
If only you didn’t take life so seriously you would be a great blessing to the world. Eat more fried
onions and use Listerine. You should get a job in the Swiss Navy or as a pork inspector at Jerusalem.
If those two fail, try teaching. You are above the common run of people. It would be better if you
were further above; better for the common herd.

Key Number 2
You are one who will never run when he can walk; never walk when he can stand still; never stand
still when he can sit down; never sit down when it is possible to lie down; never lie down when
it is possible to go to sleep.

Key Number 12
You are hopeless. Not much chance of you earning your bread and butter unless you break in somewhere as a
newspaper man (preferably a columnist).

NEWS EVENTS
Davidson, N. C. (B. P.) The Junior Class held a banquet in the beautiful Florentine Dining Room of the Maxwell-Chambers
Hotel last Friday night. The price was $10.00 per plate. Only the honorary guests were present. Below is the program
of this wonderful banquet:

ANNUAL BANQUET (Every three years)
THE CLASS OF NINETEEN THIRTY
(Menu Subject to Change Without Notice)
This is a real course dinner—you ought to feel at home. Read carefully and eat the same way. Speakers will
be limited to two hours each. The silver is real silver, so please restrain your natural instincts.

Me-N-U
“Eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow you may have a hangover”
Salary Bank Rolls *After dinner. (Proceed at your own risk)
Vaultless Cocktail
ENTRY
Postdated Olives
Safe Crackers
Asparagus on the Half Shell
Assorted Wheezes
*A. D. Coffee (It is expressly understood that all guests place no responsibility on the management in case of death.
Those who paid for this dinner should die anyhow.)

Get her to say “Stewed Prunes” with her eyes shut. It’s easy.

TRY THIS ONE ON YOUR GIRL
It is rumored that one of the Freshmen in school is to receive a medal for bravery. It seems that
this freshman was swimming to breakfast one morning last week when he heard the distressing cry of two drowning men.
He pulled them out and saved their lives. One was slightly injured when he came up under the roof of
the fountain cover.

Did you know that the city of Davidson is now the largest lake in the United States?

JUNIOR WEEK (END) SPECIAL
First Junior: “Isn't that girl good-looking?”
Second Thug: “Row. Rowdy!—And she’s got a pretty face, too.”

Several letters have come in—(Don’t leave us world)—here is one:
How should I reply to an R. S. V. P. invitation and what does R. S. V. P. mean, anyhow?
My dear child, R. S. V. P. simply means “Respectful, sober, folks preferred.” Here is a standard reply form:
