Page Two of THE DAVIDSONIAN March 27, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy $3.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not
be published.

AUBREY BROWN.............Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL..............Managing Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
F. D. MILLER...............Managing Editor
C. M. PRATT...............Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT.............Managing Editor
Z. V. LONG.................Sports Editor
V. A. MILTON..............News Editor
P. B. BANKS...............Society Editor
D. P. McGEACHY...........Feature Editor
W. W. WATKINS............Assistant Editor
L. BROWN.................Assistant Editor
R. LAKE...................Assistant Editor
R. M. RARITY..............Associate Editor
J. L. PRITCHETT............Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
R. A. MILLS................Business Manager
E. H. McCALL..............Assistant Business Manager
W. B. McGUIRE.............Circulation Manager
R. F. PHILLIPS.............Assistant Circulation Manager
H. B. GILLESPIE............Solicitor
G. W. WATKINS.............Solicitor
W. A. VERDERY.............Solicitor
E. S. FINE.................Secretary-Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN............Assistant Secretary-Treasurer
F. B. PRESTON.............Assistant Secretary-Treasurer
C. H. DUBOSE..............Assistant Secretary-Treasurer
W. C. RAGIN...............Assistant Secretary-Treasurer
R. GRAHAM................Assistant Secretary-Treasurer
D. RUSK...................Assistant Secretary-Treasurer
W. KIRKPATRICK...........Assistant Secretary-Treasurer
R. McELWEE...............Assistant Secretary-Treasurer
J. P. McBRYDE.............Assistant Secretary-Treasurer
J. V. D. MIDDLETON........Assistant Secretary-Treasurer

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 1929

The Davidsonian Wants
—to congratulate its editor-elect.
—to announce a change of staff effective with the next issue.
—to commend the Juniors for their recent Junior “Speaking” program.
—to see the student body back a winning ball team through a successful season.
—everybody to know that there will be no classes from Thursday noon until 8:30 a.m. Wednesday. (This is a NEWSpaper.)
—to call attention to the fact that there will be no paper next week on account of spring holidays. Next
issue April 11th.
—to thank students, faculty, and all others who have helped the staff, in any way whatever, during the past year,
and to urge continued support of the staff taking charge after Easter.

THE STUDENT’S RELIGION: WHAT IS IT?
Consider these two quotations:
“The average college student lays aside his spiritual beliefs for a time.” (From a college paper).
“The provisional committee of the Y. M. C. A. reported today that interest in religion is increasing among undergraduates.” (From
a Chicago news item).

These two very different opinions raise the question as to what part religion does play in the life of college
students, and what influence it has upon the undergraduate mind. In most cases it is true that the manner of
expression of religious beliefs and active participation in movements sponsored by the church, Y. M. C. A., etc., is somewhat
altered. But not appreciably so. In some circles it has been popular to openly assert a belief in nothing, proclaiming
one’s self an atheist. But usually, such assertions are pseudo, hiding underneath a blasé exterior a deep-rooted faith that knows
a true religion.

These cases are not in the majority, however, if we are to believe those who are in touch with student
religious activity throughout the nation today. The testimony is that there is more genuine interest; more inquiring, testing, pulsating, religious
enthusiasm than ever before. And so, those charges that students forget their religious training at college seem ill-founded. Perhaps it
is true, often, that many students shift their attitudes, remaining vaguely conscious of their religion, but failing to take the
time necessary to formulate definite beliefs in the subject. Religion, nevertheless, is playing a vital and important part in American
student life today.

YOURS TRULY—
With the writing of the last editorial and the supervising of the last make-up, there come mingled feelings of satisfaction
because of certain changes and seeming forward steps, and of regret caused by failure to accomplish many tasks which went
no further than the mind. But there is a feeling stronger than either of these, and that one is of
gratitude to staff and helpers who labored on issue after issue in order that Davidson’s “weekly” might breathe forth a
bit of news. To Professor Porter, faculty advisor, and to many members of the Faculty and Administration, we owe thanks
because of valuable suggestions and assistance rendered.

Except for the opening engagement with regard to the propriety of the senior gift suggested last spring, this volume has
witnessed only peaceful happenings—unless one term an occasional magazine review amiss. Perhaps this is good and perhaps not. It may
be that there are institutions here which should have been fought through the editorial columns—but we know of none. Perhaps
the attitude has been too nearly passive on other occasions—but we think not. It has been the purpose of the
present staff, since the writing of what might have been called a policy, to approve and promote, so far as
possible, those things which were worthy, and to discourage and abolish, again within the realm of the possible, those practices
and customs which seemed out of accord. And so it is with some degree of satisfaction that we look back
through the files and note an editorial suggestion which later, whether because of any motive power in the suggestion or
no, was deemed worthy by some “powers that be” and became a reality. It’s the same kind of pleasure that
comes when one picks a winning team.

If this volume of The Davidsonian has, to any degree, achieved any recognition as successful, it is because of the
able, faithful, and constant support of the editors from the Junior Class. Their responsibility has been the great one, and
they have co-operated with one another and with the members of the staff in a manner which is praiseworthy, to
discharge that responsibility. To Pritchett, J. L. Brown, McCutchan, Anderson, and Clark, gratitude is hereby expressed for their assistance as
columnists on the editorial page. Their work has been of merit. To the other members of the staff, and to
the reporters, we are also grateful for faithful and efficient service. Without them, there would have been no publication.

As we cast a glance backward we see many things which we believe would be for the betterment of Davidson,
which we did not support publicly because of certain existing restrictions. There are movements which can hardly be brought into
focus except they receive comment through publication, and yet, they must remain unmentioned. Until the status is changed, no publication
can render its greatest service to the institution and student body which it represents. If, in any manner, the purpose
of this journal has been more nearly realized by the present staff, we shall feel that the many hours of
work and worry have not been in vain. Concluding, we prophesy for the new editor and his associates a successful
volume as they continue the “For a Better Davidson.”

Cosmic Chaos
By J. W. McCutchan

Meditations while hoofing: Rainy baseball game, but good. Hejira to the entertainment at Charlotte, through paths of tornadoes and everything.
At last to the cot, but not till Saturday morning. Saturday, March 23. Up betimes, or at the time that
the sun was supposed to be high in the sky. It wasn’t. To classes somewhat as usual on Tuesdays, and
Saturdays. Dick Flinn’s large black felt, but not nearly as startling as a certain orange one. A premature rainbow revue.
More classes, and rain interrupting the professors. Poor rhubarb! In the afternoon to the track meet to see athletes slosh
about in the slush. John Currie firing the gun, reminding one of Fred Wagner. Thence to the “Lady of the
Pavements,” and peanuts. They were ankle-deep in places. An especially pleasing show, aided by the Sunnyland Serenaders. Good music, only
failing to play “Sonny Boy,” on request. After mingling somewhat with the crowd, to the Rainbow Revue. Page Flo Ziegfeld,
Earl Carroll, anybody! And the Gastonia quartet! Honorable amazement, as Neewah would say. Plenty of heat and laughs at the
professors. H-m-m-m, a darn good show. Patrolling the avenues midst the cherry blossoms, peach perfume and what not. So to
bed.

Recently the Pullman Company named a car after Dr. Charles D. McIver, founder of N. C. C. W. Doubtless this
is an honor, but many intelligent people have been non-plussed to understand the number of peculiar names with which Pullmans
are christened. Having surpassed those more common names of animals, fowls, countries, states, cities, and so on, the official christener
hastened in glee to Indian tribes and Montenegrin princes. The fact that these have been expended is witnessed by the
fact that the more prosaic Scottish and Irish cognomens have been adopted. An honor? Perhaps.

A rather startling and unconventional editorial came to the writer's attention the other day. The title of it was, “Is
the World a Chicago?” Special note was taken of the recent tragedy on Daytona Beach during speed trials. It will
be remembered that the driver and a cameraman were killed in one of the worst accidents ever witnessed. The public
and world demand speed; tests must be made. They also demand pictures of outstanding events; news-reels are photographed. The death
of two men means little to a speed-crazed, curious people. (This column might be attributed to a huge barbecue sandwich
I ate after midnight last night. There is nothing like a barbecue sandwich to make one realize the seriousness of
life on this mundane sphere).

Hotchpot
By Kendrick Pritchett

WANTON WILES
By Dave Anderson

Dr. Salady, an authority on the ultra-violet ray, says, “The City of the future will be a city of light.”
This statement was made in his house of vita glass, which allows the passage of ultra-violet rays. Modern Sun worshippers,
like Dr. Salady, have produced wonderful evidence showing the effect of light, natural and artificial, on such diseases of darkness
as tuberculosis, rickets and lung diseases. Large cities lose something like 50 per cent of rural sunlight owing to smoky
chimneys, and the death-rate is higher during the dark months of the year. In London there are right now 150,000
families living in one room per family, huddled together, regardless of age and sex. They are denied the light of
life.

Will the laundries participate in the expectant farm relief? They make their profits from the soil.

Why do newspaper correspondents leave the Clark out of Mr. Hoover's name? To be sure, he was christened Herbert Clark
Hoover, but he long ago dropped the middle initial from his signature. It is astonishing how many famous persons have
succumbed to the lure of the double spondee. Woodrow Wilson, after experimenting with various combinations of names and initials, dropped
the Thomas when he was still a student at the University of Virginia. Cleveland's baptismal Christian name was Stephen Grover,
but he will go down to history as simply Grover Cleveland. Similarly, President Coolidge had John for a first name,
but it seldom appears in print. In fact, twenty of the Presidents wrote their signature using only two names. There
is a dignity about the spondee that the Greeks recognized when they gave it that name, symbolic of the slow
measured melodies that accompanied libations to the gods—such as politicians now make in their way.

The man who doesn’t know his own mind hasn't much acquaintance, missed of an acquaintance. The other day I looked
down a list of new arrivals in the columns of the New York Times and indulged in a moment's day-dream
of what will happen toHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

These lucky little ladies and gentlemen, just born into the changing world. (This day-dream was necessary to complete this column.)
They will be the Children of Progress. Will they have a better chance than we had? Their fairy stories will
include the wonders of natural science. They will be awakened very quickly to the great adventure of knowledge, instead of
having it thrust upon them as a dull damned thing. How good to be a college man in 1950—if such
things may be!

OPEN FORUM | ARE CHURCH AND CHAPEL WORTHWHILE?

Mr. Editor: Will you publish the following clipping taken from The Christian Observer? —A.

1. Would you wish to have your college abolish its place and times of worship and have no religious interest?
Do you desire it to be purely materialistic and to disparage or ignore those fundamental principles of thought and feeling
which humanity has ever regarded as essential to character and life in the highest sense? If not, how about your
attitude in practice?

2. Is it your judgment that classes and extra curriculum activities will give you a well-rounded character and life, without
any times or occasions and influences for cultivating your finer emotions?

3. Is it not helpful for us to pause at times, for reflection, the searching of conscience, and to let
our hearts be touched?

4. Do you want to live in a universe that is without meaning, that has no place in it for
a divine mind and will and love that guides the moral and spiritual life of mankind; whose jaunty motto is,
“Eat, drink and be merry?”

5. As you need teachers to guide you in mathematics and coaches to instruct you in athletics, have you no
need of the guidance of teachers for character, who will recall you to conscience and life, from time to time?

6. You are able to sit often for several hours at theatre and movies; is one Sunday hour out of
168 hours of the week or 20 minutes each day out of 1,440 minutes an exorbitant time of restraint in
which to think into your heart and life and to compose your mind?

7. Is the explanation that you need this time for study or sleep an honest reason or a plausible excuse?
Indeed, might not these quiet occasions be a relief that would rest and help in your studies?

8. Are you so much freer from temptation and the tendency to evil than your father and mother, who feel
the constant need of divine help?

9. Is your complaint that the preachers are “not interesting” (I admit it is too often true) much more than
another manufactured alibi, and do you always go when they are interesting? Is the fault always with them or is
it in part because of something you have not acquired; because you have not cultivated the spirit of reverence and
the sense of worship?

10. Are you forming habits of neglect which you would want your children to inherit, and would you want your
mother and father to be like the people of those habits in our community? If you have had a happy
home, it is largely due to the constant seeking of guidance and mother for light and leading, for strength and
wisdom beyond their own and the cultivation of the sense of reverence for home, for science and high ideals of
thought and marriage, and for childhood.

Dr. Salady, European scientist and FAREWELL!

You bet that Tommy sees.” He thinks too much: Such men are dangerous.” it has been profitable. Paging Miss Prude!
bells. And that’s that.” this famous lady of the world. Curtain! Exit the Jester.

Beethoven's immortal “Farewell to Music;” Washington's masterpiece, his “Farewell Address”—and now another famous farewell is being written in the sands
of time. A farewell to the tenth Muse, the immortal Muse of Bull. For in this issue of Davidson's largest
morning or evening newspaper is the Grand Finale, by Miss Prude and the entire company of the Bull Pen (copyright
Feb. 31, by yours loquaciously). With today’s last shovel full of bull we take our bow—and it's “Exit the Jester.”

A year has passed since we got sucked-in on this job. And for one solid year we have been cussing
the editor of this column for being editor of this column. Like the girl at N. C. C. W. “Who
writes that Bull Pen,” we have been wishing we could see the fool who first took over the job—yours truly
of a year ago, and tell him a few of the inside points about said job. We would tell him
how it is not so easy to write it as it is to read. That is a pain in the
neck personified to type four or five pages of supposed humor when you have just busted two reviews, received a
letter from your best girl telling about the other guy, and have lost five dollars at a game of—er—checkers.

Cursed is the man with senseless humor; cursed is the man without a sense of humor. The clown, the jester
laughs and amuses the king and his royal court. But Tommy ain't no bloomin’ fool, (Dern those rat holes in
this dormitory!) after all. And yet—at the end of it sitting and thinking—it hasn’t been so bad. Well, maybe. But
above all, it has been profitable. But underneath it all, the clown isn’t always quite as big a fool as
he looks. Another year of life. As we live, we learn. Writing this space-filler this year, week after week without
a break, has taught us quite a bit about things, people, and life. And now we are all with Caesar:
“Let me have men about me that are fat, sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o’ nights: Yon Cassius has
a lean and hungry look; he thinks too much: Such men are dangerous.”

Most assuredly, cursed is the man with a sense of humor. He may be a “success” in the eyes of
the world, but still not live. We had rather be a little frog in any size pond with plenty of
space to kick around and enjoy the blessings of nature than be a big frog in a crowded pond with
nothing to do but bellow out our importance to lesser frogs. We want to take time-out to thank the editor
for getting us sucked-in on this job. Though it is a suck-in in every sense of that slang expression, still
it has made us famous? But it has given us a more pleasant outlook on life. It has endowed us
with a sense of humor and given us many a pleasant hour. Though it has been more or less of
a duty to peck out four pages of bull, it has pecked the blues out of us many a Monday
night. If you want to be happy, try doing something, though it be something foolish.

And now the mythical Miss Prude will say a word about the women. Miss Prude, front and center. “Hi, folks
out yonder. The ed has asked me to classify the types of women. There are two types (not blonde or
brunettes, that is a superficial classification designed by the man who courted a blonde and wanted to make folks think
he was a gentleman). One type of woman uses dumb-bells to get color on her cheeks. The other type uses
color on her cheeks to get dumb-bells. And that’s that.”

Bah! “Fame is not a plant that grows on mortal soil.” But now we must go. Every comedian entertains an
expressed or unexpressed desire to play Hamlet or Macbeth. Some of the best stories of the seriousness of life we
have ever read were written by such famous humorists as Irvin Cobb, Rube Goldberg, Ring Lardner, and Will Rogers. So,
if by any chance you think we have won our spurs in comedy, try reading some of our seriousness which
we hope to write some day. That story of the bear in the barber shop—you know, “He died and she
married the barber.” Many thanks to any who have endured reading this column. Anyone being able to prove that they
have read it three weeks straight running will, by sending in such proof, get a life-size photo of Miss Prude,
autographed by this famous lady of the world. Why not? The editor wishes to thank those who have helped him—the
two fellows who gave us a humorous magazine once. You expected something funny. Well, that’s funny. You didn’t get it.
Au Revoir—a good old French word meaning “Close the door from the outside,” or “Come back and see us when
we are out.” A-women.

Contemporary Thought

THE GREAT GOD STANDARDIZATION

Daily Trojan:—In grammar school they teach you how to write every little “r” so that it will be identical with
every other little “r” that you or someone else might have written. You must use the Zaner method or the
Palmer method—you must standardize. In education everywhere, if you are not careful, they teach you how to think so that
you will think exactly as the rest of the world thinks—standardization again. While it might be true that a certain
amount of standardization is necessary unless we want to be anarchists, it is just as true that, on the whole,
standardization does not make for any great amount of general friendship and amity: men quarrel because they are alike. Let
no one say that standardization is not with us. It is, and it falls short of doing for us the
things that it advocates credit to it. “Gentlemen may cry, ‘peace! peace’! and think to gain peace by teaching everyone
the same thing. But there is no peace, and, for that matter, very little satisfaction of any kind, when, in
public schools and everywhere men wave the flags of nationalism, nationalism everywhere alike in being jealous and controversial. Standardization seems
the god of modernity; it brings, perhaps, what is called prosperity, but it brings also persecution for those who would
dare to disgrace, as they are allowed to disgrace under the new—disregarded bill of rights. Small wonder it is that
Sinclair Lewis wrote about Babbitt. Small wonder, too, that extremists as H. L. Mencken should have the following that they
do. When people protest against custom, they are often inclined to go to extremes. By all means, let the schools
strive to obtain, not masses thinking as a unit, but units thinking in terms of mass. It benefits not, in
fact it better not, that each “r” be like every other “r.” It is better to realize that human beings
will remain human beings, as will their children after them: they will not be alike.

He who laughs last may be the dumbest. And there is romance for the lady bootlegger if he loves her
still. Dizzy Izzy wants to know if they speak of the moon’s being silvery because it comes in halves and
quarters. Note the kinship of baseball coaches and revue producers. Both are worrying about the shape of their players. If
experience is what you know after you have made a fool of yourself, some of us should be highly experienced.
And why take life seriously? You'll never get out of it alive.

“What did the boss do when you told him that it was triplets?” “He promoted me to the head of
the department.” “What department were you in?” “Production.” —Wildcat.

“Let's play college.” “Wait till I get the sofa.”

---
