THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

Kim’s Kolumn | Forecasting This Week’s Football

Half a dozen intersectional games provide the sauce for the national football feast on Saturday, but traditional rivalries furnish the
main entrees on the menu. On a day when such games as Navy-Penn, Purdue-Wisconsin, Tulane-Georgia, Columbia-Cornell, and Dartmouth-Yale are available
to tempt the football fan, only the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech fray or the Chicago-Princeton encounter, among intersectional battles, can offer
much competition.

Notre Dame, fresh from victories over Navy, Wisconsin, and Carnegie Tech, with Carideo, Elder, and Brill, is much improved over
last year's team. Tech boasts a win over Rockne’s boys last season, but it appears that two in a row
is too much to expect. The Princeton Tiger, still fretful over last week's tie with Navy, should experience little difficulty
in defeating Coach Stagg’s Chicago Maroons.

The other intersectional games bring together Duke and Boston College; Carnegie Tech and Washington University (St. Louis); Florida and Harvard;
Oglethorpe and Villanova; and Army and the University of South Dakota. None of these, however, can hope to divert much
attention from the big domestic spectacles.

Beaten by Notre Dame and tied by Princeton, the Navy hopes to get going at the expense of Pennsylvania, but
their hopes seem to lack any logical foundation. Penn has only been beaten by California and revealed a powerful offensive
against V. P. I. and Lehigh. Purdue, the most outstanding team in the Big Ten at the present time, is
favored over Wisconsin, although the Badgers are not to be taken too lightly despite their failure to score a single
point in their last three games.

Tulane’s astonishing victory over Georgia Tech served only to confirm what previously had been something more than a slight suspicion—namely,
that to check the Green Wave one must stop Banker. There seems to exist considerable doubt that Georgia, with its
green line, can do either. Gil Dobie’s Red Wave expects all sorts of trouble from Columbia, although the latter is
not nearly so dangerous as they were a couple of seasons back.

These games will prove attractive to countless fans, but the main spotlight of public interest will be focused on the
Yale Bowl where a great Dartmouth eleven will seek their first victory from Old Eli. Yale, rated in pre-season dope
as one of the outstanding teams in the East, decisively beaten by Georgia in an early season game, came back
to win over the strong Army eleven in truly sensational style. Dartmouth—unheralded and unsung, with staggering victories over Columbia and
Harvard, and boasting the country’s leading scorer in the person of Al Marsters—now looms as one of the outstanding contenders
for national championship honors. Yale’s hopes are none too bright, and even though upsets are quite frequent on the gridiron,
it is hardly probable that “Special Delivery Al” and the Big Green can be stopped.

As I Pick ’Em
V. M. I. at Davidson.
Duke at BOSTON COLLEGE.
Holy Cross at BROWN.
CARNEGIE TECH at Washington Univ.
Columbia at CORNELL.
Wake Forest at FURMAN.
Georgetown at N. Y. U.
NOTRE DAME at Georgia Tech.
Florida at HARVARD.
Indiana at MINNESOTA.
Lafayette at W. & J.
N. C. State at UNIVERSITY OF N. C.
ILLINOIS at Northwestern.
Oglethorpe at VILLANOVA.
Ohio State at PITTSBURGH.
Penn State at SYRACUSE.
Chicago at PRINCETON.
PURDUE at Wisconsin.
TULANE at Georgia.
ALABAMA at Vanderbilt.
UNIV. SO. CALIFORNIA at California.
Clemson at KENTUCKY.
Navy at UNIV. OF PENNSYLVANIA.
University of So. Dak. at ARMY.
Washington and Lee at V. P. I.

Would It Surprise You to Know That—
Forrest F. Cole, of Dallas, Texas, who lost a bet on the World’s Series, must knock flies all the way
from Dallas to Philadelphia. Ernest Littrel, his betting opponent, must accompany him, furnishing a fungo bat and balls. They started
October 15 and hope to be in Philly by February 1.—Despite the slight variation in one name from the famous
original, Coach Lipe of Marquette University always has to suppress a snicker from his players when he orders “Gallagher and
Sheehan” to go into the backfield.—McCauley McEver, of V. P. I. and Gene McEver, of Tennessee, are brothers.—Carlston, Penn halfback,
who returned a kickoff 96 yards for the Quakers’ first 1929 touchdown, counted five touchdowns after receiving kicks in the
Cornell-Penn frosh game last year.—And his brother, Earle, booted Columbia’s first 1929 field goal.—Paul Schissler, Oregon Aggie’s mentor, has given
assistant coaching jobs to four men who starred for him at Lombard College.—Cannonball Clyde Crabtree and Royce Goodbreed, Florida’s star
halfbacks, plan to take up aviation next year.—Wisconsin’s captain, John Parks, sells dance programs, writes newspaper articles, and waits on
tables for college education funds.—President Hoover met the California team just prior to the Pennsylvania game.—Bo Cuis-ner,

Cheerleading Positions Sought By Twenty Men
Eleven Sophomores and Nine Freshmen Among the Large Number of Candidates

A call for cheerleaders has been issued by McClenaghan and McAllister, and about twenty men have responded, and are being
instructed by these two cheerleaders. The aspiring cheerleaders will get their practice at the Freshman games, where they will act
as cheerleaders until their Junior year. At the beginning of their Junior year, an election will be held to choose
the two men that the student body thinks deserve the honor of being assistant cheerleaders. The new men are taking
a great deal of interest in this work, and if it continues the Freshmen will do a great deal of
yelling at their games. The first opportunity for these new cheerleaders to show their ware will probably be when the
Freshmen play the State Freshmen.

Those who have responded to this call are: H. M. McKinnon, Rosser Elkins, R. D. Powell, W. H. Matthews, R.
L. Torrence, E. L. Gorham, R. P. Davis, J. G. Hughes, J. T. Welsh, D. G. Stephenson, H. L. Carr,
S. J. Bryant, T. A. Bryant, C. F. Myers, N. M. Caldwell, J. E. Lake, D. S. Currie, Norman Raies,
B. B. Sugg, and J. A. Bagby.

Halverstadt Takes Tennis Tournament
A. N. Halverstadt won the Fall Tennis Tourney by defeating E. Z. DuBose in the finals 6-3; 6-4, 6-2. Halverstadt
defeated Poe in the semi-finals while DuBose was disposing of Captain Johnston. The first two sets of the finals match
were played on Tuesday afternoon and the final set was played Wednesday. Both played steady tennis and took few chances
and the match was much closer than the score indicates.

Halverstadt played No. 3 on the varsity last season and was outstanding. He also displayed fine tennis during the summer
season and should turn in wins in most of his matches this season.

DuBose was No. 1 and Captain of last year’s Freshman team and was easily the best in the class. He
also showed up well in summer tournament play and is expected to take the place vacated by J. T. Roddey,
last year’s Varsity captain.Wisconsin’s 1928 star, is head backfield coach there now.—West Virginia’s captain is “Sleepy” Glenn.

Reports Are Issued

The first reports of the year were received by students Wednesday, October 30. At the same time, duplicates were sent
to parents or guardians. These reports cover six weeks’ work, based on the monthly reviews and daily recitations. Mid-semester reports
are issued at Thanksgiving, while the final reports of the semester will be received in January.

Literary Societies In Active Sessions

Election of New Officers for Second Term Features Philanthropic Meeting

The regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society, which was held on Tuesday, October 22, was a very important one,
as it was at this time that new officers were elected. The regular program of the society was not adhered
to, since the whole time was occupied by the election. The incoming officers are as follows: Frank S. Erwin, president;
C. E. Kraemer, vice-president; H. W. Ryburn, secretary; H. E. Russell, first critic; W. T. Ratchford, second critic; T. E.
Moody, first supervisor; E. E. Shore, second supervisor.

The meetings are usually held on Tuesday, but the meeting was not held this week in courtesy to Dr. Sam
Glasgow who was conducting evangelistic services. At the next regular scheduled meeting on November 5, a debate will be held
which should be of interest to every Davidson student. The question is “Resolved that Davidson College Should be Co-educational.” The
affirmative will be upheld by E. H. Coker and H. E. Russell. Literary societies have always played a large part
in student life at Davidson, and they hope that interest will not lag when such a topic as this is
being discussed. Everyone is cordially invited, and it is desired that there be a large attendance.

At the last meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society on October 22, two interesting talks made up the program. Norman
Raies gave some current events, while Mr. Williams gave a feature article.

Inter-Class Track Meet To Begin November 4

Next Monday, November 4, the annual inter-class track meet will begin and continue through the entire week. Each of the
four classes will be represented by a team selected from the entire class so that unlike other inter-class sports, varsity
letter men will be eligible for participation in track. However, only three men from a class will be allowed in
each event.

To the winners three distinct and very handsome trophies will be given and after winning any one of these for
three consecutive years, the class may retain it permanently. It is hoped that every student of even slight ability will
report to defend the honor of his class. Captain Pritchett, assisted by Heath Whittle, will be in charge of the
meet.

The “As You Like It” Club will meet at the home of Mrs. J. M. Douglas Friday afternoon. Mr. T.
W. Lingle will give a lecture on her trip abroad which she had this summer.

Mooresville Scouts Defeat Local Troop

The Davidson Scouts played the Mooresville Scouts last Friday on Richardson Field. A hard-fought game was played by both teams,
but due to the fact that Mooresville had a much heavier team, they carried away a twelve to six victory
over the Davidson Eleven. This was the first defeat the Davidson Scouts have met during the season. The Davidson Eleven
put up a gallant fight and threatened to score several times; but each time they were driven back, until E.
Slaughter plunged around the end for their touchdown. They failed to get their extra point because the team was lacking
in having an “educated toe.” Carlye Lewis, quarterback and captain of the team, also made several plays that are worthy
of mention. Heath Whittle, scout master of the boys, has several games scheduled for the season. Sometime in the near
future they expect to play Rock Hill and then Statesville. They are going to Barium Springs November 12 to play
the scouts of that city. This is expected to be a close game.

WILDKITTENS TO PLAY (Continued from Page 1)

The records of the elevens this year point to a hotly-contested struggle tomorrow. The following is the probable line-up of
the two teams:

Davidson Position State
Biesecker -------- LE -------- Duke
McFayden ------- LT -------- Cobb
Ogden ----------- LG -------- Martin
Gardner (C) ---- Center ----- Espey
Bittle ------------ RG -------- Matlock
Wagoner -------- RE -------- Stroupe
Barrier ---------- QB -------- Gurneau
Gantt ------------ LH -------- Comiskey
Mills ------------- RH -------- Waddell
Cavan ------------ FB -------- Goodman
Pearce ----------- OB -------- Kavell

Town News

Mrs. Frazer Hood has as her guest Miss Wagner from Water Valley, Mississippi. Miss Wagner and Miss Kalista Hood will
leave in a few days on a motor trip to California.

Miss Jane Leighton Richards and Miss Eva Buchanan from Converse College were the weekend guests of Dr. and Mrs. C.
M. Richards.

Mrs. E. J. Erwin has had as her guest for several months her mother, Mrs. Brown, who has returned to
her home in Atlanta.

The Sorosis Club will meet Saturday night at the home of Mrs. N. T. Smith.

Mrs. Crawford, mother of Mrs. S. G. Lyon, is visiting here.

Prof. J. P. Williams and Mr. F. L. Jackson went to Raleigh on business last week.

The American history class of Davidson High School went to the Kings Mountain battlefield Monday.

Misses Dorothy Finlayson and Louise Thompson spent the weekend with the girls from Davidson who attend N. C. C. W.

The “Eta Bita Pi Club” will meet Thursday night at the home of Mrs. J. R. Caldwell.

Dr. C. M. Richards is teaching a class in the Teachers Training School which is being held at the Second
Presbyterian Church of Charlotte the first six days of this week.

Mrs. Sloan is at Dr. Long’s Sanitarium in Statesville for treatment and an operation.

DAVIDSON-WAKE FOREST SUMMARY

First downs -------- 5 10
Ground gained from scrimmage ---- 106 yds 183 yds
Ground gained from passes -------- 36 yds 8 yds
Passes attempted ---- 15 3
Passes completed ---- 4 2
Passes intercepted --- 0 1
Average length punts and kickoffs --- 34 yds 37 yds
Penalties ----------- 20 yds 25 yds

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

“VOILA!” A stiff exam, a round o’ gym, Demand your vigor, verve and vim; Ambitious studes must keep in trim:
Eat LANCE’S foods—get in the swim: “Excel, sir!”

MAKE THIS STORE YOUR HEADQUARTERS STUDENT SUPPLIES OF ALL KINDS NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK

W. S. HENDERSON “DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

PAPER One pound (60 Sheets) College seal with package envelopes 98c Make our store your store

White Drug Company “SODA” “SUNDRIES”

STICKERS

We have a new pattern Davidson Sticker on the way. Within one week there will be plenty of them.

Students’ Store “It’s Yours, Why Not Patronize It?”
