THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1929

ATHLETIC

Side Line Shots At the ’Cats Against Big Five Teams
By P. R. Alderman

From all appearances, the Wildcats are getting a habit of holding back in the first half and then turning loose with a double amount of determination and fight in the second period. This custom was taken up in the Citadel game and proved so profitable that the Cats continued it in the Wake Forest, V. M. I., and State contests with victory resulting once and a close contest twice.

There were a lot of things to make that win over the highspots of the followers of the Red an important one. Perhaps the most significant of these was the fact that this is the first Big Five game that the latter have won since 1926 when the final result was the State championship. Maybe this has broken a long losing streak and the Cats are ready to cause trouble with Big Five members.

Although our passes were not working as well as usual against the State eleven, the two touchdowns that proved the latter’s defeat came by the aerial route. Two of their heaves found the waiting arms of McCall and DeCamp. Joe doesn’t seem to think he’s had his fun out of a game until he’s nabbed a pass from somebody and galloped 70 or 80 yards for a tally. That suits us!

The two most costly things to the Wolfpack last Saturday were their fumbles and passes. Bud Raker and the rest of the line had the old pigskin so well covered that they were on it the second it was free. If the opposing eleven has a tendency to fumble, the way most open to victory is to grab these miscues before they can be recovered.

All in all, neither the Wildcats nor the Wolfpack were at their best last week. Both were off in their passing attacks, their line-bucking was comparatively weak, and fumbles proved costly, especially to the latter. The fact that the Cats were due for a letdown after their great fight against V. M. I. and the comparative greenness of the Tech eleven had a lot to do with this.

Two more games and it will all be over, but what games they are! The North Carolina Tar Heels broadcast the fact that they are one of the strongest in Dixie by their 40-0 victory over the South Carolina Gamecocks down at Columbia. As has been said, their great season has been marred only by one quarter of the Georgia game.

Duke seems to be on their feet at last. After undertaking a schedule that would have been tough for an even stronger team, the Blue Devils have pulled together and in their first conference game downed L. S. U. by a four-touchdown victory. They have not met a member of the Big Five yet but will prove trouble.

There’s not a chance in a thousand that anyone would predict a victory for the Wildcats over Carolina today, but the chance is almost equally slim that anybody would forecast that the Tar Heels will leave their first stringers at home. The Cats have run true to form so far and played their worst game against Wake Forest, which indicates that one of their best exhibitions is due today.

’Cats Intercept Passes To Down State Eleven
Davidson Overcomes Wolfpack 13-0 to Score First “Big Five” Win of Year

The Davidson Wildcats, playing wide-awake football against N. C. State last Saturday, trounced the Wolfpack by a score of 13 to 0. The 'Cats took advantage of every break of the game and turned them all to their favor. Several State fumbles were recovered by red-jerseyed players and the Wildcats intercepted five passes. Two of the intercepted heaves proved the undoing of the Wolfpack for both of the Davidson counters resulted from them.

Late in the third quarter, Brock and DeCamp rushed an attempted State pass, the former batting the ball into the hands of the latter, who ran to the State one-yard line. Fraley rammed the ball over and Brock missed the point after the touchdown. Near the middle of the last period, the pack tried a long pass from midfield, and McCall intercepted it on his own 30-yard line. He had a good start and outran the entire State team to score. Brock kicked the goal to make the score 13 to 0 in favor of Davidson.

Neither team showed much in the way of prolonged offensive power at any time. Late in the first stanza, a poor punt enabled State to carry the ball to Davidson’s 14-yard line, but there they lost it on downs. Davidson kicked and Proctor recovered a fumble onState’s 47-yard line. Davidson was rushed off their feet at the beginning of the third period and found State deep in their territory. A 25-yard dash by Milton and a 10-yard gain by Wright featured the advance. But just as things were beginning to look bad, McCall rushed in and intercepted a pass to give Davidson the ball. The Wildcat offense was confined strictly to a running attack. Although a number of passes were tried, none were completed, the ‘Cats showing up bad in that department, but the defense that Coach Monk had given them for their opponent’s passes was working to perfection. Wright and Jeffrey played good games in the State backfield, their work giving the ’Cat forwards a great deal of trouble. Melton got off one or two nice runs, but he was covered for the most part. Captain Lepo played a good game in the line. The Davidson ends, Brock and Proctor, were outstanding in the line. Proctor was wide awake all the time, recovering two fumbles by the Wolfpack. Parker at tackle and Milton at center also showed up well. McCall continued his fine work in the backfield and he was ably assisted by Parrish. Fraley backed up the line in fine style, as well as playing a brilliant offensive game.

Lineup:
Davidson Position N. C. State
Brock (c) -------- LE -------- Morgan
Parker -------- LT -------- Vann
Lepo (c) -------- LG -------- Decamp
Milton -------- Center -------- Stout
Mathis -------- RG -------- May
Covington -------- RT -------- Smathers
Proctor -------- RE -------- Jordan
Fraley -------- QB -------- Wright
Parrish -------- LH -------- Dellinger
McCall -------- RH -------- Davant
King -------- FB -------- Jeffrey

Score by periods:
Davidson -------- 0 0 6 7—13
N. C. State -------- 0 0 0 0—0

Scoring: Davidson touchdowns, McCall, Fraley. Point after touchdown, Brock (place kick).

Officials: Referee, Carrington (Virginia); umpire, Magoffin (Michigan); linesman, Brewer (Maryland).

Dr. Porter Vinson, Davidson alumnus, foremost specialist on the esophagus, and member of the Mayo Clinic of Rochester, Minn., has been visiting his sister, Miss Maude Vinson, for the past week.

Davidson-State Statistics:
First Downs -------- 8 -------- 7
Penalties -------- 20 yds. -------- 25 yds.
Ground gained from scrimmage -------- 129 yds. -------- 113 yds.
Ground gained on passes -------- 0 -------- 29 yds.
Passes attempted -------- 11 -------- 13
Passes completed -------- 0 -------- 3
Passes intercepted -------- 5 -------- 1
Average length of punts and kick-offs -------- 32 yds. -------- 34 yds.
Fumbles -------- 0 -------- 3
Fumbles recovered -------- 3 -------- 1
Average yardage passes completed -------- 0 -------- 10 yds.

All Americans Win Over Gastonia Team
Bradshaw Star for Davidson—Whisnant for Losers

Last Monday the Wildcat All Americans journeyed to Gastonia and won a victory from the latter 12-6. Although the Davidson eleven outplayed the home team, the score at the end of the half was tied, 6-6, the Gastonia touchdown being scored in the last thirty seconds of play in the second quarter by a beautiful pass from Whisnant to Griggs, who took the ball to Davidson's two-inch line. There the Wildcats made a typical stand with their backs to the wall, and held for three downs, only to give way to a plunge by Whisnant who took the ball over. Ledyard DeCamp, who has proven one of the outstanding workers in the Davidson line this year, intercepted a Wolfpack pass. Bradshaw, Dick Bradshaw again carrying the ball over for the Wildcats. It was a Davidson game all the way through, the Bradshaw brothers starring. Covington, whose punting was outstanding, and Whisnant were best for Gastonia.

Mr. Sam Black of Davidson is changing his headquarters from New York to Albemarle.

---

SPRINKLE YOUR DAY WITH CAMEL'S CHEER

Consider the pleasure that curls from each Camel. Let it mark the stops and turns of a busy day and sprinkle your thoughts and moods with its rare aroma. As you pass from one thing to another, call “time out” now and then for a fragrant interlude and have a Camel just because it’s good! Always count on Camels for an extra measure of pleasure. They never tire your taste nor leave an unpleasant aftertaste. To have a Camel “just because it’s good” means you'll find each Camel cool and refreshing... mild and mellow... blended from the choicest tobaccos grown.

1929, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.