April 25, 1929 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

THE LATEST

Cats Show Great Form to Overcome Tigers by Large Score

Davidson Loses To Elon Diamond Men

How They Hit

Player AB H Pet.
Mclnnis 12 6 .497
Ratchford 39 8 .274
Proctor 47 15 .319
Secrest 46 13 .283
Goodson 49 13 .265
Miller 34 9 .264
Littlejohn 30 6 .200
Ratchford 10 2 .200
Williams 48 8 .198
Londham 23 4 .174
Floud 49 8 .163
Davidson 6 0 .000
Clean 2 0 .000
Saustone 4 0 .000
Totals 288 99 218

The Davidson Wildcat track team downed Clemson by a margin of 28 points. Judging from past meets, the Cat trackmen show mighty good prospects of being one of the strong contenders at the State meet early in May. The Tar Heels will probably be the strongest bidder for the championship, according to the tasks that eat Georgia Tech a sound rubbing last week, but Captain Pritchett's men will be right in there. The Wildcats by the score of 4-1. McInnis, Ratchford, and Proctor led the home team at the plate, each getting a two-bagger and a single out of four times at bat. McInnis scored the Cat’s lone run in the third inning after being sacrificed to second, and scoring on an error.

The Wildcat baseball nine successfully closed its invasion of Virginia by defeating the University of Virginia in a somewhat raggedly played game at Charlottesville, April 17th. The victory over the Cavaliers was the second turned in on the trip, three games having been played in all, with the Cats winners twice. Elon scored in the first and eighth frames.

The student council of Louisiana is having her way in the state with Spring athletics. Week before last the Tar Heel golf team copped the state championship and last week her racketeers were also crowned state champions. Although Frontis Johnston of Davidson went to the semi-finals in the singles, he was finally defeated, Carolina winning the championship in the singles as well as in the doubles.

That Virginia trip didn’t turn out so bad after all. Although two of the games were rained out, Monk's nine succeeded in winning two of the three left. All the games were marked by many errors and hits on both sides, but the Cats improved with each game, beating the Virginia Cavaliers 5-2 in the final game of the tour. “Irish” McInnis garnered the most hits in this game, connecting for a single and a double out of three times up.

There will undoubtedly be some championship talent uncovered as the interfraternity baseball tournament gets under way. Monk would tear his hair in chagrin could he witness the star twirlers, first sackers, short stops, and others as they bring the tense grandstand to its feet with hair-raising plays. Time only will prove the champion for this year, but it can truly be said that it’s going to be a close race.

Whittle, Currie, and McCall proved to be Clemson’s biggest obstacles in the Cat-Tiger meet last Saturday. Each chalked up two firsts, Whittle being high-scorer of the day with Currie running a close second. Joe McCall is beginning to look good for ten points about every time he performs the broad jump and hurls the javelin. He was one of the strongest men on the Fresh track squad last year.

Well, one Davidson record went up the creek in the meet last week. This was the discus mark of 121 ft. and 11 in. and was broken by Sporty Regan when he hurled it for a new mark of 122 ft. Sporty is at his best in the weights this year, having shown promise of being a consistent point winner during the past two seasons. He and Leftwich are expected to work with the dash in winning the majority of the Wildcat’s points during the rest of the season.

The famous old seventh inning failed to save the Elon game last Monday by a very close margin. Johnnie McInnis connected for a beautiful single over third, but the rally was cut short. A final rally in the ninth frame also proved hopeful for a few minutes, McInnis again connecting for a clean single, but the Elon boys were playing airtight ball and this too fell short. It was a pitcher’s battle up to the ninth, Briggs of Elon having a slight edge on Buck Marrow, who twirled eight innings for the Cats.

ANOTHER FAIRY STORY

The college girl who is too lazy to write home for money.

A well-dressed college man’s shirts got too small for him, so he began to wear them unbuttoned at the neck, and thousands of prep school boys thought it style!

California Pelican

Sweethearts are like shoes. You’re proudest of the ones that make the best impression on your friends. But it’s the ones that don’t cause you any suffering that you get most attached to.

Without a doubt, some of our fellow students have camel feet—they go days and days without water.

Clemson won the 880, mile, and two-mile runs to get their only wins in the track events. The other firsts of the visitors came in the high jump and in the discus, where they nosed out the Wildcat representatives for first honors but split the second and third places.

One of the outstanding events of the meet was Sporty Regan’s record-breaking heave of the discus. He tossed the platter over 122 feet to crack the old Davidson record of 121 feet eleven inches, which has stood for several years. However, this was not quite far enough to win the event, which went to Lester of Clemson.

Davidson was supreme in the dashes and hurdles, as was predicted. Currie came through in good form to win the 100-yard dash and the two twenty. He also placed third in the 440-yard dash. Brohard won this event and Kell came in second to give the ‘Cats a clean sweep in this event. The time was 52 seconds flat.

Heath Whittle sailed over the hurdles in very good time and came in first in both timber events. He won the 120 high hurdles in 15.6 seconds, within one-tenth of a second of his best time, and then won the lows in 26.2 seconds, to tie his record in that event. He also tied for second place in the century. Heath was in just about the best form he has shown this year.

Lineberger of Clemson, and Currie, Whittle, and McCall of Davidson each won two events. Whittle was high-point man, getting twelve points, and Currie was second with eleven. Lineberger and McCall each got ten points apiece.

Summary: 100-yard dash, Currie, D, first; Whittle D, and Hane C. tied for second. Time 10 sec. Mile run, Lineberger, C.Ely, D, Wilkerson, D, time, 4 min, 28.8 sec. 220 yard dash, Currie, D, Brohard, D, Hane, C, time 23.2 seconds. 120 yard High hurdles, Whittle, D, Blakeney, C, Blanchard, C, time 15.6 sec. 440 yard run Brohard D. Kell D, Currie, D, time 52 sec. flat. Two mile run, Andrews C, Flinn, C, Russell, D, time 10 min. 38 sec. 220 low hurdles, Whittle D. George, D, Wise, C. Time 26.2 sec. 880 yard run, Lineberger, C, Lafferty, D, Neal D, time 2 min. 3 sec. Pole vault, Bailey, Smith, and Brock, all Davidson, tied for first height 10 feet 4 inches. High jump, Howard C, first, Carter, C, and Calhoun, Gardner, and Dumas, all Davidson tied for second, Height 5 ft. 9 in. Broad jump, McCall D. Howard C, Jordan C, Distance 21 ft. 3 1/2 in. Shot put, Leftwich, D, Lester C, Davis C, 41 ft. 1 in. Discus, Lester C. Regan D, Davis C, distance 131 ft. 4 1/2 in. Javelin McCall D, Odell C, King D, Distance 158 ft. 2 1/2 in.

“They say that Shackleton pawned all of his night shirts last summer.”
“How was that?”
“Well, you see he had a job as night watchman.”

“Chickens, suh,” said the Negro sage, “is de usefulest animal dere is. You can eat ‘em fo’ dey is bo'n an’ after dey’s dead.”

“Doesn't that mule ever kick you Sam?”
“No, suh,” grinned the darkie, “but he frequently kicks the place where Ah’ recently was.”

Do you know why blushes creep over girls’ faces?
Why no, and why, pray tell?
Because if they ran they would kick up too much dust.

Teacher: Now Johnny, what is a pretzel?
Johnny: A pretzel, teacher, is a doughnut gone crazy.

Winners don’t quit; quitters don't win.

Pitcher and Outfielder who is playing his varsity and who is hitting the ball hard.

Duke and State to Be Met by ’Cat Nine
Monk’s Men to Meet Strong Teams on Present Trip

The Wildcat nine left this morning for the lair of the Duke Blue Devils and the State Wolfpack. The Devils are to be engaged today, while the State College aggregation will be met Friday afternoon on Riddick field. Both games are severe tests for the Wildcats and will decide to a large extent their final standing in the State. State and Duke have strong ball clubs, as their records so far this season indicate. Both teams have downed some of the strongest college and university nines in this section of the country. Davidson has also had a fairly successful season, defeating Washington and Lee and the University of Virginia. The batteries of State and Duke are among the strongest in the State, especially Jenkins of the Devils, and Capt. Allgood, of the Wolfpack, but Marrow, McInnis and Kugler, of Davidson, are in mid-season form, and some close pitchers’ duels are expected.

Ratchford and his men have been hitting fairly consistently in the last few games, and are expected to be in good form today and tomorrow.

Tramp: “You know the saying, mum, ‘He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord.”
Mrs. Subbubs: “Very true. And since you speak in proverbs, I'll refer you to another old saw.”
Tramp: “Which one is that, mum?”
Mrs. S. “The one back in the woodshed.”

“In a couple of years you're going to have to look up to me.”
“How's that?”
“I'm going to be a window cleaner.” —Cadet Days.

I'd surely like to smash the clown who insists on shouting, “I faw down—go boom!”

Jack (on phone): Will you please put Elizabeth on the wire?
Mr. Hazle: What do you think my daughter is—a tight-rope walker?

Oberlin College has followed the lead of those higher educational institutions, which have abolished the six-letter grading system. In the future, Oberlin students will either “pass” or “fail”, and they'll never know whether it was a pass by a D or an A.

The “Kings,” wrote: “The most powerful king on earth is Wor-king; the laziest, Shir-king; one of the worst kings is Smo-king; the wittiest, Jo-king; the quietest, Thin-king; the thirstiest, Drin-king; the slyest, Win-king, and the noisiest, Tal-king.”

They were only bridge girls, but they fought for their honors.

Young man, why do I find you kissing my daughter?
Because you’re wearing rubber heels, sir.

Davidson managed to convert Cavalier errors into three runs, which proved to be the margin of victory. The Wildcats started the scoring in the first inning and were never overtaken. Errors in the second paved the way for two more runs and the remaining tallies came in the fifth and ninth. Virginia threatened in both the eighth and ninth but in each case the rally was nipped by a double play. Marrow, on the mound for Davidson, pitched a fine game, striking out six men. He also proved very effective in the pinches. McInnis was the big man with the stick, getting two hits in three trips to the plate, one of which was a double. Byrd and Sloan were best for the Cavaliers, with two each in four turns at bat. Following is the summary:

Virginia: 010 000 010—2 7 2
Davidson: 120 010 001—5 8 3

Batteries: Virginia; Ellis, Long and Lewis. Davidson; Marrow and Armfield.

Fresh Netmen Win From Charlotte Hi

The Davidson Freshmen opened their tennis season Saturday before last, defeating Charlotte High School team by a score of 5 to 1. The Freshmen have a number of tournaments scheduled for future dates. Among the teams to be played are Darlington School, Columbia High, Charlotte High, Winston-Salem High, Duke Freshmen, and Carolina Freshmen. The members of the Fresh team are DuBose, T. McLean, S. McLean and Fain.

Out of the six matches played only one match was lost, Craver of Charlotte defeating T. McLean of Davidson. The results are as follows: DuBose (D) defeated Robinson (C) 3-6 6-2 6-2; S. McLean (D) defeated Lansford (C) 6-2 6-4; Craver (C) defeated T. McLean (D) 5-7 12-10 7-5; Fain (D) defeated Jones (C) 6-1 6-0; DuBose and Fain (D) defeated Robinson and Lansford (C) 7-5 6-1; McLean and McLean (D) defeated Jones and Craver 6-1 (one set by agreement).

“I think,” said Miss Cayenne, “that I shall marry a jazz musician.”
“Because of his melody?”
“Partly. And partly because a woman whose husband is in an orchestra always knows where he is nights.”

In the first, a single was given to Briggs when his drive hit the umpire, and Smith, second man up, connected squarely for a home run. In the eighth, two more runs were scored on a single, a stolen base, a triple and a double. In the eighth, Meadows took Marrow’s place at bat, and Kugler pitched.

Elon: 200 000 020—4 11 3
Davidson: 000 000 100—1 7 2

State University has been forced to require pledges from the students that they will not cut the hair from the heads of unruly members, but will resort to saner means of regulating the conduct of these students.

Batteries: Elon, Briggs, V. and Shepherd. Davidson, Marrow, Kugler, and Armfield.

THE CURRENT FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK STYLES IN CLOTHES, HATS, AND HABERDASHERY FOR LOUNGE, SPORTS AND CAMPUS USAGE WILL BE EXHIBITED IN YOUR TOWN ON DATE GIVEN BELOW. YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND. On display at MISS MINNIE SCHOFIELD’S Today and Tomorrow Joseph S. Branch, Rep.

The University of North Carolina
The School of Law
SUMMER SESSION 1929

First Term, June 17 to July 24—PUBLIC UTILITIES. Professor William Thompson, Cornell University. FEDERAL TAXATION. Mr. F. D. Siefkin, United States Board of Tax Appeals. CONSTITUTIONAL LAW. Judge G. W. Connor, Supreme Court of North Carolina. CONTRACTS. Professor M. T. VanHeckle, University of North Carolina. Domestic RELATIONS. Professor A. C. McIntosh, University of North Carolina.

Second Term, July 25 to August 31—TRUSTS. Professor George G. Bogert, University of Chicago. BANKRUPTCY. Professor George J. Britton, University of Illinois. NORTH CAROLINA PLEADING AND PRACTICE. Judge W. J. Brogden, Supreme Court of North Carolina. CRIMINAL LAW. Professor Albert Coates, University of North Carolina. CONTRACTS. Professor M. T. Van Hecke, University of North Carolina.

Beginning students may enter in summer and take first year subjects. Credit for one-third of a full year’s work may be secured in the summer. Write for announcement and information.
C. T. McCORMICK, Dean, Chapel Hill, N.C.