THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1929

SIDE LINE SHOTS

At the “Scrappiest Eleven” in the Country
By P. R. Alderman

Judging from current comments, opinions and what-not, there doesn’t seem to be much complaint on the part of Davidson about the Wildcat-Tiger clash last Saturday. And why should there be? We came out on the small end of the score because it couldn’t be helped. A real Davidson team with that old Wildcat spirit entered the field Saturday against a great football machine that had practically all odds in their favor and gave them a battle that won't be forgotten any time soon. Nobody could ask for more because they gave all they had and, with the backing of an equally enthused student body, handed a surprise to the football world in general.

It’s always very hard, almost impossible, to pick out any one or two men on a Wildcat team who outshone their teammates in a game because all are almost equally deserving of praise and mention. But the work of Captain Thad Brock in the line and “Red” Parrish and Joe McCall in the backfield against Clemson was nothing less than spectacular. Whatever his duties, offensive or defensive, Thad more than once showed himself to be of all-state calibre. While two fleet-footed and elusive backs, McCall and Parrish, were a constant threat to the Tiger’s goal. The former's 85-yard run and the 68-yard one of the latter furnished two of the high spots of the game as well as Davidson’s two touchdowns.

Let’s not forget the rest of the eleven, however, in giving due mention to these men. Outweighed between 15 and 16 pounds to the man, they forced their much stronger opponents to take to the air and resort to end-runs to score 32 points. That thin Red and Black line was tried as it will probably not be tried again this season and it proved too sturdy for the good of line-plunging Clemson backs. This was well-proven when it took four downs for the Tigers to advance a little over two yards for their only touchdown that was not the result directly of end-runs and passes. They just wouldn't back up.

Too much can’t be said in behalf of the Davidson eleven, but there is quite a bit of credit due the Clemson squad, especially one or two of its well-known members. Anyone looking for speed certainly must have enjoyed the game greatly, because there was plenty of it, and Johnny Justice, fleet Tiger halfback, exhibited his share of it. His ability to skirt around end almost before the rest of the men got into action, coupled with McMillan’s deadly passing, proved the two most disastrous factors of the day to the Wildcats. In fact, these two events, happening so continuously, accounted indirectly for all of Clemson’s touchdowns and directly for four of them.

There will be other games this year, however, and no doubt Monk and Tex will see to it that a better defense against a passing attack is developed before many more Saturdays come and go. This has proved a weakness, and a very costly one, in Wildcat teams for the past two seasons, as was evidenced by the Carolina game of last year. But Davidson is pretty severely handicapped by the lack of tall men, especially on ends, and it takes men of pretty good height to very effectively combat a strong aerial attack. As is clearly evident, though, a good defense against it.

Clemson Tigers Use Air Route To Down Wildcats
Runs of McCall and Parrish Feature Game—McMillan and Pustus Star

Before the largest crowd ever to witness a football game in Charlotte, the Davidson Wildcats fought the Clemson Tigers to a standstill through ding-dong football, only to have a possible victory taken from their grasp by a brilliant passing attack. The Tigers, outweighing Davidson almost twenty pounds to the man, found their weight of little advantage to them against that indomitable Wildcat fight, and it was not until the fourth quarter that they could run up the score on the exhausted Cats. Three-quarters of the game packed into its sixty-minute duration all the thrills the most rabid football fan could desire. It saw an underdog rise to supreme heights. It was full of sparklingDefensive plays, lightning-like passes, and sweeping end-runs. And to cap the climax, the game showed one of those rarities of football—a touchdown from the kickoff. Late in the fourth quarter, Joe McCall caught a Tiger kickoff on his own ten-yard line. Tucking the ball under his arm, he headed up the sidelines behind perfect interference that mowed down every would-be tackler. He left them all behind in midfield and raced on across the goal-line untouched. This was undoubtedly the outstanding play of the entire contest. It would be impossible to pick out any one man and label him the star of this game. But in the final analysis, it was those seven fighting Wildcats who made up that “thin red line” to whom most of the praise belongs. Facing what is generally conceded to be one of the most powerful forward walls in the South, that line refused to give against the most determined charges of the Tigers. They went into the game determined to do every-

(Continued on page 6)

Such is the prime need of the team this year, because that line holds its own against off-tackle plays and the like. Quite a bit of diversified opinion is abroad concerning this year’s freshman team, but generally the comments are more favorable than otherwise. It’s true they haven't made as good a showing in scrimmages with the Varsity as could be desired, but they’ve got some good material out there and “Red” Laird will undoubtedly make the best of it. The results of their clash with the Oak Ridge cadets tomorrow will clear up a lot of questions about this year’s kittens. They’ve got a strong opponent for the first match but with about three and one-half weeks practice ought to give the prep-schools all the competition they could desire.

Captain Thad Brock, star left-end on Davidson's 1929 football eleven, whose work in last Saturday’s clash with the strong Clemson Tigers proved one of the outstanding features of the day.

Kittens Play First Contest Tomorrow

Tomorrow afternoon “Red” Laird, freshman coach, will send his Wildkittens against Oak Ridge at Oak Ridge. This is the initial game of the season for the Freshmen and the second for the cadets. They battled Hargrave Military Academy last Saturday, defeating them on the Virginians’ own soil, 7-0, in a hard-fought game. Oak Ridge scored in the first five minutes of play. In past years the prep school’s teams have proven exceptionally strong, and since the fresh material this year is very promising, according to Coach Laird, the game will be close as in the past. Oak Ridge defeated the Wildkittens last year by the score of 18-0 and the year before 11-0.

The tentative line-up for Friday's clash is:

Davidson. Oak Ridge
Brooks, Cannon.---LE --- Morgan
Wagner --- LT --- Drye
Opie --- LG --- Griggs
Gardener --- C --- Newberry
Menze --- RG --- Swisher
McFayden --- RT --- Tucker
Pierce, Barter --- RE --- Jowdy
Pierce, McDonald --- QB --- Gold
Hale --- LH --- Whitener
Gavette --- RH --- Walton
Mackie --- FB --- Tyson (C)

Mills, Mullins, Peabody, and Skinney Pierce will not be used Friday by Coach Laird due to injuries sustained in the last few days’ practice.

A good paint job will conceal the years but the lines tell the real story. Wherein a modern girl and a car are very much alike.
—Annapolis Log.

STUDENTS, ATTENTION!

For self-supporting students desiring fascinating, remunerative work either temporary or permanent, may I suggest that many students of both sexes have earned scholarships and cash sufficient to defray all college expenses, representing national magazine publishers. If interested, write or wire for details to M. A. Steele, National Organizer, 5 Columbus Circle, New York, N. Y.

Exhibition at Miss Minnie Scofield’s Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 7th and 8th. John V. Howard, Rep.

THE MODEL SKETCHED OFFERS AN EXAMPLE OF THE TYPE OF GARMENT CONSIDERED MOST EFFECTIVE FOR FALL USAGE AMONG COLLEGE MEN. THE LINES ARE ENTIRELY CORRECT AND FOLLOW AUTHORITATIVE DICTATION. THE VARIETY OF WEAVES FROM WHICH SELECTIONS MAY BE MADE IS VERY BOUNTIFUL. INTEREST IS ALSO SOLICITED FOR CRAVATS, SHIRTS, WOOLIES, HATS, CAPS, FOOTWEAR, AND VARIOUS OTHER INCIDENTALS OF CORRECT DRESS.