CONVERSE GLEE CLUB SATURDAY—SHEARER

THE DAVIDSONIAN — FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

EVERYBODY BEHIND MONK’S BASEBALL TEAM

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 11, 1929 No. 24

Union Seminary Man Will Deliver Series Of Talks In Evangelistic Program

Dr. Richardson to Talk Here Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday

GRADUATED AT DAVIDSON

Former Missionary and Minister Will Give an Open Address at Shearer Hall Monday Night

In order to conduct the annual Mission Institute of the Y. M. C. A., Dr. Donald W. Richardson, former missionary to China and now professor at Union Theological Seminary, will be in Davidson next Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday, during which time he will make a number of addresses including an open address in Shearer Hall on Monday night. He will also preach in Church, speak at vespers, and to a joint meeting of the Ministerial and Volunteer Bands on Sunday afternoon at one-thirty. These services will take the place of the spring evangelistic program usually conducted by the Y. M. C. A.; their purpose is to instill the spirit of missions into the student body and appeal for the dedication of lives to full-time Christian work.

Doctor Richardson, a native of South Carolina, graduated from Davidson in 1902. While here he was a leader in literary, forensic, and religious fields. He was president of his class, vice-president of both Y. M. C. A. and the Student Body, editor-in-chief of both the Davidsonian and the Annual, president of the Eumenean Literary Society, and orator at Commencement. He later attended Johns Hopkins University and Princeton Theological Seminary and studied in the Universities of Berlin and Marburg. Upon his return to the United States he became pastor at Gree, S. C. In 1910 he received an appointment as a missionary of the Southern Presbyterian Church to the North China Mission as Principal of the Boy's School at Chinkiang. His unusual qualifications for the office were soon recognized and it was not long before he was looked upon as one of the outstanding Christian teachers in China. Since 1919 he has been the Professor of New Testament Interpretation in Nanking Seminary, vice-president and dean of the school. Nanking Seminary was closed with the evacuation of Nanking.

(Continued on page 4)

Myers Makes Last Vocational Address

Last on the Vocational Guidance program, sponsored by the “Y,” was Dr. Charlie Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro and father of Nelson Myers, who talked on the subject of “The Ministry As A Life's Calling.” Doctor Myers spoke of the age in which we live and how within the past one hundred years more strides in invention have taken place than in the preceding four thousand years. He said that a man of 36 is older than the automobile, airplane, wireless, and numerous other inventions. But throughout the centuries man has not changed as far as human personality is concerned. Therefore with all these gifts and advantages which we enjoy, we should be willing to let God use them and us as He wishes. There is no gift which God cannot use, if one is willing to consecrate himself. There is a niche for everyone according to God's plan. If one goes into the ministry he must have a real calling of the Lord and must have a genuine love for other people.

F. D. Miller Winner Of Junior Speaking

On March 27, F. D. Miller won the annual Junior Speaking contest which was held in Shearer Hall. The topic of the winning speech was “The Private in the Ranks.” Miller won over two opponents by a very close decision. The other two contestants were T. R. Nunan, who spoke on the “Life of Dwight L. Moody,” and E. E. Marsh whose subject was “The Prevention of War.” Dr. C. K. Brown, Prof. A. Currie, and Prof. E. J. Erwin, acted as judges. This part of the Junior Speaking program was in previous years the principal event and all members of the Junior Class took part in it. But of late the interest has changed to the social part of the program.

BROWN RETIRES AS EDITOR-IN-CHIEF OF COLLEGE PAPER

Ends Very Successful Year as Head of Weekly Publication

HAS MANY OTHER HONORS

Brown Plans to go to Union Theological Seminary Where He Will Continue His Studies

The retiring Editor-in-Chief of ‘The Davidsonian,” Aubrey N. Brown, is a figure who has stood high in the circles of campus activity since his arrival at Davidson four years ago. Early in his freshman year, Brown began to show his talents as a journalist, and much work of high calibre was turned in at the office of the college newspaper. In the spring elections of 1928, the student body gave evidence of its trust in the Texas lad by electing him to the position of Editor-in-Chief of “The Davidsonian.” Under the leadership of Brown, the college publication has enjoyed one of the most successful periods of its existence, and has proved itself a capable organ for student expression and comment. “The Davidsonian” has long been recognized as one of the best college papers, not only in this state, but in the entire South. The past year has seen no diminishing of the favorable comments in the columns of other sheets. The consistent high quality of the local paper has been praised extensively, and the rating of the publication among the very best has been maintained. Editor Brown introduced many new departments into the make-up of his paper, and these improved it to a great extent.

Many honors have fallen to the lot of the ex-editor in the course of his college career. Last spring he was given a bid to the local circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, highest student honor society. He is an active member of Sigma Upsilon, national literary society, and of Delta Pi Kappa, journalistic order. Membership in the Reporters Club and Golden Quill are other honors that have come to Brown. He is a member of the Ministerial Band. Next year will find him at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia, where he will pursue his studies for the ministry. Throughout his term of office, Brown has rendered conspicuous and praiseworthy service, and he leaves a task well accomplished.

Dr. Frazer Speaker At Y. M. C. A. Vespers

President of Queens College Talks on “The Steps in Abraham’s Faith”

“The Steps in Abraham's Faith” was the subject upon which Dr. W. H. Frazer, President of Queens College, addressed the members of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. at vespers Sunday evening in Shearer Hall. The speaker first related an incident of several men lost in the wilds finding safety through following footprints in the snow. He compared this to the way that Abraham and all true followers of God must follow certain footsteps in faith if they would find salvation. The first of these footsteps as exemplified in the life of Abraham was obedience to God. This grand old patriarch never hesitated to follow God's command regardless of any cost to himself. If we would follow this example, the world of today would be transformed in all its main life relationships. But most of us seek a short cut to happiness through following our own desires, which is a plan that can result only in failure whether we are seeking happiness or self-realization. Resignation was the second step in Abraham's faith, and is one of the most difficult tests. The ability to submit to the will of God when worldly possessions, fame, or honor are being swept away is the acid test of a man's religion.

MANAGERS CHOSEN FOR PUBLICATIONS FROM CLASS OF ’30

Hill, McCall, and Roberson Are Elected as Business Managers

PROMINENT MEN SELECTED

Annual Manager is Elected by Rising Senior Class and Other Two by Publications Board

Business managers for all three publications were elected during the last few weeks. The business managers of “The Davidsonian” and “The Chameleon,” were elected by the Publications Board, and the manager of “Quips and Cranks,” which is elected by the student body out of six men nominated (two from each publication). A. N. Brown, J. K. Covington, and W. L. Dumas constituted the board this year.

The manager of the Annual was elected by the rising Senior Class. W. R. Hill, of Statesville, N. C., was elected Business Manager of “Quips and Cranks.” Hill is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, social fraternity. He is taking a B.S. 1 course, is assistant baseball manager, Circulation Manager of the “Chameleon,” and was a member of the Beaver Club. The following men were in the running: L. C. Roberts, of Shelby, N. C.; L. A. Mills, of Greenville, S. C.; R. B. Erckman, of Hendersonville, N. C.; J. A. Wilson, of Montreat, N. C. These men were voted on by reason of their work during the last two years on the business side of the Senior yearbook. All but Roberts and Hill were eliminated on the first ballot.

I. H. McCall, of Salisbury, N. C., was elected business manager of “The Davidsonian.” He is a member of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity. McCall graduated from prep school at Darlington. E. L. Roberson, of Tarboro, N. C., was elected business manager of the “Chameleon.” He is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Roberson is taking a B.S. 1 course. He worked on the Annual staff and was assistant cheer-leader this year.

TIGERT TO SPEAK AT COMMENCEMENT

Dr. Tigert, president of the University of Florida, has been secured to deliver the literary address at the ninety-third annual commencement of Davidson College, according to an announcement made on April the 5th, by Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson. It had been announced in a previous issue of the Davidsonian that Dr. J. Ross Stevenson, president of Princeton Theological Seminary, Princeton, N. J., had accepted an invitation to deliver the baccalaureate sermon.

Doctor Tigert is a lecturer, author, and one of the most widely known educators in America today. Doctor Tigert was at one time head of the department of education in the United States with headquarters in Washington, D. C. After graduating from Vanderbilt University he was chosen as the first Rhodes scholar from Tennessee, and when he had completed his work at Oxford he studied at the University of Minnesota. He is much in demand as a speaker and is also widely recognized as an author of note, having written several books on philosophy and psychology. During his lifetime he has been connected with the University of Kentucky, Central College, and Kentucky Wesleyan. Institutions which have conferred honorary degrees upon Doctor Tigert are the University of Kentucky, Bates College, and the University of New Mexico.

(Continued on page 4)

NEW DAVIDSONIAN EDITORIAL STAFF SELECTED BY LONG

Wiley, McCutchan, Black, and Alderman Chosen by Editor-in-Chief

RISING JUNIORS HONOREDOnly Managing Editors and Sports Editor Have Been Appointed Up to Date

With the opening of a new regime in the handling of “The Davidsonian” comes the appointment of the new editorial staff by the Editor-in-Chief, Zeb V. Long, Jr. The staff swings into action with this issue and will control the destiny of the college paper for the coming year. The managing editors are S. S. Wiley, J. W. McCutchan, and J. B. Black, while Paul Alderman has been selected to manage the Sports Department. Feature editors have not been finally chosen, and these appointments will be made public at an early date. Wiley is from Salisbury, N.C., and has shown himself to be a promising journalist. He is a Roll) Student and a prominent member of the Sophomore Class. McCutchan hails from Warm Springs, Virginia, and has made himself prominent by his contributions to both “Davidsonian” and “Chameleon” during the past two years. Black, from Red Springs, N.C., has served faithfully in the editorial work of the paper and is an outstanding student of his class. Alderman, of Alcolu, S.C., has been a competent worker and a steady contributor to the paper. All four men are members of the Reporters Club and were recently elected to membership in Delta Pi Kappa, the journalistic fraternity. Wiley is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, Black of Pi Kappa Alpha, and Alderman of Pi Kappa Phi.

NEW LEADERS FOR CLASSES SELECTED

The elections of the officers for next year’s Senior class have not yet been completed but will doubtless be finished later this week. Up to date, W. B. McGuire has been chosen President and A. H. Whittle, Vice-President of this class. L. A. Mills, R. B. Berkman, and A. H. Whittle were nominated by the class for the office of Vice-President, and Whittle won on the second ballot. W. B. McGuire was automatically placed on the Student Council and R. M. Christian, T. W. Brohard, R. T. Nunan, W. G. McGavock, and Z. V. Long were also elected to the Council from a group of nominees which also included A. W. Lafferty, E. C. Aves, Miller, Cowan, E. L. Close, DeCamp, and D. K. Davis.

In the election of officers for the rising Junior class, C. H. Goodykoontz was elected President. A. W. McClean, J. A. Jones, R. A. Gilliam, and C. H. Goodykoontz were nominated, and the latter was elected on the second ballot. A. B. McClure, J. S. Meacham, and D. S. Lafar were nominated for Vice-President in the class of '31, and Lafar was elected on the third ballot. S. S. Wiley was elected Secretary-Treasurer of this class on the first vote over C. A. Sisson, M. W. Norfleet, and W. W. Fraley. W. B. Goodson, H. S. Covington, and C. H. Goodykoontz are the council members of the class. R. M. King, P. W. Glidewell, and Dean Rusk were also nominated.

The officers of the future sophomore class are D. S. King, President; R. F. Norton, Vice-President; and D. S. Martin, Secretary and Treasurer. King was elected on the second ballot over B. C. Allen, K. L. Goodson, C. M. Miller, and L. S. Baker. Norton was chosen on the first vote. The other nominees were R. W. Curtis, C. W. Arnold, and R. W. Lackmond. D. S. Martin was elected Secretary-Treasurer after F. S. Conway had been eliminated. E. Z. Dubose, C. W. Arnold, N. G. Spier, P. S. Hudgins, R. F. Norton, B. E. Allen, and F. S. Curtis were nominated as members of the student council. C. W. Arnold and E. Z. Dubose were elected.

INSTALLATION OF STUDENT COUNCIL HELD ON MONDAY

Kell Conducts Ceremony and Gives Talk to Student Body

NEW COUNCIL TAKES OATH

Pritchett, Newly-Elected President, Urges Students to Support Council and Share its Responsibility

The annual installation of the recently elected officers of the student body and of the new members of the student council was conducted in Shearer Hall during chapel exercises on April 8. Monday morning, R. E. Kell, former president of the student body, conducted the ceremony, which was opened by swearing in the new council members. Following this, Kell made a very effective and impressive talk to the student body, in which he emphasized the fact that each student should take it upon himself to be willing to cooperate with the council in its efforts to perform its tasks during the coming school year. He solicited the help of each member of the student body and expressed the appreciation of the retiring council for the help manifested by the students in the past. In closing the ceremony, Carl Pritchett, newly-elected president of the student body, made a forceful talk to the students, commending the work of the old council and reminding the new members of their responsibility in upholding the constitution of the student council. He urged the students to be slow to criticize the actions of the new council and to share in their responsibility with the new officers and their work.

From the rising sophomore class, E. Z. Dubose and C. W. Arnold were chosen. Those elected from the rising Junior class were C. H. Goodykoontz, H. S. Covington, W. W. Fraley, and W. B. Goodson. Senior members include the following: Carl Pritchett, W. B. McGuire, W. G. McGavock, R. T. Nunan, R. M. Christian, T. W. Brohard, and Z. V. Long.

Lenoir-Rhyne Nine Bows to Wildcats

Marrow Twirls Second Straight Win—Bears Make Many Miscues

Coach “Monk” Younger’s Wildcat baseball outfit played a fast brand of ball last Monday to a well-earned 11-4 victory over the Mountain Bear of Lenoir-Rhyne College. The tilt was featured by the hard and timely hitting of the Davidson team. The Wildcats collected hits at crucial times, and the Lenoir-Rhyne infield was touched too hard to handle. Davidson bunched their hits to run wild in the second and fourth innings. The plate was crossed four times in the second while five Davidson men tallied in the fourth. “Razz” Miller, Lenoir-Rhyne left fielder, was the big gun for the Bears, connecting with the ball for two home run blows and a single in four trips to the bat. “Buck” Marrow, Davidson mound artist, hurled faultless ball for the victors. He kept the hits well scattered and at no time during the game was he in dangerous territory. Five Lenoir-Rhyne men were retired by the strike-out route.

Davidson—
Ab R H O
Ratchford, cf 2 2 2 0
Marks, 3b 2 2 2 0
Goodson, 2b 3 1 1 3
Brock, ss 2 1 1 0
Armfield, c 2 1 1 0
Miller, lf 2 1 1 0
Bittle, rf 2 1 1 0
Marrow, p 2 1 1 0

Lenoir-Rhyne—
Ab R H O
Penelope, 3b 2 0 0 0
Kiser, 1b 2 0 0 0
Coulter, cf 2 0 0 0

Three Elected to Y Board of Control

As a result of the recent election of men to serve on the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control, A. L. DeCamp from the rising senior class and S. S. Wiley from the rising junior class were chosen as members of the new board. These men were elected to take the places of Melton, Kell, Gilmour, and Bailey who graduate this spring. T. R. Nunan and R. M. Christian, old members, and Camper O'Neal, Y secretary, complete the personnel of the Board. F. R. Brown as Y. M. C. A president is an honorary member. M. S. Jackson was re-elected to his post as a faculty director to serve this role, along with Doctor Arbuckle, Professor Williams, and Doctor Moffet. The latter, as college pastor, is a permanent member. The new board will begin to serve immediately, having held its first meeting last Monday night. This organization is in charge of all financial and other business matters of the Y. M. C. A. and is an integral part of its organization.

Scabbard and Blade to Initiate Nine Men

At the spring elections, the following men received bids from Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity: Seniors: G. W. Price, R. F. Sloop. Juniors: L. L. Boyd, W. B. McGuire, L. C. Roberts, W. H. Morrison, C. C. Orr, and F. W. Johnson. The probable date for the initiation is Friday, April 12. At 4:15 p.m., there will be an open initiation. Secret exercises will take place Friday night and will probably be followed by fireworks.

Scabbard and Blade has recently secured for a meeting place the hall next to “The Davidsonian” office on Oak Row. The hall is being suitably furnished and hereafter all meetings will be held there.

Converse Glee Club To Present Program Under Class Auspices

Thirty-Five Girls Coming From South Carolina

TICKETS ALREADY ON SALE

Concert to be Given in Shearer Hall at 7:15 o’Clock, Saturday, April 13

Saturday will be an exceptional day for Davidson and Davidson students, because on that day the Converse College Glee Club will pay its annual visit to the campus, arriving here from Spartanburg, S.C., about five o'clock in the afternoon. At seven-fifteen o'clock, the club will be heard in concert at Shearer Hall. Thirty-five beautiful girls compose the organization which is coming from a college noted throughout the South for its lovely and attractive girls. It is a custom for the Converse Club to visit Davidson at least once a year, and this occasion has come to be one of the most enjoyable of the entire school session. The concert Saturday night will be the first musical program offered at the college during the present term and will no doubt be accorded a triumphant reception.

The Junior Class has been carrying on negotiations with the Converse officials for some time with regard to bringing the Glee Club to Davidson, and it is with pleasure that the class presents the visitors on Saturday night. Admission will be fifty cents. The advance sale of tickets has been large, but some good seats may still be obtained. Tickets are on sale at White Drug Company tonight after supper. W. B. McGuire and W. G. McGavock have charge of the seating arrangements and sale of tickets.

Following is a list of girls coming with the Converse Club: Misses Burton, Boinst, Bruns, Clements, Cohn, Glenn, Carrington, Jones, Kirby, Little, Ward, Wills, Watson, Clark, Bayter, Askins, Budsaloo, Coble, Cummings, Lane, Kimbrough, Keller, Smith, Wardlaw, Cotterel, Hobbs, Hoyle, Mallary, Riley, Rudisall, Stuckey, Wingo, Gilland.