It matters not how a man dies, but how he lives. —SAMUEL JOHNSON.

THE DAVIDSONIAN — FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON BOOST BAND

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 31, 1929 No. 15

Second Summer School Will Continue On Same Plan As That Of First

Varied Offerings in Curricula are Announced for Session

BULLETIN ISSUED

Five Classes of Students Interested in Course

Davidson College’s Second Summer School, which begins the 10th of June and runs through the 19th of July, will offer a number of varied courses for those wishing to attend. The Summer School at Davidson is still in its infancy as the first summer session was held last year; but the quality is beyond reproof. All college credits are accepted by this college and the professional credits are accepted by the State Department of Public Instruction.

The College has gotten out a bulletin on the Summer School in which is stated the groups to which the Summer School should appeal. The groups are as follows:

1. High school graduates who intend to enter college next fall, and have entrance conditions to remove.
2. College students who are deficient in their work, and who wish to remove this deficiency.
3. College students who wish to advance their college standing by summer work.
4. Teachers who wish to raise the grade of license held.
5. Teachers who are not college graduates and who wish to continue work toward a degree.

Each day an assembly is held during the session which is vital to the Summer School. It consists of devotional exercises and instructive talks. The daily announcements made at the assembly are important because any changes announced at that time may affect the work throughout the school. The attendance at these assemblies is required.

The dormitories of the college are available for the use of the students of the summer session. Those attending may board at the hotel or at some private boarding house. The board will be from $5.00 to $6.00 a week, and the boarding houses are convenient for the students to both dormitories and classes.

The Davidson College Library, containing more than 30,000 selected volumes, is at the use of the students. The courses offered tentatively, with the understanding that additional courses will be given if there is sufficient demand for them, are:

Bible—Old Testament History or Old Testament Ideals—6 hours.
Education—Educational Measurements—3 hours.
Educational Administration and Supervision—3 hours.
Educational Sociology—3 hours.
Modern Movements in Elementary Education—3 hours.
Primary Methods—3 hours.
Grammar Grade Methods—3 hours.
English—Advanced Composition—3 hours.
The Elizabethan Drama—3 hours.
Government or Civics—Government of the United States—3 hours.
Government of Europe—3 hours.
Mathematics—College Algebra—3 hours.
Trigonometry—3 hours.

(Continued on page 3)

DR. HOOD TO TALK AT STATE COLLEGE

To Lecture Before Phi Kappa Phi Scholastic Fraternity

Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of psychology at Davidson College, has accepted an invitation to speak before the Phi Kappa Phi society, national honorary scholastic fraternity, at N. C. State College, Raleigh, on February 15th. He has announced that he will discuss, “The Human Factor in the Machine Age.”

Dr. Hood is one of several speakers who will appear before this fraternity in a series of four lectures. Among others are Dr. William L. Poteat, of Wake Forest; Dr. Frank Graham, of the University of North Carolina, and Dr. Russell, of Swarthmore College.

The Davidson professor is one of the leading educators in the field of psychology, and has written several books on this subject. At present he is preparing other books for publication, an announcement of which will be made shortly.

No Action Taken

For the benefit of those who are curious about the question, it has been ascertained that no action has as yet been taken as to what will be done about the four days of school which were missed on account of the influenza epidemic. The matter will probably be taken up at the next faculty executive meeting.

Y. M. C. A. SPONSORS TOURNAMENT SOON

Loving Cup to be Awarded Champion

The very latest in sport contests has finally come to life upon the Davidson campus. Many other colleges and universities have taken up this form of sport. Champions have been crowned in them all. In order not to be outdistanced, Davidson has taken up this pastime. The Y.M.C.A. is back of this ancient game. In fact, a solid silver loving cup has been offered to the winner of this contest.

What is the idea? A Ping-pong contest or as the addicts say, tournament. For the past months, any man walking by the ‘Y’ could hear the merry ping or the pong of the balls as they went merrily chasing back and forth across the little green net. From the first two men that rather doubtfully knocked the ball across the table, the enthusiasm for the game has grown, and now the waiting line to play resembles the gate-crashers line at a script dance.

Watching and nursing the liking for the game, the “Y” officials took the bull by the tail and showed the reason for the first tournament proposed. A tournament is in the offing. In fact, if one should happen to wander into the “Y” the first thing that would greet his eye would be the big board, upon which is room to sign up for the big tournament. (Pardon the frequent reference to tournament but the writer of this feature doesn’t know what else to use.)

The donors of the solid silver loving cup is the firm of Garibaldi and Bruns, jewelers, located in Charlotte, N. C. The cup at present is on display in the window of the White Drug Store. It is a very fine cup,—one that any ping-pong player would be proud to own. In the whole, one can imagine an old grad of the class of 1929, telling his grand-children how back in 1929, he won the cup, symbolic of his being the best ping-pong player in college. Upon saying this he will have to explain to the sophisticated grand-children just what the game of ping-pong was.

The main idea of this column is to announce that the Davidson college Y.M.C.A. is sponsoring a ping-pong tournament. The winner of this tournament will be presented a silver loving cup. Same cup is presented by Garibaldi and Bruns, jewelers in Charlotte.

In spite of the tournament and on ac-

(Continued on page 3)

JUNIORS SET DATE FOR ORATORICALS

At a meeting of the Junior class Tuesday morning it was announced that Junior Speaking would be held on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, March 14, 15, and 16. No plans were definitely announced as to the program of entertainment that will be effected. It was mentioned, however, that a possible plan would be to have the oratorical contest Thursday night; a play by the Red and Black Masquers Friday night followed by entertainment at Charlotte; a free movie Saturday afternoon with entertainment at Mooresville Saturday night.

Edgerton Returns

Darden Edgerton, who underwent a serious operation for appendicitis, was able to return to the campus in time to take the majority of his examinations. Edgerton was operated on Jan 6.

DR. CULLUM TALKS ON GEOGRAPHY OF BIBLE COUNTRIES

Committee on Lectures Obtains Speaker in Field of Bible

WAKE FOREST MAN

Talk Made in Chapel Followed by Lecture in Evening

Dr. W. R. Cullum, of the department of Bible at Wake Forest College, spoke before the students at Chapel Monday morning and again in the evening to students and townspeople, using as his subjects for these talks: “Reality in Advance” and “A Modern Pilgrim in Palestine.”

Dr. Cullum was introduced to the students by Dr. E. F. Shewmake. The subject of the morning talk, “Reality in Advance,” was the necessity for using religion and making it a vital part of our modern life. The speaker compared our time with the time of Jeremiah during which there was the fall of the old and the rise of the new way of life. In the modern world there is this same sort of transition which in our case is being brought about by four great contemporary revolutions. These revolutions are:

1. An enlarged conception of the physical universe through science and research.
2. Marvelous changes wrought by scientific discoveries; electricity, radio, etc.
3. Social readjustments.
4. A reappraisement of our fundamental institutions, such as the school, the church, the home.

Such changes in life, Dr. Cullum said, are vital, and if there is any reality in religion now is the time to use it.

At his evening illustrated address in Shearer Hall, Dr. Cullum was introduced by Dr. K. J. Foreman. Dr. Cullum’s talk consisted mainly of explanation and discussions of the lantern slides which were projected on a screen. He said that if two things were learned about the Bible, no commentary on it would be needed; these were geographical and historical backgrounds.

By Dr. Cullum’s pictures and talks the hearer was taken as “A Modern Pilgrim In Palestine” on a trip throughout the Holy Land, beginning at Joppa, going from there to Jerusalem, thence to the Dead Sea, back to Jerusalem, then to Hebron, and last to the north of Palestine. Dr. Cullum showed and explained many scenes. The first slide was a map of Palestine showing how it is shut in and yet the “highway of the nations.” The scenes shown were taken by Dr. Cullum on his tour of the Holy Land which he made in company with a party in 1914. The method of landing at Joppa and views of the road from Joppa to Jerusalem were shown. Pictures of the temple site, the Mount of Olives, the Garden of Gethsemane, and many other places.

(Continued on page 3)

Tickets Valid For Redemption or Use

It has been officially announced that the tickets sold for “The Rainbow Review” which was to have been presented by the Junior Class before Christmas but was interrupted by an early recess, may be redeemed at par value by W. B. McGuire, Jr., No. 1 West Dormitory. These tickets, however, may be retained and used at an entertainment planned by the Junior Class to be staged in the middle of March at which time the old tickets will be valid.

New Essay Contest Recently Launched

New Ideas About American College Wanted

“The New Republic,” a periodical published in New York City, has recently announced a contest in essay writing in which it is hoped that some new ideas may be gained as to what the present day college student thinks about college. This contest is open to all those who have graduated between the years of 1925 and 1930. The contest is to encourage thinking and writing standards of academic life. Two prizes are offered: a first prize of $100 for the best, and a second prize of $75 for the second best essay submitted. Among the points which the essays might consider are:are: Location of the college: city or country? Size: the best number of students. Selection of students. Curriculum: proportion of electives, degree of specialization. Method of instruction: quizzes, lectures, seminars. Examinations; grades. Intellectual life of individuals and groups. Living quarters, fraternities. Co-education. Athletics and other organized activities. Advantages of the writer’s own college, and how these could be developed. These articles will be considered under the following conditions: 

1. Members of the college classes from 1930—the present juniors back to 1926 may submit essays.
2. Each essay must be not more than 2,000 words long.
3. It must be received in the office of The New Republic on or before April 1, 1929.
4. The name, class, college, home address, and, in the case of alumni, the present occupation of the author must appear on every manuscript.
5. Articles will be judged by the following committee: Alexander Meiklejohn of the University (Continued on page 3)

Renewed $15 GIVEN

$15 First and Second Prizes Given for Best Features and Editorials

Along with numerous other things with which the necessary early recess Christmas interfered, was a contest staged by Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity. It was decided by the committee appointed by the fraternity that the contest would be renewed with the same conditions except a change in date. A total of $15.00 dollars will be awarded to the best journalistic efforts handed to the editor by any student except those on the staff of The Davidsonian. This amount is to be divided into four prizes making possible substantial prizes in two fields of writing: editorial and feature. $5.00 is offered for the best editorial, $2.50 for the second best. The best feature story (story of special or human interest) will receive $5.00 and likewise the second best will get $2.50. Following is a draft of the rules drawn up and submitted by the committee consisting of W. K. Pritchett, Chairman; R. F. Jarratt and F. D. Miller.

1. All articles must be handed to Aubrey Brown, editor, in 20 Rumple before midnight, Thursday, February 14. The papers will be judged and the winners announced in the following issue of the Davidsonian.
2. Any student not on the editorial staff of The Davidsonian is eligible to submit stories and editorials. Members of The Reporters’ Club are eligible.
3. Editorials should not be over 400 words long. Features should not be more than 600 words in length. (Continued on page 3)

Appearance Of Freshman Numerals Brings Drastic Action Upon Whole Class

Prof. Beaty Makes Talk at Y Vespers

“What really matters?” asked Professor E. A. Beaty, professor of English at Davidson, in addressing the members of the Y. M. C. A. in Shearer Hall Sunday evening. Referring to the present age as one of transition, the speaker took the heart of his message from II John 1:8: Look to yourselves, that you do not waste what someone else has worked for. Young men of the present day have gained a precious heritage from the past through the suffering of those who have gone before. All of the physical prosperity which America is today enjoying is a gift; and her freedom is likewise given to her youth. What are the latter going to do with these gifts? The boy who goes into altruistic work will be scorned and called a fool by the world, but he who goes in search of wealth and “feeds his soul on dollar bills” will be adjudged wise. Yet life is not entirely physical, mental or spiritual and the man who neglects any one of these will have a stunted personality. Our standards of success must place a value on spiritual as well as physical achievements. If possession of freedom merely constitutes the liberty to engage in questionable and degrading amusements, and if those who have broken the laws of the land are allowed to go free, then our liberty is an illusion. Liberty is not license; a man is free to do what he pleases only as long as he pleases to do what is right. Finally, freedom of America is expressed in her educational institutions. Yet the colleges of many states are leading away from freedom and truth, as evidenced by the boast of the Association for the Advancement of Atheism that they have flourishing chapters among college professors and students. Yet education for its own sake is vain, since it ignores the truth, that “The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom,” and forgets Jesus. Characterizing the human soul as the most inaccessible thing in the world, the speaker declared that, like the body, it would waste away through lack of exercise. Spiritual suffering, service and sacrifice are ways of attaining and comprehending the realities of Jesus Christ, the man of sorrows and suffering. Without suffering, no great contribution has ever been made to the world, but through its agency come joy, power, experience, self-mastery, and a sense of God's reality. To be sure we are keeping our eyes on what really matters, we must remember the God and lives for the advancement of His Kingdom, with our own lives in body, soul, and work dedicated to His service.

Committee Plans For Senior Party

Washington’s Birthday is Central Theme of Party

A committee has been appointed by the Senior class for the house party, to be given by the faculty, and is now working up some novel plans for entertainment. This party is to be given on February 23 and the activities, according to reports, will be centered around the idea of Washington's birthday. It will be the first time anything like this has been tried by the senior class and, as practically every member of the class expects to have a girl up, the event will doubtless be a success.

MUSICAL PROGRAM WILL BE RENDERED

On the eleventh of February, Edwin M. Steckel will appear at Davidson. Professor Steckel is the director of music in the Gastonia Public Schools and has chosen music as his profession. According to Professor Cullem, of the Davidson faculty, Mr. Steckel has a personality which is especially appealing to young people and makes good music popular by practical and pleasant presentations of the Masters of Music. Mr. Steckel uses as his medium a Steinway piano with a Duo-Art attachment. The Duo-Art is a reproducing mechanism which brings to the concert hall renditions of musical masterpieces accurately as played by such noted artists as Paderewski, Hoffman, Bauer, and Grainger. Paderewski has been quoted as saying that the Duo-Art brings to the listener a super artistry in that one hears the (Continued on page 5)

Freshmen Placed Upon Strict Campus for Period of Two Days

EXAM PERIOD ENLIVENED

Breaking Out of Fresh Class Spirit Causes Restrictions

Evidently of the opinion that it pays to advertise, the Freshmen burst forth during exam week with a series of demonstrations for the Class of '32. Large numerals painted on many of the buildings, signs in chapel, a flag bearing the numbers 1932 together with public demonstrations by members of the class necessitated severe action by the Court of Control. Some time during the latter part of exams, the students were greeted en route to breakfast with large numerals, 1932, painted in white on the four columns of Eu Hall. Other numerals on West, in front of New Chambers and on a blackboard above the Junior section in chapel bore testimony of the work of members of the Freshman class. The same morning a flag, made from an old sheet and bearing the markings of the class, waved from the flagpole beneath the regular flag. Immediate action was taken by the Court of Control which resulted in the ruling that all Freshmen must not walk across the campus. This action was taken Friday morning. The class was given until noon of that day to have the class flag lowered from the pole. After chapel Thursday a group of Freshmen gathered around the flagpole to lower their flag. Before disbanding, they gave a yell for '32. The next morning another flag appeared, other numerals were painted in conspicuous places on the campus and a general restlessness prevailed among all the “red-tops.” The Court, at another meeting, demanded that the flag of '32 be removed by dinner. No action was taken by the class on the matter, and officers of the army department finally removed the flag. This act of insubordination on the part of the class resulted in the whole class being placed on campus over the week-end, from Saturday morning until Tuesday morning. No freshman was allowed off the campus proper except at meal times. Saturday night, while large numbers of the upper-classmen were off the campus, the Fresh pulled another demonstration. Gathering a large percentage of the class, they paraded through the main street, headed toward the picture show. The snake-dance was timed to the tune 1-9-3-2. The demonstration came to a sudden end at the steps of the picture show when R. E. Kell, President of the student body, and C. R. Lake, Judge of the Court of Control, disbanded the group. Further action in regard to those participating in the demonstration Saturday will be taken by the Court in the near future.

Prelim Inspection Seems Well Pleased With Condition of Local Unit

On Thursday morning, January 24, Major W. E. Duvall of the 4th corps area headquarters arrived in Davidson to make an inspection of the R. O. T. C. students and the armory and to consult with President W. J. Martin. The major came here about nine o'clock in the morning and left at three o'clock in the afternoon. As the students were engaged with examinations, he was not able to make an inspection of them. No official report was made as to whether or not the local R. O. T. C. unit would be recommended by the national inspector, but Major Duvall seemed to be well pleased with the condition of things.