April 11, 1929 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Beta Theta Pi
The following were week-end guests of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity: Misses Brantley Nichols, Frances Leak, N. C. C. W.;
Helen Johnson, Mutt Burns, Carolyn Winston, and Pat Riley, Converse; Lib Patterson, Kat Tucker, Charlotte. Among the visitors were Doc
Knight, Durham; Ed Douglas, Augusta; Mutt Nisbet, Charlotte; Jim Irvin, Reidsville.

Pyramid Club
The following were guests of the Pyramid Club the past week-end: Misses Jane Gillian, Ruth Lane Stikeleather, Ann Stevens, Converse;
Sally Couch, Elizabeth Lowe, Emily Fraser, Charlotte; Elizabeth McLean, Lincolnton. The following visitors were present: Harold Burke, Taylorsville; Jim Kuykendall,
Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha and Kappa Sigma
The Kappa Alpha and Kappa Sigma Fraternities had as week-end guests the following: Misses Dot Bowers, Gastonia; Eve Gables, Converse;
Kathaleena Carter, Spartanburg; Pat Miller, Elsie Fluhardy, Elizabeth Darling, Evelyn Brentwood, Knoxville; Elizabeth McGhee, Mary Frances Hopkins, N. C. C.
W.; Ruth McClaren, Charlotte; Elizabeth Rhea Dewey, Virginia Harris, Salem College; Merriam Wellman, N. C. C. W. The following were
visitors: Frank McCrary, Asheboro; Wit Hancock, Raleigh; Rabbit Hall, Wofford; Smith Reynolds, Winston-Salem; Bill Tate, Charlotte; Joe McConnell, U. of
Va.; Bill Worley, High Point.

Pi Kappa Alpha
The following were week-end guests of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity: Misses Polly Aiken, Richmond; Mary Lee Lindsey, Ava Lee
Evans, N. C. C. W.; Louise Lassiter, Salem; Helen Brawley, Statesville; Scotty Johnston, Charlotte. The following men visited the chapter:
Jones Pollard, William Kirkland, Durham; Richard Royal, Duke; John Akers, Charlotte.

Phi Delta Theta
The following were week-end guests of the Phi Delta Theta Fraternity: Misses Ruth Ashmore, Winthrop; Rachel Minshall, Frances Shute, Converse;
Dot Nutting, Dot Montgomery, Lil Kendall, Ida Allison, Dolly Jean Marion, Eleanor Kincaid, Douglas Rankin, Babe Henderson, Charlotte; Lil Hendon,
Evelyn Jackson, Asheville; Eleanor Willingham, Nancy Tyree, Wilder, Winston-Salem. Among those visiting were: Fred Johnson, Ed Marshal, Bill Evans, Charles
Gignilliat, Fred Cox, Bill Wright, Alex Bailey, University of N. C.; Joe Cottrell, Duke.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
The following were guests of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity the past week-end: Misses Ann Osteen, Margaret Blue, Elizabeth Blue,
Levinia Lee, Converse; Tippy Galloway, Winston-Salem; Virginia Reid, Concord; Louise Fuller, Katherine Stokes, Dot Montgomery, Isabelle Wade, Charlotte; Elizabeth Simpson,
Greensboro; Mary James, Hamlet.

SPRINGFIELD LICKS DAVIDSON 10 TO 0
The Springfield College nine pounded the offerings of three Wildcat hurlers here on March 28, and succeeded in shutting out
Davidson by a score of 10 to 0. The visitors poled out sixteen hits, bunching most of them when hits
meant lots of runs. Johnston pitched good baseball for the visitors, keeping the seven hits he allowed the ’Cats well-scattered.
He was given airtight support by his teammates, three double plays keeping him on safe ground when it looked as
though he might get in a hole.

Marrow started the game for Davidson. He fanned four of the first six batters to face him. However, the Northern
lads touched his offerings for three runs in the fourth inning, after getting one in the third, and he went
out in favor of McInnis. McInnis allowed three runs in the seventh, and Meadows was called in to finish the
game. Bigsbee, of Springfield, had a perfect day at the plate, getting five hits in five trips to the plate.
Proctor got two hits in three times up.

Box score and summaries:
Springfield Ab R H O A E
Williamson, lf 4 1 1 0 0 0
Bigsbee, 3b 5 2 5 2 3 0
Woods, 1b 4 0 1 6 0 0
Duncan, cf 5 1 1 2 0 0
White, rf 4 1 2 0 0 0
Becker, 2b 4 1 1 2 5 0
Gustafson, ss 5 1 1 0 2 0
Oliver, c 4 2 1 10 0 0
Johnston, p 2 1 0 1 0 0
Gillett, p 1 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 37 10 16 27 15 2

Davidson Ab R H O A E
Miller, ss 4 0 0 0 0 0
Armfield, 2b 3 0 1 2 0 0
Goodson, 2b 0 0 0 0 0 0
Proctor, rf 3 0 2 1 0 0
Crawford, 1b 4 0 0 5 2 0
Gladstone, c 2 0 1 2 1 0
Marks, 3b 3 0 1 2 1 0
Littlejohn, ss 3 0 1 1 0 1
Marrow, p 1 0 0 0 4 1
McInnis, p 0 0 0 0 1 0
Meadows, p 0 0 0 0 1 0
Totals 32 0 7 27 10 4

Score by innings:
Springfield 001 310 311—10
Davidson 000 000 000— 0

Summary—Two base hit: Proctor. Three base hit: Williamson. Sacrifices: Bigsbee, Woods, Johnston (3). Stolen base: White. Double plays: Gustafson to
Becker to Woods; Duncan to Gustafson; Becker to Gustafson to Woods. Base on balls: Off Johnston, 1; off McInnis, 1;
off Meadows, 2. Struck out: by Johnston, 2; by Marrow, 5; by McInnis, 3; by Meadows, 1. Hits: Off Marrow,
8, with 4 runs in 3 innings; off Meadows, 3 with 2 runs in 2 innings. Hit by pitched ball:
By McInnis (Becker). Passed balls: Armfield, 2; left on bases: Springfield, 6; Davidson, 7. Losing pitcher: Marrow. Umpire: Brandon. Time
of game, 2:05.

V. P. I. Track Team Outpoints Wildcats
Saturday, March 30, Captain Penn, of the V. P. I. Track Team, led his teammates to a 72 and two-thirds
to 53 and one-third victory over Davidson. Running on a track softened by all-night rains, the Gobbler leader copped the
mile run in fast time and later on came out first in the two-mile event, and second in the eight
hundred and fifty yard run. Penn had a great afternoon, but it was a Davidson man who was the high
scorer of the meet. Heath Whittle was in great form to win three events netting fifteen points. Davidson put up
a good fight against the Techmen, but clean sweeps in the two mile and half-mile and two places in the
mile, put V. P. I. safely out in front. A summary of the event is as follows:

100-yard dash—Won by Whittle, Davidson; Shanklin, Tech, second; Currie, Davidson, third. Time 10:2.
Mile run—Won by Captain Penn, Tech; Breeden, Tech, second; Ely, Davidson, third. Time 4:38.
220-yard dash—Won by Shanklin, Tech; Currie, Davidson, second; Emory, Tech, third. Time 22:8.
Discus—Won by Regen, Davidson; Zirkle, Tech, second; Looney, Tech, third. Distance 118 ft. 2 1-2 in.
120 high hurdles—Won by Whittle, Davidson; George, Davidson, second; Ramey, Tech, third. Time 16 flat.
High jump—Won by Preble, Tech; Gardner and Dumas, Davidson and Wade tied for second and third. Ht. 5 ft. 7
in.
440-yard dash—Won by Flynn, Tech; Tybrook, Tech, second; Brohard, Davidson, third. Time 53:11.
Pole vault—Won by Bailey, Davidson; Weaver, Tech, second; Smith and Brock, Davidson, and Damewood, Tech, tied for third. Ht. 11
ft. 6 in.

"DRUGS" "Prescriptions"
WHITE DRUG COMPANY SERVES THE CAMPUS
"SODA" "Drug Sundries"

Charlotte Hunter Named May Queen
Miss Charlotte Hunter, of Davidson, has been signally honored at Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Georgia. She was recently elected May
Queen by her fellow students at the annual May Day Festival, held in May in the natural amphitheater on the
campus. Miss Hunter was selected from a list of four seniors nominated for the office. During her four years at
Agnes Scott, Miss Hunter has taken part in every phase of campus activity, and has been the recipient of varied
honors. She is President of the college athletic association and “Hosac,” the Honorary Society of the institution. She has participated
in many Agnes Scott athletic games and contests and is among the best students in her class. The pageant in
which Miss Hunter will act asQueen of May will be based on the story of Helen and Paris, opening with
the scene of the judgment of Paris. Special music has been prepared for the performance which will be enacted in
pantomime. More than 100 students participate.

CARR SPEAKS TO VOLUNTEER BAND

At the meeting Sunday, H. A. Carr made a most interesting talk on the founding of the Volunteer movement. The
next meeting will be with the Ministerial Band. The speaker for this joint meeting will be Dr. Donald W. Richardson
of Union Theological Seminary. On Saturday, April 13, the Executive Committee of the State Union will hold a session at
High Point. The speakers for this event are Professor Foreman, G. A. Fry, and J. F. Preston, all of Davidson.

Tech, Gen, Two-mile tied for third. Height 10 ft. Won by Penn, Tech; Palmer, second; Tech, third. Time 10:28.8. 220
low hurdles Tech, Carper, Won by Whittle, Davidson; George, Davidson, second; Ramey, Tech, third. Time 25.4. Shot put—Won by Leftwich,
Davidson; Zirkle, Tech, second; Davis, Tech, third. Distance 40 ft. 4 in. Broad jump—Won by McCall, Davidson; Martin, second; Eddy,
Tech, third. Distance 20 ft. 10 1/2 in. 880-yard run—Won by Lybrook, Tech; Penn, Tech, second; Flynn, Tech, third. Time
2:04. Javelin—Won by Carper, Tech; McCall, Davidson, second; Myers, Tech, third. Distance, 135 ft. 5 in.

Glee Club in Concert

The Davidson Glee Club and Sunnyland Serenaders will give a concert in Shearer Hall on the evening of April 19.
There will be a minstrel skit between the two parts of the program, and an entertainment abounding in melody and
merriment is promised. Admission will be charged at thirty-five cents to students and fifty cents to townspeople, since the primary
object of the affair is to aid in raising funds for the new band uniforms.

You will find the finest leathers and most correct lines in John Ward shoes. A wide variety of lasts, specially
selected and designed for college men’s wear. John Ward MEN'S SHOES On Display By BILL BAILEY AND DEAN RUSK 208
Watts

Dr. Arbuckle Speaks To Ministerial Band

The Ministerial Band held a very interesting meeting Sunday, April 7. There being no business of great importance, the meeting
was soon turned over to Doctor Arbuckle, of the Davidson faculty, who was the speaker of the afternoon. Doctor Arbuckle
took the subject for his talk from the fifteenth chapter of John, stressing in particular the phrase in the eighth
verse, “Bearing much fruit.” In his own original and interesting way, Doctor Arbuckle told of two apple trees that he
had, one a Northern Spire, which bore a half dozen good apples, and the other a splendid King David, which
bore a great number of fine apples. Discussing the possibilities of bearing much fruit, Doctor Arbuckle said that the Northern
Spire would have borne a great crop had it had a good husbandman. We have great possibilities for bearing much
fruit in the Kingdom of God for we have a good husbandman, Jesus Christ, who has shown us the way
in His Word. Many other illustrations followed before the address was finished and the members of the band expressed themselves
after the meeting, saying that Doctor Arbuckle's talk was one of the most helpful of the entire year. Dr. Donald
Richardson of Union Seminary will be the speaker for the meeting next Sunday. He is one of the most eloquent
men in the Southern Presbyterian Church and a large attendance is expected.

R. O. T. C. Post To Be Inspected Soon

Officials to be in Davidson April 25 and 26

In the afternoon drill of Wednesday, April 3, the third platoon of Company C took first place. Second place was
taken by the third platoon of Company B, while the third platoon of Company A copped third place. Inspection will
take place Thursday and Friday, April 25 and 26. Major Caffery and a fellow officer will arrive Thursday afternoon, April
25. Friday morning, they will inspect one section of each of the four classes. During the fourth and fifth periods,
the battalion field inspection will occur. The two officers together with the Davidson staff will then partake of lunch as
guests of the Scabbard and Blade fraternity. Friday afternoon, the armory records and property will be inspected. Upon the completion
of the inspection of the military unit, the officers will visit Davidson officials. The two inspecting officers expect to leave
for N. C. State Saturday morning.

Dean of Women (6:30 A. M.): “Young man, what do you mean by bringing this girl in at this hour
of the morning?”
Student: “I got a lecture at nine o'clock.”

DAVIDSON DOWNS CORNELIUS SQUAD

On April 6, the Wildkittens opened their baseball season by winning over the strong Cornelius High School nine by the
score of 8-0. The Davidson boys played a steady and consistent game despite the handicap of a rough playing field.
As a whole, the Fresh baseball team showed up exceptionally well. Bernhardt and Johnson starred in the field, while Lane
contributed the batting features of the day with a triple and home run out of as many times at bat.
Curtis hurled a good game, allowing the opponents only four hits while his teammates garnered nine off of Sherrill.

Sipping a flask of rye
He gazed at a post and said with a toast—
“We're lit—the lamp-post and I”

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE S&W Cafeterias are catering to you ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

Conquering the Cascades

Snow falls every month in the year where the Great Northern crosses the Cascades. Steep, tortuous grades increase the difficulty
of the railroading problem. Nature has stubbornly resisted man’s effort to conquer the range. In January, 1929, the tunnel was
opened. Man, with electricity as an ally, had conquered the Cascades. The eight-mile bore was driven in three years—a record
impossible without electric power. And electrification has been extended to the entire 75-mile route through the mountains. The conquests of
electricity on the land and on the sea, in the air, and underground, are making practicable the impossibilities of yesterday.
As our vision encompasses wider horizons, electricity appears as a vital contribution to future industrial progress and human welfare.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
