FOR A BETTER BASKETBALL QUINT

CAT TRAX
As They Follow the Red and Black
By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

The new term of sports starts off with an unknown future, but with fond hope. All Wildcats are itching for a large dose of revenge to be handed out to every opposing team. The football season brought very little consolation. There were spots of brilliant play by the Cats, but there seemed to be considerably more lumination from other sources, and as a result, the old Wildcat had his head rubbed pretty deeply in the sod.

There is going to be plenty going on here this spring, more than ever before, and the various squads will furnish diversified entertainment for a bunch of eager onlookers. First thing we know Monk will be sounding the call for spring grid workouts. Then the sweat will really begin to pour, and before it is over there will be plenty of weary bones and skinned legs. This coming practice season will excite more interest than heretofore, because the question of next year’s prospects is already abroad. No doubt about the good material in the frosh class. The problem is—can the new men be whipped into a winning combination? The backfield should be well fortified, but that line is needing all the support it can get.

When Captain Pritchett trots onto the court Wednesday night with his 1929 edition of the Wildcat Basketball Five, the season will get under way in earnest. Furman’s Purple Hurricane is no mean opponent; in fact, for the last two years, the Baptists have taken Monk’s boys into tow without serious difficulty. We don’t know what the Greenville lads are bringing to town this time, but we venture to say that they have a rough, tough crew of basketeers, and it will take all of Younger’s tricks to whip them. Furman always plays a hard game, but to make the situation more serious, the local team has engaged in no pre-season contest. If they come through this first encounter in good style, then they will be set to give plenty of trouble later on. We expect the team to grow better with every game. Pritchett and Calhoun are the two letter men on the squad. The rest are green, though Goodson and Rusk went well on the frosh quint last year, and Frontis Johnston and Pat Crawford saw some varsity service.

The old saying about hitching your wagon to a star may pull this year’s team through to a successful season, for the schedule is one of the most difficult yet tackled by a Davidson team. Carolina comes back on the Wildcat list after an absence of several years. The Tar Heels don’t seem to be as good as usual, and the Cats will give them a stiff battle, with a mighty keen chance of winning. Can’t tell what might happen when the Cats get to prowling around.

That scrap in Charlotte Saturday night will likely draw about every Davidson man who can bum, walk, or crawl down there. Something about a Davidson-Carolina game that gets you, isn’t there?

Up here at Davidson, we feel just about as proud of Georgia Tech as do the citizens of Atlanta. That WAS a game! Sounded like one of the old Frank Merriwell tales where the hero grabs the oval in the last second of play, dodges some thirty tacklers, and falls across the goal line into the arms of his sweet little girl. California nabbed most of the statistics except that little matter of the score, and what a whale of a difference a few points make. Just like Camels! Tech had the best team, though. With due respect to the magnificent stand of the Golden Bears, Tech’s all-around power was the measure of supremacy. Hats off to our National Champions from Way Down South.

The student body has its challenge to help put the much-longed-for winning football combination on the field next fall. This idea of the band uniforms, if carried to completion, will assure Davidson of a college band second to none and excelled by few, as they say at the circus. We've seen the models of the new outfit and it is a mighty snappy array, carrying out.

Wildcat Basketters Meet Carolina Five As Second Opponent
Younger Takes Men to Charlotte Saturday for Important Clash With Tar Heels

CATS TRAIN HARD

With Furman Game Behind, Davidson Hoopsters Look to State Games—Big Squad Working Out

Davidson's Wildcat basketeers will play their second game of the season at the Charlotte auditorium Saturday night. Their opponent in the tilt will be the Carolina quintet. Coach Monk Younger will work today and tomorrow correcting the mistakes which came to the front in the Furman game last night. The Carolina five, state champions last year, have already played a number of games this season. They took a trip through the Midwest during the Christmas holidays, playing Ohio State, Butler, Louisville, and the University of Kentucky. They lost their first three games but won from Kentucky. Although Carolina has played a number of games already, the tilt Saturday will open the state schedule for both teams. Carolina has lost many of the stars from her last year’s championship team but still has plenty of power. The game should prove an interesting affair for all concerned.

Coach Monk has been pushing his boys and their play has been improving steadily. The game last night was their first test under fire this season, except a few practice scrimmages with Coach Tilson’s freshman squad. There are eighteen men on the squad at present, two of which are letter men. Most of the others were either on the squad last year or came up from the freshman team. Captain Pritchett and Calhoun, both letter men, are showing good form at the forward positions. Shepherd also is playing good basketball. The forward positions should cause Coach Monk very little trouble. At center, there are Wilson, Rusk, and Johnson. Rusk and Johnson were both stars on the interclass basketball teams and Johnson was a squadman from last year. Rusk was on the freshman squad last year. Wilson has been showing up well in practice. At the guard positions, Goodson, Crawford, Moore, Proctor, and Baker have all been doing excellent work. Crawford was on the squad last year and was on the Senior Interclass basketball team. Goodson, Baker, and Moore also were on interclass teams. These men should be able to hold the guarding assignments well enough to satisfy anyone. Coach Monk has some good material to work with, and if anything can be judged from last night’s game, he is handling it in his usual capable manner. The boys had the old Wildcat fight and played the game in good style.

Seasick wife (as the offspring is raising cain): John, will you please speak to your son?
Seasick father: Hello son.The college colors of Red and Black. You'll feel like bearing down on “OLD DAVIDSON” when you see that band parading in all its glory. Two shows is the price—two shows per man. Are you willing? This is one movement that has been a long time coming to the school, but it is here in earnest now, and it will be a shame if the response is not wholehearted. The plan is to get things cleared up before examination time. Back the campaign up to the best of your ability, and then rest assured of a job well done. The athletic spirit aroused here in coming years depends largely on student support, and here is your chance to shine in a real way.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Difficult Schedule For Fresh Quintet
Trip Through Virginia is Feature of Fresh Card

The Davidson Wildkittens will have a tough schedule this year. They had a good one booked for last season, but a glance at the one listed below will prove that it is a very difficult schedule. There will be five encounters at Davidson, and six on the road. The trip up through Virginia will be the main event of the season and will take in most of the schools in the Old Dominion State. The card as announced by Freshman Manager, John B. Moriarity, follows:

Jan. 14—Wingate College at Davidson.
Jan. 29—Belmont Abbey at Davidson.
Feb. 2—V. P. I. Fresh at Davidson.
Feb. 5—Wingate College at Wingate.
Feb. 8—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
Feb. 11—Oak Ridge at Oak Ridge.
Feb. 12—V. P. I. Fresh at Blacksburg, Va.
Feb. 13—Washington and Lee Fresh at Lexington, Va.
Feb. 14—V. M. I. Fresh at Lexington, Va.
Feb. 15—University of Virginia Fresh at Charlottesville.
Feb. 21—Erskine Fresh at Davidson.

Camden, N.J.—(AP)—A voice was carried two miles here recently when the Victor Talking Machine company transmitted sounds from the super-directional horn at the Victor Plant here, which were heard by officers aboard the Los Angeles dirigible two miles distant. The so-called “soundbeam” device, including a horn 20 feet long and ten feet wide, with a multiplicity of reproducing units, and operated by high-power vacuum tubes, is expected by S. T. Williams, its inventor, to be especially valuable in ground-to-airship communication during landings in heavy fogs.

The trouble is that nuisances are created faster than we can pass laws against them. They've gone and made a voice carry two miles.—AP.

A man may be driven to drink, but to get him away from it he has to be pulled.

Complete Football Schedule for 1929 Ready for Release
Signing of Elon Contract for Opening Game Fills Wildcat Card

CAROLINA MET HERE
Most Comprehensive Schedule in Years With Game at West Point As High Spot

That Davidson’s football program for this year is practically complete is announced by Captain N. G. Pritchett, graduate manager of athletics. The season will open with a game against Elon College at Richardson Field and after a schedule of stiff encounters will close with the game against Duke University also at Richardson Field. The schedule is very similar to that of last year with the addition of the game against the United States Military Academy at West Point in place of the Guilford clash of last fall. In several instances, the place at which the games are to be held has not yet been decided. The managers have considered several cities which are anxious to procure games but have not received many very acceptable offers. Whether the N. C. State game will be in Raleigh or again in Greensboro has been left for the State officials to decide in consultation with the officials of the World War Memorial Stadium in Greensboro. The game against the University of North Carolina will again be played on Richardson Field at the request of the University authorities. Though the Homecoming game has not yet been officially chosen, in all probability, as last season, the Carolina classic will be played on home soil at a very convenient time. The schedule as announced follows:

Sept. 21—Elon at Davidson.
Sept. 28—Clemson (place undecided).
Oct. 5—Wofford at Spartanburg, S. C.
Oct. 12—Army at West Point, N. Y.
Oct. 19—The Citadel at Davidson.
Oct. 26—Wake Forest (place undecided).
Nov. 2—V. M. I. (place undecided).
Nov. 9—N. C. State (place undecided).
Nov. 16—University of North Carolina at Davidson.
Nov. 28—Duke University at Davidson.

Two Town Citizens Die in Past Week

Miss Mamie Withers, a member of the well-known family of Davidson, passed away after an operation in a sanitarium in Statesville. She had been in failing health for many years. Miss Withers was a teacher in the Davidson school for almost twenty years. She had hundreds of acquaintances and scores of friends, especially among former Davidson students who knew her while here in college. Her funeral was held in the Davidson Presbyterian Church and was largely attended. There were also very many beautiful floral offerings. Her former pastor and present pastor, Drs. Richards and Moffett, conducted the funeral. She was buried in the church cemetery.

Mr. F. J. Knox, senior elder of the Presbyterian Church and oldest resident of Davidson, passed away quietly Thursday, December 27th. The funeral was held in the church the next day, conducted by Drs. Richards and Moffett.

CARD OF THANKS

To those who rendered thoughtful service to us during the serious illness of Mrs. Milburn, we wish to give our thanks. Your kindness was of great aid in helping us all to bear up under the trial and to keep our faith steady. Her condition is now greatly improved, and she is gaining strength rapidly. May the richest blessings of a gracious Father be with you.

The Milburns.

Davidson School Supplies
Stationery
Make This Store Your Headquarters

Thanking the many patrons of the Davidson Book and Stationery Co. for their liberal support in the past, the present management requests a liberal share of your trade in the future.

Note Books
Superior Soda Service
New Records Every Week

W. S. HENDERSON
Successor to DAVIDSON BOOK & STATIONERY CO.
Davidson, N. C.

Fountain Pens
Felt Goods

780,000 Chesterfield cigarettes are now on their way South-Polewards with the Byrd Antarctic Expedition. We are officially informed that the selection of Chesterfield resulted from the individually expressed preferences of a majority of the expedition’s members. When it is recalled that these are—in the superlative sense—picked men... selected not only for bravery, ability, and experience, but also by searching tests of physical fitness... we may be forgiven for our considerable pride in their vote. And something of this pride, we believe, will be shared by all Chesterfield smokers. It is another of the many proofs piling up that the surest way to earn popularity is to deserve it!

CHESTERFIELD
MILD enough for anybody... and yet... THEY SATISFY
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.