~ THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

ZEB V. LONG, Jr. Editor-in-Chief

EDITORIAL STAFF
B. BLACK Managing Editor
W. McCUTCHAN Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Athletic Editor
J. F. PRESTON Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN Feature Editor
J. F. JARRATT Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. A. CANNON Asst. Bus. Mgr.
J. L. BOYD Subscription Mgr.
J. J. BAKER Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY Solicitor
J. H. McKINNON Solicitor
J. O. MANN Solicitor
J. E. RUFF Solicitor
J. L. SEVIER Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. S. HEEFNER
W. OSBORNE
D. MIDDLETON Secretary-Treasurer
C. G. PEPPER
J. MATTHEWS
G. DUNKLIN
G. MARTIN
W. LEA
R. SMITH
C. W. F. SPENCER
J. O. STEPHENSON
W. T. HANCOCK
J. MOREHEAD
JOHN M. BROWN
N. B. DICKS
G. P. PARDINGTON

OCTOBER 31, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
—Expects to see the whole student body behind that team Saturday.
—Wants a victory over the Virginia Cadets to make up for three consecutive lickings at their hands.
—Hopes that Wildcat line will charge better than it did last week.
—Believes that the coming of Dr. Sam Glasgow to Davidson was a great inspiration to the entire college.
—Thanks Dr. Glasgow for his wonderful messages.
—Reminds you of the dedicatory service for the new organ tomorrow evening.
—Also reminds you that Home-Coming Day is just around the corner.
—Serves notice that the freshman game tomorrow will be a thriller.
—Wishes the best of luck and great success to the little Cats.

THE SAME OLD PROBLEM

The recent newspaper flare wherein the findings of Carnegie Tech’s committee on athletics were set before the public created a great deal of favorable comment. Nobody can deny that the work of such a committee is worthwhile, for the very fact that it undertakes to survey a rather impossible field and succeeds to some extent is fairly good credit for the committee, and then, too, nearly everybody, whether they will admit it or not, realizes that the field of intercollegiate competition has long been stained with something other than the cleat marks of “college boys” who were out to give their all for “dear old Pelham.”

It is good to see that some body of authority has the courage to come into the open and attack the present system of “stock market” football, even if the attack is too mild and too narrow in its swath. Continued attack may serve to wake up some factions of the sport-loving public, and to show them that the old-time “ray-ray” has changed to “pay-pay” and the frantic waving of college pennants to the equally frantic waving of dollar bills, often in the hands of college officials, more often, perhaps, in the hands of victory-mad alumni.

The price of victory has ever been a great one, but to the small college of today it is fast becoming an impossible one. The world outside, and sometimes the college within, knows nothing of the continuous battle to procure athletes. The fact that much of the activity rests in the hands of college alumni helps to shield the real truth in many instances, and makes the problem one which grows ever more tangled. Most people abhor the idea of “paying athletes” as that term is generally considered. Yet, when you come down to it, an alumnus can hardly be blamed for taking enough interest in his college’s success to take some boy and send him to school there in order to promote the athletic status of the institution. Certainly the boy is not to be blamed for accepting the offer which enables him to go practically free.

In the face of the present trend in college athletics, the school which is able to maintain its “honorable” policy, and to adhere strictly to amateur rules is indeed a wonder in the world. Yet the apparent triumph of ideal over practice is one which will bring only consolation of doubtful type to the college and to its supporters, for the hue and cry today is “A winning football team—the best advertisement for your college.” Yes, the price of victory has reached the sky. Is there any limit?

Carnegie Tech touched the surface of the matter. That is all. And that will remain the extent of official knowledge. The problem has woven itself into the whole fabric of college life today, and there seems to be no limit. Statements continue to pour out from the offices of college presidents upholding the athletic purity of their institution, but the man who watches football year in and year out has learned to take these statements with a large grain of salt, and he sits in the stands, watches his team go down to defeat, and mutters to himself: “If I had the money, I’d certainly send that coach a football team.” The fabled college with the team made up of hard-fighting youngsters, who studied books more than they studied cross-backs and forward passes has become the exception rather than the rule, hasn’t it?

FREE ADMISSION

The movement begun sometime ago by several colleges of the state to bring about the free admission of students to all athletic contests between these colleges seems to have quieted down a little. The original plan was to form an alliance between the so-called “Big Five” colleges of this state, get the athletic associations of these schools to co-operate in admitting students free, and so increase support for the teams and promote student interest in intercollegiate athletics. It is unlikely that anything definite can be done this year. Time has shown that such matters usually lie on the table for some time, while the red tape is unraveled. However, there is hope that the idea will find realization in the future, and most of the activity now consists in moulding student opinion in the desired direction. If a demand for this step should come from the students at the various colleges along with an assurance from them that it would mean better backing for their teams, it is hard to see how athletic authorities could turn the proposition down. We believe that the movement is a worthy one and hope that effective steps can be taken within the next few months.

Incidentally, it would be a fine thing for the student governments of state schools to co-operate on the matter under discussion, not only because of its immediate value to the students, but because the foundation for better understanding and more profitable associations among colleges and college men at large would probably be laid. A lot remains to be done before the proper spirit exists in the relationships between colleges. Only through meeting on common ground and working out mutual problems can an ideal condition of fellowship be approached.

VALUE IN A SHEEPSKIN?

Can a college education be exchanged for cash? Harold Forian Clark, of Columbia University, has answered the question by a brief and emphatic “No!” In a report based on nearly a year’s study this young investigator of the economics of education, who has been studying the relation between “higher education and the average American’s earning power,” asserts that “you cannot train 100,000 for 90,000 jobs without creating pressure to decrease the remuneration of the 90,000.” The persons who are earning high wages today would have made them without the help of education, Dr. Clark declares. Dr. Clark also says that schooling has tremendous powers of directing people into channels other than the most productive ones.

It is very probable that Dr. Clark’s conclusions are correct. If, however, he is casting blame upon the educational institutions for directing persons into work which is not financially productive, he is equally wrong. Neither a sheepskin nor financial security is the end of education; the aim of education must always be to teach the individual to live the richest and fullest life possible, to teach him the art of appreciation. Having learned these things, the university student who turns out to be a financial failure is by no means a failure demanding the world’s pity. He may, in many cases, be the person who is to be envied.—Daily Kansan.

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

Never before has the stock market collapsed as suddenly or as completely as it has in the past week. Huge sums, aggregating hundreds of millions of dollars, have been lost. Many members ofsociety's “four hundred” have blushed; and then to scurry away from fashionable resorts and watering places. Many lambs have been fleeced; many wolves have grown fat. American citizens should be thankful that there is a Federal Reserve System. If you have forgotten who conceived the idea for the treasury mechanism of the United States, look at his picture the next time you have a new ten-dollar bill. If ever!!

There is mutiny in the ranks! This announcement was recently broadcast from Salvation Army headquarters in London. There is no organization in the world more efficient than a well-officered military force. But, authorities have ever lamented the occasional union of Church and State. There must be doubt as to the success attendant upon a charitable and evangelistic body which operates in the form of an intricate military force. Few people can be promoted to any position with speed, in whatever group it may be, and still be expected to function with anticipated zeal. The biggest man gets to the top slowly. (In more ways than one).

Attention must be called to a recent editorial in The Charlotte Observer, in which that editor successfully and roundly scored the reports of Communists’ press organs, in connection with the recent strike disturbance in Gaston County. These papers asserted that sectional prejudice was exercised in that all Southern men involved were acquitted or lightly sentenced, while Northern agitators received sentences ranging from ten to twenty years in length. Fun was made of the Southern bar, and most serious, of Southern justice. It was aptly pointed out that the men receiving the longest terms were those men against whom the evidence was most incriminating. Justice was rendered!

Communism may or may not have its advantages, but sectional feeling has no place in a united democracy. Lee's veterans will live forever in the hearts of their descendants. The memory of the Grand Army of the Republic will likewise endure. But even the most radical must pause before tearing asunder the Union which was consummated only by the blood of the “maiores.”

If there are those subscribers, in the corporation of DuBose and DuBose, who dubiously follow the conquests of Tarzan of the Apes, let them hesitate. Comparatively recently has man indulged in howls of fiendish delight at bloodshed. In September, 1901, there occurred at Balangiga, Philippine Islands, one of the bloodiest massacres of all times. Pursuing in the administration’s attempt to subjugate, “peacefully,” these primitive people, Company C took its post at this out-of-the-way point. Without warning, a superior force of natives attacked the white troops. Only by hard fighting were a few survivors able to make their way to safety. Howling bolomen sprang from the brush with terrifying screams. One well-directed blow and a head fell cleanly from the shoulders of the victim. (Let the strong-hearted interview Sergeant Kirby. He can show them a bolo.) Peace treaties have little influence over the primitive instincts of freedom.

There have been famous humorists. Such names as Bill Nye, whose practical wit once cost a magician friend over ten thousand dollars, George Ade, Mark Twain, Jess Pugh, and many others should be included in the list. However, without a doubt, Will Rogers, the Texas Steer, leads the Western Hemisphere. All who read his comments or see his pictures are impressed with his genuine laugh-arousing qualities. At times his statements are too pathetically true to be funny; refer to his usual cracks on Congress. The greatest humorist is the man who can move you to hysterical laughter one minute, and transpose you to tears the next. Rogers can do it.

Smokehouse Saga
By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weekly)

When this paper comes out, if ever, the eerie night of Hallowe’en will probably be a thing of the past. In fact, it will doubtless be safely in the past to the extent of three or four days when the postmaster finally socks the old Davidsonian in our mailboxes, unless, of course, a miracle enables the College Consternation to pull in on time Thursday. However, we might as well leave this realm of the impossible and delve into the merely supernatural.

Hallowe’en is a wonderful opportunity for all morons and other types of practical jokers to limber up and indulge in such forms of good, clean, wholesome sport as putting ground glass in poor, innocent, lil’ biddies’ chickie feed, mixing concrete in Grandpa’s mush, or leaving out the egg in the dish of spinach. But this old world is just naturally becoming too civilized to pull a real, speedy celebration for this night when witches, goblets, and elves wander abroad. It’s too hard nowadays to find a horse or a cow to hoist up on your prospective victim’s room, and as for taking the wheels off some poor, old soul’s automobile—have you ever changed a tire? Yes, it is too much trouble. Of course, there are real good Hallowe’en stunts that our forefathers never dreamed of that we can pull now such as putting firecrackers in Papa’s radio or sawing the wings of Uncle Uriah’s airplane in half. Yea, verily, children, Hallowe’en will flourish with a deafening crash as long as mankind can get a laugh out of the sight of a portly gentleman slipping on a banana peel and sitting suddenly, violently, and painfully on the cold, hard pavement.

When you try to explain Hallowe’en to Freshmen and other little tots, you find yourself floundering about in deep water. It’s easy enough to fasten the annual gifts of violet and violent socks and ties on Sandy Claws, but it’s a roadster of a different Duco when you try to blame a few inoffensive little witches, giants, and goblins for an artistically decorated campus; the presence of a wild assortment of glue, syrup, feathers, snakes, phonograph needles, etc., etc., in your bed; and the discovery of homesick cattle in your room which is obviously not their element.

Well, I think that I’ve run the Hallowe’en idea in the ground just about as far as I can. Now for something hot. Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy! How about the great Davidson fire of last Sunday?

WUXTRY! WUXTRY! WUXTRY!
CHURCH SERVICE DESTROYED BY FIRE

(Associated Pest).—In the midst of the church service of Sabbath last, the announcement “a house is on fire as quick as you can!” was made. Immediately, the student body endangered their souls by bidding the church a fond and furious farewell, rushing madly to the fire-house, sliding down the pole, and dashing off in a cloud of dust in search of the gleam. “Don’t spare the horses” was their battle-cry as they sold out while the crowd roared. It’s needless to say that there wasn’t any more fire as a jack-rabbit. Then to make matters still worse, the far-famed siren of which so much was expected imitated a baby, a radio, a Yo-Yo, or what have you, and refused to show off. In fact, it made just about as much noise as the whisper of a deaf mute who has bronchitis and a mouth full of milk toast. This was the last straw that crushed the Davidson spirit, and the stunned students settled back into the usual Sunday afternoon coma.

You’ve probably heard our Charlotte boys tell what a lively place Charlotte is. Yes, it is a lively city. Why only last week, a man dropped dead on the Square and it was three days before his body was found.

The greatest humorist is the man who can move you to hysterical laughter one minute, and transpose you to tears the next. Rogers can do it.

Again we urge the readers of THE DAVIDSONIAN to devote their attention to the students’ own page of features. We feel that contributions of real value are appearing there every week, columns and comments which are excellently penned. We hope this page will help to bridge the gap between routine news items and, we hope, classical literature, and will tend to round out the makeup of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Horace Ervin gives you a weekly column on MUSIC. He clothes the history of music in attractive garments, and his important line. Bob posted on the latest books, one of the club members contributing a comprehensive review each week. KIM’S KOLUMN comprises a survey of the world of sport, and is written in the breezy fashion so typical of good sport writing. McCutchan, Aldean, and Ragin bid their weekly pean to world humor, and Davidson athletics. Read them all. We believe you will enjoy every one.