6 ¥ THE DAVIDSONIAN February 28, 1929

* Answer Is Affirmative

“Do Men Follow Women in Styles?”

He-men collegians wear striped pajamas in the privacy of their fraternity houses because Peggy Joyce or somebody wore ’em publicly
at the Lido last summer. And Joe College, ’29, will adorn himself in fancy silken velvet vests and lounging robes
because Paul Poiret dressed a couple of his models in the same material for a stroll down the Rue de
la Paix. Such are at least well-justified conclusions if we take at face value the startling statements of Gaston J.
Ducerf, European style scout for leading American haberdashers, as published in the February issue of the “Concentrator,” men’s wear organ
of a Chicago manufacturing firm.

Says Mr. Ducerf, “When called on to answer the question, ‘Do men follow women in styles?’ there is no necessity
for using diplomatic language to get around the question. From a careful survey of not only the best men’s wear
shops but also the most fashionable couturiers of the Rue de la Paix during the past few months, the answer
must be in the affirmative.”

Mr. Ducerf, probably not thinking of the irritation he would cause harmlessly masculine-minded students of the U. S. A., makes
out a very good case for himself. “The trend,” he continues, “was noticeable away last summer at the most fashionable
seaside places when men started to use elaborate and fancy bathing suits in bright colors similar to those displayed by
film and stage stars. This was also true of robes; very little difference being noticeable between the extravagant and modernistic
patterns gotten out for men’s wear and the slightly more refined articles by the women.

“During the recent fall and winter sport season the best dressmakers in Paris turned out many ensembles in knitted pullover
sweaters and dresses of futuristic patterns. This has been immediately reproduced in articles recently by the most fashionable haberdashers in
men’s pullovers, golf hose, cardigans, etc. Under the name ‘poloblends’ I predict that one such article will meet with wide
approval this spring and summer for American sports.”

But the trend is not one of imitation, but rather adoption of the best, Mr. Ducerf hastens to explain (to
keep men in good temper, probably). He says that all men are learning to dress for their own sake rather
than for the sake of their clothes. “Men are learning to buy their haberdashery in ensemble to blend and harmonize
with their other clothing. It is that by which we may account for the present trend. You must not mistake
me—men are taking nothing that is effeminate from the ladies.

“Rather, women being recognized as such experts in harmonizing colors, quite a few manufacturers confining their production to men’s wear
are finding it to their advantage to watch the latest productions of the Champs Elysees.”

Mr. Ducerf has just completed a special study of the smarter places where the society of two continents meet and
the most fashionable styles are displayed. He has been interpreting the trend in men’s wear for some time for American
importers, and manufacturers.

MY IDEAL MAN
By A Woman

I’ve never seen my ideal man, except in day dreams. In that way I see him almost every day. Some
day, I believe I will actually see him in person, and when I do, then I can tell more about
my ideal man. The way he looks in all my day dreams, he has a Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde
personality. He must be able to change at will in conformance with my moods. He must be a gentleman, preferably
the Roosevelt type of gentleman. This ideal man of my dreams is of necessity athletic in type and in physical
build. His hair won’t make a whoop to me. It can be blonde and curly, black and straight, or anything
else, except—gone. He can’t be bald-headed. His eyes, also, are immaterial, just so he can see out of them, and
look into mine with them.

He must have two things principally—ambition, and a good disposition. No matter what he is when I first see him
in my dreams, no matter how far advanced, popular, or how accomplished he is, he must have a driving power
to advance farther, and do more. As to his disposition, my ideal man must not let little things bother him,
but it is all right for him to be stern and commanding on the big things.

As to scholarship, I can’t imagine my own ideal being a scholar, unless he is that way without being a
bookworm. If he is, so much the better, but I shouldn’t care if he never made higher than a “B”
average. The best scholastic quality I can imagine in him is that he has the ability to wriggle a “B”
out of a “C plus” grade.

One of the most essential qualities of my ideal man is that he must be likeable to other men. If
he is extremely popular with women, I’d be rather afraid to risk him. If the other men whom he knows
like him, that’s his recommendation to me.

MY IDEAL WOMAN
By A Man

No, sir, she doesn’t have to be any mental prodigy—my ideal woman. She must know how to dress, but not
in a manner that will attract undue attention. She doesn’t necessarily have to be beautiful, but she must be the
type that you can look at without getting tired. She must be adaptable, and should be able to take care
of herself in various types of company. She must be the type that can make almost any man she likes
believe he can kiss her if he tries hard enough, but she must be unusually careful whom she likes. I
would prefer, of course, that the chosen one be myself. She must be good enough to be good, and just
bad enough to make you believe she could be bad if she wanted to but doesn’t want to.

My ideal woman should have ideals. They must not be the kind of ideals she can go around talking about
constantly, but that kind which actually stand out in her character and which are not changeable with her moods. While
speaking of moods, the ideal woman in my conception must never let her companions know just the nature of that
mood, but must try to be her own little self in spite of adversity or triumph.

As a student, my ideal woman does not need to average “A plus,” but she should seldom let her average
fall below a “B.” She should engage in student activities and take at least an ostensible interest in sports, both
for men and for women.

My ideal woman must be morally sound. To be thus, I would be disappointed if she were a prude. I
would want her to be the kind of a girl who acknowledges her religious nature, and she should recognize that
there is a Supreme Power which guides her very existence.

My ideal woman is an all-around girl, the kind of woman who can be depended upon to be the mother
of my children, and not make those children a disgrace to myself, herself, and the race—From the Lariat.

Y. M. C. A. Basketeers Conquer Lincolnton

In a rather slow game, the Davidson Y. M. C. A. basketeers succeeded in downing the Lincolnton All Stars by
a 19-8 count. This was the first win of the season for the local aggregation. Featuring the second half was
the close guarding of the “Y” guards who prevented the All Stars from scoring a single point in this period.
McGavock was high scorer for the evening with seven markers. Combs of Lincolnton ranking second with four. The “Y” team
showed a marked improvement in its attack, which was more effective than in any previous game. Lineups for the two
teams follow: For Lincolnton, Cook, center; Combs, Baxter, Shuford; Love, McCutchen, and Cornwell; for the “Y” Overman, Gilmore, center; McGavock,
Miller, Smith, McCall, Martin, and Montgomery.

PHI DELTA THETA

Triad. The other members of the triad being Beta Theta Pi and Sigma Chi. The expansion of the fraternity has
been broad but a conservative element has sprung up in recent years, and most of the expansion has been directed
toward the universities rather than in the colleges of the country. The North Carolina Gamma chapter is the ninety-seventh active
chapter of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity.

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers
BARNETT and COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Major Chords See-Fever

I must go down to the dean again, to the tyrant lord in his den,
And all I ask is a good line and a drag to help me then.
But my long face, and my sob song, and my beer-suit quaking
Tell a sad tale of my weak heart.and my poor knees shaking. I must go down to the dean again,
to take my stand on the mat, For a note came and a call came, and there’s no denying that;
And all I ask is a good break and the dean’s mood joyous, And a good chance for a nice
chat with none to annoy us. I must go down to the dean again to give him a new excuse,
To the dark room, to the black room, to the torture rack and the noose; And all I ask is
half a chance to spill my line of chatter And then a date with a nice girl to brag about
the matter.

WILDCATS CLOSE SEASON
(Continued from page 5)

Duke fg fp tp
Chandler __- @ Or WounCH ER: sonasesssete cs ashe 000
UONKOSKisae cero ee cece s 000
RORetshecieseeecie su cree 2 0-4
(Ci doy. Yo}; REN Renn ern ONT VEIGEt,
Farley 4
Werber 4
POtals jsee se weee un Aion Ace 15 3 33

Davidson - Carolina
Davidson fg fp tp
BritGhett: oe cesee cc eee 0 00
Calhoun y
RiUskieccens
Wilson
Johnston
Shepherd
Moore
Goodson
Proctor
Mota lS eee skeet os ey

Carolina
Hackney
Price
(CHAWNER SEee ns cea
Satterfield
Neiman
Harper
Dameron
Marpet
Smith
Choate
Brown
Graig eas 3
POA Se sSoiene Sey ae! Pp Grae Ls

Davidson-N. C. State
Davidson fg fp tp
Calhoun 0 2 2
Pritchett 3 4 10
Shepherd — Wansecese OORT,
RRS pst esc aya) ee cee aN T0128
BARGGt Oty seacrsi pete stake ees 0 00
GOOdSO Hai gre i ea I Ing
Johnston CHse 3
‘Wilson 0 0
BO tall sistverars ies sae aie 7 8 22

N. C. State fg fp tp
WOUN Rec cee ei eee 9
Aa tis sooo soa nies iio erate 4
Mast eneccs soe cto Ames o
Goodwin 17
Owens arcs ve acne see eae oO yi}
Totals: 2ocetneiccceey nee 13 4 30

TRUSTEES DECIDE
(Continued from page 1)

requested that it be given the use of Temporary. This building is, in many respects, better than the old Armory,
since it is steam-heated, will offer more room, and will afford a rifle gallery. Another point decided upon by the
board of trustees was that a careful study should be made of the medical care of the students with a
view to improving and making more complete the medical and infirmary service. A nominating committee headed by Dr. Walter L.
Lingle, of Richmond, Va., chairman of the board, was designated to make recommendations at the June meeting for the next
President of Davidson. Associated with Dr. Lingle in these deliberations will be Smith Richardson, of Greensboro; Dr. Byron Clark, of
Salisbury; Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, of Charlotte; Dr. R. H. McCaslin, of Jacksonville, Fla.; Dr. Neal L. Anderson, of Savannah,
Ga.; and S. Clay Williams of Winston-Salem.

Profs. E. A. Beaty, J. H. Davis, Jr., and W. P. Cummings, who have been acting as assistant professors, were
elevated by the board to associate professorships. This election also carried with it an increase in salary, and the salaries
of a number of the other ale) Bel were increased. A year’s leave of absence was granted to Profs. Fred
L. Blythe and A. C. Gore, for advanced study, Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean, was also granted a leave of
absence in order to sail on May 13 for Palestine and other points. Dr. C. R. Harding and Dr. W.
Grey, who have been automatically retired under the annuity plan at Davidson, were both re-elected for another year.

LECTURE GIVEN
(Continued from page 1)

of interest were shown among which were views of the Alpine peaks and a picture of the decapitulated statue of
St. Luke. The theme of his talk, Dr. Anderson stated, would be the idea gotten from the passage in Isaiah
which said “You shall mount up like the eagles with wings.” When flying for the first time things took on
an entirely new aspect and appearance. The landscape seen as a whole seemed almost perfectly symmetrical and thus might we
profit by looking at one another and the affairs and problems of life from the eagle's perspective if we could
only bring ourselves to do this. Day by day the world becomes smaller and, as time and not space becomes
the measure of the earth, we are brought closer and closer together with one another throughout the whole world. Thus
it becomes vitally important that people everywhere begin to understand each other more.

Here Dr. Anderson described one phase of his flight through the Alps from Venice to Rome. The plane was about
two miles high and there were clouds of the purest snow twenty and thirty thousand feet high, surrounding them. Coming
out of these the passengers got their first glimpse of the blue Adriatic and thus might we get a glimpse
of the glorious eternity if only took the eagle’s perspective.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

LOOK -- Over The New Line of Socks
AT The Students’ Store.
IT’S YOURS, WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?

But there are limitations to the eagle’s perspective. The limit of the sky for the physical flight is about 42,000
feet which is an extremely small distance as compared with the rest of the earth. So when the time soon
comes that men will reach the limitations of all things physical then will be the day there shall be mental,
spiritual and intellectual flight. Thus the limitations of the eagle and birdman are not for the soul also. Then Dr.
Anderson spoke of the homing instinct of the eagle. The secret of the success of the greatest of birdmen, Lindbergh,
is due partly at least to his homing instinct. No scientific achievement can answer the question that man everywhere is
continually asking himself—whither am I going? This is to be answered by the spiritual and not the physical being of
man.

INSTALLATION OF S. D. P.
(Continued from page 1)

and yet not be able to pass the required tests for entrance into the fraternity. The fraternity is a goal
to be reached by all-around athletics. To pass the required tests, a man must work long enough to become proficient
in the technique and knack of doing the different requirements, and he must also have enough stamina to stand the
tests. Another feature of the fraternity is the fact that a varsity letter may be substituted for any one event
except swimming. However, if the man is a two or three letter man, he may only use one of his
letters for this purpose. The following is a part of the constitution of the fraternity.

The following requirements must be met before any college will be considered a member of the society.
a. At least three students from the college must satisfy the full requirements.
b. No student shall be admitted to membership who is found delinquent in scholarship.
c. The candidate must command the respect of his associates as an athlete and a gentleman.
d. The committee on certification from each college shall be elected by the faculty and shall sign each certificate of
membership. At least one faculty representative must be present when the trials are being conducted. The officers of any college
chapter shall include the President of the college, and five faculty members, one of whom shall be the director of
Physical Education.

Physical Requirements
1. Sprint 100 yards in 11:3-5ths seconds.
2. Run the 220-yard low hurdles in 31 seconds, leaving all hurdles standing.
3. High Jump 5 feet.
4. Broad Jump 17 feet.
5. Shot Putt (16 lb. Shot) 30 feet for men weighing 160 lbs. or over. This requirement is to be
scaled down in accordance with the proportion—160 lbs. is to candidate’s weight, as 30 ft. is to requirement.
6. Pole Vault 8 ft. 6 inches.
7. Baseball Throw, 250 feet on fly.
8. Punting Football 120 feet on fly.
9. Swim 100 yards in two minutes.
10. Run the mile in six minutes.
11. Turn front hand springs lighting on feet only.
12. Hand stand maintained ten seconds.
13. Fence Vault—height of chin—body not touching the bar.
14. Erect Carriage of body maintained habitually.

Could any call be clearer than that to minister to life? He came not to be ministered unto but to
minister. Union Theological Seminary has helped many to a happy and achieving life; perhaps we could help you.

Union Theological Seminary

What is A Call to the Ministry?

Davidson Theatre
Monday, March 4th
“The Canary Murder Case”
With WILLIAM POWELL AND Evelyn Brent

Tuesday, March 5th
“The Leatherneck”
With WILLIAM BOYD AND ALAN HALE

Wednesday, March 6th
“Children of the Ritz”
With DOROTHY MACKAILL AND JACK MULHALL

Thursday, March 7th
“The Duke Steps Out”
With WILLIAM HAINES

Friday, March 8th
“Tropic Madness”
With LEATRICE JOY

Saturday, March 10th
“Sunset Pass”
With JACK HOLT
