THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1929

CAROLINA OVERCOMES LEAD TO BEAT DAVIDSON

Wildcats’ Early Onslaught Forces Tar Heel First String to Contest Side Line Shots

By P. R. Alderman

Whatever impressive facts were brought to the minds of old Davidsonians returning for the annual Homecoming celebration, there must have been at least one that they won’t forget for another year anyhow—that the Wildcats haven't lost one bit of fight as the years go by. In spite of nasty football weather and a battle against almost insurmountable odds, the Cats proved to their followers that they had a team to be proud of. As “Doc” Charlie said, “Carolina can’t put but eleven men on the field at once,” which held true. But there was nothing to keep them from running in eleven new men at one clip, a right which they took advantage of without hesitation. No team yet, not even the Army, has been able to stop the Wildcats with their second-stringers, and when the Tar Heels tried this, they didn’t take long to rectify their error by sending in the pick of their squad.

Of the 22 men on the field at one time, there was always one outstanding—Captain Thad Brock of the Wildcats. Although a star in every game this year, never before has Brock demonstrated so impressively his right to an all-state berth and to serious consideration by those who pick all-southern elevens. There were others who were outstanding, but none were so consistently in almost every play as he was. The Tar Heels never forgot that he was in the game.

Playing against such a traditional foe as Carolina, the Red and Black eleven showed such fight and ability that they make it almost impossible to single out many who were individual stars. They were working together, and every man did his part to get a victory or make winning hard for the opposing team. There were too many odds to be overcome for the Cats to score a win, but the Carolina men had one of their toughest battles yet. The Tar Heel eleven had pretty high hopes of maintaining their high average of 33 points on every team they’ve played this year, but it seems that the Wildcats were determined to lower this even though they couldn’t hand over a big upset and defeat their much stronger foe. They got within one touchdown of their goal but found too many red-jerseyed men in their way to tally any more, in spite of their efforts.

The visitors presented one little troublemaker for the Davidson eleven who showed why and how he has won the reputation that he now enjoys—Shorty Branch. There have been some speedy and elusive backs seen in action on Richardson field this fall, but, in the writer’s opinion, this diminutive sophomore quarter of the Carolina squad would have to be called on to show them how it’s supposed to be done. Although not tallying for the visitors, he played a prominent part in their win.

All the speed, however, was not shown by blue-jerseyed men. “Red” Parrish, in one of the most spectacular plays of the day, ran through the Carolina eleven and then outdistanced two of their men to score Davidson’s first and lone tally of the day. Joe McCall and Don King didn’t make things easy for the opposing eleven either. In fact, the Wildcat backfield proved a worthy match for the “hundred backs” of the Tar Heels.

Only the Turkey-day classic is left now, and the Cats will have ample time to prepare for the Duke Blue Devils’ invasion of Richardson field. Judging from the State-Duke game, things are going to be just about even Thanksgiving, and with a student body backing them, the Wildcats are going to be hard to stop in this last game of the season. It won't be a walkaway for either team, however, no matter who wins.

Captain Thad Brock Plays Greatest Game of Career

FINAL SCORE 26-7

Parrish Scores for Davidson While Ward, Nash, and Slusser Tally For Visitors

The University of North Carolina turned a fighting Davidson Wildcat team back Saturday by a score of 26 to 7. The Tar Heels did not have an easy afternoon by any means, although it was obvious from the time that Chuck Collins sent his first string team in that Carolina would come off on the long end of the count. When one looks for the star of the game, however, it is necessary to go to the left end of the losers, and there is Capt. Thad Brock. Playing bareheaded, his jersey covered with mud, he turned in the best game of any man on the field. He was time and again crashing through to get the ball carriers from behind or stopping plays that came towards his end. Only once or twice did a Tar Heel get around his position. As outstanding as was his work in the line, his punting was equally as brilliant.

Coach Collins pulled a Rockne stunt on Davidson by sending in his second string, but when Parrish broke through them in the middle of the first period and ran 37 yards for a touchdown, he immediately put his first string boys in. The latter received, and on the second play after the kickoff, Ward broke through and carried the ball 68 yards to score, Spaulding kicking the goal to make it seven-all. Early in the second period, Branch returned a punt.25 yards to midfield, and shot a pass to Ward who was lying out near the sidelines, the latter trotting across the goal line unmolested. The other two scores for Carolina came as the result of straight football. They scored again in the second period after a march of about sixty yards, and finally in the third following a prolonged advance from their 20-yard line. Slusser put the first over, while Nash scored the last tally. Little Johnny Branch thrilled the spectators time and again by his brilliant returns of punts. He lived up to his name of “Ole Man River” by just rolling along. Nash, Ward, and Slusser proved to be the most consistent gainers from scrimmage for Carolina. Farris almost hogged the show in the line, but Lipscomb at center played a good game, both on offense and defense. Don King and Red Parrish both played almost the entire game for Davidson, and did it well. After McCall was forced out by injuries, King handled the safety position without a fumble. Brohard went in as a substitute and played a great game. It was his first contest since the Clemson fracas. Joe McCall played his usual brilliant game until forced out by his injuries. Fraley ran the team well and backed up the line effectively. DeCamp, Milton, Baker, and Mathis all played very good games against the strong Carolina line.

Line-up and summary:
Carolina Position Davidson
Brock L.E. Ott
Racker L.T. McIver
DeCamp L.G. Mason
Center Mathis R.G.
Covington R.T. Brown
Proctor R.E. Jackson
Fraley Q.B. Parrish
McCall R.H. King F.B.

Score by quarters:
Carolina 7 13 6 0—26
Davidson 7 0 0 0—7

Scoring touchdowns: For Carolina, Ward 2, Slusser, Nash. For Davidson, Parrish. Extra point: for Carolina, Spaulding (placement), Fenner (pass from Branch). For Davidson, Brock (placement).

Freshmen Rally to Beat Wofford Rats
Wildkittens Score Three Touchdowns in Last Half

The Davidson Wildkittens got the Homecoming Celebration off to a good start last Friday by defeating the Wofford College Freshmen 18-13 on Richardson Field. This was the second win of the season for the Frosh in four starts. After being decisively outplayed during the first half by the Wofford Yearlings, who rolled up a 13-point lead in that period, the Kittens staged a late rally the feature of which was a dazzling aerial attack which netted three touchdowns. The Wofford markers were made in the first quarter on a blocked punt which Jackson fell on behind the goal line, and a 22-yard pass, touchdown being scored by Rogers. In the second half, the Wildkittens opened up a passing attack which could not be stopped. The first counter was made on a 27-yard pass, Mills to Clarke. The second came after Mills had passed to Pierce for 18 yards, Fleagle scoring on an end run. Pierce failed to kick goal and Wofford led 13-12. The winning marker was the result of a pass, Mills to Pierce, which netted 30 yards and a touchdown.

Summary:
Davidson Carolina
First downs 7 10
Penalties 15 yds. 30 yds.
Ground gained from scrimmage 161 yds. 214 yds.
Passes attempted 12 9
Passes completed 1 3
Passes intercepted 1 1
Ground gained passing 17 yds. 41 yds.
Average length punts and kickoffs 36 yds. 35 yds.
Average length punts and kickoffs returned 22 yds. 13 yds.
Fumbles 0 2
Fumbles recovered 0 2

Red Parrish, Badin lad, whose fast broken-field running has created comment, scored the first touchdown Saturday by a sensational 35-yard dash.

"It's funny I don’t remember limping when I left home," said a certain professor as he walked down the street with one foot on the curb and the other in the gutter.

BROOKLYN BRIDGE SPAN 1595 FT.
GILA BRIDGE SPAN 2373 FT.

All in a day’s work for telephone men

A specimen of construction work in the Bell System is the new catenary span carrying telephone wires across the Gila River, Arizona. The “natural” obstacle is no longer an obstacle while there are telephone men to find a way through it or over it. This is but one example in a general expansion program. Others are such widely varied projects as linking New York to Atlanta by cable, erecting 200 telephone buildings in 1929, developing a $15,000,000 factory at Baltimore. The telephone habit is growing apace, and the Bell System will continue to keep a step ahead of the needs of the nation.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones
“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN”