February 21, 1929 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

BASKETEERS OFF ON FINAL TRIP

Davidson Grapplers Conquer N. C. State Men Here Saturday

Wildcats Win Three Bouts on Falls—Two on Time

THRILLING MATCH

Christenbury, Hill, and Marrow Throw Men to Help Matmen Cop First Victory of Year

In one of the best matches of the season, the Davidson Grapplers won from North Carolina State here on Saturday
night, February 16. The Cats took five bouts of the eight, and three of these were on falls.

In the 155-pound class, Christenbury threw Jones, N. C. State, in seven minutes and 10 seconds. Dameron, of State, lost
by a fall to Captain Hill, Davidson, in eight minutes and 15 seconds. One of the features matches came when
Marrow of Davidson threw Crowson, State, in five minutes and 40 seconds, wrestling in the unlimited class.

The best match of the evening was lost by Brock, of Davidson, to Captain Moore, State, by a time advantage
of one minute and 45 seconds. This match was in the 145-pound class. Moore had his hands full and came
very near losing when Brock unloosed pent-up energy, but Moore finally won the match on time.

Below is a summary of the meet:

115-pound Class: Eason, N. C. State, won from Cowan, Davidson, in seven minutes and 29 seconds.
125-pound Class: Stovall, State, lost to Flythe, Davidson, in seven minutes, nine seconds.
135-pound Class: Perry, State, lost to Herriott, Davidson, with a time advantage of two minutes.
145-pound Class: Captain Moore, State, won from Brock, Davidson, in one minute and 34 seconds.
155-pound Class: Jones, State, lost to Christenbury, Davidson, on a fall in seven minutes and 10 seconds.
165-pound Class: Choplin, State, won from Warren, Davidson, in three minutes and three seconds.
175-pound Class: Dameron, State, lost to Captain Hill, Davidson, by a fall in eight minutes and 15 seconds.
Unlimited Class: Crowson, State, lost to Marrow, Davidson, on a fall in five minutes and 40 seconds.

Referee: Nixon, of Concord "Y."

Wildcat Basketeers Take Easy Contest

Lynchburg Hornets No Match for Red and Black Team

In the final game of their northern invasion, the Davidson Wildcats downed the Lynchburg College Hornets at Lynchburg, 33-17. The
Wildcats had won two and lost three games on their trip until the Lynchburg game, which served to even things
up and make it an even split with the Northerners.

Davidson opened the game with a rush, piling up 15 points before Lynchburg registered. This was practically the margin by
which the Wildcats won. The game was rather slow but was closely guarded on both sides. After Lynchburg started to
score, the contest was on more even terms, but the Wildcats' lead was too big for the Hornets to threaten
victory.

Summary:
Davidson
Pritchett, f - 12 points
Chafmoybhay, f
Shepard, f
Rusk, c
Wilson, c
Johnson
Goodson
Calhoun
Captain Pritchett
Rusk

(Cut courtesy Eddie Brietz, Sports Editor Charlotte Observer)

CAT TRAX

As They Follow the Red and Black

By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Here's hoping that the varsity got all its losses...Out of its system during those three successive nights in Virginia. This
week is going to be the final thrust of the Wildcats at the state title, and though most of the
newspapers already assign the laurels to Carolina, there is no dodging the fact that Davidson is still a most dangerous
team, and one which can very easily throw a crimp into the works. The Cats had a schedule which was
unfavorable to a steady drive for the state title. Most of their games are coming right now when all other
Big Five teams have met and the race is considered over by most authorities. If Davidson had been allowed to
meet her Big Five competitors earlier in the season, we believe that the state race would be in a vastly
different situation now, and that the Wildcats would be in a very threatening position. It was mighty hard to drop
that game with V. M. I. by a single point. Just goes to show what a whale of a difference
a point or so makes. You can’t see a season through without some bad breaks, though, and so there’s not
much use lamenting the loss... The Washington and Lee Generals were victors by the indisputable right of the strongest. The
Generals are stirring up all sorts of trouble in the Southern Conference this year, and are favored by many to
cop the title. We attribute the loss to Virginia more to the weariness of the team than anything else, and
we hardly think that the Cavaliers have any better team than the Wildcats. Four more cracks at the basket and
then it will be all over for another year. But, gee, what cracks those are! Wake Forest, State, Duke, and
Carolina in quick succession. Don’t know what to prophesy about those games except a scrap in every case. We believe
that the Deacons will succumb without serious trouble, but the rest will be hard, with Duke the worst, in our
humble opinion. Carolina, in particular, is going to get a scrap. It’s been many years since Wildcat has clawed Tar
Heel on their home court. When that team faces the Carolina five it will carry with it the memory of
that near-win in Charlotte and the determination to eke out a surprise victory. The various classes seem to be responding
well to Captain Pritchett’s call for boxing aspirants, and before many moons, the thud of gloves will be heard as
the boys struggle for class honors. There is not an abundance of material here for boxing, but there are several
very good men who give promise of future development.

Make This Store Your Headquarters
"U-Push 'Em Anywhere
We'll See They Get There"
GFP Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE
ASHEVILLE RALEIGH ATLANTA

A Good Line of Pipes and Smokers Supplies
Come in and hear the latest song hits
W. S. HENDERSON
Davidson, N. C.
"DRUGS" "Prescriptions"

SAVE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS
Palmolive Shaving Cream - 35c
Palmolive Talcum - - - 25c
Total - - - - - 60c
For Both 35 cents
Make Our Store Your Store
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
"SODA" "Drug Sundries"

STATIONERY
Printed and Embossed
ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS
Aubrey Brown
Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Davidson Theatre
Monday, February 25th
RICHARD DIX in “Red Skin”
Tuesday, February 26th
“The Bellamy Trial”
Wednesday, February 27th
CHESTER CONKLIN in “Taxi 13”
Thursday, February 28th
VICTOR McLAGLEN in “Strong Boy”
Friday, February 29th
“The Wolf Song”
Saturday, February 30th
“Danger Street”
