ARMY GAME PLAY BY PLAY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON GYMNASIUM SATURDAY

Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 10, 1929 No. 4

Local I. R. C. Extends Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald an Invitation to Visit Davidson College While in U. S.

Dr. McConnell and H. E. Russell Collaborate in Attempt to Procure Speaker

PREMIER IN WASHINGTON

Dr. T. W. Lingle to Address Club at Regular Meeting Friday

On October 7 a telegram was wired to the British Prime Minister James Ramsay MacDonald from the International Relations Club
by S. R. Coker, President of the club. This telegram was written in collaboration with Dr. J. M. McConnell, professor
of history, and H. E. Russell, vice-president of the club. The plan to send a telegram of welcome to the
British Prime Minister was approved by the club in a meeting after chapel on last Monday morning. The purposes of
the International Relations Club in wiring Premier MacDonald were: (1) To voice their deep interest in the efforts now being
made towards world peace by the leaders in International Affairs. (2) To send a warm and courteous greeting to the
distinguished British visitor. (3) To extend an invitation to this great man to visit Davidson and to address the student
body and friends of the college. The telegram follows:

Prime Minister James Ramsay MacDonald,
The British Embassy,
Washington, D. C.

The International Relations Club of Davidson College sincerely welcomes you to our country. We feel that as a result of
your visit World Brotherhood and Peace will come nearer to realization. Human life sacrificed to war must be saved and
billions of money wasted in strife should be used for internal social and economic construction. May God direct you and
others to accomplish your high purpose. Probably the largest pure Scotch population in the United States resides in North Carolina
and their sons attend Davidson College in large numbers. Woodrow Wilson, the great world peace advocate, was a student in
our college for a year. The President, Faculty, Students, and friends of Davidson College invite you to the institution and
ask that you address them during your stay in America. We wish for you a most happy and successful visit
in this country.

Most respectfully yours,
Samuel R. Coker,
President Davidson College International Relations Club.

Dr. T. W. Lingle, professor of French and History, will speak to the International Relations Club in the Philanthropic Literary
Society Hall over the “Y” center this Friday night at 7:15. A cordial invitation is extended to all members of
the student body, faculty, and townspeople who are interested in International Relations to attend. Dr. Lingle will tell of his
trip during the past summer through Egypt, Palestine, Syria, Mesopotamia, Turkey, Greece, Crete, Sicily, and Italy.

Eight Davidson Men Want Rhodes Prize

Eight Davidson College students or Alumni, representing five different states, have been selected by the faculty's executive committee of this
institution to represent the college as candidates for the Rhodes Scholarship at Oxford University, England. These men will go to
their respective states on October 19 for appearance before committees which will determine the winner of each state. Competition among
students and alumni who were candidates from North Carolina was keenest. Eleven men, five of them seniors and six of
them alumni, presented their names as candidates to the executive committee. Of this number, three alumni were selected, T. E.
Lothery, Jr., of Davidson, who has been instructor in the department of physics here for a year; Riggs McConnell, of
Davidson, now coaching and teaching at (Continued on Page 2)

Excellent Prospect For New Rifle Team

With only two members of last year's rifle team absent from college this year, the prospects for the team seem
unusually good. One hundred and one men turned out Monday afternoon, and from this large number much good material should
be available. Eighty correspondence matches are scheduled for the season among these, contests with the Gastonia Rifle Club, the team
from Kemper military school, and the Wall Street Messenger Rifle Association of New York. The team expects to shoot shoulder
to shoulder with V. M. I, V. P. I, and North Carolina State. A three-day trip may be taken sometime
before Christmas. The target range is located in the basement of the armory, instead of the gymnasium as it was
last year. The new location is said to be much more convenient. Ranges one hundred, seventy-five, and one hundred and
fifty feet in length have been constructed. The officers of the year are: Captain Otto, director; Cadet Lieutenant C. P.
Greyer, Captain; and Cadet Sergeant J. L. Brock, Manager.

Brown Analyzes State’s Present Labor Problem

Professor of Economics Speaks Before Kiwanis Club of Mooresville

“Have done with Paternalism,” was the exhortation of Dr. Cecil K. Brown of Davidson’s Economics Department to a group of
leading business men of Mooresville who gathered Friday night at the Kiwanis Club of that city for their weekly dinner.
Doctor Brown was called upon for an almost impromptu address to the club, and he chose to comment upon the
tense labor problem of North Carolina. His speech on the whole was a clear-headed observation of the labor uprisings in
this state, particularly in Gastonia and in Marion. Doctor Brown had occasion to parallel the present outbreak of the laboring
classes with similar revolts in the North fifty years ago and in England a year ago. He affirmed that the
situation is not new to the world, but new to the capitalists and people of North Carolina only. “The communists
of this section,” Brown remarked, “are in no wise to be compared with those in Russia. Furthermore, the people of
this state,” he continued, “would not want real communism if they saw it. They seek merely a champion of their
rights, anyone who will open the way to higher wages. And therefore there is no real cause for alarm in
the persons of the communists.” In the course of his talk, Doctor Brown endeavored to accentuate four points. First of
all, “the paternalistic attitude will never solve the problem.” Doctor Brown cited the case of Mr. Pullman, the sleeping-car magnate,
who furnished his employees with all possible comforts and needs. His disinterested action, Doctor Brown said, was not appreciated. The
employees grumbled and complained that their whole life was Pullman: they slept in Pullman beds, ate in Pullman dining-houses, went
to Pullman churches, and when they died, were buried in Pullman graves. Doctor Brown observed that it was quite evident,
therefore, that the paternal- (Continued on Page 6)

All students are urged to notify Doctor Anderson, the photographic editor of the Annual, if the appointments for having their
pictures taken conflict with other plans. These notices are being mailed two days before the appointment. This is the only
time that individual pictures will be taken for this year’s Annual.

Sophomore Lineman Bud Raker, whose work on the forward wall has featured his first year on the Varsity Squad.

Davidson Team Prepares For Gridiron Battle at West Point on Saturday

Local Coaches Expected to Present Their Full Strength Against Much Stronger Foe

WILDCATS LEAVE TODAY

Game is First Ever to be Scheduled With Army Squad

When the Davidson Wildcats meet the U. S. Military Academy next Saturday, it will undoubtedly be the biggest game in
their football history. Although doped to lose by a seven touchdown majority and outweighed considerably in backfield and line, Davidson
players are looking forward to meeting the Army. They realize that little hope for victory can be entertained, but are
anxious to live up to their reputation of felting against foes far more powerful than they are.

The Davidson squad left here today, shortly after noon, and will arrive at West Point Friday afternoon, in time for
a signal drill on Friday after- noon. In the Wofford contest last Saturday, the team failed to work as smoothly
as in former games. However, the hopes of Davidson have been brightened by the news that Dan Goodykoontz, who has
been nursing a bad knee sustained before the season opened, will be able to play. Tom Brohard, fullback, will be
in condition for Saturday’s encounter, also. The Clemson Tiger contest left Brohard with an injured leg, and he did not
appear in uniform for the Wofford game. “Borneo” Baker, last year’s captain and tackle, also kept out of the Wofford
game, in order tobe in good condition for the Army clash. Extensive arrangements are being made for the entertainment of
the Red and Black Machine after its battle with the Soldiers. The members of the team will be guests of
honor at a dinner given by Dr. A. B. Reese, who graduated from Davidson in 1917. Dr. Reese, whose home
was formerly in Charlotte, is one of the leaders in the medical world of New York. Captain W. A. Dumas,
class of 1915, has also been planning to receive and entertain the Wildcats at West Point. As the team takes
the field against the Cadets, the Davidson student body will be following the game over the Play-O-Graph in the local
gymnasium. Ernest Milton, Davidson’s Alumni Secretary, has completed arrangements for the play-by-play report to come direct to the gym. The
starting time will be announced in chapel.

Squadron Leader A. H. Orlebar, of the British Schneider Cup Team, may now claim the distinction of having gone faster
than anyone else in the world. His official record is 357.7 miles per hour, but he is said to have
previously gone 368 mph in an unofficial test flight.

Amateur Actors to Present Short Play

The Red and Black Masquers will present, as a part of the benefit given in connection with the festivities of
the Citadel game weekend, a one-act play, “Copy,” dealing with the life of newspaper men. Although the cast has not
been selected, the choice of those in charge will probably follow present members of the club who are ready to
be called on: J. Z. Pressly, D. Miller, J. S. Meacham, J. B. Black, W. Wharton, N. B. Dicks, H.
M. Moffett, and W. E. McAlpine. From the magnificent start the stage club made last year, it hopes to develop
rapidly into a leading organization on campus. The club expects to furnish settings and scenery to be used on the
stage. A good nucleus of men from last year and the addition of newcomers will round out a good organization
to follow a regular schedule, including several trips and a goodly number of performances here. Professor Ervin has kindly consented
to direct and supervise the work of the club.

Radio Club Begins Year With Enthusiastic Plans

Davidson's Radio Club begins its second year with quite a bit of pep and enthusiasm. The Club, as well as
the students, is looking for a very eventful and successful year. The Club is now composed of ten members. Membership
is given only to those who show exceptional skill and interest in the field of radio. E. S. Bettis is
president, while the office of secretary and treasurer is held by D. J. Caldwell. The Club meets each Monday night
at 7:30 in their studio and experimental laboratory on the second floor of the old Armory. Their programs consist of
the latest developments in radio or an open forum of radio problems. Professor Fulcher is their adviser, representing the faculty.
Twice each week, on Wednesday and Friday nights, the Radio Club sponsors a class in radio at 8:30. This class
is open to everyone and has proven beneficial and interesting to those attending. The club is now interested in relaying
“play-by-play” movements of all important games staged off the campus for students who are unable to attend them. This “relay
process” is done in a very unique way. Along the sidelines, someone relays the different movements to the telegraph operator
by means of an army telephone. The operator then wirelesses the code, which is picked up at the club's studio.
The report is then broadcasted through the club's megaphone. The Club's first game—Davidson-Wofford—was quite successful. However, a glaring error on
their part was due to the telegraph truck being late in reaching the game. It was then found that the
trip had caused certain disconnections which could not be fixed properly in such a short time. In consequence, the telegraph
car was not working correctly until (Continued on page 8).

The Rev. Samuel Glasgow, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Knoxville, Tenn., will conduct the fall Y. M.
C. A. evangelistic services at Davidson, October 28 through 30. Dr. Glasgow, who is a brother of Tom Glasgow of
Charlotte, has achieved note as an author as well as a worker with young men.

Continuous Round of Entertainment Is Planned For First Campus-Wide House Party Weekend of Oct. 19

The Citadel Girls Will See Student Body Social Life Come to Fore

STUDENT BODY AFFAIR

Dramatic Entertainment to be Followed by Refreshments in New Chambers

On October 19-20, Davidson will give vent to the social feeling of the student body in what is expected to
be the most colorful weekend of the year. This is the Citadel Weekend Party, which the entire student body must
contribute to in order to show outsiders that social life on the Davidson campus is not dead, but is a
coming thing. The Citadel Weekend Party points to success in every way. That one thing which adds life to every
party will be much in evidence—action. There will be something to do every minute. On Saturday afternoon, the Davidson-Citadel game
will keep the interest of everyone at a high pitch. This is closely followed at 7:30 by an entertainment of
high caliber, very probably the Queens College Dramatic Club with thirty or more of its most beautiful members to add
to the color of the day. The crack Citadel band will present efforts to keep one’s blood stirred whenever the
artists cease. This splendid entertainment will be followed by a general “get-together” in Chambers, where refreshments will be served in
the new banquet hall. Tickets will be on sale for the show, with anyone bringing a girl having the advantage
of reduced prices. When the strain of the day has passed, there will be many ready to rest their limbs
before the big log fire in the attractive Social Center room in Eu Hall. This hall will be fitted out
especially for the weekend and made general headquarters during the few minutes when nothing else will be going on. The
funds raised from the entertainment will be used to buy a piano for the Social Center room. It is every
man’s duty to himself, to his girl, and to his school, to invite a girl up for the weekend. Advanced
arrangements will be made for lodging. Give your name to the president of your class, the freshmen turning theirs in
to Heath Whittle, and your reservation will be cared for.

SHALL WE FLY?

Flying has become so very popular among collegiates that a new negative has been added to the list of “thou
shalt nots” at Wellesley College. The following statement has been posted in the dean’s office: “No student while under the
jurisdiction of the college may ride in an aeroplane unless permission has been granted from the dean and a written
consent of her parents has been secured.”

Fraternity Council Elects New Leader

At a call meeting of the Honorary Fraternity Council last week, Ernest McCall was selected president and John B. Knox,
secretary. Both officers are from the senior class. A committee consisting of Bill McGuire, Sam Coker, and Allan Frew was
appointed to work out a schedule by which various meetings of the Honorary Fraternities will be held. The committee is
now working on this schedule and plans, as near as possible, to follow that of last year. As yet, bid
day has not been set, but the first date will probably be early in November and the second sometime during
the spring. It is the hope of the Council to make honorary fraternities even more profitable to the students this
year than they have been formerly.
