THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 10, 1929

Collegiate Comment

On This and That

Music
By Horace W. Erwin

The man that hath no music in himself
Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,
Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils.
—Merchant of Venice. Act V. Sc. 1

Music is one of the most ancient of the arts. Indication of this comes to us by Assyrian and Egyptian
bas-reliefs and wall paintings which have been exhumed with the remains of the ancient cities, and upon which are numerous
musical representations. The Assyrians were a bellicose people, and instruments of percussion were put to frequent use in their warfare.
The wind instrument was present with them in the form of a military trumpet. The Egyptians before 3000 B.C. had
a science of music, which they associated to some extent with religion and astronomy. It was they from whom the
Greeks got their music. Here the art was given a very important place in the educational system; the study of
music was made requisite in schools. Later on, and further west, music became an important part of the rites of
the early church, which it has continued to do to the present day. But one note could be played or
sung at a time, for there was no knowledge of harmony. Polyphony had not yet been introduced.

Through the ages music evolved with civilization. With the passing of time its use was not confined to the church
but was secularized and brought down to the masses. And hereupon music became inspirited with the life of the people.
The discovery of harmonizing voices and musical combinations developed, and polyphonic arrangements supplanted the monotonistic chant of the medieval church.

Even today music is not at a standstill, but is in a stage of development. Who can say what, if
anything, will replace the modern symphony orchestra in years to come? Certain it is that musical form will change, and
new schools will be introduced. However harsh and discordant productions of the ultra-modern school may seem to us now, our
descendants may find them pleasing to the ear. To illustrate this concretely, let us refer to Haydn’s Oratorio “Creation,” composed
in the seventeenth century. The opening of this work depicts the void and formless earth before creation by dissonant chords.
It was very jarring to the ears of the concert-goers of Haydn’s day. But now in the twentieth century we
consider that a very mild and conservative representation of chaos.

And so music is passing through an experimental stage of a great metamorphosis. What, then, can be in the intrinsic
makeup of such an art to so attract men and command their constant interest? For one thing, music has beauty.
Deeper yet, it portrays emotion. The works of the romanticists of the nineteenth century are brimming with joy, horror, love,
hate, rage, compassion. But more than that, music is personal. Anyone can carry a melody in his head. We see
a boy down the street whistling to himself, a cook in the kitchen humming, a musician alone with his instrument
playing. Music appeals to the individual. The fact that it is enjoyed so much even when one is alone and
that it “sticks” accounts much for its catholicity. One musically inclined does not always require the presence of an orchestra
or an instrument. He can play the melody in his own mind.

The music in my heart I bore
Long after it was heard no more.

Because of this, the art becomes one of the finer things of life, and something of the soul, as Dr.
Lingle mentioned in chapel one morning. If, then, music is so universally popular and is so satisfying, the need for
appreciation of it ought to be great. Good music should be appreciated as much as good literature. If it is
not, it is because people of cultivable tastes have not been introduced into its grandeur. And superficial inquiry into music
yields but superficial results.

HOW TO LIVE LONGER

If you want to prolong your life, be a college professor. If you want to increase the chances of long
life, be a college professor in a small, quiet community. And the earlier in life you go about it, the
better chances are. These are the conclusions of researchers of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teachers, as contained
in the annual report. The researchers ought to know—they have the data, compiled while the Foundation has been paying out
more than seventeen million dollars in pensions and retiring allowances, during twenty-three years. Mainly, the conclusions came from the study
of 358 retiring allowance beneficiaries.

The theory is that college professors live placid lives, made still more placid by residence in small, quiet communities. If
they possess intellectual superiority, it is evidenced at an early age and is associated with physical superiority. So they are
able to command their reactions to events and conditions that would be excitations to other persons, less composed by reason
of their exposure to the hurly-burly of life. Moreover, the college professor is advantaged by the pedagogical attitude. As his
years mount, more and more he gains in regard for his own authority in his special field, and that, too,
makes for composure and placidity. His only disadvantage lies in a tendency—which he may counteract—to extend pedagogical finality to his
attitude toward life in general. Control, however, may go with placidity; and philosophical reaction to all the issues of society
may be made a factor in his psychosis, with the consequent growth of placidity, and hence prolongation of life.

It is this placidity, this philosophical outlook, perhaps, that makes professors more lovable as their years increase and their students
return in spirit to commune with them. And this researcher’s notation on the fruits of placidity might be worth contemplation
by those of us who did not adopt the professional calling.
—Exchange.OMEGA GETS TWO MORE PLEDGES

Since Bid Day, October 1, two freshmen have accepted bids extended to them by Alpha Omega social fraternity. They are:
R. W. Gwyn and W. B. Gwyn, of North Wilkesboro, N. C. Through an error of the printer, the name
of D. M. Bernard, of Jacksonville, Fla., pledged to Kappa Alpha, was omitted from the last edition of the Davidsonian.

On the other hand, one probing the depths of good music will be abundantly recompensed. A graduate of a classical
college with no appreciation of the fineness of music has not completed his education. If he can sit enjoyably through
a Shakespearean tragedy or comedy but cannot hold his patience at a musicale, his appreciation of art has not been
fully developed. One might well deplore the comparatively scanty recognition given to an art so pleasure-yielding as music.

The course in History and Appreciation of Music, taught by Prof. Cullum, will prove invaluable to willing students. Its aim
is to serve the students who feel the need of a cultural understanding of music, and the ability to listen
intelligently to the work of the masters. Such organizations as the Glee Club, the Band, and the Symphony Orchestra are
excellent stimulants to musical activity, and the new honorary musical fraternity, Mu Beta Psi, ought to awaken keen interest in
musical enterprises.

Mu Beta Psi has further plans of setting aside a room in which will be placed a piano and an
orthophonic victrola having solo and symphonic recordings. These will be accessible to not only members of the fraternity, for Mu
Beta Psi has generously extended the room’s use to all students of musical likings. Recitals and concerts will be sponsored
also. With so much of music on the campus, there will be ample opportunity for anyone to cultivate whatever inclination
toward good music he may have and to develop an appreciable understanding of it.

Current Comment By John L. Brown

There seems to be no danger of New York losing her supremacy in high buildings. Of the 377 buildings in
the United States over 20 stories high, 188 are in New York. For 16 years the Woolworth building has held
its title of highest building in the world, but soon the Chrysler building will tower above it. This new building
will be 809 feet high, as compared with Woolworth’s 792, and will rise 68 stories above the sidewalks of New
York. But the Chrysler building will not hold its title for long, for the Bank of Manhattan building will soon
be erected to the height of 836 feet, thus giving it the title of loftiest building in the world.

Here’s the last word in Scotchmen. U. S. Representative Somers, of New York, recently received a letter from one of
his supporters asking him to have a bill passed for the use of half pennies. Cakes sold 2 for 5c,
or 3 1/2c each, he said, so he wanted half pennies so he can buy them for 2 1/2c each.

The annual fire loss of the United States amounts to approximately $90,000,000 due to the carelessness of cigarette smokers. Scientists
have consequently been making researches to find a self-extinguishing cigarette. They have now devised a cigarette with a one-inch cork
tip treated so as to be fireproof. When thrown away it extinguishes itself so quickly that the fire hazard is
reduced 90 percent. If smokers would use these cigarettes and increase their carefulness 10 percent, the fire hazard would be
reduced to practically zero.

Another proof of electricity in a cat’s fur was shown last week at Grand Rapids, Mich. A stray cat was
put in with the dogs at the city dog pound to receive the death sentence, and after the manner of
cats arched its back and ruffled its fur. When the lethal gas was turned on, there was an explosion caused
by electric sparks.

We may soon have radios by General Motors, along with its various makes of automobiles, refrigerators, etc. The new Cadillacs
have an aerial in their bodies, and for $150 extra are equipped with a Delco-Remy receiving set.

The National City Bank of New York recently became the biggest in the world, nosing out London’s Midland Bank, Ltd.,
by a bare 83 million dollars. Its merger with the Corn Exchange Bank and Trust Co. swelled its resources to
$2,386,066,401.

Feature Page

Beginning with this issue, page seven will be known as the feature page of The Davidsonian. In its columns will
appear articles on varied subjects, original student contributions, interesting facts about the colleges of the land, poetry, sport comment, drama,
art, and a portion of humor. In short, it is the intention of the staff to make this page one
of the most interesting pages of the whole paper. Any member of the student body is invited to contribute his
ideas, and it is hoped that the feature page will come to be considered the students’ own.

Policeman: “What's the matter, did you lose something?”
Drunk: “Sure, lost a quarter.”
Policeman: “Where did you lose it?”
Drunk: “Back there someplace.”
Policeman: “Then why are you looking under this street light?”
Drunk: “Cause the light’s better here.”

Miss Jones: “What do you think of Shakespeare's plays?”
Freshman Sweatt: “What team does he play on?”

TO FLAVOR A MOMENT OR MARK A THOUGHT—HAVE A CAMEL

Let Camels accent your little intervals between this and that. Thoughts requiring pleasant punctuation, moods asking for emphasis, things accomplished
which merit a bit of jubilee—flavor them with pleasure. Each time your day’s activity takes a twist or a turn,
have a Camel! Couple these with Camels and Camel brings you an extra measure of pleasure... simply because it is
a better cigarette. The choicest tobaccos grown are blended with expert care into a mellow-mild smoke, cool and refreshing, which
never tires your taste nor leaves an unpleasant after-taste.

© 1929, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
