Page Six ix THE DAVIDSONIAN

Blue Ridge Program: For This Year Offers Much

Few Student Conferences of the past have been in a position to announce such speakers as Fletcher Brockman, Christian World
statesman, T. Z. Koo, Interpreter of the Orient to the West and inimitable in his presentation of the heart of
the Christian message, and Dr. Henry Crane, perhaps the most acceptable speaker today to students of the eastern colleges and
universities. Two speakers of this caliber will be announced later.

The Guidance Motif Dominant

Certain major life adjustments confront students during their four years in college. They must decide what they are going to
do about vocation, girls, religion, the church, education, etc., which proves a baffling experience. Most are puzzled by the difficulties
involved. Many make their choices blindly and disastrously. Decision is often forced without adequate consideration of all the facts, either
because they are not available or for lack of time. A need voiced by students everywhere is for sympathetic and
able guidance in these areas.

What student would not welcome the opportunity to spend a period in intimate daily contact with a group of outstanding
older Christian men skilled in counseling? That is just what Blue Ridge is prepared to do this coming summer. With
adequate provision for personal conference, forum and group discussion, inspiring presentations and ample time for quiet meditation, in the seclusion
of the mountains, an almost unparalleled opportunity is made available. The best skilled leadership to be found is being drawn
from colleges and universities both North and South. For the vocational counseling service, there will be a group of counselors
selected from Southern colleges, who will give their whole thought and time to the personal needs of individual students. This
part of the program is being planned and carried through by a group of college deans under the Chairmanship of
President H. W. Chase, of the University of North Carolina. Dean Francis F. Bradshaw has been secured as expert leader
of this group in the field of counseling, and associated with him will be Mr. Harry Bone, of Columbia University
and Union Seminary on campus life adjustments, and Dr. English Bagby, well-known expert in the psychology of personality. These three
leaders with the group of twenty-five choice counselors selected from the more important institutions in the South will provide a
service quite unique in the quality of its personnel and the service to be rendered.

High Grade Bible Study

Rare, indeed, will be the privileges of those who attended the conference this year in their opportunity to experience such
interpretations of the Bible as will be provided under the leadership of Dr. Bruce Curry, of New York, Dr. William
J. Hutchins, of Berea College, Mr. Harry Bone of the National Council of Y. M. C. A.’s, Dr. J. M.
Culbreath, of the Methodist Board of Education, and Dr. H. M. LeSourd, of Duke University. This has been arranged in
answer to the strongly expressed desire on the part of students for the opportunity to gain an inspiring acquaintance with
the Bible.

Interest and Technique Groups

Running through the Conference will be a number of smaller interest groups delving into such questions as students themselves may
choose for discussion in relation to the application of Christian Principles to problems on the campus and in the community.
The latter half of the conference will be devoted in these same groups to the discussion of the kind of
programs that can actually be carried out through the Christian back in the colleges. Such leaders as Harry Bone, Dr.
R. E. Baber, Dr. W. W. Alexander, Mr. Harry Comer, Dr. William J. Hutchins and others of like caliber will
be the resource men for these groups.

Association Recreation

This phase of the Conference will be in charge of competent athletic directors who will help organize the sports, tennis,
basketball, swimming, rowing, track, hiking, etc. The afternoons will be completely devoted to these activities or to such recreation as
the delegates themselves may choose. Tournaments will be arranged, in which the delegations with sufficient number can participate.

Sings

One of the most pleasurable features of the Conference comes each evening after supper when at the “lobby sing” students
share each other's college songs and join together in both popular songs and old favorites. It is in an informal
expression of this nature that fellowship is enriched and a warmth of friendship develops between men from the many different
campuses represented. These are some of the values that will go to make the annual Student Conference at Blue Ridge
a memorable event in the lives of those discriminating students who choose to invest two weeks of the next vacation
period in one of the most inspiring and altogether satisfying experiences that comes in a lifetime.

Jubilant Freshmen Discard Class Caps

By a special edict of the Court of Controls, the freshmen have been allowed to discard their caps. The announcement
was made in chapel Saturday morning. Immediately, the crowd of excited freshmen rushed out on the campus and walked about
without the little emblems of fresh-hood for the first time since their advent to the college last September. This is
the earliest any class in the last few years has been allowed to take their caps off, most classes having
to wear their caps until two weeks before the close of the college year.

OVENS SPEAKS ON RETAIL BUSINESS

Speaking on the possibilities of retail business as a life calling, David Ovens, general manager of Ivey’s Department Store of
Charlotte, declares that business is in a stage of momentous transition from private ownership to trusts controlled by boards and
not by individuals. Mr. Ovens, who the juniors will recall as the main speaker of their freshman banquet, stated that
the law of the survival of the fittest holds good in business life. Business success is dependent on the man’s
applicable knowledge, code of ethics, and driving power. The talk was interspersed with rich humor throughout. One of Mr. Ovens’
most forceful statements was that the business field is not overcrowded. He gave example after example of businesses which could
not be carried on account of a lack of efficient men to head them.

REIDSVILLE MAN (Continued from page 1)

Forwarding and management of the team, proved to be the most valuable man on the five. Pritchett has also been
especially active in the forensic activities of the college. From an alternate on the freshman intercollegiate debating team, he rose
to first place among twenty-five men trying out for varsity places his sophomore year. He was again selected this year
to participate in two varsity debates. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, national forensic fraternity, and of the
Ministerial Band. He has been an active worker in Y. M. C. A. fields. Thad Brock and Walter Fraley of
the rising junior class, vice-presidents-elect of the student body, are both from Barium Springs. Each has made their varsity letters,
Fraley in football and Brock in both wrestling and football. The nominations for these offices were made by a special
committee appointed by the Student Council. Nominations were also called for from the floor. Contrary to previous custom, the nominations
were made and posted a day before the elections were run off.

Wildcats Ready For Spring Track Meet

Date set for the football game, the first Friday or Saturday, depending on the spring track meet will be held.
The meet will be staged primarily for the purpose of practice and of improving the conditions of the entries. Charlotte
High will be represented and should offer some competition for the Wildcats.Men are rounding into condition rapidly. The first outdoor
meet is scheduled for March 20th with the University of Virginia.

Cafeterias are catering to you
CHARLOTTE
ASHEVILLE
KNOXVILLE
RALEIGH
ATLANTA

Pritchett is taking advantage of the late...

DEPUTATIONS GO TO CHARLOTTE

The Y. M. C. A. has this past week sent out two deputations and conducted a Come Clean Campaign in
the Charlotte public schools. Saturday morning six men left Davidson for Banner Elk, N. C., visiting McRae Institute where they
made several talks. This school is under the supervision of L. K. Pritchett of the class of ’28. The men
making the trip were R. O. Flinn, W. E. Hill, B. F. Brown, J. D. McCall, G. H. Green, and
M. C. McQueen. They returned to the campus Monday night. W. H. Bailey went last Sunday to Charlotte and spoke
to the Hi-Y Club and to members of the Y. M. C. A.

Much Improvement Shown by Athletes

According to Capt. N. G. Pritchett, the winner of the Body Building contest will be announced Friday night at the
Athletic meeting to be held at Shearer Hall and a loving cup will be presented to him. It is interesting
to note that six men showed an improvement of over six inches and of these six, four of them exceeded
seven inches. Although all the men have not been measured, the average of those measured up to date is 5
5/8 inches. This exceeds, by far, all expectations of Capt. Pritchett. There are only four men who did not show
an improvement of at least four inches. All of the men who showed the largest amount of improvement had taken,
besides the daily prescribed exercises, additional exercises under their own direction using the apparatus obtainable in the gym.

Former Davidson Man Big League Sensation

Pat Crawford, Baseball Star, Making Good on Giants

The young sensation of the Giants, Pat Crawford, first played baseball at Davidson College in 1920. Crawford became captain and
star of the Davidson team before his graduation in 1923. While at Davidson, Crawford was not only a star in
baseball but was one of the best basketball players ever to come to Davidson. He was leading scorer for the
Wildcats although he played at guard. Although he never made the varsity, he was awarded a service letter in football
for his faithful and conscientious attendance to all the practices. Crawford, besides his athletic achievements, was very prominent, being president
of the Y. M. C. A. his last year at Davidson and connected with many campus organizations. While at Davidson,
Crawford played in three different positions: right field, center field, and first base. Since playing professional baseball, Crawford has played
at first and third base. During his first year in college, Pat fielded perfectly and held a batting average of
.282, which was next to the leading hitter at Davidson that year. For the other three years of his career,
his fielding average was .990, and he improved rapidly his batting average. After his graduation, he coached for a while,
and then played baseball in the Sally League, then in the American Association with Toledo, and is now training with
the New York Giants. Crawford has been favorably commented on by none other than John McGraw himself.

Milton To Address Alumni Association

The Davidson Alumni located at Richmond, Baltimore, New York, and Boston are being addressed this week by Ernest Milton, the
executive secretary of the General Alumni Association of Davidson College. Over 250 Davidson men are located in or near these
cities and all have been invited to the dinner-meetings. The alumni located in New Jersey, Connecticut, and Rhode Island have
also been invited to the meetings nearest them. Alumni associations are already located in Richmond, Baltimore, and New York. A
meeting of the Philadelphia Alumni was held last year but no association was established. The Davidson men of Massachusetts are
holding their first meeting, and because so many of them are only temporarily located in the state, no attempts will
be made to establish a permanent organization. Dr. J. W. McConnell left Tuesday to attend the New York meeting, having
received a special invitation from that body. This meeting was held March 13th, which is the Founder’s Day for Davidson
College.

PROSPECTS OF TRACK ARE NOW PROMISING

Strong in High Jump and Vault — Weak in Dashes and Hurdles

It is yet early in the season to estimate the strength of the track team, but the prospects are that
Captain Pritchett will develop a good team in his first season’s work with the Wildcat trackmen. Dumas and Gardner in
the high jump, and Brock, Bailey, and Smith in the pole vault are doing well. Currie and Whittle in the
sprints, Jennings in the 220-yard dash, Leftwich and Regen in the shot-put and discus, are all going strong and promise
to be point winners. It is hoped that a good distance team can be picked from Neal, Goodwin, Beaver. Fresh
track candidates are hard at work each afternoon. As yet the prospects for a strong team are dark, as they
are especially weak in the dashes, pole vault, high jump, and hurdles, the other positions being in fair shape. Wilkinson,
McAlpine, and K. Curtis, millionaire Philadelphia newspaper and magazine publisher, has presented a ‘Christmas present’ of $500,000 to Temple, it
was announced at the annual Christmas party of the Temple Faculty Club. The sum donated represents the largest individual sum
ever given to Temple, thus giving Mr. Curtis the title of largest single contributor to this institution for the third
time. In 1921, Mr. Curtis presented $25,000 toward the erection of Conwell Hall, while in 1926 Mr. Curtis gave $100,000
in the Russell I. Conwell Fund Campaign, heading the list of subscribers in both these drives. Mr. Curtis’ gift, according
to President Beury, will be used to start the erection of the third or skyscraper unit of the Temple building
project at Broad Street and Montgomery Avenue, as soon as plans are drawn.

— Temple University (CNA) — Cyrus H. Curtis

“This tonic is no good,” said the ailing patient, “all the directions it gives are for adults, and I never
had that.” — Ex.

“What’s the difference between kissing your sister and your girl?” “Oh, several minutes.” — Teco Echo.

Pitiful Cases — Two Northwest Mounted Policemen in a one-horse town.

Unpopular Songs — “His Sweetheart’s Face Is Wrinkled But He Can Read Between the Lines.”

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers
BARNETT and COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday
Douglas Fairbanks
“IRON MASK”
Wednesday
“BLUE SKIES”
Thursday
Phyllis Haver and Don Alverdo
“The Battle of the Sexes”
Friday
Olive Borden
“Sinners of Love”
Saturday
“OVERLAND TELEGRAPH”

STUDENTS’ STORE

MOORESVILLE DE LUXE ICE CREAM at CONES CUPS ICE CREAM CO.

CLOTHES, You Miss

TODAY AND TOMORROW

FIFTH AVENUE

JACKECN Bovis

ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND.

THE CURRENT STYLES IN HATS, SHOES AND HABERDASHERY FOR LOUNGE, SPORTS AND CAMPUS USAGE WILL BE EXHIBITED IN YOUR TOWN
ON DATE GIVEN BELOW.

At Scofield’s

Joseph S. Branch, Rep.

E. NEW YORK

EVARD, CHICAGO

Samples of the leather and vellum invitation programs for Commencement are on display at the Student’s Store. Leave your order
here before March 23rd, when the order for these programs will be sent in.

The Students’ Store
IT’S YOURS, WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?

March 14, 1929.
