"TRUST that man in nothing who has not a conscience in everything." —L. Sterne.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

EASTER MONDAY GAME AT SALISBURY
WILDCATS vs. CAROLINA

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., MARCH 27, 1929 No. 23

Charles Pratt Elected To Editorship of Annual For 1930 Publication
Prominent Junior Elected in Final Balloting Over McGavock

ACTIVE IN LITERARY WORK
Dubose and Anderson Eliminated in Preliminary Elections Held Monday and Tuesday—Staff Not Selected

Quips and Cranks, yearbook for the student body, will be edited next year by Charles M. Pratt, of Louisville, Ky. Pratt was elected to the office of editor by his classmates after three mornings of spirited balloting. On the final ballot cast Tuesday, Pratt led W. G. McGavock, of Franklin, Tenn., by a margin sufficient for election. Four men were nominated by the present staff of Quips and Cranks for the position of editor. These were: C. H. Dubose, D. P. Anderson, W. G. McGavock, and Pratt. All have worked faithfully in the duties of the annual staff during the past two years. The first ballot found Dubose eliminated. On the second vote, Anderson was dropped, and Pratt and McGavock were left to fight it out.

The new editor is well fitted to carry on the task of issuing a high type of college annual. He has been interested in every phase of literary work on the campus and has become a member of Sigma Upsilon, national literary fraternity. Pratt was nominated for editor of The Davidsonian, having served that publication in the capacity of managing editor. He is also a member of Delta Pi Kappa, journalistic fraternity. Phi Delta Theta is the social fraternity to which Pratt belongs. His staff will be announced after the Easter holidays.

McGavock has served in the capacity of contributing editor on the Quips and Cranks staff for the past year and has been prominent in student affairs generally. He is a member of the track squad. His fraternity is Kappa Alpha. Anderson has been to the forefront in serving student publications, having been on The Davidsonian staff as well as that of the annual. He is a member of Theta Upsilon Omega. Dubose has been connected with numerous student activities including the glee club, The Davidsonian, and many others.

N.C.C. A. to Meet at Greensboro, April 18
N. C. Will Give Luncheon for Delegates—G. C. Is Official Host to News Convention

Members of the publications staffs of Greensboro College and of N. C. College are making plans for the entertainment of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association which will meet here April 18. Greensboro College is the official hostess, but N. C. will give a luncheon in honor of the delegates on Friday, April 19th. Reports from G. C. indicate that there will be the usual round of social functions, including a banquet, luncheon, dinner, theatre parties, tour of the city, and teas. The three business sessions will be held in Odell Memorial Hall on Friday and Saturday, at which time announcement will be made of the winners of the various contests for the year and officers for next year will be elected. Present officers of the association, elected last spring at Duke, are: Walter Spearman, Carolina, president; Katie Gravely, N. C. C. W., first vice-president; Charlie Pratt, Davidson, second vice-president; Alice Dowd, Meredith, secretary; Scott Parker, Guilford, treasurer.—The Carolinian.

Farm Converted to Wild Game Preserve
Dr. W. M. MacConnell has established his farm near Davidson as a game refuge under the State Department of Conservation. Some Mexican quail have already been released and some pheasants will be reared later for stocking. No hunting will be allowed for a number of years. Dr. MacConnell has for some time had quite a varied array of animals on his place in town. With this branching out, many rare specimens will doubtless be introduced into his community to share with others the traditions of Davidson.

How can you be a Republican or a Democrat without joining a party? How can you be a Christian without joining a church?

Vocational Guidance
The Ministry

The following message to Davidson students expecting to enter the ministry was written by the Rev. Mark A. Matthews, D.D., pastor of the largest Presbyterian Church, in point of membership, in the United States, the First Presbyterian Church, Seattle, Washington, especially for publication in The Davidsonian:

To Young Ministers

No young man should call himself into the ministry. Ministers are not self-appointed, nor are they self-starters. No one should ever enter the ministry except in answer to the call—the clear and distinct call—of the Holy Spirit. When men are humanly selected, or when they appoint themselves to become ministers of the Gospel, they are usually misfits or they are the church’s great misfortunes. God’s program for filling the pulpit is found in the Gospel. Christ said, “Pray the Lord of the Harvest to send laborers into the field.” Parents should pray, asking God to call their sons. Young men who feel inclined by the Holy Spirit should pray, asking God to select them for the mighty position of a minister. The minister is supernaturally called, supernaturally endowed, supernaturally commissioned to preach the supernatural Gospel under the terms of the supernatural commission. Those who enter the pulpit under any other conditions are curses; they can never become blessings. The highest position on earth is that of the evangelical pulpit. It is supreme over all other positions. It is the supreme point of elevation in the world. The man who is divinely called and divinely equipped is impregnable and occupies the most commanding, the most useful, and the most influential position on earth. If young men are entering the ministry as an occupation or a profession in order that they may have this world’s earthly emoluments, they are unworthy of such a position. If they, in answer to the call of Jesus Christ and under the leadership of the Holy Spirit, become ministers, they should enter the fields of labor in absolute confidence and demonstrate to the world the greatest courage and the most fearless zeal that has ever been manifested. The minister is not amenable to anybody in the world. He is amenable only to the dictation of the Holy Ghost. Pray the Lord of the Harvest to call such men. Every young minister ought to feel the compelling force of the spirit which made Paul say, “Woe unto me if I preach not the Gospel.” If young men feel that same spirit, they should enter the pulpit knowing that there is no power in Hell or on earth that can stop them or defeat them. I urge young men to wait for the call of the Holy Ghost.

Orators To Close Junior Speaking

With the staging in Shearer Hall tonight at 8:30 of the Junior Oratorical Contest, the 1929 Junior Speaking festivities will be brought to a close. What was originally the main feature of the Junior Speaking week, and the one from which the celebration derived its name, had to be postponed this year until the following week because of the unusual number of attractions booked. Four members of the Junior Class have entered this year’s contest which is to be the climax of an eventful week. They are R. M. Christian, T. R. Nunan, E. E. Marsh, and F. D. Miller. Each of these men will speak for ten minutes on any subject which he desires to select. A committee of judges will probably be appointed from among the members of the faculty which will decide the winner of the contest.

O. D. K. Tap Day

According to a recent announcement, O. D. K. bids will be extended at the regular “tap day” exercises about the middle of April. Initiation will probably be held sometime during the same week in which “Tap Day” is observed. The speaker for this occasion has not been definitely decided upon as yet, although arrangements for one are being made at present. The men who receive invitations to membership will be members of the present Junior and Senior classes who have proved to be outstanding in one or more phases of campus activities.

Davidson Professors Attend Conference
Professor Watts Honored With Association Office in French Department

The Modern Language Department of the North Carolina Education Association held a general session for the election of officers and other business at Raleigh last weekend. An interesting talk was made by Prof. K. B. DeSanze, director of Foreign Languages of the Cleveland Public Schools, which was heard with much interest by all the professors of foreign languages. On Friday afternoon, the French, Spanish, and German Departments met separately for various discussions and addresses. Professor Watts, of the French Department at Davidson, was elected president of the French Department of the Association for the coming year. Professor Moore was also present at the meeting. As representatives of the Davidson Spanish Department, Professors Fleagle, Blythe, and Goldiere attended the meeting of the Spanish Department of the Education Association on Friday afternoon. The program for this department consisted of a number of talks made by the various teachers and professors present at the convention. “The Yale ‘Tema’ System of Teaching Spanish” was the subject of a talk made by Professor Goldiere. At the meeting of the German Department, Davidson was also represented, Professors Gorr and Vowles being present. The fourth talk of the meeting was made by Professor Gorr, whose subject was “Some Bits of Original Verse.” Professor L. B. Henderson was present at the Education Association meeting in the interest of the Education Department.

Davidson GLEE CLUB MAKES FIRST SPRING TOUR
Musicians Visit Lincolnton, Shelby and Spartanburg—Other Trips Planned for Rest of Season

The Glee Club started Monday night, March 18th, its first spring tour, during which towns in North and South Carolina were visited. Leaving here Friday afternoon, the Club traveled in its special car to Lincolnton, where it rendered an impressive concert that night. Saturday, the Club went to Spartanburg, where, as in Lincolnton, the members of the Club were entertained in private homes. After taking in dinner Saturday evening at Converse College, the Club gave its second concert in the chapel. The Sunday night service at the First Presbyterian Church of Spartanburg was almost entirely given over to the Glee Club and was featured by instrumental numbers, solos, and numbers by the quartet and Club. On Monday, the Glee Club arrived in Shelby in time to take lunch at the High School Cafeteria and the last concert on the trip was given in the Shelby High School Auditorium. Some thirty-two men were taken on the trip this time, the organization having been slightly enlarged since its last trip. The Jazz Orchestra, of course, accompanied the Club on its tour. The quartet was re-organized for this trip and consisted of the following: First Tenor, J. C. Bradley; Second Tenor, W. E. Phifer, Jr.; Baritone, E. Z. Dubose; Bass, R. R. Kane. In all probability, the Club will make several other short tours before the close of school, as this first tour of the spring was not as long as usual.

Davidson Debaters Win Victory Over University Of Ala.Miri Marsh Down Opponents by 3-0 Score

DEBATE HELD IN CONCORD

Freshman Oratorical Contest and Debate Tryouts to be Held Soon

March 19th, a team composed of Ellis Marsh, University of Alabama, defeated a team from Concord by a score of 3 to 0. The event took place on Tuesday. The Davidson speakers, David Pritchett, and Carl Ellis, had the negative side of the question, "Resolved: That the Number of Jurists Should be Increased or Substituted for Trial by Jury." They won by an overwhelming score.

The Freshmen debate will be held between Carolina, Wake Forest, and Davidson. The subject to be debated is, "Resolved: That the Jury System Should be Abolished in Civil Cases." The members on the affirmative side of the Davidson team will go either to Chapel Hill or to Wake Forest, while the negative side will remain at Davidson to compete with a team from one of the other two schools. Tryouts for the Freshmen debating team will be held on April 15, and four men will be selected by a faculty committee for this purpose. The time limit will be 5 minutes.

On April 20, the Freshmen Oratorical contest will be held here. Only original subjects will be used, and there will be a time limit of 8 minutes. A local contest will be held during the first two weeks of April, and the winner will go to Guilford on April 19 to compete with a man from that school chosen in a similar manner. This is a statewide affair held among the colleges of North Carolina.

Dumas Discovers Popularity of Cham

Students Vote Away Right of Further Exaggerated Criticism of Literary Magazine

Revilings, slanderings, cursings, vilifications, vituperations, and all else expressive of the mal-treated and ill-considered publication, until recently, will be entirely incongruous in the future, for righteousness has triumphed and the opposition to anything savoring of what was termed "literary" has been pacified. It all came about when Lawrence Dumas, head of the Board of Publications, attempted to sound out student sentiment last Wednesday morning as to whether it was the will of the student body to prolong the life of The Chameleon, or to have it combined with The Davidsonian as a supplement, issued occasionally, or to abolish it altogether. The student opinion was so sound that the suggestion to abolish it seemed all right to a certain degree. Robert Covington arose first in defense of any movement to abolish the magazine. He pointed out various features about the publication which seemed to indicate that it really wasn't such a bad old thing after all. Frank Hall, poet laureate, was of Mr. Covington’s opinion, but more so. He, in a forceful manner, called the attention of the eager listeners to the fact that college magazines all over the Southland stood back in awe at the name of The Chameleon. His point was good, for he stirred Senior poet Richard O. Flinn to his feet, who, by his nonchalant thrusts, struck at the ability of both the contributors to the publication and the student body, when he said that it was his opinion that most of the students didn't know whether the contents of the magazine were good or not, and if the writers thought it good, they should be allowed to print it. His speech was popular; he had won his hearers; and he put a swift motion before the house that the magazine be continued status quo. Mr. Dumas, assuming the student body presidency temporarily, disregarded the motion and attempted to call for a show of hands of those not in favor of continuance, but his parliamentary procedure was challenged, and he had to accept the motion made by Mr. Flinn. There were many seconds.

Engineering Subject of Talk by W. S. Lee

Duke Power Company Representative Speaks to Interested Group

Mr. W. S. Lee, head engineer for the Duke Power Company, gave a lecture on engineering, Wednesday evening, March 20, at the "Y" rooms. Mr. Lee has attained prominence as an executive as well as an engineer, and was an able man to give a talk. Engineering, he says, is doing a common thing in an uncommon way. The commonest of common sense is necessary in this phase of life’s work. In his talk, Mr. Lee illustrated all the points which he discussed by actual experiences. For instance, in illustrating the conditions under which engineering must be carried on, he talked of the recent building of a new Duke Power dam in Canada during freezing weather. The situation had to be met, and it took more than higher college mathematics to meet it. The engineers had to study the environment of the situation and use it to a good advantage. Mr. Lee stated that the simplest thing to do in the field of engineering work is to always use the formula which one has to work with and what he knows. The study of Physics teaches one to meet conditions which arise. The engineer is helped by these studies, but he must be able to meet nature and its difficulties and overcome them. 

In the second part of his talk, Mr. Lee discussed the value of an engineer as an executive. An executive must know the strength of the men whom he has working under him, not overwork or underwork them.

Senior Class Elections Begin With Selection Of McGuire For President

Whittle, Jott, Christian, Erckman, and McGavock Are Other Men Nominated

McGUIRE PROMINENT MAN

Four Men Eliminated in First Ballot—McGuire Defeats Whittle in Final Ballot

W. B. McGuire, Franklin, N. C., was elected president of the Senior Class for next year on the second ballot cast by the class last Saturday. A. H. Whittle, Atlanta, ran with McGuire on the last ballot but was defeated.

The following men were nominated by the class to run for president: W. B. McGuire, A. H. Whittle, F. W. Johnston, R. M. Christian, R. B. Erckman, and W. G. McGavock. The latter four were eliminated on the first ballot cast Friday, while McGuire won over Whittle in the ballot cast Saturday.

McGuire has had a rather sensational rise in the ranks of his class and college. His rise has been in the literary work of the class, and he is quite capable of performing the duties of senior president. He is a member of the International Relations Club, secretary of the Forensic Council, Assistant Editor of the "Wildcat Handbook," Contributing Editor of the Quips and Cranks, and Assistant Business Manager of The Davidsonian. He has been secretary and treasurer of his class during the past year and will lead on to his higher office knowing the exact basis upon which he has to work. He was appointed alternate to the varsity debaters during his sophomore year and rose to varsity debater this past year, when he defeated, with his teammate Zeb Long, Wake Forest College and lost to North Carolina State. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Juniors Sponsor Varied Events During Week-End

Picture Show and Minstrel Among Entertainments Presented by the Class of 1930

Sponsoring a number of varied events and activities, the Juniors held their Junior Week-end beginning last Friday and lasting through Sunday. The outstanding entertainments put on by the class were the picture show Saturday afternoon and the minstrel presented that evening. A number of other events marked the week-end. The first of these was a baseball game between Catawba and Davidson, which was held on Richardson Field, Friday afternoon at 3:00 o'clock. Catawba was victorious by the score of 3 to 2. Another entertainment Friday was in the form of a play "The Taming of the Shrew" presented by the Red and Black Masquers, the college dramatic club. This was a modernization of the old Shakespearean play and was well-attended.

Saturday afternoon, the State High School Track Meet was run off on a muddy track. Charlotte took first place, with a score of 35 and one-half, and Wilmington was second with 33 and one-half. Saturday at 4:30 o'clock at the Davidson Theatre, the Junior Class presented "The Lady of the Pavement." A crowd of students, some with young ladies, packed the house and viewed the picture for which the musical score was furnished by the Sunnyland Serenaders. The show featured Lupe Velez and William Boyd, supported by Jetta Goudal and George Fawcett.

Saturday night at 7:30, before a large audience, the Junior Class presented the "Rainbow Revue," staged and directed by Murray M. Grier, who put on the American Legion Follies at Statesville. The cast of the "Rainbow Revue" included members of the Junior Class and a few other students, twenty-five actors from the American Legion Follies, and the Gastonia Male Quartet. The scene of the revue was a hotel cabaret with the guests seated at the tables. The opening piece was "Song of the Vagabonds" sung by G. P. Pardington and the entire company. The body of the act then consisted of blackface skits and musical numbers. The characters of negro waiters were taken by N. C. Hodgin, R. M. Christian, E. R. Lawther, N. R. McGeachy, J. A. Wilson, I. L. Roberson, and M. M. Grier. Musical numbers were presented by R. M. Christian, J. A. Wilson, E. B. DuBose, and Misses Billie Deaton and Pauline Webb. Miss Elizabeth Presslay, accompanied by Miss Louise Kitchie, gave two "Musical Recitations." W. W. Franklin presented "Loose Feet," a tap-dancing number. Part of the program was given over to the Gastonia Male Quartet, which sang a number of pieces and offered some comedy acts. During the week-end, house-parties were held by the fraternities, and a number of guests were entertained.

BIDS GRANTED BY REPORTERS' CLUB

Sixteen men have received bids to become members of the Reporters' Club within the next few days. The Reporters' Club is a prominent campus organization devoted to the development of better journalists, especially in connection with The Davidsonian. Men selected for membership are those who have served well and faithfully at the office during working hours, and who have contributed worthwhile material to the editorial section of The Davidsonian. The following men were the recipients of bids to this club: D. G. Bartin, D. G. Stephenson, A. H. Whitehead, R. F. Newton, N. B. Dicks, C. G. Pepper, J. G. Dunklin, W. S. Lea, C. W. F. Spencer, W. T. Hancock, John M. Brown, G. P. Pardington, C. B. Tompkins, J. R. Smith, all of whom are freshmen. The following sophomores were bid: J. G. Berry and J. C. Matthews.

The third platoon of Company C took first place at the regular afternoon drill on Wednesday, March 20th, the second platoon of Company D took second, and the third platoon of Company A took third. Company B is still leading the competitive drill among the companies with twenty-two points. In the competitive platoon, the third platoon of Company C is first with fifteen points.