= ~ Puyt Four see ie 2 O° TREOTWAVIDS.ONLAN Y

CABINET PLANS TO AID STUDENTS
Student Assistants to be Selected by Faculty on May 8

Recently it was estimated that one-third of the student body of Davidson are self-help students. These students are either partially
or wholly paying their way through college. Of these men, ninety percent are passing all of their work and quite
a number are showing themselves to be outstanding in class work and campus activities.

The “Y” Self-help Campaign which is being conducted at the present for students seeking work for the summer months or
for Saturdays during the next year's school session, has been very successful so far under the leadership of Bob Turner.
Letters have been sent to the townspeople in an effort to obtain positions for job seekers and the “Y” appreciates
all the help that they can give the committee in charge. Also, the field in assistant professorships offers work for
many. The assistants in courses for the 1929-1930 session will be chosen by the faculty at a meeting to be
held May 8. Those students desiring positions as assistants, and who have not yet sent in their applications, are advised
to send these in as soon as possible as it is necessary that the faculty pass upon a man before
he receives an assistantship.

Just at this time is an excellent opportunity for students to secure work. Those students who would desire jobs either
out of town Saturday afternoons next session or inside of town during vacation, will see Bob Turner at the “Y.”
Previous “Y” Self-help Campaigns during the past few years have been very successful.

Davidson Trackmen Prepare To Enter Championship Meet
Currie and Whittle Expected to Win Honors

TITLE TO BE DECIDED
Carolina Favored to Win Meet With Duke as Closest Rival

Since the V. M. I. meet last Saturday, Captain Pritchett and the members of the track squad have devoted their
attention and efforts to the State meet in Greensboro tomorrow and Saturday. This tilt will definitely decide the state champion
track team for the season, in view of which each school will enter its best.

Captain Currie is about over his injury now and will be one of the Wildcats’ best hopes. As state champion
in the 100 and 220 yard dashes, he is expected to cop first place in each of these. Heath Whittle,
Davidson's other star dashman, is in fine shape for the hurdles and dashes. He broke his own record in the
220 yard low hurdles in the V. M. I. meet, his best time in that being 25 secs. flat at
present. Leftwich and Regen are both expected to place in the weights, the latter having shattered the Davidson discus record
twice in as many meets.

Capt. Bill Bailey is Davidson's best bet in the jumps. He also proved himself to be in fine shape for
the meet by breaking the Davidson record in the pole vault last week, vaulting 11 feet and 3 inches.

Carolina or Duke is favored to win the meet, with the former probably having the odds. The Tar Heels have
come off victor the majority of the time in this annual event. Her best hopes this year are in Gay,
star dashman, who has been winning his events with unusual regularity. He will very probably be Currie’s greatest opposition. Young
of State, Kinsey of Wake Forest, and Brummitt of Duke, are expected to show up best in their respective events
for these schools.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Campbell Trackmen Defeated By Fresh
Lillard Breaks College Record for Javelin

The Davidson Freshmen defeated Campbell College in a close and exciting track meet by the score of 55 to 53.
The Campbell College lads were leading by seven points when the mile, which was the final event of the meet,
was run. The Freshmen captured all three places in this event, nosing out the visitors by two points.

The high scorer of the meet was D. Bird of Campbell with 16 points closely followed by Lillard and Bethune
with 15 points each. Lillard proved to be the outstanding performer of the day by hurling the javelin 177 feet
3 inches. This betters the College record by nine feet and seven inches.

The summary of the events is as follows:
100 yd dash, Bethune (C), Gorham (D), Myers (C), time 10.8.
Mile run, Banks (D), McFadden (D), 5:1.
220 yard dash, Bethune (C), Myers (C), Gorham (D), 23.4 sec.
440 dash, Reeves (D), Bird (C), McGeehee (D), 56.4.
220 hurdles, Mann (D), Bird (C), 28.8.
880 yard run, Norton (D), West, F. (D), West, J. (D), 2:10.4.
High jump, Bird (C), and Allen (D) tied for second place, 5’5”.
Pole Vault, Bird (C), and McCay (C), tied for first, and Lasley (D) and Roan (D) tied for third, 9
feet.
Discus throw, Lillard (D), Lennon (D), and Regent (D), 118’ 9”.
Broad jump, Bethune (C), Bird (C), and Roan (D), 20’ 8-1/2”.
Shot put, Lillard (D), Milton (D), and Lennon (C), 43’ 2-3/8”.
Javelin, Lillard (D), 177’ 3”.

Wildcats Defeated By V.M. I. Trackmen

The Davidson Wildcat Track Team was forced to bow to the V. M. I. tracksters last Saturday, when it lost
by a score of 78 to 48. The meet was run on the victor's track, and was the last home
meet for V. M. I this season. Kell and Currie of the Wildcat team were both unable to participate in
the dashes which greatly weakened the strength of the team. V. M. I. succeeded in winning nine of the fourteen
first places. They won all three places in the mile and two-mile and also in the broad jump.

Heath Whittle of the Wildcats was the star of the meet. Entered in five events, he placed in four of
them winning the century, 220 yd. dash, and 220 yd. low hurdles. He broke one college record and was high
point man in the meet. Two other college records were broken when Regen hurled the discus 123 ft, 7 inches,
to break his own record; and Bailey broke the school record for the pole vault clearing the bar at 11
ft. 3 in.

ALUMNI COUNCIL HOLDS MEETING

Last Saturday, April 27, a committee from the Alumni Athletic Association met in Mr. Lunsford Richardson's office in Greensboro for
the purpose of deciding on theSchedule of games for the coming year and to discuss plans for the future of
the Davidson Physical Education Department. “There were present in addition to the regular committee three representatives of the Davidson faculty:
Mr. Jackson, Coach Younger, and Captain Pritchett. The members of the committee, with which they met, are: I. P. Graham,
of Cooleemee; L. H. Wilkinson, of Charlotte; and Lunsford Richardson, of Greensboro. During the meeting which lasted for about three
and a half hours, several important matters were discussed and it was decided that hereafter the committee should convene every
spring and fall.

Two Teams Chosen For Fresh Debates

In the Freshman Debating tryouts which were held the night of April 23, the following teams were chosen to engage
in a triangular debate with the University of North Carolina and Wake Forest College on May 8. Those upholding the
affirmative are: W. Rule, and E. D. Kuykendall; Negative, T. M. Lemly and P. S. Knox; Alternates, W. S. Lea
and F. L. McDavid. The Davidson affirmative team will meet the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, while the
negative team opposes Wake Forest here. The query is, “Resolved: That Jury Trial Should Be Abolished in Civil Cases.”

Tennis Team Wins Meets In Virginia

Davidson netmen have returned from a trip during which they took part in the State Collegiate Tournament, and met many
strong teams in Virginia. The first three matches of the trip were chalked up in the won column, the scores
being as follows: Davidson 4, U. of Va. 2; Davidson 6, V. P. I. 0; Davidson 5, William & Mary
1. Leaving here April 16, they went first to Greensboro where they were entered in the state tournament. Although three
days of rain made playing conditions very bad, Johnson went to the semi-finals and Halverstadt to the quarter-finals, both being
eliminated by the tournament winner. They left immediately after the tournament for their matches in Virginia.

Diner: “There’s a button in my soup, waiter.”
Waiter (ex-printer): “Typographical error, Sir, it should be ‘mutton.’” —Ex.

He—When I hold you in my arms I feel funny all over!
She—I’ll say you feel funny.

LAIRD IS SECURED (Continued from page 1)

...be raised to thirty-five cents. During the latter part of last week, music was played over the vitaphone but no
voice was heard. Work on the new equipment was begun over three weeks ago but because several of the parts
were broken and had to be replaced, the progress on it was very slow.

BRICKS DE LUXE ICE CREAM at STUDENT STORE
CONES MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM CO.
CUPS

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers
BARNETT and COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

ONLY A FEW DAYS LEFT
Clearance Sale lasts only a few days longer. It will pay you to come in and look over the many
articles offered at Greatly Reduced Prices.
JOPPA, W. S. HENDERSON
Davidson, N. C.

Up to the present time all attempts to install vitaphones in theatres of the size of the one at Davidson
have been unsuccessful. New inventions in this field are being made very rapidly and it is evident that the time
is not far off when it will be possible to have talkies in theatres of all sizes.

HARDIE TALKS (Continued from page 1)

...national holidays of France, but rather reminiscences of his schoolboy holidays both secular and religious. Instead, then, of beginning with
January and proceeding through the months of the year, he began with September, the beginning of the school year. Each
festive day was described with its quaint customs and occasionally an old song associated with it. Though some of the
French holidays are related to ours, the customs vary widely from ours; for instance, the day that corresponds with our
Hallowe’en is not a time for hilarity, but a time to think of death and decorate the graves. Professor Hardre
sang a number of old French songs during the course of his lecture. Among them was one which the boys
sing as they give flowers to their girls on May Day, which has a verse for every day in May,
being somewhat on the order of “The Good Old Ship of Zion” or “Forty-one Bottles.”

PENWICK DELIVERS (Continued from page 1)

...wills we surrender our entire personality to Him and so gain real faith, the faith that dares to do bold
things and so gives to us the marks of Christ.

STATE DEFEATED (Continued from Page Three)

*Batted for Albright in eighth.
xBatted for Eatman in ninth.
zBatted for Clarke in ninth.

Davidson State Errors: Goodson, Crawford, Furtado (4), Woodworth (3), Littlejohn. Two-base hits: Brake, Snipes. Three-base hits: Albright, McKinney. Sacrifices: Marrow,
Littlejohn. Double play: Goodson, Littlejohn, and Miller.

What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?

ANSWER NO. 16

Some college men are flattered when invited at graduation into the service of a great industrial or commercial corporation. If
you have a desire to form the foremost connection for your life, may not this be one element of your
call to the ministry—to the direct service of Almighty God? Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a happy
and achieving life; perhaps we could help you.

Union Theological Seminary
May 2, 1929

GENERAL ELECTRICITY— the modern prospector

STOUT heart; a burro laden with pick, shovel, and the bare necessities of life; and the prospector was ready for
the gold rush—Sutter’s Mill, the Pike’s Peak country, Cripple Creek, Klondyke. A scattered trail of half-worked claims marked his sacrifices.

Today mining is a business, with electricity replacing wasteful brawn in mine and mill. The deep mine, with electric lights,
hoists, and locomotives; the surface mine with huge electric shovels scooping up tons of ore in a single bite; the
concentrating mill with its batteries of electrically driven machines; the steel mill with its constant electric heat—here are but a
few of electricity’s contributions to the mineral industries.

So in every industry, electricity increases production and cuts costs. It is the modern prospector, leading the way into wider
fields and tapping undeveloped resources—that we may enjoy a finer civilization and a richer, fuller life.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY

You will find this monogram on powerful motors that drive heavy mining machinery and on tiny motors that drive sewing
machines. Both in industry and in the home it is the mark of an organization that is dedicated to electrical
progress.
