THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17, 1929

’Cats Hold Strong Army Eleven to 16-7

Side Line Shots At Davidson’s Great Fight Against Army
By P. R. Alderman

Each week sees another Wildcat battle go down as 1929 Davidson football history and so the Davidson-Army clash of last Saturday must inevitably be classified as such. Some games are forgotten almost immediately, some linger in the minds of Davidsonians for a long or short period of time as the case may be, and a select few are never forgotten. Needless to say, last week's battle-royal is one of the latter and this game will always be an inspiring memory to past, present, and future Wildcats. No uphill fight carried on with such undying spirit and determination as that against the Cadets could fail to demand such a place in the hearts of true sportsmen.

Captain Thad Brock, typifying the Davidson eleven with his superb playing and unstinted fight, led his fellow Wildcats through a battle with the biggest foe to be met this season in such a manner as to invoke the praise and admiration of football followers throughout the country. This was evidenced by the fact that the group of spectators, numbering 16,000, were wildly cheering the Wildcats when at the end of the first half the score was Davidson 7, Army 3. This was more than the most optimistic 'Cat supporter had dared hope for and something that the Cadets would hardly have accepted as true had it been prophesied ahead of time.

As has been truly said, to name a Davidson star for the day would be to name every man who saw action. But Captain Brock and Don King, if any, deserve special mention for the execution of a beautiful 30-yard pass, the former to the latter, that gave Davidson a lead of four points over the Army and her lone tally of the day. The plucky Cat leader again showed that he still knew how to account for extra points when they are due and boosted the score up a point with his educated toe.

The game was not featured by the presence of Dame Luck in favor of either team to any extent. The Wildcats undoubtedly outplayed their stronger opponent in the first half and, in Cagle and Murrel, the Cadets put up two of the best backs in America to overcome this lead. Lest we forget, however, there are six more tough scraps left on the Wildcat program for 1929, among them the Citadel Bulldogs, scheduled to meet the Red and Black machine on Richardson field day after tomorrow. Each eleven showed just how they felt about things last week against the Army and V. M. I. They both have fight, and how! In other words, when Cat and Dog meet Saturday to settle old scores there’s going to be action and plenty of it. To verify this consider that each does have old scores to settle, that each lost the last game played after a hard fight and that each is characterized by an unlimited supply of courage and grit—all of which means a good football game in every sense of the word!

Due to a change in the Wildkitten’s schedule the game with the Wofford Fresh will not be played tomorrow as previously announced, but will be staged about the middle of November. This will prohibit the student body from giving this year’s fresh the once over before November 8 when they meet the State first year men here. Coach Laird’s men undoubtedly have a better than average team at least as was evidenced by a tie with the strong Oak Ridge Cadets and it is a pretty unanimous opinion that there is some real material out for the Kitten squad this year.

Davidson Takes 7-3 Lead at End of Half But Cadets Launch Strong Attack to Win
Army Makes 14 First Downs Against 9 for ’Cats
KING SCORES ON PASS
Crowd of 16,000 Watches Wildcats Check Efforts of Cagle and Murrell

The Davidson Wildcats, playing an inspired game of football, held the Army to a 23 to 7 score last Saturday at West Point. Early in the second period the ’Cats pushed a touchdown across on the Cadets, and took the ball inside their opponent's fifteen yard line on two other occasions, only to lose it by intercepted passes or because of penalties. The Wildcats played an offensive game that has not been equaled by a Davidson team for quite a while. Eighteen passes were attempted, five of which were completed for a gain of 100 yards. Three of them were for more than twenty-five yards each. The running attack of the ’Cats was good for 115 yards more, bringing the total gain to 215 yards.

Nor was the defensive play of the Davidson team far behind their offense. The small score which the West Pointers were able to roll up proves that beyond a doubt. But that does not tell the whole story. Late in the first quarter after a long run by Cagle had placed the ball on the visitors' 18 yard line, the Wildcats braced and held Cagle, Murrell, et al, for downs, making them try a field goal on the fourth down, which was successful. The Army was able to gain only six yards in three plays with the goal only a few yards away, and a touchdown not yet scored. Again in the fourth quarter, when the Cadet ranks were full of substitutes, the ball was carried to the Cat twenty yard line, only to have Davidson hold for downs and get the ball.

Captain Brock played one of the games of his career. He played the entire time and featured in nearly every play. He was a tower of strength on the defensive, but where he shone was on the offense. Besides playing his end in his usual brilliant style, he did most of the punting for the ’Cats, and was on the firing end of most of Davidson's heaves, passing in a manner that was all that could be asked. His passing accounted for the only touchdown of the Wildcats, and his heaves were repeatedly placing his team in a threatening position. But close behind him dashed a Sophomore back by the name of Don King. His powerful off-tackle thrusts and line smashes accounted for a good part of the yardage gained by the ’Cats on their running attack. He received Brock’s long pass and carried the ball over the line for Davidson's touchdown. His defensive work was as brilliant as was his offensive play and he did much to break up the heaves of Cagle and other Cadets. His tackling was sure and hard all the time.

Joe McCall played the safety position for the Wildcats in a consistent manner. He hit the line hard on smashes and ripped off several nice gains. Fraley played a jam-up defensive game all the time, stopping many Army thrusts for little or no gain. The Bradshaw Brothers, Red Parrish, and Fraley all turned in sparkling games.

Summary
Army Pos. Davidson
Hiliber cacooue (L) Deapareagreya
Brock letsbl tne Istessce Covington
Mhibabyye 2 (C) DeCamp
Miller Center Mason
lbp bye RG Mathis
Retryscceeesoto8 Rupee ewue tes Raker
Malloy Ribec Brown
Bowman Qib McCall
O’Keefe (L) Paeaa Rue Kingries Rabteeeccse Parrish Murrell ....--_- MB Sees sees Fraley

Period Scores:
ATINVieotaceses ce 2296.00 1057-203
IDAVICSO! eee meee (Y(t) (WS Y/

Army — scoring:
Touchdowns: Cagle, Stuart.
Army: Touchdowns: Cagle, Murrell, Stuart, (placement.) Field goal: O'Keefe.
Davidson scoring touchdown: King. Point after touchdown: Brock, (placement.)

The line from tip to tip charged as one man, and fought in their usual Wildcat style. For the West Pointers, Chris Cagle and Murrell were outstanding in their plays. Cagle, All-American back, got off on several of his famous broken field runs for long gains. His passing was accurate and accounted for a good many yards. Murrell ran Cagle a close race for yards gained, besides doing much of the punting for the Army. O'Keefe stood out on the defensive as well as on the offensive. Stuart and Hutchinson, substitutes, were continual thorns in the sides of the 'Cats while they were in the game.

The game opened by Brock kicking off over the goal line. Murrell got off a poor kick to the Army thirty-two yard line. During most of the first quarter the ball was in Davidson's possession in the Army’s territory, due to the poor kicking of Murrell. Near the end of the period, however, King fumbled when tackled hard, and Murrell recovered for the Army on its own 40 yard line. Murrell made it first down in midfield, then Cagle to the 20 yard line. The ‘Cats braced here and, when on the fourth down, there was still three yards to go, O'Keefe dropped back and put the ball through the cross bars for a field goal, giving the Army three points. A few plays later the quarter ended with the ball in the Cadets’ possession on their 20 yard line.

The second quarter was all Davidson. They got loose. Davidson gained over seven times as much ground as did the Pointers, the ball being in their possession most of the time. Murrell kicked to McCall, who was downed on his own 40 yard line. A fifteen yard penalty placed the ball on Army’s 45 yard stripe. King and McCall made it first down. Fraley and McCall accounted for four yards, then a pass by Fraley failed. On the fourth down, Brock dropped back and shot a perfect pass for 40 yards to King, who stepped across the goal for the first touchdown of the game. Brock also converted the extra point.

The Army was forced to punt after the kickoff, and McCall was downed in his tracks on his 30 yard line. He picked up seven yards on a fake, then King got a yard. Fraley stepped back and hurled a pass to Joe McCall which netted 27 yards and placed the ball on the Army's 35 yard line. Brohard made it first on the Cadet’s 19 yard line in three plays. McCall was stopped and a pass was knocked down, then another Davidson pass was intercepted to break up the threat. The two teams exchanged punts until the half ended, with the score Davidson 7, Army 3.

The Soldiers came back mad in the second half to score three touchdowns. But they had Point Win. Sophomore End Steve Brown, another Wildcat who has played a hard consistent game this season, and who gave a good account of himself against Army’s All-Americans, broke up another Davidson rally early in the third period. A bad punt by Murrell gave Davidson the ball on the Army 40 yard line. King broke loose to the Army 25, then Brock passed to McCall for a first down on the fifteen yard line. A yard penalty broke up Davidson's and Brock missed his try for a field goal.

Then the Army opened up. Murrell and Cagle made two quick first downs, then Cagle passed to O'Keefe for 30 yards, placing the ball on the ‘Cats 10 yard line. Murrell and Cagle then carried it over and O'Keefe made the point. Murrell actually took the ball over the last line. The Cadets made the march of eighty yards in fifteen chances, eight plays. The second score came as quickly as the first. The Army got the ball on their own 40 yard line after a poor kickoff by Davidson. The Cagle to Murrell combination placed the ball on the Wildcats 27 yard line. Fletcher gained nine, and Murrell nine more, then Cagle carried it over. Point was missed.

The last Army touchdown came early in the last period. Murrell broke through the center of the line for 25 yards, after Cagle had intercepted a pass on his own 40 yard line. Then two plays later Stuart, who came in for Cagle, broke loose for 27 yards and a touchdown. O'Keefe got the extra point. A few plays later, the Cadets carried the ball to the Davidson 15 yard line by virtue of a long run by Green, and several short thrusts, but the ‘Cats held and the ball went over. Davidson threatened two other times before the game was over. They got the ball on the Army's 30 yard line after penalties had placed it there, but several passes were grounded, and the Army reserves held the tired ‘Cats on their running plays. But the ‘Cats, still fighting, got the ball in midfield, and a long pass placed the ball again within the Cadets’ 30 yard zone. But Carver intercepted a pass and the game was over.

More Truth Than Poetry
A college paper is a grand invention
For the school gets all the fame:
The printer gets all the money,
And the staff gets all the blame.

Golfers Win Match With Gastonia Team
Gastonia’s golf team fell before the representation from Davidson by a score of 10-8 on Friday, October 4th. This is the first win that Davidson has ever been able to account for against Gastonia. Capt. A. L. Mills, of Davidson, and C. D. Gray, of Gastonia, tied for the low score of 7-7. Among the new men on Davidson's team were John Thompson and Tom Bowles who showed up well. The only matches lost by Davidson were lost by a very close score.

After the meet the Gastonia team gave a delightful entertainment to the Davidson boys in the form of a luncheon at the Gastonia Country Club. It was on the course of this club that the matches were held. Davidson held a match with the Salisbury team yesterday, and a match with Concord will be played in the near future. Due to the addition of stronger men to Davidson’s team, it is expected to make a much better showing this year than heretofore and some very interesting matches are expected.

Scoring:
Mills Pepper 3 points
Bowles 1 point
Mills and Bowles 2 points
Pepper and Thompson 1 1-2 points
Davidson 0 points
Gray 2 points
Torrence 1 1-2 points
Torrence and George Gray 1 point
Durham and Gray 1 1-2 points
Gastonia 8 points

Wildcat Fullback Walter Fraley, whose defensive work behind the line has featured throughout the season, and who played a prominent part in the spiking of Army guns Saturday.

STATIONERY
FOUNTAIN PENS
SUNDRIES
Victor, Brunswick and Columbia Records every week
W. S. HENDERSON
CANDIES
SMOKES
SODA