Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN April 18, 1929

“THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday.
Anonymous articles will not be published.

ZEB V. LONG, JR. ------------ Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL ---------------- Business Manager

Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
A. L. ------------------------ Asst. Bus. Mgr.
J. H. McCALL ----------------- Circulation Mgr.
J. B. McGUIRE ---------------- Advertising Mgr.
J. SLOO ----------------------- Asst. Adv. Mgr.
J. McCUTCHAN ----------------- Exchange Editor
J. LEY ------------------------ Sports Editor
P. ALDERMAN ----------------- Associate Editor
D. ANDERSON ----------------- Associate Editor
J. BROWN --------------------- Assistant Editor
J. KARRATT ------------------- Associate Editor
F. MILLER -------------------- Associate Editor
C. PRATT --------------------- Associate Editor
L. E. ------------------------- Associate Editor
W. EVERINGTON --------------- Associate Editor
C. CANNON -------------------- Associate Editor
J. MAJORS -------------------- Associate Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
J. ELY ------------------------ President
W. McDERMID ----------------- Vice-President
J. ROOTES --------------------- Secretary
E. S. HEEFNER ---------------- Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN --------------- Reporter
R. GRAHAM -------------------- Reporter
W. KIRKPATRICK -------------- Reporter
W. R. WEAVER ---------------- Reporter
S. H. LONG -------------------- Reporter
S. WILEY ---------------------- Reporter
J. P. McBRYDE ---------------- Reporter
J. V. D. MIDDLETON ----------- Reporter

THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 1929

Here and There

The whole student body congratulates John Currie and Heath Whittle on their splendid showing at the Georgia Tech Relays. Consolation to the Sophs for their postponed day of festivity, and congratulations to the Freshmen. Appreciation for Dr. Donald W. Richardson and his wonderful messages, and to the “Y” for bringing him here. Speculation upon the new schedule for next year. An unknown quantity. Appeal for student body support of the minstrel and concert at Shearer Hall tomorrow night. Band Uniforms at stake. Good luck to the freshmen baseball team as it prepares for varsity service. Hopes for a varsity win over Clemson. Everybody out at 2:30—Richardson Field.

PREPARATION

Coming events cast their shadows before, says the old adage, and it is true. Concrete evidence may be found on the last page of this copy of your paper. The next examination schedule is a shadow which covers a lot of ground and is fraught with possibilities, both good and bad. Twice a year comes the time when the stately outline for written examinations finds its way into student hands, carrying with it a challenge and a call to duty, and it is a puzzle as to the varied responses which the schedule may arouse in those whom it concerns.

To some students it is merely a reminder that term papers must be rushed a little more than was planned, or that parallel work must be drawn to a close. These men have labored more or less consistently throughout the year. Consequently, in spite of its promise of grinding work, the exam-schedule offers also the promise of work completed, satisfactorily completed, and the vision of vacation beyond. Another class of men, inevitably present on every campus, is that to whom the announcement offers nothing better than unpleasant memories of neglected duties, of postponed work, and the prospect of disappointment at the end of the school year. Usually, it all gets back to the same old “boning and grinding” late at nights and most of the day just before exam time. No man approaches examination period with eagerness and joy, but there is all the difference in the world between the two types mentioned above or between individuals which you might pick out for yourself. One goes in confidently with his eyes rightly fixed on the sunshine beyond the shadow, while the other must grope along slowly through the shadow, lacking the mental vigor to weather the ordeal in top-notch style. Exams have been the shadows for a long time. It is a pity that so many never think of things like that until the shadow falls directly upon them. Then comes the regret, the wishing, the struggle. It is that job of preparation which faces every man in college today, which calls to him to watch the shadows and be ready when they fall. Life gives no printed schedule about her times of testing and trial. She strikes when and where she pleases, and spares no one. The law of the survival of the fittest doesn’t always hold true. Fate takes a hand occasionally—but the fellow who learned to prepare himself in days of sunshine is pretty likely to be perched on a high rock and doing well when the shadows begin to fall along the lowlands. Whatever has gone before, don’t throw in now. Get lined up by the new schedule, and dig in for the rest of the year. Chances are you'll surprise yourself when the final grades are turned in, and certainly the lesson of foresight, of timely preparation, will be stored away for future use.

SOPH DAY AGAIN

Freshmen will remember Soph Day as long as they live, for it is their day of bondage and subjugation to the more powerful, or should we say important, sophomores. Down the years comes the tradition and the execution of Soph Day, and we are in hearty accord with it, as now conducted on Davidson campus. There should be one day, at least, when all formality and dignity of manner and dress can be shelved, and when the whole student body can engage in wholesome fun. The day of extreme punishment for the first year men has passed from all forward-looking colleges, and the idea now in vogue is to create a program for freshmen which will be amusing and indicative of the ever-present “Soph Supremacy,” but which will inflict no unreasonable or dangerous conditions. Davidson’s Soph Day is well within the bounds of safety and of human consideration. Gone forever are the days when painted “rats” rushed into their dormitories to find all water connections cut off, leaving as the only alternative a plunge into the then present lake.

In the long run, the freshmen get as much enjoyment out of the day as anybody else, and so long as those in charge of the activities for the occasion maintain level heads, no harm can result. May the clarion cries of the time-callers long ring out from the porch of old Georgia, and may Soph Day hold to its place in the list of local traditions.

MENTAL INDEPENDENCE

One of the most important things that a man can acquire at college is the ability to form his own opinions on the more vital phases of life. President Eliot of Harvard once stated that part of the equipment that a student should get from college was the habit of independent thinking on books, prevailing customs, and current events. He thought that the man who received the highest benefit from a college education was the one who had developed a mind capable of making decisions without relying upon popular opinions.

If this is true, there are only a very few students who are receiving one of the greatest advantages offered at college. The student body is influenced by the opinions of a small number of men. These men, who are the leaders of their classes, have been, with very few exceptions, the leaders during their whole college life. They form their own opinions on a subject, and the rest of the students, who comprise the bulk of the college, merely agree with them, and either lack the ability or the interest to think independently.

This is a vital question, because college is merely a step in the preparation for life. Thus, if a man does not learn to think for himself while he is in college, it is very probable that he will go through life relying on the opinions of others. The majority of these people are perfectly content to drift through life, agreeing with the common consensus of opinion. However, they should realize the serious consequences of such a stand, and should make a conscious effort to think independently and to agree with a question not because it is the popular opinion but because it is their own opinion after giving the matter careful deliberation.

OLD OR NEW?

Are the old traditions and standards of conduct which have been characteristic of Davidson for many years breaking away? Are those chivalric and courteous ideals which distinguish the true gentleman from his less polished associates being replaced by codes of conduct which lack all the finer qualities of manhood? In years gone by, Davidson men established traditions which have long been held sacred to their memory, and considered the very essence of the college. Once students of the old school when meeting one another on the campus, deemed it courteous and the part of a gentleman to speak a kind, cheery word of greeting, but now—vague rumors are abroad that the practice is a nuisance. Has the new industrial era so changed the country that the old standards of common courtesy are beginning to be swept away? Do we now stress the conservation of bodily energies to the extent of tearing away the old institutions as regards conduct?

Not alone in this one particular are conditions changing. No longer does the one-time Wildcat Spirit stress during athletic events. No longer do the freshmen “horse” the sophomores, and the sophs retaliate as they once did. The love of the old strife seems to have died. Is it the new industrialism permeating humanity even in the rudimentary things of life? If this be the case, if the passing of the old ideals and the influx of the new has engendered such a condition, shall we allow these revered traditions of ours to be cast aside in favor of such narrow and self-centered standards of conduct?

J. B. B., Jr.

In a note to Geneva, Germany demands immediate action in regard to disarmament. She demands that the naval altercation between the United States and Great Britain be tabled in deference to this latest matter. The former Empire would cease to worry if it were not for her misdeeds of the past. She was the first to adopt poisonous gases in field warfare, she the first to openly declare solemn treaties to be mere scraps of paper. But all the “king’s horses and all the king’s men can not lift Humpty Dumpty up again.”

Miss Texas Guinan, night club hostess par excellence, accused of being a public nuisance, has been acquitted. When on trial she frankly admitted that she increased the enjoyment of human life more by the distribution of forbidden beverages, than by sitting at home sewing. Would that Teddy Roosevelt were here to admonish her. It is fortunate that there is only one.

Cosmic Chaos
By J. W. McCutchan

Current Comment
By John Brown

WANTON WILES
By Dave Anderson

The New York Times, which has an earning capacity of from five to ten million dollars annually, has recently had its capitalization raised to $26,000,000. In its younger days its motto, “All the news that’s fit to print,” was laughed at, but 78 years of experience have proved its policy to be a good one.

It has been suggested that all retailers be required to pass an examination and secure a license, just as a professional man, before selling to the public. Investigations have shown that before it was required to file income tax returns, only one out of every twenty-five kept books. The other twenty-four ran their businesses by guesswork alone.A kind of amusement was introduced last week in Pittsburgh. A man stole a streetcar from the local car barn and rode out to the end of the line alone for a Saturday night joy ride, merrily clanging the bell as he rode. According to statistics, the United States seems to be approaching a saturation point in automobiles. Five years ago, the percentage of growth was 23, but growth has steadily decreased, until last year cars increased only five per cent. There were, at the last registration, 23,127,315 cars and trucks in the U.S. That ought to be about enough for our population, considering the large number who cannot afford even an old Ford. In foreign countries, manufacturers are beginning to put up a stiff fight against American automobile competition.

(Continued on page 4)

Miss Guinan, or race suicide would become a reality. Latest operatic news concerns one of the youngest of its stars. Marion Talley, whose phenomenal success brought the world of music to her feet, has declared that she will retire at the early expiration of her contract. It is reported that Miss Talley has netted some three hundred thousand dollars while appearing in grand opera. Yet many of her friends in Kansas City who financed her training are a bit mystified. She intends to take up agriculture in the Buckeye state. From Il Trovatore to milking cows—well, it may be a Jack Dempsey retirement and it may not.

Federal authorities in Canton, China, turn machine guns on radical agitators and kill one hundred of them. Twenty-five years ago, their heads would have been placed on poles and paraded through the streets. China is becoming civilized. Like the Yellow Father Tiber, a yellow tide is arising in the East to mingle with the Asiatic hordes. India and China united will form a great nation and a terrible one for the rest of us.

Ten-year-old Merle Phemicie was recently arrested in Greencastle for bootlegging. Tender of years, he made the mistake of selling contraband to the Sheriff and two deputies. He and his father were immediately placed under a large bond. Prohibition must be enforced, but perhaps even the strictest law abider would hesitate at the stringent punishment of a mere child. Reform school should be the limit of his disgrace, but his father and mother should be taught how to correctly rear the citizens of tomorrow.

When a thirty-five-ton meteor fell in South Africa, it brought back memories of former visitors from the outside cosmos. It is known by men of science that meteors of this weight must come from a source outside the earth’s solar system. By examining them, it is possible to gain an idea of the composition and elements of other worlds. One which fell in Dhurmsala, India, was coated with ice in two hours. Though the friction had heated the outside of this meteor to approximately ten thousand degrees Centigrade, yet the inside of it was of a temperature several hundred degrees below zero. Probably man will never know whence it came nor what force caused its arrival.

Listen Campus: Some people have said that exams are not far off. It may be so. Little Johnny Klu never worried much, but he wrote a letter the other day in which he said he might be wounded. Listen: Never let the other guy shoot first. Always beat him on the draw, and sue him on the grade of your ammunition. And say Campus! Hoot fair on the finals, cause they may be your last.

THE NOBLE ART OF BLUFFING

A science professor, in an examination, gave a series of terms to be defined. In the number, he included a meaningless, entirely fictitious word. The word he coined for the purpose was what might be termed “scientific-sounding” but was absolutely void of meaning. Out of twenty-three students, twenty-one defined the fictitious term, some few touching up their definition with flowing words and knowledge gleaned elsewhere. That is the noble art of bluffing! But bluffing is a harmful art, you say. Perhaps. Life itself is one long bluff. When you have to sit through a dry lecture course, when you have to listen to the boresome fish-tale of the long-winged great uncle on your father’s side, when—oh, anytime—what do you do? Be nonchalant—light a Murad. Bluff! Freeze an interested look on your face and play truant. Just like a little boy playing hooky from school. When your aunt finds you cutting radio wire with her best scissors, what do you do? Bluff. A great art, this bluffing. But it doesn’t always work. When the language professor, for instance, calls on you and you read something that has already been translated—and translated correctly—in that case, a whole box of Murads would be useless.

THE ROOMMATE

Joe College says that his roommate took a bath last Wednesday night. When the chapel bell rang on Thursday morning, he got out of bed, grabbed the morning paper, and looked for the “full page of colored comics appearing every Sunday.” Lives there a student with soul so dead that never to himself hath said, “... that review?—I’m going to bed!” (maybe). This paper comes out on Soph-Day, the day of all days for the Frosh. Just when he is getting sophisticated and acquiring an “I’m a college man” air to display to the town talent back home, Soph-Day pops up. And the young sophisticate spends a pleasant day wearing his clothes backward, riding stick hobby-horses, crawling around, bowing to Sophs and other childish tricks. Invariably, he will “pan” the very day itself—but will keep all memoirs of it to show to his grandchildren.

Contemporary Thought

EBB TIDE

For eighteen years, the Boston Transcript has annually compiled the enrollments of ninety representative American colleges and universities and presented its figures as a typically national survey. They have been acceptable, inasmuch as the curve that has been true for these institutions would have been just as true for the many smaller colleges left out. It finds that there are today six times as many students in these colleges as were there thirty years ago. For the decade between 1890 and 1900, the gain was over 4,500 a year. For the next decade, that gain was nearly 10,000 a year, and it has touched 50,000 since then. Lately, there has been a steady slowing up of this phenomenal increase. The interesting point about these figures is that this year the rate of increase has dropped to the lowest since the war. For the last five years, the percent gain has been 6.5, 5.1, 4.7, 4.8, and 3. The tendency has obviously been a slowing up of college registration. The gain last year over the previous year was 13,800; this year it is 9,000. The total enrollment in the selected institutions is now 301,363. It is in the freshman classes that the figures best show conditions. Last fall, 75,733 entered these ninety colleges and universities as compared to 76,029 in 1927, a percent loss of 0.389. Throughout the country, half of the colleges report small freshman increases, and half small losses. The peak seems to have been reached in the number of incoming freshmen. This may be due to a number of causes. Such a tremendous gain per year as happened in the first years following the armistice in Europe could not possibly be maintained permanently under the best of conditions. In the West, the farming situation has not been conducive to heavier college registration. There has been the development during this period of the junior college, which is not reckoned with in the figures above, and which undoubtedly has drawn students from the smaller Western institutions. There has been the movement among the endowed universities in the country toward limitation of numbers, so as deliberately to hold down the number of students to the equipment and the size of the faculty. Whatever has been the cause of the halt in the upward college-enrollment movement, the fact is established that the American college is approaching a stabilization of student attendance which will permit a stabilization of everything else connected with its work—teaching staff, courses, and building equipment. This, of course, is wholly to the advantage of the college. When the great rush to the colleges began at the close of the war, the colleges themselves were unprepared. Their faculties were distributed, owing to enlistment and war work. Their new faculty material had, for the moment, fallen behind the demand. Their funds had come to a standstill. Their physical equipment had been “standing still.” They had to begin all over again. The result for a time was close to chaos, with finances in a bad way and more students knocking at the door than there was room for. The colleges gradually caught up with the flood of students, but it has been only lately that some measure of comfort has again found its way into their operation, and even now this is true only in a comparative sense. The rush of new students during this period has been a healthy thing, but it will be a relief to the colleges themselves to find that it is now slowing down and that the educational business is again approaching normal. The new normal, however, will be at a higher level than before the war. And in general, the American college has risen to that new and higher level in its operation—The Yale Alumni Weekly.

Is this lessened acceleration to be taken as merely accidental and temporary, or is it the beginning of a permanent slowing up or a possible decline? There are good reasons for believing that it may be more than temporary. The slowing up has no special geographical limits. In twenty-two states, there are actually fewer college and university students than in the previous year, and these states are scattered through every section of the country from New England to the Pacific Coast. The junior college has cut down to some extent what would have been larger increases in the four-year colleges. In a few years, junior colleges have increased in number to more than four hundred. In the more distant future, large increases in college and university attendance are not in sight. Our much smaller immigration brings a much smaller number of prospective college students. Our native rate of increase is small. Our present birth rate is 21 per thousand as against 19 per thousand in France, and if the Southern States with a high negro birth rate are excluded, our rate is only 17 per thousand. Certainly, the growth of population is much less than a few years ago, and the growth of colleges is very likely to fall off still more in the course of a decade unless the values or other attractions of college training shall come to appeal still more widely than at present—Dr. A. L. Jones, Columbia University.

Decrease in the numbers seeking admittance will come largely in the ranks of the intellectually inactive; the men of valid interests will continue to seek the college. To attribute the decline in numbers to the birth rate seems to stretch a point. Most men are anxious that their sons attend college; if they have the funds, they will send them. Lessening of the material prosperity of the country, at least in the ranks of the middle classes, and a growing conviction that college education is neither the sure way to succeed nor the privilege of every white male individual of the country, seem almost equally important—The Daily Princetonian.