Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not
be published.

E. V. LONG, JR. - Editor-in-Chief
J. M. POWELL - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
E. B. WATKINS - Managing Editor
J. F. McCUTCHAN - Managing Editor
J. S. WILEY - Managing Editor
P. R. WILLIAMS - Athletic Editor
W. C. RAGIN - Feature Editor
J. R. SMITH - Feature Editor
J. L. COX - Assistant Editor
J. F. JARRATT - Associate Editor
F. D. MITER - Associate Editor
C. M. GIBSON - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. L. A. MILLS - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. McCALL - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. WILLIAMS - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
R. F. SMITH - Circulation Mgr.
H. B. HARRIS - Subscription Mgr.
H. McCALL - Solicitor
G. D. TAYLOR - Solicitor
A. CANNON - Solicitor
J. D. MAJORS - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. S. HEENER - President
W. C. RAGIN - Vice-President
J. V. D. MIDDLETON - Secretary-Treasurer
G. BERRY
C. PEPPER
C. MATTHEWS
K. G. DUNKLIN
G. MARTIN
J. R. SMITH
C. W. F. SPENCER
D. G. STEPHENSON
W. T. HANCOCK
A. H. WHITEHEAD
JOHN M. BROWN
R. F. NORTON
G. P. PARDINGTON
N. B. DICKS
C. B. TOMKINS, '29

THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 1929

REAL BUSINESS

As the days draw near when cap and gown will dominate the walks of the campus, when speeches and presentations
will be the order of the hour, when friends and relatives will throng the college grounds, the minds of college
men turn to more serious speculation than usual. Commencement is a wonderful occasion, both to the participant and to the
onlooker, and to each it offers food for serious thought. More than any other time of the year it seems
to speak of “real business.”

Seniors, rushing about in the mad effort to wind up their affairs, stop once in a while to wonder what
it is going to be like away from the sound of Davidson’s bell, and out of her sheltering walls. They
know that a task of great proportions awaits them, and that people will be ever on the alert to censure
or commend their actions in the world of business or profession. Gratification of achievement and regret of lost opportunity vie
with each other for top place in the training of thought. But above all, the spirit of determination engages the
outgoing Senior and turns his powers along the high road to success. He must make this thing of life a
“real business”—a real accomplishment which will justify the years of training, and which will entitle him to a secure place
in the regard of family, friends, and teachers. Yes, it’s a real business which beckons to the fourth-year man.

And then, naturally, Commencement brings serious thoughts to the onlookers, the under-classmen. Desire to gain the point in college rating
won by the Senior is instilled into the men who remain, or, on the other hand, there may come a
realization of things undone and a subsequent hope to surpass the older men. Finally, the sad truth of ways parting
and personal contacts lost comes into the picture. Probably this is the thing which gives Commencement its almost sacred air.
Well do we remember seeing prominent Seniors leave on the last day as quickly as possible, neglecting to speak to
many old friends, simply because, as they said, “I can’t stand to tell Jim good-bye”—keeping a happy memory of days
together unmarred by a farewell which might be the last. Yes, it’s “real business” any way you look at it.

THE STATE MEET

In a week or so athletes from every college in North Carolina will be flocking to Greensboro and the Memorial
Stadium where the annual State Track Meet will be held. Davidson’s best bets will be in evidence on that day
as will a good number of Davidson students to witness the festivities. It should be so, we think. There is
nothing so helpful in upholding the reputation of a school as a student body which is sure to be on
hand when the teams are on the testing block.

As usual, Carolina and Duke will more than likely lead the field in entries. In years past, the Tar Heels
have far surpassed their competitors in men qualified, and as a result have walked off with the title most of
the time. Such a condition makes it very hard for a college the size of Davidson to make a creditable
showing. Yet, the Wildcats have never failed to win some of the most coveted places and some of the highest
awards. Lacking a well-rounded track team, Davidson has boasted men in the dashes who knew no equal, and this year
will be no exception to that rule. A good many points are due to fall behind the flying feet of
Currie, Whittle, and the rest of the speedsters.

The thing to think about, however, is the prospect for the future, and we cannot help but believe that Davidson
is on the verge of a new day, not only in track exploits, but in every branch of athletic activity.
We long for the time when a state meet or a title race of gridiron, diamond, or court will mean
at least an equal chance for the Red and Black. That day seems to be coming, slowly, perhaps, but surely.
Interest is being aroused in every quarter of affairs in regard to the athletics of the college. It seems certain
that definite action will be taken to boost the present condition. Soon we may hope for the state meet to
mean more than just a chance for winning two or three places. Davidson is coming into her own. Go over
and watch the Wildcats next week. They are going to bring honor to the college. Don’t think that the Cats
can win the meet—we won't qualify enough men to win, but those who do get in are sure to be
the class of the day. It’s great to bring a bunch of athletes together of the high type which will
be in evidence at Greensboro. The nation can boast of no finer lot. The keenness of competition is in no
wise lessened by the fact that two or three schools enter a majority of the contestants. Manhood is developed and
college spirit is seared deep into the hearts of loyal sons at a state meet. There’s a glamour and a
glory there.

POOR MEN’S SONS

That Clarence Darrow, nationally known criminal lawyer of Loeb and Leopold fame, should make the statement to a Nebraskan reporter,
“If you are a poor student, don’t study law and the other professions because the rich students are the only
ones that have a chance in these fields,” was both a shock and disappointment, and was greeted with about the
same enthusiasm and welcome as a garter snake in a box of corn flakes. This bit of fatherly advice in
a college town, to a representative of a college paper, where most of the students do not happen to be
rich, seems like dropping a bomb in a sewing bee, at least it could not cause more consternation and resentment.

Such a doctrine would fit perfectly into the old caste system, where only land-holding nobles were gentlemen and nobody but
nobles could hold land. In those days the most that a peasant could hope for was to cultivate land for
his lord and master. A son could do nothing but follow in the footsteps of his sire.

If it were true that only rich students had a chance of making a success in a profession, then the
country would be wasting thousands of dollars in the maintenance of medical and law schools, because rich students could afford
to...

THE DAVIDSONIAN

April 25, 1929

Cosmic Chaos
By J. W. McCutchan

Various Senators and Congressmen still attack, and bitterly, the personal opinions of their fellow officials. Especially do they attack one
another on the grounds of religion and prohibition. A religious argument is a bad one to start for several reasons.
Arguments have been known to grow into wars, and religious wars are the most terrible of the species. One only
has to recall the struggles in Europe which centered about the massacre of St. Bartholomew's Day. To illustrate this, an
Arab may appear dormant, lazy, indolent, but place him in a fight against the “dogs of unbelievers” and there was
never a more enthusiastic fanatic. But at that, our representatives in the legislative halls of the nation receive rather large
pay for the privilege of maligning one another’s character for personal reasons. It is true that the “bloody times” of
Jim Reed, and Henry Cabot Lodge, have gone, but they will never be forgotten. Perhaps Heflin and Blease will take
their places with ardor.

It is generally admitted that General Maxime Weygand, formerly First Aide to Marshal Foch, will assume the baton of the
Marshal of France, the greatest military honor which that country can offer. He steps to a position which has long
been filled by the most illustrious, tactical leaders of all time. General Petain, and “Pappa” Joffre were given the honorary
title during the World War. But look farther back to the days of Napoleon, Ney and others. There were men
who spread the glory of the fleur-de-lis until it encompassed Continental Europe. Even D’Artagnan was offered the baton in “The
Man of the Iron Mask.” Oh, well, give us a few Legion of Honors, and Croix de Guerres, s'il vous
plait.

“D. A. R. Election is Chief Topic at Washington” proved to be a rather startling headline the other day, in
lieu of the fact that the building there was once pointed out to a visitor of the capital as being
the scene of more bloodshed than took place in the entire Revolution. Perhaps it was a poor pun on a
worthy organization, but the fact remains that with its present system of requirements for membership its exclusiveness will not be
maintained. In a couple of hundreds of years, most anyone will be able to join through one of her forty-seven
thousand and some odd hundred great to the nth power grandparents.

News comes from Staunton, Va., that furniture workers have gone on a strike, following the example set by textile laborers.
Red agitators should be effectively disposed of as was Eugene Debs, who perhaps is the only man who was ever
nominated for President while serving a term in the Federal Penitentiary. But what may we ask, will the striking textile
workers sit on, if the furniture business “faws down and goes boom?”

Despite rather regular cries of the expedition of English justice, and despite regular deplorement of American efficiency, the fact remains
that justice generally has its way. There were many who were aghast when Leopold and Loeb were committed to the
insane asylum. They are still there. Hickman, most repulsive of humans, met his fate after a sensational fight by a
young lawyer. To cap the climax it has been ruled by the supreme court that Harry F. Sinclair, oil magnate,
must serve his ninety days in jail. Money may not mean everything after all but we bet that he gets
his “two fors” every day.

Menacing murmurings come from the Charlotte News. So there is a Communist Club here is there? Well-I-1, (as Uncle Josh
Billings would say) we'd like to meet yer. In accordance with sup...go to private institutions. Fortunately, Mr. Darrow’s advice, though
probably given with the best of intentions, will not be followed because it sounds like the philosophy of a pessimist.
As products of the twentieth century, young people prefer to point with pride to Lincoln, Hoover, and other famous American
personages who have succeeded in spite of the fact that they did not start out rich—Daily Nebraskan.

Current Comment
By John Brown

WANTON WILES
By Bill Ragin

It is announced that the cost of Federal Prohibition Enforcement in terms of human life is 190 dead from violent
causes in nine years. Of these, 55 were Federal agents and 135 suspected law violators. These figures do not include
those killed in State enforcement. The policy of shooting to enforce the prohibition law has been severely criticized on the
grounds that it is too drastic, but it seems that if we are to have any enforcement at all, drastic
measures must be taken.

Cal Coolidge and Al Smith are now in civilian competition. Coolidge was recently made director of the New York Life
Insurance Co., and Smith was made director of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. The two companies operate in keen competition
with each other.

But after all, Chicago gangsters are doing more than anyone else to eliminate Chicago gangsters, says the Florence Herald.

Uncle Sam has taken steps to see that the Mexican War doesn’t stray over into United States territory. Orders have
been given to the 18 American Army planes patrolling the border in the vicinity of Naco, Arizona, to attack any
Mexican planes which fly over U.S. territory.

The S. S. Leviathan recently passed to private ownership when it was sold for $4,000,000. The new management expects to
keep an open bar on all trips when outside the 12-mile limit. The reason for this is because it brings
increased business to the ship.

Canada doesn’t seem to appreciate the high-handed attitude of the U.S. Radio Commission, because of its none too liberal assignment
of waves to Canadian stations. Canada therefore threatens to take any wave lengths they choose, regardless of the chaotic confusion
it would cause in the United States.

An interesting sporting article from London recently stated that the Lakeland foxes, which have been made desperately hungry by the
prolonged frosts, made a raid on the foxhound kennels at Ullswater in an attempt to pick up some scraps of
food.

In West Africa flying has developed to such a large extent that travelers along the coast can now make a
former three-day trip in four hours and forty minutes. The Gold Coast now has three good aerodromes.

There have been complaints that the U.S. stamps don’t stick like they used to. So last week the Bureau of
Standards stuck 700 stamps to envelopes, placed them on a barrel, and turned it by electricity until the edges of
the envelopes were worn away. Not a single stamp left its envelope.

FIVE MOST IMPORTANT MEN OF ITALY
Benito Mussolini.
Benito Mussolini.
Benito Mussolini.
Benito Mussolini.
Benito Mussolini.

An instrument has been perfected that will throw the voice of a speaker a mile. Now for one that will
throw the speaker that far.

PERFECTLY SIMPLE
How was he to extricate himself gracefully from the affair? he wondered all the night long. The next evening, however,
he met her prepared with a yarn of the most ingenious invention. “I think you should know,” she began before
he had an opportunity of launching the subject, “I’m going to be married tomorrow.”

Gaffin: I’m getting bald-headed from worrying.
Inquiring friend: Then why do you worry?
Gaffin: Because I’m getting bald-headed.—Univ. Student.

“Use Lon Chaney in a sentence.”
“I don’t eat pork for Lon Chaney more.”—Ex.

Supposedly authentic press reports, “it is feared that the public has pictured the local campus agleam with red flags which
wave merrily in the breezes of the gas from various sources. Regardless of the natural hope for scandal it must
be said that about the only serious indication is the modest display, occasionally, of one or two bandanna handkerchiefs. The
campus stands staunch for the Red and Black, but these colors are entirely suitable.

PROEM
A new victim has been chosen, or rather sucked in, to be sacrificed on the altar of the great god,
Bull. The crime was committed in this way. It was one of those beautiful spring days which occur between our
rainy seasons, so I was strolling across the campus, enjoying nature and beaming on all mankind. Suddenly, who should show
up but our well-known editor. He had a nasty look in his eye, and I was sore afraid. However, I
continued on to meet my fate.

“Hail!” sez he.
“Waes hael!” I snap back, showing him that I know the old Anglo-Saxon custom.
“You're just about to write a column,” sez he.
“Sir!” sez I, and about that time I sold out. Well, to make a long, sad story short, when they
called the cops, I’d promised to write this mess. This all goes to show that I’m not inflicting this with
any premeditated malice in my heart. Selah.

Antique furniture is much more valuable than the modern variety, so why shouldn't jokes be valued by the same method?
With this thought in mind, gentle reader (if any), you'll see the astounding worth of this space filler. The following
cracks are offered with apologies to “Boob” McNutt!

“I’m on the track,” said the detective as he watched the train approach.

Son: “I’ve come to confess, Dad. I kissed a pretty flapper.”
Father: “And how many times have you committed this great sin?”
Son: “I came to confess, not brag.”

Nowadays if a man falls by the wayside the chances are he was a pedestrian.

He was seated in the parlor
And he said unto the light:
“Either you or I, old fellow,
Will be turned down tonight.”

“What’s that on your neck?”
“A mole.”
“Well, it’s walking.”

JUST SCOTCH
A Scotchman, evidently a newcomer to the city of Detroit, has been seen wandering around on the streets with a
wrinkled pair of trousers under his arm.
Citizen of Detroit: “Come, my young fellow, is there any information I can give you about our city?”
Scotchman: “No, not exactly, but I’ve been looking for the Detroit Free Press.”

A watchmaker’s advertisement is a timely announcement.

Contemporary Thought

COLLEGIATE, COLLEGIATE
The raucous jazz notes of “Collegiate, Collegiate, yes we are collegiate” have penetrated the awful and silent depths of the
dean’s office. It is not a welcome tune, and something ought to be done about it. So at the next
convention of deans in April the words will be revised to read “Yes, but are we collegiate?” Something may eventually
be done about it. In the meantime, a questionnaire. Dean Henry Grattan Doyle of George Washington University has sent one
to four hundred deans. He asks, among many questions:

Is neatness in appearance, as evidenced by clean shaving, well-shined shoes, starched linen, appropriate neckties of neat appearance and well-pressed
suits of clothing, typical of your student body? Or, in the main, does the psychological attitude of your student body
approve of slouchy and careless habits of dress and conduct or neat habits of dress and courteous manners?

It does not require a very keen mind to predict what the answer to that will be. Already the reassuring
replies are coming back. From Wesleyan: “The present generation of students here, as I look upon them, are well-dressed, well-behaved,
a very different type from what we had twenty-five years ago... Speaking in general of the morals of the community,
I feel perfectly sure that they are on a higher plane than they have ever been...”

We have a pretty strong conviction that Dean Doyle will be able to report at the convention that on the
word of 390 deans this generation is the best yet. (The one exception will be Harvard, which has already refused
to answer the questions.) But aren't the deans waking up to the collegiate menace two or three years late? Collegiatism
is dying out in the colleges, though it will linger on in remote colleges, in front of drugstores, and on
vaudeville platforms for a long while. There is something of romantic excess in the collegiate costume that is out of
key with these prosaic times. Bell-bottom trousers, un-anchored socks, and such-like are as much relics of the past as is
the fashion of carrying the American Mercury. (They read The New Yorker now).

The fearful dean should read any “What Young Men Are Wearing” column in the magazines that cater to college youth.
There college men are being told that a neat conservative appearance is a “valuable asset” and that “anyone in the
business world who hopes to make good is lost without it.” The greater manufacturers depict in full-page ads the terrible
tragedies that befall those who have no “Sox Appeal” and the Arrow collar people are out gunning for the informal
roll-collared shirt of the out-of-style “drugstore cowboy.” Even the coonskin coat is passing. Other times, other manners. The collegiate mode
is passing out. The reason it is going is the reason why all fashions change. The hoi polloi, drug clerks,
and farm hands have caught up with it. The next job for college men is to create a new fashion.
Otherwise, the four years would be wasted, and there would be no way to distinguish between those who have had
the privilege of a college education and those who have not.

POUND’S PLAN
Appalling as is the amount of time wasted by unessential or unorganized reading in college to help the student find
an ordered plan in the mighty maze of literature. Ezra Pound in a recent issue of “Books” of the New
York Herald-Tribune gives the students the benefit of his own experience in reading.

“Literary instruction in our institutions of learning was at the beginning of this century, cumbrous and inefficient. I dare say
it still is. Certain more or less mildly exceptional professors were affected by the ‘beauties’ of various authors (usually deceased)
but the system, as a whole, lacked sense and co-ordination, I dare say it still does. But when studying physics
we are not asked to investigate the biographies of all the disciples of Newton who showed interest in science, but
who failed to make any discovery. Neither their unrewarded gropings, hopes, passions, laundry bills, or erotic experiences are thrust on
the hurried student or considered germane to the subject.”

Mr. Pound would have the student read those books which make some epochal contribution to literature. He says: “And we
could, presumably, apply to the study of literature a little of the commonsense that we currently apply to physics or
to biology. In poetry there are simple procedures, and there are known discoveries, clearly marked. As I have said in
various places in my as yet unorganized and fragmentary volumes: in each age one or two men of genius find
something, and express it. It may be in only a line or in two lines, or in some quality of
a cadence; and thereafter two dozen, or two hundred, or two or more thousand followers repeat, and dilute and modify.

“And if the instructor would select his specimens from works that contain these discoveries and solely on the basis of
discovery—which may lie in the dimension of depth, not merely of some novelty on the surface—he would aid his student
far more than by presenting his authors at random, and talking about them in tot.”
