March 27, 1929 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

The following were visitors at house parties during the past weekend:

Kappa Sigma
Misses Nancy Terry and Julia Marsh, Salem College; Kathleen Carter, Converse; Lillian Kindall, Charlotte; Dot Cunningham, Columbia; Ida Allison and
Dolly Moore, Charlotte; Roberta Hansell, Atlanta; Nancy Moore, Gastonia. Among the other visitors at the chapter house were: Bud Pickett,
High Point; Walter Crouch, High Point; Tom Reading, Ashboro.

Kappa Alpha
Misses Virginia Miller, Greensboro; Anne Fayssoux “D” Hall, Queens; Nancy MacFie, Converse; Mary McNinch, Sarah Spratt, Jean Marion, Edith Cochran,
Evelyn Wagner, Charlotte; Moffett Johnson, and Susan Moffett, Davidson; Catherine Colbert, Fayetteville. Other visitors were: Dick Marshall, Brandon Smith, '27;
Joe McConnell, '27; Spencer MacFie.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Misses Edna Bennett, Wadesboro; Anne McLaurine, Charlotte; Alice Boggs, Charlotte; Lib Fraley, Statesville; Helen Brawley, Statesville; Louise McLeod, Maxton; Mary
Watkins, South Bristol, Va.; “Tine” Thompson, Dunn; Mary Lee Lindsay, Taylorsville; Mary Anderson Craig, Charlotte; Polly Aiken, Richmond. Other visitors:
Ralph Falls; Cicero Gaither; “Bub” Patterson; Joe Bosdick.

Beta Theta Pi
Misses Martha Ray Cabaniss, Charlotte; Catherine Tulkee, Charlotte; Mary MacMillan, Oberlin, Ohio; Mrs. Mary MacMillan, Oberlin, Ohio; Catherine Moriarty, Knoxville;
Doris Thompson, Charlotte; Elizabeth Hendritze, Hollins.

Theta Upsilon Omega
Misses Evelyn Josephs and Julia Josephs, Charlotte; Martha Henderson, N. C. C. W.; Ellen Hawkins, Queens; Virginia Hoey, Shelby; “Pat”
Summersett, Brenau. Other visitors were: R. H. Ratchford, '27; G. S. Brooks, '28; R. S. Lowrance, '28; H. Y. Harper,
'20; W. W. Smith, '28.

Pyramid
Misses Elizabeth Kirby and Ruth Lane Strikeleather, Converse; Kathleen Hollingsworth, Queens; Patsy Ruth Miller, Sedgefield; Louisa Ellen Jordan, Jonesboro, Ga.;
Sally Crouch; Emma Cothran, Kate Caldwell, Charlotte. Others visiting over the weekend were: B. W. McAuley, Frank Norral, Jr., John
Thompson, John Parks of Chapel Hill.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Misses Kathleen Gibson, Laurinburg; Frances Shute, Converse; Carolyn Highsmith, N. C. C. W.; Sally Mixson, Columbia, S. C.; Elise Cross,
Greenville, S. C.; Mary Hill Cowan, Rebecca McGarrity, Catherine Stokes, Elizabeth Patterson, Louise Fuller, Charlotte; Eleanor Powell, Lumberton.

Seniors Would Choose Dr. Lacy as President
Questionnaire Reveals Preference of Fourth Year Men
Fieldhouse or Gym Needed
Philosophy and Accounting Considered Most Valuable Subjects—Public Speaking and Education in Ill Light

Were Davidson Seniors given the opportunity of selecting the next president of the College, Dr. Ben R. Lacy, president of
Union Seminary, Richmond, Va., would be the man, if they are to be judged by their preference as indicated in
a questionnaire which they recently filled out at the request of the staff of The Davidsonian. Dr. Lacy’s rival in
the seniors’ eyes was Dr. Taliaferro Thompson, Union Seminary, who was almost as popular, lacking only one vote.

This series of questions submitted to the Class of 1929 brought forth many interesting replies in regard to their own
personal preferences concerning Davidson as well as in the fields of world affairs, literature, and so on. The response, approximately
one-third, was considered very good and, in the opinion of many, is typical of the entire body.

Following Dr. Thompson as a preference for Davidson president came F. L. Jackson, Dr. J. C. Rowan, S. Clay Williams,
and Dr. Walter Lingle, in the order named.

Seniors were asked to name their favorite world figure, and some, interpreting literally, gave Colonel Charles Lindbergh, who won first
place, a good race with Joan Crawford. Benito Mussolini was popular for the nomination but was not sufficiently strong to
crowd the leader. Other celebrities, and near celebrities, were Calvin Coolidge, John W. Davis, Herbert Hoover, Edison, Einstein, H. R.
H. the Prince of Wales, Will Rogers, Gandhi, and Owen D. Young.

Jean Valjean won over D’Artagnan as the choice of characters in fiction even though Douglas Fairbanks had so recently played
the latter at the local theater in “The Iron Mask.” Philo Vance ran well indeed but had not enough historical
background, perhaps, to capture first place. Tom Jones, Don Quixote, and Romeo were popular figures with the seniors. Among others
mentioned were Sir William Blakeney, King Arthur, Hawkeye, Scattergood Baines, Ivanhoe, Huck Finn, and Oliver Twist.

Southern sons were decided in their choice of Robert E. Lee over Napoleon and Woodrow Wilson, even though the latter’s
attendance at Davidson might have been expected to garner enough votes to put him across. Alexander the Great, LaFayette, George
Washington, and Livingstone also ran.

“The Count of Monte Cristo” and “A Tale of Two Cities” were almost as popular as “Les Miserables” but the
latter seemed to link up with Jean Valjean to win the vote. “Ivanhoe,” “Mare Nostrum,” “The Talisman,” and “Don Quixote”
were favorites.

Alexander Dumas was barely the preference over Charles Dickens as prose authors even though his D’Artagnan was mentioned as a
favorite character. Following these were Scott, Sherwood Anderson, S. S. Van Dine, Victor Hugo, and Cervantes.

Gray's “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard” was a clear choice over “Rabbi Ben Ezra” and “Crossing the Bar.” “Pippa
Passes,” “Saul,” and “Adonais” were mentioned. The Victorian Period fosters the most popular poets in Browning and Tennyson. Wordsworth, Shelley,
Gray, and Poe were preferred by some. Kipling and Keats were next in order.

Decidedly Democratic is the class by a vote of almost 10-1 over the Republican party. One Socialist, in theory but
hardly in reality, dared make known his choice. Another overwhelming vote was in the 5-1 preference of a Phi Beta
Kappa Key to a Major D earned in athletics. The large number of members of the scholastic order in the
class, they point out, testifies to their standard of values.

Princeton, had a number of fourth-year men not come here, would probably be preparing to give them diplomas this Spring.
Washington and Lee was popular, being next in line, with North Carolina third. Vanderbilt, N.C. State, and Duke polled some
votes. Some Seniors, probably interested in the gentle art of wooing, indicated Converse and N. C. C. W. as a
second choice.

There was a stiff race between the practical members of the class and their idealistic brothers when Accounting nosed Philosophy
out as the most valuable subject which they had studied. History, Law, Psychology, R. O. T. C., and Biology were
believed most valuable in the order named. Voting with a vengeance, they gave the lily to Public Speaking as the
least valuable course which they had sat through, with Education trailing by a lone vote. Also believed of little value
were Math, Physiology, and Hygiene. The fact that Public Speaking, Frosh Math, and P. & H. are required courses accounts
for their lack of popularity, some believe.

Better provision for athletic endeavor was the overwhelming choice when asked what additional equipment was most needed. Some said a
gymnasium, others a field house, and others a swimming pool. By their statements, they indicate that the need which is
foremost is in this line. A new Chemistry laboratory, a Y Social Center, and better dormitories were next in line.

Most of the seniors favored an increased enrollment to the point of about 1,000. Many thought 800 would be sufficient
while 650 drew the next largest number of votes. The range was 600 to 1,250.By a vote of over 2-1,
the respondents believed that they would choose Davidson again if they were in prep school and knew all that they
now know of the college. Many who answered negatively did not renege when asked what other college, considering Davidson as
their first choice, they would prefer. Neither did they insinuate by their answers whether they chose the college or whether
someone else did the choosing in the first instance. Varied were the answers to the final question on the blank;
but enough indicated in one way or another that they considered the friendships formed as the greatest benefit of their
four years spent here. “The Davidson Spirit” was considered as a valuable addition to their lives by a number. Something
called “Knowledge” was believed by another group to be the greatest acquisition. Other expressions were, “broadened outlook,” “the ability to
associate with others,” “greater regard for people in general,” “the ability to look out for myself,” “influences for character development,”
and one cynical being believes “four years of love” constituted his greatest benefit derived.

Deputation of Seven Men Go to Lexington
Speakers Conduct Various Services Over Week-End Under Y. M. C. A.

Seven men went to Lexington, N.C., last Saturday to take part in and conduct various church and civic activities of
the city. Mac King and Whit Middleton were the speakers at a large banquet given Saturday night. Practically all of
the men were given Sunday school classes which they conducted, and at the church service following, Monroe Gilmer spoke. That
afternoon, Sam Brown and Frank Hall were speakers at a union meeting of all the Christian Endeavor Societies of the
city. Bill Archie gave vocal solos and led the group singing at the different meetings. On Monday morning, the deputation
conducted the chapel service at the Lexington High School where Walter Fraley spoke to the student body. Among other deputations
sent out over the week-end was one to North Wilkesboro where John Melton preached at the First Presbyterian Church at
the morning hour and Alex Warren spoke from the pulpit that night.

STATIONERY
Printed and Embossed
ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS
Aubrey Brown
Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

Prominent Speakers Booked for Vespers
New Officers of Y Will Also Be Installed

At the first “Y” vesper service after the holidays, April 7th, the recently elected officers for the coming year will
be installed. On the following Sunday, the Rev. Dr. Donald W. Richardson, F.S. of Christian Missions at Union Theological Seminary,
will speak. Dr. Richardson, a former missionary at Chinkiang and Nanking, China, will be at Davidson from April 14th through
the 16th, and will conduct a mission institute. He is an outstanding orator, and at his address last year before
the class of ‘28, he introduced one of the four leading pulpiteers of the Southern Presbyterian Church. In addition to
his talk at the vesper service and his mission classes, Dr. Richardson will speak to the classes in Bible, and
also will deliver an open address in Shearer Hall Tuesday night. Dr. Richardson is a graduate of Davidson, being a
prominent member of the class of 1902. The following is a list of his honors as found in the “Quips
and Cranks” of his senior year: Member of annual staff; president and secretary of Eumanean Literary Society; Winner of Review
Medal; debater’s medal; orator at commencement exercises in 1902; editor of Davidsonian, College Magazine; editor-in-chief of “Quips and Cranks”; Class
Monitor; Class Historian; Class President; second vice-president of Student Body; vice-president of Y.M.C.A.

Alumni Marriages
Kimzey-Sprinkle.
“Mr. and Mrs. B.F. Sprinkle announce the marriage of their daughter, Juanita, to William Patton Kimzey on Saturday, March 9,
at 5 o'clock.” Mr. Kimzey was graduated from Davidson College in the class of 1923. After leaving here, he attended
Cumberland Law School at Lebanon, Tenn., where he later graduated, and received his license to practice in both North Carolina
and Tennessee. He is connected with the law firm of Hamlin & Kimzey in Brevard, N.C.

Engagements
Withers-Harris.
“Mrs. Benjamin Withers announces the engagement of her daughter, Bennie, to Samuel Caldwell Harris, of Philadelphia.” The wedding will take
place in Charlotte in April and will be a quiet affair. Mr. Harris was graduated from Davidson College in the
class of 1917. After serving one year in the aviation service of the United States Army, he has been connected
with business concerns in Wilmington, Del., New York, and Charlotte, and is now located in Philadelphia.

Senior Preferences
Questionnaires recently submitted to members of the Senior Class by The Davidsonian reveal answers as follows:
1. Favorite world figure today — LINDBERGH.
2. Favorite character in fiction — JEAN VALJEAN. In history — ROBERT E. LEE.
3. Favorite novel — LES MISERABLES. Prose Author — DUMAS. Poem — GRAY’S ELEGY. POET — BROWNING.
4. Political party having preference — DEMOCRATIC.
5. Prefer Phi Beta Kappa key or Major D — the KEY.
6. College, other than Davidson, having preference — PRINCETON.
7. Most valuable subject studied while here — ACCOUNTING. Least valuable — PUBLIC SPEAKING and EDUCATION.
8. Davidson's greatest physical equipment need — ADEQUATE GYMNASIUM.
9. Choice as next president of Davidson — DR. BEN. R. LACY.
10. Enrollment limit which Davidson should have — 1,000.

Interesting Group
The following answers were submitted by one man:
1. Favorite world figure today — Joan Crawford, I’m afraid.
2. Favorite character in fiction — No decided preference. In history — Ibid.
3. Favorite novel — An American Tragedy. Prose Author — Theodore Dreiser and Jim Tully. Poem — Pippa Passes. Poet
— Browning and Dorothy Parker.
4. Political party having preference — Democratic.
5. Prefer Phi Beta Kappa key or Major D — Phi Beta, but I couldn’t be bothered about either.
6. College, other than Davidson, having preference — W. & L.
7. Most valuable subject studied while here — Contemporary Drama and Abnormal Psychology. Least — Education.
8. Davidson’s greatest physical equipment need — In order named, 1. Better dormitories. 2. Infirmary. 3. Church.
9. Choice as next president of Davidson — Dr. J.C. Rowan.
10. Enrollment limit which Davidson should have — 600.
11. If in prep school now, and having present knowledge of Davidson, would it be your choice as Alma Mater?
— Yes.
12. Greatest thing gained at Davidson — Indifference, and a slight, very slight, sophistication.

One way to trap a beaver
Not everybody in the Hudson’s Bay Company was a trapper, any more than everybody in the Bell System is a
telephone engineer. The Hudson’s Bay people trapped a good many beavers in the company offices, where the skillful financing and
careful business management served to back up the men actually on the front lines. Organized activity succeeded then just as
it does today. The men who put up telephone lines can work the better because back of them are other
men who painstakingly design and make their equipment, and still other men who correlate all these activities into a smoothly
meshing plan.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones
“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN”
