THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly
“For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the College Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

ZEB V. LONG, Jr. Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. B. BLACK Managing Editor
W. McCUTCHEON Managing Editor
G. P. GUNTER Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Athletic Editor
J. O. CRESTON Feature Editor
S. A. BROWN Feature Editor
C. M. PRATT Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. A. CANNON Asst. Bus. Mgr.
L. L. BOYD Subscription Mgr.
A. J. BAKER Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY Solicitor
J. H. MORRISON Solicitor
J. E. MANNING Solicitor
J. E. RUFF Solicitor
J. T. TRASER Solicitor

President W. C. RY
Vice-President P. M. MIDDLETON
Secretary-Treasurer C. G. PEPPER
J. C. MATTHEWS
J. G. DUNKLIN
D. G. MARTIN
W. S. LEA
J. R. SMITH
C. W. F. SPENCER
D. O. STEPHENSON
W. T. HANCOCK
JOHN M. BROWN
G. P. PARDINGTON

NOVEMBER 16, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

—Joins in extending heartiest greetings to alumni, friends, and students on this Home-Coming Day of 1929.
—Trusts that you will find real happiness during your stay on the campus.
—Is all set for a scrap to the finish this afternoon, and knows that the Wildcats will display all their old-time fight.
—Thinks Chuck Collins will need all the reserves he’s got before today’s game is over.
—Urges students to attend all Home-Coming exercises, for they'll be worthwhile.
—Reminds you of the best Stunt Night ever—to-night in the new auditorium.
—Was mighty glad to chalk up that 13-0 win over State’s Wolfpack.
—Predicts a fine battle with Duke University here Thanksgiving Day.

A REAL HOME-COMING

Home-Coming Day! Davidson opens her arms today to welcome a host of alumni and friends who return for the renewal of old ties and for a face-to-face contact with the college. They are welcome, every one of them from the oldest grad to the youngest lad, who someday may take his place in the processions which pass along the leafy walks of Davidson. Let there be a spirit of brotherhood abroad on this day when so many people come together for a common purpose, when so many people are together with the same feelings, with the same hopes. Davidson recognizes her great debt to her alumni, appreciates the interest of her friends, and offers them all that is hers. May the bonds of association which have survived the tests of time grow stronger because of Davidson’s Home-Coming program. Alumni, friends, students, welcome all to a real Home-Coming.

The years sometimes dim the memory of faces, of things which happened in classrooms, and certainly of many facts absorbed from books, but here and there an incident remains which is typical of college life as one student knew it, and over all hovers in an unforgettable vision the spirit of the old school. Few men lose their affection for Davidson because the gift from the college of worthwhile things was so tremendous, and the influence of ideals gained here was so fine in future life. Returning to this campus after years of other associations and environments must be like a tonic to the alumnus. He drinks in a deep breath of the happiest days of his life, and he goes away refreshed and strengthened in spirit.

Past Home-Coming Days have been splendid in their execution and in their result. Each year has seen an increasing number of visitors, and a corresponding growth of interest. Davidson’s Home-Coming does not depend on a football game to assure the success of the occasion. The game, while a vital part of the day’s program, is blended with the life of the college in such a way that the returning alumnus can find more than just a game. He sees spread before him a panorama of the New Davidson, is able to get a comprehensive view of the things which interest him most. No other college can surpass Davidson in the variety or in the efficiency of her Home-Coming exercises, and we believe that visitors to the campus will soon have this fact impressed upon them. So Davidson’s welcome goes out to you—her native sons—her faithful supporters. May you see in the college the traits you want most to find there, and may your hands be as willing to further her interests as she is to greet you back on this another Home-Coming Day.

WELCOME from DAVIDSON to YOU!

THE STUDENT’S PART

The program of the day, from morning exercises in Chambers Auditorium to Stunt Entertainment tonight, will be a very full one. There will be few breathing spells for the interested spectator who is desirous of making it a full day of college activity. Every student of the college should be one of these interested spectators as far as possible, for the occasion is such as to demand co-operation from all. Hundreds of alumni have returned to Davidson on this day. They have forsaken work and care for a day in order that the atmosphere of college might once again enshroud them, and they have come back hoping to see a real cross-section of student life. If they are to realize this wish, it is necessary that every exercise of the day be permeated with student spirit and, what is more essential, student presence. It goes without saying that every person in college will be sitting right there in the bleachers when the opening kick-off sails through the ozone this afternoon, but we wonder how many will be sitting in the Auditorium this morning when the Home-Coming exercises proper begin. It won’t be too much trouble for the students to lend their aid to all sides of the affair, and the resultant feeling of alumni and others over seeing the students really showing interest in their Home-Coming will make them want to return in future years. Another little thought which might be of value at a time like this arises from the consideration of courtesy. Let’s be on our toes to make the courtesy we proudly vaunt as a Davidson tradition a living thing today. Leave everybody feeling that real interest is here for them, and Home-Coming will be a long way on the path of true success. The students have more opportunity, and to be truthful, more obligation in this day’s work than any other body. Make the most of it, men.

CAROLINA’S MEN OF MIGHT

Seldom have Davidson fans had the privilege of watching in action such a team as Carolina boasts today, certainly not for years, and we are almost willing to go on record by calling the present edition of the Tar Heels the greatest gridiron combination ever to sport its wares on the local field. No matter what the Heels do this afternoon when they lock horns with Monk Younger’s Wildcats, their marvelous record of the current season cannot be overlooked. Supporters of North Carolina teams have been complaining a long time because they felt that Tar Heel football was falling below the standard set by other southern institutions. They howled for bigger and better men, for better coaching, for better spirit. This fall seems to have fulfilled every hope, with the sole exception of a victory over Georgia, and the loss of that game to a better team is questioned by most authorities. The cohorts of Coach Collins will stack up against any team in the country with credit. Without doubt, Carolina has come close to the peak this year, and tribute must be paid her for a truly great football machine. We wish the visiting team success today in everything except the game on Richardson Field, and lest that wish seem a bit foolish in view of the fact that the game is the main object of the Tar Heel’s visit, we change our statement to extend a cordial greeting to the football squad from the University of North Carolina, and to hope that relations between the two institutions may ever remain as splendid as they have been in past years.

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

The life of a columnist can hardly be likened unto that of an imaginary Utopia. The painful duty hangs over the unfortunate victim, until at the usual period of each week a feeling is entertained which has oft been referred to as the "Olde Time Hange-Over.” Nevertheless, laying aside the attempted jests of the hour, this column intends to prove that at times at least it can pretend to be serious. But the connotation is not mournful. That old adage, “HistoryHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Repeats itself," has never "been more forcefully brought to the minds of the public than it was last Monday. In rightful celebration of the Armistice of the World War, lengthy speeches were made on the subject of World Peace. Scarcely more than eleven years have elapsed since that document was signed. In Biblical narration, the people remarked if there was peace for even four or five years. Big nations require breathing periods as well as little ones. This column does not intend to impeach on the rights of one, Arthur Brisbane. Yet, it feels that the subject of aviation and its propagation is one which the entire country could involve itself with profit. Aviation, in the long run, has been the butt of a rather raw joke at the hands of the press. Each day the headlines are filled with news of the disastrous air adventures, of the failing and death of aviators and aviatrices. Scarce mention is made of the sturdy planes and pilots which carry the Air Mail, or of the commercial planes that fly on regular schedule. Prophecy is not a specialty of this column, but several students will be disappointed if a neat red and silver biplane does not soar above the contesting teams this afternoon. More than one person in the stadium will envy the pilot his point of vantage. P. A. Sherman, painfully hurt in a train wreck, served his country well in flagging two onrushing passenger trains of the Southern Railroad. Putting his own comfort and family next to the duty that faced him, he undoubtedly saved hundreds of lives. Plenty of men have flagged "Black Diamond Limiteds," but few of them have so troubled themselves after they were hurt in an accident on the same system. It seems that we have some report about the farmer who was uncertain as to the value of his cow, until he made certain whether his caller was an accident insurance man, or the railroad claim agent. Stocks continue to fall as little men scamper from the dangerous path. There is only one ruler of Wall Street and that is capital. The speculator, the lamb, the bear, the wolf; all must eventually bow before their unwelcome master. But this column recognizes that the stock market directly affects few local students. However, don’t sell America or Davidson short! It is not our purpose to instill pep into the student and visitors here this afternoon. The students already have it; the visitors should have it by the time the game starts. But from the reasoning standpoint there are a few facts.

TO BUM OR NOT TO BUM

Clemson College has ordered that none of Clemson’s student body can get on the roads and hitchhike in any manner. To strengthen the mandate officials have asked parents to aid in the matter by signing papers to the effect that little Johnnie will not bum rides with the elder’s consent. If the students disobey, they court trouble. Just as Carolina has the distinction of being the first college to install the honor system, so can Clemson boast of the distinction of leading the way with a non-bumming student body. What a mark for other colleges and universities to shoot at? What prestige and publicity will roll in that direction when news of the radical orders quickly spread to other sections. What were once happy Sundays spent with those at home are now nothing more than lonely nights for the students. His idle moments of the weekend can now be spent in the happy confines of his Alma Mater. No more will carefree and joyous youth burst upon those at home with the happy remarks, "I bummed home, and it didn’t cost a penny." Dad will have to dip deep into his jeans now and produce the necessary amount for railroad fare if he wishes to shake his son’s hand on the weekend. The Gamecock cannot say whether this is a wise move on the part of Clemson or not, for time will have to settle that, but it does not believe that the authorities can enforce such a ruling. How can they?—S. C. Gamecock.

Smokehouse Saga
By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weekly)

It may be a mystery to many how this column continues to run in a paper that is supposed to be a sane and normal student body. However, while I’m on the word "mystery," how would a good, hot, fast, warm, slick mystery story suit you all? Oh well, I should worry. I’ll write this story right off "The Bat."

THE HOBBLING HORROR

The night was dark and dreary (as all the nights in mystery stories seem to be) and the fog was so thick that you could cut it with a knife (that is, if you had a knife handy and really liked sliced fog). The haunted mansion was situated in a huddled heap on a lonely hill surrounded by tall, dark, silent elms (you know the tall, dark, silent type). In the midst of the night, two lonely knights of the road, Athelstane and Idler, and Leopold and Loafer, entered this domicile of the doomed to seek shelter from the aforesaid dark and dreary night. Soon after they had entered, they began to notice the sinister appearance of the building and commenced to wonder if they had acted wisely in coming there. "Dog-gone," said Leopold, "I'll bet this place is haunted." "Aw gwan," replied Athelstane, "There aren’t any such things as ghosts. That is," he added, as a few dozen ghosts flitted about the room, "My Mama said that there weren't." "I wonder," said Leopold reflectively, "If your Mama ever lied to you." "Well, no nameless horror is going to prevent me from getting my regular eight hours of sleep," declared Athelstane stoutly (he was just a stylish stout), "Let’s hit the proverbial hay." So Leo and Athy set out in search of some hay to hit. They entered the next room and what should they see but two comfortable looking beds! They were on the verge of getting their much-needed beauty sleep when Leo spied a couple of two-bit pieces in this bed. "Say," he quavered, "What’s this money doing here?" "Oh, they’re just the sleeping quarters," replied Athy calmly, "Shut up and go to sleep!" But the Fates had not decreed that this should come to pass. Suddenly, a blood-curdling shriek arose in the next room. "Who’s in there?" shouted Athy rather unsteadily. "Oh, it ain’t nobody but us horrors," came the reply. "Well, pipe down and let me sleep," cried our hero. At this crucial period, a trap door sprang open, and a very dead corpse was flung into the room. "Who flang that carcass?" howled Leo, who objected very violently to visitors. He got up to examine the new roommate and found the following note fastened to the poor ole corpse: "The Scawpiun has struck!" At this, Leo cursed with awful swear-words, "So the horrid old meany has struck, has he? Now we'll have to call out the strike breakers." Meanwhile, Athy had been puttering around the room and by solving the combination (and also using nitro-glycerin), had opened a secret door and found a little packet containing a quantity of jewels. "Oh, look what I’ve found," he chortled. "Aw, put ’em up and let’s go to sleep," snarled Leo. "You're just jealous," answered Athy, but nevertheless, he put them under his pillow and dealt the hay another vicious jab. Hereupon, the Scawpiun appeared in a cloud of sulphurous smoke. "Gimme them jools," he demanded. "What jools?" queried Athy with a becoming blush. "The Sears-Roebuck jools," snapped the Scawpiun. "Here, take ’em and vacate!" snarled Athy, as he slung the packet over with a neat inshoot, "and stop uttering those annoying shrieks." "Oh, that’s all right," cried the horrors in unison, "ain’t we sorry?" And they spread their wings and flitted away to Never Never Land. "Now let’s sleep," cried our heroes, and they did.

Which may be stated with safety. It is our opinion that, paying all due respect to Carolina’s great football machine, the Wildcats have more than a fighting chance to win. Carolina has one of its greatest teams in years; Davidson has spoken with previous engagements. Carolina has fallen before the cleverness of the Younger attack before; there is no sane reason why that familiar adage, quoted above in another paragraph, should not assert itself once more. And today! Tonight, after the battalion has drilled, after the speakers have spoken, the game has been played, Stunt Night has been re-enacted, handshakes have been given and received, another Homecoming Day has passed. This does not cease; another will come. Some friends have been greeted for the last time; others have just been formed. The writer of this column will, in all probability, view only one more occasion of this type from the "inside." We, who are in Davidson, welcome you who have been. With its surprises and its heartbreaks, the eleventh day of November, 1929, is among the souvenirs.