THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1929 | Collegiate Comment

FEATURES

On This and That

Music By Horace W. Elvin

ITS PRACTICALITY

Music culture in its large sense is the most liberal and humanistic of all studies, perhaps not even red by literature. Thus from this, it follows that there is no subject, not one, in the high school and college curriculums that should be taken by so large a proportion of students. About every young man and maiden should do something with it. The greatest of all functions of college music is to acquaint not only special but general students with a wide range of the best music, to ensure not only acquaintance with, but infection by, the great masterpieces of all lands and ages. —G STANLEY HALL.

People have always regarded music as an art and have been prone to associate it with such pursuits as painting, sculpturing, and the like. That is nothing amiss, for music is primarily an art. But it can be presented, too, in another aspect, namely as a science. That may be difficult to accept at first, but a short logical inquiry into the matter will reveal the truth involved. A musical selection is not just a fortuitous arrangement of chords; it is a premeditated and well-constructed composition after a set code of rules. A mere note recorded and supplemented by additional notes or chords will not comprise a piece. The composer is bound to take notice of particular rules in regard to the number of beats in a measure, tempo of the passage, effect of a major or minor key on the mood of a piece, important nuances of shading, and other accepted standards. There are many textbooks on music with theorems and problems, just as in mathematics or physics. Many abstruse treatises have been written on the subject, which are recondite to the layman. A virtuoso pianist can play a beautiful chord on his instrument, exactly correct in respect of musical laws; the layman will delight in but the playing of the chord, without knowing or dreaming that there has been any observance of rules. And yet the pianist has been guided by a standard of accepted laws of harmony and melody that govern his composing. He has for years been schooled in methods of harmonizing notes, of expressing his thoughts in music; he has been drilled in the technique of playing and interpreting the thoughts of other composers. In short, he has learned the “science” of music.

Technical though it is, however, music is not merely a science. It is more than that, for besides obeying certain laws, it is something spiritual which companions with people and engenders or increases in them a human sympathy. And if one would learn but the science of music and lose sight of its great human appeal, he is like a scientist who delights in formulas but never applies them to practical use. This human appeal we have just mentioned is, according to Daniel Gregory Mason, threefold. First, there is Sensuous, the appeal to the ear. We are soothed by the clear mellow tone of a cello or of a violin. Even animals are susceptible to this appeal. Second is Aesthetic, the appeal to the mind. The individual must perceive, must use his mind. He must see the shapeliness or beauty of music. Finally is Expressive, the appeal to emotions. Music, it has been well said, is the language of the emotions. And this appeal should be the greatest, the most personal of all.

If we were to request a place in a school curriculum for music, we should be imprudent to introduce it as an art. An art, we would be told, is to be studied and learned as a hobby and cannot be granted space in a curriculum of practical subjects. Perhaps we should meet with better success by applying to the department of science for the addition of a new course known as musology. The hindrance in modern institutions of learning, in this respect, seems to be that music is not recognized as having any practical value. In a facetious vein, we might be inclined to wonder that we spend considerable time in biological laboratory studying the internal anatomy of bugs and beetles, a great part of which we seldom if ever see (and certainly not their internal anatomies) and a small part of which we make occasional investments to exterminate; while the study of music, of which in after life we hear and enjoy a great part of its compositions, and the unheard and unenjoyed small part of which we do not bother to expunge from record—the study of music, we say, is passed over in school as but incidentally useful and of little practical value!

We are not so libertine as to advise the abolition of biological laboratory in college nor to advocate the installation of music as a major subject. But we do assert that a course in musical appreciation should be given a more prominent place in the curriculum, much the same as literature, and especially so since the radio has made music so important a factor in home life. For music affects the spiritual nature of man—it softens his temper and awakens his sympathies. Confucius was cognizant of this in saying, “When music and courtesy are better understood there will be no war.” It has often been pointed out that a great fault in our modern system of education is the lack of spiritual training. Science, language, and physical education are taught, but spiritual enlightenment, which in a broad sense embraces the finer things of life, including music, is allowed to deteriorate. If it be thought that music has no disciplinary effect on the mind, we can but refer to the words of Dr. Charles Eliot: “Music, rightly taught, is the best mind trainer on the list. We should have more practical subjects, like music and drawing, and less grammar and arithmetic.” If so great a mind as Doctor Eliot realized the high value of music and if such men as

STUDENTS, — ATTENTION!

For self-supporting students desiring fascinating, remunerative work either temporary or permanent, may I suggest that many students of both sexes have earned scholarships and cash sufficient to defray all college expenses, representing national magazine publishers. If interested, write or wire for details—M. A. Steele, National Organizer, 5 Columbus Circle, New York, N. Y.Confucius, Napoleon, and Woodrow Wilson recognized its practicalness, it seems entirely right that music should be given more attention in educational systems. STOP that COLD and COUGH take olde&x Che “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy for College Students, sold by a College Student YOUR DRUGGIST ll Jim Galloway HAS COLDEX U. of S.C. Nouvelle Evant-hier Know Davidson RES W; Paeans of achievement! Unsatisfactory renunciation of Fame! Collegiate inquiry; unadorned quests for truth. Life, death and fate; all these things on the pages of time. Glorious freedom; limitless hope; changing stars of ambition: these travel on the beams of the moon searching into the caves of darkness, unearthing happiness, time and all knowledge. Davidson College, old, strong, a fortress of life, blowing away in smoke, being rebuilt by the very stones that compose it, passing onward and onward toward those things which succeed generation after generation of man, to what future? To that future portrayed by past events; welded into that frame which fills the lives of many with great sadness and great hope; weaving that cape which falls upon man and men; knitting threads that bind the future closer to the past; laying cobblestones along “That road, which to discover we must travel, too.”

Scientific discovery is a zealous tendency in most lives; the need for finding things, trying experiments, satisfying curiosity is a need each man must fill in his own way; some investigate a thousand ways in which to say a single thought; some perfect that method of building which others have tried; many seek the principle of a geometric problem; others the expansion of mathematical equations. In 1896 there was made in Davidson the second X-ray picture ever to be photographed in the United States. The physics class had heard of the discovery of Röntgen rays and made an investigation of its principles. The picture was made on a Kodak plate and suffered a three-hour exposure after which a magnifying glass, an egg, one finger from the dissecting lab, a pin, a gun cartridge, and a few calomel tablets, all contained in a small box, were revealed to the astonished eyes of the young scientists. And to complete the work along this line, a professor in the Medical School here was the first man in our country to use the X-ray in finding a particle in the human body. His apparatus consisted of storage batteries, an induction coil, Crookes tube and a small hand fluoroscope.

Increased freedom along any line is a sure sign of progression; America’s freedom of speech, and of worship brought about a new era in the government of all worlds. The great tendency in education is the development of single personalities. Modern universities invite student opinion; student opinion invites thought and a careful regard for the rights of man. Davidson has seen great progression along these lines of greater dependence on the student. In 1876 no man was permitted to leave the campus in the morning, and no one was allowed to leave after the evening study bell. A trip to our beloved Mooresville would mean suspension; and a short while of repentance. Bumming was done by train; social fraternities were nil and the only societies were the literary ones. In the language of the dead, “de gustibus non disputandum est.”

I once saw an oil well catch fire and blaze up, burning the derrick above it to the ground, and I could not but see why Zoroaster should see in fire the epiphany of a great good. Fire at times is an instrument of destruction; a ghoul, haunting happiness; and again it may be a harbinger of kindness or a raging flame that burns away the bridges in the river of life. Satan sees in flame an evil thing, possibly; yet should he come here among us in the appearance of man, and feel the coldness of a winter night then fire would mean another thing to him. Fire is a cause and an effect and yet it is only a beginning. So when old Chambers was burned on the altar of progress the old college bell was melted and, broken, lying among the ashes of hopes from which sprang anew the phoenix of beauty. Students were for a while summoned to class by a small whistle in the Students Store, but such means of calling men to education was unsatisfactory and in 1922 a new bell was donated by a Charlotte man and dedicated to those who fell in the war. In its first ringing sang out the voices of the men who watch and wait and hope for those who tread the path in their footsteps.

Dry sands shift across endless stretches of mighty deserts. Black mules plod slowly onward; mules goaded by tiny marionettes. All are blind. The winds rail; the sands crash. The lowly mules cease their anguished labors; the powerless figures sink and die. Remorseful winds sweep and enfold the ghastly forms. And these things I understand. But these I cannot comprehend: The heedless moving of idle thought; the illegible, useless plodding of exuberant spirit; the incessant wail at the far call of death. Dark mists hover over these questionings and I am blind. But this I see clearly and in a bright light. The mountains move; the sands shift; and man dies. These all are clear.

FRIDAY NIGHT IS COLLEGE NIGHT

“So This Is College”

The COLLEGE Musical Comedy Riot Laughs, Songs, Cheers, Love, Campus Vamps, and Football Frenzies! The Finest, Funniest Pictures of the Talking, Singing, Dancing Screen! WITH ELLIOT NUGENT, CLIFF EDWARDS, and SALLY STARR Five New Collegiate Song Hits NOW PLAYING AT IMPERIAL THEATRE CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Sf-d ti 108 Pees and embossed Best Quality and Prices ANY TYPE OF PRINTING Earnest H. McCall Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. Charlotte, N. C.

MISS MINNIE SCOFIELD’S MONDAY AND TUESDAY NOV. 11th AND 12th JOHN V. HOWARD, Rep. CLOTHES TAILORED-TO-MEASURE HATS : HABERDASHERY : SHOES

THE STYLE CHARTS EMPLOYED IN THE FULL DRESS AND DINNER GARMENTS ARE THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THIS INSTITUTION AND EMBRACE THE VARIOUS ELEMENTS OF DESIGN CURRENTLY RECOMMENDED FOR COLLEGIATE USAGE BY THE MOST NOTABLE LONDON DRAPERS. FULL AND ACCURATE ATTENTION ACCORDED SELECTION AND FITTING.

CHICAGO CORRECT AND DISTINGUISHED EVENING ATTIRE DINNER JACKET AND TROUSERS SIXTY-FIVE DOLLARS AND MORE FULL DRESS COAT AND TROUSERS EIGHTY DOLLARS AND MORE