FINAL GAME WITH DUKE UNIVERSITY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”

THANKSGIVING CLASSIC AT DAVIDSON

Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 21, 1929 No. 2

President Lingle Makes Inspiring Speech During Home-Coming Exercises

Desires Closer Relationship Between Alumni and College Administration

CITES COLLEGE’S NEEDS

Meeting Presided Over by Dr. R. H. Lafferty, Vice-President of Alumni Association

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President of Davidson College, in his first official address to the alumni, intimated that a closer relationship should exist between the alumni and the college administration, in a speech which featured the morning exercises held on Home-Coming Day, in the new Chambers auditorium. Doctor Lingle explained that the purpose of Home-Coming Day was to bring the alumni back to the old college. “I am speaking to the old, present and future alumni of Davidson,” Doctor Lingle said. “Our alumni are the best friends of the college and they love it more each year.” The president also indicated that he was speaking intimately and stated that it was his wish that the Alumni Association cooperate more closely with the college administration. The executive also introduced a new plan which he hoped would go into effect as soon as the college could be able to handle it without any financial difficulty. The project called for a change in supporting the Alumni Association, which directed that the organization be maintained by the college rather than the annual assessment of each alumnus. The audience voiced their approval of the plan with audible acquiescence.

Doctor Lingle divided the climax of his address into a discussion of the four-fold life offered by the college activities. “Our alumni are usually more interested in athletics and we rejoice in it since they stand for clean sports,” Doctor Lingle continued. “The Carnegie report, which is amazing and voluminous, accuses several colleges and universities of commercialism in athletics. This report did not include Davidson but had they done it, we would have been placed on the clean side.” In stressing physical education, the speaker declared that this was very important since our education should begin with the development of the physical element, and made known that the crying need of the college now is a new Infirmary. Doctor Lingle, in emphasizing social culture, suggested that in order not to blunder through life, we should learn more social manners. “We are also sorely in need of a social center to stand up for social and religious development,” the new president asserted. In reference to the intellectual development of the student body, Doctor Lingle suggested that the faculty is handling the situation very well. “With regard to the spiritual development of the students, someone asked me what my chief aim was, when I assumed the presidency of this institution, and I very readily answered that it was to build educated, cultured, Christian manhood,” the speaker averred. Doctor Lingle concluded with the statement that although he hoped that his plans would materialize, and the alumni see our needs, our growing college would be a dead one if all essential requirements of a good school had already been met.

The presiding officer, who led this first of a series of entertainments provided for the visiting alumni, and who introduced each speaker, was Dr. R. H. Lafferty, of Charlotte, vice-president of the Alumni Association. The program was initiated with a splendid performance by Eugene Craft, on the new college organ, gift of Mrs. Cameron Morrison. Mr. Craft, who is prominent in North Carolinian musical circles, studied under the famous organist, Dupre, last year. Dr. J. M. McConnell, of the College faculty, made a stirring address of welcome after

(Continued on Page 5)

Large Crowd Enjoys Annual Stunt Night

The annual Davidson Stunt Night was presented last Saturday evening before an audience of some six or seven hundred people. This entertainment was sponsored by the Glee Club, and a very interesting program was presented. It was also featured by a number of novelty stunts. The attraction of the evening was presented by the Glee Club, the members of which sang two classical numbers. The stunts from the different classes were then offered, with the Freshmen appearing first. Their contribution was composed of three acts or skits. The first was comical; the second, a Freshman’s conception of the four classes; the third, a musical sketch. Four “end men” then took the stage with their comedy and harmony numbers. Drawing constant laughter and applause from the audience, this stunt was the most unique of the entire program. Joe McCall, “Hub” Covington, “Boots” Wilson, and Bill Mason were the representatives from the Junior class, the sponsor of this skit. A novelty performance was given by the Sophomore Class featuring the singing of George Pardington, who sang two popular numbers. A banjo duet, featuring Rosser Elkins, a sketch by Horace Erwin and a group of negro spirituals sung by local negroes concluded this stunt. The Senior stunt was all comedy. It consisted of acrobatic stunts by a group of Seniors mimicking some professional group of acrobats. Between the class stunts, other small skits were presented. The Glee Club presented two more numbers, and the Sunnyland Serenaders entertained the audience with a varied group of popular selections. The final act was the singing of “O Davidson” by the Glee Club and the entire audience, accompanied by the orchestra. Credit should be given to W. D. Poole of the Freshman Class, W. S. Lea of the Sophomore Class, C. H. Goodykoontz of the Junior Class and J. Z. Preston of the Senior Class, who were the chairmen of their respective class stunts.

Seniors and Sophs Basketball Victors

Fast Games Reeled Off in Class Series

In the latest series of class basketball, the Seniors triumphed over the Fresh by a score of 41-27. Whenever the Freshmen have played the Seniors, they have always played a good game, but have lacked the punch necessary to down the dashing four-year men. In this particular game Baucher and Baughham were the principal scorers for the Fresh, while Moore seemed to find the hoop most for the Seniors. He scored twenty-two points. The same night, the Juniors wilted before a fighting Soph attack, and when the last quarter was over the score stood at 22-18. Both teams showed up well, and though there were few individual stars, it was an intensely interesting game of basketball. Martin, of the Sophs, and Shepard were high scorers for their respective teams.

Oren Moore to Speak

Dr. Oren Moore, prominent physician of Charlotte, will speak at “Y” Vespers Sunday at 6:00 p.m., in Shearer Hall. Dr. Moore is one of Davidson's most faithful alumni. His presence on the campus is frequent and in the case of a football game certain. He is an attractive speaker and has a fine personality. The freshmen will remember his talk in “Y” Vespers of last year.

Davidson Freshmen to Play Duke Frosh at Durham, Friday

Both Teams Have Good Records Over Opposition to Date

Coach “Red” Laird’s freshmen proteges will ring down their football curtain Friday when they meet the Blue Imps of Duke University at the Devil's lair in Durham. Both teams have enviable records so far, having been defeated only by the N. C. State Frosh. However, the Blue Imps feel that they have a slight edge over the Wildkittens, for on Armistice Day, they decisively downed Oak Ridge, 13 to 0, who had previously held the Davidson Frosh to a 6 to 6 tie. But just as apparent advantages are done away with when the varsities meet, so will it be in the case of the Freshmen. The power of the Duke Frosh was shown conclusively by their victory over Oak Ridge in Greensboro. When the Duke shock troops, which had started the game could make no headway against the fighting cadets, Coach Cameron sent in his regulars and from then on Duke dominated the game. Her line was a powerful, hard charging group which soon wore down the lighter cadet forward wall, and which repeatedly broke through, throwing the Oak Ridge backs for big losses. Quarterback Coombs, a nephew of the famous Jack of the World Series and Athletic fame, hurled two beautiful passes which led to touchdowns, the first to Riber, and the second to Cochrane, the brother of the famous Mickey. In both these instances, it was a plunging, jolting chap named Sillman who made the remaining necessary yardage.

The Wildkittens will offer as opposition a much improved defense, and an excellent air attack that was directly responsible for the victory over Wofford last Friday. The probable lineups of the two teams follows:

Duke Position Davidson
Bardi Pierce
Olive WagnerLittle L.G. Brownlee
Gardner G. Blackson
Mullins R.G. Hickhalls
Ogden R.T. RGMONS
Barrier R.E. Comps
Pearce Q.B. Riber
Clarke L.H. Cochrane
Mills R.H. Sillman
Manson F.B.

R. O. T. C. Unit Stages Home-Coming Parade

Home-Coming Parade Given in Rain

Before approximately three hundred spectators, the Davidson R. O. T. C. Unit gave the annual Battalion parade on Sprunt Field last Saturday. This feature of Home-Coming Day was handicapped to a certain extent by a drizzling rain, but so far as can be learned the drill was the best of this fall. The companies assembled at 10:40 between the stadium and the gym and stacked arms. Immediately after the arms were stacked, the command “fall out” was given, and a part went to the auditorium where Home-Coming Exercises were being held. Following the exercises here, the companies assembled again at the stacks, took arms and marched to the Freshman field. All the companies assembled facing the stadium and stood at parade rest while the band sounded off. Following this, the Star Spangled Banner was played, and the companies were ordered to pass in review before the commanding officers. The second pla- (Continued on Page 8)

Home Missions Are Objects of Y Fund

Recently, it has been decided that the annual Mission Fund, made up of gifts from the students, will be devoted this year to the welfare of home mission interests, part going to the Lees-McRae Institute, in Banner Elk, N. C., as scholarships for mountain boys, and part toward building a Sunday School building in the mill village, here in Davidson. The fund, which is raised by voluntary subscriptions from the students and collected through the Y. M. C. A., has, as its minimum goal, a thousand dollars, but no definite limit has been set. Last year, this money was given for the support of Frank W. Price, a Davidson alumnus, in his mission work in Nanking, China, and the previous year, to Lees-McRae Institute. The two projects, mill village Sunday School, and scholarships for mountain boys are tied up in the fact that the majority of the mill workers here come from the mountains and are essentially mountain people. They form the purest Anglo-Saxon stock in America, and show great promise when given an opportunity. Lees-McRae Institute is a prep school and junior college in the heart of the Blue Ridge mountains, where boys and girls from the most backward hollows, who are ambitious for an education, can, by dint of hard work, not only get knowledge, but get abreast of modern times in culture. There are 89 boys in the school, of whom 20 get scholarships of $120 each, if they are to remain in the school; by working in spare time they can pay the rest of their tuition, board, etc. Most of them can realize no help from their families, however. There are two Davidson graduates on the faculty: L. K. Pritchett, '27, and R. O. Flinn, ’29. Flinn claims to have an excellent football team this season, some of whose stars have their eyes set on Davidson. The need for a Sunday School building for the mill workers in Davidson is urgent. There are at present a total of 80 members divided into eight classes. For most of those who attend, it is the only religious training they receive, and this has in large measure been done through Davidson students. Albert McLure is at the head as student pastor. A sum of one hundred and fifty dollars has been raised by the members of the Sunday School but this amount is not sufficient. This was contributed in amounts ranging from one cent by the little children to ten dollars by their parents. The campaign will be conducted in the first two weeks of December.

Reception Held at “Y” Social Center

The social center in Ku Hall was proved useful last Saturday night when a reception was held for the alumni, visitors, and student body of Davidson following the Stunt Night program in Chambers. This is the first year that the social center has been used and it has proved a great success thus far. Radio and phonograph music, and light refreshments constituted the entertainment at the informal reception, according to W. G. McGavock and C. N. Burch, who were in charge. The social center, which has been redecorated and newly furnished, is open at all times to visiting parents and other guests of the student body. Aside from being a place for entertaining out of town friends, the room will regularly be the scene of receptions and other gatherings.

New Reporters

At a recent meeting of the Davidsonian Reporters’ Club, R. E. Witt, A. R. Bird, E. C. Dwelle, and W. H. Matthews were formally initiated into membership. They had previously been accepted for membership by a forum of the club members. These four men were recommended by the staff for their ability as writers and for their work in the newspaper office. R. E. Witt shows his literary worth in the articles which he contributed weekly.

Davidson to Play Duke in Annual Classic Here Thanksgiving Afternoon

Blue Devils Have Unsuccessfully Attempted Very Ambitious Schedule

DUKE WILL USE PASSES

Game to Bear Much Weight in Deciding North Carolina State Championship

With the end of the football season only a few days off, all eyes are focused on Turkey Day when Davidson and Duke mix on Richardson field. All prospects point to a gala day for seldom have the two Thanksgiving Day rivals been more evenly matched, and each will be putting forth a supreme effort to down their old opponent. Many expect a bigger crowd than was present on Homecoming Day, for many old alumni in neighboring states are planning to attend the football classic. Attempting probably the most ambitious schedule of any Southern team, the Blue Devils were overwhelmed in four successive games. However, no team was able to keep the Buie passing attack from functioning for the Devils scored in every game played. Not even the Pittsburgh Panthers, undefeated so far this season and said to have one of the strongest elevens in the country, could break up the bullet-like passes of Buie, and, although the powerful forward wall of Pitt was continually breaking through and rushing him, many of the heaves found their way into the waiting arms of the Duke receivers. In their first game of the Southern Conference, Duke uncorked a powerful offense and swamped Louisiana State University 32 to 6. Last week Duke fought from beginning to end to down North Carolina State 19 to 12, thus continuing their winning streak in the conference. If Duke wins, they probably will play the University of North Carolina on December 7, for the state championship; while if Davidson wins, it will give the Wildcats a 500 percent record, and Davidson will feel that they have made a very enviable record.

Davidson President Accepts Invitations

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, accepted invitations to speak in two of the oldest North Carolina Presbyterian Churches, one of which is the Church of his boyhood. On November 17, he filled the pulpit at Thyatira Presbyterian Church, several miles from Salisbury where the Davidson president was reared, and on November 24 he will speak at the Sugaw Presbyterian Church, near Charlotte, on religious education. Davidson’s President has engagements also to speak at two Father and Son Banquets, one in Greensboro on November 19, and another in Salisbury on November 22. On December 1, he will again appear in Salisbury at the First Presbyterian Church, and from there he goes directly to Chicago, Ill., for a meeting of the executive council of the Churches of Christ in America for a three-day session. Doctor Lingle is chairman of that body.

Alumni and Wives Attend Luncheon

A large number of alumni together with their wives and friends attended the informal luncheon given in the Banquet hall of the Chambers at one o'clock, Home-Coming Day. Mrs. Gaffney, who operates the College Inn, assisted by a group of students, served the luncheon. It was served somewhat in cafeteria style with sandwiches, fruits, and desserts. Both hot and cold drinks were served. A very much larger number of guests were served this year than last. To the regret of those in charge a few late comers could not be served. However, the whole affair was carried through with a great deal of satisfaction and efficiency on the part of those in charge.