Page Six * THE DAVIDSONIAN January 31, 1929

Flashes From Everywhere

Doctors Are Honored

Western Reserve University—(CNA)—One hundred eminent Clevelanders will meet at the University Club to honor Dr. Carl A. Hamman, retiring dean
of the School of Medicine of Western Reserve University, and his successor, Dr. Torald Sollmann. Both Dr. Hamman and Dr.
Sollmann have been associated with the School of Medicine for more than 35 years. When Dr. Hamman came to Cleveland
in 1893 to teach and practice surgery, Dr. Sollmann had only recently arrived in America from his birthplace, Coburg, Germany,
and was working his way through the medical school at Reserve. While dean of the School of Medicine, Dr. Hamman
has not only built up that institution to the point where it holds a front rank among the medical schools
of the country, but has been active in the development of City and Charity Hospitals. He will continue as chief
of staff in the division of surgery at City Hospital and as visiting surgeon to Charity Hospital.

Girl Engineers

Columbus, O.—(CNA)—The realms usually reserved for men received another invasion this year when three girls enrolled in the freshman engineering
class at Ohio State University. They are Eloise Spranisle, Canton; Bernice Howard, Dayton; and Esther Miller, Columbus. The class has
410 pupils.

Columbus, O.—(CNA)—Bishop Theodore S. Henderson of the Cincinnati Area of the Methodist Episcopal Church has announced the appointment of Dean
Robert Williams of Albion College, Albion, Michigan, as acting president of Ohio Northern University, Ada, Ohio. Dean Williams will assume
office on Sept. 1 when President Albert E. Smith begins a year’s leave of absence. President Smith later will retire
and Dean Williams will automatically become permanent president, Bishop Henderson said.

Boston, Mass.—(CNA)—The annual play of the Harvard dramatic club, “Fiesta,” which was adjudged “extremely objectionable” by a police board of
censorship, was banned from Boston by an order issued from the mayor's office.

NO ADVANTAGE GAINED IN MARRIAGE

“Marriage is a book of which the first chapter is written in poetry and the remaining chapters in prose,” says
Beverly Nichols, young English writer, in the March College Humor. “Modern marriage is a book of which the first chapter
is usually written in free verse and the remaining chapters in journalese. Always my question is ‘What will happen when
the poetry gives way to prose?’ Frankly, I don’t know. Nor do you.

“What, I ask myself, could a wife do for me? She could not write any of my books, though she
might stop me from writing some of them. She might do my typing, but that is an indignity to which
I would not subject her. I prefer to pay my typist’s bills. What else could a wife do for me?
She could run my house. Yes. Of all the foolish legends with which this world is befogged, the legend that
women know anything about housekeeping is the most foolish. To see them as they attempt to tackle a supremely simple
operation such as spring cleaning is as embarrassing as to watch an incompetent subaltern getting tied up with his platoon
during army maneuvers.

“Nor have women, with the exception of rare geniuses, any conception of decoration. If women really had their way, they
would turn every room into a jumble sale. If they are given a picture, up it must go, whether it
is appropriate or not. If they have a cushion, it must be pushed in somehow or other. What else could
a wife do for me? She could be a companion. Ah! You are evoking the phantom which is the haunting
fear of all bachelors—loneliness. But may there not be a welcome in the very loneliness after the fretting contacts of
the day? And are there not more books in the world to read than I shall ever know, and am
I not far more capable than anybody else of pouring out my own whiskey and soda?

“Suppose I have been to an amusing party. I may want the party to go on. I may want to
bring dozens of people home with me—Jane who sings, and John who plays the piano, and Oliver who mimics people
so brilliantly. If I am married, how am I going to do that, unless I marry an angel of tact
and forbearance?

“I rejoice in my freedom. If I choose, I can get on board a steamer tomorrow and sail to Hawaii
and start a trade in illicit drugs. I can grow a beard and screech anarchy in Hyde Park. I can
stay in bed and eat macaroons. I can fill the house with monkeys. I can keep goldfish in the bath.
In other words, I can ‘be myself,’ as the Americans say.”

Large Donation

University of Chicago—(CNA)—A gift of $270,000 by John D. Rockefeller and from the Laura Spellman Rockefeller Memorial Foundation for the
establishment and upkeep of a research institute and graduate students’ training school in anthropology has been announced by the University
of Chicago. Headquarters will be in Santa Fe, N. M., where the southwest museum will be located as a laboratory
for anthropologists and a working base for field training for graduates.

Failing Linguists

Stanford University, Cal.—(CNA)—The frequent lament of foreign language teachers that so many of their students fail because so many dull
pupils take up foreign languages has been weighed scientifically. One thousand boys and girls in Spanish language classes in high
school and junior high schools have been given an intelligence test. The language students were found to be above average
in mental ability, Walter Kaulfers, of Stanford University, has reported to School and Society.

“When as many as 19 percent of the students of foreign language fail in the high schools and junior high
schools, and when the general intelligence of the students of these classes, and even of the failing groups, is above
that of pupils in general, the suspicion becomes strong that a high rate of mortality may be due rather to
faults in the teaching and organization of the courses than to deficiencies in the students themselves,” he stated.

Too Much Alarm

New Haven—(CNA)—A band was on the stage during a theatrical performance. Off went an alarm clock in the audience, then
another, then a third and so on till six were busy. The management concluded that the Yale boys disliked the
band.

Regular Event

Wilmington (CNA)—R. O. Skinner, president of Wilmington College, will conduct an investigation to learn the identity of the persons who
set fire to the grandstand at the college football field. The blaze was extinguished with only slight damage. The wooden
stands were erected more than 20 years ago and in recent years students of the college have been clamoring for
a concrete stadium. Each year at Thanksgiving time the stands have been ignited for the last three years.

Offering Proof

Baltimore (CNA)—From the anti-evolution belt in Tennessee, Dr. Adolph P. Schultz, anthropologist at Johns Hopkins Medical School, is expecting an
exhibit that will go far to prove the theory that somewhere in the world’s history men and apes were about
the same. Dr. Schultz said he had been advised that a few weeks ago a child was born in Knoxville
with a seven-inch tail. It was amputated and Dr. Schultz said he had been promised it for study and research.

University of Texas—(CNA)—By a vote of nine to two the Student Assembly abolished the Honor System which has been in
effect here since the beginning of the University in 1883. A resolution was passed petitioning the faculty to assume the
responsibility of administering the examinations in the future. The statement from the Student Assembly read as follows: “The Student Assembly
has decided that the Honor System as it has been enforced for the past few years has proven ineffective.

“You are going to tell me that if everybody thought as I did the world would cease altogether, and humanity
would perish from the face of the earth,” to which I can only reply, ‘Why not?’

Health for Clothes

Marquette Univ.—(CNA)—“Young women are sacrificing good health to fulfill their desire for good clothes,” said Miss Irma Hochstein, director of
the Central Bureau of Information and Statistics at Marquette University in a recent speech.

Young Rebellion, Eh What?

Eureka College—(CNA)—Students of Eureka College, Eureka, IL, finished a week rebellion after they had won their point. Bert Wilson resigned
as president in response to student clamor against faculty changes. A crisis came when students rebelled at the trustee’s refusal
to accept Wilson's resignation. A dozen attended Thanksgiving recess. Then the trustees voted to let Wilson quit. Richard Dickinson, chairman
of the trustees, was named acting president. The college has over 300 students.Again Dartmouth College—(CNA)—The college or the country or
the age which combats the influence of every lure which challenges to physical achievement, in the opinion of President Hopkins
of Dartmouth, will become anemic and lifeless and uninspiring in all things. Such is his answer to influences toward curtailment
of such activity as resulted in the death of a student during a hike up Mt. Washington.

System Continues Here of Less than classes after the North Carolina State—(CNA)—State college officials favor the honor system. Its continuance
was approved by 1,000 students in a referendum. Only 23 voted “no.” Discussion arose when an honorary leadership fraternity moved
to substitute the old faculty rule.

Cincinnati University—(CNA)—A gift of $400,000 for the erection of a commodious Y. M. C. A. building on the University of
Cincinnati campus and the endowment for the same, with a deed to property on Calhoun Street, adjacent to the campus,
for location of the building as a social and religious center was presented Wednesday to the Directors of the Association
by Cecil Gamble on behalf of his mother and his two brothers. Stipulations accompanying the benefaction, as contained in the
formal announcement of Gamble to the Board of Directors, follow:

“We will deed to the Young Men's Christian Association the property we now own on Calhoun Street adjacent to the
University campus. We will provide the money required for the erection and furnishing of a building on said property for
the use of the University Branch Y.M.C.A., and likewise for the use of the University Y.W.C.A., should this later organization,
now or in the future, desire to use its facilities. The cost of the building and furnishings is not to
exceed $175,000. The design of the building is to harmonize with nearby buildings and furnishings are subject to our approval.
The personnel will be provided for either by cash or by contribution to your endowment of $100,000.”

Dr. Herman Schneider, President of the University of Cincinnati, said, “The broad scope of the gift is particularly gratifying in
that it will give every student in the University, without exception or any discrimination whatsoever, the finest possible facilities for
his social life and for his guidance in personal affairs. It is truly a great gift.”

Women Shooters

Akron University—(CNA)—Akron University is to have a women’s rifle team again this year. Sergeant Henry Metzger announced Thursday. The first
tryout brought out 28 co-eds who want places on the team.

DR. BROWN SPEAKS ON FREIGHT RATES

“North Carolina's industrial progress today is decidedly hampered by the high and exorbitant freight rates imposed by the railroads, which
situation is due to a lack of an east-to-west railway through North Carolina to the mid-west,” declared Dr. C. K.
Brown, professor of economics at Davidson, in speaking here Thursday night before the Quadranglers Club, a faculty organization. Dr. Brown
recently completed his postgraduate work in the field of economics and has made an exhaustive study of the freight rates
through North Carolina. His recent book, “A State Movement in Railroad Development,” dealt with this particular phase of economics and
has received state-wide attention and publicity.

The speaker gave a historical illustrated discussion in which he told of the efforts between 1848 and 1880 to construct
an east-to-west railroad through North Carolina, which attempt was thwarted when the state sold the Western North Carolina railroad. Another
contributing factor responsible for the failure, he said, occurred in 1871 when the railroad operating between Goldsboro and Charlotte was
sold. No criticisms of these actions were offered by Dr. Brown, for extenuating circumstances led to these sales. On the
other hand, he lauded the state for its valiant and desperate struggles, which, if they had materialized, would give North
Carolina freight rates today which would be on a parity with those of other states.

Dr. Brown thoroughly explained the North Carolina freight rates, which are determined by taking the rates extended to Norfolk and
intermediary points from the mid-west, and then adding an extra fee for North Carolina cities, even though some of them
might be located closer to the mid-western points than Virginia destinations. “A direct through line,” he maintained, “would ensure North
Carolina cheaper rates, and would enable them to enter into competition. At present, a Richmond dealer can sell goods in
North Carolina territory, which rightly should belong to Carolina merchants.

“The only hope that I can see for a decrease in the freight rates to North Carolina,” he declared, “is
through the action of the Interstate Commerce Commission. A rapidly expanding railroad traffic, with subsequent prosperity for the railroads in
the South, will probably lead to an ultimate revision of the rates, based more nearly on the principle of distance.
Until then, there seems to be no relief.”

Government Study

New Haven, Conn.—(CNA)—Studies in the field of government are to be pushed at Yale University under the Eugene Meyer, Jr.,
public service fund and the newly announced Alfred Cowles Foundation for which Yale has received $350,000 from the children of
the late Alfred Cowles, one of the owners of the Chicago Tribune.

Dec. 12

My, you need a haircut. Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real College haircut. He has three real barbers.
NORTON BROS. in Post Office block—Three first-class workmen.

Davidson Theatre ad

An intersection... looks clear... you see the other car... brakes... too late... CRASH... who pays? Don't depend on the other
fellow. Carry your own insurance—Collision, Fire, Theft, Property Damage—so that you will be prepared for any emergency. Let us quote
rates and explain the protection of our policy. It's safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Company Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Monday, February 4th “Fugitives” With MADGE BELLAMY

Tuesday, February 5th “Shady Lady” With PHYLLIS HAVER

Thursday, February 7th “True Heaven” With GEORGE O’BRIEN and LOIS MORAN

Friday, February 8th “Marquis Preferred” With ADOLPHE MENJOU

Saturday, February 9th “Kit Carson” With FRED THOMPSON

Four Classes Aid in Purchasing Uniforms

W. B. McQueen, though he has by graduation at the first term severed his official relations with the college, will
continue to act as the editor of the Chameleon. There will be but one more edition published this year, and
this will be sometime in April, probably toward the first of the month. All of the material for the next
and final issue of the Davidson College Magazine is being collected by Frank Hall, who is actively in charge of
the publication in the absence of McQueen. As to the contents, much the same general policy with regard to contents
will be followed. The Book Review department, which was an addition in the last issue, is to be continued. All
students wishing to contribute to the final issue should either submit their material to Frank Hall or get in touch
with him at an early date. Despite the rather scathing review of the last issue of the Magazine, there has
been quite a good deal of material submitted for publication, so that all contributors or would-be contributors had best make
haste according to editors, if they desire their creations to see the light under the auspices of the Chameleon.

SAME EDITOR FOR LAST CHAMELEON

At the suggestion of Capt. Elkins, the classes held meetings and adopted plans for raising funds for the new band
uniforms. All of the proceeds have not yet been turned in but so far they have been very satisfactory. Final
plans for the actual purchasing of the uniforms have not yet been completed, but will be when the rest of
the money is turned in sometime during the next few days. At this time the capes, caps, and trousers will
be ordered. It will be impossible to order the complete equipment at once but the second installment of them will
be purchased as soon as sufficient funds are raised. The local chapter of the American Legion recently sent a check
for $25 to help buy the new uniforms. An officer in the Reserve Officers’ Corps at Charlotte also sent a
check. This man was a former Davidson student.

Penalized for Holding

New York—(CNC)—If Ken Strong, star back, did any holding during the football season, it would have cost N. Y. U.
15 yards. But he’s done some holding since then that has occasioned congratulations. He has had his picture taken holding
hands and huddling with Miss Rella Harrison, musical comedy actress. They are engaged.

THE CURRENT STYLES IN CLOTHES, HATS, SHOES AND HABERDASHERY FOR LOUNGE, CAMPUS, SPORTS USAGE WILL BE EXHIBITED IN YOUR TOWN
ON DATE GIVEN BELOW. YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND.

At Miss Minnie Scofield’s THU. JAN. 31 & FRI. FEB. 1 Joseph S. Branch, Rep.

The Students’ Store Can Supply All Your Needs ARK, IT’S YOURS, WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?
