March 14, 1929. 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Business As A Life Work Discussed By Charlotte Speakers
All Stress Need of Application and Experience

Mr. J. H. Carson of Charlotte was the fourth speaker in a series of talks arranged by the “YMCA” on various phases of business as a life work. Mr. Carson spoke at the “Y” rooms on Thursday night, his subject being Real Estate. Real Estate is one of the many businesses fast approaching the professional stage. Courses are being offered in several schools dealing with the subject, which are designed to prepare the student for Real Estate as a life work. Mr. Carson, looking into the future, predicted that the day is not far distant when real estate will be as much a profession, requiring professional training, as medicine, law or engineering. To enter the real estate business a young man should be possessed of four outstanding qualities. First of all, he must be red-blooded. By red-blooded we mean a clean thinker, a clean liver, and a clean talker. Then he must have courage, he must be honest, and he must possess imagination. The man with these qualities is fairly certain to succeed in the real estate business.

Real estate has often been placed in an unfavorable light by booms and land swindles, which are very unfortunate things that the good real estate man does his best to avoid. Conditions in Florida very clearly illustrate the evil results of the boom. Such conditions pave the way for the professional swindler and as a result, the real estate business comes in for its share of abuse. It is true that there are many opportunities for the crook, but under normal conditions, a man cannot be crooked and stay in real estate long. The public will find him out, for the true real estate man never misrepresents a property. Real Estate Boards are being organized throughout the country for the purpose of driving out the dishonest man. All the best real estate men are members of these boards, requirements for membership in which are very high. A certain code of business ethics must be followed by its members or they are expelled, and by this method, the board hopes to elevate the business to a higher plane. The importance of real estate as a business cannot be overlooked, for over one half of the total wealth of the United States is said to be real estate.

Leach Presented Banking

On Tuesday night, March 5, Mr. Hugh Leach of the Federal Reserve Bank Branch of Charlotte presented banking as a life’s vocation to an interested group of students at the Y rooms. Mr. Leach gave a very general explanation of the different classes of banks and their functions and also interesting information on the internal functioning of the Federal Reserve System, a field that Mr. Leach is well acquainted with. Typical of all the business men who addressed Davidson students during the business week of the Vocational Guidance Institute, Mr. Leach urged the application of knowledge acquired in college to a period of practical training, even at a financial loss, before entering the banking field as a new candidate for executive positions. He especially endorses experience as an assistant to a bank examiner. Following the address, Mr. Leach was subjected to the questioning of his audience, with chief interest in the currency.

McCullough on Accounting

“Education is valueless unless applied to an object,” said Mr. D. H. McCullough of the McCullough firm of Certified Public Accountants of Charlotte in an address to prospective accountants at the Y rooms Tuesday night, March 5. Mr. McCullough impressed upon his audience the value of an education if applied to an object early in the school career and pursued with the intention of gaining something applicable to his future. Otherwise, it is valueless. From his own experience, Mr. McCullough urged a year of practical experience and then specialization in some particular field of accounting with the idea in mind of becoming an authority in that field. This, he explained, is in line with the present-day mergers and nationalization of business units.

Scholarships

Akron University—(CNA)—Announcements of the opening of applications for the Firestone, Goodyear, and Goodrich fellowship in rubber chemistry are mailed out this week to 650 universities and colleges throughout the state, Prof. H. E. Simmons, head of the chemistry department of Akron University, announced. Each fellowship provides $1000 and free tuition for a year’s study in the chemistry department. Students taking the course are required to do a maximum of nine hours of laboratory supervision and one year’s work in the company granting the fellowship.

Fraternity Average First Semester 1928-29

Sigma Alpha Epsilon........86.5
Beta Theta Pi.......................
Pi Kappa Alpha..................
Theta Upsilon Omega........
Kappa Sigma......................
Kappa Alpha......................
Phi Delta Theta..................
Pi Kappa Phi......................
Phi Gamma Delta..............

Local Clubs

Pyramid Club

FUND SUFFICIENT FOR UNIFORM CAPS

It has become definitely known that enough money has been raised by those backing the band uniform campaign to provide caps for each member of the organization. Since the beginning of this movement under the direction of Capt. Elkins, the fund has had a steady growth and though a great deal of work is yet to be done before the uniforms will be complete, it is reasonably safe to state that by the opening of the football season next fall, the band will be fully equipped with caps and capes. It is estimated that around fifteen hundred dollars will be the total cost of the complete outfit which will include trousers, caps, and capes. The drum major's uniform, which is the most costly of all, has already been purchased.

C.E.T.C. Group Sent To Country Church

Last Sunday the Christian Endeavor Training Class conducted a very successful deputation at the Mallard Creek Presbyterian Church, in the vicinity of Davidson. The program rendered by the Davidson men consisted of a short song and devotional service, led by Bill McGavock, member of the Junior Class. Three talks were given, T. R. Nunan spoke on the subject of “Dwight L. Moody,” H. E. Russell on “Florence Nightingale,” S. S. Wiley on “David Livingston.” C. C. Orr and P. B. Fry rendered special music. The meeting was attended by a large crowd and very encouraging interest was shown by everyone. These deputations are sent out each Sunday, and F. D. Poag, president of the C. E. T. C. urges that students interested in Christian work take part in the Training Class activities.

GLASGOW TALKS

Fame, and other temporal possessions are good in their place, but all must be left behind. Only man’s record of character can be taken along with him when God is making His evaluations. Moreover, a carbon copy of the record is left behind to serve as an inspiration to good or evil on the part of future youth. Lastly, but very essential to real Christian character, is the necessity of “coming out in the open” with belief in Christianity. Be a Christian without apologizing for it; let the man apologize who is not a Christian. Although a man may have only enough energy and strength to start into a new life, let him start and Christ will give him the needed help to finish. Pick a goal, choose a profession as a means to that goal, and then launch out in His strength.

A Timely Lyric

From a vacation letter in the Chicago Tribune:

Little bankroll, ere we part,
Let me hug you to my heart.
All the year I’ve clung to you,
I've been faithful, you’ve been true.
Little bankroll, in a day
You and I will start away
To a gay and festive spot—
I'll come home, but you will not.

O. D. K. Fraternity Holds Convention At Alabama

Scott Addresses Ministerial Band

“The Army Chaplain” was the subject of aVery interesting talk, which was given to the Ministerial Band on Sunday afternoon by Colonel Scott, was the subject. In citing the history of the chaplain as a builder of character and preserver of morality, he pointed out that down through the pages of history, the importance of religious guidance has always been recognized in fighting organizations. This recognition has been exceedingly widespread, being noticeable in practically all classes of bodies, ranging from Robin Hood to the Crusaders. Washington was the first leader to establish a regular distribution of chaplains, at which time he advised his soldiers to “indulge with caution the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion.” Colonel Scott stated that the qualifications of a chaplain are filled with great difficulty. For Protestant soldiers, the American Federation of Churches said that “sincerity of purpose” was the most valuable aid towards efficiency. After having passed two examinations, which search him thoroughly from every possible aspect, and having proved himself a cultured gentleman, the chaplain is given the rank of a first lieutenant. Their duties are by no means confined to preaching. A chaplain may often be found in the front lines distributing cigarettes or chocolate, in the hospitals or aid stations, or possibly visiting the prisoners of war. They are of great value as advisors of recruits, in making wills, or in the identification of dead or wounded soldiers. The chief position of a chaplain, however, is as a servant of the people, just like any other minister.

Wilmington Pastor Will Speak At “Y”

Rev. A. D. P. Gilmour, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Wilmington, N. C., will speak at “Y” Vespers Sunday, March 17. Dr. Gilmour is well-known on the campus and among church officials throughout the state. He was graduated from Hampden-Sydney College and afterwards finished at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, where he received the Doctor of Divinity degree. Before going to Wilmington, Dr. Gilmour held the pastorate of the First Presbyterian Church in Spartanburg, S.C. He is known and loved by literally hundreds of people in North and South Carolina, and Davidson is indeed fortunate to have him speak Sunday evening.

On March 24, the following Sunday, the meeting will be devoted entirely to music. Nelson Myers, Monroe Gilmour, and Professor Cullum have charge of the program. The Glee Club and the ladies of Davidson will have the larger part of it. This musical program is one which was to be given before the Christmas holidays but could not on account of the flu epidemic. This will be the last time “Y” Vespers will be held before the Spring holidays.

A woman toddled into the Probate Court, up to the judge’s desk, and asked: “Are you the probate judge?” His honor replied without a smile or caustic voice, “I am.” “Well,” continued the woman, “my husband died detested, left me a couple of little infidels, and I want papers to be their executioner.” The judge graciously guessed what she meant.—Ex.

STATIONERY
Printed and Embossed
ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS
Aubrey Brown
Representing
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Davidson Sends Largest Number of Representatives to Gathering

On Thursday, February 28th, the Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity met at the University of Alabama at Tuscaloosa, Alabama. The Iota circle of the fraternity at the University of Alabama acted as the host to the visiting delegates. The convention was formally opened on Friday morning at 10:00 o’clock with a business meeting of the society. All meetings convened at Farrah Hall. This hall is located on the university campus and was used as the headquarters of the convention. After the opening meeting, which lasted practically the entire morning, luncheon was served to the guests. At 3:00, another business session was held, taking up such business as came before the fraternity, including the election of officers for the coming year. The formal banquet was held at seven o'clock Friday night, during which talks were made by officers and other prominent members. At the end of the banquet, the delegates were taken to the O. D. K. dance at the country club of Tuscaloosa. At the adjournment of another meeting on Saturday morning, the visiting men were taken on an automobile tour to points of interest in the immediate vicinity. The “A” Club at Tuscaloosa held an informal dance Saturday night for the delegates who remained, this being the last gathering of the convention.

The Delta circle at Davidson College was well represented by the following men: J. R. Covington, A. N. Myers, C. R. Lake, Gilmour, and M. M. King, being the largest delegation exclusive of the host circle. Out of twenty-four circles of O. D. K., twenty-two were represented at the convention.

Angry Motorist: “Some of you pedestrians walk along just as if you owned the streets.”
Irate Pedestrian: “Yes, and some of you motorists drive around just as if you owned the car!”—Judge.

Flora Macdonald On Air From WBT

Tonight at eight p.m., the Flora Macdonald College Glee Club will broadcast over WBT. The club, which came over from Red Springs, N. C., today, consists of eighteen of the Scotch Presbyterian College girls. They will broadcast voice and piano solos, a stringed quartet, a few chorus numbers, and a trio. Flora Macdonald has established a wide reputation for herself and her girls in the line of musical accomplishment, and some of those performing for you tonight have won first places in state-wide competition. There will be two chorus numbers, probably from Gaul’s “Holy City.” The trio will sing “It Shall Come to Pass,” also from the “Holy City.”

The chorus girls are: first sopranos—Misses Nancy Condutf, Mary Louise Mandeville, Lucille Morton, Caroline Patterson, and Shepherd; second sopranos—Misses Dorothy Price, Carrie Smith, Virginia Cunningham, Helen Forbis, and Eunice Wells; altos—Misses Julia Bradley, Elizabeth Caldwell, Annie Carson, Mary Gamble, and Elizabeth Monroe. The choruses will be accompanied by Miss Lucile Davis. The voice soloists are Miss Caroline Patterson and Miss Marion Burgess; Misses Virginia Cunningham, Lucile Davies, and Mary Eunice Wells.

First Offense.—Judge: “Guilty or not guilty?”
Rastus: “Not guilty, suh.”
Judge: “Have you ever been in jail?”
Rastus: “No, suh, I never stole nuthin before.”—Ex.

Parade Results

The second platoon of Company “A” won the first place at the regular afternoon drill on Wednesday, March 6. The first platoon of Company “B” came second, and the third platoon of Company “C” received the third place.

To the Owner of Rented Property

Your ordinary FIRE insurance will not fully protect your interest when fire wholly or partly destroys your rented property. Where are you to get money to pay taxes and fixed expenses, pending reconstruction after a fire which stops rent income? You need RENT INSURANCE to pay the rents you lose due to that property’s untenantability. When may we fully explain the benefits of RENT INSURANCE? It's safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Company
Insurance Department

“DRUGS”
“Prescriptions”
Make Our Store Your Store
A Complete Drug Store in a Good College Town
See Our New Line Of Stationery
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“SODA”
“Drug Sundries”

PARDON OUR MAIDENLY RETICENCE, BUT—

IN CHOOSING a cigarette, we doubt that you will allow yourself to get all hot and bothered. Indubitably you know what mellow mildness you want in a smoke. Suffice it for us to say we think Camel has just that. Filter Camel’s cool fragrance through your smoke-channel, and see how it clicks. After all, nothing takes the place of pleasure.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C. © 1929

Page Three