February 7, 1929 THE DAVIDSONIAN

BLUE DEVILS INVADE CAMPUS TONIGHT

CAT TRAX
As They Follow the Red and Black
By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Tonight’s clash with the Blue Devils from Duke University should easily be the outstanding thrill dispenser of the season thus far. This is the Wildcat’s year to howl in the great old court game, and we won’t be at all taken back if the dope bucket is spilled forty different ways here tonight. The Duke team is well balanced and is blessed with plenty of able substitutes, but they will play their best game of the season if they cop that scrap tonight. So we believe.

We hear that “Fesser Faul’s Monograms” were about the most surprised young men that ever walked off the floor. That victory in Charlotte was one of the greatest in recent years. Glory to the Cats for being the team to do the dirty work. Looks like they are out to make trouble from now on. The varsity and freshmen combined to make “Monk” and “Tex” enjoy the past weekend tremendously. The double-barrelled win over the old hangout of the Davidson coaches didn’t hurt any feelings around here. Lenoir-Rhyne and Elon added to the general merriment, helping the locals to salt away one of the best basketball weeks in history.

Rumors are going about to the effect that John Currie is to re-enter school here at an early date. Great news if true, but we are not disposed to put much stock in it until we actually see those long legs speeding around the track. Johnnie is good for ten points in any meet—his return would mean a much greater track season.

Hardly know what to think about this little love fest between the Bean-eater from Boston and Young Stribling. Sharkey is up to his usual tactics of slinging a line of bull ten miles wide to the eager public, but, for that matter, so is Stribling. Sharkey looks the best to us at present, though we would like to be wrong in the matter.

The approaching trip of Davidson basketball teams through Virginia should plant the Red and Black standard firmly in enemy soil. Lynchburg College ought not to give serious trouble, V. P. I. and Virginia should succumb, with the latter giving plenty of resistance, and we are not so sure about V. M. I. and W. and L., though we believe the former will be conquered. The Generals are the boys likely to spoil our little dream of a triumph tour. To be sure, any one of the above quints may turn out to be a regular Wellington to Monk’s Napoleonic hopes, but, just the same we like to plan it all out now.

Dr. Charlie, every Wildcat’s right-hand man, is already talking football. The sight of sixty hardy lads double-teaming, punting and passing this past week was a little too much for the old boy, so he broke down and confessed that next fall’s eleven would be a good one. You're right, Charlie, those Cats are coming back to tear ‘em down.

The four classes of the college now have a challenge that they can’t afford to ignore in the inter-class boxing tournament. Now is the time for all good fighters to vent their feelings for the honor of OLD '30 or what have you? Captain Pritchett deserves a world of credit for the promotion of this idea. We hope that it will lead to inter-collegiate boxing at Davidson.

Every day brings the time a little closer when horsehide will plump into glove and willow will lean against it. For the first time in a good many years there is really good material in sight for baseball and you can trust Monk to make the most of it. With a reasonable amount of hitting the Wildcats should ride high and far.

Wildcats Win Over V.P.I. And Charlotte Monogram Club In Brilliant Games
Dope Upset as Locals Lick Crack Pro Team
CALHOUN STARS
Virginia Tech is Beaten in Fast Contest

The Wildcats went wild last Thursday night and furnished one of the biggest upsets of the present season by decisively trouncing the crack Charlotte Monogram Club 41 to 27. The Monnies were top-heavy favorites to down the Cats but the Davidson men entered the contest with a determination that would not be denied and soon had the game safely in the bag. For nine minutes the Charlotte boys did not score, while the Wildcats were piling up eight points. A rally gave the Monnies a short-lived lead of 9-8, but the Cats soon drew away never to be headed again. The half ended with the Davidson team leading 15-12, and as the final period progressed, they steadily increased their margin of victory.

Glenn Calhoun’s remarkable shooting gave the Cats the game. This lanky star amassed a total of nineteen points to easily lead the entire field. He was ably abetted by Captain Pritchett and Johnson of Davidson. Goodson featured the contest with his close guarding. The Wildcat victory, though unexpected, was a triumph of the first water and in no way was it a fluke. Superior play and fight won for the adherents of Younger’s system.

Lineup and Summary:
Davidson
Pritchett (c) f ........ 2
Calhoun f ............. 7
Shepherd c ............ 0
Johnson g ............. 1
Watson g .............. 0
Goodson g ............. 2
Rogers g .............. 0
Moore g ............... 0
Total ............... 15

Monograms
Ingram f .............. 1
McDonald f ............ 3
Newcombe f ............ 2
Andrews c ............. 1
Gumbert g ............. 3
Howell g .............. 1
Usetinger g ........... 1
Dodderer g ............ 0
Total ............... 12

Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

DAVIDSON 27, V. P. I. 12

V. P. I. fell before the speeding Wildcat five in a thrilling and snappy court encounter last Saturday night in Alumni gymnasium. The score was 27-12, marking the fourth straight win for the local basketeers. Throughout the contest, the Davidson quint showed marked superiority although the visitors sank two goals before the local unit began to function. The first half was featured by the guarding of both teams, and neither was able to make the long ones count. Half time however found the Cats resting on a 12-8 lead. Davidson held the visitors to a lone field goal in the final canto, while she was piling up a good number of points, Calhoun leading the attack. Bill Goodson, Captain of last year’s fresh team, continued to prove his worth as a guard. He was in every play, it seemed. The Virginia lads were led in scoring by Looney. Brown, center and captain, played a sterling floor game.

Lineup and summary:
Davidson
Pritchett (c) f ........ 2

All Athletic Teams Conquer in Past Week
Eight Contests Won by Davidson Men

Last week was a banner one for the red and black. The Wildcats had eight athletic contests, and all eight were chalked up in the “won” column. The varsity basketeers were in the limelight, taking the measure of four strong opponents in Lenoir-Rhyne, Elon, Virginia Tech, and Charlotte's crack Monogram Club. The freshmen, not to be outdone, added the names of Belmont Abbey, Statesville High, and V. P. I. fresh to their list of basketball victims. And just to make the week a highly successful one, the Wildcat wrestlers outpointed the matmen of Concord “Y” by the score of 15-12 in the latter's own back yard.

The outstanding contest of the week was the encounter with the Monograms in which the Wildcats triumphed by the decisive score of 41 to 27. Although the outcome was a surprise to many, the professionals were clearly outclassed from the start. Only once during the gamewas the score in their favor, when they were leading 9 to 8 near the end of the first half. The lead was short-lived and at the half the count stood 15 to 12 in favor of Davidson. In the second half, the Cats continued to pull away from their opponents, the final score being Davidson 41, Monograms 27. Calhoun, Wildcat forward, was the high scorer for the week with a total of 54 points for the four games. Capt. Pritchett and Johnson were next with 41 and 29 points respectively. Martin was the big gun for the frosh with 27 points, followed by Milton with 19 and Mathis with 17. The following are the scores for the week:

Davidson 41, Freshmen 33
Davidson 41, Freshmen 55
Davidson 27, Freshmen 24
Lenoir-Rhyne 26, Belmont Abbey 19
Elon 35, Statesville Hi 19
Monograms 27, V. P. I. (fresh) 18

Davidson Wrestlers 15 1-2, Concord “Y” 1 1-2

Wildcat Wrestlers Whip Concord Team
Matmen Subdue “Y” Team for Second Time

In the second wrestling bout of the season on January 31, the Davidson grapplers overcame the Concord Y. M. C. A team 15 1-2 to 1 1-2. The Davidson team won one match by a fall and three on time decisions, with Herriott and his opponent fighting extra time to a draw. On account of the Concord team’s failure to have entries in the light-weight and heavyweight classes, these matches were not held. In the 118-pound class, Cowan won his match on time decision. Flythe in the 128-pound class was the only wrestler to win his match with a fall. Brown and Russell won their matches by time decisions in the 138-pound and 148-pound classes respectively. After the bout, Captain Hill and Warren of the Davidson team staged an exhibition match.

Oh yes, please DO NOT CORRECT this sentence or tell what is the matter with it!!!

Shepherd, f 0 0
Calhoun, f 1 0
Rice 2
Rusk 2
Mooney 4
Wilson 0 0
Donaldson, f 3
Johnston, g 3 1 7
Brown (c) 2
Goodson, g 0 0
Mebyer 1
Moore 2 2
Crawford 2 0 0

Total 12
Total 10 7 27

Referee: Rawson (Georgia.)

THE S & W Cafeteria are catering to you
CHARLOTTE ASHEVILLE KNOXVILLE RALEIGH ATLANTA

February Athletic Events

Spring Football
Three or four games between Reds and Blacks. One every Saturday beginning about February 23.

Basketball
Feb. 7—Duke University at Davidson.
Feb. 8—Oak Ridge Fresh here.
Feb. 11—Guilford at Davidson.
Feb. 11—Oak Ridge Fresh there.
Feb. 12—V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va.
Feb. 12—V. P. I. Fresh there.
Feb. 13—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.
Feb. 13—W. & L. Fresh there.
Feb. 14—W. & L. at Lexington, Va.
Feb. 14—V. M. I. Fresh there.
Feb. 15—University of Virginia at Charlottesville, Va.
Feb. 15—University of Virginia Fresh there.
Feb. 16—Lynchburg at Lynchburg, Va.
Feb. 20—Wake Forest at Davidson.
Feb. 21—Duke University at Durham.
Feb. 21—Erskine Fresh there.
Feb. 22—Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Feb. 23—N. C. State at Raleigh, N. C.

Wrestling
Feb. 9—V. M. I. there.
Feb. 9—Fresh vs. Oak Ridge there.
Feb. 12—University of Carolina there.
Feb. 16—N. C. State here.
Feb. 23—Duke here. (Fresh schedule incomplete.)

Davidson Y Basketball
Feb. 8—Kannapolis Y there.
Feb. 12—Wingate College there.
Feb. 15—Greensboro Cone Memorial Y there.

Boxing
Feb. 19-20—Inter-class tournament.

Volleyball
Feb. 15—Inter-class tournament.

Grapplers to Meet Strong Foes on Trip
V. M. I. and Carolina to be Met on Trip

Saturday, Captain Tom Hill and the Davidson wrestlers will meet the V. M. I. team at Lexington. They are scheduled to leave here Friday and to wrestle there Saturday. Monday, they will leave Lexington and journey to Chapel Hill where they will meet the Carolina grapplers on Tuesday. They will return to the Davidson campus Wednesday.

Last year the Wildcats lost to the V. M. I. aggregation due to an unintentional but costly decision of the referee who awarded the match to a V. M. I. man after Herriott had pinned his shoulders to the mat. The final count was 9 1-2 to 13 1-2 in favor of the cadets. Christenbury jumped from the 155-pound class to the unlimited and threw Hasse for the only fall of the encounter. Flythe got a time advantage on his opponent while Jeff Garison, captain of the team, tied a beautiful match to account for Davidson's other points. The Wildcats with six of last year’s men back in the line are due to go well against the Cadets. Hasse, Smith, Woodward, and others are back for V. M. I.

The Cats emerged on the long end of a 13 1-2 to 7 1-2 score after the Carolina match last year. Brown, Christenbury, and Hill all won their matches on time advantages. Flythe and Garison duplicated their performances against V. M. I. Flythe winning on time and Garison tying Abbot in one of the most thrilling matches ever held in the state. The men who will probably make the trip for Davidson are: Cowan, Flythe, Brown, Herriot, Brohard, Brock, Christenbury, Hill, and Warren.

If ten men are equally smart, and one is astonished by his own smartness as to think he should notice it too, he is a young intellectual.

Currie Returns
John Currie, ex-Captain of the Davidsonian Track Team and now President of the Davidson Athletic Association, re-entered school on Wednesday morning and is registered for the Spring Semester. Currie is the dash champion of the Carolinas and his return means much toward a successful track season. He expects to start workouts immediately under the supervision of Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, varsity track coach.

Pritchett Sponsors Boxing Tournament
Each Class to Put Team in Ring

The latest thing in the way of class competition will be a boxing tournament to be sponsored by Capt. Norton G. Pritchett sometime in the near future. Though no final statement has been issued as to the details of this event, the tentative plan is to have each of the four divisions of the student body represented in classes ranging from one hundred and fifteen pounds to heavyweight. Those selected to take part in the contest as representatives of their respective classes will begin a period of intensive training under the direction of Capt. Pritchett which will last for about ten days or two weeks. At the end of this time, the tournament proper will begin. Scores will be based on a system of points for placing; ten points for first place, five for second, three for third, and one for fourth, the class making the highest score to be declared the winner.

Although as yet the only thing at stake is the class championship, it is possible that a cup for the winning class and medals for winners in the different divisions may be obtained.

He united the country with nails

BEN FRANKLIN made the horseshoe nail a symbol of the importance of little things. “The kingdom was lost and all for the want of a horseshoe nail,” goes one of his wise sayings. So when he became Postmaster General, he knew full well the need for proper horseshoeing as one step in punctual mail schedules.

The care given to details can still make or break a great plan. In the telephone industry, for example, the development of compact paper insulation helped to make possible the small diameter cable and therefore the vast underground plant necessary to serve large cities. A multiplicity of details, from the testing of long fiber cotton to the “voice with the smile,” offer a continual challenge to the Bell System men who unite the nation with telephones.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of 19,000,000 inter-connecting telephones

OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN