Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN March 7, 1929.

Tennessee Club Has Successful Meeting
Committee Provides Refreshments for Members of Club

Among the most outstanding social events at the close of the winter season was the first meeting for the year of the Tennessee Club. The president, William Marvin Regen, vulgarly known as Bill and “Sporty,” of Franklin, Tenn., (Bill says an interurban connects Franklin with its largest suburb, Nashville), presided at the meeting. After C. N. Burch reported that he had carefully kept the terms of the sentence, passed upon him at the last meeting, of residing in Memphis for the rest of his days and the rest of his nights, the feature of the program was presented, consisting of an address by Joseph Gardner. Mr. Gardner first reviewed the early history of the colonies, leading up to the first settlements on the Watauga; he then proceeded to give a detailed account of the early deeds of the pioneers; continued in a thorough discussion of the Revolutionary days; then dealt with the early national period of the state; passing then to a careful relation of the events of the Civil War, and all subsequent events. He concluded with a relation of the lives of all the governors of the state and a eulogy of the valorous men of the Volunteer State.

After the club had joined in singing the international anthem of the commonwealth of the state, “O Tennessee,” a magnificent pennant and knee-high loving cup was voted to be given to the delegation from Bristol, five in number, for having the most members present. It was, however, stipulated that these awards should only be made in case the treasury justified the expenditure. The entertainment committee, E. C. Close, W. G. McGavock, and “R. F. D.” Miller, arranged to serve sandwiches for nourishment. Those present were—oh, yes! they also had on hand candy, apples, chewing-gum, oranges, Eskimo pies, bananas, various and sundry cakes, coca-cola, chocolate milk and all other articles sold by magazines, news-butches except.

Those present were Herman King, J. B. Moriarity, Mac King, Ed Close, F. D. Miller, Bill McGavock, C. N. Burch, Henry McFadyen, Albert Cowan, Don King, Spencer McCallie, Newton Dicks, John Regen, R. L. and Unter Houston, Bill Regen, V. B. Groseclose, H. W. Ryburn.

COLLEGIATE QUIPS
(Continued from page 2)

The State College five swept Duke off the court and won the Southern conference title Tuesday night. The State five led at the half and with the final results announced the title of Southern Conference Champ was awarded to N.-C. State. And so on and so on, this is done to try to forestall the State boys in the publication of this item. The Davidsonian wishes to congratulate State on her victory and also to rejoice in the fact that it was two North Carolina teams that furnished the teams for the finals of the tournament.

From the P. C. Blue Stocking:
Not in all colleges is the magazine greeted with destructive criticism. Down in P. C. the reviewer argues the case of the magazine and recommends it. The review of the college literary effort is not all a “Bed of roses,” whatever that may mean, but the review does not set out to tear to pieces each and every article that was printed. One statement made seems true, “The reviewer is inclined to think that those who are handing out brick-bats—are those who do the same concerning any College Davidsonians At Inauguration

Among those Davidson men who attended the presidential inauguration in Washington, Monday, were: W. F. Gaffney, W. H. Mathews, D. C. Hunter, W. N. Middleton, J. V. D. Middleton, W. H. Morrison, and L. L. Boyd.

Prof. Currie Speaks To Ministerial Band
Life a Service of Choices Involving True Valuation

“I do not wish to aid you in choosing a life’s calling, because you have already done that, but I do wish to attempt to confirm you in the choice which you have made,” said Prof. Archibald Currie, in speaking to the Ministerial Band on last Sunday afternoon. “The thing about which I want to speak to you is ‘Values.’ Life is a series of choices which involve valuation and we take the most valuable. We are choosing roads to follow and there is always danger lest we choose the wrong one. Some roads might not lead to the greatest material gains but those which carry to intellectual and spiritual goals are the most valuable. The question before us is to choose the greatest value and to find what that value is. When the question arises as to whether we shall act for the present life or to equip ourselves for the future life, most people choose the present life. Isaiah in the 16th chapter and 14th verse speaks of the man who made the error of putting the wrong things first. This man satisfied his physical wants first and thought that he was content but, he was not. His spirit was not satisfied but he had only the residue of the tree which he had cut to make worship. He was only a heathen but we would have had more respect for him had he worshipped his god first. There are many people who put the material before the spiritual but they are never happy. The minister devotes the best part of his life to God and uses what is left to satisfy his physical needs. There is where happiness lies. Isaiah called the man who made a god with the part of the tree which he had left over foolish. With our lives given over to God we are not to be discouraged when doubts assail us.

Columbus, O.—(CNA)—"The Journal of Higher Education,” a magazine designed to deal with the problems of colleges and universities, will be published by Ohio State University, it was announced recently. The new magazine will be national in scope and a score of educators from all parts of the country will serve as associate editors to Dr. W. W. Charters, new director of the university’s bureau of educational research, who has been named acting editor. It will be the only publication of its kind devoted exclusively to educational problems. The Ohio State University Press will publish the magazine.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DRAKE SPEAKS
Volunteer Band Sends Out Two Deputations Sunday

The Volunteer Band met Sunday afternoon in Shearer Hall. Ben Drake had charge of the meeting, leading the devotional and giving a talk on “Church and Missions.” In his talk Drake brought out four points which he used to discuss his subject, namely: Missionary obedience is essential to the vitality of the Church; Missionary obedience is the antidote to the selfishness of Church and individual; it quickens the Church with fresh proofs of the living Christ; it lifts the Church to her Spiritual best. Around these points, he built an interesting and inspiring talk.

Two deputations were sent out Sunday. One gave a program at the Presbyterian Church of Statesville, while the other had charge of the service at the Presbyterian Church of Cornelius.

The feature of the program of the Eumanean Literary Society at its meeting on the 28th of February was a tribute to Woodrow Wilson given by R. E. Kell. A very interesting talk was given by M. M. King on the Peace Times Work of the Army. It was decided by the Society to turn over the right of electing the Marshals for commencement to the Junior and Senior classes.

At the election of officers held February the 21st, the following men were elected: President, T. E. Hill; Vice-President, E. E. Marsh; Secretary, J. F. Preston; Treasurer, J. C. Mathews; Reviewer, W. H. Bailey.

Philanthropic
At the election of officers for the third term the Phi Societychose the following: President, DeWitt Helm; Vice-President, J. C. Lawrence; Secretary, Albert McClure; First Critic, Frank Hall; Supervisors, J. W. MacCutchan and T. H. Hall.

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Eumanean

This was by far the best year.

Young Son: "Gosh, mother, that lady on the stage seems awful nervous.”
Mother: “Hush, sonny, that’s Gilda Gray.”

TO VOLUNTEERS

Eumanean Sends Out Deputation Groups

Ramseur Entertains With Saw at Poplar Tent Church

Two deputations were sent out by the Davidson “Y” on last Sunday; one was to the Poplar Tent Church and the other was the usual speaker which is sent to the Charlotte “Y” each Sunday. The group sent to the Poplar Tent Church held a Christian meeting that night which proved to be a great success. During the meeting, talks were made by W. R. Hill, W. H. Bailey, and Robert Turner which were enjoyed very much by those present. The feature of the meeting, however, was a number of pieces played by Jack Ramseur on the musical saw. This novel type of instrument proved to be a great hit among all the listeners and several encores were given to the musician. The people of the church were so pleased with the meeting that the students were cordially invited to return on the next possible occasion.

Decision Day was held by the Charlotte “Y” on the past Sunday and Allan Frew, representative from the local “Y” spoke to a large group of Charlotte boys.

GARDNER WINS HIGH JUMP AT CAROLINA

Dumas Captures Third Place in This Event

J. E. Gardner and W. L. Dumas, Davidson's only representatives at the University of North Carolina indoor track meet at Chapel Hill last Saturday, dominated their event by winning first and third places respectively in the high jump competition. Durant, Georgia Tech high jumper, was good for second place. Gardner's winning leap cleared the bar at 5 feet seven inches. Captain Pritchett, track coach, had intended to send his entire squad to the meet but due to inclement weather during the past week, the local cinder artists were not in the proper condition for competitive running. Leftwich, Wildcat weight tosser, was kept out of the meet because of a slight injury to his arm.

Luckies couldn't have found our way with the Three Wise Men.

Testimonials

“We use Camels,”

“DRUGS” “Prescriptions”

Make Our Store Your Store

A COMPLETE DRUG STORE IN A GOOD TOWN

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

"SODA" “Drug Sundries”

Make This Store Your Headquarters

STATIONERY: Printed and Embossed ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS

Aubrey Brown

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. Charlotte, N. C.

New Shipment of Popular Movie Books Just Received

SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE

W. S. HENDERSON Davidson, N. C.

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE

S & W Cafeterias are catering to you

ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

Hypnosis Popular As Fad On Campus

Several Men Prove to Be Successful Hypnotizers

With the advent of the second semester and the study of hypnosis in the class on abnormal psychology comes the usual wave of hypnotizers and fake subjects on the campus. Students of psychology begin to look for freshmen with submissive attitudes whom they may dominate easily. During the past week and a half, all willing freshmen have been sought and tried, and the hard subjects eliminated. Good subjects are very much in demand at present. Among those who have been successful in their attempts at hypnotizing are Frank Hall, Fred Poag, Albert Halverstadt, John Melton, and Ellis E. Marsh. There are several difficulties they have to cope with. They have difficulty in persuading subjects to submit to trial; in trial and failure; and in the occasional freshman who pretends that he is “under.” A peculiar complication has also developed in one of the good subjects who, it is reported, has promised his girl he will not submit to hypnotism again. The Saturday and Sunday night diversion found in the usual “bull session” has changed to large gatherings to observe the antics of the freshmen. One of the most interesting phases of hypnotism is found in the results of post-hypnotic influences. While the subject is still under the control of the hypnotizer, he tells him to perform certain actions after he has been awakened. No matter how unusual or silly the order may be, the subject always finds some excuse to execute it.

COSMIC CHAOS

There is a new custom practiced by Picture News agencies which is deserving of criticism. Bootlegging is getting to be quite “the thing.” When a reporter for the New York World strapped a camera on his ankle and took a picture of the electrocution of Ruth Snyder, he was lauded as clever. When Paramount News smuggled pictures of Lindbergh's accident against the express command of the Mexican Government out of courtesy for the American Ambassador and the Ace, it is a different matter. Lindbergh has persistently refused to capitalize on his popularity; corporations should be willing to follow his precedent, out of a gesture of politeness at least.

It is a rare day when people walk the streets of Venice. Generally, they row or swim. In the coldest winter that Europe has had for many centuries, the canals of Venice froze over for the first time. Ye olde gondoliers tooke ye whole daye offe.

Albert Frank, admitting his relations as a spy with Germany during the war, is held without bail in Belgium. Criminal, defrauder, and embezzler, he is a dangerous man. Even the Fatherland could not place implicit trust in him. Failing to obtain a copy of the Franco-Belgian treaty, he made one, offering it to his superiors. It was published in many papers before its true origin was known. Secret operatives as a rule hide behind their secrecy and little can be proved if they choose to change horses in the middle of the stream. Their activities are never forgotten.

Hey, you need a haircut. Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real College haircut. He has three real barbers.

NORTON BROS. in Post Office block—Three first-class workmen

LEARN THE PIANO IN TEN LESSONS — TENOR-BANJO OR MANDOLIN IN FIVE LESSONS

Without nerve-racking, heart-breaking scales and exercises. You are taught to play by note in regular professional chord style. In your very first lesson, you will be able to play a popular number by note.

Send For it on Approval

The “Hallmark Self-Instructor,” is the title of this method. Eight years were required to perfect this great work. The entire course with the necessary examination sheets, is bound in one volume. The first lesson is unsealed which the student may examine and be his own “JUDGE and JURY.” The later part of the “Hallmark Self-Instructor,” is sealed. Upon the student returning any copy of the “Hallmark Self-Instructor” with the seal unbroken, we will refund in full all money paid. This amazing Self-Instructor will be sent anywhere. You do not need to send any money. When you receive this new method of teaching music, deposit with the Postman the sum of ten dollars. If you are not entirely satisfied, the money paid will be returned in full, upon written request. The Publishers are anxious to place this “Self-Instructor” in the hands of music lovers all over the country, and is in a position to make an attractive proposition to agents. Send for your copy today. Address The “Hallmark Self-Instructor” Station G, Post Office, Box 111, New York, N. Y.

Davidson Theatre

Monday and Tuesday

JOHN GILBERT in “Desert Fires”

Boys, Don’t Miss This One!

HERE IS ANOTHER

Wednesday

OLIVE BORDEN in “Tropic Madness”