Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN February 28, 1929

ALUMNI

Alumni To Express Their Opinion Regarding Next President Of Davidson.

Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, President of Davidson Alumni Association, Writes Letter

QUESTIONS ASKED

Alumni Secretary Will Compile Data and Report to President, Who is Member of Nominating Committee

The office of the Alumni Secretary is now being flooded with letters from Davidson alumni all over the country, who
are writing in response to a letter mailed out Monday to the entire alumni constituency by Dr. Hamilton W. McKay,
‘06, president of the Davidson College Alumni Association, who wrote the Davidson men in regard to the next president of
the college. Dr. McKay told them that he had been appointed the nominating committee by virtue of the fact that
he was president of the Alumni Association, and that he was addressing a letter to them with the idea of
obtaining a cross-section of alumni opinion, which would enable him to crystallize his own, as well as be of benefit
to the committee.

Four direct questions were asked: “What type of man do you want as next President of Davidson? Do you want
a minister? Do you want an executive and business man? Do you want primarily an educator?” He urged them not
to adopt the policy of “letting George do it” and then criticize the action of the committee and board of
trustees afterward.

Toward the close of his communication, Dr. McKay asked the alumni to name the men they would like to see
nominated, and stated that both their opinions and suggestions were to be treated confidentially. All of this information is being
sent to the Alumni Secretary, who is filing the letters, and will later compile and tabulate the information received.

Davidson Alumni Medical Leaders

Many of Them Took Prominent Part in Tri-State Medical Meeting

Davidson College alumni took a prominent part in the recent meeting of the Tri-State Medical Society in Greensboro, many of
them reading papers, or discussing others which had been presented. Among the honors accorded Davidson men was that bestowed upon
Dr. C. C. Orr, ‘95, of Asheville, who was elected a member of the Executive Council for the ensuing year.
Two retiring members of that body are Davidson alumni: Dr. L. G. Beall, '00, of Black Mountain, and Dr. M.
H. Wyman, ‘08, of Columbia, S.C.

Papers were read before the medical society by Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99, of Charlotte; Dr. DeWitt Kluttz, '16, of
Greenville, S.C.; Dr. Oren Moore, ’08, of Charlotte; and Dr. L. M. Fetner, ‘11, of Charlotte. Dr. Hamilton W. McKay,
’06, of Charlotte, and Dr. M. H. Wyman, ‘08, of Columbia, S.C., led discussions following the presentation of papers.

Memorials on the death of two Davidson alumni during the past year were prepared and read. Dr. C. C. Orr,
’95, of Asheville, and Dr. J. Allison Hodges, ’79, of Richmond, Va., were designated to read the messages. The two
Davidson men were Dr. C. L. Summers, ’86, of Baltimore, Md., and Dr. H. M. Stuckey, ‘88, of Sumter, S.C.

Dr. Oren Moore, ’08, of Charlotte, was vice-president of the Tri-State Medical Society during the past year.

Rev. W. G. Somerville, '16, of Guthriesville, S.C., is reported improving in a hospital at Rock Hill, S.C., following an
accident a short time ago. Mr. Somerville was attempting to kill a rat in his car, and in his endeavors
lost control of his car, hitting a telephone post. Severe lacerations and bruises were suffered.

D. W. Hancock, ’28, who has been with the Hickory (N.C.) Record is now in Raleigh with the Associated Press,
and has been assigned to cover the proceedings of the legislature.

New Addresses

Dr. W. T. Gibson, ’05, Bailey, N.C.
Rev. Alex. Martin, ‘05, care Lunsford Richardson, R.F.D. 2, DeLand, Fla.
D. W. Hancock, ‘28, Associated Press, Raleigh.
Geo. N. Neel, '22, Troutman.
T. G. Purcell, '26, British-American Tobacco Co., Petersburg, Va.
K. G. Tucker, '23, Mount Calvary Church, 7720 Lyons Ave., Philadelphia, Pa.
D. O. Westbrook, Jr., St. Wilmington, Dr. J. S. Brown, Jr., '21, St., Los Angeles, Calif.
C. W. Robinson, Jr., '22, 3900 Spruce St., Philadelphia, Pa.
R. H. Littlejohn, ‘25, American Surety Co., 100 Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Rye Hy Brown, 2A, 617 cor Ith St., Philadelphia, Pa.
Chas. R. Vance, Nashville, Tenn.
R. W. Overland, ’25, Reynolds Investing Co., 65 Broadway, New York, N.Y.
S. W. Woods, ‘14, Bat Cave, N.C.
Chesley Watkins, ‘09, 1418 1. Boulevard, Charlotte.
T. F. Staley, New York Stock Exchange, Specialist, New York, N.Y.
Rev. N. H. Williams, 1900, Fort Valley, Ga.
Prof. O. P. Hart, Miami, Miami, Fla.
Dr. S. G. Lowe, ‘12, Wm. Byrd Hotel, Richmond, Va.
Rev. ‘28, 011 Walnut 1414 S. Hope ‘21, Caldwell & Co., ‘10, University of

BEEN HONORED BY BANKING CONCERNS

Leopold Chambliss, ’18, and Emery Flinn, ’19, Receive Noteworthy Recognition

ARE YOUNG ALUMNI

Chambliss is Connected With Fidelity Union Trust Company of Newark, N.J., and Flinn With Miami Bank

Two comparatively recent alumni, Leopold Chambliss, ‘18, of Newark, N.J., and Emery Flinn, ‘19, of Miami, Fla., have been signally
honored by financial institutions, according to information which has been obtained from the Trust Companies Magazine and The Miami (Fla.)
Herald, respectively, which publications carried photographs of the two Davidson men.

Mr. Chambliss, formerly assistant secretary and treasurer of the Fidelity Union Trust Co., of Newark, N.J., has been promoted to
the position of assistant vice-president in charge of new business and advertising of this corporation, which is reputed to be
the largest in that state. The First National Bank of Miami, Fla., at a recent meeting, added two new officers,
and one of them was Mr. Flinn, who was elected vice-president to be in charge of the securities and bond
department.

According to the Trust Magazine, Mr. Chambliss was one of the originators of the personal solicitation for trust business. He
organized the original trust new business unit for the Guaranty Trust Company of New York and was for a number
of years in charge of the work for that concern. Previous to that time he was connected with the publicity
department of the Guaranty Trust Company.

Since leaving Davidson in 1918, Mr. Chambliss has enjoyed a wide and varied experience. He was a psychological examiner in
the Army, served as a reporter on Tennessee newspapers, was at one time head of the English department at McCallie
School in Chattanooga, Tenn., and before going to New York he was assistant chief of the conservation section, Bureau of
War Risk Insurance. In 1923 he was in North Carolina on a six months’ leave of absence to organize the
publicity and new business work of the Wachovia Bank & Trust Company. He was active in all branches of this
institution.

Mr. Flinn has likewise had a varied experience since leaving Davidson as a graduate in 1919. He was also in
the United States Army, in the artillery department, returning to the college after his discharge to complete his work.

SIX MEETINGS ON SUCCESSIVE DATES IS PRESENT PLAN

Richmond, Washington, New York, Boston, Philadelphia and Baltimore is Itinerary

McCONNELL INVITED

Approximately 275 Davidson Alumni Living Along East Coast Will Have Opportunity to Attend These Meetings

Six alumni meetings in six nights and in six different cities along the east coast is the tentative itinerary of
the Alumni Secretary for the week of March 11th to 16th. The New York Association definitely set the time of
its meeting as March 13th, and the secretary immediately wrote the presidents of the organized associations in Richmond, Washington and
Baltimore, and other alumni in Philadelphia and Boston, suggesting dates for the alumni to gather. Confirmation from some of these
have already been received. Lists of all Davidson alumni located in the six cities have already been mailed out from
the alumni office, and corrections and additions are being received. Approximate numbers of alumni residing in or near the cities
are Richmond 60; New York, 85; Boston, 30; Philadelphia, 35; Washington, 30, and Baltimore 30. Approximately 270 alumni will have
access to these meetings.

Dr. J. M. McConnell, head of the history department of the college, has been invited by the New York Alumni
Association to meet with them on March 13th, and if he decides to accept their invitation he will probably attend
other meetings en route to and from New York. Rev. W. I. Hill, D.D., 1900, is president of the Richmond
Association; R. S. Marshall, ‘09, the Washington alumni; Dr. T. P. Sprunt, ‘03, is leader of the Baltimore group, and
W. P. Anderson, ‘07, is president of the New York Association. J. P. Hendrix, '25, of Philadelphia, and W. S.
Woods, of Boston, have been written regarding meetings in those cities.

The dates of suggested meetings follow:
March 11, Richmond, Va.
March 12, Washington, D.C.
March 13, New York, N.Y.
March 14, Boston, Mass.
March 15, Philadelphia, Pa.
March 16, Baltimore, Md. Following this, he attended the Georgia School of Technology in Atlanta. His first position was with
the Goodrich Tire Co., of Charlotte. From Charlotte, he went to Charleston, S.C., and was connected with the General Asbestos
and Rubber Co., of that city. Some years ago, he went to Tampa, where he started a real estate business
for himself, and only recently went to Miami to continue his personal business. He was also the personal representative of
Lindsey Hopkins, an Atlanta capitalist. The fact that he was made a vice-president with no previous connection with the First
National Bank is an added honor. His business included real estate and insurance.

A long interview with Col. E. T. Brown, ‘79, was recently published in The Asheville Citizen. Col. Brown is known
as the “sage of the Valley of Virginia” and has been a leader in the scenic development in the country
around Endless Caverns. He was en route to Florida to spend the winter when he was in Asheville.

Alumni Personals

Dr. J. S. Brown, Jr., ‘21, is now resident surgeon in the Lutheran Hospital at Los Angeles, Calif. Three Davidson
alumni, seniors at Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia, have received their hospital appointments. J. M. Adams, ‘23, will go to
the Episcopal Hospital in Philadelphia; R. H. Morris, '24, will go to the Germantown Hospital in the same city, and
W. K. McCain, '22, will go to Atlantic City.

V. Za. Cannon, '04, has resigned as chairman of the Concord City School Board after serving as head of that
body for ten years. Rev. C. S. Hollandsworth, ’20, and Mrs. Hollandsworth, of Raleigh, announce the birth of a son,
James Reid, on February 16th. R. B. Wing, president of the class of 1919, has already started to work on
the re-union of the 1919 men next commencement. Contemporary classes returning to Davidson are 1918, 1920, and 1921.

Rev. James L. Fowle, D.D., ‘18, now pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church in St. Louis, Mo., has accepted a
call to the First Presbyterian Church in Chattanooga, Tenn., and will assume his duties on April 12. Judge J. E.
Boyd, ‘66, of Greensboro, recently celebrated his 84th birthday. Judge Boyd is among the few Davidson alumni who have passed
the four-score period and are still living. His classmate, W. A. Smith, of Ansonville, returned to Davidson last Home-Coming Day.

Among the alumni visiting on the campus recently were Rev. J. C. Story, of Marion, and Dr. C. C. Orr,
of Asheville, both of the '05 class; S. S. Story, '22, of Marion; W. S. Shepherd, Jr., '23, of Winston-Salem;
P. J. Story, ’24, of Marion; C. S. Furches, '25, of Greensboro; J. A. Lake, ‘25, of Hartford, Conn.; A.
T. Rowe, '25, of Fredericksburg, Va.; R. B. Parker, '26, of Rome, Ga.; D. G. Wilson, ‘26, of Memphis, Tenn.;
Geo. W. Smith, '26, of New Haven, Conn.; H. H. Roseberry, '26, of Baltimore, Md.; W. R. Story, '27, of
Marion; Harlee Branch, Jr., '27, of Atlanta, Ga.; H. M. Arrowood, '28, of Shelby; J. P. McKnight, '28, of Charlotte;
L. K. Pritchett, '28, of Banner Elk; A. M. Smith, Jr., '28, of Travelers Rest, S. C.; J. S. Foster,
Jr., '28, of Winston-Salem; B. W. McAulay, '28, of Charlotte, and B. C. Kilgore, '30, of Paducah, Ky.

Rev. N. Summerrell, D.D., '73, has resigned as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of New Bern after 20 years
of service. The congregation immediately elected him pastor emeritus. Dr. Summerrell has been in bad health for the past several
years, having suffered two strokes of paralysis. Dr. Frank A. Sharpe, ‘10, and Mrs. Sharpe, of Greensboro, announce the birth
of a son, Frank A., Jr., on February 15th.

STATIONERY Printed and Embossed ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS Aubrey Brown Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. Charlotte, N. C.

Hon. J. Bayard Clarke, ‘05, of Fayetteville, is now in Washington, D. C., where he will live during the next
few years as a member of the new Congress from the Sixth District of North Carolina. Mr. Clarke will have
a Davidson alumnus as his private secretary, J. A. Thames, '18, who has been secretary to the retiring congressman from
that district. Mr. Chase Brenizer, ‘90, of Charlotte, has gone to New York where he will undergo treatment on his
hip, which was broken a year ago. C. M. Davis, ’24, has been elected treasurer of the Junior Civic Club,
of Winston-Salem—a recent organization perfected in that city. A. I. Henderson, ‘16, is a stockholder in the new corporation, Henderson
Investment and Securities Co., of Charlotte; Ryan McBryde, ‘11, is a stockholder in the new corporation, Raeford Lumber and Supply
Co., of Raeford; and Thomas T. Allison, 1900, is a stockholder in the Charlotte Real Estate Exchange, of Charlotte.

Dr. J. A. Shaw, ‘19, and Mrs. Shaw, of Fayetteville, announce the birth of a daughter, Marie Avery, on February
14th.

Rev. R. A. McLeod Is New President Davidson Alumnus Chosen to Head Presbyterian Junior College at Maxton

Rev. R. A. McLeod, a graduate of Davidson College in the class of 1909, stated clerk of the Synod of
North Carolina, and at present connected with the Elise High School at Hemp, N. C., has been chosen as acting
president of the Presbyterian Junior College for Men which is to be established at Maxton, and open for enrollment next
fall. This action was taken at a meeting of the board of trustees of the newly created institution, which meeting
was held in Maxton on February 19th. Rev. Mr. McLeod will co-operate with the executive committee in selecting his faculty,
including an athletic coach, and will make all plans necessary for the opening of the college in September. In addition
to his duties as acting president, Mr. McLeod will serve as head of the department of religious education.

The president of the Presbyterian Junior College was born in 1870, and entered Davidson from Carthage, N. C., in 1905.
He graduated in 1909, and immediately went to Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va., where he obtained his degree as
a bachelor of divinity. He has held several pastorates in Virginia and North Carolina and is a World War Veteran.

TEXAS ALUMNI IN AND NEAR AUSTIN MET ON FEB. 8TH Dr. George Summey, ’70, and Rev. O. C. Williamson, '18,
Hosts at Dinner DISCUSS DAVIDSON No Association Perfected—Texas Alumni Now Have Honor of Being Most Distant Group to Have Meeting

A group of Davidson College alumni, residing in Austin, Texas, and vicinity, assembled at the home of Rev. O. C.
Williamson, ‘18, in that city on the night of February 8th, to renew and promote Davidson fellowship and ideals. Rev.
Mr. Williamson and Rev. George L. Summey, D.D., ’70, also of Austin, were hosts at dinner. No attempt was made
to perfect an organization of alumni in that city, but the object was to bring the Davidson men of that
section closer together, and to discuss affairs of their Alma Mater. Reports sent to Davidson state that during the dinner
and for several hours afterward, the time was spent in talking, with the college the center of attention.

Alumni attending the dinner in Austin were Rev. George Summey, D.D., '70, former Moderator of the General Assembly and now
professor of Systematic Theology in Austin Theological Seminary; Dr. J. B. Wharey, honor man of the class of ‘92, professor
of English in the University of Texas, Austin; Rev. W. R. Minter, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of
Austin and at present Moderator of the Synod of Texas; Rev. C. B. Yeargan, ‘06, pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church of Yoakum, Texas; Rev. E. M. Munroe, ‘08, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Taylor, Texas, and chairman
of the Synod’s Committee for the Special Evangelistic Campaign; Dr. C. F. Arrowood, ‘00, professor of History of Education in
the University of Texas, Austin; Rev. O. C. Williamson, ‘18, in charge of the Mexican Department of Austin Theological Seminary,
and Rev. M. C. Yeargan, ‘26, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Anson, Texas, and member of the senior class
in Austin Theological Seminary.

Other Davidson alumni invited to the dinner, but who could not be present were Prof. A. N. McCallum, '88, Superintendent
of City Schools in Austin; J. W. Reid, '89, of Austin, ex-Senator, and Michael Mar Yosip, '02, pastor of the
Presbyterian Church of Temple, Texas.

The Texas alumni have the honor of being the most distant group from Davidson who have met together in a
meeting. Dr. W. T. Gibson, ‘05, has recently moved from Batesburg, S. C., to Bailey, N. C., where he has
opened offices. T. F. Staley, ’25, has been made a specialist on the New York Stock Exchange.

Make This Store Your Headquarters Stationery, Note Books and Athletic Supplies BOOKS AND MAGAZINES NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK SUPERIOR SODA
SERVICE W. S. HENDERSON Davidson, N. C.
