March 22, 1929

CLASS OF 1930

The Class of 1930 has reached the point where reminiscing will require more thought and attention than plans for the future. The Junior class reaches the crisis of the college course and the point where each member finds himself speeding on to the climax, the point, Junior Speaking, that has been looked forward to since the winter of 1926.

Indelibly stamped on the memory and spirit of the class and counted among the first activities of the Class of '30, is the dubbing of the football team of 1926 as State Champions. The Wildcats’ fighting stamina and spirit were absorbed by the freshmen of that year. Years have passed but never such glorious victories as a ten to nothing and twenty to nothing win over Carolina and Duke that season. Along with study came the usual line of freshman pranks. The Cat growled, scratched, and killed all that stood in her way.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The team broke even in the number of games won and lost and gave Carl Pritchett as the star of the battles. Wrestling went much better in winning every match. The annual inter-class meet resulted in a defeat for the class by a one-point margin at the hands of the class of '29.

March 20, 1928, the colors “blue and white” were the chosen class colors. The annual banquet was then held in Efird's dining hall with Frank Brown acting as toastmaster. Considered among the greater successes may come the notice of the smallest withdrawal list in many years. During the Sophomore year, the list withdrawn from the student body amounted to only seventeen. However, time continued to fly by and others dropped from the roll of the class of 1930. Returning from the summer holidays of 1928, the Junior class had one hundred and sixteen members out of the one hundred and eighty-four of the preceding year. This aided in the decrease of the college roll when there was a drop from six hundred and forty-two to six hundred.

With the entrance into the Junior year came recognition and reputation for some members. In some cases, it was national honor and in others either southern, state, or school. Whittle stepped away with the honors in track.

In September Nineteen Twenty-Six, the class of '30 was born. Over two hundred was this class in its very infancy, before the days of the grim reaper; examinations. The first semester rolled by and the class of 1930 had no guiding hand to lead it through the many treacherous pitfalls of campus life. Then on a bright morn in the month of February, the Court of Control trooped in and announced that class officials were to be elected. Immediately, the class went into a huddle, votes were taken, and out of this balloting came the first class officers. Alan Frew, of Charleston, W. Va., was chosen president; Ben DeArmon, of Charlotte, was chosen vice-president, and Z. V. Long, of Statesville, was elected secretary and treasurer.

Thus the year rolled along, the class, with a leader now, prospering as it had not done before. Soph Day, with its dire happenings, came and became a thing of the past, and suddenly the class awoke to the fact that it was time to elect another group of officers. This time a group which would pilot them through sophomore year. Again heads went together and out of the melee came Carl Pritchett, of Reidsville, N. C., president; Tom Brohard, of Grafton, W. Va., vice-president, and Frank Brown, of Greensboro, secretary and treasurer.

A whole year rolls by—Soph Banquet—Holidays—Exams—More Holidays—and Soph Day—and fortunes and misfortunes together under the guiding hand of these capable officers. As the spring drew nigh, thoughts again turned to elections, and through the dust and smoke, came Z. V. Long, of Statesville, to serve as president, Heath Whittle, of Atlanta, our new vice-president, and Bill.McGuire, of Franklin, N.C., as secretary and treasurer. The year is nearing a close and these men who have served our class so faithfully in the past must go on to higher positions on the campus. It is with pride that the class of Nineteen-Thirty looks back on its officers; the men who have been chosen, and their capability at handling the trust placed upon them by the class. One more group of officers will lead the class through the mysteries of the senior year, and out into the mysteries of the outside world. May they be as efficient and capable in the future as they have been in the past.

Copyright by Koop

THE LONELY COLUMN STANDS

Written on seeing the one column remaining at night.

The old red tank. The bell was practically of the class. Pulled from its roost in the belfry by a few hilarious freshmen who were celebrating the football championship. In athletics, we found Pritchett a strong forward on the basketball team, with Nunan and Lafferty following close behind the winner of the high hurdles and holder of the southern conference record in that event at the Tech Relays. He is fast and bids to make the cinder paths hot.

The Sophs of the Class of '29 received a challenge for a snow battle after the largest snowfall on record for the past four years. The battle raged and the class of '30 gave in to the dignity of the upperclassmen. Soph day came with a glorious sun to see '30 riding wooden horses and eventually hiding the greased plank in the woods behind the Fresh Field. Through all these pranks the class emerged successful in that they were the first class permitted to remove their caps before the spring holidays.

Athletics in the freshman year were not so good but material for varsity teams the following years was uncovered. The football team presented an all-state freshman guard in Nat Hunt. The team itself did only fair in winning one game. The basketball cross-country team and Brohard, Brown, and Christenbury performed on the mat. Participating in track we found Beavers, Brohard, Corson, Gardner, Lafferty, Peterson, and Whittle. Tennis secured the services of Haverstadt and Johnson. Along in the line of activities we found Brown, Edelman, Knox, Marsh, Miller, and Williams on the Honor Roll during the Sophomore year. Four sophomores made the debating team and Frew represented Davidson in the State Oratorical Contest. National honor came to one of the Class of '30 when Allan Frew won third place in the National Oratorical Contest held in San Francisco in the summer of 1928. Frew won distinction in representing Davidson at the State contest where he won the right to compete for southern honors at Greenville, S.C. Here he carried Davidson to the far west and returned third best in the United States.

—E. S. Heefner.

Other successes lay in the fact that the R.O.T.C. distinguished rating remained at Davidson for the third consecutive time. The class basketball tournament ended with the sophs victors, having won five straight games. Sometime before the Soph banquet on F. D. MILLER

The only one, the lonely column stands. Today it stood with comrades three— Their years were one and seventy; the sands Of Time’s great hourglass could see No change except in growth of majesty. Once were they portals of an edifice Which had been built with eager hands That worked with fervent purpose not amiss, And reared a dome ere volunteering bands Went North to give themselves to war's demands. Beneath that dome, between those columns four, Those who in later days were shown To be true men, for three score years and more, Trod in and out, at times in cap and gown, Unknowing of their future name’s renown. But devastation came—that stately dome Was seen no more; but firm and fast The columns stood in night and day and gloam— A mighty remnant of a glorious past, An inspiration to the very last. No earlier than this morn with solid shafts They stood together; now the night A single column hides; a breeze now wafts The others’ dust about the one whose plight It is to stand alone till morning's light. And then, ah, then, it too is doomed to fall, And mingle then with their debris— Four relics brought to ruin at hasty call. But hasty? No! for look beyond and see! Not the old—the new foremost shall be! The duty of the old was but to stay. To lead, to guide, inspire the few To see beyond, and mammoth plans to lay. And now they have fulfilled their purpose true, And so—Down with the old, up with the new!