4, THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1929

(Used Through Courtesy of Raleigh News and Observer)

The above is a diagram of how Davidson defeated N. C. State in Raleigh last Saturday. This was drawn by
Reynolds, on the staff of The News and Observer, and was gladly sent to The Davidsonian for use this week.
It clearly shows every detail of the game, and anyone who failed to witness the contest can obtain a comprehensive
idea as to how the ball was booted back and forth, and how Davidson’s two touchdowns were scored.

CLASS STUNT PROGRAM
(Continued from page 1)

Original music will feature the act. In the Senior stunt, the audience is to be entertained by an entirely original
act, of a type which has never been presented before in this school. It is to consist of a strong
man show and a tightrope performance. The tightrope performer has entered Davidson as a senior from another college, and it
is only of late that his ability as an acrobat has been discovered. The best senior talent available has been
obtained for this act in which five men and a girl will take part. The Sunnyland Serenaders will play several
numbers during the evening. Their music will probably be used between the acts of the presentation. At the time of
publication, the plans for the Sophomores' act had not been completed, but they are expected to give an interesting stunt.
It will probably consist of a short play or character sketch. As a whole, stunt night will be well worth
anyone’s time and a large audience is expected. All students and visitors are urged to attend.

ANNUAL GRIDIRON BATTLE
(Continued from page 1)

Moreover, North Carolina State and Citadel have both fallen before the onslaught that they gave the Army recently at West
Point. From their end of the field will be such players as Capt. Thad Brock, Joe McCall, and Walter Fraley.With
a great deal of confidence that Davidson adherents will watch this team go on the field, despite the odds which
are against them, Coaches Younger and Collins are unable, as the paper goes to press, to announce the teams which
will start the game because of various injuries. However, it is probable that the following men will begin the game
today.

Davidson of the Presbyterians. Leading the attack

| Position | Carolina |
|-----------|----------|
| Brock (c) | LE | Holt |
| Raker | LT | Dortch |
| DeCamp | LG | Farris (c) |
| Milton | Center | Lipscomb |
| Mathis | RG | Fysal |
| Covington | RT | Adkins |
| Brown | RE | Parsley |
| McCall | QB | Branch |
| King | LH | Ward |
| Parrish | RH | Nash |
| Fraley | FB | Spaulding |

DAVIDSON GREETS FRIENDS
(Continued from page 1)

Some ten thousand football fans are expected to witness the Davidson-Carolina Classic. Stunt Night in the new auditorium concludes the
day’s activities. The stunt program commences at 7:30 o'clock. Mrs. T. W. Lingle spoke in High Point Monday night under
the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A.

DIAGRAM of N. C. STATE--DAVIDSON FOOTBALL GAME BY QUARTERS

Whittle Wins First Place in Decathlon

Heath Whittle carried off first place in the recent Track Decathlon with a total of 212 points. Of the ten
events in which he participated, he took first place in four of them. Second honors went to Norton who had
195 points to his credit. The following is a list of the leading ten men and the points which they
earned: Whittle, 212; Norton, 195; Lafferty, 175; Brannon, 156; Gorham, 147; Neal, 146; Gwinn, 140; Glasgow, 131; McCallie and Pardington
tied with 121 points each.

Whittle had the best time in three running events and the winning distance in the broad jump. The track trials
in which he placed first were the 100-yard dash, which he ran in 10.9 seconds; the 300-yard dash in 34.9
seconds; and the 120-yard low hurdles in the good time of 14 seconds. His distance in the broad jump was
19 feet, 10 inches.

Lafferty took first place in the 880-yard run with a time of 2:30. Brannon proved his ability as a distance
man by copping the mile and the two-mile runs. His time for the former was 5:00, and he ran the
latter in 10:58.

In the field meet, Gardner won the high jump by clearing the bar at 5 feet, 8 inches. Pardington reached
the altitude of 9 feet to win the pole vault event. Perrell was the top man in the shot put.
His distance was 30 feet, 2 inches. Bettis led the field in the discus throw by sailing the discus a
distance of 91 feet. Gwinn hurled the javelin a distance of 115 feet to win this event.

Doctor Richards and Rev. J. E. Flowe were in Taylorsville Sunday, installing Mr. A. M. Moffett as pastor there. Mr.
Moffett is an alumnus of this college, finishing in '25. Miss Charlotte Hunter of the Winston-Salem High School faculty spent
the weekend here.

STUDENTS, ATTENTION!

For self-supporting students desiring fascinating, remunerative work either temporary or permanent, may I suggest that many students of both sexes
have earned scholarships and cash sufficient to defray all college expenses, representing national magazine publishers. If interested, write or wire
for details—M. A. Steele, National Organizer, 5 Columbus Circle, New York, N. Y.

STOP that COLD and COUGH

Take Coldex, the “QUICK RELIEF" Cold Remedy for College Students, sold by a College Student. Jim Galloway, U.S. Your Druggist
Has Coldex.

Afford Not To Insure.

The unexpected usually happens. Two fires occur every minute—somewhere. What assurance have you that yours will not burn? It is
safer to have insurance.

Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
