Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy during the Collegiate Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

All articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL

Managing Editor
W. McCUTCHAN

Business Manager
P. R. ALDERMAN

Athletic Editor
D. P. WHITTLE

Feature Editor
L. F. PRESTON

Assistant Editor
C. H. DUBOSE

Associate Editor
V. C. RAGIN

Associate Editor
R. GRAHAM

Associate Editor
D. RUSK

Associate Editor
W. K. KIRKPATRICK

Associate Editor
W. R. WEAVER

Associate Editor
H. LO

Associate Editor
S. WILEY

Associate Editor
J. V. D. MIDDLETON

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager
L. A. HILL

Circulation Manager
E. H. MER

Advertising Manager
W. B. MER

Solicitor
F. MER

Solicitor
B. MER

Solicitor
M. D. MER

REPORTERS’ CLUB

President
H. W. McDERMID

Vice-President
E. S. HEEFNER

Secretary-Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN

Members:
F. PRESTON
C. H. DUBOSE
V. C. RAGIN
R. GRAHAM
D. RUSK
W. K. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
H. LO
S. WILEY
J. V. D. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 1929

SOME HOPES

A greater spirit of student body cooperation with the new Student Council. A year of consecration and productive labor for the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet which goes into office Sunday evening. Wide-spread interest in publications of the college. Balmy spring all the way—plenty of sleep—good exam marks. A baseball team that whips the Old Dominion schools to a frazzle. Steady twirlers—hitters in the pinch—infield that plays “heads up.” John Currie to win the 100 at Tech Relays—Whittle to win the hurdle—Every Wildcat a winner. Movietone and Vitaphone at the Davidson Theatre. Better pictures. A big crowd to welcome the Glee Club from Converse College Saturday night.

A PLEDGE

With the beginning of a new regime in the publishing of this sheet comes a new realization of the vital importance of a real student body organization for the expression of campus sentiment. The college newspaper of today has passed the stage of novelty. It is no longer a feeble attempt to copy the style of a big city daily, or a mere institution to serve as a base for the infrequent journalistic dabbles of undergraduates. Throughout the nation, the college news sheet stands for the heart of college spirit, for the pulse beat of the men and women who walk the paths of the campus, who dash upon the cinder tracks, who sit in houses, and who add their names to the catalogue as recruits in the legions of Wisdom. The paper is today recognized as the center of all endeavor, and it is a center which, like a spider’s web, extends threads to each nook and corner of the field. It is as big as the spirit of the student body—its future is limited only by the reach of the school’s vision. What a task to fulfill the ideal of the collegiate press! How to incorporate into the lifeless pages a burning, stirring spirit which will bring the heart’s blood of the place to the front—how to imbue the columns of material with all of the bravery, happiness, beauty, ambition, and faith of a great band of men—how to write DAVIDSON HOOD between the lines—these are vital demands which face the staff of your paper. May the inspiration of the ideal spur every worker on to splendid effort, may the best become better because of the tremendous opportunity for service to the college as an institution, to the student body as moving factors, and to HIM above as the Great Editor of all things. Seeking the aid of every man who feels the usefulness of his newspaper, avoiding no just criticism, rather welcoming it, and ever striving to hold up as a criterion the Davidson Man in his fullest development, the staff pledges itself sincerely to the work of the coming year.

READ YOUR PAPER

In the title perhaps one scents a foolish thrust, a useless admonition, but the intent is serious, and unless we are far off our base, it may be applied to a good number of Davidsonians. It is a question whether or not the paper receives the attention in any department which it deserves. So often a hurried glance at the headlines, or a brief run through a more popular section is about all that the weekly issue means to some. Every day the same thing happens when we pick up the daily news sheet. First a turn to the sports page to see how many hits Ruth and Gehrig chalked up, then several minutes with Dynamite Dunn and Joe Jenks—maybe if there is nothing else pushing we find whether the Mexicans have stopped scrapping. The other columns, feature and editorial, miss fire with us. Of course, not all readers are of this fragmentary nature, but too many are, and under such conditions, the paper fails to serve its purpose. There is always the condemnation of a college publication that its contents lack real merit, and that it is not worthy of too much time. The campus sheet will be made better as it gains the attention of its readers, and as they begin to lend their talents to its perfection. Made-up by students, managed by students, the paper is always doing its level best to create worthwhile things for the college and for students. Such effort will not be in vain if the proper spirit of sympathy and mutual aid is maintained in the ranks of readers. Be familiar with every part of your paper, take the time to see if it is measuring up to school traditions and progress. Show your colors by reading it through. The labor and ambition of the staff calls for that at least.

ABOUT THIS TIME

There always comes a time when fellows begin to murmur about the beauties of the campus, about how pretty a full moon would be, about how nice it is to loll around on the benches in front of the dormitories, about baseball, about coming vacation trips—about Spring! Something good for everybody in the springtime—anybody who wants it can find more downright happiness in the spring than any other time. That old feeling of laziness hits pretty hard, of course, but what would spring be anyhow without plenty of the proverbial fever? In spite of the steady ravages of warm nights and drifting breezes upon studies, in spite of all spring’s distractions for the modern collegian, “about this time” a fellow can’t help but awaken to the facts of Nature’s beauty and to the myriad gifts which have been provided to help Man along in his marathon of Living. Joyce Kilmer’s beautiful words “I have a rendezvous with Death when Spring brings back blue days and fair” serve a better purpose if we call it a rendezvous with Life—colorful, full, achieving Life. “When Spring trips North again this year, And I to my pledged word am true, I shall not fail that rendezvous.” Yes, that rendezvous with Life!

ATTITUDE

Can serious note be taken of the questionnaire recently submitted to the Senior Class? Certainly these men, about to enter the world, are capable of taking stock of themselves and of Davidson. Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh is voted the most popular figure in world prominence, yet surely this does not mean that the majority of the class inclines to aviation as a profession. Mussolini gets a vote, but how many are capable or willing to be a dictator? Browning is popular, “Pippa Passes” perhaps aiding him. Gray’s Elegy is admired and loved, Robert E. Lee honored and adored. From an international point of view Davidson is not ignorant, nor possessed of a false loyalty. But more interesting are subjects which confine themselves to the campus. Practically two-thirds of the answers returned state that the writers would enter Davidson again if they knew the facts about it as they know them now. This is assuredly encouraging. Few schools can hold their own before and after taking, when it would come to the point of doing it all over again. It is a bit surprising, too, to learn that Princeton is next preferred. A northern school with southern traditions is the order of the day, passing over such institutions as Washington and Lee, Georgia Tech, University of Virginia. Business is probably the answer. Since the Civil War the South has leaned toward the North in business matters, it is only natural that we look to it to some extent, for education. On curricular lines we appear to stand as one. No comments are necessary, nor are they in order. A broadening out along scholastic lines is progressing rapidly under the present administration, we cannot but hope that attention will be paid to this phase of current opinion. Athletic equipment is the crying need, if we are to believe these men who have been four years on the campus. That Red and Black Machine deserves all that money can give it. The time cannot be far away when more funds will be allotted to these improvements. We can safely assume these views of the Senior Class to be a fair barometer of campus feeling. Nor should we misunderstand certain parts of it. Honest criticism does not mean dissatisfaction, nor does it mean disloyalty or disapproval. The questionnaire should be regarded as an effort to make ourselves seen as we really are. Davidson must prosper by it.

—J. W. M.

Current Comment
By John Brown

We have lost one of our greatest ambassadors by the death of Myron T. Herrick a few days ago. It has been largely through his ability and statesmanship that France and America have been drawn closer together with bonds of friendship. Washington will have to look hard and long to find as capable a man to replace him.

Cincinnati has recently given her firemen police powers. At a general fire alarm they bring out their fire-fighting apparatus at sixty-five important street intersections, blocking traffic and preventing the escape of criminals. The firemen are warned not to enter a house in the capacity of police officers.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of fire-fighters and then use their police power to arrest anyone who may be in the building. From all reports and newspaper accounts, it seems that the biggest fish always gets away, but the biggest still is always seized. Of the two general types of airplane motors—air-cooled and water-cooled, the air-cooled motors offer excessive air resistance which retards the motion of the ship, and the water-cooled motors require heavy radiators and water which add heavily to the load. A new liquid has been brought forward for use in radiators. It is called ethylene glycol and is a polyhydric alcohol. It is clear, colorless and pleasant smelling and has a high boiling point of 387 degrees. An airplane requires a smaller amount of this liquid than of water, consequently a smaller radiator and less air resistance. (Continued on page 5)

Various individuals, modeled on the lives of Harriet Stowe, and William Lloyd Garrison, have been and must be doomed to eventual failure. Racial prejudice is a necessity for the effectual separation of the white and black. Rebel forces in Mexico have temporarily ceased fighting and have given the cause as lack of firearms and ammunition. Federal supporters are doubtless glad that the days have passed when plow-shares and pitchforks were made into effectual weapons. Our country paid little attention to the difficulty but when rebel planes dropped a few bombs on American soil, a prompt and severe warning was the result. An interesting incident occurred in a conflict between the two armies. Two planes approached each other with determination and vengeance. A “dog-fight” ensued until both pilots were out of ammunition and their machine guns useless. Coming closer to one another each found the other to be an American. Waving cordial greetings they parted and flew back to headquarters. The day of gentlemen adventurers has not passed, but we will wager that both of the men were Irishmen.

War-time customs must give way to those of peace, however. Instead of dieting on corn-bread and soybeans ex-secretary Hoover, now the president, takes his morning exercise with a six-pound medicine ball. It will be something novel for visiting diplomats, when breakfasting at the White House, to throw off dignity and toss the pill around. Perhaps secret service men will be present to pick up the ball when it drops and wipe the dew from it.

Sunday was the 20th anniversary of Peary’s discovery of the North Pole. Arctic travel in those days was filled with dangers, privations, and loneliness. Dependence was placed in dog teams, which drug sleds slowly through the snow. The two decades have seen myriad changes. Byrd has flown over the same spot and returned to his base in sixteen hours. Radio brings home close to explorers. But one cannot refrain from recalling the names of the past; Scott, Shackleton, Amundsen, Nansen, Stefansson, and others who braved perils that the earth might know itself.

Thoughts while hoofing the campus: Uncle Sam prepared for the government inspection, up with the flags! Return from Easter vacation and general hilarity. Surprise to the nth degree, a cut in Latin. Richard-studes. At last thea wketaoitiaititit son Field covered with athletes, and, pardon, a few Physical Education studes. At last the dome of Chambers has been covered with tar paper, and the rock top placed. Hurrah for the rest of “Alexenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas.” McQueen as nonchalant as ever, paying a visit from Carolina. Approach of the week-end—Whoop-e-e-e and whatnot!

By Dave WANTON WILES Anderson

ENCORE! It would be absolutely impossible to conceal our identity, even for just one week's bull. So we always confess: the Bull Pen artist is at it again. “Once a sucker, always a sucker.” The editor came up to us after a hard day's work and asked that we write this column for at least one more week (not two? He's new at the game)—“I just haven't got anything better to fill up space,” sez he. There must be nothing better than the Bull Pen to fill up space. So, in a weak moment, we said “All right.” So here goes our encore.

Quite a few folks have asked if this column was to be continued next year and if we were planning to edit it. Answer: I don’t know, and NO! Maybe one more week after this, until the “filler” from College Humor comes in or until the Forum, and that is the end.

YOU CAN'T WIN ARGUMENTS WITH:
Traffic Cops.
Umpires.
Clocks.
Absence Committees.
Women.
Professors.
Alarm Clocks.

THE BREAKERS OF TRADITIONS ARE COMING

When the columns of Old Chambers went, innumerable people who believe in clinging to traditions literally wept. Now another landmark at Davidson is about to pass. The famous player-organ at the Davidson theatre is soon to be of little value (as if it ever was of any good). They are installing sound apparatus. No longer, during a passionate love scene, will the organ suddenly burst forth with “He’s Tight Like That” or something of similar nature. No longer, in a sad picture, will the old organ play, “Who's Blue Now?” We have heard it played so much during a movie-wedding that we are almost convinced that it is an essential part of all weddings. A few more days and the old organ will be idle—during most of the pictures, at least. Another tradition falls down and goes squash. What is to be done about this wholesale wrecking of traditions? Let’s hold an election and fight it out.

SAYINGS OF SOLOMON THE COLLEGIATE

Spring weather makes some folks lazy. It increases the laziness in most folks. It is the ambition of every college journalist to put out just one more issue after he gets his “dip.” Oh, boy—wouldn’t that be great? Just one! Spring is a wonderful season. Trees, green grass, sunshine, birds and all. But the best part about spring is that you can wear most anything, just so long as it’s something, and get by. What would become of the shirts with collars too small to button if it wasn’t for the spring season of the year?

ON LANGUAGES

Someone has said that to get by in America without any trouble, one must have a speaking knowledge of four languages. Good old U. S. (or English), to appear literary and to read ads in the paper. Slang, to converse with college students. Greek, to order a meal. Chinese, to get your laundry.

Farmer Jones: “I say; Brown, where is your hired man?”
Farmer Brown: “He used to be a truck driver in the city, and crawled under the mule to see why he wouldn't go.”

A father had taken his small son to a football game and that evening his mother was surprised to hear the following prayer: “God bless ma, God bless pa, God bless me, Rah; Rah, Rah, Rah.”

Mrs. Watkins Warner II regrets that he can not attend the Chicago Alumni Club Luncheon of Delta Handa Poka Friday night, as she still owes some of the brothers money.

TODAY’S LAST PEN FULL

Give emphatic, monosyllabic word expressing anger, etc., which rhymes with “ham.” Give prefixes. (Hint: One prefix is “I’ll be——”).

Tom, I wish you wouldn't get so free.
Ain't this the land of the free?

Professor Beatty—I could dance on like this forever.
“Toosie” Mills—Oh, don't be a pessimist; you'll improve.

Never laugh at a fat woman. She’s only a little girl gone to waist.

“It's funny I do not remember limping when I left home,” said Professor Bradley as he walked down the street with one foot on the curb and the other in the gutter.

She calls her boy friend “Dandruff”—He’s always falling on her shoulders.

Reminds us of ? ? It was a dark night at Aldershot, and in the gloom could be heard the sound of an approaching horse. “Halt: Who goes there?” barked the picket. “Regimental Commander.” “Dismount, sir, and advance to be recognized.” The colonel dismounted and came over to the picket, who presented arms with a snap. “Proceed, sir!” he said. As he laboriously got back on his horse, the colonel asked: “By the way, who posted you there?” “Oh, nobody, sir,” replied the picket. “I’m just practicing.”

Another night wasted. No one seems to have read this column for three weeks straight—at least no one applied for a prize offered to prove they were that crazy. Oh, well, who cares? This world and then the fireworks.

THE LAST SHOVELFUL

More space filled. No one seems to have read this column for three weeks straight—at least no one applied for a prize offered to prove they were that crazy. Oh, well, who cares? This world and then the fireworks.

Contemporary Thought

Is West Point An “Amateur Institution?”

“Unless there have been some revolutionary changes recently,” states P. S. Day in the May College Humor, “the mode of academic instruction is quite the opposite of modern pedagogical theory. It is largely the blackboard recitation, a mechanical, authoritative classroom procedure, and not really teaching in the true sense. It is more the practice of the schoolmasters of the past who demanded that their pupils absorb the daily dose or take the consequences. But although it is far from the idealized Socratic method, the daily recitation required of each cadet is markedly effective in preventing that disastrous gap between good intentions and their execution, which is so apt to appear under the popular lecture system. The evils of postponed mental effort are not a problem at West Point.

“However, as long as the bulk of instruction is performed by young graduates temporarily assigned to the duty and whose sole qualification is that they stand reasonably well in the subject which they are expected to teach, the quality of that instruction must leave much to be desired. As Admiral Sims said in referring to the same condition at Annapolis, it is an ‘amateur institution.’ Having been a member of this amiable sodality of ‘amateurs’ as an instructor of mathematics, I can only say, in the language of the cadets: ‘The charge is correct; the offense was unintentional.’ I remember one of my colleagues who had three morning classes in the same subject confiding to me that he learned the day’s lesson from the first class, recited along with the second, and tried to put over a modicum of instruction in the third. In reality the cadet has to dig it all out by himself or go without, and that is largely the West Point theory. The instructor is hardly more than a monitor to tabulate the grades.

“I do not mean to imply by the above ruminations that the West Point instructor is less competent than the great majority of classroom instructors in other colleges. Ordinarily his shortcomings are not due to lack of sufficient intelligence. And if qualified graduates who so desired were directed into the work and kept there, the standard would undoubtedly be raised. It should be a permanent detail for all academic instructors as it is for the professors.”

---