January 10, 1929
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

SOCIAL

The Ladies Auxiliary entertained with a party for the girls living in Davidson who were here for the holidays in the KA House during Christmas. The boys living in Davidson also entertained in the KA House for the young people of the town. There were a great many parties during the holidays including those given by Misses Steele and White; Miss Malline Lyon and Mr. Billy Lyon; and Mrs. Cloyd Goodrum entertained in honor of her sister, Miss Louise Thompson from NiGe Gas.

The Men’s Club, called the “Eta Bita Pi Club,” entertained with a banquet in honor of their wives at the Kimbrell House on Dec. 27th. Mr. and Mrs. Bob Garth spent the holidays with Dr. and Mrs. Lingle. Mrs. Garth entertained the Kill Kare Klub on Thursday, January 3rd. Miss Polly Berger visited Prof. and Mrs. Cullum during the holidays. Rev. R. S. Burwell was summoned to Whiteville, N.C. to attend the funeral of his brother last Saturday. Mr. Hengeveld has gone to Waycross, Ga., to attend the funeral of his mother. Mrs. Martin's brother-in-law, Mr. Williamson and his family of Fayetteville spent Christmas here with Dr. and Mrs. Martin. Mr. M. H. Goodrum, the mayor of Davidson and one of the leading merchants, was married to Mrs. Annie Wilson on January 4th. They will make their home here.

The following announcement was received by the Davidsonian:
Professor and Mrs. F. K. Fleagle announce the marriage of their daughter Alice Jane to Mr. Leon H. Gooch on October 27, 1928.
At Home
Chapel Hill, N. C.

Hockey Declared to Be Dangerous Sport

Hockey, as played by the colleges, is more dangerous than football or any other sport, a fact that is brought out by Joseph Stubbs, Harvard Hockey Coach. “A doctor is in attendance at all practices and games,” says Coach Stubbs, “and he has a most complete equipment of medical supplies. It might be noted that we had two very severe injuries from skate cuts last season, both of which required prompt needle work. One of the visiting players dislocated his shoulder in a game, was etherized, his shoulder reset, and strapped up without leaving the building. There are very few practices or games where the doctor leaves without having a call for his services. Hockey is a dangerous game.”

Committee Elected To Unify Phi Betes

Dr. T. W. Lingle, of Davidson, to Serve on this Committee

At the national meeting of the Phi Beta Kappa fraternity recently held in Ohio, a committee was appointed to devise some plans or means to bring about a closer and more united organization of Phi Beta Kappa chapters in the southeastern part of the United States. The district of which this committee is in charge includes fifteen chapters of the fraternity located in Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, and the District of Columbia. Dr. R. W. Hughes, former president of the Virginia Bar Association, was elected chairman of the committee composed of three. The two others working with him are Dr. T. W. Lingle of Davidson and Prof. B. M. Turner of the University of West Virginia.

“Y” Deputation Sent To Charlotte Boys

The local Y. M. C. A. has promised to send a deputation to the Charlotte “Y” every Sunday for the next fifteen weeks to hold services for a series of boys' meetings which they are conducting. This past Sunday Riggs McConnell went down and spoke on the “Requisites of a Great Man,” discussing the things which make a man great and the principles of great men. Another deputation will go to Mooresville on the nineteenth of this month and conduct a meeting of the Christian Endeavor Society of the Second Presbyterian Church. The “Y” is also trying to secure dates for more of this kind, and although nothing has been settled definitely as yet, they feel reasonably sure of several. Among these are Concord, North Wilkesboro, and Salisbury.

STATE SECRETARY (Continued from page 1)

...must, in like manner, be paid for through self-denial and suffering, as Paul’s heroic missionary journeys clearly illustrate. Yes, the Master Himself has won His hold of the hearts of men through a narrow way that led through Gethsemane and Calvary. We have our choice of following the easy path to oblivion or of treading with Him the long hard way that leads to a complete life, personality, and heroic achievement.

Movie Clubs Formed In Various Colleges

College men and women have come to the point where taking moving pictures at big games and winter sports festivals is the mode. In the East, where football originated, the students are going in for moving picture photography with the same amount of interest and enthusiasm that they show for archery, hockey, and soccer. Movie clubs are next, for in this day and age of simple movie cameras, which now even take color pictures and which are being shown in all attractive colors, it is possible to get a permanent record. And now one can even secure an f. 4.5 lens to give telephoto effects and objects...will be larger and nearer when shown on the screen. ‘record of your college days.

CHINA FUNDS
(Continued from page 1)

Practically eighty-five percent of the funds have been in pledges, the rest having been donated largely in checks. This week will see the termination of the campaign, which was begun December 6. Gleen Fry is actively in charge of the work. He had planned to bring the campaign to a close before the holidays, but was held up by the various trips and deputations which were off the hill at the time, as well as the epidemic of influenza.

Contest To Be Held To Interest College Students in Aviation

To interest more college students in aviation, the Alexander Aircraft Company at Colorado Springs offers a new Alexander Eaglerock Airplane or a complete University Course in aeronautics for the best series of four short monthly articles on aviation from January 1 to May 1, 1929, written by undergraduate college students. The winner will be awarded a 4-year scholarship in a leading aeronautical engineering school, or in a school of business administration where he can get an aeronautical background. Competing students who receive undergraduate degrees June 1 may win a graduate scholarship in a technical school of aeronautics, leading to a master's or a professional degree. As an alternative award, the winner may receive a completely equipped Eaglerock. Articles of superior merit but below winning quality will win their writers 10-hour flying courses. The awards will be made June 1. The papers, technical or non-technical and 400 to 600 words in length, must be submitted to the Committee on Awards on the first of each month from January 1 to May 1. Suggested subjects include “Future Aircraft Development,” “Flying for Recreation,” “Commercial Possibilities in Aviation,” “The Airplane as a Decentralizer of Future Cities,” etc. Candidates will be judged 30 percent on content of their articles, and 70 percent on their qualifications to do justice to the scholarships. The winner, if he qualifies, will be employed in the engineering or some other department of the Alexander Aircraft factory. The best contribution each month will be published in the Alexander Aircrafter, a magazine with 20,000 circulation among pilots, business executives, and others interested in flying.

PHI DELTA THETA
(Continued from page 1)

One president and one vice-president of the nation’s leaders. The ultra-conservative expansion policy now prevalent in Phi Delta Theta has averaged only about one new chapter every two years. This has been true for some time. The installation team to install N.C. Gamma will be made up of two men each from N.C. Alpha at Duke and N.C. Beta at the University of N.C. Many prominent men of the fraternity have signified their intention of visiting Davidson at this time.

She—Did you know that the water has rotted the post in front of our house?
He—Mercy me, and the tee-totalers put that stuff in their stomachs!

What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?

ANSWER NO. 5

The college man who has grown from childhood into the knowledge of Christ, or the man who through an arresting experience, has gained such knowledge—shall he not consider whether the possession of this knowledge is an element in his call to the ministry? Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a happy and achieving life; perhaps we could help you.

PRESIDENT DAVIDSON

Davidson, College of honored tradition, Armed with the clock of a hundred years, Valor upheld by exalted position, Inspiring devotion throughout all the years; Deem it thy will that we always shall cherish Sacred traditions of Honor and Truth; Offer us guidance that neither may perish— Needful are both in our progress of Youth.

Chesley Rice.

FOR SOME STUDENT

My, you need a haircut. Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real college haircut. He has three real barbers.

NORTON BROS.
in Postoffice block—
Three first-class workmen

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers
BARNETT and COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The Alexander Eaglerock to be given to some college student in June, 1929, in the Alexander Eaglerock Awards.

STATIONERY
Printed and Embossed
ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS
Aubrey Brown
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

A majority of the beacon lights used in airport and airway illumination have been designed and manufactured by the General Electric Company, whose specialists have the benefit of a generation’s experience in the solution of lighting problems.

GENERAL ELECTRIC

Skies with Commerce

The air map of America is now in the making—on the ground. Ten years ago, there were 218 miles of air mail routes with two station stops; today, a network of sky roads bridges the country from the Atlantic to the Pacific and from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico. Can you imagine this growth without electricity—without illuminated airports—without trunk lines studded with electric beacons? Men of vision are building for increasing traffic of the air. Soon, the skies will be filled with commerce. Just as electricity is helping to conquer the air, the land, and the sea today, so tomorrow it will lead to greater accomplishments in aviation and in every human activity.

GENERAL ELECTRIC