THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

Wildcat Eleven Again Bows to Wake Forest Jinx

Side Line Shots By P. R. Alderman

At a Battle With An Old Enemy

That scrap in Greensboro last Saturday proved one thing at least—the Deacons still have that old jinx on us and
don't seem to want to turn loose. Nothing can last forever, though, and there’s one consolation in the fact that
this hoodoo is now eight years old, beginning to exercise his powers in 1922, so we can all at least
hope for an early funeral.

For the first time this season the Wildcat was not allowed the satisfaction of at least crossing the enemy’s goal,
a thing which even the Army’s big guns and the Clemson Tiger’s ferociousness were unable to withhold. Only once before
in Davidson-Wake Forest grid annals have the Cats been unable to cross the last marker—in 1923 when the Deacons won
6-0. Whether it is of any significance or not, it remains a fact that this game was played and lost
away from home, and furthermore that the Red and Black warriors have proved more than a match for any opponent
on Richardson Field this season. This should at least render the situation gloomy as V. M. I., Carolina, and Duke
are to be met here at Davidson.

The scrimmage between the Kittens and Varsity last week seems to have proved a little more helpful to the Fresh
than to Coach Monk’s cohorts. As a result, Brohard and Christian were added to the number that warmed the bench
while the Deacons were putting over a tally. This list also included McQ, Mason, and Brown, although Mason did take
Milton’s place after the game had started.

When a team has such tackles as Webb and Williams to open up a highway for speedy backs like Cox,
Mills, and Quillen to dash through, things aren’t going to be so favorable for the opposing eleven. The Cats had
this fact thoroughly impressed on them by the Deacons last week, this combination proving more disastrous to Davidson than any
other one thing probably.

“Little but Loud” was undoubtedly the most appropriate nickname of “Red” Parrish in the Deacon-Wildcat tilt. It didn’t take those
Demon backs long to learn that a 146-pound Wildcat can take up entirely too much room on the gridiron and
also that this territory was not for trespass either by the aerial or ground route. Joe McCall at half, Brock
at end, and Borneo Baker at tackle also played their usual stellar games.

One can never tell exactly how things are going to come out in the state championship race, even after several
games have been played. But, it can be said that Davidson is not yet the tenant of the lowermost position.
Wake Forest has beat us it’s true, but they’ve also lost two games to Big Five members and with Carolina
and Duke to be met on home territory the Wildcats are pretty apt to damage the old dope bucket.

The strong Rutherford team further attested to the strength of the Wildkittens by biting the dust to the tune of
19-0. It can be said without much hesitation that the Fresh eleven this year shows signs of being the best
one in at least three years.

DEACON DRIVE DOWN FIELD IN OPENING PERIOD SCORES ONLY TOUCHDOWN OF GAME

Davidson Passing Attack Broken up by Fast-Charging Line of Wake Forest

PARRISH DEFENSIVE STAR

Wildcats Threaten to Score Twice But Are Stopped

A heavy Wake Forest line charged the Davidson Wildcats off their feet last Saturday, and succeeded in putting over a
victory by a 6 to 0 score. The Deacon forward wall, one of the heaviest that the Cats have faced
this year, time and again opened wide gaps for their charging backs to dash through. The Davidson offensive could get
nowhere against their heavier opponents and the Wildcats were held scoreless for the first time this season.

The Baptists’ power lay in their heavy line, and most of their gains were made through it. They hardly ever
resorted to passes to advance the ball, but gave it to Quillen, Benton, Cox, or others who would smash off
tackle or through the line to rip off substantial gains. A smooth-working interference also aided the backs a great deal.

The Wildcat passing attack that has figured so largely for Davidson in the last two games was almost completely broken
up. The passers were rushed so badly that they did not have time to pick their receivers, and an alert
secondary batted down many of the balls that were sent their way. Fraley and Brock were forced to play a
game of hide-and-seek with the rushers at times before they could get the ball out of their hands.

In spite of the way in which they were outplayed most of the game, the ’Cats threatened seriously to score
twice in the last half. Brock passed 25 yards to Parrish, then McCall picked up ten more. However, the next
two plays were stopped at the line, then a pass went over the goal-line to give Wake Forest the ball
on its own twenty-yard line. Again, late in the fourth quarter, a fumbled punt which Davidson recovered gave them the
ball on the Deacon’s 35-yard line. With only time for one more play, Brock passed, but the throw was intercepted
as the game was over.

Wake Forest made their only score early in the game. Taking the ball on their own 46-yard line, they smashed
their way down the field to Davidson's four-yard line. Then Mills went around his left end for the touchdown. The
try for point was blocked. The Deacons were able to push the ball to the fifteen-yard line in the fourth
quarter, but the Wildcats braced here and held them for downs, the ball going over.

Besides its stellar ball-toters, Wake Forest had two other outstanding stars in its giant tackles, Webb and Williams. They tore
up the ’Cat line in a fearful manner and were very fast for men of their size. The interference of
the Baptists played havoc with Wildcat attempts to stop the backs a number of times, and greatly aided the Demon’s
attack.Back could get going enough to be considered as an offensive star. But little Red Parrish turned in a whale
of a game on the defense. He stopped many runners after they had emerged into the secondary area for what
seemed long gains. Baker at right tackle and Brock at left end were outstanding at their positions. Brock also did
excellent punting, getting off several of his kicks almost through the arms of the Deacon forwards. Great material at Coach
“Red” Laird's disposal and before the season is over he should make this fact pretty widely known.

Schedule For Fresh Grid Team Changed

Due to unavoidable situations that have arisen in the past few weeks, certain changes have been necessitated in the Freshmen
grid schedule for this season. Besides the Oak Ridge game, which was the first on the Kitten schedule, and the
Duke Fresh game to be played on November 22, the rest have been changed from their original dates. Two teams
have already been met, the one with the Oak Ridge cadets resulting in a tie and the Rutherford eleven bowing
to the Fresh by the score of 18-0. Of the remaining games, two are with teams in the state while
the other is with the Wofford Freshmen. Following is a schedule for the three remaining tilts to be engaged in
by the Kittens:

November 1—N. C. State Fresh at Davidson
November 15—Wofford Fresh at Davidson
November 22—Duke Fresh at Durham

FOOTBALL SUPERSTITIONS

“I have never worn a pair of football stockings in a game since my high school days,” says Al Marsters,
Dartmouth’s star halfback, in his article “Football Superstitions,” in the November College Humor. “This atmosphere of superstition stayed with me
through prep school and my freshman years at Dartmouth, and in my sophomore year I developed a new one. I
had played fairly consistent, but not too brilliant, football during my freshman year and consequently did not expect to make
the regular position upon the varsity my sophomore year. I was surprised when the coach read my name off in
the starting line-up of the first game and having a slight feeling of inferiority as we went from the locker
building, I was the last man of the first team to leave the building. From then on, throughout the rest
of the season, I was the eleventh man to go upon the field. Naturally, when the 1928 season came around,
I was still the last man to go upon the field. Everything went well for the first three games and
I was leading the scorers of the country at that time, when I cracked one of my bones in my
ankle and I believed that my luck had left me.”

N. C. FRESHMEN TAKE INTELLIGENCE TESTS

All graduates from North Carolina schools last spring were required to take an intelligence test sometime during April. The individual
indications of the college that the graduate intended to attend were made in the paper. When the papers are graded,
the final reports of the standing of the students will be sent to the college mentioned in the papers for
the purpose of comparing that paper with other grades made by the student during his freshman year in college. North
Carolina College Conference has been giving these intelligence tests through the department of Public Instruction and now they are studying
what productive value these tests have when compared with mere graduation from high school. It has been found that if
college entrance was granted on the standing acquired by the results of these tests, rather than on mere graduation from
an accredited high school, there would be fewer men to fail. Statistics show that out of one hundred men entering
college who had graduated from accredited high schools, fifty failed to make good, whereas out of one hundred men who
passed this psychological test, ninety made good. Dr. Frazer Hood, head of the psychology department, and Prof. L. B. Henderson,
head of the educational department of Davidson College, manage Davidson's part. They report that Davidson students, when compared with students
of other schools, show an ability above the average.

Line-up and summary:

Wake Forest Position Davidson
Edwards --------- LG --------- Brock (C)
Williams --------- C --------- Baker
DeCamp --------- RG --------- Mills
Milton --------- RT --------- Baker
Patton --------- LE --------- Proctor
Gregson --------- RB --------- Fraley
Quillen --------- QB --------- Parrish
Cox (C) --------- FB --------- McCall
Benton --------- LH --------- King

Scoring touchdowns: Mills (Wake Forest). Substitutions: Wake Forest, Placa, Hutchins, Brogden, Hipps, DuPre, Newson, Zimmerman, Covington; Davidson, Mason, Mathis, Goodykoontz,
D. Bradshaw, Hewlett, McConnell, M. Bradshaw, Covington. Officials: Referee, Magoffin (Michigan); umpire, Brice (Auburn); head linesman, Brewer (Maryland).

Davidson Men Prominent At Richmond Seminary

Three of Four Officers Elected Are Davidsonians

Three of the four officers who were recently elected to lead the Junior class of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, are
graduates of Davidson of 1929. R. B. Campbell, Washington and Lee, was elected president; R. F. Sloop, vice-president; Aubrey Brown,
secretary-treasurer; and Frank Hall, councilman. Three of the seven holders of fellowships, likewise, are Davidson men. Dunbar H. Ogden, Jr.,
is the Moses D. Hoge Fellow. A. Hayden Hollingsworth, Jr., is the Chas. D. Larus Fellow and D. R. Bitzer
holds the Walter W. Moore Fellowship. The same proportion holds true with the Seminary quartet, which has J. S. Grey,
J. H. Caligan and Tom Hamilton, all of Davidson, and John Cunningham, Hampden-Sydney.

Davidson Tackle

Barney Baker, who was one of the mainstays of the Wildcat Line against the Wake Forest eleven Saturday.

STOP that COLD and COUGH

Take Coldex, the “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy for College Students, sold by College Students. Your druggist has Coldex.

Jim Galloway U. of S.C.

“Drugs” A Complete Drug Store

WELCOME WHITE DRUG COMPANY

“Soda” “Sundries” “Prescriptions”

SEE and HEAR The New VICTOR MICRO-SYNCHRONOUS RADIO AND RADIOLA

See Them At PARKER GARDNER CO. 16 West Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Victor & Brunswick Records - Furniture And Draperies
