THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1929

Collegiate Comment

FEATURES

On This and That

Music By Horace W. Ervin

MU BETA PSI

If young men had music and pictures to satisfy them, to engage them and satisfy many of their impulses and to enliven their days, they would not go to the low pleasures of the streets; they would have an alternative and would be too fastidious to do so.—George Bernard Shaw.

We have had occasion in weeks past to mention the need in many classical colleges for musical education and appreciation among the students. The need cannot be met except by organized effort, for it is not a small one. If on our own campus we were to ask the question, “What is a symphony?” we should be very surprised with the great percentage of students who would have not the faintest conception of what it is. Or better, take an example from actual experience which occurred right here on the campus a few weeks ago. Two students took the trouble, for their own diversion, to ascertain how many men in a given group were acquainted with the name Fritz Kreisler. By simply asking, “Do you know Fritz Kreisler?” and taking note of the answers they found that about four out of every ten had apparently never heard the name before. So remarkable were the results that the inquirers were able to effectively increase the jest by asking, “Do you know where Fritz Kreisler rooms?” Several actually looked honest and answered, “No, I don't—I’m sorry.” Others realized the joke.

It would seem that many of the former class are absolutely unconcerned with events in their world current beyond Mecklenburg County. And yet they are college men and as such should have broad tastes and ideas that would stimulate them to keep posted on outstanding events in the world, nay in their own community. For Fritz Kreisler, the world’s greatest violinist, is to play in Charlotte on November 21st, as we all know, or should know.

It has already been said that the need for musical appreciation demands organized effort. With specific reference to Davidson College, what better can foster an interest in things musical and furnish an opportunity for students to develop their talents and broaden their tastes than a musical fraternity? Since music is not an important subject in the curriculum, a musical fraternity can be made to play a very important part in the campus life of interested men. Mu Beta Psi comes on the scene none too soon. Not only a clique of music-appreciators who assemble to talk, do, and be in an atmosphere of music, the members have the welfare of the college primarily in mind. The organization purports to diffuse an interest in music about the campus and to have the study of it placed in its proper sphere as an educational subject.

The fraternity began in April, 1928, at N. C. State College, through the initiative of Major P. W. Price, who is in charge of the band at State. Major Price saw just this great lack of attention given to music in educational institutions and foresaw the increasing efficacy of an organization such as Mu Beta Psi. In colleges where there are no conservatories and where no organized study of music exists, Mu Beta Psi may be installed as an honorary fraternity.

The first national convention was held over Friday and Saturday at Raleigh. The meeting, at which six Davidson men were in attendance, was given over to the discussion of many important phases of the society's work. A national constitution was adopted, national officers were elected, committees were selected, and the national organization was completed. Mu Beta Psi is incorporated in North Carolina under the state laws. Its members are thoroughly interested in and familiar with the principles and ideals of the fraternity. Membership is conferred upon students who have shown leadership in musical activities or who (Continued on Page 8)

Nouvelle Evant-hier

Know Davidson

R. E. W.

Throughout the varied periods of history in our little domain which we call the world there is born once in a century some man who has a small and radiant vein of the mysterious and intangible. Perhaps he is a genius; perhaps a fool. At any rate his is a destiny which contains that parthenogenetic tendency to rise to highest pinnacles or fall to gloomy and loathsome depths; and do either with honor. Such a man may live the first age of his life with immense vitality and vigor; fall back in a denouement of obliteration with failing power, and disappear. In rare instances, after an eternity of eons, some of those men regain their lost vitality and bring forth to the inhabitants of this inane globe a new will or a minute particle of flame-colored substance, which remains to flicker patiently in the long night of waving meteors, and in which reposes the effervescent effulgence of disciplined beauty.

Minions of flame; marionettes of the wanton way of life; placed for an instant in the hands of power; cast aside by the willful voluptuousness of clouded greed and immeasurable ingratitude; struggling up; bowing down; gleaning wisdom; gathering in rich seeds of cynicism; silence, hidden life, weird glory. Being swept by the burning passion-flame; hearing new life; feeling deep quiet; resting; understanding at last the vague yet surging fire of omnipotent genius.

Such a man was Marshal Ney, Napoleon’s greatest aide, who gave to Davidson College its motto and crest. Irrefutable argument is impossible; somewhere there lies always a new theory or a new fact that will inevitably tear down an established truth. Understand, Peter Ney did not announce that he was Napoleon’s aide; did not mention a single clue that would lead one to the belief that he was one of the men who guided the Star of France on its erratic journey. The conclusion that he was the same man was drawn up by curious persons who feared his unknown origin. At any rate so far as history knows, after being executed in effigy or otherwise, Marshal Ney disappeared, and Peter Ney secured a position as school teacher in a small town not far from Davidson College. Here he lived a quiet and humble life. His sagacity became known without the whole country and when the first authorities of Davidson College found need for a draft and a motto they turned to this taciturn little Frenchman. He drew up two such crests and a motto: The first was a seal showing Cowan’s Ford with the British and American forces drawn up opposing each other, making an eternal tribute to General Lee Davidson for whom the college is named. The motto was the undying “Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas.” The first draft was turned down by the college for various unknown reasons. The second draft was accepted. A hand grasps a short dagger about the blade of which is coiled a dying serpent. On the hilt of the knife is a star. There are two fields in the crest separated by a bar on which is emblazoned the retort “Ne Ultra.” The upper half is a light background in which are seen blazing from the star rays of alternate light and dark. In the lower half reposes the dagger and its accessories. The star at the hilt of the dagger is the morning star presaging the full and rising light of the sun which will follow. The snake may represent tyranny transfixed by all virtues; however in old Egyptian crests and those which show the serpents of Moses, reptiles represented wisdom and power.Biblical stories the serpent is a personification of Satan; this theory seems to me the most plausible for then the cross bar takes on a new significance: It is meant to separate the light of learning and religion from the baneful influence of ignorance and misbelief. Thus the seal becomes a picture of heavenly powers and the powers of Hell eternally divided and segregated by that horizon beyond which no evil can pass. “Ne Ultra.” These things rest forever, “Ad Majorem Dei Gloriam.” Such was the flashing of another luminary creation leaving behind a work worthy of our school, yet a creation whose name is well nigh forgotten. In the words of Omar: “They say the lion and the lizard keep The courts where Jamshyd gloried and drank deep;

BOOKS WE HAVE READ

Hunky, by Thames Williamson. Coward-McCann, Inc., New York—1929.

“Hunky” is the story of Jenric, the big slow man. Who he was, whether a Polock, a Croat, or a Hungarian, no one ever knew, he least of all. It will suffice to say that he was one of the long line of peasant stock from Europe which had been knocking for admittance at the door of the New World. The events of this Jenric’s life were very hazy, especially to himself. He came to the United States as a boy. Somehow in the confusion of the new environment of which he was not a part he was lost. When he arrived at the state of manhood he found himself engulfed in the mass of buildings and hurrying humanity known as the city, swamped with its mysteries and hopelessly behind its swift life. The problem which faced him was that of adjusting himself to this new and entirely different situation. He was essentially a toiler. Whatever else might be said of him more or less, is insignificant, for he started life as a worker. Behind him was generation after generation of peasant ancestors who, with their minds and intellects crushed by the will of overlords had been content to do the task before them, little questioning why they did it. A bakery was the scene of his labors. He carried the flour used in the mixing vats of the chief baker, he cleaned the pans and lifted the crates of fresh bread. In the head-baker Jenric found a friend. Then the beautiful but terrible Teena came into his life. That he was in love with her he did not realize until he had been humiliated by her swaggering lover. From day to day he worked and tried to think. He did little else but work and sleep. His waking hours were filled with a dullard’s grins and stammering speech. He never asked the question why he moved the sacks of flour, being satisfied with the knowledge of the fact that he accomplished the task. Thus, endowed with a simple uninquisitive mind, he endeavored to find the light. At last, after many trials, sufferings and longings he came from behind the fog to see his life as it was meant to be. The story shows primarily the development of this “hunkie’s” slow peasant mind. At first we see him possessed with an intelligence not far removed from that of a child. Then as he came in contact with the hardships which befall the working man and the gross realities of life we see this mind emerge, enlightened by his contact with hardship, sweetened by the influence of a friend, mellowed by the love he had for a girl, and emboldened by the arousal of his brute strength and the perception of manly qualities occasioned in the protection of the thing he held dearest. His reaction to the iron machine which the management of the bakery installed to replace him is interesting. Filled with a ranking hatred for this enemy, he entered the bakery unseen, and, applying all his strength, disabled the iron monster. It did not occur to him that this machine could do more than he had done. He was a simpleton, an unthinking mass of brute force. Yet there was kindness in his heart, and he would have hurt no one willfully. It is with difficulty that he is brought to fight his rival for the insults he received from him, but, once aroused he stopped at nothing. His lack of confidence in himself was replaced with an undoubted assurance. “Hunky” is an interesting book and worth your while to read. Christopher Morley says of it: “A book of singular vigor and freshness with a whiff of good gross reality and a book of understanding tenderness...”

THE WILDCAT AND THE ARMY MULE

The Wildcat challenged the Army Mule, Some folks said the little ole fool; But the little ole cat was out for a fight, With claws all sharp and teeth all white. He sticks to the mule with tooth and claw, Till the old mule’s back got exceedingly raw; He rode that mule for a full whole half, And the way he rode would make you laugh, The little ole rascal on top of that mule, But the mule had decided he was no fool; The second half was not so bright, But the little ole cat stuck glue tight. In the last half he didn’t quite ride, But he hit that mule hard in the side; The old mule gave some good hard kicks, But the cat came back with sharp swift licks. When the whistle blew, the Army Mule had won, But he knew he had fought with Davidson’s son.

W. B. Buckner.

$29.50 STETSON “D” STORE Opposite Campus

In Stetson “D” Clothes you will find the utmost comfort—in style—in service! Correct designs in numerous styles. Every Suit or Top Coat of Stetson “D”s Is Guaranteed! $34.50

A wide range of selection at moderate prices and embossed Best Quality and Prices ANY TYPE OF PRINTING Earnest H. McCall 108 Watts Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. Charlotte, N. C.

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

On pound (60 Sheets) College seal with package envelopes 98c Make our store your store White Drug Company “SODA” “SUNDRIES”