April 18, 1929

CLEMSON TRACKMEN HERE SATURDAY

THE LATEST From Diamond and Cinder Path

P. R. ALDERMAN

That was a great game of baseball anyhow, with Wofford, although the ‘Cats did come out on the little end
of a 3-2 count. Johnnie McInnis pitched a faultless game for Davidson, but Hall, young Soph twirler for Wofford, also
pitched very good ball, had just a little more airtight support from his mates. Our infield, however, showed quite a
lot of improvement since the first of the season.

Looks like the Netmen are in for a mighty successful season according to the matches they played last week. Erskine
and Furman bowed to the varsity in succession last week, 6-0 and 4-2 respectively, while the Fresh were handing the
Charlotte Hi racqueteers a 5-1 defeat. We're expecting big things from Capt. John Roddey and his men this Spring!

The Kitten nine didn’t seem to have much trouble with Statesville Hi last Friday. That’s a snappy infield developing, with
“Shad” Goodson on third and Bernhardt on short making it hard for anybody to connect up for a grounder in
that direction and reach first safely. As the score of this game indicates, there are also some heavy hitters on
the Fresh squad.

Capt. Tom Hill showed ’em “how it ought to be done” when it comes to the mat, didn’t he? That
was a big match up at Richmond, with wrestlers from all over the country participating, and it was no small
honor or easy task to win a national title against ’em but Tom did it and is now champion of
the United States in the 165-pound class!

Last Saturday ended the Tech Relays as well as many old records, for the present. The Wildcats, with Currie and
Whittle their best hopes, failed to take a first place but did pull down two seconds—Currie in the 100 and
Whittle in the 220 low hurdles. Taking into consideration that the 220 record was shattered, with Whittle pushing the winner,
makes a second place in that event plenty good, especially as the time for that was only 23.2 seconds.

“Whiz” Miller’s batting eye surely was OK in the W. & L. game. The 'Cats’ left-fielder connected with the offerings
of the General’s twirlers for a home run and a double out of four times up. Capt. Ratchford is also
hitting the old pill, collecting two hits in the W. & L. and one in the V. M. I. game.
The ’Cat nine defeated the former but lost to the latter, both games being featured mainly by errors on each
team.

Had the Tech relays come about two weeks later than they did, Capt. John Currie would very probably have been
the winner of the 100-yard dash. Due to recent illness, Davidson’s star dashman is not in the best of form
at present, but came out second in the 100 in the Tech relays nevertheless. Currie was judged the winner of
this dash by two judges but three favored Gordon of Indiana.

The golf team made a good start in the state intercollegiate matches, defeating Duke, but lost in a hard-fought match
to the Carolina team the next day. In the final match at Greensboro, however, Jack Pepper and Julian Hutaff got
off some pretty shots, the former being runner-up for low score and the latter winning the driving honors with 759
yards for three balls. That's socking the little white ball all right!

Fellows, the Clemson Tigers will be here this weekend with their track squad and if it’s as good as their
football team was last Fall, it’s going to be a struggle worth seeing. This will very probably be the case
so let's be out there and help the ’Cats pay back that gridiron defeat.

King Baseball reigns undisputed now, with the old willow cracking against the apple from sandlot to Polo Grounds. As usual,
practically every team in every league is slated as sure winner of the pennant, but this number will rapidly decrease
with the first few games. There is a rumor that the “Sultan of the Swat,” none other than the great
Ruth himself, has seen his best days, but this will, in all probability, remain a rumor throughout the season.

John Currie, Spring champion of the Carolinas, and holder of the North Carolina record for the 100- and 220-yard dashes.
Currie is running his last season with the Davidson College track team and still “burns up the track.”

Catawba Defeated By Davidson Fresh

Aycock of Visitors High Point Man With 15 Points

The Davidson College Freshman defeated Catawba College in a very exciting track meet held on Richardson Field, Tuesday, April 9,
by a score of 73 to 44. Competition was close in all events except the discus, the broad jump, the
shot put, and the javelin. These four events turned the tide in favor of the “Wildkittens” as Catawba was able
to clinch only two third places for a total of two out of twenty-seven points in them. High point man
for the meet was Aycock, of Catawba, who took three first places for a total of fifteen points. He was
closely followed by Lillard, of Davidson, with thirteen points. Following are the results of the various events:

100 yard dash—Aycock (C), Gorham (D), McGehee (D). Time, 11 sec.
Mile—Brannon (D), Fletcher (C). Time, 4 min., 53.4 sec.
220 yard dash—Aycock (C), Buckner (C), Hunsucker (C). Time, 24.8 sec.
High Hurdles—Fletcher (C), Mann (D). Time, 20 sec.
440 yard dash—Aycock (C), McGehee (D), McLauchlin (D). Time, 57 sec.
Low Hurdles—Gorham (D), Campbell (C), Kuykendall (D). Time, 29 sec.
880 yard dash—Norton (D), Fletcher (C), Pardington (D). Time, 2 min., 11.5 sec.
High Jump—Campbell (C), Trexler (C), and Bettis (D), tied for second. Height, 6 feet.
Pole vault—Leslie (D), Campbell (C), Rosemand (C). Height, 9 ft. 6 in.
Discus—Lillard (D), Regen (D), Roane (D). Distance, 119 ft. 11 in.
Broad jump—Roane (D), Guy (D), Campbell (C). Distance, 17 ft. 6 in.
Shot Put—Milton (D), Lillard (D), Moore (C). Distance, 39 ft. 8 in.
Javelin—Lillard (D), Buckner (D), Arnold (D). Distance, 156 ft. 8 in.

DR. HILL TO SPEAK (Continued from page 1)

Two years ago, Dr. Hill was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Fayetteville, N. C. He was at Davidson
last commencement to deliver an address before the General Alumni Association of the College. The Student Council of the Woman’s
College of Western Reserve University has petitioned the Faculty to restore compulsory attendance at Chapel. This was made voluntary eighteen
months ago, and the result was so disastrous that the Council felt that for the real good of the student-body
attendance should be required.

Currie and Whittle Win Honors in Two Contests At Georgia Tech Relays

Davidson Stars Place in Dash and Hurdles

MANY RECORDS BROKEN

Relay Team Fails to Place in Distance Medley as Indiana Wins

On last Saturday, Davidson was represented in the annual Tech Relays by a relay team composed of Brohard, Kell, Currie,
and Lafferty, and by Currie and Whittle running the hundred yard dash and the 220 high hurdles respectively. In the
nineteen events making up the final day of the relays, 12 new champions were crowned which indicates the quality and
the number of the men who participated in the various contests. Davidson's only places were gained by John Currie in
the hundred yard dash and by Heath Whittle in the 220 low hurdles, each winning a close second in the
final heat. Gordon, of Indiana, took high honors in the century, barely nosing out John Currie in ten flat.which time
has been bettered by the latter by four-tenths of a second. In the 220 hurdles, Whittle, with a final effort,
came in only about a foot behind Beard of Auburn. The latter established a new record of 24.2 seconds for
this event. Whittle’s best time prior to this was 26.2, and so he set a new record for Davidson.

The relay team, as the rest of the southern relay teams, failed to place in the distance medley, Indiana and
Michigan Normal carrying off all honors in this part of the field. The 'Cat team came out fourth in the
event, however. Although the winners of the relays are not determined by team scores but are picked as individuals, Indiana
was easily the winner over the other competitors in points registered. Auburn led in the number of records crashed, breaking
three of the dozen.

Washington and Lee Bows to ’Cat Nine
V. M. I. Wins From Davidson in First Game of Trip

The Davidson baseball squad broke even on the first two games of their Virginia trip, losing to V. M. I.
on Friday, and defeating W. and L. last Saturday. Davidson took the Generals into camp with a count of 10-4,
but lost to the Cadets 7-3. “Buck” held the W. and L. team well in check during the second game
while the rest of the team supported him admirably both in the field and at the plate. The Generals also
helped him to the best of their ability by donating five runs due to errors.

Each team made nine hits, but Davidson got a total of sixteen bases off of hers while the Generals managed
to hit for an extra base only once. W. and L. made nine errors against four for the Carolinians. Miller
got two hits, one a double and another a home run, to take the hitting honors of the day. Littlejohn
got a triple and Ratchford hit a double for extra base hits by the Davidson men. Marrow raised his total
number of victims by striking seven of his opponents out and assisting in one double play.

Twelve errors slowed up the V. M. I. game. Davidson started the scoring in the first frame when two singles,
a base on balls, and an error scored two runs. Another was scored in the eighth. V. M. I. scored
in the second, third, and eighth innings. Marks got the only triple of the game.

“Drugs” “Prescriptions”

“SPRING IS HERE”
HAVE A CHOCOLATE SUNDAE

You haven't had a real chocolate sundae until you taste one made at our FOUNTAIN. Smooth chocolate syrup with the
full chocolate flavor. Certainly hits the spot. Many other appetizing drinks.

Make Our Store Your Store
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“Prescriptions” “Drug Sundries”

Star Hurdler

Heath Whittle, of Atlanta, Ga., sprinter and hurdler for Davidson College’s track team. Whittle is expected to count for many
Davidson points during the entire season and has developed remarkably since last spring. He holds both of the Davidson College
records in the low and high hurdles and is expected to break those this season.

Hired!
Boss—And you say this is the first position you have ever held?
Sweet Young Thing—Oh, yes sir, I’m from the army of the unenjoyed.

Pills
The kind you take.
The kind you smoke,
The kind you take out by mistake.

She—I've decided to kiss you, but you don’t deserve it.
He—Then why punish me?

History Prof.—Why can't you keep these dates in your head?
Co-ed—I have too many of my own to remember.

R. H. E.
Davidson 100 113 130—10 9 4
W. & L. 000 000 301— 4 9 9
Batteries: Davidson, Marrow, McInnis, and Armfield; W. & L., Mount, White, and Taliaferro.

R. H. E.
Davidson 200 000 010— 3 6 5
V. M. I. 010 122 00x— 7 7 7
Batteries: Davidson, Kugler and Armfield; V. M. I., Williams and Blocker.

On the campus, or for formal occasions, John Wards have been the authentic footwear for many years. Our styles are
designed especially to meet the college man’s requirements.

On Display By
BILL BAILEY AND DEAN RUSK
208 Watts

Wildcat Racketeers Win Victories Over Erskine and Furman
Davidson Wins First Matches on Home Courts

ERSKINE DEFEATED 6-0
DeMent and Burtes of Furman Win Singles Over Johnston and Roddey

The D. C. tennis team played its first matches on the home courts of this season by downing the strong
teams from Erskine and Furman University. The 'Cat racketeers showed brilliant form against Erskine last Friday by defeating them without
losing a match. They had a somewhat harder time with the Furman quartet but doubled the score 4-2. Previous to
these matches, the Wildcats had defeated both of these teams 6-0 on foreign courts.

In the Erskine match, Davidson lost only one set and that was in the doubles match between Roddey and Johnson
of Davidson and Kennedy and Pressley of Erskine. The Davidson pair finally won this by the score of 6-2; 2-6;
7-5. Furman took two singles matches, DeMent defeating Johnson and Burtes beating Roddey. Davidson lost only one set in the
remaining matches of the encounter.

The results of the match follow:
Singles with Erskine: Halverstadt (D) defeated Nickles (E), 6-2, 6-1; Roddy (D) defeated Pressley (E), 6-3, 6-4; Johnston (D) defeated
Kennedy (E), 6-1, 6-4; and Poe (D) defeated Gillis (E), 6-2, 6-2.
Doubles with Erskine: Poe and Halverstadt (D) defeated Gillis and Nickles (E), 8-6, 6-3; and Roddey and Johnston (D) defeated
Kennedy and Pressley (E), 6-2, 2-6, 7-5.
Singles with Furman: Halverstadt (D) won from Abrams (F), 6-3, 7-5; DeMent (F) won from Johnston (D), 6-4, 1-6, 6-4;
Burts (F) won from Roddey (D), 9-7, 6-3; Poe (D) won from Cale (F), 6-3, 2-6, 6-4.
Doubles with Furman: Roddey and Johnston of Davidson defeated DeMent and Burts of Furman, 6-1, 6-3; Poe and Halverstadt of
Davidson defeated Abrams and Cale of Furman, 6-3, 6-0.

Clemson Meet

Saturday afternoon at 2 o’clock the Davidson Wildcats will meet the Clemson Tigers in a track meet. This will be
the first time in three years that Davidson has tested with Clemson on Richardson Field. According to results of the
Cats in recent meets, including the Tech Relays, Davidson is slightly favored to win. Currie and Whittle are expected to
be at their best in the dashes and hurdles, respectively, while Leftwich and Regen are in fine shape for the
weights. Bailey and Gardener are also expected to show up well in the jumps.

Insurance One of the Least of Automobile Costs.
Gasoline and Oil 25%
Depreciation 20%
Repairs 17%
Tires 15%
Garage 14%
Insurance, taxes, etc. 7%

Let us quote rates on Fire, Theft, Collision, and Property Damage insurance to prove that “insurance is one of the
least of automobile costs.” Telephone, write, or call for information. It's safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Company
Insurance Department

Fresh Country Vegetables
STAPLE AND FANCY GROCERIES
Shoes, Hosiery and Slickers
BARNETT and COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?
ANSWER No. 14: To disparage those engaged in the business of distribution would be foolish. They serve the world in
obvious and important ways. But would not the call to distribute the light of life appeal to a college man
more than the distribution of mere commodities? May not this be your call? Union Theological Seminary has helped many men
to a happy and achieving life; perhaps we could help you.
