THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1929

Week-End Guests

Davidson was the host of a large number of week-end visitors, on last Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. It is estimated that there were as many guests as have ever been on the campus before. A list of House Party visitors follows below:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Angie Ray Bryant, Converse.
Mary Stringfield, Converse.
Askin Ivey, Converse.
Annetta McLean, Converse.
Frances Weeks, Converse.
Ann Osteen, Converse.
Julia Marsh, High Point.
Daisy Bowen, Laurens, S. C.
Mary Clark, Salem College.
Miriam Mixson, Brenau.
Elise Cross, Columbia, S. C.
Rebecca McGarity, Charlotte.
Rocky Prince, Laurinburg.
Louise Davenport, Rocky Mount.
Dorothy Battle, Rocky Mount.
Dorothy Gardner, Converse.
Gwendolyn Witchin, Hollins.
Nancy Gorell, Winthrop.
Catherine Stokes, Charlotte.
Jane Morrison, Charlotte.
Lib Bryan, Raleigh.

Alumni
R. S. Abernethy, Charlotte.
Ed Douglas, Augusta, Ga.
Johnnie Smith, South Carolina.
Red Anderson, Anderson, S. C.
Ching Morrow, Tarboro.
Jim McNeely, Charlotte.
Bob McMillan, Chapel Hill.
Pete Glidewell, Chapel Hill.
Chas. Nesbit, Charlotte.
Jack Causey, Greensboro.
Mr. Morrison, Mooresville.

Pi Kappa Phi
Katherine Bowers, Washington.
“Pat” Ruffin, Wilson.
Sadie Lou Southerland, Goldsboro.
Elizabeth Triplett, Pine Bluff, Ark.
LaVerne Ware, Greensboro.
Estelle Mangum, Marion.
Francis Marshall, Rock Hill, S. C.
Sophie Marshall, Rock Hill, S. C.
“Neil” Sprott, Manning, S. C.
Virginia Hamer, Baltimore, Md.
Elizabeth Limehouse, Orangeburg, S. C.
Mary Neale Hobbs, Statesville.
Nancy Cox, Raleigh, N. C.
Mildren Smith, Salisbury.

Two Professors to Publish Books Soon
Studies of “Highway Systems” and “Bear” Are in Hands of Publishers

Dr. W. P. Cumming and Dr. C. K. Brown of the Davidson faculty have recently written books which are at present in the hands of the publishers.

Dr. W. P. Cumming, professor of English at Davidson, has written a book on the study of the bear. This particular study of the animal was made on an island off the coast of Alaska, during the past summer, and deals particularly with the brown and grizzly bear that inhabit that part of the country. The title of the book is, “My Friend the Bear.” It consists of the experiences of the author during the past summer while he was in Alaska; also stories and anecdotes gleaned from Mr. Holzworth, one of the foremost hunters in the United States, and Mr. Hassalborg, a trapper and prospector, who has been hunting bears since the days of '98. The island upon which the hunting was done is about 140 miles long and 30 miles wide, and was entirely uninhabited except for the hunters and the bears. The latter are very abundant there, contrary to the general rule; for they are nearly extinct in most other parts of the country.

Dr. C. K. Brown, professor of history at Davidson, has written a book on the highway systems of North Carolina. The book is a study of the development of the highway system in the state from its inception to the present day. It begins with a brief history of the early roads and trails used by the settlers and then moves on to the more modern developments that began in 1921. The modern highway system since 1921 is then thoroughly taken up and discussed in detail. Doctor Brown states that there are now nearly nine thousand miles of improved roads in the State, half of which are hard-surfaced. The North Carolina State Highway System started its famous road-building campaign in 1921 when a $50,000,000 bond was floated for road improvement and building. Since then the roads of North Carolina have steadily improved until today, they rank among the best in the nation. Over $115,000,000 is now invested in the public highway of the State.

R. O. T. C. UNIT (Continued from Page 1)
The second platoon in D Company took first honors on the straightest line, while the first platoon in the same company was judged second.

LITERARY SOCIETIES (Continued from Page 5)
The society will have the freshmen and the sophomores debate next time on, Resolved, That the United States should be on a parity with Great Britain in naval armament. The freshmen will have the negative side. From those who debate, two will be chosen from each class to debate on a new subject the following week.

“I’ve come with the gas bill.”
“My husband is out.”
“But there are his shoes.”
“How thoughtless of him! He’s gone off without them again!”

$29.50 STETSON “D” STORE Opposite Campus $34.50

Pi Kappa Alpha
Martha Dulin, Charlotte.
Mary Lee Lindsey, Taylorsville.
Mamie Hines La Rogue, Converse College.
Anne McLaurine, Charlotte.
Carolyn Highsmith, Gastonia.
Elizabeth Muldrow, Converse.
Helen Brawley, Charlotte.
Virginia McCanless, Hamlet.
Louise Ketchie, Statesville.
Virginia Kelly, Charlotte.
Pauline Webb, Statesville.
Mary Belle Deaton, Statesville.
Susie Mae Myers, Randolph-Macon.
Elizabeth Hardin, High Point.
Virginia Cunningham, Atlanta.
Flora McKinnon, Red Springs.
Johnsie Eastwood, Red Springs.
Louise Hogan, Greensboro.
Pauline Freeman, Hamlet.

Visiting Alumni and Friends
C. H. Mauzy, Ed Purdie, Tom James, Claude Doughton, Johnny McRae, Dick Royal, Jeter Brawley, “Mac” McClellan, W. M. Regen, C. W. Harrison, Clement Penn, D. F. Hunter, C. H. Little, Jim Hines.

Theta Upsilon Omega
Dorothy Edmonson, Charlotte.
Ellen Hawkins, Charlotte.
Irma Edmonson, Charlotte.
Julia Josephs, Charlotte.
Evelyn Josephs, Charlotte.
Beade Josephs, Charlotte.
Dorothy Hand, Charlotte.
Douglas Rankin, Charlotte.
Sara Turner, Atlanta, Ga.
Mrs. Allen Turner, Atlanta.
Frances Ayers, High Point.
Mary Landis, Red Springs.
Harriet Berry, Winston-Salem.
Louise Ruff, Converse.
Helen Rudisell, Converse.
Marion Tatum, Raleigh.
Elizabeth Gatewood, Ruffin.

Kappa Sigma
Alice Whitehead, Converse.
Kappa Eagle, Converse.
Kappa Fulghum, Converse.
Sarah Kate Ormond, Lexington.
Eva Hackney, Salem College.
Pat Summerset, Brenau.
Rosalie Wiley, Salisbury.
Grace Brown, Salisbury.
Mildred Smith, Salisbury.
Babe Jones, High Point.
Carolina Moffet, Davidson.

Phi Delta Theta
Mildred Richmond, N. C. C. W.
Christie Maynard, N. C. C. W.
Margarette Burke, Winston-Salem.
Josephine Hill, Burlington.
Olive Singleton, Shelby.
Belle Reid Martin, Winthrop.
LaVerne Brown, Converse.
Mary Emma Nichols, Converse.
Anna Preston, Charlotte.
Eleanor Kincaid, Charlotte.
Sara Wheeler, Charlotte.
Evelyn Wheeler, Charlotte.
Dot Byrd, Columbia, S. C.C. Alice Ennis, Salisbury. Eleanor Hottenstein, Sweet Briar. Beta Theta Pi Loraine Davis, Winter Haven, Fla. Lib Hardie, Charlotte. Minna Caldwell, Charlotte. Ghelin Hall, Burlington. Margaret Linn, Landin. Lura Abercrombie, Greensboro. Kay Robertson, Richmond, Va. Bonnie Martin, Converse College. Frances Shute, Converse College. Peggy McCluer, Tarboro. Ethel Kessler, Hollins College. Mary Willis Roddey, Rock Hill, S.C. Wooly, Charlotte. “Tot” Smith, Sumter, S.C. Montie English, Monroe. Carolyn Henry, Rock Hill, S.C. Dolores Ricardo, Madrid, Spain.

Visiting Brothers and Friends
Mr. and Mrs. Worth Williams, Charlotte; Mr. and Mrs. Zeke Johnson, Charlotte; Murphy McKinnon, Maxton, N.C.; Caleb Bell, Maxton, N.C.; Wayne Welbourne, U. of N.C.; Marshall Rand and “Bully” Brawley, U. of N.C.; Bob Grady, and Allen Whitehead, Wilmington, N.C.; Tom Hamilton, Union Theological Seminary; Charlie Bowers, Washington, N.C.; Mr. and Mrs. F.C. Kugler, High Point, N.C.; Mrs. A.S. Thomas, Greensboro, N.C.; Bob Covington, Clio, S.C.; K.P. Maddox, Greensboro, N.C.; Billy Mills, Shelby, N.C., and Henry Powell, U. of N.C.

Alpha Omega
Mary Janet Forshaw, Savannah, Ga. Mary Elizabeth Pinkston, Salem College. Elizabeth McFadden, Duke University. Geraldine Sayre, N.C.C.W. Marion White, Mebane. Carolyn White, Mebane. Katherine Madry, Louisburg. Elsie Gibson, Gibson. Virginia Little, Mitchell College. Penelope Alexander, U. of N.C.

Phi Gamma Delta
Margaret Gorrell, Winston-Salem. Carol Deane, Converse. Susan Guignard, Columbia, S.C. Frances Purdie, Dunn. Ann Carter Marsh, High Point. Katherine Berry, Brenau. Dot Smith, Brenau. Elizabeth Jones, Brenau. Jane Johnson, N.C.C.W. Pat Shreve, N.C.C.W. Mary Cannon, Concord. Gertrude McCollum, Spray. Grace Holbs, Spray. Mr. and Mrs. R.W. Walker, III, Salisbury. R.F. Dewey, U. of N.C. Buddy Hubard, U. of N.C. Donald Cook, U. of N.C. Julian Clark, U. of N.C. Frank Davis, U. of N.C. Jack White, U. of N.C. Bob Brock, U. of N.C. J.S. Foster, Jr., Winston-Salem. Bobby Long, Winston-Salem. Don Chipman, Winston-Salem. Ed Nash, Winston-Salem. Martin Foil, Concord. D.G. Wilson, Greensboro.

Pyramid Club
Ruth Lane Stikeleather, Converse. Eunice Glenn, Asheville. Dorothy Wooley, Charlotte. Gladys Goodwin, Concord. Margaret Strong, Charlotte. Mildred Rouse, Charlotte. Emily Frazer, Charlotte. Virginia Diemen, Charlotte. Elinor Belk, Charlotte. Grace Foster, Taylorsville. Susie McCutchen, Salisbury. Agnes Shackelford, Duke University. Jo Scott, Charlotte. Betty Young, Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha
Dot Fetzer, Converse. Lorraine Foster, Converse. Jane Leighton Richards, Converse. Nancy MacFie, Converse. Patsy Gilkerson, Bluefield, West Virginia. Martha Morrison, High Point. Pat Miller, Greensboro.

America. While most of the hunting was done on the island, some time was spent on the mainland, where the author and his companions hunted the mountain goat. Besides writing a book on the study of the bear, a great many photographs in still life were made, and 3,000 feet of film was used in the study of moving life. Doctor Cumming stated that this was one of the finest and most complete studies of the bear that has ever been accomplished in North America. He also stated that he hoped to have the film brought to Davidson to be shown to the student body. The book is still in the hands of the publisher, and no definite date has been made for its publication, as yet. The book was written by Doctor Cumming in his spare moments, while he was on the expedition. While hunting, he would take notes, and again on rainy days when he was confined to his cabin he would write more extensively.

Dr. C.K. Brown, associate professor of Economics, will have his book, “The History of the State Highway System of North Carolina” published in the coming spring. Doctor Brown's treatise on the highway system is both historical and analytical. The first few chapters are devoted to the history of public roads in North Carolina before the inauguration of the State Highway System.

Virginia Bracey, Charlotte. Mary Brooks, Bluefield, West Virginia. Betty Webb, Converse. Lucy Martin Currie, Davidson. Susan Moffet, Davidson. Daisy Caldwell, N.C.C.W. Sarah Withers, Converse. Frank MacCrary, Asheboro. Jack Cranford, Asheboro. Joe MacConnell, U. of Va. Spooney Dunlap, Rock Hill, S.C. John Currie, Greensboro. Riggs MacConnell, Woodbury Forest. Brandon Smith, Charlotte. Bud Guthrey, Charlotte. Walton Smith, Charlotte. Dutch Wearn, Charlotte. Perrin Dragan, Spartanburg, S.C. Nick Carter, Mt. Airy. Dick Flinn, Banner Elk. Mac King, Florence, Alabama.

Prevent Fires Every Day. Be careful in bending oops el d cigarettes. Matches and Smoking cause an annual loss of over $24,000,000. It's safer to have insurance—and not need it! Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department Dee Hall, Charlotte. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Friendly Five Shoes
The College Man Should Wear Bostonian Shoes

Christmas Cards
Now is the time to place your order for Personal Engraved Cards. A splendid assortment on hand. Come in and make your selection. W.S. HENDERSON

Eat LANCE’S Eats
Wild Cat Belts Felt Goods Sundries New Records Every Week Superior Soda Service W.S. HENDERSON Magazines Stationery Fountain Pens

Responsibility for UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY STANDS FOR Loyalty to Christ and His Word Scholarship combined with a passion for Evangelism a World Mission to be served by the trained sons of our Church POSSESSES A loyal, scholarly, evangelical Faculty A Seminary Spirit enriched by the prayers and services of her sons A Student body drawn from the South’s and Nation’s consecrated young manhood B.R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President Richmond, Virginia.