Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN February 7, 1929

“THE DAVIDSONIAN”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not be published.

AUBREY BROWN............... Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL................. Business Manager

F. D. C.
M. R. F.
Z. V.
V. A.
P. B.
D. P.
W. A.
V. B.

MORTAR BOARD
W. K. PRITCHETT............. Associate Editor
W. R. H.
L. ELY.......................... President
W. McDERMID................. Vice-President
E. S. HEEFNER................. Secretary-Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN
F. PRESTON
C. H. DUBOSE
C. RAGIN
R. GRAHAM
D. RUSK
W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
S. H. LONG
S. S. WILEY
J. P. McBRYDE
J. V. D. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1929

Latest novelty: The college student who studies for the love of it!

Let’s talk about just one Scotchman. He advertised a free lecture and gave it.

Snowballs and snowfalls let freshmen see that more things than one can cause ups and downs around here.

We'd like to see these Wildcats keep this habit of winning basketball games if it makes no particular difference. How about these Blue Devils tonight?

From the speedy and almost-unanimous decision to abolish senior biographies, one might think that some people were rather dissatisfied with their write-ups. Whatever brought the subject up for vote, common sense we think, we are glad that this step has been taken.

QUEER TACTICS

It may not be the very best form to criticize winning teams like the Varsity and Freshmen basketeers, but so often has our attention been called lately to certain practices that we cannot fail to raise a question. That players should employ tactics utterly unlike those of opposing teams in this matter of shouting at the man when he is attempting to ring a goal from the field seems entirely out of accord with the Davidson code. Not only does this seem to be unfair to the opposition, but it is anything but pleasing for the spectator who goes to see a game instead of a yell practice. If we are criticizing good basketball methods, we're sorry, but we don’t like to see a Davidson team employ such seemingly unsportsmanlike tactics which other teams have failed to adopt.

CHIEF MARSHAL: SENIOR’S CHOICE OR LITERARY SOCIETY’S

Before the customary selection of the chief marshal for Commencement by the literary societies, we want to advance the proposition that the selection of this officer be conducted in a different manner. It has been the custom—the tradition, if you will—to select a senior member of a literary society as chief marshal for graduation time. This practice arose and was enjoyed when literary societies were the most active organizations on the Hill and when they really influenced student life. Needless to say, although regrettable, this condition has changed and literary societies have even a more insignificant place at Commencement than during the year. Just why it was ever deemed wise for the societies to select the marshals is not evident, for their work has far more to do with affairs other than the program set aside for awarding of the certificates. Our proposition is this: That the Senior Class elect the chief marshal and that the Junior Class elect the four assistants in order that there may be chosen a more representative group and a group better able, perhaps, to act with the senior president and those in charge of arrangements.

WHERE TO?

Every day we are struck with the fact that great numbers of boys, on this and other campuses, are arriving at their Junior and Senior years still undecided as to their future occupation and place in life. This is by no means a new observation, but it grows upon one’s mind each day. Time was when the matter of a profession or business was easily decided in the home of the subject. Like father like son, in so many cases. Those days seem to be gone forever. Now the student passes through a long tedious period of indecision, a stretch of his best years handicapped by the lack of future vision, by the search for a starting point. You say that the formative time of life, those years of companionship with books and other boys, is meant to be spent in the testing and proving of the boy’s ability—in his personal work of finding the foundation. All very true, and good. Yet, we can’t forget the restlessness and longing for the way to open which will enable us to take a definite direction. There is no doubt in our mind that it is dangerous business to drift here and there through college hoping, and that is about all, to have the way shown clearly. The importance of an early choice of life work to future happiness cannot be overestimated. We would see a better college and a happier student body if every man answered in his own heart the question, Where to?

N. M. Minor Chords

REVELATION

Dark clouds are scudding fast across the sky;
The sun is hid, the wind is roaring by;
And in the quick blaze of the lightning flash
Dimly I see afar, lost with the crash,
The veiled glory of the Lord.

The purple ridges, hill on hill piled high,
Melt finally in the azure bowl of sky;
And vaguely, o'er the amethystine height
And through the emerald valleys I can sight
The beauty-building Hand of God.

The tenement is dirty, drab, and chill,
The father drunken, and the mother ill,
The children steeped in outward misery;
But on each grimy smile I clearly see
Unveiled, the very Face of God!
—F. H.

Politeness is the art of concealing the fact that you would much prefer your visitor to be in Hades rather than in your drawing room.

It has always been our ambition to sign up for a class so large that it takes all of an hour to call the roll.

The latest educational idea is that culture should not be more than 99 percent physical.

Professor Peevish says that a word to the wife is even more than insufficient.

Americanism: Howling for freedom; joining a book club to dodge the responsibility of selecting your own reading.

Cosmic Chaos
By J. W. McCutchan

“Lucky Lindy” again carries the mail! This time he is a colonel carrying the inaugural mail from Miami to Panama. Nearly two years ago he crossed the Atlantic in his epic-making flight. Since then he has been acclaimed by thousands, wooed by flappers, has been the object of hero worship, lionized by civic organizations, promoted by the Army, and elected good-will ambassador-extraordinary. But in the last analysis it approaches irony to apply the term “Lucky” to a man with the foresight of Col. Charles A. Lindbergh.

Interesting is the comparison between Colonel Lindbergh and Colonel T. E. Lawrence of the British Army. Lawrence’s life reads like a historical romance. He, of all other single men, was probably the most responsible for the victory of the Allied cause in the World War. Alone, scorned by superior officers, supposedly in bad physical condition, he quickly formed half-barbarous Arabian tribes into an organized force which swept Turkey from the field and destroyed the Fourth Turkish Army. Disdaining decorations or rewards, Col. Lawrence is now serving as a private in the Royal Tank Corps to escape publicity. Both Lindbergh and Lawrence are reticent and stand aloof of pecuniary gain from their exploits. One is the greatest pioneer in transportation of the day, Lawrence is without doubt the greatest historical figure alive at this time.

It is indeed a pity that all men cannot do something of the grand and higher things in life. A perfect contrast alongside of these illustrious men would be Benny Mack, prize fighter, who recently shot a man in a brawl over a dog. Man’s life is taken for little in these days of quick triggers. Yet Lawrence wept at the sight of death, but once when justified, gave orders to a howling mob of three thousand Arabs to give no quarter.

Up to the present date it looks as if Young Stribling has had the best in his exchange of telegrams with Sharkey. If they fight as well as they write vindictive and threatening notes, it will be one battle of a millennium in Miami. There is much supposition as to whether they are merely getting personal or whether they desire to attain the Tunney touch in literature. And with it all the Manassas Mauler declares that he will and that he won't be back. Perhaps much depends on Estelle, but this is not a sport column.

Il Duce follows in the somewhat trite custom of the “older” generation and pans the younger one. Beauty parlors must go, and plastic surgery is a “has-been” in Italy. Centuries ago Cato and Cicero deplored the utter worthlessness and laziness, luxuria, of the fashionable younger set. It might weaken Mussolini’s morale if he could look in on one of the Roman banquets as were given in the “good old days.” Earl Carroll’s bath party fades into a compliance of the Blue Laws, in comparison.

Thoughts—while strolling: Five straight basketball games, And How! Pan-Hellenic dances in Charlotte with returning “studs.” Chinaberry Tree leafless and deserted, alas! Number of bricks in Chambers, page the Math department. A Frosh with a fresh falsetto mustache. Desire to clip it. Cold water in the Showers, B-R-r-r-r-r-r. Bed-time, but too many bull-sessions. More parallel, and withal another semester. A new record, Whoopee! Visions of a new Davidsonian office. Have to quit on that one.

Current Comment
By John Brown

WANTON WILES
By Dave Anderson

The United States Government is far behind other countries in the matter of forest development. We have in the United States about 470 million acres of land chiefly valuable for growing trees and good for very little else. All but about 130 million acres have been “cut over” but much of this has been so cut or burned that the trees are practically all gone. There are about 90 million acres of forest land which require replanting in forests, but the Government is acting so slowly that at the present rate it will take 1,000 years to replant these forests. May the administration under Hoover see fit to improve the situation so that our country may not become impoverished as China was.

A new alloy has recently been put on the market by the Krupp Works in Germany. This alloy contains only tungsten, carbon and cobalt, but it is much harder than thefinest steel. It is called “widia,” and takes its name from the contraction of “wie diamant”—like diamond. In hardness, it ranks next to diamond and takes a keener edge than steel and holds it longer. It can be used industrially to increase production and efficiency by as much as 400 percent. Its main drawback is its price. It sells for $500 per pound, or over twice its weight in gold. The present high price is due largely to the fact that the Krupp Works has a monopoly on it, but even at that, it is worth the price because of its great superiority in industrial uses of the finest cutting steel.

Dr. Hilferding, German Minister of Finance, recently presented the German budget for 1929, totaling $2,356,000,000, showing an increase of $85,204,000 over the budget of 1928. The chief item of increased expenditure is $74,375,000 for reparations payments. It will take a very long time for all the costs of the war to be paid, but Germany is setting a creditable example to others in paying reparations.

An English bishop has suggested a ten-year holiday for science to let humanity assimilate its knowledge and give more thought to spirituality. This has been attacked because it would “stay the hand of him who might bring relief” in the form of humanitarian service. The idea of more thought on spirituality is a good one, (Continued on page 6)

this paper, don’t you think? Greatest Newspaper. In re: True, brother, true: Most Prominent Men Murdered.” murder? The staff suggestions as to town. Thank you.) effect. one! state: United Press, etc.; get A. Brisbane which will not work. much-advertised show girls. 2. Worried: Use Listerine, my dear. “You bet. Not a calf in a carload.” sounding words to call him a dirty liar. Yes, gentle reader, “College Humor” is not the magazine we re-hash. This one we use costs less than “College Humor.” And the author is Scotch. As for the rest of his criticism, he is right, so we won’t argue. The present administration did some fine work in making this a standard six-column paper and it would be a backward step to return to the old size. There are other ways to remedy the trouble—we have one serious idea on the matter (score one for the common people) and several other ideas, which we will

THE BULL PEN

Did you read last week’s Open Forum? Just the same, we contend that it is Davidson’s The gentleman rather low-rated To the Open Forum, by “A Reader” (thank you, fellow). Davidson is an awfully dull place. Here’s this columnist’s solution to the problem: On a dark, dreary night, just to create news, we think it would be very nice if “A Reader” acquired a hammer and sneaked out the back door, returning with blood on his hands (see Shakespeare’s Macbeth for correct words and tune when washing hands). The next week’s Davidsonian then has plenty of news: “One of Davidson’s (Editor’s Note: take this seriously, will he kindly drop by the office some time before the No news at all. If “A Reader” should who are “prominent citizens” in this If nothing like that does happen, we will have to continue with stuff like this—what “A Reader” calls “re-hashed College Humor” or something to that effect. Since this is not an editorial, we won’t use a column of long, high-sounding words to call him a dirty liar. We will merely state facts: He is 1. The Davidsonian should get connected up with the Associated Press, United Press, etc.; get A. Brisbane to write a special column; run Will Rogers’ words and picture in a front-page box, etc. Of course, that would mean an expenditure of money but why be so materialistic? Money is not everything in the world (Yeah, but it sho’ can buy everything.) 2. The staff should create, besides the news-seekers, a news-creating department. A squad to throw bricks through the windows of the Dean’s house, to set fire to a few buildings, to form new clubs, fraternities, etc. But why go on? There are endless numbers of solutions to the problem.

THE HIGH COST OF LIVING Or What We Learned from Converse Queens (Number three of a series of articles based on experience, hearsay, etc.)

1. All the “gold-diggers” in this old world are not to be found among the much-advertised show girls. Converse is harder to get in than a double-vault bank. Before entering, you must fill out an entrance blank, something to this effect: Name (first, last and maiden, with prefixes) Aliases (not more than three, please) Name of ancestor who came over on the Cauliflower 3. We learn that Agnes-Scott and Sweetbriar girls have no “IT,” and are a waste of time (P.S. Here, too, we have our own ideas). 4. (The latest—picked up on our last trip South). That little curly-headed Sophomore at Wofford is a cute kid, and no foolin’.

MISS PRUDE’S ADVICE TO GIRLS Personals (Replies by Miss Prude, herself in person).

Miss Prude. Old Maid: Certainly, let him bring a friend. Three’s a witness. And if he tries to kiss you, most certainly do not call the police. Get your lawyer on the phone immediately if not sooner. Miss Prude. “That's a terrible looking bunch of legs over there, isn’t it?

A Contemporary Thought UNDERSTANDING

Baylor Lariat: It has been suggested that the best definition of the word “high-brow” is that “A high-brow is a person whose knowledge has exceeded his intelligence.” Socrates was no high-brow, but many college men are, if we accept this definition. Socrates did not set out to acquire knowledge particularly, but to understand those things that he did know. College men, sometimes, though by all means, not always, set out to accumulate as much knowledge as they can, and hurry from course to course to learn all about what the big words mean so that they can talk learnedly if not lucidly about psychology and sociology and etymology. By and by they build up a tottering structure of information swaying precariously on a slender structure of understanding. Every time one butts up against such a person a crumbling piece of precarious structure falls off to impress the casual listener with the diversity of knowledge which a mere four years at college has achieved. It is no wonder that the “high-brow” and the omniscient college boy is in disfavor in many parts, and that people often wonder why it is that a person who knows so much should make so many mistakes in the course of life, where the problems are the same to the educated and the uneducated alike.

“IF I ONLY COULD——”

The Ring-Tum-Phi: Thomas Arkle Clark, dean of men at the University of Illinois, and one of the best-informed men on college and fraternity affairs in the country, has made a list of things that he would do if he had to go through college again. Were Dean Clark to begin his college days anew he would:

1. Develop concentration—work harder but not so long.
2. Learn to work while others are around.
3. Put more stress on learning how to get information than upon the information itself.
4. Find more difficult tasks to do.
5. Learn to speak in public.
6. Learn to play some athletic game.
7. Learn to do one line of work particularly well.
8. Get better acquainted with his instructors.
9. Take fewer courses strictly practical.
10. Have an avocation which would bring him into close touch with men.

Perhaps he would do these things. Then again perhaps he wouldn't. We are inclined to think he wouldn't. But, take it or leave it, it’s good advice, and it won’t hurt any college man to think it over and try to try a few of Dean Clark’s recommendations during his undergraduate career.

COLLEGIATE

New York, N.Y.—(By New Student Service). The raucous jazz notes of “Collegiate, Collegiate, yes, we are Collegiate,” have penetrated the awful and silent depths of the dean’s office. It is not a welcome tune, and something ought to be done about it, say they. So, at the next convention of deans in April, the words will be revised to read “Yes, but are we collegiate?” Something may eventually be done about it. In the meantime, a questionnaire. Dean Henry Grattan Doyle of George Washington University has sent one to four hundred deans. He asks, among many questions: “Is neatness in appearance, as evidenced by clean shaving, well-shined shoes, starched linen, appropriate neckties of neat appearance and well-pressed suits of clothing, typical of your student body? Or, in the main, does the psychological attitude of your student body approve of slouchy and careless habits of dress and conduct or neat habits of dress and courteous manners?” It does not require a very keen mind to predict what the answer to that will be. Already the reassuring replies are coming back. From Wesleyan: “The present generation of students here, as I look upon them, are well-dressed, well-behaved, a very different type from what we had twenty-five years ago... . “Speaking in general of the morals of the community, I feel perfectly sure that they are on a higher plane than they have ever been.” We have a pretty strong conviction that Dean Doyle will be able to report at the convention that on the word of 390 deans this generation is the best yet. (The one exception will be Harvard, which has already refused to answer the questions.) But aren't the deans waking up to the collegiate menace two or three years late? Collegiatism is dying out in the colleges, though it will linger on in remote colleges, in front of drugstores, and on vaudeville platforms for a long while. There is something of romantic excess in the collegiate costume that is out of key with these prosaic times. Bell-bottom trousers, un-anchored socks and such-like are as much relics of the past as is the fashion of carrying the American Mercury. (College boys read The New Yorker now.) The fearful dean should read any “What Young Men are Wearing” column in the magazines that cater to college youth. There college men are being told that a neat conservative appearance is a “valuable asset” and that “anyone in the business world who hopes to make good is lost without it.” The garter manufacturers depict in full-page ads the terrible tragedies that befall those who have no “Sox Appeal” and the Arrow collar people are out gunning for the informal roll-collared shirt of the out-of-style “drugstore cowboy.” Even the coonskin coat is passing. Other times, other manners. The collegiate mode is passing out. The reason it is going is the reason why all fashions change. The hoi polloi, drug clerks and farm hands, have caught up with it. The next job for college men is to create a new fashion. Otherwise, the four years would be wasted, and there would be no way to distinguish between those who have had the privilege of a college education and those who have not.