January 17, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONK’S BASKETEERS GET FIRST WIN

CAT TRAX

As They Follow the Red and Black

By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Well, judging by the way the Wildcats tamed the Wofford Terriers Monday night, they are ready to put on full steam. Every man on the team was shooting like a demon. Frontis Johnson proved that he has arrived—he couldn’t miss. Jimmy Moore came through with some nice baskets. Of course, Pritchett and Calhoun were in there all the time, and Bill Goodson’s floor game was a beauty. Just wait till after exams and then watch those old Cats go.

The Wildcats' game against Carolina was a great one, and they came so close to winning that clash that it was hard to swallow the defeat. A few more crip shots and there would have been a different story. There were five fighting Cats out on the court and they meant business. Something’s got to be done about the way these boys break for the ball around the basket. It will mean more points when they learn to break at the right time. The Tar Heels showed a pretty good passing game but their shooting was nothing to brag about. In fact, they blew up badly near the close of the half and were trying shots from impossible angles. They'll never win the conference title this year, though, of course, they will be a lot better as the season goes on. This big guard Brown was getting some mighty lucky baskets from around mid-court. Anyway, they couldn’t get through the Davidson defense to try many crips.

Monk has a mighty good potential team. If the boys get to passing that ball and working together better, there will be plenty of trouble radiating out from the old Wildcat lair. Everybody except Calhoun and Crawford is due to return next year, and that being the case, Davidson should have a peach of a quint in 1930.

Seems like the Freshmen always have hard luck or something very much like it against these Junior College Teams. Wingate came up and handed them a close licking—33 to 31—but it was a licking just the same. We hope the Kittens tear things up on their trip through the Old Dominion. They meet the freshman teams of the same schools which the varsity meets.

There is talk going around of a “Tin-can” for Davidson. Something on the order of Carolina’s now famous “Can.” There is a big need for the structure here, and we hope that by another season the Wildcats will be playing in it. Not only basketball, but mass calisthenics can be handled in the proposed building. The erection of the “Can” would certainly be in keeping with Davidson's constructive program.

(Continued on page 6)

Wildcat Wrestlers Rounding Into Form

Veteran Team to Take Mat for Davidson

The Wildcat wrestlers are practicing daily and they are fast rounding into mid-season form under the watchful eye of Coach Buck Miles, former V. P. I. mat star. This year Davidson has many veterans from last year’s squad and several former freshman grapplers who are making a strong bid for the varsity. Last year the Wildcats were the runners-up for the state championship. The matmen were victorious over N. C. State, University of North Carolina, Concord Y. M. C. A., and Washington and Lee, losing to Duke and V. M. I.

The following men are showing up well and are making strong bids for their respective positions: One hundred and eighteen pound class, Preston, Cowan; one hundred and twenty-eight pound class, Flythe; one hundred and thirty-eight pound class, Brown, Estridge and King; one hundred and forty-eight pound class, Herriott and Johnson; one hundred and fifty-eight, Brock, Brohard and Christenbury; light heavyweight, Captain Hill and “Hub” Covington; heavyweight, Warren and Boyle.

Manager Brohard, who also wrestles in the one hundred and fifty-eight pound class, announced the schedule, as follows: February ninth, V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.; February twelfth, Carolina at Chapel Hill; February nineteenth, North Carolina State; February twentieth, Duke University; March second, Washington and Lee (Pending).

Davidson Runs Wild And Whips Wofford Court Men With Ease

Rejuvenated Felines Show Accuracy and Pep to Snow Under Old Foes

JOHNSON STARS

Dargan Plays Beautiful Game for Losers—Last Contest for Cats Before Exams

As if in vengeance for the defeat administered on the grid this fall, the Davidson Wildcats took the Wofford Terriers into camp on Monday night in the local gym, 40 to 30. This was the Red and Black's first triumph of the season on the hardwood floor. The Wildcats were working together in great shape, and their defense was superb. The game was marked by the brilliant defensive work of both teams against their opponent’s passing attack. Davidson got the best of the shooting game, but the passing was about equally divided.

Capt. Pritchett of the Wildcats led his team in great style and his floor-work was a feature of the contest. Johnson of the locals captured the high-point honors of the evening with 22 points. The defensive work of Shepherd and Goodson was an asset to the Wildcats in victory. Calhoun’s work was of great aid in the contest. Rusk, Moore, Crawford, and Proctor also saw service and turned in a good game.

The Davidson team was handicapped by lack of seasoned men at the opening of the season, but they are “getting their sea-legs” now, and should make a big noise in the cage circles of Tarheelia.

LINE-UP AND SUMMARY

Wofford
Harper, f
Johnson, c
Dargan, g
Jeffries, g
Law, g
Totals

Davidson
Pritchett, f
Calhoun, f
Shepherd, f
Rusk, c
Johnson, g-c
Goodson, g
Moore, g
Crawford, g
Proctor, g
Totals

Spring Football to Start After Exams

Two Months of Stiff Training Ahead for Aspirants

Spring football training will start on Monday, January 28th, immediately following the regular mid-semester examination week. Those who expect to go out during this early training period will give their names to coaches Younger and Till between January 21st and 23rd, together with their preference as to position to be played. Coach Younger states that he will begin the issuing of uniforms on the 24th to those qualifying for the practice. This distribution will continue for three days, ending on Saturday the 26th.

Training this year will consist of two months of intensive practice in all departments of the game, and after the first preliminary workouts have been conducted and the players are fairly well limbered up, beginning the second month, games will be played regularly every Saturday afternoon. This announcement, given out by Coach Younger, should prove to be of great interest to a large part of the student body, since many are expected to turn out for this training. In addition to all old members of the squad, a number of Freshmen will turn out, swelling the probable total number to around seventy-five.

How They Shoot

Wildcats Drop Hard Battle to Carolina By Score of 34-21

Last Half Rally Enables Former Champions to Lick Younger’s Men

DAVIDSON FIGHTS

Brown, Tar Heel Guard, Rings up Long Shots to Spoil Wildcat Chances—Davidson Leads at Half

The University of North Carolina Tar Heels pulled a late rally to down Monk Younger’s quintet in the game played Saturday night in Charlotte. The Wildcats outplayed their opponents in the early stages of the conflict and ended the half on the long end of a 12 to 8 count. Unable to penetrate the stiff defense of the Davidson lads, Carolina resorted to long shots, and in the closing minutes of play drew away to a safe lead. Brown, a big guard, was the boy who started the Heels on their way to victory, his sensational goals from mid-court breaking a 16-16 deadlock.Doped to lose by a large score, the Wildcats put up a valiant battle against the four-time Southern Champions and threatened to the very last. Johnson dropped in several beautiful long shots for a total of six points, with Captain Pritchett nosing him out for high scorer by virtue of five foul goals and one field basket. Cathey, center for the Tar Heels, led the field in total points. The Wildcats got together and presented a well-nigh impregnable defense to the Tar Heels in their efforts to dribble or pass close to the basket. It was long shots that pulled the game out of the fire and gave Jim Ashmore’s men the palm. Davidson had many chances to score on crip shots, but invariably the Cats failed to make them count. Some five hundred fans packed the Central High School Gymnasium to see the Wildcats go down to a hard defeat. The game was thrilling throughout. Lineup and summary:

Carolina
Atterneld: 3 0 6
Hackney: 2 0 4
BHC: 0 0 0
Cathey: 0 2 2
WIY: 0 0 0

Davidson
Pritchett: 1 5 7
Canale: 4 0 4
Rusk: 0 3 3
Wood: 3 0 6
Goodson: 0 1 1
McGough: 0 0 0

Referee: Rawson of Georgia.

“Collegiate” Survey Conducted by Doyle

Davidson College has been invited to participate in a nation-wide survey of educational institutions, undertaken to ascertain the real status of the so-called “collegiate” in American college life. Henry Grattan Doyle, Dean of Men of George Washington University, Washington, D.C., has addressed a questionnaire to the Dean asking a number of significant questions pertaining to the “collegiate.” He wants to know whether the “collegiate” is the typical college student; also whether slouchy dress or neatness in appearance is typical of the student body. He further asks whether student opinion favors neat dress and courteous manners or approves slouchy appearance and careless habits of dress and conduct. Other queries calculated to classify the “collegiate” are also made.

A similar questionnaire has been sent to the Deans of four hundred leading colleges. When replies are received, Dean Doyle believes he will have a survey which will be of wide informative value, which may be presented to the annual convention of the Association of Deans and Advisors of Men in Washington, April 11, 12.

“I am sure that in common with me, you have felt and sometimes chagrin over the mental picture of the ‘collegiate’ boy or girl which the general public has apparently created during recent years,” says Dean Doyle, in his letter of inquiry. “I feel that this imaginary individual is by no means typical. For the purpose of contributing something toward the correction of what I believe to be erroneous public opinion and the creation of correct opinion founded on facts, I am sending this letter to deans in a number of the leading colleges and universities throughout the country in order to get a consensus of fact and opinion which can be presented to the public.”

Dean Doyle then propounds the following questions:

1. (a) Is the “collegiate” of the humorous press and the vaudeville stage the typical student of your college? or
(b) Is he an exception in the personnel of your enrollment, and if so, what percentage of the total student body is like him?

2. (a) Is a slouchy appearance, as evidenced by garterless socks, rumpled shirt and collar, sloppy shoes, and wrinkled suits of clothing, typical of your student body? or
(b) Is neatness in appearance, as evidenced by clean shaving, well-shined shoes, starched linen, appropriate neckties, and well-pressed suits of clothing, typical of your student body?

3. (a) In the main, does the psychological attitude of your student body approve slouchy and careless habits of dress and conduct or neat habits of dress and courteous manners?
(b) Is there any appreciable attitude of disfavor in your student body toward carelessness in dress and manners?

4. Is there, in your opinion, any connection between the attempt to be “collegiate” and such problems as:
(a) Drinking?
(b) “Necking”?
(c) Neglect of class work?
(d) Dishonesty in examinations?
(e) Other ethical problems?

5. Does the “collegiate” type of student referred to in the opening of this letter excel, as a rule, in:
(a) Scholastic standing?
(b) Sports?
(c) Other student activities?

6. In your opinion, is the “collegiate” type diminishing or increasing?

7. Do you or do you not agree with me that in general our student bodies are composed of reasonably serious young people, whose ideals and standards of conduct compare favorably with those of preceding generations—in short, that their faults are faults of manners rather than morals?

If all the students who have eight o'clock classes were hauled out of bed at six in the morning and placed side by side, they would stretch—Montana Kaimin.

Davidson Wildcats Downed by Furman

Initial Clash of Season Finds Locals in Ragged Form

In the first game of the season, played last Wednesday night, the Wildcat basketeers lost to Furman by a score of 55 to 40. It was a very ragged game and was marred by fouls and the bad passing of both teams. Davidson jumped into an early lead and ran up 16 points in rapid-fire order, holding Furman to 3. It looked as if it might be a runaway for the Wildcats. Furman, however, snapped out of it and quickly jumped into the lead which they never relinquished thereafter. They were leading at the half 24 to 22. Furman kept up her scoring in the second half and ran up 55 points. Watson, center for the Furman team, was high point man of the game, scoring 24 points. Capt. Pritchett of the Wildcats was second with 16 points. His footwork and general playing were pretty to see. Coach Monk ran in a number of substitutes during the game, trying out his men, and attempting to find the best combination.

LINEUP
Davidson (40) Furman (55)
Pritchett (16) RF Burts (14)
Calhoun (10) LF Huff (15)
Rusk (8) C Watson (24)
Moore (1) RG Beasley
Goodson (5) LG Davis

Scoring subs: Wakefield (Furman) (2); Referee—Rawson.

Los Angeles—(IP)—The Commuters’ School is the latest educational venture in Southern California. Several educational institutions in this section have combined to offer courses to suburbanites for study while traveling to and from their work. The school, begun this Fall, seeks to put to more profitable use the time usually spent in playing card games or in general reading, and is open to all who ride in the cars of the Pacific Electric Railway. Fees are small. The pupil is self-taught, but may consult an instructor if he wishes. And the textbooks are small and easy to carry.

No visitor to Normandy ever considered his tour complete until he had made the pilgrimage to Mont St. Michel and the Inn of the Famous Omelet—Chez Madame Poulard. Incomparable, la Fameuse Omelette. The Madame is since gone, but not until just before she died did she reveal the secret of her famous omelets. No doubt hundreds have tried—and struggled in vain—to use the precious information, but as a writer has put it, the Inn without Madame is “like Tara's hall without the harp!” The making of a great cigarette, too, is a secret to be guarded. The artistry lies in how the tobaccos are blended—and from our own private formula comes the rich fruity flavor that you get in your Chesterfield. Suffice it to say that our blend can’t be copied—nor for mildness with flavor can you duplicate the rare Chesterfield goodness.

CHESTERFIELD
MILD enough for anybody... and yet... THEY SATISFY
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.