THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 31, 1929

Collegiate Comment

FEATURES

On This and That

Music By Horace W. Erwin

The Organ

Seated one day at the organ, I was weary and ill at ease, And my fingers wandered idly Over the noisy keys. I do not know what I was playing, Or what I was dreaming then; But I struck one chord of music Like the sound of a great Amen.
—From "The Lost Chord." —Adelaide A. Procter.

The organ in its modern and most complete form is the largest, most powerful, and most varied in its resources of all musical instruments. It is almost capable of the qualities of a symphony orchestra. The sight of one, however, with its several manuals and multifarious pipes and stops offers no hint of its lowly origin. It is an arresting fact that this largest of all instruments is a descendant of the simple pipe played by the shepherds on the hillsides of ancient Greece. The first indication of growth arose with the arrangement of the pipes in order and the supply of wind for them so that they could produce tones without being blown into separately. It is recorded that about 170 B.C. an Alexandrian mechanic invented a hydraulic organ in which the wind supply was furnished by water pressure. This instrument did not survive. Most organs were furnished with air by two attendants who blew into a tube connected to the wind-chest. The earliest organs had a small compass of but one octave. They consisted of a row of upright pipes, the length of which were arranged to regulate the pitch of the tones, and sounded when air was admitted through a valve at the bottom of the pipes. The valves were controlled by slides which could be pulled in and out by the players. We have a vivid description of this from a Greek writer of the Fourth Century, A.D.: "I see a strange sort of reeds—they must methinks have sprung from no earthly, but a brazen soil. Wild are they, nor does the breath of man stir them, but a blast, leaping forth from a cavern of oxhide, passes within, beneath the roots of the polished reeds."

The organ assumed its place in church music about the Fifth Century, but no radical improvement in its structure appeared until the Eleventh or Twelfth Century, when a keyboard was added. The keys were very clumsy, ranging from three to six inches in width, and had to be struck by the player’s clenched fist—when he was called “organ-beater.”

Our Organ

The modern instrument is well represented by the Skinner in our own auditorium. The astounding improvement of the present organ over the medieval can be inferred from the fact that the Skinner in Chambers does not comprise, strictly speaking, a single organ, but no less than four, which are present in the three manuals, Great, Swell, and Choir, and in the Pedal. Combinations and adjustments can be effected to unite these different organs. Of the Manual, the Great Organ has 444 pipes, the Swell 1,108, the Choir 428; of the Pedal there are 112, making a total of 2,092 pipes behind the walls on the platform. The Pedal can increase its number by “borrowing” from lower registers of the pipes of the other organs. Our instrument is distinctive in that very little “borrowing” is necessary, which indicates the completeness of the organs. The four tonal qualities of the organ are important: Diapason (pure tone, indigenous to the organ), Reed, Flute, and String. Trios, quartets, and ensembles can thus be built up, and a symphony orchestra can be imitated by combinations of all divisions. The action of the instrument is electric and pneumatic throughout on a thoroughly modern principle. There are no mechanical connections between keyboard and organ chambers, as of old, for modern science has given electrical contact. Power is furnished by a 7½ horsepower motor in the basement, and a huge blower conveys wind for each organ through galvanized air ducts. Mastery over the organ comes only after years of diligent study and application. Davidson is indeed fortunate in having

BOOKS WE HAVE READ

This column is a new venture, will appear every week on this page. Its purpose is to present to the students a brief survey of some of the new, and of the old but obscure books, which have real literary value. A report is submitted each week by one of the eight men who comprise the Book Review Club. It is believed that college men should have wide and liberal knowledge of the better books, and it is hoped that a column such as this will do much to create interest in them.

All Quiet on the Western Front, by Erich Maria Remarque. Little, Brown & Co., Boston, 1929. $2.50.

“All Quiet on the Western Front” is considered by many as the first great war novel which has been published since the Great War. Certainly the book has a greatness which the average war novel does not have. Erich Maria Remarque takes the narrative from his own war experiences. There are four main characters, although millions come upon the stage. These four are young men at the beginning of the war—barely eighteen years of age. We are presented glimpses of these men as they serve down to the close of the war. One feels with them the hardships of the struggle—the pains of battle and the cries of dying comrades. Toward the end, only one of the four is left, and he is an old man then. Later, he too perishes. Remarque has given us a vivid picture of war with its poignant tragedies. He shows us the field of combat and the quiet before the battle—the deadly quiet which wrecks men’s nerves. However, on the other hand, he also shows us happy moments which come during hours of rest. But above all there is a sadness, an inevitable gloom. Remarque says that his book is a tale of a generation of men, who, though they have escaped its death, were destroyed by the war. This German writer takes us to the very depths of things, and asks us “WHY?” even in war. The German has just killed a Frenchman. There is a deadly silence. The man thinks. He must talk. “Comrade, I did not want to kill you. If you jumped in here again, I would not do it, if you would be sensible too. But you were only an idea to me before, an abstraction that lived in my mind and called forth its appropriate response. It was that abstraction I stabbed. But now, for me, I thought of your hand-grenades, your bayonet, of your rifle; now I see your wife and your face and our fellowship. Forgive me, Comrade. We always see it too late. Why do they never tell us that you are just poor devils like us, that your mothers are just as anxious as ours, and that we have the same fear of death, and the same dying, and the same agony—Forgive me, Comrade; how could you be my enemy. If we threw away these rifles and this uniform, you would be my brother just like Kat and Albert. Take twenty years of my life, Comrade, and stand up—take more, for I do not know what I can even attempt to do with it now.”

This book is one of the greatest contributions ever made to the advancement of peace among the nations of the world. It is a step toward understanding, coming as it does from the very heart of this German soldier. It is a human writing, filled with the deepest emotions of the writer’s heart—a great achievement. Every man owes it to himself and to the world to read this book.
—William S. Lea.

The bigger the summer vacation the harder the fall.

Freshman—“Gee, I’m in an awful hole.”
Sophomore—“What’s the matter?”
Freshman—“I’ve spelled ‘professor’ with two f’s and don’t know which one to cross out.”

Speaking of “floating universities,” you've got to hand it to Papa Noah.

Then there was the Scotchman who bought the car because the clutch was thrown in.

English Prof.: “What do you think of Shakespeare’s plays?”
Freshman:“What team does he play on?” Such a consummate artist as Dean Vardell of Salem College will give the dedicatory recital tomorrow evening. It is impressive to reflect that if he uses but half the pipes of the instrument, he will be giving a performance which would require the concerted effort of 1,046 shepherd pipers of ancient Greece.

Nouvelle Evant-hier Boost Davidson R. E. W.

Interesting work this! A search for material is a gymnastic feat of strength; delving into long-closed chapters of a life, with eager eyes as the spade of judgment; climbing down long years, searching every landing for the muddy steps of those who passed before; roaming through a weird necropolis, stumbling on dead bodies of forgotten men, catching glimpses of their errors, their faults, and now and then twisting the hidden stone of mystery to have the soul blinded in sudden flashes of heroism. Newspapers are the graveyards of Transition! A sky of jagged clouds; a weeping street transporting ages of sorrow and funeral dramas; a stone filled with inhibitions of life, carved in forgotten words, standing and still standing and always standing, facing eternal relentlessness in its rugged strength.

Closing chapters of the war. A strange silence reigns on those printed sheets; silence broken now and then by demoniac screams of humor, bolstering courage. Tales of gallant warriors, alumni of Davidson. Mighty acts; fear and bravery. Stark grandeur of waiting and hearing and seeing. Patriotism burning cool and steady as the flare of a meteor. Such are the pages of war.

Davidson College grows mightier day by day. From a student body of sixty-six rising to its present state. Looking back over past years to the time when there were only eight buildings on the campus: One tradition goes with the school—its chapel. This building stood on the present site of Shearer Hall. Stewart Hall, once hearing the echoes of classroom recitation and feeling the grind-wrench of many feet upon its stairs, gazed out across the cotton patch, which lent an enticing romance to the landscape, from the spot on which our library now stands. Tammany Hall, relic of past governmental politics, sheltering and guarding the sleeping students, knowing their sorrows, their joys, and their whole life, stood over the foundation of the chemical building, waiting and watching, hoping for the best fate and expecting the worst. Those buildings? Gone and leaving no place in the minds of man. They served their time, served well, uncomplaining of their end: storms,

“And that inverted howl we call the sky,
Whereunder crawling cooped we live and die.
Lift not thy hands to it for help—for it
Rolls impotently on as thou or I,”

Literary publications in the school have suffered similar trials. The first volume published on the campus was entitled the Davidson Monthly, and contained literary publications mingled with news; a life containing the best and the worst of man’s thoughts and actions; possibly a cheerful life; pages filled with deeds bound in leather backs; deeds in sackcloth; cherished moods, living and dying in the narrow confines of a leather back! To its place at once rose the Davidson College Monthly, edited by six literary men selected by the literary societies. Its time, too, was short for it existed barely a year or two, and was laid aside with its older minister. Its fall was followed by fourteen years of silence on the part of the student. What passed in those few years no one knows, nor will ever know. The silent passage of time was again broken in 1886 by someone more ambitious than our average run of men. Under this new regime, the Davidson Monthly was revived and pursued its course, tossing and rolling, gaining new freedom and new light, yet finally dying down into the chaos of darkness, carrying away old thoughts and new, leaving blankness in the mind.

Truth, honor, and justice, Davidson has known them all; from a small courageous beginning to the present miraculous setting we have carried our lighted lamps and stumbled through a drear bleakness to light and liberty.

I wandered far seeking the Truths of Life. In hidden countries where the secret rites of strange religions ruled. And I asked for the Truths of Life. Some told me to seek freedom; some said, be noble. And still I wandered. Through wild places haunted by ghouls of ancient times. And I came to the mystic lands where Buddha had thought and dreamed and died. He surely had found what I sought. They who ruled his palace pointed to honesty; some cried that Faithfulness was the end of my quest. So I came away because I was doubtful. And I sought among the stars. They whispered that they did not know. Wearily wandering, I journeyed on. A star pursued, pleading after me: Today a man died. Yesterday he lived. And as him all others are. Is not this the Truth of Life? The voice of the star faded slowly away. And I wandered on.

YOUNGER GENERATION ON HORSEBACK

“In my six months’ tour of colleges and universities,” writes Vachel Lindsay in the November College Humor, “I noted among the students and young professors a tide that is rising, the Cavalier spirit in a 1929-1939 form.

“Our younglings believe in the divine right of splendor, neither the splendor of kings nor of Babbitts, but the splendor of their own sense of design, the divine right to choose and put on their own pageants, to give Maypole dances and elect their own queen of the May.

“They believe in freedom in choice of religion more than any other one group of citizens of the United States, and a typical committee for a Washington’s Birthday celebration of distinction and even grandeur may be a Catholic, a Christian Scientist, a Jew, a Unitarian, and a kid from Chicago still ballyhooing about Ingersoll watches and Robert G. Ingersoll. But they work in harmony and friendship to the end of achieving this new splendor, which challenges and destroys the Babbitts, who are their own blood fathers.

“And they hate above all the caste system, temporarily created by Babbitt, which puts the businessman above the artist in every field of life. Their form of Americanism would put the born artist above the whole business system of America and keep him there, with his heel on the neck of Babbitt, whatever the blood or stock or race or family history of the artist. If that is a caste system, they have indeed a caste system.

“They are not Cavaliers in the sense in which Cavaliers of old England fought Cromwell and Milton. Quite the contrary. If a Cromwell or Milton should appear, they would follow him and sing with him to the death. They hate the little cowards and will follow the bold and gallant spirits wherever they find them.

“And they are brilliant, dashing, decorative, always on horseback in imagination, and in that sense they are Cavaliers.”

Oy, Oy, Oye!
One oyster met one oyster,
And they were oysters two,
Two oysters met two oysters,
And they were oysters, too.
Four oysters met a pint of milk,
And they were oyster stew.

Upperclassman (to freshman on first appearance in public dance hall): “Oh, so you're a debutante?”
Frosh: “No, Sigma Zeta.”

Hopeless Task — The little girl who looks for uncles in an ant hill.

LOOK OUT BELOW!

You may be able to look out for the falling airplane; but your home or place of business cannot look out for itself. You must do that!—by providing AIRCRAFT PROPERTY DAMAGE INSURANCE to protect it against direct loss or damage by falling aircraft and by tools or other objects dropped therefrom. Annual rate: 5c a $100, with 50% coinsurance. It’s safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY STANDS FOR
Loyalty to Christ and His Word
Scholarship combined with a passion for Evangelism
Responsibility for a World Mission to be served by the trained sons of our Church

B. R. Lacy, Jr., D.D., President

POSSESSES
A loyal, scholarly, evangelical Faculty
A Seminary Spirit enriched by the prayers and services of her sons
A Student body drawn from the South’s and Nation’s consecrated young manhood
Richmond, Virginia.