Page Four | THE DAVIDSONIAN April 11, 1929

“Quips and Cranks” — 3 Is About Complete
Several Important Changes Made in New Yearbook

Although a definite date for the appearance of Davidson’s annual, “Quips and Cranks,” has not yet been appointed, the work
on the book has been progressing rapidly, and it shall probably come out sooner than any annual has here before.
In the yearbook, there are pictures of five hundred men. This, of course, does not include all the students. The
photographers made several trips to the college, but still, some of the students failed to have their pictures taken.

The Senior section has already gone to press. This section consists of sixty pages with the pictures of two men
on each page. A rather unique arrangement was carried out this year in this, the most important section. The trite,
habitual write-ups, which have come to be so usual and meaningless, have been omitted. The pictures of the Seniors are
placed diagonally on the page. To the side of his picture, the man’s name, address, and honors are given. The
football section is ready. All spring sports, however, will necessarily have to be curtailed somewhat, on account of the early
publication. The annual will probably be in the possession of the students before some of the spring sports have come
to a close.

Pictures of the fraternities, both social and honorary, clubs, and other organizations are now in the hands of the engravers.
In the faculty section, there is to be a group picture of the faculty. This feature was omitted last year.
Summarizing, it may be stated that the proof is expected soon; three-fourths of the copy is in, and the rest
will be in this week, and the only matters left are the spring sports and the plates for a few
fraternities.

A College Degree Needn’t Cramp Your Literary Style

“Ex-collegians,” Claude Binyon discovers in the May College Humor, “are sprinkled throughout show business so indiscriminately as to cause someone
with time on his hands to wonder how and why they got there. A study of their academic training reveals
that most of them intended to enter some other profession, if they intended to enter any.

“Tim McCoy went to West Point and then turned into a cowboy actor for pictures. Ed Gorman studied for the
ministry and awoke to find himself a monologist in vaudeville. Paul Whiteman, no less, once studied mining at Boulder. Richard
Ringling, whose dad, John, collected considerable birdseed in the circus game, landed in opera after several years of intensive preparation
as a student of electrical engineering at Montana University.

“Richard Dix rested for some time at the University of Minnesota, not thinking of much in particular, and eventually slid
into pictures where his contract calls for salary even while resting.

“Considerable choice money and fame are being garnered in Hollywood by college graduates wielding the directorial megaphone, or—in the case
of talking pictures—waving a silent finger. On the Warner Brothers lot, five of seven directors who once said ‘yes’ to
profs now have enough yes-men surrounding them to start an anvil chorus. Included are Howard Bretherton, of Stanford, Lloyd Bacon
of Santa Clara, Archie Mayo, of Columbia, Bryan Foy, of De La Salle, and Michael Curtiz all the way from
Budapest U.

DR. FRAZER (Continued from page 1)

Reliance, the third step, was forcefully illustrated in Abraham's life when he was commanded to sacrifice his son, Isaac. Yet
when all human resources were gone, he trusted in God; he rested on God rather than on God's blessings. A
growing yearning for God was declared the fourth step in faith. The feeling that you have given all things to
God and that all really satisfying things must come from Him is the mark of a real believer. The things
of this world gradually lose their power to satisfy as the relation with God deepens. Finally, a spirit of perseverance
is very essential. The ability to keep on in the path of faith regardless of obstacles will at last bring
us into the presence of our father and of those who trod before us in the path of faith.

Large Deputations Visit Nearby Towns

The Davidson College Y. M. C. A. has been very active during the year in regard to deputations and during
the past week several of these deputations have gone to neighboring towns to make talks and to conduct religious exercises.
On last Sunday, a large deputation was sent to Belmont, N. C., where meetings were conducted both in the church
and school. Talks were made at a meeting of the young people of the First Church and of North Belmont
Presbyterian Church. After the young people’s meetings, the Davidson boys conducted church services in the two churches. On Monday morning,
Stewart Meacham addressed the high school. The following men went on this deputation: C. H. Mauzy, Z. V. Long, W.
R. McGavock, Dan Goodykoontz, Warren David, Eugene DuBose, Stewart Meacham, Bert Wilkinson, and Charlie Orr.

On Monday afternoon at 4:30 o'clock, Dick Flinn addressed the Woman's Auxiliary of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church on the
subject: “What a Christian College means to me.” On last Sunday afternoon, Frontis Johnson spoke to the Boys’ department of
the Charlotte Y. M. C. A., a continuation of several other talks which have been made at the Charlotte “Y”
by Davidson students. Several members of the student body went to Cornelius on Tuesday morning where they led the chapel
exercises at the High School. Talks and special music were part of the program. Under the new officers, the college
“Y” hopes to continue the work of the deputations even in a greater degree.

UNION SEMINARY (Continued from page 1)

...on March 24, 1927, at which Doctor Richardson barely escaped with his life, after spending a whole day concealed under
some straw in a cellar, fed by some friendly Chinese. He left under the protection of the United States Government,
but abandoned every possession of himself and family to the looters. Upon his return to the United States, he was
elected to the Chair of Christian Missions of Union Theological Seminary at Richmond. He chose to accept this chair despite
the invitation of the Chinese for him to return to the Seminary at Nanking, as he feels that he is
more needed in this country where missions are on trial. He is just completing his first year in the Seminary
and has won a high place in the estimation and affection of students and professors.

SEVERAL CHANGES IN NEW BULLETIN
Courses Added in Bible, Economics, Education, and English

The Davidson College Bulletin of 1928-1929 is just off the press. Students wishing to secure a copy should see Mr.
Hengeveld. This Bulletin contains, as usual, announcements for the following year, courses offered and required, a list of the student
body, and other general information about the college. There are, however, a few additions to the catalogue. An announcement of
the summer school and also a list of the summer school students are in the new catalogue.

Under the “Courses of Instruction,” several new courses are offered. Bible 6, “Theory of Religious Education,” meeting three times a
week during the first semester under Associate Professor Schenck, credit three hours, is added. Economics 4 (a) offers a study
of “Statistics” under Associate Professor Brown. Some changes are made in the Education department in order to meet the requirements
of the State Board of Education. To the English courses are added English 9 (a) “The English Novel to Hardy,”
(b) “The Contemporary English Novel;” and English 10 (a), “Chaucer and His Age,” (b) “Victorian Literature.” Those not taking R.
O. T. C. must hand in at the end of...Each month, a statement must be submitted confirming that three hours
of physical exercise were taken each week during the month. Alternatively, attendance at calisthenic class three afternoons each week is
required. Outside of these few changes, the catalogue is practically the same as last year.

RACQUET TEAM WINS ON TRIP

The Davidson College net team returned to Davidson this week after a successful five-day trip, during which they won victories
over the racqueteers of Wofford, Erskine, Clemson, and Furman. All of the victories were by 6-0 counts, indicating that the
Davidson netmen had an easy time. The quartet comprising the Wildcat team were John T. Roddey, Jr., of Rock Hill,
S.C., captain; Frontis Johnston, of Greensboro, Ga.; A. L. Halverstadt, of Atlanta, Ga.; and W. L. Poe, of Rock Hill,
S.C. These men have a number of other matches scheduled, but the entire card has not been completed and officially
announced.

Superb Pitching of Ball Defeats Cats

Fifteen hundred people saw the Wildcats lose a fast game to the Tar Heels from Chapel Hill in their annual
Easter Monday game. Jim Ball was the standout from the Carolina camp, pitching a brilliant game backed by fast fielding.
Kugler started the mound duty for the 'Cats and was relieved by Morrow in the seventh frame. The final score
was 4-2 with the Heels on the winning end.

Davidson started the scoring in the first half of the first inning when Marks, Goodson, and Proctor all got singles
and Marks scored. The Tar Heels tied the count in the second inning when Lufty doubled to centerfield and scored
on a long sacrifice fly. Carolina got another run in the third inning when the bases were loaded by a
double, a single, and a base on balls, and a double play attempt by Kugler failed. In the fifth inning,
the 'Cats tied the score when Ratchford was advanced two bases by sacrifices from Marks and Goodson. Carolina scored a
run in the sixth due to a single and a double, and in the seventh due to a single, a
sacrifice, and an error.

Davidson
Ab R H O A
Ratchford, cf 4 1 1 0 0
Marks, 3b 4 0 2 3 2
Goodson, 2b 4 0 1 4 2
Proctor, rf 4 0 1 0 0
Armfield, c 4 0 1 7 1
Crawford, 1b 4 0 0 10 0
Miller, lf 4 0 2 1 0
Littlejohn, ss 3 1 0 0 1
Morrow, p 0 0 0 0 2
Kugler, p 2 0 0 0 1
Totals 31 2 9 24 14

Carolina
Ab R H O A
Cook, cf 4 0 1 0 0
Satterfield, 3b 3 0 0 1 4
Whitehead, ss 4 0 1 3 2
Lufty, lf 4 1 2 1 0
Barnhardt, lf 4 0 3 1 0
Jessup, rf 4 0 0 2 0
Randolph, 2b 4 0 0 3 1
Maus, c 4 1 1 10 0
Ball, p 4 1 1 0 3
Totals 35 4 9 27 15

Davidson 100 010 000
Carolina 011 001 10x

Errors: Crawford 2. Two base hits: Ratchford, Barnhardt, Ball, Lufty. Stolen Base: Barnhardt. Struck out by Kugler 2; by Morrow
1; by Ball 3. Hits off Kugler 7 in 6 innings; off Morrow 2 in 2 innings. Losing pitcher: Kugler.

LENOIR-RHYNE NINE (Continued from page 1)
Miller, lf 5 2 3 1 0
Lentz, 2b 5 2 3 1 0
Winecoff, c 4 0 1 4 3
Boggs, rf 4 0 1 0 0
Rumple, ss 4 0 0 0 3
Denton, 3b 4 0 0 2 2
Higgins, cf 4 1 0 4 0
Womble, p 3 0 1 0 0
Totals 37 4 10 27 16

Davidson 040 500 020—11
Lenoir-Rhyne 011 000 002—4

Errors: Hager 4, Kiser 2, Lemon, Winecoff, Boggs 2. Two base hits: Lentz 2. Three base hits: Hager, Holhouser. Home
runs: Miller 2. Double plays: Goodson to Littlejohn to Crawford. Struck out by Morrow 5; Rumple 2. Hit by pitcher:
Miller, by Rumple. Umpire: Shores, Maryville.

“Y” Cabinet To Be Installed Sunday

Vesper Programs Announced for Remaining Services of Year

At “Y” Vespers on April 14, the annual installation service will take place. This is perhaps the most important meeting
of the year. At this meeting, the old “Y” cabinet will retire and the new cabinet will take its place.
After the formal installation, Dr. Donald W. Richardson of the Union Theological Seminary will talk. Dr. Richardson will be here
to conduct a mission institute. His talk will be an appeal for Christian service and for the young men of
Davidson to stand behind the “Y” in its efforts towards this end. As a former vice-president of the Y.M.C.A. and
as a cabinet member at Davidson, he is well-fitted to address the students at this time. A rich field of
Christian service constitutes Dr. Richardson’s life, and he has gained wonderful experience. His message promises to be one of the
best of the year.

The first public announcement of the new “Y” cabinet will be made at the meeting. Frank Reid Brown, the new
president, is one of the hardest workers that has ever engaged in “Y” work. The cooperation of the cabinet and
student body cannot be stressed too much. On April 21, Dr. Luther Little of Charlotte will speak; Bishop E. E.
Penick will speak to the students on April 28; on May 5 (Mother’s Day), Mrs. Robson will give a talk;
May 12 will be in charge of the Juniors; May 19 will be in charge of the Freshmen; the Sophomores
will conduct a meeting on May 26; and on June 2, the regular commencement service will be held.

At the commencement service, Dr. W. E. Hill, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Richmond, will deliver an address.
Dr. Hill is the father of two seniors at Davidson and is said to be the leading pulpiteer in the
Southern Presbyterian Church.

A Car for Every Family

We have virtually reached the point where there is a car for every family in this country. More cars mean
more accidents. Daily reports of fires, thefts, collisions, and property damage are increasing. This is why Complete Automobile Protection is
necessary today. It’s as essential as tires. Accidents will happen! Telephone, write, or call here for information. It’s safer to
have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Company Insurance Department

THEY’VE A LONG PULL TO EQUAL CAMEL!

All we claim for Camel is this: it packs oodles of mild and mellow aroma, and the fullest measure of
smoking pleasure is the reward of its canny adherents. This and nothing more. And what more would you want? Sift
a cloud of cool Camel fragrance through your senses and you'll hold thenceforth that Camel is right down your boulevard—so
to speak!

© 1929 R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N.C.
