GREAT minds have purposes; others have wishes. —Washington Irving.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

WILDCAT CAGE TILT IN CHARLOTTE SATURDAY

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 10, 1929 No. 14

Captain Elkins Urges Aid For Band Uniforms
$195.50 Has Been Collected From Outside Student Body
YOUNGER ENDORSES WORK
Band Will Not Be Part of R. O. T. C. Unit But Will Be Student Organization

Monday morning at chapel the proposition of buying uniforms for the Davidson College band was placed before the student body
for the first time. “The movement has been going on for several weeks but the student body as a whole
had not been asked to contribute anything to the fund.”

Bob Kell introduced Capt. Elkins, who is in charge of the uniform drive, to the students. Capt. Elkins has already
done quite a large amount of work, having collected $195.50 from outside the student body. He is now asking the
students to contribute $200 toward the fund. He emphasized the fact that the band is not to be the R.
O. T. C. band but the Davidson College band. To buy complete uniforms for the band will cost $900 but
only about half of this amount is to be collected at present. This amount will provide the band with caps,
capes, and trousers.

Coach Younger then gave his approval of the idea of having a uniformed band to parade at athletic contests and
other occasions. He told of attending the Tech-Georgia game last December and how both bands paraded between halves, the Georgia
band being dressed in uniforms of the same color and design as those proposed for the Davidson band. Coach “Monk”
stated that he was well pleased with the appearance of the uniforms.

A meeting between Capt. Elkins and the class presidents was held last Friday night and it was decided that the
president of each class would conduct a drive in their class to collect the amount allotted to them from the
members. The amount will be approximately fifty cents per student. It is possible also that the faculty will be asked
to contribute something.

Most of the students realize the asset it will be to the college to have a uniformed band to parade
on the field between halves of the football games and are heartily in favor of the proposition. If the students
cooperate with their class presidents it is hoped that the full amount may be collected before exams.

STATE SECRETARY VESPER SPEAKER
Mr. J. W. Smith, “Y” Official, Brings Message to Students Sunday

“Straight is the gate and narrow the way that leads to life here as well as hereafter,” declared Mr. J.
Wilson Smith, State Secretary of City Y. M. C. A.’s, at Y Vespers Sunday evening in Shearer Hall. The Scriptural
basis for the message is found in Matthew 7:14: “Strait is the gate and narrow the way, which leadeth unto
life, and few there be that find it.” This, indeed, is the answer of the Master when we are seeking
to live that “abundant life” which He has made possible for all of us.

Certain fundamental facts are present today and are just as true as they were many centuries ago. Significant among these
lasting principles is the truth that the only way to fullness of any phase of life is through the narrow
way of sacrifice. In the realm of physical life, the man who demands liberty and the right to do as
he pleases will never break a track record or gain a healthy body. Babe Ruth’s struggle with his appetites and
his success after an earlier failure affords a striking example of this principle.

In the field of the intellect, the necessity of sacrifice in following a narrow, prescribed course is no less true.
The student who insists on his unhampered freedom in reading and studying will find his mind filled with a chaotic
mass of half-truths and meaningless information. The great artist who is able to sway the feeling of men through his
ability as a musician or a painter likewise owes his success to a faithful following of a narrow path of
daily toil.

The possession of spiritual greatness (Continued from page 3)

Milton to Address Alumni Conference
“Financing the Alumni Program” to be Subject

Ernest Milton, secretary of the Davidson College Alumni association, has been selected as one of the speakers at the regional
conference of the American Alumni Council meeting in Richmond on January 19. His subject will be “Financing the Alumni Program.”

The conference will be under the direction of Richard E. Thigpen, of Duke University, who has been chosen as acting
chairman. Others who will speak on the day’s program will be Miss Florence H. Snow, president of the American Alumni
Council; J. Maryon Saunders, Alumni Secretary of the University of North Carolina; Dr. Edwin A. Alderman, president of the University
of Virginia; Dr. William T. Hodges, of William and Mary College, and others.

Vital problems of alumni work will be given intensive study during the day meeting of the conference. Experts will speak
on each feature and open forum discussion will follow each address. Luncheon will be served at the Hotel Richmond, which
will also be the scene of a formal dinner, at which Dr. Alderman will deliver his address.

Mr. Milton is one of the younger alumni workers of this section, yet he has made exceptional progress in instituting
an active alumni association at Davidson.

Campaign For China Funds Nears Finish

Though interrupted by the sudden wave of influenza which caused the college to close nearly a week early, the campaign
undertaken by the local Y. M. C. A. to raise one thousand dollars for the support or partial support of
Frank Price, the college's missionary in China, has not been in any sense a failure. To date, two-thirds of the
total amount has been raised, and less than two-thirds of the possible contributors have been (Continued on page 3)

Darden Edgerton

Darden Edgerton, freshman of Kenly, N. C., is reported to be improving after his operation for appendicitis Saturday afternoon at
3:00 o'clock. Dr. Monroe, of Charlotte, states that although Edgerton is not yet out of the danger stage his condition
is as well as could be expected. Edgerton is in room 222 Charlotte Sanitorium and would appreciate it if any
of his friends would drop in while in Charlotte.

LOCAL FRATERNITY VOTES TO DISBAND
Sigma Delta Social Ceases Activity as Local Organization

Announcement was made just preceding the recent holidays of the dissolution of the Sigma Delta social fraternity, a local group
which has been in activity here since 1924. Officers in the fraternity gave as the reason for the disorganization, the
“lack of sufficient available material.”

With the removal of this body Davidson now has nine national social organizations, including Delta Theta Chi recently granted Phi
Delta Theta Charter, and one local lodge. Just what disposition will be made with the house formerly used by the
Sigma Deltas has not been announced but several propositions are being considered, the most serious of which is that the
hall be used as a general social center for men having no fraternity connections, with the distinctive requisite that no
local fraternity be developed. Officials of the college on the fraternity and social committee together with students are regarding the
advisable procedure considering this and other suggestions.

The furniture and equipment used by the fraternity remains in the house at present and its disposition will depend largely
upon what may materialize within the student body and their desires in the matter.

Fri. Set As Date Of Phi Beta Kappa Initiation
Dr. Archibald Henderson of U.N.C. Will Deliver the Principal Address

One of the most outstanding events on the calendar of activities at Davidson College will be the annual initiation exercises
of the Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity, which are to be held at Davidson on
Friday night, January 11th, when Dr. Archibald Henderson, of the University of North Carolina, will make the principal address. At
that time a number of the Davidson College students and alumni will be initiated into the local organization.

Dr. Henderson, who is the Kenan professor of mathematics at the University of North Carolina, is a nationally known figure
in the educational world and perhaps can easily claim the distinction of being the best-known writer and lecturer in North
Carolina. His educational preparation was obtained at the University of North Carolina, University of Chicago, Cambridge University, University of Berlin,
and The Sorbonne. He is the author of approximately twenty books, has written many articles for important magazines, has edited
a number of literary periodicals, and is frequently extended invitations to deliver lectures at the leading educational institutions of America.

These ceremonies are generally staged in December before the Christmas holidays, but were purposely postponed this year so that Dr.
Henderson could be present to make the main address. It was impossible for him to fill an engagement last December,
and because the local chapter had unanimously chosen him as a speaker, they readily decided to defer the exercises until
next Friday night.

The private initiation of those who have accepted invitations to align themselves with this organization will be at 7 o'clock,
immediately followed by Dr. Henderson's lecture, which is a public address. Many Phi Beta Kappa men are expected to attend
the exercises, no matter what institution they attended. Officials of the Davidson chapter announce that all Phi Beta Kappa members
have an invitation to the banquet, which is to be served after Dr. Henderson's speech. Prof. K. J. Foreman, secretary
of Davidson, will receive such notification.

Davidson students who have accepted the invitation of the Gamma Chapter are M. T. Gilmour, of Wilmington; J. B. Moriarity,
of Ripley, Tenn.; J. R. Graham, of Hamlet; W. K. Pritchett, of Atlanta, Ga.; W. L. Dumas, of Talladega, Ala.,
and R. R. Kane, of Atlanta, Ga. Davidson alumni notifying their acceptances are Dr. Everad Wilcox, prominent physician of Augusta,
Ga.; Dr. C. F. Arrowood, professor of educational psychology at the University of Texas, Austin, Texas, and E. R. Campbell,
outstanding lawyer of Denver, Colo.

Cham Appears Easter

The next issue of the college magazine, The Chameleon, will probably be ready for the inspection of the student body
shortly before Easter. There will be no radical change in the general make up of this number, the content being
along those lines laid down at the first of the year. In accordance with the usual policy, the color for
the cover will be changed to a light gray. A possible new feature will be an exchange department, a very
important item which has been missing heretofore. It is expected that the Book Review Department will be enlarged, much to
the gratification of all booklovers. This issue will be the last appearance of the magazine for the year 1928-29.

PROFESSORS’ CLUB ORGANIZED AT D.C.
Chapter of American Association of Professors Installed

Recently there was organized at Davidson a chapter of the American Association of University Professors. This association is a national
organization with chaptersat over 250 leading colleges and universities. The chapter here is made up of eight members of the
faculty. These professors held their first meeting before Christmas in which they formed a chapter, elected officers, and delegated Dr.
C. R. Harding as a representative to the fifth annual meeting of the Association, held in New York during the
latter part of December. The members at Davidson are: C. R. Harding, Frazer Hood, T. W. Lingle, J. M. McConnell,
D. R. McGrew, C. M. Richards, G. R. Vowles, G. B. W. Watts. The officers are: Dr. Vowles, president, and
Dr. Lingle, secretary. In order to be eligible for membership in the association one must hold or must have held
for three years the position of a full professorship in an accredited college or university. According to officers of the
chapter, the local organization plans to augment its present membership greatly in the near future. The purpose of the organization
is to secure the full rights and privileges of its members as college professors. It takes care of the questions
of stability of tenure of position, and freedom as a teacher. It also attempts to secure reasonable and justified increases
in the salaries of members. In these ways it is trying to elevate the profession of teaching and to secure
for professors salaries on a par with those made by people in other walks of life. A committee placement is
to be established to take the place of teachers’ bureaus, and to keep tab on vacancies in the profession and
unoccupied teachers who may fill these vacancies.

PI KAPPA ALPHAS CONVENE IN TEXAS
Dr. Arbuckle and Kirkland Attend Meeting

The Phi Kappa Alpha bi-annual convention was held this year at El Paso, Texas from Dec. 31 to Jan. 3.
The local chapter sent as its delegate L. D. Kirkland. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, who has been Grand Chancellor of
the fraternity for a number of years, was presiding officer at the convention. There were about five hundred members of
the fraternity present. This included delegates from all the chapters and alumni clubs. On New Year's day all the delegates
went to Juarez, Mexico, which is just across the line from El Paso. There they attended a bullfight; this proved
to be a new type of amusement for most of the visitors. The convention of this fraternity, which is held
every two years, will be held in 1930 at Memphis, Tenn.

OVER 150 MEN ARE TAKING EXERCISES

It has been announced from the office of the Athletic Director that a trophy will be presented to the man
showing the greatest physical development in the next two months attained from the body-building exercises, conducted in the gymnasium every
afternoon at four-thirty. These exercises are conducted by Captain Norton G. Pritchett, Athletic Director. Final measurements will be made on
February 28th. Much interest is being shown by the students in this activity. Over 150 men are taking the exercises.
Captain Pritchett announces that any man who takes these exercises for two months should increase four inches in muscle development.
The exercises are conducted in conjunction with the general physical development program of the Athletic Association.

T. E. HILL TO HEAD MINISTERIAL BAND
Warren and Norfleet Also Elected Officers

Officers of the Ministerial Band for the spring term were elected and installed Sunday afternoon, Jan. 6. A ruling of
the organization is that the President must come from the Senior class, the vice-president from the Junior class, and the
Secretary-Treasurer from the Sophomore class. By this ruling, T. E. Hill was elected President; A. M. Warren, vice-president; and M.
W. Norfleet, Secretary-Treasurer. The retiring officers are: E. P. Moye, President; F. D. Miller, Vice-President; A. B. McClure, Secretary-Treasurer. All
of the newly-elected officers made short speeches of acceptance, in which each expressed his appreciation for the honor conferred upon
him, the desire for further cooperation, and the favorable prospects for the New Year. The election was to have been
held December 16, 1928, but due to the unexpected close of school this election was necessarily postponed until the first
Sunday after the holidays.

Phi Delta Theta Grants Charter To Local Frat

HARPER CHOSEN AS FOOTBALL CAPTAIN
Close Elected Varsity Manager For Coming Season

At a meeting of the football letter men held just before the Christmas holidays began, Henry Y. Harper, fighting guard
on the 1928 Wildcat Gridiron machine, was elected to captain the team during the 1929 season. At the same meeting,
Thad Brock was elected alternate captain, Edward C. Close was elected varsity manager, and Sloan Y. Cassels was elected freshman
manager. Harper of Oak Hill, Ala., is a member of the senior class, and during the past football season proved
that he could play the line with the best of them. “Piggy” is a hard-driving, consistent player, and his work
during the season which has just closed has evoked much favorable comment. He is a member of Theta Upsilon Omega,
social fraternity. Thad Brock, of Barium Springs, N. C., and a member of the Sophomore class, played a jam-up game
at end for the Wildcats this season, and was placed on the mythical All-State eleven by a large majority of
the sports critics and writers of the state. Besides his heady work at end, Brock did most of the punting
for the Wildcats. Ed Close, who has been elected varsity manager of football for 1929, hails from Chattanooga, Tennessee. He
is a prominent member of the junior class, and is a member of the Pyramid Club. Sloan Cassels, 1929 manager
of the Wildkittens, is from Montgomery, Alabama. He is a member of the junior class, and is a member of
Kappa Sigma, social fraternity.

“Rainbow Revue” is Set for Later Date
Every Date for Holidays Causes Change of Plans

The “Rainbow Revue”, which was to have been presented in Shearer Hall before Christmas holidays as a part of the
entertainment during the Christmas parties, will be given the early part of March. The tickets for the show are still
good and will be honored when the play is given. Owing to the severe epidemic of ‘flu’ and the closing
of school, the revue was put off indefinitely. All parts had been worked up to a point of perfection and
it was with keen disappointment the postponement was made. All songs and choruses were well learned and the show would
have gone on the night after college closed. The program is full of pep. It will be given later on
in the year, to those concerned. The exact time for the presentation of the revue has not been set. It
was announced by Zeb Long, the president of the Junior class, that the date would probably be during the first
part of March, probably before the spring recess. The exact date of the revue will be announced next week. The
tickets that were sold before the holidays will be good at any time the show is given. If anyone prefers
a refund of money, they may have the same by seeing Bill McGuire in room 1 West. The price of
admission for the revue, when given, will be the same.

Delta Theta Chi Only Petitioning Local Accepted
N. C. Gamma Chapter

Roland Parker, Ely, Lanier, and Greene Represent Davidson Local at Conclave

Delta Theta Chi, local social fraternity, was granted a charter by the national fraternity Phi Delta Theta at the thirty-ninth
biennial convention held in Nashville, Tenn., Dec. 26-29 inclusive. The Davidson chapter, to be known as N. C. Gamma, will
be installed sometime in the latter part of February. Delta Theta Chi was officially represented at the conclave by John
L. Ely, Jr., of the Senior class as undergraduate delegate, and Roland B. Parker, class of '26 and now member
of the faculty of Darlington School at Rome, Ga., as alumni delegate. Mr. W. C. Wright of Winston-Salem and alumni
member of the North Carolina Beta chapter at the University officially presented the Davidson petition on the floor of the
convention and was supported by speeches representing the solid South. Charles Lanier and W. P. Greene attended as special delegates
from Delta Theta Chi. Petitions were heard from local fraternities located at Rutgers University, Bucknell University, Mass. Institute of Technology,
University of Tennessee, La. State University, and Davidson College. The Davidson petition alone passed the general convention and Delta Theta
Chi was the only petitioning local that passed the special Committee on Chapters and Charters by a unanimous vote. It
is also of interest to note that this is one of the few colleges that have received charters in the
past forty years, most of the expansion of Phi Delta Theta having been directed toward the larger universities. Delta Theta
Chi was organized in 1921, received faculty recognition January 25, 1922, and began to actively petition Phi Delta Theta in
the fall of 1923. Through a constant endeavor to build a fraternity worthy of the petition being presented to the
national fraternity, Delta Theta Chi grew and prospered. In the fall of 1927, Phi Delta Theta chapters of North Carolina
and Virginia recognized the activities and standing of the petitioning group and gave the petition their approval. This approval by
Delta Province placed Delta Theta Chi in an advantageous position for the general convention. Prior to the convention, literature setting
forth the Piedmont Carolinas, Davidson College, and Delta Theta Chi was mailed to Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. At Nashville, a
display room was outfitted and these same points again placed before Phi Delta Theta. Among the recommendations on display were
those of five governors, and 33 college presidents recommending Davidson College. Recommendations from Davidson fraternities, Davidson faculty, and those of
more than 135 Phi Delta Thetas were displayed to show the standing of Delta Theta Chi. Among the factors contributing
to the good fortune of Delta Theta Chi were the calibre of the local group as well as the unique
excellence of Davidson College as a Liberal Arts college and also the quality of the Davidson Student Body as a
whole. Phi Delta Theta also realized the advantage of placing a chapter in the Piedmont Carolinas, now known as the
growing industrial South, a section of the country. Delta Theta is recognized in the Greek letter world as being one
of the oldest and wealthiest fraternities existing in the fraternity world today. It was founded at Miami University December 26,
1848, and as such is known as a member of the famous “Miami Triad”: Beta Theta Pi and Sigma Chi
completing the triad. There are 96 active chapters, the Davidson chapter to be the 97th, covering the United States from
Washington Alpha at the University of Washington to Maine Alpha at Colby College in Maine. There are also two strong
groups located at McGill University and at the University of Toronto in Canada. Phi Delta Theta owns 86 houses valued
in excess of $3,000,000. Among Southern chapters of the fraternity are those located at the universities of Virginia, North Carolina,
Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, and Texas; also Duke, Tulane, Emory, Vanderbilt, Georgia Tech, Washington and Lee, Sewanee, Auburn, and several
others. Prominent members have included many of (Continued on page 3)
