Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN March 27, 1929

SOU. R. R. SYSTEM PLANS EXCURSIONS
Trips to Washington and Charleston Arranged for Students

A schedule of excursion trains, which is convenient to students, has been arranged by the Southern Railway System. The schedule
consists of two main trips, one to Washington, D. C., and one to Charleston, S. C.

Fare for the round trip to Washington from Davidson and Charlotte is twelve dollars. Train leaves Charlotte, Friday, at twelve
fifty-five a.m., arriving in the Capitol city at eleven forty a.m., the same day. One leaving from Davidson at four
twenty-two p.m., Friday, arrives in Washington at six thirty-five a.m., Saturday. Tickets will be sold going on all regular trains
(except Crescent Limited) Friday, March the 29th. Tickets will be good returning on all regular trains (except Crescent Limited) so
as to reach the original starting point prior to midnight of Wednesday, April the 3rd.

The round trip fare to Charleston from Davidson and Charlotte is seven dollars. This excursion train leaves Charlotte at nine
forty a.m., Friday, arriving in Charleston that afternoon. Excursion rate tickets will be sold for all trains except the Crescent
Limited, Friday and Saturday, March the 29th and 30th, April 5th and 6th. These tickets are to be honored on
all trains except the Crescent Limited, so as to reach the original starting point by Wednesday following the date of
sale. Upon payment of Pullman charge, these tickets will be good in Pullman sleeping and parlor cars. No baggage can
be checked and no stop-overs will be made.

Charleston has come into prominence especially during the last few years on account of the famous Magnolia Gardens. The Middleton
Place Garden likewise displays many flowers and plants, unexcelled in variegated coloring and size. These world-famous gardens comprise many acres
of gorgeously developed azaleas, and camellia japonica in full bloom. Charleston is also noted for its historic points of interest.

Washington, in the way of special Easter occasions, offers the Rainbow in Lincoln Memorial Pool in operation Easter Sunday and
Monday; the Easter egg rolling for the Washington children on the White House grounds Easter Monday, and cherry blossom time
in Potomac Park.

On the campus, or for formal occasions, John Wards have been the authentic footwear for many years. Our styles are
designed especially to meet the college man’s requirements.

John Ward MEN'S SHOES On Display By DEAN RUSK BILL BAILEY 208 Watts DAVIDSON, N. C.

Automobile Afire. Driving along... say you smell smoke... you investigate ... engine afire ... later the remains. However, if you
have fire insurance, the policy remains. Let us quote rates and explain COLLISION! PROPERTY DAMAGE losses. It’s safer to have
insurance and not need it!

Insurance Trust Company Insurance Department

Registration Notice

Registration of all students for next year’s courses will be held in the Registrar’s office the first week after holidays.
Mr. Hengeveld announces that he has already enrolled 100 Freshmen for next year—about two-thirds of the total number expected.

Davidson Wildcats Bow to Catawba
Collect Eight Hits to Catawba’s Four But Scatter Them Out

Filling the date left open by the failure of Oak Ridge to play at Davidson, the Catawba College Indians upset
the dope by nosing out Monk Younger’s Wildcats here Friday, March 22. The score 3-2 indicates the closeness of the
battle and the fact that the game was well played for the season’s opener.

McInnis, Younger’s choice to start the game, was wild as the proverbial March Hare in the initial frame, and his
generosity coupled with Littlejohn’s error and a safe blow by one of the visiting batsmen enabled the Indians to chalk
up three runs as a starter. From this juncture on, McInnis pitched excellent ball, showing some of the form which
earned him a reputation last year as a consistent winner. Later, when Buck Marrow, sophomore star, took up the burden,
he continued the good work and limited the visitors to one bingle in four frames.

The Wildcats tried hard to knot the count, but were not able to bunch their hits on White, elongated southpaw
of the Catawba team. For four frames, the portsider baffled the locals, and it was only through his teammates’ miscues
that the Cats were able to sneak a pair of runs across on White in the fifth canto. With two
men down, and the stage set for the Wildcats to tie the count, Captain Ratchford overran third base and was
tagged out as the ball took a freakish hop into the third sacker’s hands.

Davidson looked woefully weak at the batting side of the argument. Though the Cat swatsmiths were able to gather eight
safe blows to their opponents' four, they lost the contest because they were unable to bunch these hits.

Score by Innings R.H. E.
Davidson 000 020 000 2 8 1
Catawba College 300 000 000 3 4 4

Batteries: White and Kesler, McInnis, Marrow and Armfield.

Hardre to Address Le Cercle Francais
French Life and Customs is Topic of Illustrated Lecture

Dr. G. B. Watts, of the French department announced that Prof. Rene Hardre, native Frenchman and professor of French at
N. C. C. W., has consented to address the Circle Francais here shortly after the holidays. It is remembered that
Prof. Hardre addressed an interested audience here last year, speaking on “Impressions as a student in a French Boarding School,”
the lecture being illustrated with beautiful posters. Although his subject has not been announced it is thought that he will
again speak on some phase of French life and also illustrate his lecture with posters.

Prof. Hardre was recently named “Officier d’Academie,” which is quite an honor for a man of Prof. Hardre’s age. Before
coming to N. C. C. W., Prof. Hardre was a member of the faculty at Middlebury College, Vt.

Athletes may come athletes may go, And fade as in a dream. The horsefly is the best of all, He
is always on the team.

LITERARY SOCIETIES
Eumenean

The Eumenean Literary Society adjourned its regular meeting the night of Tuesday, March 18, in order to enable its members
to hear Senor Motena Lacardo.

Philanthropic

The subject for debate in the Phi Society was Resolved: That Class Insignia Should Be Worn Only After the Completion
of the First Term of the Junior Year. The affirmative team composed of E. E. Clark and S. W. DuBose,
received the verdict over negative, supported by A. G. Randolph and Cecil Lawrence. A declamation was given by Lon Carr
after which the Society adjourned for a feed.

VIEWS AND OBSERVATIONS

Educational contribution should be greater, and it should become known and placed in the same category as Princeton. One of
the most outstanding church leaders believed that scientific development should be fostered and abetted by church schools, and that such
a solution of the present status of some institutions who were being overwhelmed by new thought could be eliminated if
the church schools would act as a stabilizer by accepting scientific ideas. The spiritual side of the church school, it
was contended, acted as a balance for the new thought. “Emphasize learning,” he said, “and you will have a combination
of the spiritual and educational at Davidson.”

“What percentage of the student body at Davidson is entertaining the educational world for the sake of education itself?” was
another question asked. No statistics are available, but an examination of the hundreds of students who are now attending institutions
of higher learning reveals only a few men who plan to devote their lifetime to the promulgation of education, or
to do research in the scientific and educational fields. It seemed to be a universal feeling in this meeting that
Davidson should inspire her students to pursue such courses.

Gratification was expressed over the recent actionof the board of trustees, accepting Dr. Martin’s recommendation for an endowment of the
library. Its limited number of volumes at the present time prevents any elaborate parallel study, and when Davidson students see
the libraries of Columbia, Harvard, and Johns Hopkins, they realize how handicapped they were at Davidson. “It has been a
pitiful condition,” was the way one alumnus expressed it. After an invitation extended to the alumni at one meeting to
return for commencement, one man said that he had been prevented each year because the Davidson commencement was so early.
Many others expressed regret that they could not return, for their sessions ended about the time the Davidson commencement period
was ending. It was suggested that the college open the third Wednesday in September, instead of the second. It is
believed that between fifty and one hundred men who could not otherwise be here would return. It’s important, too, to
get the alumni back to the campus as often as possible.

Alumni in most of the cities were interested in the Davidson football team which plays the Army on October 12th,
and there seems to be no question but that the Wildcats will have many loyal supporters at West Point next
fall. Capt. Weems, former head of the R.O.T.C. department, attended the New York meeting, and extended an invitation to the
alumni there. It was relayed to others by the secretary at Capt. Weems’ solicitation. Arrangements are being made for excellent
seats for all Davidson alumni.

Davidson Theatre
Monday and Tuesday
“The Sins of the Fathers” with MILTON SILLS
Wednesday
“Bridge of San Luis Rey”
Thursday
“The Rescue” with RONALD COLMAN
Friday
“The Wolf Song” with GARY COOPER and NANCY CARROLL
Saturday
“Tide of Empire” with RENEE ADOREE

Admiring Father Drops Line to His Dear Son

My Dear Son:
Your scholastic standings for the initial semester of your first year at college are at hand. Despite five years of
like records during your high school period, they afford me no small thrill. I take this opportunity to extend congratulations,
for your ability to remain in college is nothing short of an art. In some ways, my boy, you are
a genius. The masterly manner in which you expend but the minimum of physical and mental energy in any field
you undertake marks you efficient to a decided degree. And should you ever—from indications this might come to pass—come bounding
home quite unexpectedly, I assure you that you will find ample chance to express your efficient tendencies in and about
the barns of the farm that I own some miles west of this city.

You, no doubt, felt it unnecessary to write home and explain how you attained the marks you did, and in
this you are quite correct. They demand no explanation, speaking quite plainly for themselves. Of course, I realize that standings
are merely the alphabetical playthings of biased professors and are in no way indicators of real knowledge gained. I also
remember, from long talks you gave on the subject while attending high school, that knowledge and learning come from lectures
and through textbooks. The “C plus” you earned in physical education was remarkable and deserves praise. Having once attended college
myself, I know that you must have spent many diligent hours with your books in that course.

Your letters have been very irregular and for that reason, your mother and I have not heard from you since
you were home mornings during the Christmas recess. Your mother fears that you may be in a state of ill
health from too conscientious study. I have assured her, however, that you are in fine mettle. Your checks, which are
in no way irregular, come in daily signed in a firm, healthy hand and it is through them that I
am always in contact with your physical welfare and numerous outside activities. Offhand, I would venture that you hold some
sort of amateur record for check writing, for a space of the last four and a half months, an achievement
of which I am constantly reminded by calls from the cashier of the First National Bank. This is an age
when everyone must have some record or another, and at times I half wish that you had chosen to distinguish
yourself in another way.

Oh, yes, I almost forgot to mention a letter from the dean of your college that came along the same
day as your marks. Because of the wide scope of your extracurricular activities and also because of the quality of
your academic work, you have caused that gentleman to sit up and take notice. He has acquired such an interest
in you that he had to write. He told me a great deal about you in very definite language; strangely,
he differed with you as to the real value of grades. Deans, however, are apt to differ, otherwise, they would
not be deans. So many of their beliefs are hypothetical, although in all fairness I must admit that your dean’s
theories on the success of your future in college could hardly be classed as such.

Should the faculty of your institution fail to uphold my faith in you and act unfavorably toward your petition on
arriving home, you will find a pair of overalls in your room and a Ford out in front waiting to
take you at once out to the farm. I might add that work along agricultural lines is a bit difficult
at present, due to a dearth of hired hands and a hard winter. I would suggest that college life is
at all times a little more pleasant than rural existence, and that you should always keep this in mind if
your impending reunion with the home folks falls through.

By the way, you no longer have an account at the First National, the same having died the proverbial nine
deaths of an alley cat, and I thought it best to let it remain dead and thus put a stop
to the massacre. Hereafter on Monday of each week, a check will show up large enough to keep you in
books, society fees, food, clothing, and an occasional evening with one of the host of your feminine admirers. It would
hardly be sufficient, however, to let you continue with your policy of buying your college in small installments. Should you
take time from your studies to write, our address is still the same.

—Your Admiring Father.
(From the Maintor Messenger.)

ENGINEERING SUBJECT

The engineer learns through experience the physical amount of endurance of the human machine. The trouble with many executives lies
in the fact that they overtax their manpower or their department over which they are leader. On the other hand,
a former engineer would study the strength of his department and then use it to the best advantage without overtaxation.
It is well for one to study Engineering even if he has no intention of entering that line of work.

Bride: “What will I get if I cook a dinner like this for you every day this year?”
Hubby: “My life insurance.”
—Yellow Jacket.

BRICKS
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM
DE LUXE ICE CREAM at STUDENT STORE
CONES CUPS
MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM CO.

THIS IS THE WHY AND HOW OF IT

THERE’S a part of you somewhere between your Adam’s apple and your ankles concerned with smoke-judgment. And you can’t fox
that smoke-sense—if it really knows its cigarettes! Here’s the test: Light a Camel—and pull in a cloud of cool fragrance.
The deep approval inside is witnessed by “that certain feeling.” Try and match it! We'll bet a hand-painted lemonade shaker
you can’t do it.
“©1928 R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.
