THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1929

HOME-COMING Declared to be Successful One Despite Disagreeable Weather Many Former Students Participated in Festivities of the Day

Elsewhere in this issue of The Davidsonian are accounts of the individual events of Home-Coming Day last Saturday, which give the readers of this publication full details of the celebration. This article is simply a brief resume of the festivities and expresses the opinion of alumni officials.

Although the activities of the annual Home-Coming Day exercises were hampered by inclement weather, this has in no wise lessened the attendance or diminished the pleasures of returning alumni. The morning exercises in Chambers building were far better attended than any Home-Coming event heretofore; the drill of the R.O.T.C. battalion was the best of the season, even though the formation was executed in the rain; more alumni attended the luncheon than ever before; the stunt night performance was above par; and the football game was amazingly attended and one of the best exhibitions of grit and pluck ever seen on Richardson Field.

Registration in the alumni office was lower than at any time since the office was established at Davidson in 1926, but this is explainable because the visitors went to one spot and generally remained there because of the rain. No one seems to question the increased number of alumni who were on the campus, and they came to Davidson from distant points throughout the southland.

As announced to the student body, the Home-Coming celebration at Davidson is fast becoming a main-word instead of a by-word. Numerous alumni return to Davidson for the expressed purpose of meeting their friends. This is true of those in the earlier classes, who were students here at a time when football was not played and who are unfamiliar with the workings of this great pastime.

Commencement of 1930 will occupy the attention of the alumni office during the next few months, but tentative plans are already being made for the Home-Coming of 1930. A possible date is being discussed, and the events for the occasion are receiving consideration even at this early date.

Engagements

Hodges-Monk
Announcement was made in the Atlanta (Ga.) papers Sunday about the engagement of Miss Elizabeth Hodges, of Decatur, Ga., to Rev. Chester Franklin Monk, of Long Beach, Miss., the marriage to take place on December 23rd. Mr. Monk is in the class of 1926.

Crawford-Wilkinson
The engagement of Miss Ruth Crawford to Robert Alton Wilkinson, both of Mebane, was announced last Sunday. The wedding will take place on December 28th. Mr. Wilkinson is a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1926.

Parson-Corning
Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Parsons, of Rockingham, announce the engagement of their daughter, Anna Scales, to Robert Crump Corning, of Hamlet, the marriage to be celebrated in December. Mr. Corning is in the class of 1929.

Louise: “Can you beat it? The stage manager offered me ten dollars for a kiss yesterday.”
Betty: “Did you slap his face?”
Louise: “Yes, and he came through with twenty.”

Alumni Write in About Recent Radio Program
Letter Received in the Alumni Office from Men in New York, Mississippi and Alabama

Davidson alumni, over a wide territory, heard the radio...ea Ide, beh phd Sta- mediately seemed to recognize the voice tion WBT in Charlotte last Thursday night as a preliminary to Home-Coming Day, and several of them have expressed their appreciation. Two wires were received by Prof. Archibald Currie following the broadcast. What a thrill it was to hear ‘O Davidson’ sung by Davidsonians again!” 

Excerpts from letters received in the alumni office follow:

From Mr. Hugh L. Shelby, ’27, at Alabama Military Institute, Anniston, Ala., came this: “That orchestra and glee club caused me to miss my supper tonight, but I must say it was worth it to hear Prof. Currie’s voice again and to sit with the orchestra and glee club once more. The program was great and I don’t begrudge my supper in the least. Many others at Davidson for Home-Coming Day expressed like sentiments.”

Rev. Chester F. Monk, ’26, from Long Beach, Miss., said that “Program over WBT came in clearly and distinctly tonight. Was trying to locate WBT on a friend’s set and heard Prof. Currie say ‘auditorium’ as I moved the dial. I immediately seemed to recognize the voice and hesitated long enough to increase the volume and take it all in. I appreciated the program and felt as if I was once more in touch with the school. The orchestra and glee club sounded good.”

Mr. J. E. Faw, ’15, wrote from his home at 122 Archbold Place, Westfield, N. J., to the Davidson Orchestra and Glee Club, saying that “as a former member of the orchestra and glee club it was with especial interest that I listened to your very excellent program last night. The strains of ‘O Davidson’ brought a real thrill, and my only regret was that there could not have been more of it. Please accept my heartiest congratulations and best wishes for further success.”

Alumni Marriages

Miller-Thompson
Hugh Parks Miller, of Fort Worth, Texas, and Miss Abby Thompson, of Louisville, Ky., announce their marriage in Oklahoma City, Okla., on November 2nd. Mr. Miller attended Davidson in the class of 1914. He was in Louisville for thirteen years until he moved to Fort Worth in July. He is connected with the United States Tire Company in that city.

Moffet-McLean
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. McLean, of Raeford, announce the marriage of their daughter, Mary Elizabeth, to Alfred Nesbit Moffet, of Taylorsville, on Tuesday, November 5th. Mr. Moffet is a graduate in the class of 1925, attended Louisville Theological Seminary until last January when he was forced to withdraw because of a serious operation. He is now located in Taylorsville, where he holds a pastorate.

In a cigarette it’s “HIT THE NAIL on the head”... Cut out the frills, give smokers the one thing they want—and sales will take care of themselves. At least, that’s the Chesterfield platform. The one thing smokers want is good taste—and that’s the one thing we’re interested in giving them— “TASTE above everything.”

© 1929, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Ukelele Ike: “Can you talk German, Charlie?”
Charlie: “Sure.”
Ike: “Gwan, let’s hear you.”
Charlie: “O. K. I’d like a drink, but I dunnerwetter get it.”

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Chesterfield
FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED
MILD... and yet THEY SATISFY