THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1929

NOUVELLE AVANT-HIER

Boost Davidson

R.E.W.

People who write must always have an excuse for doing so; therefore, I suppose that it would be wise at the outset for me to offer up some sacrifice to the Pagan Gods of Criticism—May they be ever merciful. I begin this task of explanation with the greatest wariness for it concerns a timeworn and weary word called, “Tradition.” When that one word is mentioned a few of the less sophisticated of the world will tilt their noses slightly upward to gain a freer breath of air, but even so, the word must go on.

Thus it becomes our task to aid the college students in becoming better acquainted with college history. The matter contained on this sheet will probably remind most of you of the Richardson novels in an earlier period. The pages of those books were filled with sentiment, old-maidish in its trend and purposeless of intent. Richardson took tea and toast with his various old friends and spoke long over the shape of feet and the length of skirts, making many a risqué pun to delight the dear old souls’ hearts. This column will not be written over tea and toast but over a very studious-looking volume of bound newspapers; however, it may sometimes run over with pithless sentiment. I will promise one thing though, and that is to spare you from any dangerous puns.

Down to the golf course for a little walk and am reminded of long ago: The course was a bathtub for ducks and a drinking cup for cows until 1914 when our eminent Professor of Chemistry began a move which ended in the draining of a good many acres of ground, so that now amid the browsing herds our amiable student strives to drive his ball around the hills and over the stream. In the early days one Archie Reeves made the course with a score of thirty-one, which was excellent, for golf clubs were shorter in that age.

Over to visit the dormitories, where I again fall victim to memory’s tales. There was a time when the campus possessed only three dormitories, each having four rooms and harboring sixteen students. The remainder of the sixty-five were hidden under that “bushel” called Stewart Hall, where they ate, had Sunday Services, morning and evening prayer, and where the trustees deigned to meet once a year. This building was leveled in 1909 to make room for others. So, in the words of Addison, “Time will change the best of us.” It has been said that man must either progress or retrograde; that it is impossible to stand still. And looking about the campus methinks that there has been nothing but progression since 1839 when Maxwell Chambers laid and dedicated the cornerstone to old Chambers.

And now home to write these meditations and give them to you. So we will leave you with this thought: “Just remember, men, that it doesn’t cost a thing to utter a friendly greeting. And two or three kind words will alter the whole outlook on life and humanity. There will be many homesick faces and gulping Adam’s Apples around the campus in the next weeks, so try and change those glum eyes into smiling ones. Get the ‘Y’ habit.” So to bed amid cries of “Zounds” and other medieval expressions of wrath.

Sport Writers Laud Fight of Wildcats

Following are some extracts from the Sport columns of South Carolina newspapers as they discuss the Davidson-Clemson game of last week:

Davidson held her own against the strong Clemson eleven in Charlotte for three quarters, but it is the same old tale followers of the Wildcats are forced to tell—lack of reserves. The Cats played the Tigers on even terms for over half the game and it was only through the air that they beat the Younger-Tilson machine. The Clemson backs were unable to do anything with the Tilson-coached line and all honor to the light sophomore Davidson forwards who held the thundering herd from Clemson. Mathis and Brown, guard and end on the Davidson team, never played football until they came to Davidson last year. Both are sophomores; that is a sample of how Monk Younger and Tex Tilson can develop them. Give them some material and some weight and they would turn out a team.

It was another case of too much beef and brawn in the Davidson-Clemson battle in Charlotte. The Presbyterians did their durndest, but they were overpowered by sheer weight and more reserves as Carl Weimer, sports editor of the Greenville News, who was present, says: “Davidson fought hard but the power of Clemson, the passing of Goat MacMillan, the prowling of Johnny Justice, the hard hitting of Harvin and Bob McCarley and superb play by Foggy Woodruff and Bob Jones asserted itself. It was pressure applied with unvarying consistency. It was the case of the smaller foe being forced to yield to the stronger one, having reserve as well as ability and one that unloosed an overhead attack that completely dazed their opponents except in one period.”

However, the names of two or three Wildcats will stand out. They deserve to go down in the Davidson hall of fame for the game they put up against such odds. They are Brock, McCall, Parrish, Mason, Mathis, and Fraley. The same writer quoted above heaps this word of praise on the Wildcats: “While the Cats did not make as many first downs they gained much yardage, most of it through Clemson’s line. Clemson supporters frankly were surprised with the frequency with which this wall was penetrated by the light Presbyterian backs, McCall, Brohard, Parrish, and King excelled. They hit hard and went far at times. The heat seemed to have Clemson slowed up.”

“The work of the Davidson forwards against their heavier opponents was remarkable. Mathis, DeCamp, Covington and Mason were splendid and should have a special banquet given them at Davidson for their withstanding of the assault made by the Tigers. They were punished and punished severely but they withstood it nobly.”

“Brock at end deserves mention in a special paragraph. This little end, captain of the team, is an inspiring leader. He put up one of the best games at end seen in many a day. He was in the thick of every play. Did the punting, kicked the extra points and all in all was as great a star as the contest brought out. He is simply a wonder.”

“McCall and King ran punts back well, too. Davidson should feel mighty proud of its showing today for it was a team that turned what many thought would be a one-sided game into a sensational exhibition.”

TO ATTEND CLASS OR NOT?

One of the latest “gasps” in college reform is optional class attendance. Over a dozen universities and colleges have granted this privilege to their students during the past winter, but with this new freedom has come additional worry. The professors in the various institutions have tightened down on their requirements and have gone to the extreme of giving an extra exam to all Seniors who have over one cut.

WILDCATS MEET WOFFORD

(Continued from page 1)

Brown: RB
Carroll McCall: OB
Kennedy Parrish: Bl
Willis Brohard: RG
Adams Braley: RB
Jackson

Wofford defeated High Point 18 to 6, Saturday. During the fourteen years of play between the two schools Wofford has scored only 21 points to Davidson’s 393. The following summary of the games of the two schools may be of interest to the students.

Year Wofford Davidson
1920 6 81
1921 0 45
1922 0 34
1923 0 62
1924 0 87
1925 0 34
1926 0 7
1927 0 7
1928 6 24
1929 2 12
1930 7 0
Total 21 393

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Eumanean

Last Tuesday night the Eumanean Literary Society met for the second time this year. Many of the members were absent, so the program was rather short. An interesting debate was held, however, the query being, “Resolved, that the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution should be enforced.”

During the meeting, plans were discussed for making the programs more interesting. It was resolved to have more outside speakers in the future. It was also decided to adopt the old system of debating whereby one man challenges any member to contend against him on a given query. The society set as its goal for new members twelve freshmen.

Everyone is cordially invited to attend these meetings. It would probably be of interest to the new men of the campus to know that Woodrow Wilson was once a member of this society when he attended Davidson College.

MANY DAVIDSON MEN ARE PROMINENT AT SEMINARY

Davidson continues her record of supplying more ministers to the Presbyterian Church than...Any other college, with twelve members of the present senior class of Union Theological Seminary claiming that North Carolina institution as their Alma Mater. Those men in the Class of 1929 who are enrolled are: Robert Kirkpatrick, Robert Stoop, John Ricks, Roy Whitley, Thomas Hill, William Hill, Aubrey Brown, A. R. Koop, DeWitt Help, and Frank Hall. Floyd Jones and Frank Blue, graduates in previous classes, have also entered the Junior Class. Grier Davis, Class of '28, has transferred from Princeton Seminary and entered the Middle Class. The Rev. Dunbar Ogden has returned to the Seminary as one of the Hoge Fellows. Leighton McCutchan and W. M. Christian, prominent Davidson athletes, are ranking members of the tennis team. Julian Lake, Number 6, is captain. Play on a ladder tournament is now in progress on the splendid new courts which are being used for the first time this fall. Other Davidson men are shining lights on the football, basketball, and volleyball teams.

FRATS CONCLUDE SEASON
(Continued from page 1)
ville; Q. M. Harless, Christiansburg, Va.; R. B. Sugg, Greenville, S. C.
Pi Kappa Alpha—J. R. Howard, Atlanta, Ga.; R. L. R. Mauzy, Harrisonburg, Va.; Ansley Watson, Anderson, S. C.; I. E. Dickinson, Harrisonburg, Va.; A. L. Mills, J. M. Waggoner, and F. T. Slane all of Statesville; A. B. Kuhn, Davidson; T. H. Henly, Laurinburg; W. R. Morrow, Jr., High Point; V. C. Shutzy, Decatur, Ga.; E. B. Peabody, Charlotte; Joseph Dunlinson, Jr., Danville, Va.; G. S. Sherrod, Greensboro; A. F. Gregory and R. K. Gregory, Lake City, Fla.; G. E. Bailey, Hickory; G. A. Little and C. H. Little, Jr., Charlotte; R. H. Daniel, Charlottesville, Va.; W. F. Mullis, Martinsburg, W. Va.
Pi Kappa Phi—R. H. Alderman, Alcolu, S. C.; J. E. Boyd, Charlotte; E. A. Morgan, Marion; C. S. Faucette, Chattanooga, Tenn.; H. K. McDonald, Greenville, S. C.; M. R. Pope, Talladega, Ala.; G. H. Ross, Wadesboro; D. E. Hunt, Oxford; W. B. Hayes, Fremont.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon—C. F. Myers, Jr., Greensboro; W. A. Lyon, Davidson; J. B. Clarke, Jr., Fayetteville; B. C. Parks, Johnson City, Tenn.; W. A. Bedell, San Antonio, Texas; Arthur Ross, Jr., Asheboro; E. B. Cannon, Roanoke Rapids; A. G. Little, Jr., Valdosta, Ga.; T. A. Bowles, Decatur, Ala.; A. M. Manson, Jacksonville, Fla.
Theta Upsilon Omega—G. C. Neal, Ruffin; J. A. Smith, Mixburg, Ala.; J. A. Smith, Fort Valley, Ga.; A. J. Ellington, Madison.
Alpha Omega—A. H. Grant, Mebane; L. M. Vickery, North Wilkesboro; H. A. Alligood, Fayetteville.
Pyramid Club—C. E. Bettis, Morristown, Tenn.; D. R. Mower, Staunton, Va.; J. M. Hudson, Charleston, W. Va.; Avery Patton, Jr., Greenville, S. C.; C. B. Moseley, Staunton, Va.; C. M. Howard, Raeford.
Upperclassmen accepting bids and the fraternities they are pledged to are: J. L. Hall, Burlington, Beta Theta Pi; E. H. McCall, Salisbury, Phi Gamma Delta; H. W. Tinsley, Chester, S. C., and F. E. Chamness, Pi Kappa Phi, and V. M. Bell, Cairo, Ga., Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

The Phi Literary Society met in its regular weekly meeting Tuesday, September 24. After the meeting was called to order by R. T. Ellet, the president, a short devotional service was led by J. W. McCutcheon. The feature of the evening was a talk on the value of membership in a literary society to the student. Mr. Jackson added a few remarks on the history of some of the furnishings of the hall that would be of interest to everyone on the hill. After a short business session, the meeting was adjourned and everyone participated in a feed given in honor of the new men. The Phi Society is pointing for a banner year and all freshmen and upperclassmen who have talent or hope to develop talent in this line are urged to join for the development of themselves and the improvement of the society.

NOTED VISITOR TO CAMPUS
Dr. Virginia Hudson, of the English Department in the State Teachers’ College at East Raeford, Virginia, and a lineal descendant of Gen. William Lee Davidson, for whom the college was named, spent last Saturday on campus. She was accompanied by Prof. Florence B. Ogg, of the same institution.

DEPUTATION GOES TO MOORESVILLE
The Second Presbyterian Church of Mooresville has used the “Y” deputation system for all services held there during the past week. At the Prayer Meeting service on September 25, Jack McKinnon used as his subject “Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed.” The morning service on Sunday, September 29 was conducted by Frank Brown, who used as his theme verse “And who knoweth whether thou art come to this kingdom for such a time as this.” Esther 4:14. Brown stressed the fact that we are all here for a purpose, some of us serving our purpose unconsciously. Fred Poag held the evening service using “The three phases of a Christian Life” as his subject. Poag brought out that a Christian first “sees,” then “tells” and then “lifts” himself to a Christian Standard. His key-verse was John 12:22. Again, at the mid-week service on October 2, W. J. Beavers gave a talk on “What it means to be a Christian.”

YALE SENIORS SHOW PREFERENCE
Recently the Senior Class at Yale voted their preference for different things which they enjoyed as a whole. The following selections were made: English was judged the most valuable subject, psychology the least valuable; “If” the favorite poem; Tennyson the best liked poet; Napoleon the favorite historical character; Emil Jannings the most popular movie star, and the Saturday Evening Post the widest read magazine.

Mrs.: “There's an account in the paper of a man who lives on onions alone.”
Mr.: “Well, any man who lives on onions ought to live alone.”—Ex.

Glee Club Try Out Draws Good Crowd
The Glee Club of Davidson College, which has always played a prominent part in the activities of the college, shows unusual prospects for the sessions of 1929-30 according to a report from Prof. E. J. Cullum, the director. More than seventy men presented themselves at the first trials held today in Shearer Hall. About thirty of these men will be selected for the chorus besides those members of the Jazz Orchestra and the Concert Orchestra. Approximately eighteen of last year’s men will be back. Among these are C. C. Orr, president; J. H. Ramseur and J. A. Cannon, vice-presidents; and R. W. McDermid, business manager, will form the nucleus about which Professor Cullum will build the club of '30. The club will make its first official showing here at Davidson on Homecoming Day, November 16. Several trips are in prospect, the most important of which is, perhaps, to the district contest of the Southern Glee Club Association. This contest, which will be held at Richmond, Va., will perhaps offer some of the best of the Glee Clubs of the South. Concerts will also be presented at Winston-Salem, Greensboro, and probably Reidsville, besides other towns in the state with whom definite arrangements have not yet been made.

Young Teachers Wanted For Work in Near East
Interesting Opening for Young College Graduates
The American colleges and universities in Cairo, Assiut, Beyrouth, Smyrna, Constantinople, Athens, and Sofia, every year secure a dozen or more graduates of various American colleges of this country to teach for a period of three years, with the privilege of continuing longer if acceptable. Teaching is done through the English language. The salary seems to be sufficient to make it possible to secure plenty of applicants. The work is in one of the most interesting parts of the world. Men qualified to teach English and the Sciences are wanted in larger numbers than for teaching in other departments. Definite information will reach us by December 1, as to the exact needs of each institution for the session beginning in September, 1930. Already we know that the American University in Beyrouth wants four young men to teach English alone. We have reason to believe that this year, Davidson men well qualified will receive very special consideration as applicants for some of the positions. Any Seniors or recent graduates of Davidson who may be interested are directed to confer or communicate with Prof. Thos. W. Lingle as promptly as possible. In view of the care with which men for these positions are selected, we would not encourage any man to apply, who does not rank scholastically among the upper twenty percent of his class.

Farmer: “Why did it take you so long to put the bridle on that horse?”
Farm hand (from the city): “I had to wait until he yawned to get the bit in his mouth.”

Then there’s the one about the Scotchman who died and left a million dollars to the mother of the Unknown Soldier.

“VOILA!”
A stiff exam, a round o’ gym,
Demand your vigor, verve and vim;
Ambitious studes must keep in trim:
Eat LANCE’S foods—get in the swim:
“Excel, sir!”

STATIONERY
FOUNTAIN PENS
SUNDRIES
Victor, Brunswick and Columbia Records every week
W. S. HENDERSON
CANDIES
SMOKES
SODA