2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17, 1929

Lingle Presents Study On Near East to I.R.C.

Language Professor Relates Experiences of Visit to Arabian Countries

On the night of October 12, the Davidson International Relations Club heard an address by Dr. T. W. Lingle concerning
his trip abroad this summer, on which he made a study of Arabic-speaking countries. Since Dr. Lingle is most well-informed
on the habits and general characteristics of these countries, his address was both interesting and instructive.

Dr. Lingle averred that among the Arabic-speaking Mohammedans of the Near East, dissension is most imminent, seeming to arise at
the slightest provocation. “The Arabs,” he went on, “are the descendants of the Semitic peoples of old, who were known
for their nomadic traits and fierceness. The territory in Africa from the Atlantic coast south 1000 miles and east 2000
miles to the Red Sea is occupied by Arabic peoples. As far south as Zanzibar and as far north as
Western Asia, we find Arabic descendants. The territory around the Tigris and Euphrates is also occupied by Mohammedans. Arabs have
settled even in the western part of China; however, Java is the most thickly populated by them.

“The Arabs are the main representatives of the Mohammedan religion. The Mohammedan Bible, which is called the Koran, cannot be
translated into any language besides the Arabic, in which it is now written.

“It would naturally follow that such a fierce people would be a law unto themselves, but this is not the
case. The Mohammedans are entirely under the jurisdiction, or mandate, of nations foreign to them. The British have come into
possession of many of the Arabic tribes. Some of the Mohammedans are governed by the French, while the Turks have
maintained rule over many of them. The Arabs would like very much to cast off their foreign yoke, although they
seem to derive a certain contentment under European rule. Only one main attempt have they made to free themselves, and
its failure has been remembered. Independence would indeed be disastrous, because ninety-five percent of them are not much above the
brute in education. Only a few of the five percent are at all well educated. The small group constituting the
mental power use the masses as slaves, practically, and seem to have no respect for them.

“In Palestine, a movement is underway encouraging the Jews of America and other countries to come back to their former
home, but it is feared that if such a return should take place, the non-Jews of Palestine would be used
wrongly. Besides, the rich Jews would more than likely not wish to come back, and only the ne’er-do-wells would be
interested. The ethnology of the Holy Land would be changed in all probability, as the Jews, who would have some
education, would crowd out the Mohammedans.

“Generally speaking, the Arabic-speaking peoples are backward, uneducated, and non-progressive. However, in Turkey, the Mohammedans are taking some forward steps,
and are becoming more like their Western contemporaries.”

In conclusion, Dr. Lingle said, “Peace will probably always prevail to a great extent in these countries, as the Arabs
are neither sufficiently well educated, nor strong enough, to maintain independence, even if it were granted them.”

Scabbard and Blade Indorses Local Unit

Discussion of the action taken by the Synod of North Carolina in instructing the Board of Trustees of Davidson College
to consider the discontinuance of the R.O.T.C. course was the feature of the semi-monthly meeting of the Scabbard and Blade,
national honorary military fraternity, last Wednesday night in their new club room in Oak Row. The members expressed the opinion
that the military training offered at Davidson was one of the most practical of all of the required courses. It
was pointed out that the R.O.T.C. work, probably more than anything else on the campus, develops leadership, initiative, and self-confidence.
According to Cadet-Major Bill Hill, captain of the organization, the chapter was unanimously in favor of maintaining the local military
course, and believed that its removal would be detrimental to the institution.

Plans for a better battalion for the year were also made, with many suggestions that are expected to be very
helpful in polishing up the drills and interesting the freshmen in the work.

Men Welcome Team At Station Monday

Approximately Two Hundred and Fifty Men Are Present

Following an urgent appeal in chapel by Hugh McAllister, assistant cheer leader, a large portion of the student body was
present at the station to greet the “West Point Special.” Led by McClenaghan and McAllister, the student body cheered as
it has never cheered a leading team before. When the train pulled in at 11:26 a.m., the special car was
surrounded by members of the student body, who were eager to pull, push, or carry the valiant Wildcats. It would
be unjust to say that one man received more attention than another. They were all deemed heroes. Rapid questions were
fired about the game, impressions of Army and Cagle, and what the city was like. Never before has a Davidson
team been welcomed home with more enthusiasm and praise. Student cheer leaders are to be congratulated on the “peppy” spirit
which has developed on the campus for the gridiron season.

Goes To Cornelius

The Christian Endeavor Training Class sent out their first deputation of the college year to the First Presbyterian Church of
Cornelius last Sunday night. C. K. Kraemer presided at the meeting and a very interesting program, with special music, was
rendered. Interesting talks were made by V. A. Milton, B. M. Drake, and J. G. Knox. A violin solo given
by R. B. Orr added much to the program. It is hoped that more college men will take part in
the useful work which is being carried on by the training class. All deputations for the year have not been
scheduled as yet. The officers of the year are V. A. Milton, President; and C. K. Kraemer, Secretary and Treasurer.
No vice-president has been elected.To fill one vacancy.

Chapel Devoted To Explanation Of Seal

Dr. G. R. Vowles, professor of German Language at Davidson, gave a very profitable and instructive talk to the student
body during the Chapel exercises Wednesday morning, October 9. He based his talk upon the Latin motto of the college,
which reads: “Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas,” which means, “Let there be Light where Liberty has Arisen.” Following are some
of the thoughts which Dr. Vowles rendered to the students:

“We find the beginning of liberty in Greek and Roman history. Its development has been found in religions of the
world through the history of mankind, and not many generations ago, people came to America from the Old World in
quest of religious freedom. The Quakers came over to this country in quest of religious liberty. As we compare ourselves
with the liberty in history, it is not difficult to see that the liberty that we have is Jesus of
Nazareth. The words ‘Let there be Light,’ are found in the Old Testament and are applied to the Universe having
at the same time a spiritual meaning. These words are found all through the New Testament, implying a command: ‘Let
there be Light!’

“The words, ‘Where Liberty has Arisen,’ are thought of as being the original motto, and the founders of this institution
saw fit to leave the motto for us to follow.”

Quintets Train For Cage Championship

At an early date, teams representing the four classes plan to begin battle for the college basketball championship. The Senior,
Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman teams, under the tutelage of Carl Pritchett, Dean Rusk, Frontis Johnson, and Bill Goodson, respectively, have
been practicing regularly for the past ten days. The schedule of games between the classes will soon be announced. It
is with much interest that each student will watch the team of his class defend its honor. Although the season
is a bit young, Wildcat Halfback Dick Bradshaw, who played a steady game against the Cadets to determine the relative
skill of the teams, it appears that the sophomores are favorites to cop honors. This may be largely explained by
the fact that varsity players are ineligible for interclass sports. Naturally, the youthful sophs have no varsity players.

Twenty-Eight Students Enlist for Tournament

In order to get a good line on prospects for the tennis team this spring, a tournament starts on Monday,
October 12. All upperclassmen are eligible, but freshmen will not be allowed to compete. Some close matches are expected, and
it is probable that there will be some upsets. A few sophomores have been showing fine tennis ability and intend
to give the old lettermen a real struggle. Twenty-eight men, a comparatively large number, have signed up for the tournament.
Halverstadt, Poe, Dubose, Rusk, Moore, Fain, S. B. McClean, and Johnston have been seeded. The first three rounds will be
two out of three sets. The semi-finals will probably go to three out of five. If everything runs off smoothly,
the finals will be staged sometime next week. The tournament will serve the purpose of naming, or giving a good
idea as to whom the next members of the tennis team will be.

Pritchett Plans Award For Champion Gymnast

After the football season has passed and things have slacked up a bit, Capt. Pritchett plans to stimulate an interest
in body building by a contest to find the best gymnast in the student body. This contest is scheduled for
sometime in January. The dates are to be arranged to suit those wishing to enter the contest. To the one
having the most points when the contest closes, a gold medal or some suitable trophy is to be given. Points
are given for satisfactory demonstration of each exercise. Various exercises have different point values. On the horizontal bar, one may
earn one point for the “front pull up,” two points for the “muscle grind,” or ten points for the giant
swing. It is possible to make 33 points on exercises with the horizontal bar. On the parallel bar, 47 points
may be earned by such maneuvers as the “hand stand” or “shoulder stand.” The horse stand offers a total of
21 points and the “tumbling” offers 29 points. In chinning, one must chin six times to qualify, and then for
each additional time a point is given. It is the same in the “swing-up”—six times to qualify and a point
for each extra “swing.” All contestants who accumulate a hundred or more points will be excused from further gym classes.

To those wishing to enter, there is posted at the old armory a list of the different exercises and their
point value.

OLD GOLD brought about a great change in smoking habits. It gave smokers a new freedom of enjoyment... without any
forbidden limits. The man who used to say “I can’t smoke until after lunch... my throat is sensitive in the
morning” now finds that he can “light up” whenever he pleases. For his morning OLD GOLD has no more throat-scratch
than his breakfast omelet. Likewise, all those who have to guard their throats... salesmen, singers, actors, and the like... no
longer have to stint their smokes, for OLD GOLD is as free of throat irritants as a glass of spring
water. Better tobaccos did it... naturally good tobaccos... extra-prime leaf made irritation-free by the violet rays of sunshine... not by
“artificial treatment.” If you like food that is naturally good, instead of food made good by “artificial treatment”... you’re sure
to prefer OLD GOLD’S natural tobacco smoothness. Try a package... and get a vote of thanks from both your throat
and taste.

© P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

...with “not a cough in a carload”

On your Radio, OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR, Paul Whiteman, with his complete orchestra, every Tuesday, 9 P.M. Eastern Standard Time.
