THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 26, 1929

Wildcats Conquer Elon Eleven As Visitors Resort to Strong Aerial Attack

SIDE LINE SHOTS At the 1929 Red and Black Gridders By P. R. Alderman

Once again the opening whistle has sent the Wildcat gridders down the turf at their first foe of a season the outcome of which is still one big question mark in the minds of the majority. However, it must be admitted that after giving Monk's squad the once over, things don’t look so bad after all, this in spite of the fact that we only chalked up a 20-6 victory over the Elon Christians last Saturday in the opening game of the season. As several papers have already stated, this can be more fairly accounted for, not by any particular weaknesses on the part of Davidson’s eleven, but by the fight and strength exhibited in the visiting team—especially in one Pete Williams, Christian fullback. Beyond any doubt, Pete was the outstanding star on the field throughout the contest last Saturday. Whether the Elon eleven was on the defensive or offensive, he was always in the midst of the fight, bareheaded and limping from an injury sustained early in the game, but getting his man nevertheless. His ability to break through the Wildcat line time after time to throw Davidson backs for five and six yard losses was the main factor in enabling the visitors to score their first touchdown in eight years against the Red and Black machine.

Credit must also be given to the rest of the team. Little Zack Walker at quarterback again proved himself a menace to any opposition when he tucked the pigskin under his arm and started a dash off-tackle or around end. In fact, the whole team furnished as much competition as Wildcat supporters could possibly desire, and almost a little too much. Pete Williams did take more than his share of the glory, but there is quite a bit due the Wildcats. McCall and Parrish twisted and fought their way through the opposition for many of the 250 yards that were made from scrimmage, while Capt. Brock at his flank position proved the mainstay in the line, both in defensive and offensive work. Steve Brown, sophomore tenant of the other flank, also did exceptionally good work in his first varsity game. It would be almost impossible to pick out any one man who stood head and shoulders above the rest, but it can be truthfully said that every man who saw action fought with the Wildcat spirit and showed the courage and grit that tradition has handed down to Davidson teams.

But the Elon game of this year is now history and the most important thing that looms in the minds of Davidsonians is the Clemson-Davidson clash in Charlotte next Saturday. Fellows, this game is going to decide many things about the 1929 Wildcat team and the showing it makes day after tomorrow will greatly determine the kind of season we have. Clemson undoubtedly has about the best team in South Carolina, as was evidenced by a 68-0 victory over Newberry, and, as far as that goes, in the South. It’s going to be a mighty tough game for the Wildcat eleven, but that only means they will fight all the harder. This has always proven true of them. And if we Wildcats on the sidelines will show our appreciation of this by backing them to the limit, there’s going to be a big surprise in store for us.

Christians Bow To ’Cats In First Game Of Season

Davidson Overcomes Elon 20-6—Visitors Score First Touchdown in Eight Years

Monk Younger exhibited his 1929 model Wildcat team for the first time Saturday against Elon, and the ’Cats came through to win handily by a score of 20 to 6. They showed a well-developed running attack that could gain almost at will through the Christian line. There were four hard-running, shifty backs whose work in the game bodes no good for future opponents, and a quick-charging line that opened wide holes and that stopped the Christian running attack almost dead.

However, the line and backfield combined were not able to stop a flurry of Elon passes late in the second quarter that netted the Christians their first score over Davidson in eight years. With Williams and Walker alternating on the hurling end, the ball was advanced down the field by a series of passes, long and short, and finally carried over the line on a pass, Williams to J. Waggoner. Elon got the ball on their twenty-yard line after a ’Cat punt. Williams and Waggoner got a first down, then Williams passed to Walker for twenty yards. This was shortly followed by a thirty-yard pass to P. Waggoner that placed the ball on Davidson’s 13-yard line, from where a third heave took it over. The point was blocked. The score came entirely as a result of the beautiful passing attack of the Christians, coupled with the complete inability of the 'Cats to block the passes.

Captain Thad Brock of Davidson turned in a sterling all-around game. His play both on defense and offense outshone that of any other linesman on the field. He was time and again crashing through the line to throw the Elon backs for losses. His offensive play made possible many long gains for the ’Cats, and his educated toe counted for two of the three extra points attempted. On the kickoffs, he consistently booted the ball 40 and 45 yards. As sensational as was Brock’s work, it was matched by the brilliance of a driving fullback of Elon by the name of Williams. Williams backed up the line in a manner that has seldom been seen on the local gridiron. Time and again he would stop the ’Cat backs for no gain or smash through to throw them behind the line. He wasHandicapped from the first of the game by a bad ankle, but it hardly made any difference in the brilliance of his play. He would come crashing through with the ball to make four or five yards through the center of the line, making his own hole where there was none, and taking two or three tacklers with him. His playing brought bursts of applause from the stands following many dazzling defensive or offensive plays. Williams was the outstanding star of the game, and mainly through his work was the score held down to three touchdowns. Walker, the quarter for Elon, was a wiry, peppy field general. His handling of punts was almost perfect, and his passes, for the most part, were accurate. Morphis, at center, tipped the scales at only 145 pounds, but made up in fight for what he lacked in weight. Brook was not the only star for the Wildcats. Red Parrish, playing his first game in the starting lineup, was an outstanding ground gainer. He got loose for several runs of fifteen yards or more, mostly in the second half. Joe McCall plunged and ran more and farther than his running mates in the first half. He had plenty of drive that often carried him through the line and into a broken field. Fraley and Brohard reeled off yardage so consistently that it became quite painful to the visitors. The work of Brown, a Sophomore playing his first varsity game, did much to quell any rumors as to the weakness of the ends. Brock kicked off 50 yards to Kelly to open the game. A poor punt by Elon, after they had made a first down, gave the Wildcats the ball in midfield. Brohard and McCall carried the pigskin straight down the field to the three-yard line on line plunges and off-tackle plays. However, Brohard fumbled the fourth down, and the ball went to Elon on their own eight-yard line. After one play, Elon was forced to punt, the ball going only thirty yards. The ’Cats immediately marched back down the field in the same manner as before, and Fraley took the ball over on one of the first plays of the second quarter. Brock kicked the extra point to make the score 7 to 0. Brock kicked off 60 yards to Kelly, who returned to his 20-yard line. Elon then advanced the ball by a series of passes to score their only tally of the day. Mathis blocked the extra point and the score stood 7 to 6 in favor of Davidson, the half ending in a few plays. The Wildcats came back fighting in the third quarter and put over two markers. The first score was featured by a pass, Brohard to Parrish, which netted 20 yards, and McCall’s run of 20 yards to carry the ball over the line. Brock again made the point. Elon received the kickoff, but lost the ball in their own territory a minute or two later when Brohard snared a pass and, assisted by a fifteen-yard run by Parrish, he carried the ball over for another touchdown. It required only nine plays to score from midfield. Brock missed the point, and the fourth quarter went scoreless. A woeful weakness in pass defense was the outstanding defect of the ’Cats. Elon had practically no trouble in completing its passes, fumbles on the part of the receivers knocking them out of more completed passes than did any hindrance given them by the Davidson players.

Lineup and Summary
Elon Position Davidson
Rolling sc. Brock (C) Left End
Smith Baker Left Tackle
Weston Decamp Left Guard
Morphis Mason Center
De Quay Mills Right Guard
Higgins Baker Right Tackle
Warhonk Brown Right End
Walker (G) McCall Quarterback
Waggoner (J) Parrish Left Halfback
Waggoner (J) Brohard Right Halfback
Williams Fraley Fullback

Elon 0 6 0 0—6
Davidson 0 7 13 0—20

Officials: Referee, Brice, Auburn; umpire, Rawson, Georgia; head linesman, Kirkpatrick, N.C. State. Scoring touchdowns: Elon—J. Waggoner; Davidson—Fraley, McCall, Brohard. Extra points: Davidson—Brock 2, from placement. Substitutions—Elon: Fogleman, Doffelmeyer, Clark, Branner, Coggins, Gresham. For Davidson: Mathis, Proctor, King, Covington, Parker, McQueen, McConnell, D. Bradshaw, Milton, Hewlett.

The crying need of the Wildcat team is a quarterback. Everything seemed K.O. until “Shad” Goodson, frosh captain last fall, decided to enjoy the peace and quiet of Lincolnton instead of another year at Davidson. Monk will have to fill his shoes. It is hard to say where that quarter is coming from. The coaches would give a lot to know the answer to this riddle.

DAVIDSON-ELON SUMMARY
Davidson Elon
First downs 19 8
Penalties 25 yds. 37 yds.
Ground gained from scrimmage 213 yds. 37 yds.
Passes 25 yds. 87 yds.
Passes attempted 4 14
Passes completed 1 6
Passes intercepted 2 0
Av. lgth. punts & kickoffs 44 yds. 39 yds.
Av. ydg. punts & kickoffs returned 9 yds. 15 yds.
Fumbles 1 0
Fumbles recovered 1 0

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Subscribe to your Favorite MAGAZINES
Special Club Rates For Two or More Subscriptions
Come Up and Get Prices on Any Magazine or Publication in the Country
LEDYARD DE CAMP

GEORGIA

New WELCOME Men
The Students Store Extends a Cordial welcome to all the old men and new men alike.
Come to see us about your wants
“Its yours why not patronize it?”
The Students Store.