THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17, 1929

Collegiate Comment

FEATURES

On This and That Music
By Horace W. Erwin

The power of enjoying and loving the best music is not a rare and special privilege, but the natural inheritance
of everyone who has ear enough to distinguish one tune from another, and wit enough to prefer order to incoherence.
—W. HADOW.

The college band has recently become recipient to the generous sum of $200, which has been donated by an interested
alumnus who prefers to conceal his identity, with the understanding that it be appropriated to the purchase of trousers to
match the now trouserless uniforms of the band members. Our beneficent donor, who happened to be present at the Elon
game, was heartily pleased with the music furnished by the band, but was quick to detect that the uniforms worn,
although brilliant and well-suited to the occasion, were incomplete as to trousers. Upon which he determined to supply the need.

This generous gift, supplying as it does their sartorial deficiency, is primarily important to the band members. And yet it
is not without significance to the college at large, and especially to those backing the progress of things musical at
Davidson. The donation is more than an event, however; it is a clear indication of three facts. It shows, in
the first place, that music is fast assuming its place as a participant in school functions, such as football games.
The organ solos in daily chapel, likewise, make music a salient feature of the service. Again, it shows that musical
activities commence to attract the attention of outsiders, as the presence of a band in the stadium. Thirdly, it predicts
that musical groups are coming into recognition as fitting recipients of financial aid and encouragement by alumni and friends of
the school.

It is apparent that many of the friends of Davidson can be made to see that there are many possibilities
here in the line of music. For it is not impracticable for musical talent, though idle, and musical interest, though
dormant, to be revived and put to use profitably. Such a movement, however, would require interest, encouragement, and support. In
many colleges, a course in vocal art, giving academic credit, is open to members of the glee club. Duke and
Guilford in North Carolina and Furman in South Carolina are three proximate institutions where that practice obtains. Needless to say,
such glee clubs are greatly enabled to better their performances.

Patronage is given to the R. O. T. C. band by the United States government, which furnishes many band instruments,
provided also the college will complement the number furnished. These instruments may be used by students outside of military work
throughout their college years. The work of our own concert orchestra, on the other hand, is retarded by a lack
of symphonic instruments, such as a bass viol, a ’cello, perhaps a viola, an oboe, and tympanies. The addition of
these instruments to our number would make orchestral work feasible.

The tendency toward jazz is so pronounced only because jazz is the only channel into which college musicians can turn
their ability and attention. And as long as there aren’t instruments owned by the college to produce symphonic music adequately,
there will always be an abundance of jazz orchestras using instruments easier to learn and cheaper to buy. But with
support by the college in the subsidy of instruments, interest in good music will be kindled. By the addition of
simply a ’cello and viola, a string quartet or a string ensemble could be easily formed, which would do much
to acquaint interested students with the charm and beauty of chamber music. And perhaps there are other combinations and musical
projects to be formed, but which await incentive and support.

TEAM ENTERTAINED
(Continued from page 1)

Charlotte; John Gwin, ’28, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Dr. Rufus T. Reid, ’07, New York; W. P. Anderson, '07, New York;
Capt. Norton G. Pritchett; Davidson, and Ernest Milton, Davidson.

Orthodox Jewish Father (to son prominent in college activities): “Son, vot's dis I read about you bringing home de bacon?”

The Cracker Box

Sandy MacPherson was travelling to Glasgow, and on the way he felt thirsty, so he took out a bottle and
drew the cork. Just as he was about to take a taste, a fellow-passenger in clerical garb addressed him: “Excuse
me, sir, but I am sixty-five years of age, and I have never tasted a drop of whiskey.” “Dinna worry
yersel’,” came back Sandy, “you're not going to start now.”

A man finds his ideal woman in one who possesses virtue, beauty, amiability, loyalty, affection, domesticity, comradeship, and patience. A
woman finds her ideal man in one who possesses mazuma, kale, cash, coin, currency, chink, and money.

She: “Who is that guy wearing a black robe? Is he a chimney sweep?”
He: “No. Merely a Klu Klux from Pittsburgh.”

“The next person who interrupts the proceedings will be sent home,” declared the judge.
“Hurray,” yelled the prisoner.

DR. REED SMITH
(Continued from Page Five)

However, he was founder of the extension department of the University of South Carolina, and first editor of the University
Weekly News. He was executive secretary of the South Carolina State Council of Defense; field secretary of the National Council
of Defense; was prominent in the third and fourth Liberty Loan campaigns in that section, and was chairman of the
Victory Loan campaign during the World War. Dr. Smith has been on the Davidson campus several times within recent years,
returning to the home of his Alma Mater to receive Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary scholastic and
leadership fraternities, respectively, which awards were made on the basis of his work in college and his prominence in the
educational field.

DAVIDSON ALUMNI RECEIVED MANY THRILLS
(Continued from Page Five)

Impulsive demonstration, for naught else could be accorded these scrapping boys as they trudged wearily to their dugout for a
breathing spell. Alumni started assembling early, some of them arriving at West Point several hours before the game. Others who
came in cars, assembled at the west end of Bear Mountain bridge, and formed a motor cavalcade that entered the
reservation together. Seventy-five had been the number guaranteed for lunch, but ninety-five tickets were sold, and more had to be
turned away because of a shortage of food. Section fifteen had been allotted to the Davidson alumni, and this section
was full from top to bottom with loyal sons of their Alma Mater. Other alumni were at the game and
unable to get into the section, but wherever they were situated, their eyes were focused on eleven red-jerseyed boys, most
of them in their teens, and their hearts overflowed with pride at the noble way their Alma Mater was being
represented almost a thousand miles away.

HENDERLITE DEFINES “A MAN”
(Continued from page 1)

To the best. The duty of the Church today is to build and maintain schools, and every agency that develops
the intellect is backed by the Church. Don’t be afraidof education. You will never be as smart as the One
who unfolds the Heavens. “A fourth thought must be given to the soul. A man who is going to bring
God into his life is the real man. The man who has religious faith sees a spiritual world, and he
is not a real man until he knows about immortality. The great need of America today is a revival of
religion for the purpose of thinking directly about God.” In concluding his talk, Doctor Henderlite pointed out that the final
analysis would be found in the words: ‘“Wanted—A Christian.”

Nouvelle Evant-hier Boost Davidson R. E. W.

Methinks that there is nothing more impressive in the history of the School than the columns which stood in front
of Chambers for so many years. To those who recall the memory of bright moonlit nights and a ghostly aurora
about their tall heights there is brought a tinge of Romance that is irradicable. New Chambers is possibly more beautiful
now than it was before, but the thrill of seeing rain trickle the gaunt sides of the columns and splash
in little puddles at the legs of those giants is a thrill which, even though legendary, can neither be described
nor forgotten.

And so while dreaming of their beauty I am reminded of a quaint and weird tale that has been told
around the college concerning them. In 1914 W. A. Dumas decided to go down into their depths and find out
what was going on below. Armed with a flashlight he was let down. In the dirt and mud he probed
and finally brought to light a grotesque skull. This confirmed a rumor that had been passed about for some years
among the inmates of the college. The skull was thought to have been placed there some years ago by a
student of the North Carolina Medical School when that institution was located at Davidson. And so, inspiration being negligent, a
rising young senior scribbled out a poem in honor of the skull and that lyric donned the name of “Archibald
Jones.” Thinking that perhaps the poem might interest some of you I have herein copied the gist of it:

“But to go back to the tale I am telling,
There came to the college the fall of one year
A man possessed of an aspect so dismal
All said he looked most exceedingly queer.
And when they asked him to tell what his name was,
He replied to them in sad dismal tones,
That the thing given to him at baptism,
Summed up in toto was ‘Archibald Jones.’”

And so this queer young student would go to his room and bar the door. At last the cat (that
curious one) came along and emulated Peeping Tom by glancing casually through the keyhole. What he saw was certainly not
capable of making him light that much-talked-of cigarette. For there in the room was a table load of gold with
Archibald gloating over his spoils. Then the eagle-eyed demon choked and bit and scratched until our Archibald was dead and
in a sack, when:

“Down in that column he dumped him head foremost;
Laughed he with glee when the bones hit the ground;
Thought that his troubles and worries were ended,
But stop! Say, what was that horrible sound?”

Then this naughty little lamb runs away not leaving his gold behind him, but leaving a walking, talking ghost instead.

“Some night perhaps when you're walking through Chambers,
You'll feel a wind that is icy and cold.
Something will touch you—'twill be wet and clammy;
Something will whisper, ‘Oh where is my gold?’”

“But if you question the truth of my story,
Down in that column you'll find all the bones
Of that bad mortal, whose name as he told them,
Summed up in toto was ‘Archibald Jones.’”

Down to supper and am reminded of the two freshmen who quarrelled over an extra piece of pie. They couldn’t
seem to settle the “pied” argument in any other way so they resorted to the ancient art of fisticuff. But
the devil came into that Garden of Eden, in the shape of another freshman who ate of the forbidden fruit
and spoiled a darn good fight. Like the cat and mouse in the churchyard—it was all gone. Who knows? Perhaps
that freshman was an angel—of course it is all in the way you look at a thing!

Out to look at the campus in its cloth of green and am considerably jolted by the realization that freshmen
take to green, e.g. That entire class, it seems, was gathered under the trees to have their fair mugs printed
on the celluloid. Huh, is it a coincidence that all these reminiscent thoughts deal with the serpent in the Garden?
Well, anyhow the sophomore stepped up with nearly every fire bucket of the hill, and several willing spirits were dampened.
The frosh took refuge in the Dorms but even here every door was a Niagarian deluge, every window a Victoria
Fall. And then came the rescue in the form of a dinner bell. Funny how bells in the evening are
always attendant on peace: There is nothing more beautiful and satisfying than the chime of vesper bells at sundown. They
whisper of peace and rest and sing of a refuge for the tired and weary earth.

And so to bed with serious thoughts concerning that Davidson alumnus who put off his wedding to play golf with
the time-worn Scotch Professor.

STOP that COLD and take Codex
The “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy for College Students, sold by a College Student
YOUR DRUGGIST HAS COLDEX COUGH Jim Galloway U of S.C.

NUMEROUS CHANGES IN ADDRESS (Continued on Page Five)
C. R. Crawford, '23, Springfield Y. M. C. A. College, Springfield, Mass.
R. B. Hayes, '29, 1253 Peabody Ave., Memphis, Tenn.
D. H. Howard, '28, Box 32, Cascadilla Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.
W. W. Carter, '21, Box 58, San Angelo, Texas.
J. A. White, '08, Washington, D. C.
A. M. Hilhouse, ’24, 23rd St., Y. M. C. A., Room 609, New York, N.Y.
Capt. L. A. Mullen, ‘16, Department of State, Box 150, General Post Office, New York, N. Y.
E. H. Smith, '29, care The Record, Hickory.
R. C. Platt, Jr. '28, 539 W. 112th St. Apt. 5-B, New York, N. Y.
J. Edward Johnston, '14, Equitable Building, Baltimore, Md.
J. E. Mason, '82, 1820 Clydedale Place, Washington, D. C.
S. C. Marks, '30, 630 Peachtree St., Atlanta, Ga.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP 1001 Argonne Place

EVERY THURSDAY At Norton’s Barber Shop
SEE GEO. W. LA PITZ BILLY BEST MUTT RODDY

ASK THE MAN WHO KNOWS
JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

SHOE REPAIRING CLEANING
That same unexcelled, superior quality workmanship characteristic of
WRIGHT CLEANING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Bob Turner, '31 Georgia

SERVICE PRESSING

Best Quality and Prices
ANY TYPE OF PRINTING
Earnest H. McCall 108 Watts
Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.
