THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1929

Davidson Professor Compares Ability Of World Series Teams

(This is the second article of a series of sport stories written especially for the Davidsonian by Prof. J. T.
Kimbrough.)

Who will win the coming world’s series? Flaring headlines in the daily press have blazoned that question from coast to
coast. Experts have discussed it. Baseball fandom has argued about it. Just what is the answer?

In this modern era of the lively ball, baseball is at once less scientific and more uncertain than it used
to be. Consequently, in recent years, forecasting the probable result of this greatest of sporting events has become a complicated
problem of many sides and angles. To attempt to predict the actual outcome of every detail is, of course, impossible.
Each individual opinion is a mere hypothesis of the “hit or miss” variety. Lucky indeed is the prophet whose predictions
tally even remotely with the final outcome.

Latest bulletins from Wall Street quote the Athletics as slight favorites in the early betting, it being the general consensus
of opinion that the Cubs will topple before the magnificent pitching of the Mackmen. It may be also that sentiment
has played a great part in swaying the betting. Connie Mack is a mighty popular man in the East, and
the majority of fans will be pulling for him to climax his team’s return to pennant-winning form, after fifteen years
of futile effort, with a victory in the coming series.

But sentiment alone never won much in baseball, and it is going to require more than that for the Athletics
to conquer the Cubs, a thoroughly capable rival, with a finer morale than has been possessed by a National League
contender for the past three years. The Pirates of 1927, and the Cardinals of 1928 were badly battered outfits. Both
won out in the final days of the race and entered the series under severe handicaps. Their pitchers were overworked,
the stars, in many instances, being compelled to work out of turn in order to retain their team’s precarious lead
in the league standing. The mental and physical strain on all of the regular players was terrific. There was no
chance for rest or a let-up in their playing until the final gong. Consequently, each team went “stale” during the
brief interim preceding the series and both were unlucky victims of the Yankee steam-roller in four straight games.

But the Cubs bear no such stigma. Having cinched the league title some two weeks ago, they now appear all
set for the conflict ahead of them. Their pitching staff, which wobbled noticeably during the early part of September, should
benefit by this lengthy lay-off and should be in fine form by October 8th. Manager McCarty has frequently utilized his
reserves in recent games to allow his regulars a much-needed rest. The presence in the lineup of Captain Charlie Grimm,
stellar first sacker, and Zack Taylor, catcher, which is now a certainty, makes them appear much stronger. They are a
confident lot and their confidence is based on a solid foundation.

Just here let us pause a moment and permit memory to revert to the world’s series of 1910, when the
Cubs and Athletics of a different era met under similar circumstances. One notes a striking contrast in that faded setting
of nineteen years ago and this vivid scene of the present. The venerable Cubs, undoubtedly one of the greatest teams
of all time, after dominating the baseball world for five years, had reached the nadir of their meteoric path across
the baseball firmament. The youthful Athletics had begun the swift ascent to the zenith of power and greatness, an ascension
that abruptly terminated four years later when Connie Mack dismantled his marvelous machine to revive a lagging interest in the
game. Neither before nor since has such a galaxy of individual stars adorned the world’s series stage. The ghosts of
Tinker, Evers, Chance, Schulte, Sheckard, Kling, Brown, Pfeister, Overall, Baker, Barry, Collins, McInnis, Bender, Coombs, and Plank still remain to
haunt the playing fields in Philadelphia and Chicago. The Mackmen were easy victors then. Will the coming event prove an
encore of the 1910 drama, with Connie Mack again in the leading role—or, will the final curtain reveal Joe McCarty
and his Cubs in the limelight of public acclamation?

Two teams, which on paper, appear so evenly matched, have doubtless been many years since. Both contestants are mighty aggregations.
Both boast sterling pitching, both are fine defensive outfits, both have heavy and consistent hitting. On the one hand, one
might argue that pitching will dominate the series, and that hits and runs will be comparatively scarce. Personally, I believe
such will be the case. On the other hand, both parks are small, and temporary seats erected in the ordinary
playing field may prove lucky havens for freak home runs. So far as what to expect is concerned, merely make
your guess and await actual developments. Rarely indeed do athletes play true to form in the sublime atmosphere of the
diamond classic. Baseball annals are replete with items recounting startling upsets. At times stars of the league campaign function normally—their
names are etched in baseball’s hall of fame. Again, there have been instances in which such stars have failed to
deliver, and the spotlight has been monopolized by unheralded players, who have frequently risen to dizzy heights of greatness.

Grantland Rice remarked recently that Rogers Hornsby is his choice as the possible “hero” of the coming event. I quite
agree with him. Always noted, in baseball parlance, as a “money player,” the stalwart person of the Rajah looms as
the greatest barrier to Athletic hopes. Shunted from club to club, thus acquiring the title of a troublemaker, Hornsby has
worked in perfect harmony with his present mates and even his most biased critic must admit that he deserves a
large share of credit in his team’s pennant triumph. He is certain to be a steadying influence to the Cubs.
The series will be just a few more games to him and should there be any drooping of spirits, his
presence will do much to rally them.

But one man isn’t going to win the world’s series. It promises to be a brilliant battle between two teams
packing a knockout punch and the one with the best defense will win the crown. Connie Mack will be compelled
to rely upon his two star southpaws, Grove and Walberg, with Rommell, Earnshaw, Quinn, and Ehmke in reserve. McCarty’s “murderers’
row” Cuyler, Hornsby, Wilson, and Stephenson are all right-hand batters. And only seven left-handers have beaten the Cubs during the
past season. Can the blinding speed of Grove and the supreme cunning of Walberg turn the trick? National League batsmen
are much more familiar with curve-ball pitching than they are with speed. Will Lefty Grove’s “fireball” prove as baffling to
the McCartymen as it has to sluggers in the junior circuit? I am inclined to answer “yes” to these queries.
Personally, I believe that Grove is the greatest pitcher in the game today. Throughout the present campaign, he has been
preserving his arm, generally wasting his “fast one,” or keeping it where it isn’t so easy to hit. When he
displays his talent against the Cubs, they will see something new and fancy in speed.

Buzzers Aid Bell To Close Classes

Davidson College students for years unnumbered have been expectantly listening for the toll of the college bell to bring each
class to a close, but hereafter they will not have to use their auditory senses. On the other hand, visionary
senses will be used, for the college has installed electric buzzers in every classroom of Chambers building, these announcers being
centrally controlled and automatically going into action at the termination of the class period. Students, therefore, will have their glances
riveted on these pieces of mechanism. The college has also installed four large clocks at conspicuous and useful points in
the building.

Subscriptions To Paper Gratifying

Reading a list of subscribers to The Davidsonian, weekly publication of the Davidson College students, sounds almost like a grammar
school boy or girl reciting the names of all of the United States, but who forgot a few of them.
Subscriptions to this organ are coming in at the rate of a dozen a day, and already Davidson alumni in
19 states and one foreign country have sent in subscriptions. Within the next few weeks, this number is expected to
increase to at least half of the total forty-eight. States represented on the mailing list are North Carolina, Maryland, Tennessee,
Kentucky, Florida, New Jersey, Virginia, Missouri, Alabama, Oklahoma, Texas, Mississippi, Louisiana, New York, South Carolina, Connecticut, Georgia, Rhode Island, and
Massachusetts.These are likewise centrally controlled in the office of the president’s secretary. Monday schedules are always different from other days,
and it so happened that this was the first day the buzzers were tried. Because of this difference, they went
into action in the middle of periods. Watches galore were extracted when the buzzing noises started. Students wondered whether they
needed new timepieces, or if they were seeing aright, but this wonder was short-lived, for the professors looked at their
own watches, saw the error and calmly announced, “Let us continue our discussion.”

LIBRARY SCHEDULE (Continued from page 1)
9 A.M. to 5:30 P.M.—Sundays.
Book Department—
9 A.M. to 6 P.M.—7 P.M. to 9 P.M. Monday to Friday inclusive.
9 A.M. to 6 P.M.—Saturdays.

Perhaps they won’t see anything at all—meaning the ball. Manager McCarty will counter with Bush, Malone, Blake, Root, and Carlson,
all right-handers. Nehf and Cvengros, southpaws, do not appear as potential starters, although each may see service in relief roles.
Bush, Root, and Malone are primarily fastball pitchers. Will their speedy slants silence the bats of Dykes, Haas, Simmons, Foxx,
and Cochrane? “No,” I reason. The American League is justly termed a “fastball” circuit. The Athletics, accustomed to this type
of pitching, should experience little difficulty in solving this star trio. Carlson looms as the “dark horse” of the Cub
staff at present. His recent work has been of high-class caliber and his pitching style should give the Mackmen more
trouble than they are likely to encounter from his mates. Those who reckon with the law of averages must side
with the Cubs. Not since 1926 has a National League contender won a game. The superiority of the American League
for the past two years has lowered the prestige of the senior loop. Only Quinn of the Athletic regulars has
had World Series experience, while Hornsby, Wilson, Nehf, McMillan, Cuyler, and Cvengros of the Cubs have tasted it. The fact
that the first two games are in Chicago may be a vital factor. The Cubs have proved to be practically
unbeatable on their home lot and any advantage gained there may prove a momentum that will carry them far. But,
if the Cubs must be in their own backyard to play their best, the following three games in Philadelphia may
more than offset this seeming advantage. Both teams are confident of ultimate victory. Both possess that spirit of loyalty and
indomitable courage that benefits a champion. The event promises to be a colorful one, and it is possible that it
will not end before the sixth game. Perhaps the seventh game will be necessary to decide the issue. Many things
can happen in the course of nine innings. Until the last man is out, the contents of the final chapter
of “Baseball for 1929” must remain a mystery.

Pearce Turner, 31 Ga.

Dr. Lingle Has Many Future Engagements
Davidson College is fortunate in having, in President Lingle, a promoter of such widespread interest in the College. As well
as having numberless admirers at Davidson, Dr. Lingle is beloved throughout the South. The number of engagements he has filled
since the opening of school, and those which he is scheduled for in the near future prove that he is
one of the most-called-for men. On September the 15th he preached at the Westminster Church, Charlotte. The following day he
met with the Concord Presbytery. In an address at this meeting, Dr. Lingle mentioned how striking it was that he,
as President of Davidson, should be speaking in the interest of the college at Prospect Church, on the steps of
which years ago plans were formulated for the founding of Davidson. Other engagements filled during September were a talk to
the Men’s Club of the First Presbyterian Church, Charlotte; the opening address at Mitchell College, Statesville; and the Myers Park
Presbyterian Church, Charlotte. He has made some fine talks here also, which include the Y Vesper Service on the 15th
and one to the Ministerial Band on the 29th. During the coming week, his engagements include a sermon at Asheboro,
a meeting with the Stewardship Committee of the North Carolina Synod at Rocky Mount on October 7th. He will remain
through the 8th and 9th, and on the 9th he will speak on behalf of Davidson. He is to speak
at the dedicatory exercises of the new Presbyterian Church at Greensboro on October the 10th. The following day, he will
meet with the Executive Committee of the Presbyterian Committee of Religious Education and Publication in Richmond, Va. In the Center
Presbyterian Church at Mount Mourne, he is to preach on October the 12th and 13th. He is then scheduled to
attend a conference of the Florida Synod in Ocala, Fla., October the 14th-20th in the interest of the College. His
last engagement is in Greensboro, where on October the 20th-27th, he will preach at the Westminster Presbyterian Church. At the
noon hour, he will speak to a general meeting of elders, deacons, and Christian workers of Greensboro. October will be
Dr. Lingle’s busiest month, due to many important meetings, but he expects to be in his office most of the
time in November.

EXTENSIVE PREPARATIONS (Continued from page 1)
Davidson plays West Point on October 12. The officer in charge of information and press relations at West Point is
a close personal friend of mine and if you will be good enough to send me some “propaganda,” I will
be glad to see that as much space as possible in the New York newspapers is given to the game
with proper reference to the Davidson College contingent. I should also like to have you designate me to prepare a
special article on the game for your paper—not a play-by-play write-up, but a special article. I was editor-in-chief of Quips
and Cranks in 1916, and my connection with the Army is that of Captain of the Air Corps Reserve. With
greetings to Davidson, and best wishes for the football season, I am, Cordially yours, Leroy A. Mullen.

Davidson Men Earn High Recognition At Fort McClellan
Davidson men who received six weeks of military instruction at Fort McClellan this summer report a very delightful and successful
season. Davidson maintained its usual rating this time, winning second place in military and general efficiency. The judgment of efficiency
was based upon marksmanship, knowledge of military tactics, and excellence in athletics. Col. W. R. Scott was in charge and
Capt. J. A. Otto was adjutant captain of the division which represented fifteen colleges and two prep schools: namely, Emory
University, Florida, Louisiana State University, Georgia, Georgia Tech, Tennessee, Clemson, P. C., Mississippi A. & M., The Citadel, N. C.
State, Alabama, Wofford, North Georgia Aggies, and Davidson; and two prep schools, Riverside Academy and Georgia Military Academy. Clemson had
by far the greatest number of any of the schools. In rifle marksmanship Davidson took second place, Florida being the
highest scorer. Several of the Davidson men qualified to shoot, but L. C. Roberts was chosen to represent Davidson in
the sharpshooters’ contest. The college baseball team, consisting of those taking advanced R.O.T.C., reached the semi-finals, defeating the University of
Florida 5-4. In the next game Davidson was defeated by N. C. State 8-0. The local boys were outstanding in
boxing, swimming, and track. In addition to excellence in athletics, Davidson had her share of company commanders and platform leaders
in charge. The Davidson men and officers and Camper O’Neal, whose home is in Alabama, were guests at a very
delightful banquet which was given to them at camp. In 1927, she won national recognition by having one of the
best military units in the United States, and she has maintained that degree of excellence ever since. During the past
summer at Fort McClellan, her men proved to the other colleges and universities that Davidson ranks high in both military
tactics and general efficiency.

ORGAN TEACHER SECURED (Continued from page 1)
Paul Fry, graduate student and assistant in music, is the chapel organist and will have charge of arranging a suitable
time for advanced students to practice on the Chambers organ.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Davidson Theatre
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7 AND 8
Wise Girl
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9 AND 10
Mysterious Island
Lionel Barrymore, Lloyd Hughes, and Jane Daly
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11
Words and Music
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12
Hurricane
