Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN January 17, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday.
Anonymous articles will not be published.

BROWN.................Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
AUBREY W. M. PO
F. D. MILLER...............Managing Editor
C. M. PRATT...............Managing Editor
R. F. JARRATT.............Managing Editor
Z. V. LONG.................Sports Editor
V. A. MILTON..............News Editor
P. B. PERRY...............Society Editor
D. P. ANDERSON...........Feature Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN..........Assistant Editor
J. L. BROWN...............Assistant Editor
C. R. LAKE.................Associate Editor
J. B. MORIARTY............Associate Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT..........Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
L. A. MIMS.................Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. McC..................Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. .....................Asst. Bus. Mgr.
R. F. S.....................Circulation Mgr.
H. B. ......................Subscription Mgr.
H. Mc......................
G. D. ......................
A. .......................
D. .......................
L. W. .....................
C. H. DUBOSE..............
V. C. RAGIN...............
R. GRAHAM................
D. RUSK...................
W. KIRKPATRICK..........
W. R. WEAVER.............
S. H. ......................
S. S. WILEY................
J. P. McBRYDE.............
J. V. D. MIDDLETON........

THURSDAY, JANUARY 17, 1929

And as we turn to these sterner things of life—the aspect is not exactly what you might term pleasant for the next ten days. It’s just a case of examinations, that’s all. If “etc.” means, as the British schoolboy said, “something to make people think you know more than you do,” then professors may expect much of et cetera on exam papers.

All this talk of examinations reminds us that there will be time out for The Davidsonian until January 31st. For one thing, there will be a rest from the pestilence of managing editors, magazine reviewers, Open Forum articles, all kinds of critics for a while. Then, there may be enough happenings to fill up the columns with something besides what the other colleges are doing. What this place needs is more news-seekers on a big scale.

CHARGE IT TO THE FACULTY

Just what the entertainment being arranged by the Faculty in honor of the Senior Class and guests for next month is going to be we don’t know exactly, but the very effort on their part calls for a word of commendation and appreciation from these columns.

Davidson, so situated and so restricted, is almost barren of anything pertaining to or bordering on social activity. It is an unfortunate circumstance that those in charge of student activity have so little in the way of materials and places in which to work and plan student functions that their efforts meet with little response. And so every attempt to provide more social contacts for Davidsonians, who usually are forced to seek their entertainment elsewhere, is welcomed unreservedly.

In this first entertainment of the Seniors, there should be a splendid response, not only in appreciation of the Faculty and the invitation extended but that more social life in the future may be made possible for the student body. Practically every senior will have a guest here for this occasion. And every senior should plan to respond to the invitation and to cooperate with the committees in charge.

COLLEGE, FOR WHAT PURPOSE?

In the seemingly ever-moving stream of student activity, one may swiftly be submerged and be played upon by forces of the college life which remove one from the realm wherein he takes thought of his purposes and his desires concerning his future until the resulting condition is cause for concern. “Just what is this thing of college all about?” he asks, if he stops to think. “What do I hope to carry with me besides a diploma when I leave this institution?” the serious one may wonder.

As many different responses will be given to these queries as the number of men approached. One who has succeeded scholastically, who has made high grades, rests comfortably with the satisfaction of having accomplished his tasks in a manner recognized as best by the educational world. One who has accepted his courses only as necessary evils in acquiring a college education tells of social benefits, of friendships formed, and of happy memories of past experiences. One after another may offer some distinct advantage which college has offered him. An advantage which he has grasped and utilized and therefore would tend toward making him a success “in his line” rather than a failure. This opportunity which he has made use of seems to be the main purpose of the college, or so he says.

Chancellor E. A. Burnet of the University of Nebraska gives his ideas as to what one should obtain from attendance at an institution of higher learning. His tests for the true education are:

“Does it stimulate a thirst for knowledge?
“Does it increase the general information and the general culture?
“Does it develop reason and a judicial attitude through an enlarged historic background?
“Does it teach specific technical knowledge by which one may become economically proficient?
“Does it develop intellectual power; does it promote education that is self-starting and self-propelling?
“Does it make for physical and moral fitness?
“Does it develop initiative to cope with the problems of life?
“Does it develop character and a sense of public obligation rather than selfishness and snobbery?
“Does it challenge the individual to more effective service and leadership?”

Measured by this standard of the “true education,” how much of it have you received?

IMPROVED CHAPEL SERVICE

At the opening of this college semester, the student body petitioned the Faculty that students be allowed to conduct the devotionals in the morning chapel. These students were to be selected by members of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet, each of which body was to be responsible for the choice of leaders for a set time. After due consideration, the faculty granted this petition. Dr. Martin stated at the time that the arrangement would not be one of a permanent nature, in case that, after due trial, it was shown to be more unsatisfactory than the former arrangement. This plan was suggested and adopted tentatively through the desire to see the student getting the most that is possible from the period. And it was the general feeling at the time of the adoption of the plan that the student body would feel more closely connected with the devotional exercises, and would really get more from them, if one of their own number were the leader.

Now that the system has been in effect for some time, and we may begin to judge it, the question naturally arises, Is the new plan of leadership better than the former? That it is, beyond a doubt, much better—at least from the student's point of view—is our firm belief. In the first place, there is now always some interest in the leader, for he is, if we may judge from the past, one with some ability to lead services of such a nature. More powerful in the provoking of interest perhaps, is the fact that the face will be new, and the point of view different. Most influencing, however, is the knowledge that the speaker will be one of us and that he...

Freshmen shall...

Cosmic Chaos
By J. W. McCutchan

Murder and arson are the charges brought against Jacob Vanderburg, Gaston county youth, found sitting on the roadside not far from the burning house where the bodies of the other members of his family were found. He persistently denies participation in the crime. Professor Brandorine, who is will be recalled took such an active part in the “love powders trial,” declares he has found the boy to be innocent by gazing through his crystal. Claiming membership in the Order of White Rats, Brandorine admits, modestly enough, that he is one of the best magicians and soothsayers in the country. It hardly behooves the uninitiated to speak with assurance on the occult sciences, but it would appear that wealth, as was at hand in the now almost forgotten Leopold-Loeb case, would be of more avail than the bearded “Professor.”

Among others who have this writer’s sympathy as well as pity might be mentioned George McManus and Tad. Turning out their daily Jiggses and Knights of the Pool Room must necessarily become boresome. McManus was forced to his profession through misfortune in a love affair. A desire for revenge propelled him. He got it. Tad, likewise, was the victim of the Fates. Caricatures of the faculty at Dartmouth were not considered “the thing” in his day. Expelled from that institution he naturally turned to his weakness for his livelihood. Let the Davidsonian cartoonist beware!

Hurrah for the “?” Perhaps that worthy writer, Mr. Brisbane will sign off for the time being on the question of our country’s deficiency in aviation. Eclipsing all records the plane piloted by army fliers, remained in the air for more than 150 hours. Japan’s remarkable production of pursuit and bombing planes, “which are undoubtedly to be sent against the Philippines,” has been forgotten; also the temporary excellence of Europe’s aeronautical engineers.

And the stock market slumped. Erratic trading has been the feature on Wall Street since the New Year. Stocks have gone up and down, but trading has fallen off and conservatism is the pass word of the day. Perhaps it will astonish some who thought of the last election as assuring the return of Big Business. But the financial magnates are crafty and “withal crafty and cunning;” a civil engineer has not sat in the presidential chair for years. His policy is doubtful. Incidentally it is hard to pin him to the party’s share of the spoils while he is “good willing” in South America. But don’t sell America short!!

Always colorful and one of the best-known figures in sporting circles, Tex Rickard will not pass unnoticed. As a promoter of fisticuffs, he was a genius, a financier, an unerring judge of the whims of the mob. A true friend to both fighters and sports writers, he did much to improve the reputation of prize fighting. Times have...

(Continued on page 6)

Hotchpot
By Kendrick Pritchett

WANTON WILES
By Dave Anderson

What is the effect of new inventions on wage-earners? When Ford changed models, it was estimated that, beside the scrapping of millions of dollars worth of machinery, about 60,000 people in Detroit lost their jobs. At $6 a day, this meant a loss of $9,000,000 a month to the wage earners. During that period the Community Fund in Detroit had to ask $600,000 more for additional relief. In six years the quantity output in manufacturing industries increased by over 28 percent, but there were almost a million fewer workers employed. The recent declaration by a president-elect that “by the hundreds of thousands” these scrapped workers are being transferred to our insurance and banking offices may be dismissed as political hokum. Our steel plants, shoe factories, copper smelters, automobile plants and lumber mills have capacities of from 70 to over 300 percent above what the market can absorb. Abraham Epstein says, “Indeed, the radical critics pin their revolutionary hopes on this dilemma of increasing unemployment and accelerated work-speed.” Try as...This column could, we could not resist the temptation to publish some poetry to rival that of the psittaceous, katzenjammer Chameleon, composed in their high-brow Horatio Alger style to the nth power, with the same shillelagh swing and of as much consequence to you and me as the addresses of all the Smiths in the telephone directory of Kalamazoo, Michigan. If our derelict magazine wants buncombe, why don’t they publish something like this?

Hickory, dickory, dock,
The mouse ran up the sock.
The lassie cried —
'Twas from pure fright.
The sight we saw — Good night — or,

There, little speakeasy,
Don't you cry,
You'll be another one
By and by.

But that is as much of the poem as will ever see the light. Unless Mr. Durant wants to pay $25,000 for the other thirteen verses.

We have heard so much about the average man that we have begun to wonder what he is like. Psychologists and sociologists have been busy painting a picture of this average man, adding a stroke here and a stroke there as their researches proceed. Here are some of the things they say about him (and Dr. Glenn Frank is our authority):

He is rated in the scores of the mental tests at about the level of fourteen years. He does not go beyond the eighth grade in school. He speaks only one language, and that one neither with finesse nor finish. His vocabulary rarely exceeds seventy-five hundred words, whereas the average high school graduate has a vocabulary nearly double that number.

(Continued on page 6)

OPEN FORUM

FRESHMEN AND THE POST OFFICE

The Editor:

As a member of the student body I wish to take issue with some statements which appeared in the Open Forum column of last week’s issue. The statements to which I refer are those purporting to be in some way about the question, Resolved: That freshmen should not enter the Post Office until some time after Chapel. The gentleman was supposedly of the Negative side. I do not know whether I am holding myself up as an object of laughter in mentioning the side which he claims to champion, or not. For the arguments he brought forth are so very childish — or senile (for they were certainly extreme), that he must have been really trying to show how good the present system is, while professing to show its weak points.

In the first place, the gentleman bases his whole outburst upon the reasoning that it is a more common-sense plan to be jostled about a very little, than it is to have to make — here his keen humor is apparent — two or three trips to and from the door to give freshmen their mail. A new idea occurs. Surely the gentleman must be a freshman; for otherwise he would remember the one or two times that he has gone down to get mail after chapel; and, after getting within a few yards of his box in fifteen or twenty minutes, being nearly crushed to death, and so hemmed in that he might in no way reach his final destination. In the future I should like to suggest that he be freed from having to make one trip for freshmen’s mail each day, or at the most, two trips.

In respect to the other Open Forum contribution, can we not in the future let all matters of history be confined to the history classes? There seems to be no adequate excuse for digging around in our peaceful, bucolic surroundings, merely to see the dust fly.

(Continued on page 6)

THE BULL PEN

Don Marquis, famous author and “reformed columnist,” in a recent article, discloses to the public that writing a column isn’t all it’s cracked up to be. Echo answers “Ditto.” This might be a poor excuse for a column, but just the same, it is a column, and does its duty as a column — occupies a column of space. And writing it is no picnic. Copy from other papers, and we are termed non-original. Print our own jokes, and we fail to be humorous. Be most refined, and our column falls flat. Be unrefined, and the only space this writing fills is the editor’s waste basket. If we try to make this a dignified type of humor, and we are trying to be too serious like. Be light with the humor, and we are called silly. Say something about Cal, congress, or the democratic party and, positively, we are copying Will Rogers, regardless of the fact that the newspaper man stopped our Observer months ago for not paying for it, and hence stopped our perusal of Will’s front page box.

“How do you write so well day after day, month after month? How do you think of things to write?”, the general public inquires of the columnist of a big newspaper, says Don Marquis. “Oh, it’s easy as eating pie,” is the reply they get. And the newspaper man tells another lie. “How do you think of such fool bull?” they ask us. “Oh it's simple,” is the standard reply (Remember the motto of Davidson’s Greatest Newspaper: “The truth must be carefully avoided at all times.”) But it is not simple. Usually, an hour suffices to type this bull off. But it usually takes four or five class periods under easy-talking profs, and several labs to think of what to write. Like our alarm clock, this can’t keep up forever. It has a certain unbreakable charm that holds one (something like Kipling’s description of the Orient: You can’t break away from it.) That, please couldn’t you, is our one and only excuse for keeping this up. Though we like it lots, we must leave some day. And so, for the benefit of other raving maniacs and complete idiots who would like the job some day, we print the following rules for writing “The Bull Pen,” together with certain attributes the editor must have:

SOME BULL ON BULLING

1. The editor of this space must, besides being crazy enough to take the job, be expert at shooting the bull.
2. He must have at least six classes a week lecture courses (this gives one ample time for mental loafing).
3. He should take at least one course under profs given over to telling humorous incidents they experienced personally (this gives one at least one page of bull a month).
4. Immediately after class, dash madly for the junk pile (once a typewriter) and put in black and white all, if any, of the humor gleaned.
5. Keep a plentiful supply of so-called humorous magazines, college monthly funny named magazines (also so-called humorous). Copy when necessary.
6. Frequent places of question: college boarding houses, bull sessions, U Push ins to and from, etc.

TRUE STORIES OF COLLEGE LIFE

A chap we knew at a northern technical school was a fiend for solitaire. So much so, that he would dash to his room between classes to change books, etc., and in that short time, standing up, clad in slicker and slouch hat, indulged in a game of this amusing past-time. What a life!

“Life is very simple; it consists merely in learning how to accept the impossible, how to do without the indispensable, how to endure the insufferable. What could be easier?” Must be great, eh? If you don’t weaken — but who wants to be strong?

THINGS WE LEARNED FROM GIRLS AT QUEENS by Davidson ’27

1. That one’s college education doesn’t come entirely from books.
2. With a “blind” date, you have to feel your way along slowly and carefully.
3. Converse and N. C. C. W. aren’t so hot.
4. The love that “lies in a girl’s eyes” often does so.
5. The Freshman class isn’t, by a long shot, as dumb as their upperclassmen think.
6. That Saturday night has other purposes than commonly thought — try and get a date any other night.
7. Queen's girls never say “No!” — They yell it.
8. —
9. —
10. —
11. (last four remarks censored).
12. That, actually, this isn't such a bad old world.
13. It's team work that counts. All dates work together. Hurrah for the mob!

ADVICE TO GIRLS

Dear Miss Prude,

Last week-end I had my first date with a Davidson man. He asked to kiss me, and — well, that’s my weakness now. I am worried. Will he come to see me next week or will he think I'm just like all other girls? What should I do?

“Worried”

“Worried”,

My advice is this: By next week-end, either have your telephone removed or else prepare to receive the whole Davidson student body. Take your choice. Don’t worry, even though he knows you are just like all girls — they always come back for more.

Sincerely,
Miss Prude

(Editor's Note: — Write in any problems you may have to Miss Prude, care of this column.)

VIEWS AND REVIEWS By Chatham Clark

E. Phillips Oppenheim, in an interview just before he returned from New York gave the latest literary market report. And who could be a better authority?

“Sex is dropping a little,” he said, “and crime is coming again. A good sound romantic story is what the American wants. In England where the sex story has always been popular the demand remains the same. I get less translation rights into French, they want nothing else. I get less translation rights into French than even into Jugo-Slavian. I attribute my popularity to keeping away from sex.”

Mr. Oppenheim’s latest novel (his 104th) is “Matorni’s Vineyard,” the story of an Italian dictator of 1940. His 105th novel will make its appearance on January 26th under the title of “The Treasure House of Martin Hews.” His stories are always interesting and somewhat unusual, and on January 26th we can be sure of finding a book that will at least live up to his standard, if not even surpassing it.

When we read “Soundings,” and “Labels” we were very much pleased with the writings of A. Hamilton Gibbs, but his latest book, “Harness,” is awful, or in more literary terms, rather disappointing. We have admired Mr. Gibbs for giving us a picture of real rural England, thus giving our would-be modern writers a chance to bring in the life of the titled class and the title seekers. A mild criticism could be offered as to the way that the author has his characters situated. Usually in an old English garden drinking rivers of tea, even this repetition could not touch that outstanding factor, “The Aftermath of a War.” To say that this subject has been overworked is but putting it lightly, but to have an author basing the theme of three consecutive books on this subject, is a little more than an intelligent public can tolerate. As usual, the description is very near perfect, and very near the same that is found in his other books. A good suggestion is to re-read “Labels” changing the names of its characters, and save your $2.50. You will get even more than your money’s worth.