Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN March 22, 1929

ATHLETES HONORED
*(Continued from page 1)

“That torch is none other than your coveted ‘D’—Be it yours, then, to hold it high,” were Captain Pritchett's closing
words. As a token of recognition for what they had done for Davidson, and as a symbol of appreciation of
the student body, Professor Fleagle presented gold footballs to the following 1928 letter men: Thad Brock, Barium Springs; Warren David,
Wilmington; W. N. Middleton, Mobile, Ala.; Captain A. W. Baker, Stony Point; D. O. Leftwich, Conyers, Ga.; W. C. Archie,
Salisbury; Sam Smith, Charlotte; Captain-elect H. Y. Harper, Oak Hill, Ala.; A. L. DeCamp, Boonton, N. J.; Riggs McConnell, Davidson;
Walter Fraley, Barium Springs; Dick Flinn, Jr., Atlanta, Ga.; R. E. Kell, Pascagoula, Miss.; T. W. Brohard, Grafton, W. Va.;
Sam Black, Davidson; C. H. Mauzy, Jr., manager, Harrisonburg, Va.; J. T. Kerr, Wilmington; J. R. Covington, Raeford.

Football certificates were presented by Dr. J. M. Douglas to the same above-named men. Dr. Hood awarded certificates to the
following Wildcats for basketball: R. G. Calhoun, C. R. Pritchett, Dean Rusk, F. W. Johnson, W. B. Goodson, L. C.
Wadsworth, and M. L. Crawford.

A very amusing but interesting talk was made by Dr. Arbuckle, in which he commended the work of Captain Pritchett
as physical director. He emphasized the fact that although Davidson's teams have been somewhat fearfully handicapped sometimes by physical weight
and power, every member has taken it upon himself to put up a one hundred percent fight all the way
through the game. He told the students that Captain Pritchett had no easy task before him as physical director, and
that the director had promised a stronger and better student body. More than sixty men had been measured up, at
the first of the fall, to participate in the contest of physical development which had been offered by Captain Pritchett.
However, a few weeks later, approximately thirty men were remeasured, and eight of these thirty showed a minimum of six
and four-eighths inches in physical improvement. Splendid improvement was noted in the physique of H. L. Carr, Freshman, who obtained,
out of ten measurements taken, a record of nine and three-eighths inches in improvement. In recognition of this, he was
presented a silver cup by Dr. Arbuckle. A. W. Cowan was next, showing an improvement of nine inches.

Following this, Colonel Scott and Professor Blythe presented certificates for tennis and wrestling respectively. Those who were given tennis certificates
included the following: F. W. Johnson, J. T. Roddey, A. N. Haverstadt, R. W. Carr. For wrestling, certificates were presented
to Captain T. E. Hill, Thad Brock, Romney Herriott, W. H. Flythe, John Christenbury, Alex. Warren, L. H. Cowan, Charles
Marrow. A. N. Myers, varsity cheerleader, was also awarded a certificate.

Professor Currie then made a commendatory speech to the students, using as his subject, “A Real Wildcat.” He defined a
“Real” Wildcat as the custodian of what is called the Davidson Wildcat spirit. He stated that a “Real” Wildcat is
the precious guardian of Davidson. Three men who were designated Real Davidson Wildcats were Dr. J. M. McConnell, Professor of
History at Davidson, who has always shown an intense and never-failing interest in all athletic activities; Mr. J. A. Cannon,
Concord, N. C., who was mentioned as having done a great deal to safeguard the Wildcat spirit; and Mr. Joe
Johnson, Barium Springs, who was a loyal Wildcat on Davidson's team years ago.

To conclude the exercises, Dr. Oren Moore, Davidson alumnus, and medical doctor of Charlotte, introduced Judge Fred Helms, Charlotte, judge
of the county recorder’s court, who gave an interesting and forceful talk on his personal views of athletics; how he
had noticed the Davidson football team as being always in good form; and how they had lived up to their
example as true Wildcats. He mentioned the fact that athletic sportsmanship in America could never have reached the point where
it is now, except through influence in American colleges. “People have come to realize that two things have to come
together, a sound mind and a sound body. We have come to the point of developing the brain qualities of
sportsmanship. The spirit dominates in the representatives of Davidson's college teams. There is a value of education to the institution
and a value to the individual. We need the discipline that we get in the training of athletics,” these were
some of the interesting facts brought out in his talk. The singing of “College Ties” marked the concluding number for
the exercises.

GOOD HOTELS IN GOOD TOWNS
Hotel Charlotte
DAVIDSONIANS REMEMBER US WHEN IN CHARLOTTE WE WELCOME YOU
Operated by Southeastern Hotels Co.
W. L. Christian, Manager

Four Deputations Sent By Y. M.C. A. During the

Lacalle Addresses Students March 19
Native of Philippines is Speaker and Author of Note

On Tuesday evening, March 19th, Prof. Julian Moreno LaCalle, Dean of the Spanish School at Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., spoke
in Shearer Hall. Prof. LaCalle delivered his lecture in English. During the present school year, Prof. LaCalle is spending his
sabbatical year as Guest Professor at Rutgers University, and is giving lectures at schools throughout the East and South.

He is a native of the Philippine Islands, born at Manila in 1881, of Spanish parentage. He attended school in
the Philippines and received the A.B. degree from the University of St. Thomas at Manila at the unusually early age
of 14. Later on he did graduate work at St. Thomas, in Spain, at Zurich, in Switzerland, and received the
Master of Arts degree at St. Johns College of the University of Maryland. Prof. LaCalle was in the employ of
the United States government in Manila as translator of Spanish documents. He is also an author of note, having written
a number of textbooks for Spanish students, and numerous articles treating with methods of teaching and conducting classes for magazines.

Professor LaCalle will remain on the campus for several days orienting himself with Southern manners and customs. During his stay
he will visit several of the Spanish classes and will give talks to these classes in Spanish.

Myers Will Speak On “Ministry” Wed.
Dr. Charles F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Greensboro, N. C., will close the Vocational Guidance program
with a talk on the subject of “Ministry.” Dr. Myers will be on the campus Tuesday and Wednesday and he
will conduct a series of discussion groups with the students on Wednesday morning. Dr. Myers conducted a service here three
years ago. He is a minister who is popular with boys and is well known throughout the state and Presbytery.
These discussion groups worked very successfully when Dr. Brenizer was here. Aubrey Brown is in charge of these interviews, and
all students desiring to talk with Mr. Myers through one of these groups, will see him.

First Student: “What's your roommate like?”
Second Ditto: “Everything I've got.” —Ex.

“Sampson,” said a nearby Philistine, “I see you have a haircut.”
“Yes,” replied Sampson, “that’s my weakness now.” —Ex.Past week, F. R. Brown was sent by the “Y” to Rutherfordton to
give a talk at an older boys’ conference. This conference, which was sponsored by the Rutherfordton Kiwanis Club, was attended
by boys from several of the adjacent towns. These conferences are very important affairs as the boys are gathered together
to discuss everyday problems and ideas which are always arising to confront them. Brown spoke to these boys on the
subject of “Seeking.”

J. R. Graham was sent to Rockingham to attend a meeting of boys from the Hi-Y clubs of Rockingham and
the towns of that district. The purpose of this meeting was to build up interest in these clubs.

Sunday, a deputation was sent to Taylorsville to conduct services in the New Salem Church. This deputation consisted of C.
R. Lake, R. F. Sloop, A. B. McClure, T. E. Hill, and J. E. Gardner. Two services were held, a
morning service and an afternoon service. The usual representative of the “Y” went to Charlotte to talk to the Charlotte
Y. M. C. A.

Y.M.C.A. TO HOLD EASTER PROGRAM

The “Y” Vesper Service on Sunday, March 24, will be a special Easter Music Service. It will take the place
of the annual Christmas service which was not given last Christmas due to the early close of school on account
of the “flu” epidemic. In the past years, programs of this nature have been given very successfully and were very
well attended. The service will take the form of an oratorio, the theme presented being taken from that portion of
the Bible which has reference to the Resurrection. The Glee Club will be in charge of the musical part. The
program is as follows: Song, “Tell Me the Old, Old Story,” by Glee Club off stage; Scripture Reading, “The Comforter
Promised”; assembly sings, “All Hail the Power of Jesus’ Name.” Responsive reading of Scripture passage, “The Triumphant Entry.” Anthem by
Glee Club, “Lift up Your Heads, Oh Ye Gates.” Scripture reading, “The Last Supper,” to the accompaniment of music. Assembly
sings, “Break Thou the Bread of Life.” Prayer. Scripture reading, “The Crucifixion,” Easter number sung by Mrs. Cullum with response
by Glee Club.

Negotiations are being made for the annual Y. M. C. A. commencement speaker and also for the Mother’s Day Speaker.
As soon as they have accepted, their names will be published. There will be no service on Sunday, March 31,
because of the spring holidays. The Vespers on the following Sunday will be the installation service.

You will find the finest leathers and most correct lines in John Ward shoes. A wide variety of lasts, specially
selected and designed for college men’s wear.

John Ward MEN'S SHOES On Display By BILL BAILEY AND DEAN RUSK 208 Watts

WAFFLES OPEN LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOPPE COFFEE Around corner from First National Bank SANDWICHES 2 A.M. Sunday.

Get your clothes fixed up for Easter. Have your suits fitting as they should fit, as you like them to
fit. I can alter your clothes.

A. GERSKOV THE TAILOR AT THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.

Bill: “I'd like you to paint a portrait of my late Uncle.” Painter: “Bring him in.” Bill: “I said my
late Uncle.” Painter: “Well, bring him in when he gets here then.”—University of Delaware Review.

“What is your son going to be when he gets out of college?” Mr. Libecap: “An old man I’m afraid.”—Ex.

Queen: “Charles, the baby has a stomach ache.” King: “Page the secretary of the interior.”—Lion.

Prof.: “Why don’t you answer me?” Fresh: “I did, Professor; I shook my head.” Prof.: “But you don’t expect me
to hear it rattle away up here, do you?”—Ex.

JUNIOR MANAGERS CHOSEN FOR CAMP

Davidson College will be very well represented at the annual R. O. T. C. camp this summer. Lieut.-Col. Scott and
Capt. Otto will also attend the encampment at Camp McClellan, near Anniston, Ala., where Col. Scott will be in command.
This is the R. O. T. C. camp for this corps area which is composed of eight states. The men
from the Junior Class, who are taking advanced R. O. T. C. and who will go to camp this summer,
have elected various managers from among their number to take charge of organizing various athletic teams. F. W. Johnston was
elected the general manager to represent the Junior Class at Camp McClellan. Four other managers were chosen to organize the
various teams. D. K. Miller was appointed baseball manager, L. L. Barr was made track manager, W. H. Morrison was
chosen boxing manager, and C. A. Ritchie was elected swimming manager. The purpose of these managers is to organize the
Davidson men at camp so that they can take full advantage of it and win as many trophies as possible.
(Of course, Davidson is too small to compete with the larger schools with any degree of success, but it is
hoped that the men will win a number of events.) The students will be required to take their own athletic
equipment to camp, as this will not be provided for them.

CHES RICE IS NEW PING-PONG CHAMP

Ches Rice acquired the title of “Davidson’s Ping-Pong Champion” after a severe and hard-fought battle with Al Halverstadt. As a
result, he receives the silver loving cup which has been on display in the show-window of the White Drug Co.
during the past month. Halverstadt met and defeated Arthur Mills, who in turn won over Charles Parker. All of these
last games were very exciting and aroused much interest among the students. Ches Rice emerged victorious over some twenty-odd aspirants
who started the grind about a month ago. The tournament was sponsored by the Y. M. C. A., and the
Garibaldi and Bruns Co., of Charlotte offered the cup.

SANITARY CAFE Welcomes You Always MOORESVILLE, N. C.

The desire to engage in the noblest and most useful of employments is a God-given endowment, which will almost surely
lead a man into the ministry. In the next few advertisements of this series, comparison will be made of the
nobility and usefulness of the ministry and of some other lines of human endeavor.

Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a happy and achieving life; perhaps we could help you.

Union Theological Seminary Richmond, Virginia WRITE TO B. R. LACY, Jr., D. D., PRESIDENT.

What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?
