Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN February 7, 1929

ALUMNI

Davidson College Alumni Council Will Gather For Crucial Session Monday

Advisability of Investing in Moving Picture Apparatus Will be Among Discussions

LARGER COUNCIL

Suggestion of Increased Council Membership to Include Various Representation Will Also Be Discussed

The Davidson College Alumni Association will hold one of its most important meetings of the year next Monday night in
Charlotte. The meeting has been set for 7:30 o'clock in the offices of Dr. J. P. Matheson, 6 West Seventh
Street, and all seven members of the Council have been notified. The vice-president of the General Alumni Association has been
invited, and the alumni secretary will also attend.

Mr. James C. Harper, '15, of Lenoir, principal of the schools in Lenoir, will show moving pictures of the Davidson
campus which he made during the Christmas holidays, some moving pictures of the Carolina-Davidson football game here last Home-Coming Day,
and some pictures of other campuses throughout North Carolina. This is being done with the object of determining whether it
would be wise for the Council to invest in moving picture apparatus for use in its local alumni meetings, or
whether they will recommend that the college purchase such equipment.

Another important matter for consideration is the enlargement of the Alumni Council. This body now consists of seven members, elected
by the General Alumni at its meeting each commencement. It has been proposed, however, that Davidson have a Council on
which every class would be represented, and each local alumni chapter be represented by its three officers, with a smaller
group acting as an executive committee, doing the work now accomplished by the Council of seven. This matter will be
thoroughly discussed, and a possible decision reached.

Some time will probably be devoted to a preliminary discussion of nominations for the board of trustees from the alumni
body, and consideration of officers for the ensuing year. No definite action is expected upon these until a later meeting,
however. A mail ballot will be sent out to the alumni early in April containing the nominations. This was a
new idea instituted last year, and much favorable comment was passed on the plan.

The alumni will present statistics from various institutions in North Carolina and Virginia, showing that each college or university is
going to promulgate alumni activity in a financial way. The advisability of appointing a committee to appear before the executive
committee of the board of trustees, to ask for a larger appropriation to the alumni office will be discussed, and
possible action taken.

Members of the Alumni Council are Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, president, Dr. J. P. Matheson and Dr. Oren Moore, all
of Charlotte; Hugh A. Query, of Gastonia; Dr. J. C. Rowan, of Concord, and J. C. Cobb, of Durham.

Announcement has been made that Rev. Neal Anderson, D.D., '85, of Savannah, Ga., has been selected to deliver the baccalaureate
sermon at the commencement exercises of Converse College on May 12th.

Centralization Urged

Ohio Wesleyan University—(CNA)—Plan the schedule for your college course so that it will enable you to secure a mastery of
subject matter to a considerable degree in at least three subjects. Such is the advice which Prof. A. R. Mead
of the department of education offers to Ohio Wesleyan students who are planning to do high school teaching after their
graduation.

Approximately 80 per cent of the beginning high school teachers throughout the United States teach not less than three subjects,
Dr. Mead points out. In selecting the three subjects for special study, prospective high school teachers should be careful to
select subjects which are taught in the secondary schools and which are related in nature of subject.

Alumni Marriages

Morton-True

A surprise marriage of January was that of Mr. Frank P. Morton, '23, and Miss Margaret True, both of Greensboro.
Due to a recent death in the family of the bride, the ceremony was a quiet affair, being attended only
by the immediate relatives. Mr. Morton entered Davidson from Greensboro and has spent practically all of his life in that
city. He is now manager of the O. Henry Hotel in Greensboro. They will reside at the O. Henry.

Lentz-Long

Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Lentz announce the marriage of their daughter, Gwendolyn Virginia, to Mr. Clyde Andrew Long, at
5:30 p.m., Saturday, February 2nd, at the First Presbyterian Church, Winston-Salem.

Mr. Long is a member of the class of 1927. Since leaving Davidson he has been located in Winston-Salem. Upon
their return from the honeymoon Mr. and Mrs. Long will be at home at 668 North Spring St., Winston-Salem.

New Addresses

J. A. King, '27, 172 N. Union St., Concord, Rev. W. L. Baker, '26, R. F. D., Farmville, Va. W.
G. Guille, '23, Wachovia Bank & Trust Co., Winston-Salem. Rev. W. T. Baker, '25, care First Presbyterian Church, Winston-Salem. Rev.
Carl Barth, '08, 584 Boulevard, S. E., Atlanta, Ga. Rev. Locke White, '13, Montgomery, W. Va. H. P. Miller, '14,
213 W. Kentucky, Louisville, Ky. F. H. Lindley, '26, Guilford College, N.C. Prof. J. C. Barry, '10, 17140 Ohio Ave.,
Detroit, Mich. Dr. John Walker Moore, '06, City Hospital, 323 E. Chestnut, Louisville, Ky. Dr. George W. Black, '06, 1515
Boulevard, Charlotte. D. L. Read, '22, Box 1375, Benson, Ariz. Rev. W. W. Moore, '22, Malden, W. Va. J. J.
Stockard, '24, Myelvaron Apartment Hotel, Tampa, Fla. J. B. Caldwell, '20, East Spencer. T. F. Anderson, '27, 1416 S. Third
St., Louisville, Ky. H. S. Frierson, '27, McCamey, Tex. W. D. Douglas, '28, Shannon Mills, Shannon, Ga. John R. Falls,
'28, 1723 Rhode Island Ave., N. W., Washington, D. C. W. B. Bradford, '28, 3733 Locust St., Philadelphia, Pa. W.
Z. Bradford, '24, care Graduate Hospital, 19th and Lombard Sts., Philadelphia, Pa. J. M. Rumple, '13, 18 Hayes Ave., Elizabeth,
N. J. W. C. Knight, '31, care Y. M. C. A., Durham.

CONCORD ALUMNI ASSOCIATION MET ON MONDAY NIGHT

Twenty Former Students of Concord, Kannapolis and Albemarle Gathered

CAPT. PRITCHETT TALKS

Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson and Ernest Milton Also Attended and Made Brief Remarks

Twenty Davidson College alumni, residing in Concord and towns nearby, met in the office of Mr. W. W. Flowe, '05,
in the Cabarrus Savings Bank Building, at Concord, last Monday night at 7:30 o'clock, the meeting having been called for
the principal purpose of listening to an address by Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, director of physical education at Davidson.

This was the third alumni body before which Capt. Pritchett has appeared to outline his proposal for physical education at
Davidson, and in his usual attractive manner he pointed at the advantages which would accrue from a systematized program, which
would include credit, just as the present subjects are credited to students. He pointed out the urgent need of a
building, maintaining that no effective work could be done until proper facilities were available.

Discussion of the proposal followed. Among the commenters were Dr. J. C. Rowan, '04, and Coach Younger, of Davidson. The
former asked some direct, pertinent questions regarding the proposal, and the latter gave his sanction to the idea, telling the
alumni that it would serve as a possible means of developing good athletes. Coach Tex Tilson and Ernest Milton also
made a few brief remarks.

W. W. Morris, '92, president, presided at the meeting. Others attending were P. B. Fetzer, '04; Rev. J. C. Rowan,
D.D. '04; W. W. Flowe, '05; Rev. R. S. Arrowood '13; Dr. R. M.King, 1900; Dr. I. A. Yow, '07;
Dr. D. G. Caldwell, '20; W. W. Morris, Jr., '25; H. L. Johnston, '25; N. E. Sappenfield, '26; Press Faggart,
'26; J. A. King, '27; A. M. Sparrow, '27; Geo. A. Batte, Jr., '27; R. A. Glenn, '28; all of
Concord; Rev. W. H. Goodman, '02, of Kannapolis; Vance Huneycutt, '28; and Wilson Brightwell, Jr., '30, of Albemarle.

Y. M. C. A. ACTIVE
(Continued from page 1)

Meeting of the Gillwood Church. Jim Hinderlite was in charge of the services. C. C. Orr and Frank Pilcher rendered
several selections on the violin and piano. For the last several Sundays, the “Y” has sent some man to the
Central Y. M. C. A. of Charlotte to speak to the Hi-Y club of that city. It is planned to
send someone every Sunday for the next month. Allan Frew spoke at the last meeting, his subject being the “Widow's
Mite.”

J. R. McKeldin, '21, 2050 Elmwood Ave., Buffalo, N. Y.
J. Lee Robinson, Jr., '28, 3733 Locust Ave., Philadelphia, Pa.
S. A. Burgess, '21, State Bank Building, Orlando, Fla.
Chesley Watkins, '09, 1906 Euclid Ave., Charlotte.
C. R. Wilcox, '11, 2632 Maryland Ave., Baltimore, Md.

STATIONERY
Printed and Embossed
ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS
Aubrey Brown
Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Alumni Personals

Rev. C. Rees Jenkins, '17, and Mrs. Jenkins, of Tokushima, Japan, announce the birth of a son, Arthur Simens, on
November 1, 1928. This is the second son born to Mr. and Mrs. Jenkins. He has asked that the first
one, C. R., Jr., be registered for the class of 1947, and the latest arrival for the class of 1949.

LeRoy Burney, '23, who is now a student at Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Ga., has been extended a call to
the Sugaw Creek Presbyterian Church, near Charlotte.

Wade H. Allison, Jr., '26, a senior student at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., was at Davidson Monday. This was
his first visit to the campus since his graduation.

R. M. Crosland, '28, of Charlotte, an outstanding tennis player of the southeast, is now connected with the Carolina Sporting
Goods Company, in Charlotte.

J. E. Holshouser, '25, who is studying law at the University of North Carolina, was one of the successful students
passing the recent examination of the State Bar Association.

The net profit of the Vick Chemical Company, of Greensboro, which is headed by H. S. Richardson, '06, as president,
was $1,728,605.18 during the past six months. Lunsford Richardson, '14, and C. L. Black, '04, are also connected with this
corporation.

Dr. John T. Burrus, 1900 (N. C. Medical College), formerly president of North Carolina State Medical Society, has been critically
ill at the High Point hospital with pneumonia. He has been transferred to the Mary Black Hospital in Spartanburg, S.
C.

Rev. J. L. Steele, '25, has accepted a call to the First Baptist Church at Murphy, N. C., and has
already begun his duties there. He was formerly located at Rome, Ga.

Geo. W. Mauze, '23, A. B. Williford, '26, L. M. McCutchen, '27, and Julian Lake, '28, are members of the
Union Theological Seminary basketball team.

Prof. R. A. McPheeters, '21, now connected with the University of North Carolina, has been selected by the Carolina students
as one of the favorite professors on the Chapel Hill campus.

Watt McCain, '24, is now connected with the Matheson Alkali Works, Inc., 250 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

Lee Short, '27, who has been at Serres, Greece, for the past two years, connected with the Alston Tobacco Co.,
plans to return to America late this spring for a three-month leave of absence.

Tables Turn

Easton, Pa.—(IP)—The coin slot in the public pay telephone at Lafayette College recently was left open when the phone was
installed, and as a result, all money used in making calls was returned. Not a few students took advantage of
this as soon as it became generally known, and the telephone did a thriving business in long-distance calls. The boys
called home and their girlfriends all over the country for nothing. When they returned from Thanksgiving vacation, however, they were
somewhat chagrined to learn that the telephone company had traced their calls and had taken advantage of the vacation to
distribute bills for payment. Not a few students were broke.

Have your last season's suit remodeled to the latest style. Altering and repairing to your individual taste. Come in and
look over the samples. Expert workmanship. Suits made to measure. Be convinced of our work.

A. GERSKOV
THE TAILOR AT THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.

Engagements

Newell-Williams
“Mr. and Mrs. Myron Gilbert Newell announce the engagement of their daughter, Mary Elizabeth, to Mr. B. Worth Williams, the
marriage to take place in Greensboro in the month of April.” Mr. Williams is a member of the class of
1926. After leaving here, he attended N. C. State College, and since his student days, he has been located in
Greensboro. He is connected with the Callum Tobacco Company of that city.

Cornell University—(CNA)—A new field for mitigating eye fatigue, an instrument which detects the flicker of light, has been perfected by
Professor Dedell of Cornell University. The device is called an oscilloscope. Before the eye of this instrument, what may appear
to the human eye as a steady glow of light becomes a flicker, every wave of which is recorded in
lines that may be transcribed to a phonograph or studied visually.

LEARN THE PIANO IN TEN LESSONS — TENOR-BANJO OR MANDOLIN IN FIVE LESSONS

Without nerve-racking, heart-breaking scales and exercises. You are taught to play by note in regular professional chord style. In your
very first lesson, you will be able to play a popular number by note.

Send For it on Approval

The “Hallmark Self-Instructor” is the title of this method. Eight years were required to perfect this great work. The entire
course with the necessary examination sheets is bound in one volume. The first lesson is unsealed which the student may
examine and be his own “JUDGE and JURY.” The later part of the “Hallmark Self-Instructor” is sealed. Upon the student
returning any copy of the “Hallmark Self-Instructor” with the seal unbroken, we will refund in full all money paid. This
amazing Self-Instructor will be sent anywhere. You do not need to send any money. When you receive this new method
of teaching music, deposit with the Postman the sum of ten dollars. If you are not entirely satisfied, the money
paid will be returned in full upon written request. The Publishers are anxious to place this “Self-Instructor” in the hands
of music lovers all over the country and are in a position to make an attractive proposition to agents. Send
for your copy today. Address The “Hallmark Self-Instructor” Station G, Post Office, Box 111, New York, N. Y.

When a Feller Needs a Friend
By BRIGGS

You WANT TO CROSS THE STREET, BUT ZWIS-S-SH— COMES A CAR THIS WAY— AND ZWIS-S-SH— COMES A CAR THAT WAY.
FINALLY YOU GET UP ALL YOUR COURAGE AND START ACROSS AND THEN TWO COME ALONG FROM OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS AND MEET
IN THE MIDDLE. YOU BEGIN TO COUGH— WHY DON'T YOU SMOKE OLD GOLDS, MISTER, AND NOT COUGH?

NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD
P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

---not a cough in a carload

On your Radio... OLD GOLD PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR — Paul Whiteman, King of Jazz, and his complete orchestra, broadcasts the
OLD GOLD hour every Tuesday from 9 to 10 P. M., Eastern Standard Time, over the entire network of Columbia
Broadcasting System.
