__. Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy, $1.50 the Year.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 10 A.M. Anonymous contributions will not be published.

ZEB V. LONG, JR. --------- Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL ---------------- Managing Editor

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Subscription Mgr.
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor

President
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer

THURSDAY, MAY 9, 1929

Here and There

—Goodbye for the year. Hope to see everybody again next fall and to ask your indulgence in a snappy newspaper.

—Rumors that “Red Laird” is bringing some of those schoolboys of his up to play football. Glory.

—Formal congratulations to the whole track team for winning second place in the State Meet.

—Envy noticed in the Junior Class because the Seniors will graduate from New Chambers Building after all.

—Wanted—a smashing win over High Point College Track Team this afternoon.

—Swan Song by about one hundred seniors. Shades of John Galsworthy.

—Again, attention to Mother’s Day. It is a great occasion.

TRUSTEE OF DAVIDSON

Probably at no other time in history has the attention of the student body been focused on the Board of Trustees to the extent which it is at present. For that matter, the whole Presbyterian Church, and thousands of interested parties are watching eagerly to see what action the Board will take at its next meeting here. A tremendous responsibility rests upon the shoulders of these men as they gather to select a new administrator for Davidson, and the students of the college are the most concerned body as the time for action draws near.

Davidson has had many critical times during the near century of her existence, but it seems to us that she faces the most crucial period of all at the present. The new president is coming into a field which offers challenging constructive work for a capable man, and he will have his hands full of a multitude of affairs, both mechanical and human. He will have to deal with contracts and contacts, entities which have no end of possibility for lasting creative processes. Standing on the threshold of a new day of service to mankind and to God, Davidson College calls for a strong hand and a great heart to lead her up the heights which still are untraveled.

Sentiment is strong about the campus in regard to the new president. The men are looking to the Board of Trustees to think and act with foresight, to weigh all chances, to investigate all avenues of approach to the situation, to act for the principles which will make Davidson steadfast, but progressive. Every man on the campus feels a very real interest in this coming event which will to so large an extent influence the future of the college. Years of work and association have left a deep imprint of Davidson on each life engaged in the work of the college, and so it is with concern for their Alma Mater that the students themselves await the outcome of the Board’s meeting in June. Dr. Lacy, Dr. Thompson, Frank Graham, S. Clay Williams — all names to reckon with in the final decision. Whatever happens and whoever is elected may the Board be governed in its thinking by the apt words of Dr. Hamilton McKay, President of the Alumni Association: “The new president must be a man who will make Davidson, not one whom Davidson will make.”

LOCAL SUMMER SCHOOL

Professor Fleagle states that indications point to a much greater attendance at the summer school opening here June 11 than was in evidence last year. He expects to double the enrollment, and all preparations are being made to elevate the Davidson Summer School to the high ranking of which it is capable and which it deserves in the light of Davidson College’s rating.

Summer school here should grow into a very important part of the college activity. Each year has seen growing attendance and better accommodations for the students. More classes are being offered each year, with the prospects of new ones as the demand arises. Work is being given this summer not only in regular college courses, but in methods for grade school teachers, and of course this addition will draw many teachers to Davidson for the six weeks period. Full credit on college courses is gained by six weeks’ work in the summer school. Thus students who found the going a little rough during the regular session will try to stage their comebacks. The location and natural advantages of Davidson make it especially suitable for the work of summer school. The campus here is unsurpassed in beauty, and the town, while lacking the advantages of a city, really offers an ideal environment for work of this kind. Some complaints are heard about spending the summer in Davidson because the town is “dead.” When one is unable to pass off his work during the school year it seems to us that he would do well to seek out a “dead” spot where the street cars don’t rattle so loudly or the lights shine so brightly and buckle down in earnest. Davidson will probably never grow into one of the teeming summer camps for students which exist at other institutions nearby, and in view of the college’s attitude toward a large student body, it is well that the summer school enrollment, too, be kept comparatively low. However, in the near future, we expect to see several hundred pilgrims trekking here in June for a “comeback” or step ahead as the case may be. The opportunity for a great summer school lies right here in Davidson.

DOLLAR CHASERS ONLY?

Fearful that the large number of men and women enrolled in the colleges and universities of the land will cause a decided drop in the salaries connected with “white collar” jobs a noted eastern educator is greatly worried over the future of some 800,000 collegians. If he regards the college degree as a passport to the silver aristocracy, his pessimism is justified. But is that all that a degree is good for? While it is partly true that the technical schools, the law and medical colleges do point their students toward a definite bread and butter goal, education in its broadest sense is not a thing that seeks only to raise one’s earning power.

Colleges teach not only how to make a living, but how to live. For the educated man treasures a great deal of knowledge that can never have any cash value. He makes himself familiar with the seemingly useless, yet exquisite, poetry of Shelley and Browning, the soul-stirring paintings of a Michelangelo, the philosophy of Plato and Spinoza. He learns to look at life through the eyes of others, to broaden his own narrow vision with the sweeping reflections of Carlyle and Dante. The realm of music opens up to him a new world, the majestic strains of Schubert and Wagner, whom he has been taught to appreciate, waken in his soul a response that lies dormant in the life of the uneducated man.

Education reveals and formulates an inner life, an existence happily rid of the cold clink of coin. It teaches a man the secret of happiness, and too often do we forget spiritual values in our dash for happiness. The fact that 800,000 persons are striving for an ideal ought not to worry anyone. It is indeed, one of the most encouraging tendencies of present day life—Daily Iowan.

Cosmic Chaos
By J. W. McCutchan

It would appear that the athletic cabinet of the G. O. P. is in full swing. With Stimson playing tennis every morning, Mellon talking over the megaphone, vitaphone, and other instruments, and Curtis horse-back riding after seeing his wife safely seated in Washington society, letters should soon be awarded. Preferred an “R” or a “W.” The president himself has been catching a few small fish hither and yon. It is to be surmised that some few million Democratic voters will yet have the feeling of aFish for splitting their ticket. Other governments have their troubles too, even rebel ones. A rather bashful “general” was recently arrested in this country under the charges of absconding with some $750,000.00 from the rebel Mexican army. He maintained his innocence under the plea that it was personal property. Unfortunately, however, he was also under the charge of violating an immigration act. Edward J. Tobin, of Chicago, will astound many of the younger intelligentsia with his recent statistics. He plainly states that the present adolescent generation is going to the depths of perdition, but insists that it be allowed to work out its own problems. Whether this suggestion is sincere or whether he is afraid to advise otherwise is not made clear, for his investigations were made in Cook County, Illinois, where our elders set such an upright example. More power to him. When Catherine Carr was adjudged the most beautiful and most popular girl in the Oriental Fiesta, at Ogden, Utah, she was doubtless glad that some of the Mormon customs have been frowned upon by law. Even then she is not protected from the book agents of that sect, who, when they meet an especially attractive woman, take her name and through secret processes reserve her for their particular wife in the world to be. In addition to the other affairs of national importance, Cosmic Chaos wishes to take this opportunity of thanking all its readers or of commending those who have not read it. Good judgment is better than fine riches or filthy lucre either. However, we have tried to keep from the dime novel type of literature. Like Ripley’s “Believe It or Not,” if we cannot vouch for everything that has appeared here, someone else can. Although this is not the sports column, yet we wish to congratulate Buck Marrow on the fine game he pitched against Oglethorpe, not to mention those two hits he collected. And what about Irish McInnis? Babe Ruth was a pitcher, too. While indulging in athletics, we are reminded of a tennis game we saw the other afternoon. We will not call any names, but the professor of Economics and one of the younger professors of English were engaged in a spirited contest. We were not close enough to see all of it, but from where we were it looked like the real stuff. And campus football is dead for the rest of the year. In Paris, a woman threw her husband from a fourth-story window. We understand that as he passed the other windows on his way down, several people remarked that he was out without his wife again.—Life.

THE LAST ISSUE

With this issue, The Davidsonian brings its year’s work to a close. It had been planned to publish two more copies before the end of the present college session, but unexpected complications make it advisable to discontinue the paper now. So ends the fourteenth year of service to the college. We feel that the work of the past months has been of a high quality, due to the untiring efforts of Aubrey Brown, retiring Editor-in-Chief. We feel that The Davidsonian has upheld its place on the campus and in student opinion, and has prepared itself for a continuance of that service to its institution. May the future be bright.

THE SMOKEHOUSE SAGA
By Bill Ragin (Published Weakly)

Rain is a swell thing. It makes the little flowers grow and all that manner of rot. Judging from this, the campus would soon be overgrown with lush and luxurious vegetation were it not for the painstaking efforts of our friend and benefactor who drives the Straight Eight lawn mower with such dashing skill and daring. It wouldn’t surprise me a bit to see this old school dissolve one of these days and flow gently down Route 26 to Charlotte and points south. But why not take advantage of our natural resources? Instead of wishing vainly for a swimming pool, why couldn't we station life guards at each of the dormitories, and allow the students to pursue their aquatic inclinations to their hearts’ desire in the placid depths? Yes, kiddies, the siren on the Fire House is to warn us in case of floods. Why is that deaf and dumb carpenter so frantic? Oh! he just hit his thumb with a hammer and he can’t find his pad and pencil. Then there was a relative of the famous Scotchman who fell in front of a steam roller and turned over on his side so that it wouldn't press the creases out of his pants. Cedric: “Say, do you know the difference between a red onion and a green onion?” Sigmund: “Why no.” Cedric: “Boy, you don’t know your onions.” (Editor's note: The jury gave a unanimous verdict of justifiable homicide.) It seems that our much overworked friend, Ignatz the Imbiber, was dragged into court in his usual befuddled condition. The judge gazed on him with contempt and remarked, “Isn’t this the sixth time that you’ve been here on this charge?” Ignatz sighed wearily and replied, “Shay, I thought you wash keepin’ score.” Proud Youth: “My girl is a decided blonde.” Cynic: “I was with her when she decided.” Sweet Thing: “Oh, professor, what do you think of me now that you've kissed me?” Prof: “You'll pass.” Did the cyclone damage your house very much? I dunno. I haven't found it yet.

OF DAVIDSON WEATHER
(With all due apologies to Bacon, the Davidsonian, the student body in general, or what have you?)

What's the cause for this great desire for a swimming pool at Davidson? Some people just naturally will never be satisfied. Don’t you realize that this grand old college is situated on one of the largest bodies of fresh water in the South? If you don’t believe this, just try to walk across the campus on the next rainy day. Yes, tomorrow will do very nicely.

Contemporary Thought

Realism in Debate

Debate, that chronic invalid among college activities, may be eventually rescued from the dry formalism of the debate coaches by those who are interested in subject matter first and the technique of public speaking only incidentally. Here and there students are becoming interested in forensics, not as a process of sawing the air with carefully measured gestures and of displaying a bundle of lawyer's tricks, but rather as a means for arriving at the truth of problems that vitally interest the contestants. Yale’s debate team, for instance, will travel to Porto Rico to argue the Platt Amendment with the students of the island university. The Platt Amendment is a living issue in that region and the event will no doubt attract as much attention there as a basketball game does in an American university. Another unconventional use of oratory is involved in the model leagues of nations that are held in eastern colleges each spring. On February 23 and 24 delegates from fourteen colleges of New York, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey met at Vassar to participate in such a meeting, while in April another meets at Mt. Holyoke to settle the Bolivia-Paraguay boundary dispute. What would happen if this idea were extended and the students of this hemisphere were called together in a Pan-American Congress of Students? That would be an accomplishment this generation of students might well be proud to be remembered by. The least of its effects would be the tremendous boost it gave to this new type of debate. Far more effective would it be in giving an international airing to subjects that are too often soft-pedaled in conferences between nations. We have no silly notions about the magical ability of youth to solve over a week-end the vexed questions of the world when older heads have so miserably failed. Youth is as prejudiced and provincially minded as age but it has the virtue of frankness and perhaps a greater degree of willingness to consider abstract ideals of justice rather than brute force. Certainly, we ought to try one more method of spreading good will. After having sent a “good will ambassador” out to make neighborly calls in a battleship it is not so unrealistic and romantic for The New Student to urge a conference of good will ambassadors from the colleges and universities of North and South America—The New Student.

We're Just a Lot of Smart Alecks!

“The original younger generation retired to the sidelines quite some time ago,” writes Cornell Woolrich of his own coterie, in the June College Humor. “The strange little girls that you used to see a few years ago with bushy bobs and flapping galoshes and quills stuck in their felt hats are mostly mothers now. And their boyfriends with the wide, wide trousers are busy watching the market these days. “The whole thing has boiled itself down to a tradition. The first outburst of what they love to call flaming youth was more or less spontaneous; ever since then it has been pretty much of a profession. And are we unconventional at heart? Certainly not. We're really bigger slaves to convention than the most Victorian Victorians ever were. “We go about showing off with a sort of herd courage, because we know everyone else is doing it at the same time. The pioneers among us had their share of personal courage. But that was in roto. I think it’s about time the curtain came down on our act.”

B. W. A: “Bachelor of World Affairs”—that is the all-embracing title of the new degree which the Floating University has created to crown its distinctive type of education. The ordinary B. A. and A. M. degrees are now offered, too, but the Bachelor of World Affairs will be the exclusive product of that university whose home is the billowy deep. When the student qualifies for this degree he will have gained, the Floating University believes, “sufficient background in international relations and public affairs, adequately to prepare him for United States consul or diplomatic service, or for effective work in an international corporation.” The degree is offered in a two-year or four-year program. The two-year course, for juniors and seniors, offers a thorough training in the fields of History, Government, International Relations, International Business, and Sociology, all these subjects correlated and given from the point of view of the world as a unit. To get this degree the student may take his first two years at a land university in preparation for two years of intensive work in the World Affairs division of the Floating University, or he can take the entire four years as a member of the student body on the yearly cruise.—The New Student.