. Chameleon ¢ Page Six . NOTED FRENCHMAN TO LECTURE HERE Professor Rene W. Hardre, who is brought to Davidson under the sponsorship of Le Cercle Francaise, is to speak to the students and faculty of Davidson College on Wednesday night, April 24. He is a French instructor at the North Carolina College for Women at Greensboro. The subject on which M. Hardre will speak in French is “Les de France.” Last year, M. Hardre, speaking in French, told of his life as a schoolboy in France in a very amusing and pleasing way. According to those who had the opportunity of hearing him last year, Prof. Hardre is a man of very charming personality and made a very interesting talk. Also, he brought with him a number of brilliantly colored pictures of France, among them were scenes of especial interest such as pictures of Brittany, Lorraine, Monte Carlo, and other places. France is the native country of M. Hardre and it is only recently that he has come to America to take over the chair of French at N. C. C. W. Last year he expressed himself as enjoying his visit to Davidson very much and a large number of students are expected to hear his lecture Wednesday night.

WHO’S WHO
Student Body President, C. R. Pritchett.
Vice-presidents, Thad Brock, Walter Fraley.
Secretary and Treasurer, R. F. Norton.
Y. M. C. A. President, Frank R. Brown.
Vice-presidents, Dean Rusk, John F. Preston.
Athletic Association President, T. W. Brohard.
Vice-presidents, W. B. Goodson, W. L. David.

Publications
The Davidsonian: Z. V. Long, Editor; E. H. McCall, Business Manager.
Quips and Cranks: C. M. Pratt, Editor; W. R. Hill, Business Manager.
R. F. Jarratt, Editor; E. L. Roberson, Business Manager.
“Y” Handbook: F. D. Miller, Editor; A. W. McLean, Business Manager.

Class Officers
Senior President, W. B. McGuire.
Vice-president, A. H. Whittle.
Secretary and Treasurer, W. B. Gavock.
Junior President, C. H. Goodykoontz.
Vice-president, D. S. Lafar.
Secretary and Treasurer, S. S. Wiley.
Sophomores President, D. S. King.
Vice-president, R. F. Norton.
Secretary and Treasurer, D. G. Martin.

FINALS SCHEDULE
The final arrangement for the commencement program has been made which is as follows:
June 2, Sunday (11 a.m.), Baccalaureate Sermon by Dr. J. Ross Stephenson, President of Princeton Seminary.
June 2, Sunday (8 p.m.), Sermon before “Y” by Dr. W. E. Hill, of Richmond Theological Seminary.
June 3, Monday (5 p.m.), Class Day Exercise.
June 4, Tuesday (12:15 p.m.), Annual meeting of Board of Trustees.
June 4, Tuesday (12:15 p.m.), Annual Literary Address by Dr. John Tigert, President of the University of Florida.
June 4, Tuesday (1:30 p.m.), Alumni Luncheon and annual meeting of Alumni Association.
June 4, Tuesday (5 p.m.), Reception by Faculty.
June 4, Tuesday (8 p.m.), Exercises of Literary Societies, Senior Oratorical Contest, Award of Trophies and Society Medals.
June 5, Wednesday (10 a.m.), Award of College Medals, Graduation Exercises, Announcement.

Unanimous
Wife—It is strange that men always want sons. My father was always sorry that I was not a boy.
Husband—So am I.

And What Do They Drink
“Hebe” Kellars—What kind of ears has an engine?
Prof. Fernow—I don’t know.
“Hebe”—Why engineers, of course.

Visitor—How many controls have you on that radio set?
Host—Three, my wife, my son, and my daughter.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Dr. Blakely Speaks To Ministerial Band
The Ministerial Band has always been glad to welcome as speakers at the Sunday afternoon meetings those distinguished guests who may be at the college at that particular time. On last Sunday afternoon, the speaker was Dr. Hunter Blakely of Columbia Seminary who had come to Davidson to speak at the “Y” vespers. Doctor Blakely said that he wished to talk about the ministry as a life’s work and not to present a formal address. What the ministry needs is not more men but better men. If the men in the ministry were the best men available who had given themselves to work and preparation, they could turn the world upside-down in a short while. More men are needed who will go all of the way in preparation and this is no easy job. The modern world offers a challenge to ministers to seek the best preparation. Time was when the minister was the best-educated man in the town but that day has passed. In every congregation, there are men who are as well educated if not better than the minister. Therefore, the minister’s range of knowledge cannot be too great. In his own experience, Doctor Blakely said that when he started preaching he gave out of sermon material in a very few weeks and he had to buckle down to preach to the same congregation three times a week. The minister has a closer contact with people probably than even the physician. There are the young as well as the old and the minister should have such Christ-like grace as to make the little children come to him and in so doing be able to mold their lives into upright Christian men and women. This is an age in which men are trying to think things through. Men are apt to doubt the fundamentals of faith. But even so, if it is a fine thing to preach in an age of faith, how much more glorious it is to preach in a time of doubt. It is the minister's job to lead others to the right way.

Prior to the meeting, the election of officers was held for the next term. The following were elected: F. D. Miller, President; Albert McClure, Vice-president; and R. Prince, Secretary. These men will be installed at the next meeting. They succeed T. E. Hill, President; Alex. Warren, Vice-president; and M. W. Norfleet, Secretary-treasurer.

HONORARY SOCIETY
(Continued from page 1)
W. B. McGuire, Franklin, N. C., member of the staff of Quips and Cranks, varsity debater, was Secretary of the Forensic Council, is president of next year’s Senior class, and belongs to Pi Kappa Alpha.
C. M. Pratt, of Louisville, Ky., is editor of Quips and Cranks for next year. He was a member of the staffs for the three periodical publications, and a member of Delta Pi Kappa, and Sigma Upsilon, honorary fraternities. Pratt belongs to Phi Delta Theta, social fraternity. The foregoing does not contain the complete honors of the men selected for this distinction but only gives the principal ones of each.

Dr. Francis P. Gaines, president of Wake Forest College, and prominent orator, delivered the public address in Shearer Hall, Tuesday night. Directly following the program, the new members were initiated into the Delta Circle. Closing the entire ceremonies was the banquet at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel, Davidson, to which all members of the fraternity were invited. Many of the faculty and alumni members were also in attendance.

GLEE CLUB GIVES
(Continued from page 1)
The end men were fine for the number of times they were permitted to peal forth with humor. Dick Flynn sang at different times two well-known songs, “Mammy” and “Old Black Joe.” The other end men acting with he and Stewart Meacham, interlocutor, added a bit of spice to the program. A negro employee of the express company approached his boss with the query: “Boss, what is we gwine do ’bout dat billy goat? He done et up where he gwine.”

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Mu Beta Psi Gives Enjoyable Program
Salisbury Musicians Entertain Faculty and Townspeople
Mu Beta Psi, musical fraternity, entertained 35of the faculty and townspeople at a formal musicale, which was held in the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity house on Monday, April the 8. The program was put on by the following artists, all of whom reside in Salisbury: Miss Elizabeth Sifford, a graduate of Salem College in piano and organ, who maintains a studio in Salisbury; Mr. Caldwell Cline, winner of the State Amateur, and also the South Atlantic Amateur Violin Contests, graduate of Peabody Conservatory of Music in Boston; and Mr. Glenn Hartsell, baritone soloist. Refreshments were served after the performance.

The national fraternity, Mu Beta Psi, was organized when the Davidson and N. C. State chapter united on March 20, 1929. N. C. State being the mother became Alpha chapter, and

TENNESSEE CLUB HOLDS YEAR’S LAST FEED
Rule, Close and Regan on Program

An atmosphere of sadness prevailed in Eu Hall Wednesday night as the Tennessee Club met for the last time in the year. The members seemed to be quite dejected over the fact that they would never again meet with the senior members of the Club from Tennessee. This atmosphere of sadness lasted from 9:00 p.m. to 9:10—then the eats were served. Following the program featured by drinks, fruits, creams, sandwiches, tobacco, of all varieties, concocted by C. N. Burch, a second program was prepared by Spencer McCallie. The chief feature in this program was Mr. Rule’s recitation of the time Casey didn’t get to first. This was followed by a pantomime in which Ed Close demonstrated on Sporty Regan (president), what happens in picture show galleries in Chattanooga (and they didn’t eat peanuts). The meeting broke up after the seniors failed to get exemption from dues for the night.

The meeting was on the verge of failure—Joe Gardner wasn't there.

How the Tennessee Club has within her fine ranks,
The mighty Joe Gardner,
(She winks at his pranks,
But you'll surely pardon her).
But Joe had to study,
(He had some classes;
We certainly hope
The old boy passes;
But things look muddy
When Joe has to study).
But this Tennessee feed
Turned out right pleasant,
In spite of the fact
That Joe wasn't present.

Now Muse won't you sing
About the redoubtable Major Mac King?
(He's little but stout, able—
Ready for any old thing.)
Off to a corner,
In the style of Jack Horner,
Some boys he gathered round,
And with shoulder to shoulder,
They sang of some town,
Saying it took two states to hold her.

April 25, 1929

She—I can’t marry you; I have a clause in my contract.
He—That’s all right. My father’s a doctor.

Prof. Betty—I went home to take care of all the little incidentals.
Prof. Sams—Why I didn’t know you were married.

Scottish National Anthem: “The Best Things In Life Are Free.”

Professor Dunlap says he took out a little “chicken,” but when he started to “talk turkey” to her, she flew the “coop.”

When a boy falls from grace it is generally through a little miss understanding.

Collegiate Me—I wish I had enough money to get married.
She (Hopefully)—What would you do?
He—Buy a coonskin.

How did Jack get that sore jaw?
A girl cracked a smile.
Well? It was his smile.

What's that on your neck?
A mole.
Well, it’s walking.

Tourist—I clearly had the right of way when this man ran into me, and yet you say that I was to blame.
Cop—You certainly were.
Tourist—Why?
Cop—Because his father is mayor, his brother is chief of police, and I go with his sister.

Bent But Not Yet Broke

If you had five dollars in your pocket what would you do?
Broken—I'd think I had somebody else’s pants on.

Hey! Don’t spit on the floor!
What’s-a matter—Floor leak?

Upon the asylum roof a few repairs were being carried out by a local builder who had asked for one of the inmates to assist him in a little job. All went well until lunch time, when, as the clock struck one, the builder’s assistant clutched him round the neck and giving a terrible laugh, said: “Come on, let’s jump off.” The builder was frightened out of his life, but suddenly he had an inspiration. “Oh rats,” he replied. “Anybody could do that. Come down and let's jump up.”

Watermark

Dear Old Lady—Captain, would you please help me find my stateroom?
Captain—Have you forgotten what number it is?
D. O. L.—Yes, but I'll know it if I see it again, because there was a lighthouse just outside the window.

Again we have the one about a Scotchman who was invited to a party and told that each guest was to bring something. He brought his relatives.

Oh! What are these tickets I found in my husband’s pocket?
Your husband is an archaeologist. These tickets are evidences of a lost race.

All that is human must retrograde if it does not advance.

CLEARANCE SALE
Thrifty buyers will find many bargains offered here during this ten day Sale... Some articles going at half price
COME EARLY AND HAVE FIRST CHOICE
Sale Starts Saturday April 27th
W.S. HENDERSON
Davidson, N. C.

Be sure your “principles” are not prejudices.

TOWN NEWS

Misses Mary and Lizzie Young are on a motor trip in Virginia with their aunt, Mrs. Allison, of Concord.

Miss Martha Hamilton has been here for about a week because of the serious illness of her father.

Miss Sophie Richards had as her guest the past week-end Miss Hunter from Mocksville.

Miss Nina Holt White spent the weekend with her mother here in Davidson.

Miss Letitia Currie visited friends in Salisbury last weekend.

A moving picture show was given Monday morning for the benefit of the Civic League.

Teacher: “Yes, it was Patrick Henry who said, ‘Give me liberty,’ but what is the rest of the sentence?” (No answer.) “Come, come, you boys ought to know that. He said, ‘Give me liberty or—”
Periodical Dealer’s Son: “Or give me my nickel back.”

Beats the Professor

We've just heard of an old fellow who was so absent minded that he poured his maple syrup down his back and scratched his waffles.

Post Graduate Literature

College Senior: “What would you advise me to read after my graduation?”
English Professor: “The help wanted column.”

Forewarned

Mrs. Youngbride: “I’m going to cook dinner today by myself. What would you like, dear.”
Hubby: “Er—crackers and cheese, I guess.”

Apropos

Skinner: “What steps would you take if you saw a lion on the campus?”
Staples: “Long ones.”

Overestimated

Co: “I've just had my face lifted.”
Ed: “Nonsense, who'd steal such a thing?”

Heard at the Dance

He: “My shoes are killing my feet.”
She: “They're killing mine too.”

New Version

“Mrs. Brown is not in.”
“May I leave my card?”
“Never mind she saw who it is.”

English Again

Jones: “There’s the Prince of Wales’ new horse, Dandruff.”
Thweatt: “Why Dandruff?”
Jones: “Because he makes the hair fall.”

He who does not know how to grant a favor has no right to seek one.

The Ladder of Success is usually a step ladder.

To correct an existing evil is better than fearing an evil that does not exist.

What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?

ANSWER NO. 15

Statecraft has a mighty appeal. To steer the ship of state is a great work. But statecraft has always failed when it lost its spiritual vision. Would it not be better to be a minister and cultivate spiritual vision in people and in their statesmen than to be a statesman?

Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a happy and achieving life; perhaps we could help you.

Union Theological Seminary

STATIONERY
Printed and Embossed
ENGRAVED PERSONAL CARDS
Aubrey Brown
Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.