HEAR MACDOUGALL TOMORROW NIGHT 8 O'CLOCK

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

PULL FOR THE TRACK TEAM

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 25, 1929 No. 26

Omicron Delta Kappa Taps Prominent Men

DR. WILLIAM MACDOUGALL TO SPEAK IN SHEARER TOMORROW NIGHT

PROF. PSYCHOLOGY DUKE UNIVERSITY FOR THREE YEARS

Accepted by Many as Greatest Authority on Subject

AUTHOR OF NINE BOOKS

Was Major in Royal Medical Corps of British Army During World War

Professor William MacDougall, who is now head of the Psychological department of Duke University will lecture at Shearer Hall on Friday night at 8 P. M. The public is cordially invited to attend his lecture at this time. He will also attend the Psychology classes on Saturday, and those students who do not have conflicts with other academic duties are welcome.

Dr. MacDougall is nationally known and is highly in demand throughout the country. Just previous to accepting the professorship at Duke, he was professor of Psychology at Harvard University, having gone there in 1920. He was formerly reader of mental Philosophy and fellow of Corpus Christi College in the University of Oxford.

This distinguished man was born in Lancaster and received his education at Owens College, Manchester; Cambridge University; St. Thomas's Hospital, London. He was a fellow of St. John’s College, Cambridge in 1898, and was Reader in University College, London in 1920. During the World War, he was an outstanding figure. He was Major in the Royal Army Medical Corps in 1915. During the World War Dr. MacDougall made some very interesting studies, such as medical studies on shell-shocked and gas victims. He also travelled extensively, having spent many years in Borneo, where he made a very interesting study of the civilized natives. It was not until after the World War that Dr. MacDougall came over to this country, but in this short stay in America, the leading scholars of the country learned to respect and admire this man of immense potentialities. He is a widely read man, and is a man of a variety of interesting experiences in the different countries of the world. He is rated as one of the best Psychologists in the world and by some as the greatest authority on that subject. Some ten books have been written by this man dealing with various Psychological subjects. They are namely, “Introductions to Social Psychology”; “Body and Mind”; Pagan Tribes of Borneo; “The Group Mind”; “Material Welfare and National Decay”; “Outline of Psychology”; “Ethics and Some Modern World Problems”; “Character and the Conduct of Life”; “Outline of Abnormal Psychology”. These are works of high repute, the latter being used at present by the psychological department of Davidson College.

Duke holds Dr. MacDougall in very high esteem, he is well loved by all the faculty and students, and is said to be one of the most popular members of the faculty of that college. Davidson is proud to welcome such a learned man to our college and considers it a great privilege to attend the lecture.

Columbia Seminary Entertains Locals

While in Atlanta competing in the Tech Relays, the Davidson track men were guests at the Columbia Theological Seminary, where they were most pleasantly entertained. They were met at the train and taken out to the Seminary in cars, and were shown over the beautiful new campus, after which they were assigned rooms in one of the dormitories. Friday night the Wildcats were guests at a reception given by the Juniors. Every courtesy possible was shown them. Special meals were prepared and cars were furnished them during the entire time they were there.

JARRATT ELECTED AS PRESIDENT OF COLLEGIATE PRESS

Editor of “Chameleon” Highly Honored as Pratt Retires From Vice-Presidency

Robert F. Jarrett, editor of the Chameleon, was elected president of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association in the final business session Saturday April 21, of the seventeenth semi-annual meeting held in Greensboro. William Dixon, of N. C. State College, was made vice-president, Margaret Blanton, of Queens College, second vice-president, Eleanor Covington, of Meredith College, secretary, and Garland MacPherson, of Carolina, treasurer. C. M. Pratt retired as second vice-president of the association.

Jarrett has distinguished himself on the campus and elsewhere as a journalist. He is a member of Delta Pi Kappa, wearer of the Golden Quill, a former managing editor of the Davidsonian, editor of the Chameleon, previous assistant editor, member of Sigma Upsilon, and is a member of the Reporters Club. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

Representatives of the Davidson publications were J. B. Black, A. N. Brown, J. R. Covington, R. Jarrett, E. H. McCall, and C. M. Pratt. The convention extended through three days, April 18th, 19th and 20th. The chief event of Saturday's session was the talk of Louis Graves, editor-in-chief of the Chapel Hill weekly. His talk centered around practical details in the management and operation of country weeklies. On the same day, discussion groups met during the morning under the leadership of delegates representing the different types of student publications. The “Newspaper Editors” discussion was led by A. N. Brown, editor of the Davidsonian for 1928-29. At the second business session, Lenoir-Rhyne was chosen as the point of the next semi-annual meeting, which will be in the fall, officers were elected, and the prize winners were announced. Prize winners were the Duke “Chronicle”, first, and the N. C. C. W. “Carolinian”, second.

NEW BUILDING TO HAVE LARGE ORGAN

The $20,000 three manual Skinner pipe organ which is to be placed in the auditorium of the new Chambers building under construction, Dr. W. J. Martin announced recently. This organ, which is to be designed and built especially for the new auditorium, on account of the time required to construct one of this size will not be completed in time for the commencement this spring. This college is to use the new building for its ninety-third commencement exercises.

Besides the usual stops on an organ of this type, the organ ordered for the auditorium will have chimes and is so constructed that the harp may be added at any time. The Skinner organ was chosen on the advice of experts in this field, but only after a very thorough investigation had been made by the committee appointed to select the organ for the auditorium. The Skinner Organ Mfg. Co. is recognized by all experts to be one of the leading manufacturers of pipe organs in the United States. Officials of the college consider the school very fortunate in being able to purchase an organ of this size and cost. There are few colleges in the South who have an instrument that will compare with this one. It was found necessary to procure an organ which would equal the new auditorium in magnificence and beauty therefore one of the best organs obtainable was bought.

Present Seven Men Honorary News Pin

Journalists Receive Token of Activity on School Publications

At a recent meeting of the retiring managing editors of the Davidsonian and the president of the Reporters Club, wearers of the Golden Quill were elected. The men awarded the Golden Quill for the length and quality of service on the Davidsonian were: D. P. Anderson, J. L. Brown, J. B. Black, J. R. Graham, Zeb Long, J. W. McCutchen, and S. S. Wiley. The award of the Golden Quill is designed to reward those who have given long and faithful service to the Davidsonian and at no time can the number exceed ten, Seniors not counting after the spring holidays of their senior year. Present wearers of the Golden Quill include C. M. Pratt, R. F. Jarratt, F. D. Miller, and Ned Heefner, whose election was automatic as president of the Reporters Club. Retiring seniors are: W. H. Bailey, A. N. Brown, J. L. Ely, R. C. Grady, C. Lake, J. B. Moriarty, W. K. McLean, and L. C. Wadsworth.

Editor of Handbook Appoints His Staff

N. R. Pritchett, Re- McLean Chosen as Business Manager of the Publication

F. D. Miller, editor of the “Wildcat Handbook”, a booklet compiled annually by the Davidson Y. M. C. A, and containing a composite collection of interesting facts concerning Davidson College, has recently appointed his staff of contributing editors and work on it will begin at once. The information contained in this publication is of particular interest and importance to the incoming freshman class and plans are to have the Handbook off press and mailed out to the incoming students by the first of August. The publication this year will be divided into six books with each dealing with a particular phase of college life. S. S. Wiley, Y. M. C. A.; J. B. Black, Jr., Student Activities; H. M. Moffett, Jr., Fraternities; P. R. Alderman, Athletics; M. W. McCutchan has been appointed to contribute material to the Davidson section.

Davidson Debaters Lose Last Contest

Birmingham Southern College Closes Forensic Season at Davidson

In the last debate in Davidson's forensic season, Ted Hightower and Elbert Wallace of Birmingham Southern defeated Ellis Marsh and Carl Pritchett, Wildcat debaters, last Friday night. Davidson upheld the negative side of the question, “Resolved that the present system of trial by jury should be substituted by a tribunal of three or five judges”. The Birmingham team was on a trip through North Carolina; they debated at N. C. State College and Duke University on the same trip.

Both men are prominent on the Birmingham Southern campus. Both are proficient in oratory; Hightower, who is from Goshen, Ala., is interested in Y. M. C. A. work and Wallace from Albuquerque, New Mexico is connected with literary lines.

Unlike all other debaters whom Davidson met this year, the Birmingham men presented a detailed plan for which the Wildcat debaters were totally unprepared. There was also considerable difference of opinion as to the definition of a jurist, the Davidson men holding that they were judges, while their opponents said that they were simply jurors versed in the law. Next year there will be a return debate with Birmingham Southern, at which time the Davidson team will go to Birmingham.

DR. BLAKELY SPEAKS AT VESPER SERVICE

Dr. Hunter G. Blakely, professor of New Testament Literature and Exegesis at Columbia Theological Seminary, was the speaker at the vesper service on Sunday night. Dr. Blakely is a man of wide experience and learning, and his address was greatly appreciated by all who heard him.Norfleet, Military and Yells. A.W. McLean has been chosen as Business manager of the publication.

Hartsell Is Winner In Fresh Oratorical

Before a large crowd on Monday night, April 22, J. S. W. Hartsell at Bost’s Mills, N.C., won the Freshman Oratorical Contest in Shearer Hall. His subject for the evening was “America’s Uncrowned Queen.” A handsome medal will be awarded to the winner. Hartsell’s speech was a tribute to his mother or rather to the mother of every boy in America. There was no question as to the superiority of Hartsell’s speech, although the speeches were exceptionally good. He received the unanimous vote of the judges. The judges were: Professors Moore, Davis, and Murray Christian. Those taking part in the contest and their subjects are as follows: T. M. Lemly, George Pardington, “Duty of a Voter”; Roger P. Enloe, “Service”; J. S. W. Hartsell, “America’s Uncrowned Queen.”

Davidson Profs To Do Graduate Work

Several Plan to Study in Foreign Schools

Graduate work is to be carried on by a large number of faculty members this summer. Several professors expect to go abroad, while others will attend large summer schools in various parts of the country. Among those planning to go abroad during the summer are Professor Goldiere, who will continue his study of the French language in France; Doctor Sentelle, who leaves the latter part of May for an extended tour of Palestine; and Professor Fleagle, instructor in Spanish, who intends to spend the summer months in Cuba. Those of the faculty not going abroad, but who plan to attend summer schools are Professors Blythe, at Middlebury; Bailey, at Johns Hopkins; and Lothery, at the University of Chicago. Professor Blythe has obtained a leave of absence for the session of 1929-30 in order to continue his study of Spanish in Spain. The only change in the personnel of the faculty for the coming year will be in the return of Professor Schenk, popular instructor in Bible, who has been at Yale this year.

Magazine Out

The final edition of the “Chameleon” will be issued tomorrow. It will consist of short stories, poems, and a rhymed satiric criticism, which is published anonymously on the various contributors of the magazine. The new writers for the publication are E. H. Clarke, W. F. Gaffney, and G. T. Preer. The staff has put forth unusually great efforts to make this edition the best of the year.

DEPUTATIONS SENT TO N. C. CHURCHES

Sunday Services Conducted by Davidson Men in Greensboro

During the last weekend, a “Y” deputation team of eleven Davidson men conducted Sunday services in several small churches in the outer district of Greensboro. After the arrival at Greensboro, the deputation team took charge of a boy's field meet held during the afternoon Saturday. Following this, the deputation team was entertained at a banquet given by Mr. Arnold, in charge of the Y. M. C. A. work there. During the Sunday School exercises in the morning, Z. V. Long spoke at the Men's Bible Class of Buffalo Presbyterian Church. Mac King was in charge of the morning church service here, while J. W. Melton delivered a very interesting and inspiring message. After the talk, Zeb Long led in prayer. During the service, C. C. Orr rendered a violin solo and George Pardington sung. John Melton delivered a talk before the Men's Bible Class of the Proximity Methodist Church; C. H. Mauzy took charge of the White Oak Methodist Bible Class; and J. R. Covington conducted the Men’s Class of the White Oak Baptist Church. The principal night service was held at the Proximity Methodist Church, with John Melton conducting the worship and Monroe Gilmour being the speaker. Following are the names of those who composed the deputation: Gilmour, A. N. Myers, C. H. Mauzy, W. C. Archie, P. B. Fry, C. C. Orr, M. M. King, Z. V. Long, J. W. Melton, J. R. Covington, and G. P. Pardington.

GLEE CLUB GIVES BENEFIT PROGRAM

The Davidson College Glee Club and Orchestra, presenting their final program of the school year, entertained for the benefit of new uniforms. The program, given in Shearer Hall last Friday night, April 10, consisted of a number of vocal solos mingled with instrumental music. The glee club singing a few of their numbers used on the recent trip into South Carolina was good. “A Brown Bird Singing” was perhaps the best number on the chorus program. A saw novelty played by Jack Ramseur brought the audience to much applause. He entertained with two different well-known melodies. His ability to make music come from a well-rusted saw was marveled at by quite a number of the townsfolk and students. The Sunnyland Serenaders, playing before the school audience for the first time since Junior Speaking, gave the only life to the program that could be found. Without the orchestra and a number of solos, there would have been little to entertain. The jazz rendered by the orchestra was fine, especially “Tiger Rag” and “Sluefoot”.

(Continued on page 6)

HONORARY SOCIETY HOLDS EXERCISES TUESDAY MORNING

Total of Thirteen Receive Bids to Organization

DR. MACCONNELL SPEAKS

Evening Address by Dr. Gaines and Banquet at Hotel Conclude Semi-Annual Program

Thirteen students from the Senior and Junior classes were “tapped” at chapel exercises, Tuesday morning, by the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity. In one of the most impressive ceremonies known to Davidson, and a feature of the spring calendar, the men who had been chosen for their qualities of leadership were unknown until some member of the fraternity chapter had gone out in the student body and “tapped” them. M. M. King, president of the chapter here, presided during the exercises. After he had taken the chair, Dr. J. M. MacConnell, professor of History and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, briefly addressed the students, telling of the purposes and object of the fraternity, and paying a tribute to both members and initiates. Immediately following his talk, the president wielded the gavel and an older member of the Circle arose, went into the student body and “tapped” his man. The selected student arose and followed his “tapper” to the platform, where he was given a written invitation to join, and the colors of the organization were pinned upon him. The procedure continued until all of the thirteen men were on the platform.

Seven Seniors were “bid” to the local Circle. They were: R. O. Flinn, of Atlanta, Ga., wearer of the “D”, varsity football, varsity track, Captain of Company “A”, and prominent in literary circles. Flinn is a member of Kappa Alpha, social fraternity. W. L. Dumas, Jr., Talladega, Ala., is Business Manager of Quips and Cranks, on the track squad, a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and belongs to Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity. W. Pritchett, from Atlanta, Ga., is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and Eta Sigma Phi, honorary fraternities, and was editor of the Wildcat Handbook for the past year. H. Mauzey, Jr., of Harrisonburg, Va., was Football Manager for the past year, wearer of the “D” and a member of Pi Kappa Alpha. Fred A. Ratchford, of Gastonia, is a wearer of the “D” in baseball, and belongs to Kappa Sigma, social fraternity. W. M. Powell, from Little Rock, Ark., is business manager of the Davidsonian, prominent in Y. M. C. A. and Student body work, and is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. G. H. Green, of Mount Berry, Ga., member of the staff of Quips and Cranks, and First Lieutenant of the Cadet Corps, belongs to Kappa Sigma fraternity.

Six Juniors were initiated into the fraternity, being acknowledged as leaders on the campus for the coming year. Their names follow: Carl R. Pritchett, of Reidsville, is the newly elected president of the Student Body, ex-captain of Basketball, wearer of the “D”, prominent in Student Body and “Y” work. F. B. Brown, from Greensboro, the newly chosen president of the Y. M. C. A., is an outstanding man on the campus, wearer of the “D”, varsity wrestling, and is an honor student. Z. V. Long, of Statesville, editor of the Davidsonian, member of the “Y” cabinet, assistant manager of football, is a member of Delta Pi Kappa, and Sigma Upsilon, honorary fraternities, and Pi Kappa Alpha, social fraternity. He was president of the Junior class. T. W. Breberd, from Grafton, W. Va., is a wearer of the “D”, varsity football, track, and wrestling, and was recently elected President of the Athletic Association. He belongs to Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity.

(Continued on page 6)