February 28, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BASEBALL PRACTICE GETS UNDER WAY.

CAT TRAX
As They Follow the Red and Black
By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

It’s all over now and not much use talking about the past, but we would like to have a little
more to say about the basketball season than we actually have. It is very hard to figure just why the
team went down so much at the end of the schedule. We are confident that Davidson’s team had ability enough
to handle any of these state teams around here, and when you know a thing like that it’s mighty hard
to swallow such defeats as we experienced last week. Carolina came out like a meteor here at the last and
undoubtedly has a powerful team, but the idea of the Tar Heels handing the Wildcats a 45 to 7 licking
is absolutely inconceivable. We would have bet our last dollar that it couldn’t happen. Duke didn’t surprise us much, but
we sort of figured that the Cats would pull together and wallop State.

That Carolina team can never be left out of the final figuring. They started the season in poor style, and
seemed to have no prospects of a championship contender. Now they are a very serious threat to any team in
the conference, and we won't be at all surprised to see the Heels cop the championship, though they have a
rough road ahead if they do. The Washington and Lee Generals are big favorites, and we rather side with them.
Tech and Mississippi Aggies are sure to make plenty of trouble before it’s all over.

This thing of picking an all-state team for the year is going to be about as hard as ever. There
is really no man in the state who has cinched a place, in our estimation, unless it is Frank Goodwin,
State’s gigantic center, and he has good competition in Croson of Duke. Al Dowtin’s prolonged absence from the Wake Forest
line-up will hurt his chances some, but he will still receive due consideration, with the chances good of his sewing
up a berth at forward. Satterfield, of Carolina, Young, of State, and Pritchett and Calhoun, of Davidson, are all due
their reward. Brown, Carolina, Farley, Duke, Good and Johnston, of Davidson have all had their good spots. Yes, sir, when
we pick our team next week we'll have finished a hard job.

Buck Marrow is bidding fair to develop into Davidson’s savior as a heavyweight wrestler. Not since the days of the
Huntersville Terror, Harry Vance, has the squad had a man who was big enough to swap on even terms with
opponents. The way in which Buck got rid of his men in the State and Duke matches looks promising for
next year.

This is perhaps the slowest sport season of the entire year. For three weeks there will be little actual varsity
competition. All teams will be rounding into form and with the first of April all will blossom forth at once,
keeping the most ardent fan busy to hold the pace of seeing all in action.

Heath Whittle stepped out up at Virginia's indoor meet. Harry Flippen, the best bet of the Cavaliers, beat him by
a hands breadth in the finals after Heath had shown his heels to all competition in the preliminaries. We expect
this Georgia boy to show the home folks something when he goes down for the Tech Relays next month.

Captain Fred Ratchford and his diamond mates are determined to pull an old-time jubilee this spring, and the way they
are going after that apple in early practice bodes no good for teams on the Wildcat schedule. No foolin’, prospects
look good. Mighty glad to see a game with Cornell on that old card.

Sampson,” said a nearby Philistine. “I see you have a haircut.” “Yes,” replied Sampson, “that’s my weakness now.”—Exchange.

“How’s your wife coming along with her driving?” “She took a turn for the worst last week.” —Life.

To A Close
Davidson Men Slump on Last Swing Through Big Five Territory
DROP THREE GAMES
Carolina, Duke, N. C. State Win Over Cats—Locals Tighten Up Against Terrors and Blue Devils

The Davidson Wildcat basketball team invaded the strongholds of Duke, Carolina, and N. C. State last week and dropped an
encounter to each team. The Duke and State games were tight affairs throughout, although the Cats finally ended up on
the short end of the score, but the Tar Heels administered a severe drubbing to the Monkmen. The Cats playing
ten games in thirteen days, seemed to have gone stale, and their play was away off form, especially in the
game with Carolina.

Davidson took Duke Thursday night at Durham. They were unable to keep pace with the lengthy Croson and his mates
and came out on the short end of a 33 to 25 count. The Wildcats fought them all the way
but were unable to stop Croson. However, all his other teammates were so closely guarded that none succeeded in getting
more than four points. Croson was high-point man of the contest, looping in 17 points. Captain Pritchett, of the Wildcats,
pushed him to hold his lead, however, he getting 13 points to double the total turned in by his other
teammates.

The Wildcats moved on to Chapel Hill Friday and received the worst drubbing of the season at the hands of
Carolina. The Cats game was off standard, and they were so closely guarded that they succeeded in getting only two
field goals. The final count was 45 to seven in favor of the Phantoms. Satterfield, scoring star of the Heels,
was high point man of the game, getting 14 points. Marpet and Hackney each got more than the combined total
of the Wildcats, the former getting nine and the latter eight. For the Wildcats the scoring was all done by
Calhoun, who got four points, and by Goodson, who got three.

The Wildcats finished up the season at Raleigh, meeting the N. C. State Terrors. The Cats seemed to have recovered
from their malady of the preceding night and turned in a game that they could be proud of. The score
at the half was 22 to 11 in favor of the Terrors, but the Wildcats opened up the next period
with a rush that carried them to within three points of the State five, holding them scoreless for eight minutes
of the period. However, the Wolfpack again started their scoring and finished the game with the score 30 to 22
in their favor. Goodwin of State put enough balls through the hoop to give him fifteen points and high point
honors. Captain Pritchett, of Davidson, recovered his eye for the basket which he had lost in the game with Carolina
and put in ten points to lead the Wildcats' scoring.

Box scores and lineups of the games follow:

Davidson-Duke
Davidson fg ft tp
Pritchett 5 3 13
Calhoun 2 0 4
Rusk 1 0 2
Shepherd 0 0 0
Johnston 1 0 2
Goodson 1 0 2
Wilson 0 0 0
Totals 10 3 23

(Continued on page 6)

My, you need a haircut. Stop at Norton Bros. and get a real College haircut. He has three real barbers.

NORTON BROS.
in Postoffice block—
Three first-class workmen

Wildcats Bring Season To A Close With Three Day Trip Through State

Cat Diamond Stars In Initial Workouts
Early Practice Gives Bright Prospects for Season

This week saw regular baseball practice begin and every day there hasbeen a light practice. Setting-up exercises for 15 minutes
to loosen up stiff muscles, then pep games, followed by a short infield practice, then two laps around the track.
The pitchers are using the Fungo to loosen up their arm and shoulder muscles, while the outfielders are snagging flies.
Next Wednesday Younger will start batting practice, then will come the grind until the first game which comes on March
22 with Oak Ridge. There is some possibility of getting a game on March 21 with Oak but nothing definite
yet. The team takes a Virginia trip this year as heretofore, and will play such schools as V. M. I.
(two games), Washington and Lee, V. P. I., and the University of Virginia. Games are also scheduled with Springfield (Mass.)
College at Davidson, and Cornell University at Greensboro, Oglethorpe College (Atlanta) at Davidson, and the schools of this state.

For catchers, there is promising material in Armfield and Gladstone. Pitching staff, from Thompson and Marrow of last year's Fresh
team; Meadows, Kugler, and McInnis, letter men, and Henderson of last year's squad. First base will be held down by
the best man from these: Crawford, Littlejohn, or Goodson. For the other infield positions there are Goodson, Proctor, Marks, and
McMillan. Outfield, Captain Ratchford, who will probably take the place left vacant by the graduation of Hal Johnson (center field),
“Whiz” Miller, Covington. The Davidson team is stepping out in the best uniforms ever worn by a Davidson College baseball
team.

Wake Forest Demons Succumb Before Fast Play of D. C. Cagers
Baptists Are No Match For Wildcats Increasing Speed
LAST HOME GAME
Pritchett and Scarboro Show Way for Respective Fives—Final Half Rough and Slow—Dowtin Out

Wake Forest’s Deacons proved to be no match for Monk Younger’s Wildcats and the Baptists were forced to swallow another
defeat in the Big by the count of 38 to 25. A fairly large crowd of fans witnessed the clash
which was played in the local gymnasium Wednesday night the 13th. For a few minutes the visitors played the Cats
on more or less equal terms, and halfway through the first period the count was knotted at 10 all. The
Wildcats, who had played sluggishly up to this point, took on new life and began to show a few baskets
for their care. Pritchett was doing some nice shooting. The close guarding of the Baptists kept the ball away from
the goal a good part of the time, but, at odd moments, some red jersey would streak down the floor
to sink a crip shot, and tactics like this allowed the jungaleers to lead the Deacons by some eleven points
at half time. The final half was slow and rough, lacking any element of the spectacular. Scarboro’s eye for the
hoop kept his team in respectable distance, but the Wildcats' lead was never threatened. Captain Pritchett led his team with
twelve points, but he was matched by the Baptist’s big gun, Scarboro, who also piled up an even dozen markers.

Davidson is stepping out in the best uniforms ever worn by a Davidson College baseball team. White, with a dark
stripe, a black cap with a red “D” and red button, “Davidson,” in a semicircle of black letters across the
shirt front, with a black “D” in a diamond on the sleeve of the shirt. Stockings, white, with a red
and black stripe. This uniform is the best that is put out by Spalding. The Fresh team will wear the
same uniforms which were worn by last year's varsity.

Al Dowtin, captain and high point man for the Deacon crew, was missing Wednesday night, but his presence could hardly
have turned the tide to victory. Lineup and summary:

Wake Forest fg fp tp
Hutchins 0 0 0
Scarboro 5 2 12
Hough, f 1 0 2
Jones 0 0 0
Leaves 0 0 0
Paschal 1 0 2
McBane 1 0 2
Urciolo 0 0 0
Totals 8 5 25

Davidson fg fp tp
Pritchett 4 4 12
Garrison 3 2 8
Shepherd 0 0 0
Crawford 0 0 0
Rusk 1 0 2
Wilkinson 0 0 0
Johnston 0 0 0
Goodson 1 0 2
McDougald 0 0 0
Proctor 0 0 0
Totals 9 10 38

Wildcat Trackmen Place in Va. Meet
Whittle Beaten in Close Finish by Flippen of Virginia

The Wildcat track men won a second and third place in the indoor meet at the University of Virginia February
23. In the fifty-yard hurdles, Whittle, Davidson star, was nosed out at the tape by Flippen of Virginia in a
record-breaking performance. Flippen was clocked for the four hurdles in six flat. In the pound shot event, Leftwich, of Davidson,
took third place. One of his heaves measured 42 feet, seven and one-half inches but was disqualified on a fault.
Forty-two feet, six inches carried off the event. Davidson was represented in the meet by Whittle, hurdles; Leftwich, shot; Dumas
and Gardner, high jump, and Lafferty, half-mile. The University of Virginia team piled up the most points for the day
with William and Mary second.

Wildkitten Matmen Defeat Oak Ridge
Cadets Bow to Count of 20-10

Friday, February 21, saw the Freshmen from Davidson trounce some invading cadets from Oak Ridge Institute by a score of
twenty to ten. The Davidson grapplers showed up well, losing only two matches and one of them due to an
injury to White. Conway was the big noise; he threw his man before the latter knew what was going on.
Humphreys had a fairly easy time getting a time advantage on his man and was never in danger. Houston and
Christenbury, 125 and 135 pounds respectively, both won on time. White was wrestling in the hundred and forty-five pound class,
but got his forehead cut and was withdrawn from the match. McKinney and Raker won their matches on time and
Ashcraft was thrown by a man who outweighed him by twenty pounds. Ashcraft's shoulder was injured in the contest. The
Oak Ridge men were well coached, but the Fresh were a little older and stronger, and had little trouble.

“DRUGS” “Prescriptions”
Make Our Store Your Store
A COMPLETE DRUG STORE IN A GOOD TOWN
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
"SODA" “Drug Sundries”

“If the cougher in the 4th row will come to the stage door... there’s a carton of Old Golds waiting
for him!”
W. C. (SIGNED) FIELDS
Comedian extraordinary featured in the newest edition of the “Vanities.”

“Of course, I’ve never said the above! But how I’ve been tempted to, when a heavy bass whoop or a
shrill soprano bark has drowned out my best wise-crack.

“But it isn’t good cricket to publicly embarrass a cougher. He isn’t barking on purpose. He needs quiet, friendly counsel.
He should, in confidence, be told to smoke OLD GOLDs.

“You’ll enjoy the show better... and so will I... if we can just get this tip over to him. For,
from my own experience with this smooth and throat-easy cigarette, I don’t believe there’s a cough in a capacity house-ful
of them.”

Why not a cough carload? OLD GOLD cigarettes are blended from HEART-LEAF tobacco, the finest Nature grows... Selected for silkiness
and ripeness from the heart of the tobacco plant... Aged and mellowed extra long in a temperature of mid-July sunshine
to ensure that honey-like smoothness.

On your Radio... OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR
Paul Whiteman, King of Jazz, with his complete orchestra, broadcasts the OLD GOLD hour every Tuesday, from 9 to 10
P. M., Eastern Standard Time, over the entire network of Columbia Broadcasting System.

Eat a chocolate... light an Old Gold... and enjoy both!
P. Lorillard Co.
