JUNIOR 30 ISSUE THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON OLD TICKETS FOR RAINBOW REVUE, STILL GOOD Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE,
DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 22, 1929 No. 22 STUDENT BODY ELECTION END WITH CHOOSING OF Y.M.C.A. AND DAVIDSONIAN HEADS BROWN
IS CHOSEN PRESIDENT OF “Y” Seven Men Nominated for President, Eight for Vice-President INSTALLATION IN APRIL Dean Rusk and John
Preston Chosen as Vice-Presidents After Four Ballots Y. M. C. A. officers for the 1929-30 team as elected in the
recent balloting are: President, Frank Reid Brown; vice-presidents, Dean Rusk and John F. Preston. Balloting was begun Thursday, March 14th,
with the following men nominated for offices: For president, A. N. Frew, R. M. Christian, R. T. Nunan, F. D.
Miller, W. G. McGavock, Z. V. Long; for vice-presidents, J. A. Jones, S. S. Wiley, A. B. McClure, C. N.
Burch, Dean Rusk, N. W. Norfleet, A. W. McLean, and J. F. Preston. On the first ballot for president all
the nominees were eliminated but Z. V. Long and F. R. Brown, and on the second ballot Brown was elected.
The race for vice-presidents was close all the way through. Jones, Wiley, McClure, and Burch were eliminated on the first
ballot. On the second ballot Rusk was elected one of the vice-presidents with the other to be chosen from Preston,
McLean, and Norfleet. On the third ballot Norfleet was eliminated and on the fourth Preston was elected by a small
majority. Frank Reid Brown, who will head the Y. M. C. A. for the coming year, held the most responsible
position on the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet this year. He is the first Junior who has ever had charge
of the “Y” Deputations. He conducted the “Come Clean” Campaign in Charlotte schools and this campaign was judged the most
successful yet conducted. He is a member of the “D” Club and has made the Honor Roll every term. His
home is in Greensboro, N.C. Dean Rusk, of Atlanta, Ga., has distinguished himself as one of the most capable men
in the Sophomore Class. He is an Honor Roll student and a wearer of the “D” having won his letter
in basketball. He is also a member of the Beaver Club. John F. Preston has won prominence at Davidson by
his enthusiasm over anything he undertakes. He is a good student and has done good work in the Y. M.
C. A. The new officers will be installed in office on April 7th. The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet has
not yet been chosen by the president-elect but will be announced at an early date. STATESVILLE GIRLS TO TAKE PART
IN RAINBOW REVUE The Junior theatrical entertainment will be held in Shearer Hall on Saturday, March 23. This entertainment was
scheduled for the week-end of December 15, but was delayed because of the close of school. Zeb V. Long, Jr.,
president of the Junior Class, announces that Murray Grier, director of The American Legion Follies at Statesville, will come to
Davidson and stage the production for the Juniors. The best talent in the Junior Class will combine with the actors
from the Legion show in Statesville. It has been announced that the completed production will be in the form of
a revue and that it will be entirely different from anything which has appeared at Davidson this year. The show
will last for an hour and a half, giving plenty of time for all present to attend entertainments later in
Charlotte. The authorities announce that a number of Statesville’s “Fairest” will be in the cast of the production. The Davidson
College Orchestra will furnish the music for the evening. The following Juniors were announced to serve on committees for the
show: Tickets and Seating Arrangements, W. B. McGuire, Chairman; Sam Coker, E. H. McCall, W. G. McGavock. Advertising, D. P.
Anderson, Chairman, J. A. Moore, R. F. Jarrett. Norton Elected R. F. Norton, of Rome, Ga., was elected Secretary-Treasurer of
the Student Body, March 13. This completed the Student Body elections. On the first ballot, four of the seven nominees
for this office were eliminated. When the second count was taken Arnold dropped out, leaving King and Norton for the
final ballot, at which the latter was winner by a close count. Z. V. LONG TO EDIT DAVIDSONIAN NEXT YEAR
Statesville Man Chosen Over Miller, Pratt and Jarratt WINS ON SECOND BALLOT New Editor, Prominent in Student Body, Has Many
Activities, Including President of Junior Class On the second ballot Z. V. Long, of Statesville, was elected editor-in-chief of The
Davidsonian for next year. Long won out over F. D. Miller, C. M. Pratt, and R. F. Jarratt. The first
ballot was held this Tuesday morning, but failed to receive a majority and Jarratt was dropped as the low man.
On the second ballot between Long, Miller, and Pratt, Long received a majority and was elected editor. Long served during
the past year as sporting editor of the Davidsonian, fulfilling his post capably. The other three nominees were managing editors
of the paper for the past year. Long is a prominent member of the Junior class; during his freshman year
he was elected secretary and treasurer of the class. At the end of his sophomore year he was chosen to
lead the junior class. Long is a member of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, and also a member of
Sigma Upsilon, honorary English fraternity. He was a member of the Reporters’ Club before his appointment to the staff of
the Davidsonian. Long is also an active Y. M. C. A. worker and has gone on several “Y” deputations. He
is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. Miller has been a constant worker on the Davidsonian for the
past three years, going through (Continued on page 4) ATHLETIC ASSN ELECTS BROHARD Brohard Defeats Whittle on Second Ballot for
Presidency FOURTEEN CANDIDATES Goodson and David Chosen Vice-Presidents from a Field of Six Men T. W. Brohard was elected president
of the Athletic Association on the second ballot last Wednesday morning. On the first ballot of the Athletic Association election,
one vice-president was chosen, W. B. Goodson being elected. On the second ballot Willie David was chosen to be the
second vice-president. Brohard was chosen from a field of fourteen men; all the juniors who are letter men being automatically
nominated for the presidency. On the first ballot all of the nominees were eliminated but Brohard and Whittle. The nominees
in addition to the two men up before the student body for president were Brohard, T. W.; Gardner, J. A.;
Halverstadt, B.; DeCamp, W.; Kugler, E. B.; Lafferty, E. L.; McGinnis, J. F.; Pritchett, C. R.; Nunan, T. R.; Whittle,
A. H.; and Warren, A. M. The two vice-presidents were chosen from six men, the nominees were Brown, Thad; Brock,
W. W.; Cowan, L. F.; Rusk, D.; Finley, and Goodson. Goodson was elected on the first ballot, and the race
for the second vice-president narrowed down to David and Rusk. And on the second ballot David was elected. Brohard was
one of the two vice-presidents of the Athletic Association for this year. For the first semester of this year he
served as the temporary head of the Association, since Currie had not then returned to college. During his freshman year
Brohard made three numerals, playing on the freshman football team, wrestling team, and track team. In his sophomore year he
made two letters, one in wrestling, and one in track. During this year he also was vice-president of the sophomore
class. This fall Brohard was one of the mainstays on the football team, making his letter. In addition to being
vice-president of the Athletic Association, Brohard was also (Continued on page 4) Heefner Is Chosen As Varsity Cheer Leader New
Leader to Take up Duties of Myers at First Baseball Game At a meeting of the student body on Wednesday
morning, March 13th, E. S. Heefner was elected cheer-leader for the coming year. In this election he defeated E. L.
Roberson, assistant cheer-leader for this year. Heefner came to Davidson from Winston-Salem, N. C., and entered the class of 1930,
being now a Junior. He is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta Social Fraternity, and is also a member
of the Reporters Club. He was recently taken into the Delta Pi Kappa Fraternity of Journalism in which line of
work he has proven himself most efficient. During the fall of this year Heefner was elected assistant cheer-leader, as was
Roberson who ran against him in the recent election. Through his competent work he has shown his abilities in this
field, and it is expected that he will prove an able successor to Myers, who held the office of cheer-leader
for this year. The new cheer-leader will, as usual, take charge at the first baseball game which will be played
on Friday, March 22. At this time the Sophomores will begin to try out for cheer-leader positions. They will continue
with the competition through the baseball season and the first football game next year. At this time two will be
chosen as assistant cheer-leaders. WADE SMITH GIVES ILLUSTRATED TALK Minister’s Lecture on “The Cross” Made Realistic by “Little Jets” Thursday
night, March 14, Wade Smith gave a lecture in Shearer Hall. As he talked, he illustrated his lecture by means
of drawing pictures on large sheets of paper. This added to the interest of the talk and made it realistic.
This lecture was one of the most inspiring that has been given this year. Mr. Smith in the earlier stages
of his talk discussed imagination and its wonderful qualities. Imagination, he explained, takes one away from the troubles of life.
God created man in bold strokes, and left it up to him to fill in his life. Imagination is a
great help in this respect. The main part of the lecture consisted of an account of the birth of Isaac
and his early life. Rev. Smith carried his audience from the praying of Abraham and Sarah for a child to
Isaac’s deliverance from the altar on the mountain top. He related the story so clearly as to make it seem
as if the scenes which he was describing were being enacted over again in the presence of the audience. In
the midst ofhis account Rev. Smith an- (Continued on page 5)

ANNUAL CELEBRATION UNDER DIRECTION OF JUNIOR CLASS TO PROVIDE NEW FEATURES

FRIDAY: Ridge. 7:30 P.M. Shearer Hall.
SATURDAY: 7:30 P.M. — “Rainbow Revue.” Tuesday.

JUNIOR SPEAKING PROGRAM

The following dates and activities constitute the calendar of the weekend events sponsored by the Junior Class.

3:00 P.M. — Baseball game, Richardson Field.
— “The Taming of the Shrew,” Red and Black Masquers.
9:00 P.M. — Entertainment at Charlotte Hotel.
2:30 P.M. — State High School Track Meet, Richardson Field.
4:30 P.M. — Entertainment by Junior Class at Davidson Theatre, Shearer Hall.
9:00 P.M. — Entertainment in Mooresville.

NOTE: The Oratorical Contest is necessarily postponed until 8:00 P.M.

Davidson vs. Oak Dramatists Present Shakespearian Play

Miss Letitia Curry and Stewart Meecham Given Leading Parts

At 7:00 o'clock in Shearer Hall, the Dramatic Club will present “The Taming of the Shrew.” The play will be
over in time to attend the entertainment in Charlotte which follows it. The nominal sum of twenty-five cents will be
charged as admission. Although this is one of Shakespeare's plays, it will be presented in a way that Shakespeare himself
never dreamed of, that is, in modern dress. Those members of the Club who were drawn for the cast, including
Miss Letitia Curry and Stewart Meecham, have been hard at work every night for ten days practicing. For much longer
time than that, the members of the cast have been at work on it at regular intervals to ensure that
it will be the best produced here. It is a very humorous nature. It seems fitting that at the center
of Junior Speaking there should be this highly entertaining production of Davidson's best talent. Anyone who has seen the enthusiasm
with which the members of the cast have undertaken their parts could not doubt that a treat is in store
for all those who attend. Miss Letitia Curry and Stewart Meecham are the leading characters. Other important characters are Mrs.
Otto and W. N. Jones.

LONG AND McGUIRE DEFEAT BAPTISTS, BUT LOSE FIRST MEET WITH STATE

The Davidson debating team, composed of Z. V. Long, Jr., and W. R. McGuire, debating State and Wake Forest on
the nights of March twelfth and thirteenth, lost the first night but won the judge’s decision on the second. Upholding
the negative side of the question: Resolved, Expert Jurists, three to five in number, should be substituted for the present
plan of trial by jury, the Davidson team lost to State at Burlington by the unanimous decision of the judges.
While representing the affirmative side of the same question on the following night, they won over Wake Forest by the
same margin. This makes the total number of debates won and lost by the Davidson debaters for the whole season.

Another local debating team, composed of E. E. Morris, Jr., and C. R. Pritchett, will uphold the negative side of
the same question against the University of Alabama in Concord on March 19. The only other debate of the season
will be held here on April 18 when the same team again argues the negative side against the Birmingham-Southern College
debaters.

Seven Men Are Honored By Phi Beta Kappa Bids

Albright, Davidson, Fry, Hall, Hill, Kirkland, and McConnell Are Bid

Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity, extended the following Seniors bids in their spring honorary bids: Albright, Davidson, Fry,
Hall, Hill, Kirkland, and McConnell. These have all been accepted.

Albright is from Richmond, Va. He has taken a very active part in most of the musical organizations on campus,
having been director of the Jazz Orchestra, and a member of the Symphony Orchestra and the Glee Club.

Davidson is from Henderson, Texas. He has majored in Chemistry, in which subject he is also an assistant.

Fry, who is from Blacksburg, S.C., is the best artist that has been at Davidson for several years. He is
majoring in Greek and is a member of the Physics and Classical honorary fraternities.

Frank Hall is the only student now in college who makes any serious claim to being a poet. His home
is in Wilmington, N.C.

Hill is the past captain of the wrestling team, and he is also a ministerial student. He is from Richmond,
Va.

McConnell, who is the son of Dr. J. M. McConnell, is a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Kirkland is the assistant manager of the Student Store. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity and
is from Durham.

Personnel Director Speaks To Students

Mr. Cameron Beck, of New York Stock Exchange, Talks in Chapel

On Tuesday morning, March 19, Mr. Cameron Beck, Personnel Director of the New York Stock Exchange, addressed the students and
faculty. Mr. Beck, who was at Davidson once before three years ago at which time he made a talk, is
on his way from New York to the South Carolina Teachers Association which he will address.

Coming from the Middle-West, Mr. Beck has worked from the bottom up to the position of high honor and responsibility
which he now holds, being recognized as probably the outstanding personnel expert in the United States, if not the world.
He was instrumental in raising funds for the Charlotte Y.M.C.A. The chief aim of Mr. Beck in his work, and
one which he stressed in his talk, is to bring business and education closer together. And besides having the characters
and training of 2100 men of the New York Stock Exchange under his supervision, he is intensely interested in the
various institutions of learning from the grammar school to the University throughout the United States. In his speech in Shearer
Hall, Mr. Beck stated that there was a great need of trained executives and that there was never a generation
of youths more capable of doing things in a big way than the present if they are only willing to
pay the price that leadership always demands. The greatest trouble with the young business man of today is that they
are satisfied in too many cases with what they already have.

(Continued on page 5)

“Rainbow Revue” Postponed Before Christmas to be Given

— Baseball Game and State High Track Meet — “Taming of the Shrew” in Shearer Tonight.

Plans for the Junior Speaking weekend which begins today call for a varied and interesting program. Due to complications, the
Junior oratorical contest, about which the weekend originally centered, has been postponed until Tuesday. As planned, it was to have
been held last night, but has been put off by the class officers until Tuesday night.

The outstanding feature of the weekend will be the “Rainbow Revue,” which is to be presented by the Junior Class
tomorrow night at 7:30 in Shearer Hall. This is the attraction which was to be given last December, and which
was postponed because of the closing of school just before Christmas. The “Rainbow Revue” is a snappy and colorful entertainment,
with a cast made up of members of the Junior Class and twelve of Statesville’s fairest ladies. The Davidson Jazz
Orchestra will also play at that time. The admission will be fifty cents.

Another entertainment planned by the Junior Class will be held tomorrow afternoon. It will be in the form of a
picture, “The Lady of the Pavements,” presented at the Davidson Theatre at 4:30 o'clock. The Juniors are giving this as
a class treat, free to all Davidson students and their girls. A special section of the theatre will be reserved
for those with girls. The film to be shown stars Lupe Velez, with William Boyd, Jetta Goudal, George Fawcett, and
an all-star cast. It is D. W. Griffith's latest production, and this will be the first showing of it in
this part of the country. The Davidson orchestra will play.

Besides these two outstanding features, there will be a number of other happenings on the campus. This afternoon at 3:00
o'clock, the Davidson varsity meets Oak Ridge in the first baseball game of the season. Tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 o'clock,
the State High School Track Meet will be run off on Richardson Field. Tonight at 7:30, the Red and Black
Masquers will present a modernized version of the “Taming of the Shrew.” At 9:00 o'clock, there will be an entertainment
in Charlotte at the Hotel Charlotte and tomorrow night one will be held in Mooresville.

ATHLETES HONORED BY SPEAKERS FOR PAST EXCELLENCE

Thirty-Eight Certificates Are Awarded by Four Faculty Members

Before a few visiting alumni and a large number of students, Davidson held its third annual athletic awards night in
Shearer Hall, March 15. In commencing the exercises, "O Davidson" was sung. The first feature of the program was a
very effective talk given by Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, director of physical education. The subject of his talk was “What
Price Athletics,” in which he emphasized the following points: “True sportsmanship is the application of the Golden Rule in athletics,
together with a wholesome respect for the opponent’s ability as well as his intention. As this term ‘sportsmanship’ should be
made the watchword of all athletics, may I place emphasis upon the fact that you, as representatives of Davidson College,
should assume along with the award of your ‘D’ certain obligations as well as distinctive privileges. Whether we recognize the
fact or not, athletics play a vital part in crystallizing public opinion regarding any college.

“There are many wearers of the ‘D’ who are not here tonight to see you carry on. These men, too,
have known what it means to force heart and nerve and sinew to serve their turns long after they are
gone, when only their wills remained to bid them hold on. You owe much to them, some of whom have
passed the last white goal line and have played their final game. They will never again voice their vibrant approval
of your work from the sidelines, but to you they give the torch, indeed from fallen hands—a torch that will
burn fiercest even in the dark hours of defeat and gloom.

(Continued on page 6)
