WHEN you confer a kindness be silent about it; when you receive one be sure to speak of it. —Charles
Kingsley.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

HOW ABOUT THE BAND UNIFORM FUND?

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 28, 1929 No. 19

TRUSTEES DECIDE TO MAKE CHANGES AFFECTING SCHOOL
Dr. Martin’s Resignation Accepted by es? anal in OTHER MATTERS SETTLED
Pillars of Old Chambers to be Remodeled—New Infirmary and Changes for R. O. T. C. Department Planned

During its regular mid-winter meeting held here last week, the board of trustees of the college made a number of
decisions and rulings which will have far-reaching effects on the future of the college. The major question under consideration at
this time was the request for retirement made by Dr. W. J. Martin last year at commencement. Dr. Martin's resignation
from the presidency of the college was accepted, but the trustees were not willing to sever completely the relation of
Dr. Martin with the college, and accordingly they elected him to a professorship, at the same time granting him a
year’s leave of absence. He will assume his duties as a professor in September 1930.

The following recommendations made by Dr. Martin to the board were adopted: (1) that adequate endowments for the library be
secured in order that it may be well maintained and its stock of books improved; (2) that the number of
student scholarships be increased, and (3) that immediate steps be taken to secure funds for the building of a new
infirmary, which will be complete and modern and better suited to the needs of the college than the present one.

Among a number of other matters decided upon by the trustees were several which will be of especial interest to
the students. It was definitely determined that the four pillars of Old Chambers Building which now stand in front of
the new building shall be torn down. Moreover, the college Y. M. C. A. was offered the use of Shearer
Hall for its headquarters as soon as that building shall be vacated. The R. O. T. C. Department is to
be moved from its present location in the Armory, which is the old Martin Building, to the Temporary Laboratory Building,
which is at present occupied by the Physics and Biology departments of the college; these latter departments will be removed
to New Chambers on its completion. The present Armory is to be torn away for the beautification of the campus,
and the R. O. T. C. Department (Continued on page 6)

Spring Holidays
The Spring holidays will continue from March 28, 1:30 p. m. to 8:30 a. m. April 3, as announced in
the bulletin. This decision was reached by the Executive Committee at a recent meeting. This gives the students approximately five
days vacation, and no time will be taken off to make up for the days lost just before the Christmas
vacation on account of the influenza epidemic.

LECTURE GIVEN BY DAVIDSON ALUMNUS
Dr. Anderson Tells of Airplane Trip Over Western Europe

On Wednesday night February 20, in Shearer Hall, Dr. Neil Anderson, Davidson alumnus and trustee spoke on a trip over
western Europe by airplane. Besides being a Presbyterian pastor in Savannah, Ga., Dr. Martin stated in introducing the speaker, Dr.
Anderson is also well known as a theologian, author and inventor.

In the introduction to his speech, Dr. Anderson said that there were many people who, when they heard of his
proposed trip last year wanted to know why he wanted to fly over Europe instead of seeing it in the
conventional method with guides and on foot. To this question he answered that (1) he wanted to go any way
but the conventional one with the chattering guides and companions and (2) he had always had a desire to fly
anyway being of a restless nature all his life. Dr. Anderson then stated that he had gotten his first chance
to fly not many years ago in Savannah, and was rather surprised at the sense of safety and lack of
dizziness he felt. Thus one difficulty that arose in planning the trip was eliminated, that of the safety of it.
The other chief obstacle was the cost but through the courtesy of the flying companies he and his companion were
granted a reduction and so this hindrance was removed. With reference to the comfort of such a trip, Dr. Anderson
stated that the airports and transportation to and from them were comfortable as any of the railroad stations of today.
The itinerary of the journey included the following chief points: London, Paris, Geneva, Genoa, Venice, Munich, Berlin and back to
Paris. Next some slides of the aeroplanes used, views from these and other objects (Continued on page 6)

Vocational Guidance
MEDICINE
(This article was contributed to The Davidsonian by Dr. Charles Mayo of the Mayo Clinic at Rochester, Minn., upon the
request of the Vocational Guidance Committee.)

The study of medicine is arduous, but it is wonderful in accomplishment and its varied interests. If you can but
forget its rewards, in the worry over whether you are doing what is expected of you and what is best,
and strive to do it, rewards will come until you wonder whether you really deserve them, and, being but human,
are stimulated to make greater effort. Come with us into medicine, the study of which will give you possession of
more knowledge of the world than any other study, as you will learn nature in botany and zoology, and of
birds and animals, also the science of the earth’s structure in geology, and of waters with their fish, and other
life, and above all, chemistry, and physics, knowledge of structure that you can take down and rebuild combinations of elements.

Medicine was always the learned profession. When medicine was developed by the Greeks to a high standard it then and
since was the source of scientific progress. What was known of Botany, Chemistry, Astronomy and Physics accumulating through all the
ages was a great part of the training of the physicians of each period. In the sixteenth century life averaged
but twenty years, in 1850 it was but forty years, but with the appreciation of the causes of disease it
has now advanced to fifty-eight years by public health control, i.e., preventive medicine. It was the death of babies and
children, that held averages low. We hear of big game hunters, but their work and danger were as nothing to
that of the microbe hunters who studied disease and its causes, often falling a victim to the disease themselves, but
others carried on. Engineers credit the building of the Panama Canal to modern engineering methods. The French had good engineers
and wonderful machinery. We take out of the Minnesota iron mines each year more pay dirt than the entire diggings
of the canal involved. Our medical men under General Gorgas made the work at the canal possible by stopping the
stalk of death from yellow fever and malaria; it is now one of the most healthy places in the world
as the government medical men still have charge of this area. Medical investigators have found the causes of the many
diseases which decimated the people of former times and, by prevention, made community health possible. We are now dying of
our individual poor health from neglect or disease and inheritance conditions, which are often acquired from ignorance concerning their cause
and prevention. Health is not necessary to happiness, congenial work with pleasant associations is happiness; in fact, happiness is a
state of mind, it may often be found in the insane as visions of grandeur. Happiness may be cultivated by
the sane to advantage and then may be found in doing good to others; to an extraordinary extent it is
cultivated by the unfortunate blind.

The medicine man of today stands in a curious position. Responsible for making life longer, he becomes morally responsible for
making old age worth living, and must help avoid senility or the result is but an added burden upon community
life in general as the sick and injured hamper more than the dead. Come with us as medicine is just
in its infancy, and here is a place for all who will work in it to plan for the man
of the near future.

SOPHOMORE CLASS HAS ANNUAL FEED
Charlotte Chamber of Commerce to Act as Host

One of the most important events of a social nature during this week will be the annual Sophomore Banquet. The
banquet will be held in the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce Hall at 7 o'clock Friday evening, March 1st. Several guests
of honor will be present in addition to the members of the Sophomore Class. These invited guests are: Dr. Ashley
Cappell, C. O. Kuester, Dr. C. K. Brown, Dr. K. J. Foreman, W. L. Younger, M. C. O'Neal, Ernest Milton,
M. T. Gilmour, J. W. Melton, R. E. Kell, Z. V. Long, and R. A. Hall. R. L. McMillan will
be toastmaster and several toasts will be made by members of the Sophomore class. After the dinner, Dr. Ashley Chappell
of Monroe, N. C., will speak. A short talk will also be made by Mr. Clarence Kuester, who is the
secretary of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce. Various forms of entertainment have also been provided for. The hall will be
decorated in white rosebuds and in green and white, the colors of the Sophomore Class. The men will be entertained
at a theatre party immediately after the banquet.

COLLEGE HEAD IS CONFINED TO HOME
Dr. Martin Shows Improvement After Recent Mishap

Dr. Martin was injured last Friday night when he was struck at Davidson by an automobile driven by Chester Hamilton,
a laborer of this place. He was rushed immediately to the Charlotte Sanatorium. At first it was feared that his
ankle was broken but although later the hospital attaches said that no bones were broken, it was discovered that a
small bone in the rear of the leg was broken very near the ankle. Dr. Martin is now getting along
nicely although it will be several days before he will be out. Dr. Martin was walking with Dr. Harding, head
of the Greek Department when the accident occurred. They were crossing a driveway as Hamilton drove into it. Dr. Martin
attempted to cross in front of the car and was knocked down. Dr. Harding stepped back and was not hit
by the car. Dr. Martin said the accident was unavoidable and Hamilton was not held responsible. Dr. Martin is now
getting along fine and will be out before long. Monday in chapel the student body voted to send flowers to
Dr. Martin to express its sympathy.

Senior Class Reception Sponsored By Faculty
Large Number of Guests Present in Gaily Decorated Gymnasium

Aided by a full moon Saturday night, the Senior Houseparty shone with a glory that has not been equalled in
many years. The faculty entertained at a most unique party Saturday night in the gym to renew an old tradition
of the college. Quite a number of girls attended as guests of the Seniors and the Faculty. Following the arrival
of approximately sixty girls from various parts of the state Saturday evening, dinner was served to the Seniors and their
guests at six o'clock in the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel. The students eating regularly at the Hotel consented to move temporarily to
other boarding houses to give the Seniors full sway. This was an informal dinner.To begin the week-end activities, at the
Faculty Party Saturday night in the gym at eight-thirty, the Seniors attained their highest dignity. The Seniors were met at
the door by the members of the Faculty and their wives, who were dressed in costumes pertaining to events of
the holiday, predominating in the colonial costumes of Washington's day. The interior of the gymnasium was gaily decked with flags
and bunting blending with the green and gold colors of the class. From the lights high in the center was
more red, white, and blue to commemorate the birthday of our first president. The small tables placed about the floor
of the gym were set with a cover of green and gold with tall green candles burning in the center.
Soon after the hour set to begin the program of the evening, two side-shows were announced. A display of Oriental
Mysteries could be seen in one, portrayed by Miss Averil, Mrs. Williams, and Prof. Porter. The participants in this show
were dressed in appropriate costumes and demonstrated their powers of magic and mind reading. In the other show could be
seen Prof. A. Currie, who presented for the approval of the audience his figures in wax. He stated that by
special (Continued on page 3)

SEVEN ADDITIONS MADE TO GLEEMEN

The Glee Club is rapidly rounding out its plans for the Spring Tour, which they will make during the middle
of March. In anticipation of this trip, several new men have been added to the club and a good number
of new songs have been learned. The new men who have been taken into the club are: First Tenors—R. D.
Powell, J. C. Rice. Second Tenor—W. M. Kellar. Baritone—W. M. Regen; Bass—L. C. Sessions, S. A. White, D. D. Wilkinson.
Dates at Lincolnton and at Converse have been definitely made for March 15th and 16th respectively, and other engagements for
concerts will be made which will lengthen the trip to some five or six days. It is also planned to
take a short trip sometime between the present time and the date of the spring tour.

MANY SCHOOLS IN Dixie Debating League, to Which Davidson Belongs, Offers Best Team, Cup

The Davidson Debating Team will invade the Old Dominion on March 5 through the 7th, the first debate to be
held with the University of Richmond at Richmond, Virginia. The Davidson team will discuss the negative side of the question,
which will be: Resolved, that the present system of trial by jury should be abolished. The next day, Wednesday, March
6, William and Mary College will be debated at Williamsburg, Virginia, where the Davidson debaters will take the affirmative side
of the question, which is: Resolved, that expert jurists, three or five in number, should be substituted for the present
system of trial by jury. The debaters who will represent Davidson are W. L. Dumas and R. M. Christian. William
and Mary College is in the Dixie Debating League. On March 7, Davidson will send a debating team, composed of
R. C. Grady and J. C. Matthews, to Queens College, Charlotte, N. C., where it will debate a team from
the University of Florida. Davidson's team will use the negative side of the question, which has already been stated as:
Resolved, that the present system of trial by jury should be abolished. This debate will complete the season for Grady
and Matthews, and the debate at Williamsburg will probably be the last one for Dumas and Christian. Two other debating
teams will then take the stand. One of them, composed of W. B. McGuire and Z. V. Long, will make
a trip to Burlington, N. C., to debate North Carolina State College. From here the team will proceed to debate
Wake Forest College at Wake Forest. Against North Carolina State, the negative side of the question, as heretofore mentioned, will
be discussed by the Davidson team; and against Wake Forest, the (Continued on page 3)

HONOR ROLL

The following students made an average of 95 or above during the first semester of this scholastic year:

Freshmen: DuBose, E. Z., Enloe, R. P., McLean, T. W., Preston, J. A.
Sophomores: Wiley, S. S.
Juniors: Brown, F. R., Brown, J. L., Edelman, A. T., Frew, A. M., Harrill, H. C., Johnston, F. W., Knox,
J. B., McGavock, W. G., McGuire, W. B., Marks, J. R., Marsh, E. E.
Seniors: Albright, C. J., Brown, S. Y., Davidson, H. S., Dumas, W. L., Fry, G. A., Gilmour, M. T., Graham,
J. R., Hall, F., Hayes, R. B., Hill, T. E., Jennings, H. B., Kirkland, L. D., Lanier, C. N., McConnell,
E. R., Martin, D. F., Moriarty, J. B.

To the Faculty and Their Wives

Realizing the impossibility of thanking individually every person who had a part in the delightful entertainment given us last Saturday
evening, we wish to endeavor through this column to express to you, our hosts and hostesses, our sincere and hearty
appreciation for the kind hospitality extended to us and our guests of last week-end, both in your homes and at
the party.

The Class of '29.

INSTALLATION OF Interest Shown in Proposed Inauguration of “Phi Beta Kappa of Athletics”

Much interest is being manifested on the campus over the proposed inauguration of a chapter of Sigma Delta Psi, National
Athletic Society, at Davidson. Sigma Delta Psi, widely known as the “Phi Beta Kappa of Athletics,” has many chapters throughout
the North and West. Its prime motive is the stimulation of athletics. One feature of the fraternity is that a
man who is a good all-around athlete, but not quite proficient enough in any one sport to make a letter,
is in many cases able to fulfill all the requirements of the fraternity. On the other hand, a man may
be a great football player, (Continued on page 6)

DELEGATES GO TO O.D.K. CONVENTION

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, will be represented at the annual convention of that order by
five delegates. The convention is to be held at the University of Alabama Friday and Saturday, March 1-2. A most
interesting program has been arranged for the convention by officials in charge. Prominent men in the fraternity have been engaged
to speak and several novel features for entertainment and recreation are to be introduced. Those who have been chosen to
represent Delta Circle at the convention are: M. M. King, president of the local circle; M. T. Gilmour, C. R.
Lake, R. E. Kell, A. N. Myers.

PHI DELTA THETA OFFICES PRESENT FOR INSTALLATION

Prominent Officials Present at Installation of Fraternity

FORTY-TWO MEN INDUCTED

Ceremonies Continue Throughout Friday and Saturday With Banquet as Final Feature

On last Saturday afternoon, the General Council and prominent executive members of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity, through Mr. Henry K.
Urion, national president, formally presented the charter of North Carolina Gamma of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. This was the climax
of initiation ceremonies which had occupied the greater part of Friday and Saturday. The chapter initiation ceremony was conducted by
men each from the North Carolina Alpha and Beta chapters at Duke University and the University of North Carolina, respectively,
and assisted by other Phis. Forty-one men were inducted into Phi Delta Theta. Of this number, twenty-five are active members
of the local chapter, three are members of the faculty, and the remaining thirteen are alumni. Alumni who were not
taken in at this time will be either initiated here by the local chapter at a later date or by
the chapter nearest them. Ceremonies incident to the installation were begun Friday morning and continued through the day. Friday night,
open house was held by the other fraternities in honor of the visiting Phis. On Saturday morning, the individual initiation
of members was completed. On Saturday afternoon, the presentation of the charter was made and the chapter officially installed. The
closing event was in the form of a banquet held at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel Saturday night. Among the notables present
were: Henry K. Urion, of Chicago; Judge W. R. Bayes, of New York City; Robert E. Haas, of Allentown, Pa.;
George Banta, of Menasha, Wis.; Prof. Carrol W. Doten, of Massachusetts Institute of Technology; James E. Davidson, of Bay City,
Mich.; Dr. A. A. Brenizer, of Charlotte; R. C. Ball, Fred J. Milligan, of Oxford, Ohio; Fred J. Coxe, of
Wadesboro, N. C.; and George Y. Ragsdale, of Smithfield, N. C. Phi Delta Theta Fraternity was founded at Miami University,
Oxford, Ohio, in 1848 as one of the Miami Triad. (Continued on page 6)

Dr. Brenizer Talks On Medicine

Following Lecture on Medicine Tonight, Business Will Be Discussed Next Week

Continuing the program of the Vocational Guidance Institute, Dr. Addison Brenizer, prominent surgeon of Charlotte, will speak at 7:00 o'clock
tonight in Shearer Hall. His subject will be “Medicine As a Life Calling.” Dr. Brenizer will be on campus all
morning tomorrow and will be glad to interview personally all those interested in medicine. Those wishing to talk to Dr.
Brenizer will make an appointment through Sam Y. Brown, chairman of the committee on medicine.

The first program sponsored by the institute was given Tuesday night with Mr. Paul Whitlock, Charlotte attorney, speaking on law.

Business Next Week

Beginning Monday, March 4, there will be a series of informal talks on various lines of business by prominent business
men every night at seven o'clock in Shearer Hall. This series will last through Thursday night. These talks will all
be informal and will be thrown open at the end for question and answer discussion. There will be no interviews
with the speakers on business. Tuesday night, Mr. J. P. Quarles, of the Equitable Life Insurance Company of Charlotte, will
speak at seven o'clock on insurance as a life work. Mr. Quarles has been in the employ of the Equitable
Life Insurance Society since 1903 and its manager since 1910. He is an ex-alumnus of Davidson and an alumnus of
The Citadel. His hobbies are football and golf.

As Life Work

On the following Wednesday night, March 6, Mr. D. H. McCullough of the Todd-McCullough Company of Charlotte will speak on
accounting. Mr. McCullough is a C. P. A. at the top of his business and a member of Charlotte's oldest
recognized accounting firm. The same night, at eight o'clock, a leading banker of Charlotte, as yet unchosen, will speak on
banking. Real Estate as a Vocation will be presented by Mr. H. G. Carson of Charlotte, of the real estate
company bearing his name. Mr. Carson is a Davidson man, of the Class of '16, receiving his Master’s degree at
the University of Pennsylvania in 1917. He was a captain in Field Artillery during the war and is now a
major in the Reserves. He is president of the Charlotte Real Estate Board and director of the North Carolina Real
Estate Association.

The following week of Vocational Guidance will be devoted to education, with Mr. T. W. Andrews speaking, Textile Manufacturing, Engineering,
and Chemistry. The last three addresses named will begin March 19 and continue through March 21. Dr. Charles Myers, of
Greensboro, will close the program of Vocational Guidance Institute with an address on “The Ministry as a Life Calling.”

Dr. Brenizer

Dr. Brenizer, who speaks tonight on medicine, received his degree as Doctor of Medicine from Johns Hopkins, having done his
preparatory work at the University of North Carolina. According to Who's Who in America, Dr. Brenizer has had quite a
bit of experience abroad, having been (Continued on page 3)
