@.-. to Page Four ™s — _— THE DAVIDSONIAN x March 14, 1929.

WAYS AND CUSTOMS OF ILLINOIS U. TOLD

Claim No Charmed Circle of Exclusive Fraternities

“College as understood in the East is scarcely heard of at the University of Illinois,” says Francis C. Coughlin, in the April College Humor. “There is no charmed circle of exclusive fraternities; there are vastly too many Greek letter houses to make possible a monopoly of wealth and talent in any select group of manageable size. Furthermore, personal aloofness is not counted a virtue at Illinois; it is considered an ill-mannered vice. Men freely smile after a second introduction. They speak after a first meeting. Rather frequently they speak away a newcomer's bad, formal allegiances, good or bad, are taken politely and answered, and the newcomer is frankly dismissed or accepted on the basis of his own contentions. This is sometimes called democracy.

“The great public profession of collegiate faith occurs during the football season. Illinois teams are lamentably rough (not mechanically trained, and vicious), and a hard team on any man’s sod lot. The Illinois band wins and deserves praise; with its two hundred and fifty pieces, it furnishes the most impressive show the conference affords. On October days it comes onto the field and moves into alignment for the huge block ‘Illini,’ some sixty yards of rigid men, to the strains of Hail to the Orange. A few minutes later the stands rise for the first kick-off of the half: it barks out across the field. ‘Skinney-wow-wow,’ a slamming echo. ‘Illinois—Oskee-wow-wow, Illinois—yeay!’ Let any friend join in right lustily. Let any foeman look to himself.”

For Seniors Only

The American Mercury offers two prizes, each of $500, for articles by college graduates of this year, discussing their experiences in college. One will go to the best article received from a male student, and the other to the best from a woman student. The conditions:
1. No article should be less than 3,000 words long, or more than 8,000.
2. Each must be the original work of a student graduating from an American college with the class of 1929, and taking the A. B. or its equivalent.
3. Each must bear the full name and address of the author, the name of the college attended, and a statement of the course followed and the degree to be taken.
4. Each must be accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope for its return in case it is not accepted.
5. The Editor of The American Mercury will be the sole judge of the competition.

All MSS. entered for the prizes should reach this office not later than July 1 next. The two prize-winners will be printed in the issue for September. In case others are received that seem to be worth printing, offers for them will be made. But no contestant will be obliged to accept such an offer. There are no conditions. The aim of the competition is not to bring forth learned treatises on higher education, but to obtain records of personal experiences. How do the four years in college strike an intelligent young man or woman—and only the highly intelligent will be able to formulate significant verdicts—immediately after they are over? Does the time seem to have been well spent? How much was learned? What was gained in other directions—by social contacts, and so on? How many of the instructors encountered seemed to have anything genuinely valuable to impart? Was life in general pleasant or not? Is there any feeling at the end that equipment has been improved? Does college arouse a desire for further learning, or do the four years seem enough?

The contestants will be expected to name their colleges, and to give the names of any teachers they may discuss, especially those who have struck them as competent. The final day for sending in MSS. has been put beyond commencement time, so that frankness need not imperil diplomas. The MSS. submitted will be judged by their honesty, their intelligence, their freshness of viewpoint, and their interest as human documents. The competition is open to the students of all American colleges of good repute. Contestants will be free to discuss all of the matters suggested, or any one of them, or anything outside them. It is desired to give them the utmost practicable freedom. MSS. may be sent in at any time before July 1. The names of all contestants save the prize-winners will be held strictly confidential.

COLLEGIATE CANADIAN EDITOR IS DISMISSED

Toronto, Ontario (By New Student Service)—Another college editor has been dismissed for writing candid editorials and another campus has been split apart over the question of censorship. The epidemic of editorial dismissals has visited Canada and deprived Mr. L. J. Ryan, a senior at the University of Toronto, of his job. As usual, differing interpretations of the duties of the college editor lie at the bottom of the trouble. Because he capped a series of outspoken editorials with a frank discussion of what one student newspaper called the “ubiquitous practice of petting,” Mr. Ryan was deposed by a student government, which, it seems, was driven to the action by the governing body of the University. Thereupon Mr. Ryan, who appears to be a very militant young man, raised the issue of a genuine student government in conjunction with that of a free newspaper. His case was championed by the Toronto Evening Telegram, which gave over a section to the deposed editor and his staff. The students elected a new editor and a new staff. The student senate, breaking with tradition, made a bonfire of the “breaking” sheet. The University president stepped into the controversy and promised to make a thorough investigation of the entire question of student government.

Judging from the amount of space devoted to this controversy in the Canadian student papers, and by the impassioned editorials in behalf of a brother editor, censorship in one college has become an event that every college journalist views with alarm. The editorials of the McGill Daily were especially outspoken, and had its own correspondent on the scene. “It is absurd,” the Daily commented editorially, “to suppose that undergraduate opinion will always be of a balanced and staid maturity. It is also absurd to attempt to regulate everything that is expressed by undergraduates. The paper is supposed to represent student opinion, and we consider that every undergraduate in Toronto has a right to protest, whether they actually agree with the editorial or not, against the invasion of autocratic authority.”

“Do you really enjoy being this drunk?”
“Sure, I wouldn't be any other drunk for anything in the world.”
—U. of So. California Wampus.

Atwater Kent To Pick Ten Singers

Advance Study to be Provided in Addition to Awards

College students throughout the country, particularly those who intend to adopt music as a career, will be interested in the announcement of the Atwater Kent Foundation’s plans for a 1929 nation-wide audition to select the ten best young singers in the country for vocal training at a recognized school of music. Significant in the 1929 plans, as compared with the 1927 and 1928 programs of the same kind carried on by the Atwater Kent Foundation, is the fact that all of the ten finalists will receive at least a year's training under recognized masters in well-known schools, in addition to being under larger monetary benefits.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The popular vote of radio listeners—the vote counting 60 per cent of the final result in the local, state, and district auditions by means of which these finalists for national honors are chosen—signified their distaste for this "strike." The cash benefits this year have been increased from an aggregate of $17,500 given in preceding years, to $25,000.

"It seems to me," said A. Atwater Kent, president of the Foundation, in an announcement, "that after devoting tests, in which 50,000 or 60,000 voices are tried out, we should make certain that all ten of the finalists be assured instruction and the means with which to pursue it. For that reason, we have added $7,500 in cash prizes and two years in tuition to the former awards. We have received innumerable assurances from all over the country that the radio audition is worthwhile, and I am, therefore, delighted to take advantage of the opportunity to hold another one this year."

The awards this year will be as follows:

Winners of first place (one boy and one girl), $5,000 each and two years’ tuition in an American conservatory.
Winners of second place, $3,000 each and one year's tuition.
Winners of third place, $2,000 each and one year's tuition.
Winners of fourth place, $1,500 each and one year's tuition.
Winners of fifth place, $1,000 each and one year's tuition.

During the summer and early fall, local contests will be held in the cities and towns of every state, open to amateur singers from 18 to 25. State auditions will follow and will be broadcast from a central point in each state. Two winners, one boy and one girl, will be selected to represent each state in district contests, of which there will be five, held at central points in the East, Middle West, Southeast, and Far West. The ten finalists (one boy and one girl from each district) will be put on the air over a coast-to-coast network in December, for final rating by a board of musicians of national standing. All expenses of contests to the district and final auditions will be paid by the Foundation.

First All-American Quintet Is Selected
College Humor Sports Editor Names Leading Basketeers

For the first time in sports history, an All-American basketball team has been selected. Joe Godfrey, Jr., Sports Editor of College Humor and well-known sports authority, with the cooperation of 200 college basketball coaches, has done for basketball in All-American selections what Walter Camp did in starting the annual choosing of All-American college football teams. Mr. Godfrey traveled all over the country, seeing as many of the major quintets in action as possible, and for the rest, he has relied upon the composite judgment of the college coaches.

Here is the first All-American five:
Forward: Hyatt, Pittsburgh
Forward: Shaaf, Pennsylvania
Center: Murphy, Providence
Guard: Wineapple, Arkansas
Guard: Churchill, Oklahoma

Hyatt hails from Uniontown, Pa.; Shaaf from Philadelphia; Murphy from Marion, Indiana; Wineapple from Salem, Mass.; Pickell from Pocahontas, Ark. A second and third team also were selected.

In reviewing the work of many of the college players who displayed marked ability in their respective positions, Mr. Godfrey, in the current issue of College Humor, points among fifty-two others to the following forwards: Huff, Furman; Dowtin, Wake Forest; King, William and Mary.

Work on the “Quips and Cranks” is now progressing rapidly, the introductory pages and the view sections having already been printed. The view section consists of eight views. These have been done in sepia with bled pages, which produces a very desirable effect. A four-color frontispiece makes an illustrious reproduction of New Chambers, while the first section, which is done in gray, also gives a pleasing result. Proof of the Senior section is now in hand. It is to be noted that a two-month decrease is shown in the time usually taken for this part of the work by annual staffs for several previous years. It is also expected that the proofs for the football section will be completed within a few days, as these are coming in rapidly. To the list of already handed in may be added that of the Sponsors. This reproduction of the charming physical traits of the weaker sex will without a doubt prove most pleasing to all beauty-lovers.

The bulk of work remaining for the staff of “Quips and Cranks” lies in the composition of the debating and athletic sections. These seasons, however, have not yet been completed, and it is impossible, therefore, to proceed with work on their particular sections. All other work is being pressed forward at as rapid a rate as is advisable. The various copies that have been turned in and completed have already been set to the press, while all other work is being sent in immediately upon completion. Progress of work on the annual is much farther advanced than usual, and a piling up of work at the last minute is not to be expected.

Son: “Mama, was your name Pullman before you were married?”
Mother: “No, son, why do you ask?”
Son: “I just wondered what that name stood for on so many of our towels.”—Orange and Blue.

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Somebody has to believe in the big possibilities of little things. James Watt saw the lid of his tea-kettle dance—and today our civilization is built largely on steam. In the field of communication, Bell saw the possibilities of a little vibrating diaphragm. Today from the telephone at his elbow a man talks to his next-door neighbor or across the continent, just as he chooses. Men in the telephone industry, in commercial and administrative as well as technical work, are constantly proving that little suggestions, little ideas, little changes, when smoothly fitted into the comprehensive plan, may be big in possibilities of better public service.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones.