STATE TRACK MEET; OGLETHORPE GREENSBORO SATURDAY BASEBALL—FRIDAY FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 2, 1929 No. 27

MacDougall Discusses History Of Psychology During Lecture Friday

Apollinian and Dionysian Views of Psychology Taken Up

TWO PRINCIPAL SCHOOLS

Terms of Subject Explained—Intellect and Nature Studied from Different Angles

Dr. William MacDougall spoke last Friday night before a large crowd of students, faculty, and other townspeople. The subject of his speech ran chiefly along the line of the history of Psychology and its steady advance. He stated that there are two views which scholars have taken toward this subject—namely, the Apollinian and Dionysian views. The speaker further stated that Psychology as a whole has been somewhat neglected, and because of this, several new volumes have been written. The question that arose in the minds of the Psychologists of old was “What is the nature of man?” The Apollinian view is an intellectual view, which regards man as a reasonable being, and which consists of the same components as other bodies with the exception of the soul. On the other hand, the Dionysian view is not so easily defined; it recognizes much in nature which we cannot understand.

Those of the Apollinian view believe that nature is rational—man is a creature of vague impulses, of which he has very little knowledge. In the rivalry between two ways of thinking, the Apollinian view has always been in favor, being both mechanical and rational. This favorable view knew how to deal with facts of motivation, hence condemns itself to problems of science, which furnishes pursuits for amateurs. This fact exposes a defect in this mode of thinking. France and Italy adopted this view toward Psychology. It is an objective study of human nature, making an assumption that man is a machine and nothing more—a mechanical system.

Those taking the Dionysian view do not claim to understand man through and through, but only observe man in his outward impulse; that is, something underlies his actions. In the middle of the Nineteenth Century, the Dionysian view began in full force, which was more productive and which brought Psychology to the supreme test. This is the American way of thinking.

SEVERAL CHANGES MADE IN FACULTY

There will be few new members of the faculty for the session of 1929-30. Two members of the present faculty will spend next year in study. Professor Gorr will do graduate work at the University of Pennsylvania and Professor Blythe has a leave of absence for a trip to Spain. James Truesdale will take Professor Gorr’s place in the Greek and German Departments, having been an exceptionally good student in these subjects at Duke University where he graduated last year with a Bachelor of Arts degree. He is taking his Master of Arts degree at Duke this year. Truesdale was Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, and one of Duke's candidates for a Rhodes Scholarship. He was editor of the college annual and soloist in the glee club last year. He is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. W. R. Weaver, a present senior here, will take Professor Blythe’s place for one year. He will study at the Middlebury College in Vermont this summer in preparation for his new duties. Weaver has been an exceptionally good student during his four years here in Davidson, especially in Spanish. He has been an Honor Student several times and is at present a Student Assistant in Spanish. He is from Hickory, N. C., and is a member of the following organizations: Spanish Club, Reporters Club, and the Theta Upsilon Omega social fraternity. Professor Schenck, who has been on leave of absence this year, will return next year to take his place as Professor of Bible.

Fraternities Re-opened

Notwithstanding the fact that all the fraternity halls were recently closed to ladies by regulation of the faculty, Dr. M. E. Sentelle, dean of the college, has permitted a reopening of the halls for Sunday, May 12, so that exercises, in observance of Mother’s Day, may be held during the afternoon. The halls will be opened after the morning church service until about seven-thirty o’clock Sunday night, and a large number of mothers are expected to be at Davidson on that day.

SOPH DAY IS HELD UNDER AUTHORITY OF CLASS OF ’31

Queerly-Clad Freshmen Appear on Campus During Day

ABSENTEES PENALIZED

Mock Track Meet is a Feature of Annual Day of Humiliation to Freshman Class

Following an ancient and honorable tradition, the sophomore class reigns supreme to the humiliation of the rats all day today. “No man will be excused unless sick in bed at the hospital, or called home by sickness, death, and the like. Any freshman skipping Soph day will be under penalty to wear coat, vest, and yellow cap, until the end of school, besides being tried by the Court of Control and punished to the limit.” Immediately after chapel, the fun began. All freshmen have been backing around barefooted wearing large placards with "31" written on them. They were clad in overcoats worn backwards. Ten of the shining lights of '32 donned the golden caps of ill-favor while the rest had to be contented with wearing the ordinary red caps. Throughout the day, the campus was patrolled by these queerly-clad individuals, carrying guns and operating in reverse. Whenever a freshman met an upperclassman, he tipped his cap and said, “Sir.” When he met another freshman, he bowed to the ‘31 on the placard. To see that the freshmen reported for patrol duty, etc., and to enforce the rules in general, there were in addition to the self-appointed supporters of the law an officer for every hall. All upperclassmen were instructed to refrain from running errands for the unfortunate rats, although they were not allowed to go into the drug store or picture show until after supper. There is no rule against an upperclassman’s attending the picture show by proxy for a freshman, however. The freshmen are performing in a mock track meeting this afternoon.

STUDENT OFFICERS CONVENE AT SALEM

Many Delegates From North Carolina Schools Attend the Conference

The Joint Student Officers Training Conference of North Carolina met at Salem College in Winston-Salem, on April 27, and continued until noon April 29. The conference was to train the “Y” leaders throughout the state in their various duties and to discuss their problems. Delegates from Carolina, N. C. State, Duke, N. C. C. W., Salem College, Guilford, Asheville Teachers’ College, Eastern Carolina Teachers’ College, and Davidson attended, and received much that was helpful to them in their work. The delegate from Davidson was Dean Rusk. Saturday was registration day for the delegates. Later supper was served and a Campfire Program presented. On Sunday morning, Mr. Harry Bone spoke. This was followed by a get-together talk by Mr. Loomis; dinner; discussion of the problems of the various colleges; tea by the Salem girls; supper and an address by Doctor Rondthaler. Monday was given over mainly to the election of officers and selection of the next meeting place for the Conference. The Conference closed with an address by Miss Mears, followed by lunch.

New Coach

Red Laird, star Davidson athlete, will be an addition to the coaching staff next fall.

LAIRD IS SECURED TO HELP COACHING STAFF NEXT YEAR

Was Awarded Norris Trophy Cup in His Sophomore Year

WILL AID YOUNGER

Laird Comes from University School for Boys Where He Has Coached for Past Season

Reports from Atlanta that G. F. (Red) Laird had been secured by Davidson College athletic authorities as an additional member of the coaching staff here were verified by Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, athletic director of Davidson, who stated that the former Davidson athlete had been secured as a special assistant to Coach Younger “with a view to working out a more definite policy in relation to intercollegiate and intramural sports.” Captain Pritchett added that Laird would be assigned to coach several of the freshman athletic teams. The Davidson director also stated that it is a later intention of the department of physical education to inaugurate a systematic course in physical development of those not taking part in collegiate sports, and because of the well-rounded development of Laird in three major sports, it was believed he will be the logical man to assist the authorities in this development. “Red” Laird is a name well-known in North Carolina circles. For four years he represented Davidson College on the gridiron, basketball court, and diamond and while a sophomore here was voted the best all-round athlete and awarded the Norris Trophy Cup. He coached the Catawba College teams for two years, and has been with the University School for Boys in Atlanta during the past season.

Vitaphone Picture Shown in Davidson

The owners of the Davidson Theatre were hosts to the students and people of Davidson on Monday afternoon at the first all-talking movie ever shown in Davidson. The picture shown was “The Trial of Mary Dugan.” Only very few parts of the dialogue were not clear and on a whole the picture was a success. The object of the show was to get the students’ opinion on talkies. Unless it is the will of the students to have sound pictures, the vitaphone equipment will be sent back to the manufacturer. If talking pictures are continued to be shown, the price of admittance will (Continued on page 4)

PROFESSOR WRITES ANONYMOUS REVIEW OF LAST MAGAZINE

Finds Liveliness is Prevailing Mood of Spring “Chameleon”

LAUDS POETIC CONTENT

Thinks Short Stories Not so Good as Verse—Lack of Essays Noted

In its last appearance for the year, the April Chameleon flaunts its favorite color, brilliant red. The gay note struck by the cover is also found in the contents; the prevailing mood is liveliness. Almost half of the pages are devoted to poetry. In the special poetic section, the leading contributors to the magazine for the past year are characterized in a series of epigrammatic verses worthy of the divine Dorothy herself. The gay note runs through many of the other lyrics; some are good, some not so good. One of the best, Dreams, is spoiled by one poor line and a false rhyme. There is considerable variety of mood and rhythm in the lyrics, though the verb, to dream, seems somewhat overworked. Question stands out amongst its more or less sentimental companions.As presenting serious thought in compressed form, of the sonnets, Worship is by all odds the best, though the sequence of four contains some striking lines. Philan’s Quest, a long poem in blank verse, deserves its position in the first six pages of the magazine. It contains some of the best poetry written at Davidson in many a day. There is nothing amateurish in either conception or execution. The thought moves logically from beginning to end. The blank verse is varied in movement, and the thought runs easily from line to line. The language is, in the main, dignified and sonorous, but changes with the mood of the poem to include modern scientific terms and colloquial expressions. To weave “pithecanthropus” and “streptococcus” into blank verse requires skill. The two lyrics, though they serve well to break the long succession of blank verse lines, are not so good as the other parts of the poem. Though the tone of the poem is serious, its rapidity of movement gives a liveliness, which, as has been said, is the keynote of the whole magazine.

The three short stories are hardly so good as the verse. The Battle of Martini is a lively war story, based on an original theme. The idea is better than the execution. The Forbidden City contains some good descriptive touches; in fact, the descriptive passages are much better than the narrative, though both are lively enough. The most startling detail of this series of startling episodes is the fact that the baby, when discovered, is only five hours old. The Means and the End has a good basic idea, but its development and its general style could be improved. The two most serious faults of the magazine are its total lack of essays (though the wealth of verse may compensate for this) and the large number of typographical errors.

To Be Held On Lawn

On Sunday, May 5, the first open-air “Y” vesper service of the year will be held. If the weather permits, the remaining services of the year will be held out of doors, except the Mother's Day program. These meetings are to be conducted just to the rear of the Y. M. C. A. The rising Junior class is in charge of the vespers on May 5. No definite program has been announced, but a very interesting one has been planned according to the President of the class, C. H. Goodykoontz. There will be several musical selections rendered by the townspeople and members of the student body. Also, a number of responsive readings will be on the program. There will be no speaker. The Freshman class will conduct the services on May 19, while the Sophomore class will be in charge for the final vesper service of the school year. Each year when the weather becomes warm and the attendance begins to drop, the “Y” service is held out under the campus elms. This has in past years increased the attendance almost a hundred percent and it is hoped that this year will bring the same result.

Inspection of Davidson R.O.T.C. Is Conducted By Government Officers

Quips and Cranks

All the material for the “Quips and Cranks” has been handed in to the printers. The last of the pictures have been sent to the engravers, and the only work left for the editors is the reading and correcting of copies. Half of the proof for the annual has been read, and the rest will be reviewed this week. The Editor, Bob Covington, hopes to have the yearbook in the hands of the students by May 15.

WAKE FOREST PRES. DELIVERS ADDRESS BEFORE O.D.K. MEN

Is Considered Very Prominent Orator and Outstanding Scholar

SPEAKS ON CHARACTER

Large Number of Students Hear Dr. Gaines Give Talks

Tuesday night, April 23, Dr. Francis P. Gaines, president of Wake Forest College and a prominent orator and outstanding scholar, delivered an inspiring and instructive address before the recently elected members of the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity. Doctor Richards, Davidson Bible professor, opened the program with an invocation prayer, followed by the introduction of the speaker by Professor Williams. The phase of Doctor Gaines’ talk was “the somewhat savage onset of intelligence upon the stronghold of character.” Using this thought as his subject, he emphasized the following points: Personality is one of the component parts which go to make up leadership. For a long time, there has been a growing hostility arising between the forces of character and intelligence. The modern intelligentsia are the great leaders in this war, the method resorted to being ridicule. Character is necessary for leadership, and is a force by which men reach great heights. If we think that character is based upon the physical or mental, then it is liable to fall. Character is neither confidence nor conceit but is a thing which keeps pace with intelligence. There is a great influence which the qualities of character exercise upon intelligence and we realize that this must be added to intelligence in order to attain leadership. Character is the work and not the individual man. Man has willed himself to be no longer an individual but has moved out into the world to work with his friends. In the elements of humanity are included the character, the openness of life, and soul leadership, all three of which enable the leader to become fortified against discouragements. The world is becoming increasingly standardized and more ideals have died during the last generation than in any other. For the closing thought of his address, Doctor Gaines brought out the necessity of one chief element, that of piety, to attain real leadership.

HARDRE TALKS ON FRENCH HOLIDAYS

Is French Professor at North Carolina College for Women

Speaking at the invitation of the Cercle Francais, local honorary French club, Prof. Rene Hardre, of N. C. C. W., made an address in French on the subject of French National Holidays last Wednesday night in Shearer Hall. Professor Hardre is a native Frenchman from Turenne. He has been in this country for some time, as he taught at Middlebury College, Vt., before he took his professorship at N. C. C. W. This was not his first appearance at Davidson; he spoke here last year also in French on the subject of French boarding schools. His address was not a scientific description of all or even the most important (Continued on page 4)

Majors Holiday and Allan Remark Favorably on Condition of Unit

OUTCOME NOT YET KNOWN

Calisthenics Unusually Good; Uniform Appearance and Execution of Commands Are Highly Praised by Inspectors

Annual inspection of the Davidson unit R. O. T. C. was held here Friday, April 26. Inspection on the field lasted from 11:40 till 1:30. The two inspectors, Major Ralph C. Holiday and Major Oliver Allan, arrived at Davidson Thursday afternoon, April 25. After calling on Doctor Martin, they came to the armory where they inspected the records, equipment, arms, and clothing. From the armory, they went to the rifle range and maneuver grounds, drill field, and indoor rifle range. All of these seemed very satisfactory to the inspectors. They were entertained that night at dinner by Col. and Mrs. Scott. The guests included Dr. and Mrs. Martin, Capt. and Mrs. Elkins, Lieut. Beckett, and Miss Reid, aunt of Capt. Elkins. The officers spent the first three periods of Friday morning inspecting classes. Those that were inspected were: Senior R. O. T. C. 3D; Sophomore R. O. T. C. 2D; Junior R. O. T. C. 2K; and Freshman R. O. T. C. 1K. The battalion formed on the “D” as usual, and, headed by the band, marched to Sprunt field. The inspection there was begun by the customary calisthenics given by the entire battalion under the command of Major M. M. King. These exercises were executed with unusual order and snap. The inspectors remarked most favorably on the uniform appearance, since every man was wearing a white shirt; the perfectly timed execution; and the novel system of having the battalion give the commands. After calisthenics, the battalion proceeded with the regular Wednesday afternoon drill. The battalion was then turned over to Majors Holiday and Allan, who proceeded with an inspection marked by unusual thoroughness. Every rifle in the battalion was inspected, all the band instruments, and all the uniforms. They commented very approvingly on all of these things. Upon completion of the inspection, the battalion was assembled, marched back to the armory, and dismissed. It will be some time before the exact outcome is learned, but it is hoped and believed that the distinguished rating will again be conferred upon the Davidson R. O. T. C.

PENICK DELIVERS TALK AT VESPERS

Bishop E. A. Penick, of the Episcopal Church, gave a very interesting address on “Faith,” Sunday evening at the vesper services in Shearer Hall. He used as his text, “For he that cometh to God must believe that he is and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him.” R. G. Calhoun led the singing, assisted by Frank Pilcher at the piano. G. P. Pardington sang a special solo and S. V. Brown read as the scripture the eleventh chapter of Hebrews. Bishop Penick said faith was treated under two heads in the Bible; objective faith and subjective faith. The former relates to what God has done for man. It is what we refer to when we speak of the “Christian Faith.” At present we are thinking of the latter or subjective faith. It is our response to what God has done for us. One of the best definitions of faith is that of the Mystic Shrine. “Faith,” he says, “is the response of the whole personality to one’s spiritual environment.” “Whole” is the important word in this definition. Man is a thinking being yet reason doesn’t create or originate faith in God. It merely shows us the reliability of our Godward instincts. Only to use one’s mind in seeking after God is not the response of the whole personality. The tendrils of the soul reach out and apprehend things which escape the intellect. The human will sums up the whole personality. It is the citadel of the soul and determines one’s thoughts and feelings. Therefore, if we surrender our (Continued on page 4)