THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1929

SOCIETY NEWS

Parties were given by four of the Davidson social fraternities during the past weekend. The names of guests, and of
Alumni present are given below:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Miss Eleanor McKinnon, Hartsville, S. C.

Phi Delta Theta—Misses Caroline Jervy, Christie Maynard, and Mary Frances Padgett, all of N. C. C. W; Eleanor Kincaid and
“Sissy” Stokes, of Charlotte; Olive Singleton, of Shelby; Evelyn Erwin, of Lincolnton; and Messrs. Johny McKnight and Charlie Lanier of
Charlotte, Bob Wilson and Jules Squires of Greensboro.

Beta Theta Pi—Misses Edith Parker, Gastonia; Orchard Lafferty, of Concord; Brantly Nichols, Amelia Bruns, Sara Wheeler, Henrietta Whisnant, Connie Burwell,
and Edna McCoy, all of Charlotte; Lola Miller, Annie Lyle Miller, Katherine Ganey, Irene Todd, and Virginia Clardy, all of
Winthrop.

Phi Gamma Delta—Misses Mary Anna James, Mary Patterson, Irma Edmondson, and Lola Best, of Charlotte; Jane Johnson and Babe Hatcher
of N. C. C. W.; Charlotte Hunter, Davidson; Lucy Follin and Margaret Gorrell of Winston-Salem; Flora McNeill, Converse; Mrs. K.
P. Hogan, Winston-Salem; Messrs. D. G. Wilson, Rock Hill, S. C.; M. N. Hall, Belmont; J. S. Foster, C. L.
Creech, and D. J. Chipman, of Winston-Salem.

Few Changes Planned For College Magazine

“Few changes are contemplated for the Chameleon,” declared R. F. Jarratt, editor of the magazine. He further stated that the
first issue would probably appear about the first of December. Short stories and sketches will form the basis of each
edition, while poems, essays, and book reviews will be interspersed. Jarratt did not definitely state whether there would be a
poetry section as in last year’s numbers. Traditions regarding the changes in color, make-up, and general appearance of the magazine
will in all probability remain as usual.

Jarratt heads the editorial staff, as editor-in-chief. It will be remembered that he is president of the North Carolina Intercollegiate
Press Association. Departmental members of the staff follow: F. D. Miller, Poetry Editor; D. P. Anderson, Essay Editor; J. W.
McCutchan, Short Story Editor; and C. M. Pratt, Review Editor. Chameleon has as its business manager, E. L. Roberson. Junior
assistants to him are: J. G. Berry, J. H. Henderlite, W. Wharton, and G. E. McClenaghan. At present, tentative plans
call for the publication of three editions, one before and two after Christmas.

Never before has the Chameleon lost such a wealth of writers in one year. Browne McQueen, last year’s editor, was
well known by his short stories, sketches, and poems. Frank Hall was one of the most appealing poets who has
ever written on the Davidson campus. Boggess and Johnson were particularly active in the line of essays, skits, and reviews.
All of these men graduated in the class of 1929. There appears to be a good quantity of material in
the present Sophomore and Freshman classes. Perhaps most worthy of note is the return of Bob Witt, who was quite
active during his Freshman year.

Many Southern Schools To Be Met By Debaters

Six Varsity Members to Form Nucleus of Team

“With six of the eight debaters who composed last year’s team returning and three of the Freshman team to aid
them, Davidson should have a debating team that will ably uphold its past standard,” said R. M. Christian, president of
the Forensic Council. The members of the varsity who are returning are: Long, McGuire, Matthews, Christian, Marsh, and Pritchett. Although
the loss of s and Grady will be greatly felt, with Rule, Kurkendall, and Knox of last year’s Freshman to
fill in, the team should be able to match eloquence with any of her rivals.

The schedule has not been definitely arranged, but it is very probable that William and Mary and Richmond University will
debate here, while a southern trip will include Birmingham-Southern, Ala.

CLEMSON TIGERS USE AIR (Continued from page 3)

thing in their power to hold those Clemson thrusts, and succeeded to a degree which amazed even their most ardent
supporters. Backing up that line were four backs whose work was but slightly less sensational than that of the line.
Always ready to plug up a hole, should one appear, and often tackling an elusive Tiger who had skirted the
line, the secondary defense matched the fight of the line and did much to keep the score down.

Fraley, at fullback, and King at halfback, tackled viciously and rarely missed getting their man. King was down fast under
punts, once or twice stopping the receiver dead in his tracks. Fraley played a steady game backing up the line
until he was forced out of the game by injuries. Captain Thad Brock turned in another of his sensational all-around
performances. On the defensive, he smeared many plays intended to come around or through his position. On the offense his
work was equally as brilliant and consistent. Brown, on the other flank, also proved a mainstay in the line.

In the backfield, Tom Brohard stepped through and around his opponents for consistent gains throughout the game. His work was
not as flashy as some of his mates, but his steadiness made up for it. McCall was another backfield man
who ripped off many substantial gains, besides making the long run for a touchdown in the fourth quarter. “Red” Parrish
played a game which matched or surpassed his game last week. He almost stole the honor of making a touchdown
from a kickoff by running seventy yards in the first quarter. He caught a Tiger kick on his own goal,
and ran clear through the Clemson team, only to be overhauled from behind and pulled down on the Tiger 30-yard
marker. He later recovered a fumble to score the first ’Cat touchdown.

For Clemson, the outstanding stars were chiefly in the backfield and on the ends. Johnny Justus, the Tigers’ nominee for
all-Southern honors, lived up to the advance notices concerning him. He was a sensational performer throughout the game, especially on
returning punts. He shot and sidestepped by would-be tacklers to return the ball on nearly every punt. “Goat” McMillan pushed
his teammate for first honors in carrying the ball, getting around end for several nice runs. His passing proved the
deciding factor in the game, for it was by an aerial attack that Clemson was able to put over nearly
all of its tallies. McCarley and Pickelsimer played good games in the backfield also. Padgett, at end, was on the
receiving end of many of McMillan’s heaves. The Clemson line was able to hold the Wildcats in check on most
of the offensive attempts they made.

Davidson's first score came after Parrish’s long run in the first quarter. Brohard carried the ball to the 11-yard line,
and when he fumbled at the goal, Parrish grabbed the ball for a touchdown. The other ’Cat score came as
a result of McCall’s run in the fourth quarter. Captain Brock kicked both extra points.

Clemson scored their first touchdown in the first quarter. McMillan advanced the ball down the field by his passing, and
Justus carried it around end for the touchdown. In the second quarter, their passing again put the Tigers in scoring
position, but the ’Cats braced on their two-yard line, and it took four hard plunges to carry the ball over.
The third quarter brought no scores, both teams fighting in midfield and content merely to limit their playing to an
exchange of punts. However, in the last quarter, Clemson opened their passing attack once more. McMillan passed to Woodruff for
a net gain of thirty yards, and the third Clemson touchdown. On the following kickoff, McCall made his sensational run
for the last Davidson marker. Clemson recovered a ’Cat fumble in midfield, and again McMillan was called on. Standing on
the fifty-yard line, he made a perfect pass into the arms of Padgett, who was standing on the goal line.It
was the Tigers who used only straight line plays and end runs to get their last score over the fast-tiring
Davidson team. Sowell carried the ball over after he, McCarley, and Hallman had carried it down the field to the
seven-yard line. The game ended as Sowell was forced out of bounds on the ’Cat twenty-yard line after a nice
run around the left end. Line-up and summary:

Woodruff --------- LE --------- Brock (C)
Collins ----------- LT --------- Covington
Ginnels ----------- LG --------- DeCamp
Gresham --------- Center ------ Mason
Magill ------------ RG --------- Mathis
Stafford ---------- RT --------- Raker
Padgett (C) ------ RE --------- Brown
Justus ----------- QB --------- McCall
Brohard ---------- LH --------- McMillan
McCauley -------- RH --------- Fraley
Score by quarters:
Clemson: 7 7 0 18—32
Davidson: 7 0 0 7—14

Officials—Harry Hartsell (N. C. State), referee; Rip Major (Auburn), umpire; Dad Brice (Auburn), headlinesman; Clarence Rawson (Georgia), field judge.

Scoring — Clemson: Touchdowns, Justus, McCarley, Woodruff, Padgett, Sowell, substitute for McMillan. Davidson: Parrish, McCall. Points after touchdown, Clemson—McCarley 2;
placement kicks—Davidson, Brock 2; placement kicks, substitutes, Clemson—McCauley, Pickelsimer, Siegel, Gassoway, Hallman, C. Fleming, Dyess, J. Rogers, Asbill, Woodruff, Jones,
Welsh, Harvin, and Yarborough; Davidson—King, Parker, Milton, Baker, McQueen, Warren, Proctor, McConnell, Bradshaw.

Memorial Fund Is Sought To Honor Duke Brothers

Due to the philanthropic spirits and deeds of the late J. B. Duke and his brother, the late B. N.
Duke, their many friends have during the last spring and summer put forward the project of founding a memorial in
their honor. Much interest has been shown and the matter is being pushed forward as rapidly as possible. When one
considers just what the Duke Foundation means to Davidson College, it is readily seen that the friends of Davidson should
properly have some part in this memorial. As yet no action has been taken (by Davidson). The project was not
learned of until the eve of commencement when it was too late for anything to be said or done about
it at the time. It is hoped that everyone connected with Davidson in any way and every alumnus and every
friend of Davidson may make some contribution to this fund. Anyone wishing to make a contribution may be assured that
all gifts will be appreciated, no matter how large or small.

Westminster Magistrate: “Speeding, eh! How many times have you been before me?”
Speeder: “Never, your Honor. I’ve tried to pass you on the road once or twice, but my old bus will
only do 55.”

Best Quality and Prices
ANY TYPE OF PRINTING
Earnest H. McCall
Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Watts Football Schedule For N. C. Announced

University of North Carolina
Sept. 27—Wake Forest at Chapel Hill.
Oct. 5—Uni. of Maryland at Maryland.
Oct. 11—Georgia Tech at Atlanta.
Oct. 19—Uni. of Ga. at Chapel Hill.
Oct. 26—V. P. I. at Chapel Hill.
Nov. 2—N. C. State at Chapel Hill.
Nov. 9—Uni. of S. C. at Columbia.
Nov. 16—Davidson at Davidson.
Nov. 28—Uni. of Va. at Chapel Hill.
Dec. 2—Duke at Durham.

Duke University
Sept. 28—Mercer at Macon.
Oct. 5—Pittsburgh at Durham.
Oct. 19—Navy at Annapolis.
Oct. 26—Villa Nova at Philadelphia.
Nov. 2—Boston College at Boston.
Nov. 9—Louisville at Durham.
Nov. 16—N. C. State at Durham.
Nov. 23—Wake Forest at Durham.
Nov. 28—Davidson at Davidson.
Dec. 2—Carolina at Durham.

North Carolina State
Oct. 4—W. & L. at Raleigh.
Oct. 11—Clemson at Florence.
Oct. 17—Wake Forest at Raleigh.
Oct. 26—Michigan State at Lansing.
Nov. 2—Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Nov. 9—Davidson at Raleigh.
Nov. 16—Duke at Durham.
Nov. 23—Villa Nova at Philadelphia.
Nov. 30—Uni. of S. C. at Raleigh.
Dec. 7—Miss. A. & M. at Starkville.

Wake Forest College
Sept. 21—Catawba at Wake Forest.
Sept. 28—Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Oct. 5—Uni. of Richmond at Richmond.
Oct. 11—Elon at Wake Forest.
Oct. 17—N. C. State at Raleigh.
Oct. 26—Davidson at Greensboro.
Nov. 2—Furman at Greenville.
Nov. 9—Wofford at Spartanburg.
Nov. 16—Navy at Annapolis.
Nov. 19—Presbyterian at Wake Forest.
Nov. 23—Duke at Durham.
Nov. 28—Mercer at Asheville.

Elon College
Sept. 21—Davidson at Davidson.
Sept. 28—Catawba at Elon.
Oct. 5—Atlantic Chr. College at Elon.
Oct. 12—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
Oct. 19—High Point at High Point.
Nov. 2—Guilford at Guilford.
Nov. 16—Emory & Henry at Elon.
Nov. 28—Lenoir-Rhyne at Hickory.

Philosophy Is Topic Of Walker’s Address

Mr. Walker, pastor of the State College Presbyterian Church at Raleigh, N. C., gave a very helpful and thought-provoking talk
at “Y" Vespers Sunday on “The Connotation of ‘The Word’ in the first few verses of John’s Gospel.” C. C.
and R. B. Orr played a very beautiful violin duet accompanied by Frank Pilcher. Prayers were offered by Dean Rusk
and J. D. McConnell and Don King read the scripture and introduced the speaker.

Mr. Walker invited us to go with him on a thinking tour of philosophy in general up to the time
of John to understand the influences under which John was writing. Heracleitus, one of the earliest of Greek philosophers, was
the first to be visited. He believed that the universe was formed of one basic energy which he called fire,
logos, or God. Anaxagoras followed him and considered nous, mind, to be the basic energy and Plato, enlarging on this,
stated that it was the reflection of ideas of a divine mind or intelligence. Aristotle believed it was the development
of the mind in many different ways. But the Stoics thought there was a life force or seminal logos at
the bottom of the universe.

Philo, an Alexandrian Jew, tried to reconcile the Greek Philosophy with the Old Testament saying that God created the world
through logos as an agent. John associated with the Greek philosophers a great deal and understood their line of thinking
so he took their word logos and gave it a Christian connotation. The defects of the Greek philosophy, said Mr.
Walker, when compared with the Christian faith are three. In the first place, it is purely speculation while Christianity is
based on the absolute fact of Jesus Christ. Secondly, their philosophy fails to confirm any moral laws. Jesus’ way of
life grips the consciences of man and gives us the fundamental law of human relationships, love. Lastly, the Greeks had
no driving motive and no personal deity as a subject for man’s love and trust. On the other hand, Christianity
calls for devotion and trust that abstract philosophy could never bring out.

Christ said, “I am the way, the truth, and the life; no man cometh unto the Father but by me.
Come and see God as he is manifest in the flesh.” If we consider this to be true, let us
act on our beliefs.

Corrections

Corrections or more complete addresses on 1929 graduates were obtained during the past week as follows:
B. F. Brown, Paw Creek, N. C.
R. M. Clifton, Box 514, Duke University, Durham.
W. L. Dumas, Jr., 66 Kirkland St., Cambridge, Mass.
F. N. Littlejohn, Schoolfield, Va.
C. H. Mauzy, care Mrs. W. C. Gawson, 17th & Gordon Ave., University, Va.
T. M. Northrop, 1737 H St., N. Washington, D.C.
W. E. Phifer, Princeton, N. J.
J. T. Roddey, Jr., 12 Sumner Road, Cambridge, Mass.
Hyton Hall, W., Jr., 314 Hodge Hall, Princeton, N. J.

All Suits Delivered at Store
STETSON “D” STORE
OPPOSITE CAMPUS
Complete Line of Furnishings
Bostonian and John Ward Shoes $34.50

“FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Drugs
WELCOME
A Complete Drug Store
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Soda, Sundries, Prescriptions
