Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN February 14, 1929

ALUMNI NEWS

Alumni Council Acted Upon Several Important Matters On Last Monday

Motion Pictures of Campus and Carolina-Davidson Football Game Were Shown

MANY MOTIONS PASSED

Council Approved Plan of Enlarging Personnel of That Body—Alumni Secretary Will Submit Various Proposals

One of the most important meetings in the history of the Davidson College Alumni Council was held in the offices
of Dr. J. P. Matheson, '99, in Charlotte, last Monday night, with Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, '06, president; Dr. Oren
Moore, '08, Rev. J. C. Rowan, D.D., '04, Rev. John McSween, '08, vice-president of the association and president of Presbyterian
College, F. L. Jackson, '06, and Ernest Milton, '26, alumni secretary, attending. James C. Harper, '15, of Lenoir, came to
Charlotte at the request of the alumni secretary, to show motion pictures which he had taken of the Carolina-Davidson football
game on Home-Coming Day, and other campus scenes of Davidson filmed at a later date. He had other rolls of
film with him, and showed some of them. The secretary explained that the object of Mr. Harper's visit was to
show the worthwhileness of investing in such equipment for use at the local alumni meetings throughout the country. The committee
discussed the matter, passed a motion approving the idea, but concluded that the financial condition of the association would not
permit its present purchase. They expressed the opinion that it would be an excellent idea for the college to invest
in such apparatus, and appointed Messrs. Jackson and Milton to investigate.

An enlargement of the Alumni Council was next proposed by the secretary. He tentatively outlined the constituency of a council
to include three representatives from each class—the president, secretary and one elected at large—and the officers of the local alumni
associations, with an executive committee to operate similar to the present council. This question was extensively discussed and universally approved
as an acceptable idea. The personnel of the council received consideration from different angles. The final action was a motion,
which was made and passed, that the alumni secretary submit to the individual members of the council, by mail, several
suggested plans of a larger alumni council, and that after due deliberation and correspondence discussion that the president of the
council call another meeting for definite and concrete action.

A financial report of the condition of the Alumni Association was presented by the alumni secretary. Lengthy deliberation followed which
resulted in two motions. The first authorized the president to appoint a committee to appear before the budget committee of
the board of trustees and ask for an appropriation of $2,000.00 for the alumni office in lieu of the $1,000.00
which is now appropriated by the college. The second motion instructed the alumni secretary to take up the matter of
financing alumni activity with all of the local alumni associations, and to inform the officers that it was the consensus
of the alumni council opinion that it was through them that the office would be financed.

Brief consideration was given to the nominating of officers and alumni trustees, the names of whom would be sent to
the alumni on a mail ballot. Due to the lateness of the hour, definite action on this was postponed, the
president urging the members of the council to have this matter under consideration. The secretary was instructed to send each
man a copy of the alumni catalogue for use in making choices.

New Addresses

Watt McCain, '24, Care Mathieson Alkali Works, 250 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.
A. F. Carr, Jr., '31, Mt. Vernon, Ga.
Rev. H. F. Beaty, '03, Box 122, Gulf Hammock, Fla.
J. C. Montgomery, '28, 3733 Locust St., Philadelphia, Pa.
W. A. Murray, '26, Care Ernst and Ernst, Winston-Salem, N. C.
Anderson, '25, Brown and Williamson Tobacco Co., Louisville, Ky.
Rev. E. S. Currie, '12, Haichow, Kiangsu, China.
A. G. Wright, '25, Box 785, Knoxville, Tenn.
Dr. A. P. Ormond, '21, Stow, Ohio.
W. D. Cromartie, '90, Altoona, Fla.
E. E. Routh, '11, Care Mathieson Alkali Works, 250 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.
M. D. Thomason, '25, 834 Stahlman Building, Nashville, Tenn.
Waddell Williams, '29, 6308 Willard Ave., Shreveport, La.
W. A. McAulay, '25, Brown and Williamson Tobacco Co., Louisville, Ky.
J. K. Morrison, '16, President, Brighton Mills, Inc., Passaic, N. J.
C. A. Ohsiek, 539 W. 112th St., Apartment 5-B, New York, N. Y.
R. M. Torrence, '15, 1111 Oval Drive, Durham, N. C.
J. W. Bracey, '26, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.
W. E. Bain, '27, Burlington, N. C.

Boxing Tournament Feb. 20th and 21st

All Classes to be Represented in Meet

An Interclass Boxing Tournament has been planned and the probable dates are February 20th and 21st. It is hoped that
each class will be represented in each of the seven classes. The classes are: Bantam, 120 pounds; Feather, 130 pounds;
Light, 140 pounds; Welter, 150 pounds; Middle, 160 pounds; Light-heavy, 175; Heavy, unlimited. All bouts will be limited to three
one-minute rounds. In case of a “draw” one additional round will be fought. In the case that the participants desire
them, sixteen-ounce gloves will be used instead of the ten-ounce gloves prescribed by the Intercollegiate Rules. Any man who is
in fair physical condition should be able to participate without any fear of exhaustion.

Medals in the form of gold chain charms with the likeness of two boxers superimposed have been ordered. These charms
have a ring attached for use on a chain. These awards will be given to those winning first place in
each class. A meeting was held of the principals and “seconds” in the basement of Chambers Monday afternoon for the
discussion of the Intercollegiate Rules and other matters pertaining to the tournament. All those wishing to participate should see Captain
Pritchett and the others in charge each afternoon at 4:15 for instruction and help.

A meeting was called for all the boxers of the Senior Class and a goodly number responded to the call.
The men in charge of the entries for the Senior Class do not wish to divulge any names at the
present time. There are several men from this class who have had much experience in amateur boxing and they should
furnish plenty of competition for the other classes. The Seniors are hoping to enter a representative in each weight class.
It is sincerely hoped that the other classes will follow in line with the Seniors and enter men in as
many weights as possible.

CHARLOTTE KNOXVILLE S&W Cafeterias are catering to you ATLANTA ASHEVILLE RALEIGH

MANY CITIES ARE INCLUDED IN TWO PROPOSED TRIPS

Approximately Twenty Local Alumni Meetings Planned For South and East

NEW ASSOCIATIONS

Cities Which Never Before Held Meetings Will Be on Itinerary—Hundreds of Alumni Will Be Reached

Two extensive alumni trips, with meetings of Davidson men in ten different cities in the south and east, are being
planned by the alumni secretary for the months of March and April, in addition to numerous other short jaunts which
will call for meetings at practically every point where a local alumni organization now exists. Among the number are included
cities where no association has been perfected.

The March trip will be similar to the one of last spring, when new associations were organized in Richmond, Va.,
Washington, D. C., and Baltimore, and when the secretary met with the Philadelphia alumni and the New York association. Mr.
Milton plans to extend the eastern trip this spring to Boston, Mass., because of the large number of Davidson alumni
who are transient alumni as Harvard students. No association will be organized in the Massachusetts city, but the object is
to keep the contact with the alumni while they pursue their studies.

In April the trip planned will be in a semi-circle, to include meetings in Atlanta, Ga., Chattanooga, Tenn., Nashville, Tenn.,
and Louisville, Ky., with a possible stop-over for another meeting at Asheville. No association exists in the Tennessee cities at
the present time, though a request has come to the alumni office from Nashville for an organization. Other pointsWhere the
secretary is to have meetings are Staunton, Va., Greensboro, Raeford, Fayetteville, Wilmington, Columbia, S.C., Rock Hill, S.C., Salisbury, and Laurinburg.
The latter city has no functioning organization at the present time, and the objective will be to re-organize. It is
roughly estimated by the alumni secretary that between 650 and 700 Davidson alumni will have an opportunity to attend these
meetings if arrangements can be made for all of them. He hopes.

WILDCATS WIN
(Continued from page 1)
was high point man with thirteen points, next in line was Calhoun with ten points. Coach Monk used his entire
squad in the contest with the Tech Gobblers. As a preliminary to the Davidson-V.P.I. game, the freshmen teams of the
two schools engaged on the basketball court and the Wildkittens nosed out the Tech Colts 32 to 26.

CURRENT COMMENT
(Continued from page 2)
$25,000 to be spent in policing the Hoover inauguration. There'll be a big time in the city of Washington next
March the fourth, and plenty will be needed to keep everything straight. The United States cigarette bill for 1928 was
almost exactly two billion dollars. And consumption for the year increased over 1927 by 8.7 billion cigarettes. It doesn’t seem
that the many New Year resolutions to cut down on smoking have been very effective.

Alumni Personals
Among the Davidson alumni on the campus for the Duke-Davidson basketball game on February 7 were I.P. Graham, ’08, of
Cooleemee; R.D. Hall, ’19, of Belmont; S.A. Robinson, '99, of Gastonia; L.H. Wilkinson, '13, Dr. D.H. Nisbet, '13, T.F. Marrow,
'25, Dr. Oren Moore, '08, B.T. Crayton, '26; B.W. McAulay, '28, Frank Hall, '20, J.C. McDonald, '15; P.O. Bethea, '22,
Geo. Neel, '22, and S.H. McDonald, '24, all of Charlotte; W.C. Gaither, '21, of Newton; T.G. Coltrane, '26, Press Faggart,
'26, Wade Leggette, '27, W.W. Morris, Jr., '25, and J.A. King, '27, all of Concord. Fred P. Johnson, '10, and
Mrs. Johnson, of Raeford, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Joe Ann, on February 5. W.E. Bain, '27, who
has been manager of the Mt. Airy branch of Belk Brothers, has been transferred to the managership of the Belk-Stevens
store at Burlington. Rev. F.F. Baker, '13, formerly missionary to Brazil, but now stationed at Hapeville, Ga., was in Concord
the first part of last week for a series of meetings at the First Presbyterian Church. Corporations in which Davidson
alumni are interested are Carolina Candy and Cigar Corporation, of Charlotte, of which W.W. Grier, '94, is a stockholder, and
the Cape Fear Apartments, Inc., of Wilmington, of which L.G. Hicks, '16, is a stockholder. Alumni visiting Davidson over the
weekend were Rev. Jos. R. Walker, '21, of Raleigh; J.B. Caldwell, '21, of Spencer; R.L. Black, '22, of Wilmington; Knox
Johnstone, '26, of Mocksville; W.M. Black, '26, of Salisbury; J.I. Smith, '24, of Greenville, S.C., and J.A. Cannon, '04, of
Concord. Born to Dr. J.W. Gibbon, '14, and Mrs. Gibbon, of Charlotte, a daughter, Mary, on December 21, 1928. A
contract for a million-dollar apartment house in Nashville, Tenn., has been awarded to Angle-Blackford Company, of Greensboro. Chas. W. Angle,
'18, is president of this concern. Dr. J.P. Munroe, '82, of Charlotte, has announced that a four-story addition will be
made to the Charlotte Sanatorium. Several Davidson alumni are connected with this hospital. H.M. McKethan, '09, of Fayetteville, is one
of the directors of the Chamber of Commerce in that city. Rev. Ben R. Lacy, D.D., '06, president of Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., was a visitor Tuesday. Dr. Robert E. Abell, '08, of Chester, S.C., has been elected president
of the Chester County Medical Association. Osmond L. Barringer, '97, of Charlotte, is one of three men in Charlotte who
have been appointed majors on the staff of General William A. Collier, commander-in-chief of Forest's Cavalry, affiliated with the United
Confederate Veterans. Rev. W.T. Thompson, D.D., '05, of Richmond, Va., member of the faculty of Union Theological Seminary, has been
selected to deliver the baccalaureate sermon at the University of South Carolina commencement on June 9. Two committees of the
board of trustees brought six Davidson alumni to the campus recently. The educational committee was composed of Rev. Walter Lingle,
D.D., '92, of Richmond, Va.; Smith Richardson, '06, of Greensboro, and Rev. Byron Clarke, D.D., '90, of Salisbury. The other
committee who inspected the buildings and grounds was composed of S. Clay Williams, '05, of Winston-Salem; J.A. Cannon, '04, of
Concord, and Geo. W. Hall, '95, of Hickory.

“Y Cats” Lose Game To Kannapolis Five
Kannapolis Five Wins Easy Game From Davidson “Y” Team
The Davidson “Y-Cats” dropped their second game of the season to a fast-playing and close-guarding Kannapolis five on the latter’s
floor. The “Y’s” offense was ragged, and the defense was easily penetrated by the fierce passing attack of the victors.
Kannapolis seemed able at will to pass the ball through the local’s defense and ring up snow-birds. It was their
unfailing accuracy under the basket that beat the hard-fighting Davidsonians. The “Y” put up a great scrap, anyway, and came
out of the fray glorious even in defeat. Peeler and Gilliam of Kannapolis proved the chief thorns in the flesh,
the former scoring 15 points to carry off the high-point laurels of the occasion.

SUMMARY
Davidson “Y” (17) Kannapolis (40)
Gilmour (3) rf E. Peeler (5)
Overman (2) lf Miller (5)
McGavock (2) c Gilliam (11)
Smith (4) rg S. Peeler (8)
Miller (2) lg Helms
Substitutions: Davidson: Crawford, Shepard (4), McCall; Kannapolis: Kelley, Widenhouse, McCorn. Referee: Fowler.

Alumni Marriages
Torrence-Glover
Robert Matthews Torrence, Davidson alumnus in the class of 1915, was married to Miss Maude Amelia Glover, in Charlotte, during
the Christmas holiday season, the ceremony occurring at the First Methodist Church. Mr. Torrence is a World War veteran, and
during 1917-1918 he was on the staff of General Pershing in the secret map room at Chaumont, France. Later he
was sent to West Point, where he installed maps. Since leaving the service he has been connected with construction companies,
and is now working with the Duke Construction Company, at Durham.

Murray-Elder
William Andrew Murray, Jr., '26, was married to Miss Sue Elder, of Charlotte, on Sunday, February 5, at York, S.C.
Mr. Murray is a certified public accountant and until recently was connected with the Charlotte firm of Todd and McCollough.
He is now located in Winston-Salem with Ernst and Ernst.

How They Shoot
Varsity Scoring
Player FG FP TP
Calhoun 39 13 91
Pritchett 31 8 70
Johnston 31 8 70
Russ 19 10 48
Goodson 5 6 16
McDougall 4 3 11
Shepherd 1 2 4
Wilson 0 1 1

Freshman Scoring
Player FG FP TP
Milton 3 6 12
Mathis 5 5 15
Martin 9 4 22
Hutaff (c) 5 3 13
Wagner 4 2 10
King 3 1 7
Montgomery 1 1 3
Brown 1 1 3

In New York City’s eighteen penal institutions, five million meals cost less than eight cents apiece last year. Sample menus
show why the food was so well received. Every day’s meals had a complete change from the day before. Eggs
and fresh vegetables were served regularly. Although the prisoners were allowed to send direct to the commissioner any complaint, there
was not a single one registered.

What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?
ANSWER No. 8
Could any call be clearer than that to imitate the only perfectly successful life? He came not to be ministered
unto but to minister. Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a happy and achieving life; perhaps we could
help you. Union Theological Seminary
