THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 10, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
E. H. BLACK

Business Manager
J. W. McCUTCHAN

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. C. RAGIN - Managing Editor
R. ALDERMAN - Athletic Editor
J. L. PRESTON - Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN - Feature Editor
F. B. JARRATT - Associate Editor
D. MILLER - Associate Editor
M. PRATT - Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. A. CANNON - Asst. Bus. Mgr.
B. BOYD - Subscription Mgr.
A. J. BAKER - Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY - Solicitor
J. H. McKINNON - Solicitor
J. O. MANN - Solicitor
J. B. RUPP - Solicitor
J. SEVIER - Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. S. HEEPNER - President
W. C. RAGIN - Vice-President
J. V. D. MIDDLETON - Secretary-Treasurer
J. G. BERRY
C. G. PEPPER
J. C. MATTHEWS
J. G. DUNKLIN
D. G. MARTIN
W. S. LEA
J. R. SMITH
C. W. SPENCER
D. O. STEPHENSON
W. T. HANCOCK
A. L. NOE
JOHN M. BROWN
W. DREES
G. P. PARDINGTON

OCTOBER 10, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
—Predicts a battle royal between the Wildcat and the Army mule.
—Has confidence in Monk Younger’s men to acquit themselves nobly.
—Feels better now that another game is in the “won” column.
—Hails the freshman eleven as the most likely looking bunch of recent years.
—Wants everybody to help make the Y’s House Party a great success.
—Needs more men who really want to write for the campus newspaper.
—Tries to appear on time each week, but asks for your forbearance when it is late.

FRATERNITY AND YOU
During the past week nearly one hundred members of the freshman class signified their intention of joining a college fraternity.
Tuesday night a week ago saw a period of intensive rushing come to a close, saw freshmen and fraternity men
alike heave great sighs of relief that the ordeal and worry was ended. Many men, both old and new at
the game, consider the incident closed, and are calmly awaiting initiation day, for as yet the freshmen are merely pledged,
and the most serious step has not been taken.

An attitude of passiveness at a time like this carries with it a serious threat to the future welfare and
happiness of all concerned in fraternity life. Any good fraternity holds up to its members a very definite set of
ideals, ideals based on the really worthwhile things of life, and it is for the adequate understanding and realization of
these great concepts that the period between pledging and initiation is inserted. Of course, the college must be satisfied that
the new man is able to pass enough work to justify his devoting part of his valuable time to fraternity
matters, and unless the pledge passes the majority of his subjects, he will be declared ineligible for initiation when February
rolls around. Hence, it behooves every would-be initiate to start from the very beginning, and not experience the folly and
disappointment of waiting too long.

Aside from the requirements of the college, the worthwhile fraternity will hold up scholarship as one of its most desirable
goals. Any freshman who desires to enjoy a rich fraternity life must determine to work for that order. He will
start to work in several phases of college activity immediately, proving his sincerity by sticking to his job faithfully, and
doing all in his power to attain success in that field, for honors to the man mean more honor to
the fraternity. Friendliness in every association will be an attribute of the good fraternity man. He will cultivate a pleasing
personality, and a willingness to mingle for the development of his own self and for the sake of his chapter.
So many men make the fatal mistake of assuming that, when they line up with a Greek letter group, they
are shutting themselves away from ordinary friendships. On the contrary, they have accepted a challenge to prove to the campus
at large that their fraternity is the most congenial and wholesome order in existence. It would be a wonderful goal
attained when the same love and feeling abundant in the fraternity hall broadened out to every man on the campus,
because the members of that lodge were thoughtful and considerate.

Important as the considerations above are, they could be given a side track in view of the great moral obligation
which fraternity association brings to bear upon the members. It is a beautiful and inspiring thought that Jesus himself chose
the method of brotherhood to advance the greatest cause ever conceived. That little fraternity of twelve men revolutionized the world,
and ideals which were lived daily along the shores of Galilee have become the beacon lights of the ages. We
believe that the fraternity which fails to uphold the same ideals of bodily and spiritual cleanliness is falling far short
of its goal. A fraternity should take as its motto “Build Men,” and should realize that thought to its fullest.
There is no greater privilege given to man than that of turning a life into the right channel, and we
know of no greater potential agency for that achievement than the college fraternity.

We would address this admonition to the older men—think seriously of the pledge you took—try to live it more this
year than ever before—give your freshmen no reason to question the ideals of the fraternity as they see them practiced
by you—do all in your power to make the life of the new men rich in worthwhile things. And to
the pledges we would say—begin now to practice the development of scholarship, of college activity, of friendliness to all, and
above all, make the clean life your guiding star. Give no member of your fraternity cause to be ashamed. It
is all necessary if you want happiness.

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

Someone had the nerve to ask us how the name of this column originated. Personally, we hadn't seen anything remarkable
in it or in the manner the cognomen popped up. But the incidental surroundings were so much like Robert Ingersoll’s
conception of the Universe, that we thought it might be of interest. It was on a cold winter...night. We had
been gnawing on some alphabet letters which we retrieved from the soup at the boarding house. After vainly endeavoring to
swallow them, we threw them on the floor in disgust. Imagine our embarrassment when we awoke to see “Cosmic Chaos”
staring us in the face. It really was a shock. And that's that!

On Saturday, the ghost of Columbus will look back over 437 years of ghostly adventure and will pat itself on
the back for having done a good job. The story runs that when his flagship touched land, the sailors fell
on their knees, and then proceeded to fall on the aborigines. Little did the Indian know that the “white-winged” vessels
brought men who would suppress him. And all this reminds us that Christopher’s name was really Cristobal Colon. Tough, isn’t
it?

It appears that Davidson is the “Ugly Duckling” of Charlotte. As was pointed out on the editorial page in a
recent issue, Davidson men spend no small amount in the Queen City. It looks like the merchants are taking advantage
of their geographical position to clamp down on college advertising. No one is fully appreciated until after he is dead.
There has never been a boycott which proved iron-clad, but they do hurt. Think it over.

Zionist movements have been checked by the Arab uprisings in Palestine. It is paradoxical that this ancient country should again
hear the thud of marching feet. No nation in the world has endured the military campaigns, the bloody battles, that
this sacred ground has witnessed. The skin-clad warriors of David, the phalanxes of Alexander, the legions of Rome, the flurrying
masses of Arabia, the Knights Templar, the divisions of British, all have trod the same plains. A religious war is
terrible and never-ending.

Shades of Keats! Following is a copy of a letter handed to us by your editor:

Dear Aunt Agnes: Please advise me the best course to follow as I am in a terrible predicament. I made
the mistake of becoming acquainted with too many girls. My mother loves me, my father loves me, my sisters, brothers,
aunts, uncles, cousins, and “in-laws” love me and none of the girls love me. It is worrying me. I cannot
sleep, eat, study, or go to the movies, without chewing gum. While applying iodine to a cut last night, a
little of it fell on my toe, and I thought that I would die if I didn’t get a letter
from “number fourteen.” Please, Aunt Agnes! I am just a young student trying to get along in the world. Kindly
advise me. Penelope sends her love.

Yours forever, PERSEUS.

Now Perseus, it seems to the writer of this column, there is no Aunt Agnes, that you are worked up
over nothing. Keep calm, cool, and Run would do. Remember that you are young, very young, and supposedly tender. Then,
also remember that yours is not the first case of overwork. If you cannot snore, however, take an antidote or
an anecdote, preferably the anecdote. Choose from quality, not from geographical location. Never let your head get the best of
you.

As a bibliography, we would suggest an article in the last edition of the Chameleon of 1928-29. It is entitled,
“On Writing to Women,” by Johnny McKnight. Read it. For a classic example, remember Paris and the three goddesses. For
further particulars, address your queries to this column, accompanied by a self-addressed stamped envelope, with paper.

TWO BLACK CROWS

Moran and Mack, popularly called the “Two Black Crows,” whose hilarious phonograph records are known to the American public everywhere,
make their debut on the audible screen in a gay, all-talking and singing comedy-romance, appropriately titled, “Why Bring That Up?”
In this latest Paramount production which will be shown in Charlotte, at the Imperial Theatre during the week of October
14, these two stars of Earl Carroll's “Vanities” are supported by a fine cast featuring Evelyn Brent and Harry Greene.
“Why Bring That Up?” was especially written for Moran and Mack by Octavus Roy Cohen, the popular author of the
“Darktown Birmingham” stories, long a feature in the Saturday Evening Post. The story gives Moran and Mack ample opportunity to
carry on their line of “tired humor” everyone knows so well, and to play the leading roles in a stirring
story said to be based on their early experiences in the theatre. Moran and Mack, of course, are a riot
from beginning to end. Their peculiar humor, slow, drawling, sleepy, and shuffling defies all description. And there seems little doubt
that their debut on the audible screen will be hailed with delight by audiences everywhere. For if the “Two Black
Crows” are funny on records and the radio, they are a scream in this picture which suits their undeniable talents
to the proverbial “T.”

The entire production of “Why Bring That Up?” has been produced on a lavish scale. There are gorgeous scenes of
a gala “first” night in dazzling color. There are beautiful, clever dancing girls and several new song hits destined to
be prime favorites everywhere. Evelyn Brent gives a fine performance as the girl who plays the good-natured Mack for a
“sucker,” and Harry Green, who was the theatre manager in “Close Harmony,” is hilariously funny as the distracted manager of
“The Black Crows.”

Smokehouse Saga By W. C. Ragin (Published Weekly)

Have you ever stopped to wonder how the great art of bulling ever got its start? Well, if you haven't,
there is no use in starting now, because the whole sad story is on the verge of being immortalized in
cold, cruel print. List, gentle reader, while I explain this mystery in words of one syllable.

Canto the First

‘Twas in the far distant land of Wherezit during the reign of that good old king, Algernon the Blue. Now,
Algy was a good king and his reign was prosperous. Peace had settled on the land, commerce thrived, and soil
was fertile, the people were happy, and all that sort of drivel. However, the wise men of this fair little
nation foresaw trouble and declared that this period of prosperity was merely the lull before the storm. At this, the
inhabitants of the country rose up as one man and gave the aforesaid wise men the old Wherezit razzaboo, or
in other words put the bird on them with howling success. Were the wise men downhearted about this? Not a
bit. They merely snickered up their long, flowing sleeves and went right on with their prophesying of dire distress in
the future. And sure enough, the trouble arrived on four feet in the form of a monstrous BULL which proceeded
to devastate the beautiful countryside. The people stood it as long as they could, but at last it became rather
monotonous, so they appealed to good King Algernon for succor. This pathetic appeal put Algy in the proverbial bind, so
he passed the buck (or rather the bull) to his knights by offering a fabulous reward to the knight who
would bring in the head of the BULL, dead or alive. After a rather embarrassing pause, Sir Behave volunteered to
go. He polished the gravy from his breastplate, emptied the goldfish from his helmet, kissed Mama and Papa farewell, and
sold out. To make a long story longer, he finally met the BULL face to face, much to the embarrassment
of all parties concerned. “Moo!” declared the Bull with evident disgust, but Sir Behave was no man to be daunted
by the mood of a bull, even though it was SOME BULL, as bulls go, of course. Well, Sir Behave
hauled off, bashed the BULL on the dome, and threw its lousy carcass out of the country, thus originating the
expression “to throw the bull.”

Canto the Second

As you can well imagine, this sort of thing gave Sir Behave no end of a reputation as a bull
slinger of the first water. Naturally, after this, all of the other men began to go on expeditions for the
sole purpose of slinging the bull. A little later, the women began to take up this fad, only when they
got together to sling the bull, instead of making a reputation for themselves, they usually ruined the reputations of all
the neighbors. At last, bull slinging became a national pastime which would have vied with Mah Jong, cross-word puzzles, the
Yo-Yo, or knitting sweaters for the soldiers. And strange as it may seem, the fad for tossing the cow’s papa
has come down even until the present day without losing a bit of its original popularity. If you don't believe
that bull still runs wild, how do you think that I have managed to fill up this column? Thus endeth
the reading of the sacred scroll. Selah.

A rather pompous gentleman descended the steps of a Pullman and entered the station of a city which was evidently
strange to him. He summoned a dirty little urchin to him. “Here, sonny,” he said, tossing the kid a two-bit
piece, “call me a taxi.” “You're a taxi, sir,” replied the brat disappearing with the same two-bits.
