*pastor*

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17, 1929

Davidson Alumni Received Many Thrills During The West Point Football Game

Gridiron Battle Served to Cement Alumni Interest of Men Residing at Many Points in Northern States

HAVE VIVID MEMORIES

United Demonstration of Ten Thousand Fans Looms As Outstanding Thriller

No event happening within recent years has so served to cement and solidify the interest of Davidson College alumni up
north as the football game last Saturday between the U. S. Army and Davidson Wildcat elevens at West Point, when
several hundred former students of the college residing within three hundred miles of the military training ground, came together at
the stadium battle.

They came to the field of action, proudly displaying their red and black badges, and when the game was over,
they were perfectly willing to hoist them on high, and display to the thousands of fans the knowledge that they
were alumni of this comparatively unknown North Carolina college, whose team had so valiantly and gloriously fought with the eleven
of Uncle Sam.

It is doubtful if ever a group of Davidson alumni were prouder than these several hundred men that day. Their
loyalty was evident in the cheers that rent the air, and when the game was finally over, many were unable
to speak above a whisper, so hoarse were they from the continuous and uninterrupted cheering they had given for their
own boys fighting against odds that ordinarily would make any team cower in fright.

It would be difficult to pick out the most vivid memories that nestle in the minds of these alumni today,
but perhaps one of the brightest spots was the spontaneous admiration of thousands of sporting fans, who, with one accord,
rose in lasting tribute to the Wildcats as they went to their dressing rooms at the half, and gave cheer
after cheer that echoed and re-echoed. Only the most biased sports follower could refrain from this.

(Continued on Page 7)

Dr. Reed Smith, Davidson Alumnus, is Dean of South Carolina Graduate School

Appointment of Dr. Smith to This High Position Occurred on Retirement of Previous Holder This Summer

EDUCATOR AND AUTHOR

Activities of This Prominent Alumnus Has Included Several Fields During Lifetime

Davidson College alumni have always assumed positions of prominence in the educational world, and one of the most recent honors
conferred upon a representative of Davidson occurred this summer when Dr. Reed Smith, graduate of the class of 1901, was
made dean of the graduate school of the University of South Carolina, following the retirement of Dr. Williams Spencer Currel.

Immediately after graduation in 1901, Dr. Smith began his preparation as an educator, and went to the University of South
Carolina that fall, obtaining a master of arts degree from that institution in 1902. He took another master of arts
degree from Harvard in 1904 and obtained his Ph.D. degree from the same university in 1909, to complete his academic
preparation.

He delayed the obtaining of his last degree by teaching English in the Alabama Presbyterian College, 1905-1907, and after leaving
Harvard Dr. Smith went immediately as an instructor of English to the University of Cincinnati, remaining there one year before
accepting a position at the University of South Carolina in 1910, where he has remained ever since. He was professor
of English when his elevation came.

Dr. Smith has always been a prominent and popular member of the South Carolina University faculty, being voted the most
popular member of that body for five successive years after he went to that faculty, and has since been accorded
this indication of esteem in the eyes of the students. He is the author of six or seven well-known books,
several of them dealing with the English language.

The activities of this Davidson alumnus have not been confined to these fields alone.

(Continued on Page 7)

Personal Mention of Alumni

J. C. Barrington, ’26, and Mrs. Barrington, of New York, announce the birth of a second daughter, Jeannette Alene, on
August 30th.

C. R. McCarty, ’26, is president of the senior class at Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Ga.

Lunsford Richardson, ’14, was made president of the Vick Chemical Company last August, H. Smith Richardson, ’06, retiring president, being
made chairman of the board of directors.

Lex Kluttz, '15, formerly director of Near East Relief campaigns, is now secretary of the Y. M. C. A. at
Raleigh.

Rev. John L. Fairley, D.D., formerly of St. Andrews Presbyterian Church, in Wilmington, is now directorof religious education for the
Southern Presbyterian Church, with headquarters in Richmond, Va. Zeb A. Morris, Jr., ’23, is city attorney of Concord. Hon. C.
G. Rose, 1900, of Fayetteville, has been re-elected chairman of the board of directors of the Confederate Woman’s Home, located
near Fayetteville. Dr. R. W. Morrison, ’16, associate professor of education at the University of North Carolina, is now in
charge of the University’s extension class for teachers in the western part of North Carolina. C. K. Marshall, Jr., ’26,
formerly head of the public relations department of N. C. State, is now connected with The Baltimore Sun. Rev. Lawrence
C. Little, ’25, is now on the faculty of the school of religion at Duke University. He was formerly secretary
of the Sunday school work of the Methodist Protestant Church. Col. E. L. Gilmer, ’86, is managing secretary of the
Merchants and Manufacturers Club in Greensboro. Recently formed corporations in which Davidson alumni are interested include Purdie Brothers, Inc., of
Dunn, of which Edward Purdie, Jr., '29, is a stockholder, and Wojax Company, Inc., of Asheville, of which J. H.
Sample, ’21, is a stockholder. Joe H. McConnell, ’27, freshman coach at the University of Virginia, is being assisted by
R. L. Lincoln, ’27. Albert C. Wood, ’20, and Mrs. Wood, of Charlotte, announce the birth of a daughter on
September 24.

Numerous Changes in Address

This week the alumni secretary is given changes of addresses for men in many different classes, which will include corrections
of those previously given. During each week a minimum of ten changes are recorded, these new addresses being obtained without
any concentrated effort on the part of the secretary, who is unable to devote the proper time to records because
of other duties. Some of the recent changes are as follows:

Major Harllee Morrison, '16, Box 326, Terrell, Texas.
Dr. J. T. Wearn, '13, Lakeside Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio.
H. W. Tucker, '29, 1019 Madison Ave., Memphis, Tenn.
Dr. C. B. Sanders, '22, 1301 Avenue J, Galveston, Texas.
Rev. Frank W. Price, ’15, Dwight Hall, Drawer N, Yale Station, New Haven, Conn.
Prof. Fred L. Blythe, ’07, Hotel Astur, Conde de Penalver, Madrid, Spain.
A. T. Cashion, '17, Shelby.
C. S. Mattison, ‘11, Mutual Benefit Life Ins. Co., 225 Broadway, Room 1515, New York, N. Y.
W. S. Barr, '12, 243 W. 96th St., New York, N. Y.
W. M. Long, ’29, 1457 Calhoun St., New Orleans, La.
Sam Allison, ’29, 3731 Locust Ave., Philadelphia, Pa.
W. S. Buchanan, '23, Reynolds High School, Winston-Salem.
Dr. J. R. Boulware, Jr., '21, Bellevue Hospital, New York, N. Y.
P. B. Price, '24, 3218 Santiago St., Tampa, Fla.
W. M. Powell, '29, 90 Park St., New Haven, Conn.
Geo. H. Beall, Jr., ’21, 533 West End Ave., New York, N. Y.
J. R. Falls, '28, 718 19th St., N. W., Washington, D. C.
L. B. McClain, '28, Parkersburg, W. Va.
J. A. White, '08, 1601 Argonne Place, Washington, D. C.
H. B. Arbuckle, Jr., Box 1525, Yale Station, New Haven, Conn.
Rod McRae, J. S. McAlister, Boyce Martin, and W. O. Nisbet, Jr., all at Mellon D-23, Soldiers Field, Boston, Mass.
R. E. Mellwaine, '28, 301 W. Franklin St., Chapel Hill.
Prof. A. S. Mellwaine, '24, care M.S.C.W., Columbus, Miss.
Rev. C. V. Brown, Jr., '24, 2121 Yale Station, New Haven, Conn.
E. B. Peterson, ’30, 1039 S. Twelfth St., Birmingham, Ala.
J. J. Stockard, ’24, 713 S. Oregon St., Tampa, Fla.
E. L. Hollingsworth, ’23, 704 Piedmont Ave., N. E., Atlanta, Ga.
D. F. St. Clair, ’84, 1868 Ingleside Terrace, Washington, D. C.
W. A. Nicholson, ’30, care Y. M. C. A., Atlanta, Ga.

(Continued on Page 7)

EACH IS A HIGH-SPOT OF PLEASURE

CAMEL

Camels are either a solitary pleasure or a companionable custom. As you pass from one activity to the next or
meet one friend after another, let Camels mark the transitions and lend their cheerful aroma to each new circumstance. To
punctuate each day with high-spots of pleasure, say to yourself now and then, "I'll have a Camel!" Camels are mild,
mellow and smooth... refreshingly cool... an expert blend of the choicest tobaccos grown. That's why they bring you an extra
measure of pleasure... why they never tire your taste, nor leave an unpleasant aftertaste, no matter how often you smoke
them.

© 1929, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
