You can’t always win, but you can always smile.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
ATTEND THE ANNUAL ATHLETIC NIGHT IN SHEARER, FRIDAY 8:00 P. M.

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 14, 1929 No. 21

PRITCHETT ELECTED STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT

HONORARY FRATS EXTEND UNUSUAL NUMBER OF BIDS
O. D. K. and Scabbard and Blade to Bid Later

BID DAY MARCH 12
Ten Fraternities Bid Approximately Seventy Upperclassmen

The number of men bid by the honorary fraternities on March 12, official spring bid day, proved to be exceptional. Besides Phi Beta Kappa, and Scabbard and Blade and Omicron Delta Kappa, which are allowed by the Honorary Fraternity Council to bid at a later date, the remaining ten fraternities bid an aggregate of almost seventy-five men. A list of the fraternities and the bids they issued follows:

Delta Pi Kappa, local honorary journalistic fraternity, bid J. L. Brown, W. M. Powell, W. L. Dumas, P. R. Alderman, J. B. Black, R. W. Kirkpatrick, S. S. Wiley, R. W. McDermid, J. W. McCutchan, H. A. Knox, and E. S. Heenfer.

Sigma Pi Sigma, national physics, bid D. J. Caldwell, T. H. Hall, J. B. James, S. H. Monroe, and W. G. McGavock.

Eta Sigma Phi, national classical, A. R. Bird, Jr., C. N. Burch, Jr., N. B. Dicks, W. B. McSwain, M. W. Norfleet, Jr., D. F. Murphy, and F. F. Wood.

Omega Phi Alpha, local philosophical, extended invitations to J. F. Preston, M. W. Norfleet, C. M. Pratt, R. T. Nunan, A. M. Frew, J. B. Knox, F. D. Miller, F. V. Poag.

Sigma Upsilon, national literary, C. M. Pratt, D. P. Anderson, C. C. Clark, R. M. Clifton, R. O. Flinn, and W. A. Long.

Mu Beta Psi, national musical, bid Prof. H. T. Lilly, Prof. E. J. Cullum, Capt. Elkins, W. C. Archie, C. C. Clark, O. T. Gibson, J. G. Johnson, R. S. Abernathy, R. W. McDermid, and L. L. Barr.

Alpha Phi Epsilon, national forensic, bid W. H. Bailey, J. B. Knox, E. E. Marsh, A. R. Bird, M. W. Norfleet, J. C. Mathews, and E. H. Clarke.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon extended bids earlier in the spring to L. B. Parish, C. J. Albright, and H. C. Harril.

The Biology Club has asked the following men to submit papers for membership: D. P. Anderson, M. J. Kennedy, A. S. Moffett, J. Z. Preston, R. Z. Query, P. G. Padget, Sam Black, and John Alden.

The International Relations Club has also asked men to submit papers.

Spanish Lecturer
JULIAN MORENO-LACALLE
Founder of Middlebury Spanish School who will speak here under the Sponsorship of the Spanish Club

JOHNSON ELECTED BASKETBALL CAPT.
Wilson and Milton Elected Varsity and Freshman Managers

At a meeting of the basketball lettermen last Monday, Frontis W. Johnson was elected Captain and J. A. Wilson, Manager of the team for 1930. The race for Varsity Manager was close, lying between Mills, Milton, and Wilson. The latter was finally chosen. Milton was elected Freshman Manager.

Frontis Johnson is from Jefferson, Ga., and attended High School in Greensboro, Georgia, High, where he was an outstanding athlete. He is a letterman in Varsity tennis, and a former worker on The Davidsonian, having belonged to the Reporters Club. His scholarship record is also excellent, being among the best in the class. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi, social fraternity.

Allen Wilson, of Montreat, N. C., had his preparatory school education in the McCallie School, in Chattanooga. He is active in the Glee Club and is working on the business side of the annual. He was formerly a competitor for track manager before taking up his work as junior basketball manager. Wilson is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity.

V. A. Milton, from Thomasville, Ga., is a former member of the Reporters’ Club and is News Editor of The Davidsonian. He is a member of Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, and Theta Upsilon Omega, social fraternity.

Vocational Guidance EDUCATION
(By Dr. Henry Louis Smith, of Washington and Lee University)

A young American educating himself for future success in the complex civilization of today has ten times as many learned “professions” open to him as the college student of fifty years ago, and the rewards of conspicuous leadership in any one of them are more dazzling than the rosiest dreams of the college students of that far-off age. Industry, commerce, manufacturing, transportation, inter-communication have all advanced with giant strides and all offer most attractive careers to the able and ambitious.

Yet of all the nation-wide epidemics of contagious development that have swept our republic, nothing in American history has approached the amazing development of American Education since the new century began. Never has America invested so many millions and billions in schools of every kind from the kindergarten to the university. Never has any civilized nation attempted or even imagined the enrollment of so many millions in regular home-study, in summer schools of every type, and in correspondence schools covering the whole nation. Never have the professional teachers of America or of any nation been so thoroughly organized, so aggressive, enthusiastic and influential, as the teaching profession of America today. Within the past ten years the average salary of the average teacher has been more than doubled, while the remuneration of city superintendents and institutional presidents now often exceeds the salaries of governors, judges, senators, and even U. S. ambassadors.

American public opinion, so often shallow, warped, and misled, is slowly turning from its ancient childish idolatry of the soldier, the politician, and the millionaire to a deeper appreciation of the creative power and the social and civic influence of the Teacher. In the wiser and happier America of Tomorrow there is no doubt in my mind that the City Superintendent of Education who molds and creates the citizenship of the future will far outrank in public opinion the mayor, the railroad president, and the millionaire money-lender.

If, therefore, you are so fortunate as to possess brains, character, personal magnetism, and ample steam-power, you will find in American Education a fruitful field of creative labor, open doors of opportunity, and steadily increasing rewards for conspicuous success.

J. T. CHRISTENBURY TO CAPTAIN MATMEN
Eight Men Receive Letters For Service in Wrestling

At a meeting of the wrestling team Tuesday, John B. Christenbury was chosen captain of the team for the coming season. The manager has not yet been announced. During the past, the manager has been a member of the team but it has not yet been decided whether or not this custom will be adhered to.

The men to receive the varsity “D” for consistent work on the wrestling team are T. E. Hill, former captain, Thad Brock, G. E. Herriott, W. H. Flythe, J. B. Christenbury, A. M. Warren, C. K. Marrow, and L. H. Cowan. Hill, Herriott, Flythe, and Christenbury had already won their letters in previous years, while Brock, Warren, Marrow, and Cowan were issued their “D” for the first time in wrestling.

Captain-elect Christenbury, a member of the junior class, is from Stony Point, N. C. Winning his numeral in wrestling on the freshman team his first year, he has shown improvement since then and figured in many of the fresh and varsity victories, recovering his varsity “D” his second year. During the past season, Christenbury has proved a mainstay on the team and it is expected that the coming season will be a success under his leadership.

NEW CHAMBERS IS ALMOST COMPLETE
Building Will Be Finished for Class of Twenty-Nine

Work is being pushed forward rapidly on New Chambers building in order that the graduation exercises this year may be held in the auditorium. It is fully expected that the building will be for the most part finished at that time; however, it will probably not be completed in every detail and therefore the dedication of it will be put off until next year.

The greater part of the remaining work on Chambers will be done within the next month or six weeks. The only outside work yet to be done is the completion of the dome. This work has been delayed because materials for it have failed to come. It will be finished as soon as possible.

The inside work is going forward at a good pace. In the east wing most of the floors and radiators have been put in and the doors are being placed. After that the only work to be done is that of putting in the blackboards and painting. This wing of the building is to be occupied for the most part by the science departments. The laboratories will be equipped in the most modern way; the desks will be provided with gas jets, electricity, and water.

The parts of this wing on which the most work is yet to be done are the basement and the stairways. The lavatories are complete except for the floorings and the ceiling, the fixtures having been installed. Steam-heat has been connected throughout the building.

Much work is being done on the middle wing, especially on the auditorium. This auditorium, when complete, will provide seats for 1284 people. It will have a large stage which will be fully equipped. Provisions have been made for the installation of a pipe organ. The ceiling of the auditorium will be covered with a special composition board called “acousti-celotex.” This is to aid in making the acoustics of the hall good. The material is in the form of large boards made up of cane fiber and perforated with rows of holes. This arrangement is said to be very effective.

Below the auditorium, which is on the second floor, will be a large banquet and reception hall, to which will be connected a large and modern kitchen which will be used in preparing alumni banquets, etc.

One of the unusual parts of the building is the dome room. This is a large arched room, with the ceiling of the dome made of natural yellow brick, and with four lamps hanging from the ceiling. This will be used for gatherings and provide room for about three hundred people.

Water and sewer connections throughout the building are.Now being made. Provision has been made.

TALKS FEATURE OF ATHLETIC PROGRAM
Cups to be Awarded Outstanding Athletes in Various Sports

The date and place for Davidson's third annual athletic night have been set for Friday, March 15, at Shearer Hall. The exercises will commence at 8:00 o'clock. The main features of the evening will consist of awarding certificates to letter men in four sports and of presenting gold footballs to the members of Davidson's gridiron machine for 1928.

A football cup will be awarded by Professor J. M. Douglas. Professor F. K. Fleagle will present gold footballs to those who have won their letters on the Wildcat football squad. Professor F. L. Blythe will present a cup to the student who has proved to be most efficient as a member of the wrestling team for 1928. Colonel W. R. Scott and Dr. Frazer Hood will award the cups for tennis and basketball, respectively.

N. G. Pritchett, director of physical education, will be the principal speaker of the evening. His subject will be, “What Price Athletics?” Professor A. Curry will make a short talk on the subject, “A Real Wildcat.”

In recognition of what has been done in the way of physical improvement, which was a contest open to all students, started by Captain Pritchett three or four months ago, a cup will be awarded by Dr. H. B. Arbuckle to the student who has proved himself the best as a result of physical exercise.

Certificates will be formally awarded to students who won their letters during the past football, basketball, and wrestling seasons. They will also be given to the members of Davidson's tennis team for last year. Quite a few alumni are expected to be present for the exercises, and although there have been no definite arrangements as to other speakers, some of the visiting men will probably be called on for a few remarks.

GLASGOW TALKS AT Y VESPER SERVICE
“Life With a Purpose” is Subject of Inspiring Talk

“Life with a Purpose” was the subject of the address delivered by Mr. Tom Glasgow, prominent Charlotte businessman and outstanding layman, before Y Vespers Sunday evening in Shearer Hall. The Scriptural basis for the talk was taken from Daniel 1:8: “Daniel purposed in his heart” that he would not conform to the standard of morality and life of the foreign court. Daniel, a prince of the house of Judah, resolved to endure slavery rather than forsake principles of character which had been his since early youth. But Daniel, a man with a great brain as well as a great firmness of purpose, was not destined to sink to obscurity; on the other hand, he became a leader of the empire and performed a great work.

Of course, every wise choice may not result in temporal power, but the latter is not the ultimate consideration. In studying the life of Daniel, there are certain practical lessons for the benefit of a twentieth-century youth, regardless of certain ideas that the Old Testament is out of date. First, the wisdom and necessity of thinking through a course of action ahead of time is forcefully brought out. Life's crises come when there is no time to think. Just as the railway engineer has planned how to meet certain emergencies, so must a youth determine his attitude toward temptations and then stick to it regardless of cost. In the second place, the true values of life must be evaluated correctly.

(Continued on page 3)

Money, Senior Mascot

At a recent meeting, the Senior Class selected Billy Woods, second son of Prof. W. W. Woods, as their mascot. This action was taken in accordance with a traditional custom for the Seniors to choose a mascot each year for the annual and for commencement exercises.

President-Elect Carl R. Pritchett, Reidsville, N. C., who won election for president of the student body on the first ballot.

DEBATERS WIN TWO, LOSE ONE IN WEEK
Defeat University of Richmond and William and Mary College

As a result of last week’s trip made by two members of the Davidson Debating Team, R. M. Christian and W. L. Dumas, Davidson won debates from the University of Richmond and William and Mary College, respectively.

On Tuesday, March 5, the University of Richmond was debated, Davidson upholding the negative side of the question: Resolved, That Substitutes Should Be Adopted For The Present System Of Trial By Jury. In this debate, the decision reached by the judges was 3 to 2, in favor of Davidson. The debate was attended by a large number of students.

The next debate was held with William and Mary College in the old Phi Beta Kappa hall at Williamsburg, Virginia, on March 6. Davidson won in this debate; Christian taking the affirmative side of the question: Resolved, That Expert Jurists, Three or Five In Number, Should Be Substituted For The Present System Of Trial By Jury. Dumas and R. C. Matthews composed a team which debated the University of Florida at Queens College, Charlotte, N.C. on March 7th. Davidson lost to the University by a decision of 2 to 1.

W. B. McGuire and Z. V. Long are now on a trip during which they will debate North Carolina State and Wake Forest Colleges. Another team, composed of Carl Pritchett and E. E. Marsh, will debate the University of Alabama on March 19th. Definite arrangements as to the place that the latter debate will be held have not been made, but in all probability, it will take place at Davidson.

SUMMER SESSION TO OPEN IN JUNE
Miss Mamie Eppes to Have Charge of Primary Work

Summer school will run from June 10 until July 19th this year. Such was the report of Professor F. K. Fleagle, who is Dean of the Summer School.

Miss Mamie Eppes, who is at present in charge of the Teachers’ Training Work at the Farm Life School in Iredell County, North Carolina, will have control of all primary work at summer school. Miss Eppes is a graduate of the Harrisonburg, Virginia Normal School and the Peabody College at Nashville, Tennessee. She also has taken post-graduate work at Columbia University.

Miss Eppes will have charge of a primary demonstration class and of departmental work such as drawing, penmanship, and physical training.

All public school teachers may be assured of practical and useful courses in the departments of public school work, as Miss Estelle Rawl, the grammar grade supervisor of Charlotte City Schools, will aid Miss Eppes in her work. All theoretical courses in Education will be handled by Professor L. B. Henderson, of the regular Davidson faculty.

Reidsville Man Wins Presidency On First Ballot
Nominations for Offices Are Posted Day Before Elections

SECRETARY VOTE UNFINISHED
Brock and Fraley, Barium Springs Boys, Are Chosen for Vice-Presidents

Polling a majority of the votes cast in the student body elections, Carl R. Pritchett was chosen as president of the student body organization for next year. The four men nominated for this position by the student nomination committee were C. R. Pritchett, F. R. Brown, T. W. Brohard, and Z. V. Long. Pritchett won over these men with a majority of all votes cast on the first ballot, a feat unprecedented in the past few years.

The two vice-presidents chosen from the rising junior class by the student body are Thad Brock and Walter W. Fraley. These two men won on the second ballot from Dean Rusk, H. S. Covington, C. H. Goodykoontz, and P. W. Glidewell. Glidewell, Goodykoontz, and Covington were eliminated on the first ballot, Dean Rusk on the second.

The secretary-treasurer of the student body is chosen from the rising sophomore class. As The Davidsonian goes to press, the race for this position had not been completed, but was being run off between R. F. Norton and D. E. King. The men nominated for this position were P. M. Conway, C. W. Arnold, R. A. Hall, B. E. Allen, and J. D. McConnell. All save King, Arnold, and Norton were eliminated on the first ballot, Arnold being dropped on the second, leaving Norton and King in the race on the third and last ballot.

Carl R. Pritchett, class of ‘30, is from Reidsville, N.C. Pritchett’s honors since entering Davidson have been varied. He first made himself known on the basketball court with the freshman team. He worked rapidly in that sport, making his varsity letter his sophomore year, at the end of which he was elected captain of the team for his junior year. It is very seldom that a captain is chosen from the junior class. During the season just completed, Pritchett, with his skillful (Continued on page 6)

Legendary Relics Prove To Be Fake
Old Columns at Last Fall Down and Go Boom
(By Uncle Dinwiddie)

Erected in 1858, destroyed in 1929, the old Chambers stood. From the time of construction until 1921, the four columns were the foremost feature of the old Chambers building. From 1921 until their destruction, they were an outstanding landmark on the campus, and a monument to what had gone by. Seventy-one years of prosaic work, that of tearing down columns. But to those that knew the columns, it is not so prosaic. By order of the Board of Trustees, the columns were doomed to dust. Last Thursday and Friday, the remnants of the once inspiring Chambers building crashed to the earth. Thus passed a link that had connected the present with the past, a sentimental link, perhaps, but a real one at that.

Many were the students and others that gathered around to watch the destruction of these columns. In order to make the event a perfect picnic, an impromptu baseball game was staged between the college stars and the youth of the town. The result is not known, for while the game was still in progress, preparations for the destruction of the third column were completed and the game was deserted for a more thrilling sport. The fourth column was not dragged down to the earth until Friday morning.

With the destruction, the ruins were covered by men seeking the supposed relics within the columns. Nothing was found. So, with the passing of the remnants of a once famous building, also passed the legends that were prevalent upon the campus regarding the contents of the columns.