THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1929

Kim’s Kolumn

The first of the so-called “crucial” Saturdays of November has passed, and today finds only ten major teams undefeated and
untied in the race for either sectional or national football championship honors. Taking them from East to West, the pace-setters
are Pittsburgh and Cornell in the East; Tennessee, Tulane, Vanderbilt, and Kentucky in the Southern Conference; Purdue and Minnesota in
the Big Ten; Notre Dame among the “delegates at large;” and California on the Pacific Coast.

Compared to the frenzied doings of previous weekends, Saturday proved to be no exception. Surprise packages were tossed about with
reckless abandon and the final whistle sounded the death knell on the titular hopes of three outstanding elevens, namely, Dartmouth,
Southern California, and Clemson.

A crowded Yale bowl seldom, if ever, has witnessed anything more dramatic than the 16 to 12 victory for the
Blue after Al Marsters had led the Big Green into the lead late in the final period. Yale has been
beaten by Georgia, but successive victories over Army and Dartmouth have projected the Elis into the top eastern group alongside
the undefeated clans of Pittsburgh and Cornell. Dartmouth seemingly could not overcome the mental handicap of having never beaten a
Yale team in the history of competition between the two schools.

On the Pacific Coast, the mighty Trojans, the greatest team that ever represented the University of Southern California, were battered
and beaten 15 to 7 by the inspired California Golden Bears who ascended the peak of the Coast Conference as
its only undefeated eleven.

In the South, Kentucky rose to great heights to down Clemson by the top-heavy score of 44 to 6 in
the greatest upset of the day. Making its first distinct bid for conference honors, the Wildcats—despite the absence of three
regulars and using its second and third string teams during three quarters—unleashed a slashing offense and an impregnable defense that
should carry them far in their titular aspirations.

Just what will happen between now and the time when the last punt of the 1929 grid season has gone
sailing down the December wind is open to conjecture—but a hypothetical analysis of the remaining schedules of the leaders shows
plenty of cause for worry for them all.

Purdue and Tulane are top-heavy favorites to go through the remainder of the season undefeated. The former must dispose of
Iowa and Indiana, neither of which can be termed “dangerous;” while the latter meets Auburn, Sewanee, and Louisiana State, none
of which can logically be figured as a troublemaker for the mighty Green Wave. Vanderbilt must beat Georgia Tech and
Tennessee; Kentucky must conquer Alabama, V. M. I., and Tennessee—while the Vols must hurdle Vandy and Kentucky, each of which
may prove stumbling blocks on successive weekends. If the big teams continue their policy of following up defeats with “smashing
victories,” Georgia Tech should upset Vandy’s apple cart at Nashville, Saturday. Tennessee’s scalp appears to be safe for the next
two weeks with Carson-Newman and Vanderbilt as opponents; while Kentucky should experience little difficulty with Alabama and V. M. I.
So the Turkey Day tilt—Tennessee at Kentucky—should prove the outstanding game of the holiday from a Southern standpoint.

Pittsburgh must meet Washington & Jefferson, Carnegie Tech, and Penn State; Cornell has Dartmouth and Pennsylvania yet to face, and
California finds Washington and Stanford in the offing. Such opposition may turn out to be the worst sort of die-hards.
Out of the running themselves, they may exact revenge by knocking someone else out. Of the “select” trio, only Pitt’s
mighty machine seems unbeatable—Dartmouth is due a “comeback” and certainly Stanford is nobody’s “pushover”—while the Pitt Panther appears far superior
to all of its remaining opponents.

Notre Dame, with two remaining intersectional contests, Southern California and Army, promises to continue as a “winner”—add to this the
fact that Minnesota, the last of the teams in the charmed circle, must defeat Iowa, Michigan, and Wisconsin, and the
picture of confusion is complete.

As I Pick 'Em
DAVIDSON at State.
Auburn at TULANE.
CLEMSON at V. M. I.
Carson-Newman at TENNESSEE.
LOUISIANA STATE at Duke.
Furman at CITADEL.
GEORGIA TECH at Vanderbilt.
GEORGIA at New York U.
Mississippi at PURDUE.

Glasgow Concludes Series of Services

“If you want your life to be the finest finished product, take your hands from it and let Christ put
his hands on it” was the theme of Doctor Glasgow's concluding sermon held at the Chambers’ auditorium Wednesday night.

Doctor Glasgow began his talk with praises to the fine Davidson spirit with the superb privileges and the clear-cut Christian
atmosphere of our college. “Christ did not come to step down life, but to step it up, to enlarge and
enrich life, to add a greater sweep and score to our life. Everything that Christ touches throbs with vitality.” In
brief, He came that we may have the more abundant life, “the life plus,” as Doctor Glasgow expressed it. “With
Christ, the best of life is always ahead; we have only tasted it. Out there in the future is the
more exalted, the more glorious life with Christ.”

A story was given. A mountaineer seeing an eagle cramped in a dry goods box placed in a merchant's window,
purchased it and released the bird. It stretched its legs and wings, fluffed its body, and sailed up into its
native heights for which the goods box, its mighty power was held bound. “God did not build us for a
dry goods box, but for the heights, that we may search the upper regions.”

That the life plus might bud forth, you must not keep your life, you must give it away. It is
one of the greatest laws of God. For when the end of the path of life approaches, everything except that
which we have given to God turns to ashes. It is one of the greatest rules of life. A man
in the second Galveston flood had lost his wife and child, the most precious things of his life. He was
heartbroken and despairing. Wandering in the darkness, he hears a cry of distress. Thinking that all the fine things of
his life were gone, he made a last effort at the risk of his life. He went out and rescued
the two persons in distress and discovered them to be his wife and child. “You cannot give God anything, but
that your gift is returned with interest. He sends something better back out of his abundance.”

The humblest deeds should not be forgotten. Several stories to illustrate this point were given. “If you want life to
be a fine, finished product, perfectly formed, and beautifully chiseled, take your hands off and let Christ place his on
it! Do not be afraid, He only wants to untwist the tangled threads ofOur lives. Yet we often are terrified,
we draw back fearing what He will do.” A Mexican in a drunken stupor tried to prevent an operation on
an arm cut in a fight. Had the operation not been done quickly he would have lost the use of
it, and yet he fought with all his power to prevent it. It is thus that we fight the hands
of Christ who would only mend us, heal us, and make us anew. The story of how Mendelssohn, the great
composer, went into a cathedral and asked that the organist let him play the organ. The organist was reluctant but
finally he consented. After the recital he was greatly impressed. He had forgotten the organ and everything as his soul
was lifted up in the beauties and harmonies of the music. He exclaimed, “And to think that I might have
missed the touch of a master hand!” Christ wants to take life, revive drooping spirits, and make melodies in living
praise of God. “If you want your life to be a fine finished product take off your hands and let
Christ place his hands on it.”

KENTUCKY at Alabama. NORTH CAROLINA at South Carolina. V. P. I. at Virginia. STANFORD at Washington. NOTRE DAME at Drake
U. FORDHAM at Boston College. HOLY CROSS at Boston U. DARTMOUTH at Brown. BUCKNELL at Villanova. Colgate at COLUMBIA. Georgetown
at NAVY. HARVARD at Michigan. Rutgers at LAFAYETTE. Northwestern at OHIO STATE. Penn State at U. OF PENN. Lehigh at
PRINCETON. Wisconsin at CHICAGO. U. of Detroit at WEST VA. ARMY at Illinois. MINNESOTA at Iowa. Washington & Jeff. at
PITT. Maryland at YALE. Won, 19; Lost, 6; Ave., .760.

Thirty-Six Students To Submit Papers To I. R.C.
Topics of Interest in International Politics Will be Discussed

The International Relations Club has asked some of the members of the Senior and Junior classes to submit papers within
the next two weeks on any subject of recognized importance in international affairs. The Club announced the names on October
31, and the papers must be in by midnight on November 15. The length of each is to be about
1000 words. The visit of Ramsay McDonald to this country and its bearing on naval disarmament, the Tariff Issue, the
World Court, the ever-present question of the success of the League of Nations, the Russo-Chinese situation, “Reparations and the establishment
of the International Bank,” and many other important subjects have been suggested to them for treatment. “Current History” is probably
the best source of information for this type of paper, though “Time,” the “Literary Digest,” “World’s Work,” and the New
York Times magazine contain a great deal of valuable material also.

There were thirty-six men asked, of these, eighteen are Seniors and eighteen are Juniors. The Seniors are W. H. Best,
J. L. Brown, E. C. Close, W. F. Gaffney, J. E. Gardner, C. P. Greyer, D. C. Hunter, J. W.
Johnson, C. H. King, J. B. Knox, B. H. Mayo, L. A. Mills, J. W. Moore, W. H. Morrison, T.
R. Nunan, F. V. Poag, H. W. White, and E. B. Wilkinson. Those men in the Junior Class who were
asked are: P. R. Alderman, A. R. Bird, J. B. Black, C. H. Burch, G. A. Cannon, A. R. Jackson,
J. A. Jones, H. A. McAllister, J. W. McCutchan, A. W. McLean, J. V. D. Middleton, H. S. Munroe, W.
L. Poe, J. F. Preston, W. A. Rembert, D. Rusk, W. C. Thompson, J. A. Ward.

DR. LINGLE CORRECTS (Continued from Page 1)
has an adequate church at the lowest possible cost. “Anyone who has visited Davidson on Sunday will recognize at once
that there is an urgent need for a new church that is adequate for our large student body of over
six hundred students.”

GALA PLANS MADE (Continued from page 1)
2:30 o’clock. Although in past years the ’Cats have been usually defeated, they have invariably shown those Wildcat tendencies for
which they are so famous.

Spanish Club Seeks To Become National
At a recent meeting of the Spanish Club held Tuesday night, October 29, plans were discussed for getting a chapter
of one of the national organizations for Davidson. Professor Fleagle has corresponded with several language fraternities with a view of
affiliating the local club with one of them, but nothing definite has as yet been decided. The plans will be
further discussed at the next meeting which will be held November 12. The election of new members has also been
considered, but they have not as yet been determined. The initiation will take place in about a month. Members to
this club are recommended by the professors of Spanish, and voted on by the club, knowledge of the language and
interest shown in its study being regarded as a basis for election. The purpose of the organization is to foster
and maintain interest in Spanish on the campus. At the regular meetings, which are held in Shearer Hall on the
second and fourth Tuesday nights in each month, Spanish authors and literature are discussed. Current events in Spain which are
of interest to America are also brought up. A feed is always held in connection with the initiation of new
members.

Officers are regularly elected twice each year. Those elected last spring are: W. L. Hart, President; J. K. Pepper, Vice-President;
and A. G. Randolph, Secretary and Treasurer.

Doc: “I must give you an anaesthetic.”
Stud: “How long after I take it before I'll come to?”
Doc: “My boy, don’t expect too much of an anaesthetic.”

You Cannot Afford Not To Insure.
The unexpected usually happens. Two fires occur every minute—somewhere. What assurance have you that your property will not burn next?
“It is safer to have insurance and not need it, than to need insurance and not have it.” Let us
take care of your insurance needs, so that you will have insurance protection when you need it.

Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department CHARLOTTE, N. C.

FELLOWS!
You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

Special Designs DELUXE ICE CREAM At Students’ Store and Dealers MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COMPANY Mooresville, N. C. Brick Eskimo Pies

“VOILA!”
A stiff exam, a round o’ gym, Demand your vigor, verve and vim; Ambitious studes must keep in trim: Eat
LANCE’S foods—get in the swim: “Excel, sir!”

MAKE THIS STORE YOUR HEADQUARTERS
STUDENT SUPPLIES OF ALL KINDS NEW RECORDS EVERY WEEK W.S. HENDERSON “DRUGS” “SODA”

STICKERS
We have a new pattern Davidson Sticker on the way. Within one week there will be plenty of the College
seal with envelopes. Make our store your store.

Students Store White D Company “It’s Yours, Why Not Patronize It?” “PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”
