THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24, 1929

BROCK KICKS GOAL

Side Line Shots By P. R. Alderman

Davidson's brilliant victory over The Citadel last Saturday witnessed the end of half of the 1929 football season for the Wildcats and their last game before foes of the Big Five are to be met. Day after tomorrow the Wake Forest Deacons will furnish the first opposition to the Cats in the State Championship Race, then an interval of one Saturday on which day the strong V. M. I. Cadets will be seen in action again the Red and Black machine on Richardson field. After this, Monk Younger and his cohorts will have their hands full with State, Carolina, and Duke successively. This is not to say, however, that Wake Forest and V. M. I. aren’t to be seriously reckoned with first, but the last three contests will undoubtedly prove the harder tests to the Wildcats in view of their weight on the State Championship title.

Before the present Wildcat eleven was first seen in action and even through the first game or two, there was quite a bit of doubt and speculation, both locally and abroad, as to its strength and ability. With each of the five games already played, however, this indecision has gradually given way to a general conviction that this eleven cannot be counted out until the final whistle of the final game, if they are to be counted out at all. To further strengthen this fact, the Wildcats, without the services of Brohard and McQueen, two stellar backs, held the Army Cadets to a two-touchdown victory and then staged the now-famous comeback last week to defeat the Citadel Bulldogs 7-6. As to their fight — well, they’ve broadcast that fact better than words ever will.

A brief survey of results so far this season, considering the teams that have been met, is undoubtedly far more favorable than would ever have been predicted beforehand. Three of the five games played have been won and scored on every opponent so far, which indicates the power of the Wildcat offensive, especially as the Army, Clemson, and Citadel were among these. The following comparative figures supplement these facts:

Davidson Opponents
Touchdowns ---------- 8 10
Points after touchdowns 7 4
Field goals ----------- 0 1
Total points scored ---- 55 67
Total first downs ------ 53 57

Captain Brock, by place-kicking 7 goals out of 8 tries, has proved his right to the title of the best in this field in North Carolina and has so far made a record that is seldom equaled and scarcely ever surpassed. It seems that the Cats are out for revenge this year, having settled old debts with Wofford and Citadel, and so that puts the Deacons in line for a tough time Saturday. They should not offer as much opposition as Citadel did but there'll be plenty. The Bulldogs brought one of the hardest-fighting elevens ever seen in action on Richardson field. They fought a hard, clean game, completely outplaying Davidson in the first half and losing only after they had put all they had into the game. It was a battle of two well-matched, scrappy elevens, and every man on each team deserves praise, for they all played like men.

Davidson-Citadel Statistics

DAVIDSON CITADEL
First downs ------ 9 14
Penalties --------- 20 Yds. 30 Yds.
Ground gained from scrimmage 80 Yds 192 Yds.
Ground gained on Passes: 22-26-52. 72 Yds. 43 Yds.
Passes attempted -- 6 10
Passes completed -- 4 3
Passes intercepted by -------------3 0 Av. lgth. punts and kickoffs -------- 37 Yds. 41 Yds. Av. lgth. punts and kickoffs returned 17 Yds. 10 Yds. 

That’s over now and the thing uppermost in thought now is the scrap with the Deacons, which, in spite of all dope and forecasts, is going to be a hard day’s work for both teams, so let’s go over and back those Wildcats like such a team ought to be backed!

TO GIVE DAVIDSON VICTORY WILDCATS LAUNCH AERIAL ATTACK AGAINST CITADEL TO SCORE WINNING TALLY

Stubborn Davidson Defense Prevents Bulldogs from Scoring Twice in First Half

A gamely fighting Davidson Wildcat turned on a powerful Citadel Bulldog last Saturday after being outplayed almost three quarters and, with a beautiful passing attack, snatched a victory from seemingly certain defeat. It was not the desperate kind of a passing game, a game resorted to only as a last measure, but it was an attack that is certain to bring results at any time. That passing attack, and some hard running backs give the Wildcats one of the best offenses that the team has ever boasted.

After being outplayed, and having to fight with their backs to the wall for two and a half quarters, Davidson took a Citadel kickoff and, following a beautiful return, opened up on their opponents. Joe McCall ran the kickoff following the Citadel touchdown back to his own 43-yard line. After a line play and a pass had failed to gain, Brock stepped back, and from a punt formation, shot a perfect pass to McCall, who was downed on the Citadel 30-yard line. It was the first time Davidson had had the ball in their opponents’ territory the entire game. Brock passed again to McCall, but made only five yards on the play. Then Fraley took the ball, and passed to Proctor, who took the pass on the five-yard line, and stepped the remaining distance.

(Continued on page 6)

Class Basketball
Oct. 23—Sophs vs. Juniors
Seniors vs. Fresh
Oct. 25—Sophs vs. Fresh
Seniors vs. Juniors
Oct. 30—Sophs vs. Seniors
Juniors vs. Fresh
Nov. 1—Sophs vs. Juniors
Seniors vs. Fresh
Nov. 6—Sophs vs. Fresh
Seniors vs. Juniors
Nov. 8—Sophs vs. Seniors
Juniors vs. Fresh

Great Placekicker
Captain Brock, who Saturday kicked his seventh goal in eight tries.

What every young girl should know before marriage—how to cook, Washington Geo. Ghost.

Naturally Good
Good tobaccos ... made good by Nature, not by “artificial treatment.” That’s the secret of OLD GOLD’S goodness. OLD GOLD tobaccos are naturally good. Carefully selected from Nature’s best for smoothness, flavor and freedom from throat-scratch. You have only to try a package to get the thrill of this smoother and better cigarette. That will tell you why OLD GOLD’S sales are ALREADY THREE TIMES GREATER than the combined sales of three leading brands during a like period of their existence.

© P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

Better tobaccos make them smoother and better ... with “not a cough in a carload”

On your Radio, OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR. Paul Whiteman, with his complete orchestra, every Tuesday, 9 to 10 P.M., Eastern Standard Time.