Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.

Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p.m., Monday. Anonymous articles will not be published.

AUBREY BROWN: Business Manager
W. M. POWE: Editor-in-Chief

EDITORIAL STAFF
F. D. MILLER: Managing Editor
C. M. PRATT: Associate Editor
R. F. HARRIS: Associate Editor
Z. V. LILES: Associate Editor
V. A. MILTON: News Editor
P. B. FITE: Society Editor
D. P. ANDERSON: Feature Editor
J. W. McCONNELL: Sports Editor
J. L. DOUGLAS: Exchange Editor
C. R. CANNON: Literary Editor
W. K. HALL: Associate Editor
W. K. HALL: Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
T. L. TAYLOR: Business Manager
J. M. STEVENSON: Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. McCALL: Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. McGUIRE: Asst. Bus. Mgr.
R. F. SHAW: Circulation Mgr.
H. B. JENNINGS: Subscription Mgr.
H. McLEAN: Advertising Solicitor
G. D. EVERINGTON: Advertising Solicitor
J. A. CANNON: Advertising Solicitor
J. D. MAJORS: Advertising Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
J. L. BLYTHE: President
W. McDERMID: Vice-President
E. S. HEEFNER: Secretary-Treasurer
P. R. ALDERMAN
W. F. PRESTON
C. H. DUBOSE
C. RAGIN
R. GRAHAM
R. RUSK
W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
S. H. FANG
S. S. WILEY
J. P. McBRYDE
J. V. D. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, JANUARY 10, 1929

Delta Theta Chi having received Phi Delta Theta charter, The Davidsonian extends most hearty congratulations.

If one might judge by discussions of parallel and of term papers plus extras, it might be thought that the end of the term were near. How about it?

And we would suggest that the best mid-winter method of showing that Wildcat spirit would be to put this band uniform drive over in short order.

Every other college paper that we have received has had at least one editorial advising what and what not to do in 1929. We know you wouldn’t follow the advice even if you happened to read it and so we won't indulge.

WHAT CRITERION, IF ANY

As the time for changes in elective courses approaches we are wondering somewhat as to the motives governing the undergraduate’s choice of this subject and elimination of another. The combinations of oftentimes decidedly heterogeneous courses remind us of the student who was taking courses in dairying, music appreciation, drafting, ancient history, and sociology because no class came before 10 a.m.

Students often find their courses deficient in subjects required but this is not so frequent as hearing one near graduation bemoaning the fact that his course was not more fully planned so that he might have been better equipped either for graduate work or for some vocation. Professors and advanced students are glad of opportunities to offer helpful suggestions to those who are doubtful as to what to elect. And if you want crips, they can tell you something about the motto.

CAUSE TO REJOICE

When the final whistle sounded at the Pasadena Rose Bowl on New Year’s Day, something of signal importance to all devotees of sport in the Southland had taken place. Once again the name of Dixie had been blazed across the athletic horizon in very definite symbols of worth. Georgia Tech’s spectacular victory over Andy Price’s Golden Bears should arouse a peculiar sense of pride in every one of us, because it proves to the world that Southern teams are competition aplenty for the best.

Three years ago Alabama’s Crimson Tide surprised the whole nation and paved the way for future fame of the South, but since then, such strides have been taken in every direction and field of sport that it is a distinct source of pride to review some of them. Time was, and not so long ago, when the big universities of the East scheduled games with southern teams merely for workouts, and it was an impossible idea that the underdogs had even a good chance to win. Little recognition was given the South when it came to picking All-American Teams, or even to giving honorable mention.

Look around now and witness just about the classiest lot of native-born athletes ever assembled under the same sky. Young Stribling and Ad Warren in the ring—Ed Hamm, Galen Elliot, Henry Cummings, John Currie, and Charlie Baskins on the track—Bobby Jones supreme on the links—Tech, Tennessee, Florida on the gridiron, with Tech alone having six men mentioned for All-American—the big leagues literally full of young bloods straight from the South—basketball getting better every year. Quite an imposing array, isn’t it? The South has arrived to stay. We are mighty proud of The Golden Tornado and are glad to welcome those Ramblin’ Wrecks on behalf of Davidson. We think there will be a lot more conquering heroes returning in years to come. Perhaps our own Wildcats will return from the United States Military Academy in something of the same manner. Anyway, they will be keeping pace with everybody, and in football anything can happen.

—Z. V. L. Jr.

CASTE OF TRADITION

There are often principles which become so firmly established in given institutions and so embodied in custom and habit that the members of that institution never stop to inquire if there is a sound reason for those principles or whether they are good in practice. Such is the situation at Davidson in the case of the election of practically all the officials of the various campus organizations. The senior class is the “president-editor-captain” class. The junior class is the “vice-president” class; the sophomore the “secretary-treasurer” class. Why this should be the almost infallible rule is difficult to understand.

The constitution justly provides for the election of the student body officers from the respective classes. This provision has proven to be sound in principle and practice and we can't take exception to it. But is there any reason why the editor of The Davidsonian, or The Chameleon, the captain of football, basketball, etc., the cheerleader, or the head officers of the many smaller campus organizations should be elected from the senior class when there happens to be superior talent in lower classes?

A more thorough distribution of honors is practically the only feasible argument which can be broached for such a practice as now exists. But the question immediately arises whether or not the efficiency of the institution should be sacrificed in order to more evenly distribute the honors among the respective classes. We can see no reason why it should.

Let us take a general example. The junior class has two men who would each make an efficient head of a certain organization. The senior class has one man inferior to each of the former. The latter, by custom, is elected. The following year only one of the two competent men can be elected and the organization enjoys only one year of capable administration whereas it could have had two years by electing a junior as its head.

The election of a junior as captain of the basketball team this season is the only time this custom has been broken in the past few years. Other times have arisen and shall arise, though they will not occur frequently, in which caste and tradition should be broken over for the sake of proper administration. The smaller a college is the more frequently will it be necessary to pass over the caste rule. Davidson is a small college but she persists in holding tightly to this custom. We observe that many large universities, which are more able from variety of talent in a given class to confine their honors to the senior class, do not hold so strictly to the rule as does Davidson.

Current Comment
By John Brown

Hotchpot
By Kendrick Pritchett

WANTON WILES
By Dave Anderson

After seven years of political controversy the “Boulder Dam” bill has been passed by both houses and signed by the President. Arizona, however, objects strenuously and may take the matter into court on the grounds of unconstitutionality. The structure involves appropriations of $165,000,000 and is to be the highest dam in the world. It is to dam up the Colorado River and by irrigation make rich new lands, and will also be a source of power and water supply for nearby cities. Arizona objects because it would confine the waters of the Colorado instead of letting them continue their natural course through Arizona and on into Mexico and the Gulf of Lower California.

A divorce after forty minutes of married life is claimed by the London Times as a record for short marriages. In Leningrad a working man and his sweetheart were duly married and left the magistrate’s office. They returned a short while later to seek and obtain a divorce. They had spent their brief honeymoon on a tram quarreling about where they would live. Since they couldn’t agree on that, they agreed to disagree.

Speaking of strange clubs, why not organize a wading club for Davidson whose members could better enjoy sliding and splashing through the mud on the campus, especially on dark, rainy nights.

Quite a striking fact brought out recently is that 7 out of 10 members of the new Nationalistic Cabinet in China are Christians. These include a direct descendant of Confucius, and one of the “Big Three” of China. Our missionaries have not fought in vain.

The new dollar bills, which incidentally should be in circulation by now, are just the beginning of a system of standardization in our monetary system. Formerly the Treasury has carried on hand five different kinds of dollar bills. By the new system, there is only one kind. As the bills of larger denomination are changed in size they too will be standardized until the present number of 30 different kinds of bills will be reduced to 11. The new bills are made so that they are 50 percent stronger than the old models and much more economical. Since the size is reduced by one-third a larger saving is made in ink, paper, and storage space.

Florida is usually thought of as a sunny land of orange groves, tourists, and real estate with a beach around most of it. But among other things...

Last year in the United States, there was approximately a ratio of one divorce to every ten marriages. Divorces granted during the year 1927 numbered 192,037, an increase of 11,184 or 6.2 percent above the previous high year, 1926. Marriages for 1927 numbered 1,200,694 or 1,880 less than in 1926. The number of marriages was 10.12 per 1,000 of population in 1927, whereas in 1926 it was 10.27. The divorce ratio was 1.62 per 1,000 population in 1927, against 1.54 in 1926. This is a clear indication of a steadily rising divorce ratio accompanied by a decline in marriages.

The one-half of one percent clause in the prohibition law was never intended to be the limit of enforcement. If the reaction of the newspapers of the South to Major Chester Mills’ prize-winning essay...On prohibition enforcement, if it is at all representative, the drys in this section are experiencing a season of gloom. The fallacy of Major Mills’ assertion that the principal source of illicit whiskey is the diversion of alcohol may not be obvious outside of the South, but in Dixie, we know that the prize winner is inaccurate in his estimation of the situation. For instance, there were seized last year in Georgia more than 3,400 stills. Accepting the statement of Lincoln C. Andrews that only 10 percent of the existing stills are seized every year, this would put the number of stills in Georgia at 34,000. These will average at least 1,500 gallons a year. This calculation would place the “moonshine” output in Georgia at approximately 50,000,000 gallons annually, and for the country at large, the output of illegal liquor would be 400,000,000 gallons and probably more each year. In the circumstances, Mr. Durant's prize money seems to have purchased not even a salve for the present prohibition illness, much less a solution. Other prohibition officers say that the Mills’ plan is old stuff. But that cannot be said of what comes through the holes in it.

A recent news article tells of a trial in Spain that rivals that of Scopes in Tennessee. Carmin Alvarez, a Madrilese woman, illiterate and obtaining the information from hearsay, carelessly dropped the remark that our Lord had brothers and sisters. The gossip was reported, and the authorities, judging that the Divine Majesty was insulted by accrediting a normal family life to Mary and Joseph after the birth of Jesus, condemned the woman to two years imprisonment. Of course, everybody knows that the New Testament refers in sundry places to James, the brother of the Lord, and also to other brothers, but a higher court confirmed the sentence. The curious part of this harsh sentence is the fact that several anti-clerical and out-and-out atheistic publications appear regularly in that country and are never molested.

One of its accomplishments for the past year is the raising of about 533,000 head of cattle. There are also large experimental rubber plantations there.

Let us paraphrase this: “Make no resolutions save the resolutions of making no resolutions.” Re-stated, these words from the pen of a great man hit the American public square between the eyes. Ain’t it the truth? Why, we swore that this column would no longer be filled with mere bull—now, please couldn’t you just take a squint at it. You know it’s the truth!

A few personal resolutions:
1. Not to let any barber sell us the whole works at once. (We got a haircut plus yesterday. Price: One American dollar. Barbers, by the way, should take on bond-selling as a sideline.)
2. To study (Laugh this one off).
3. Not to cuss (Oh, boys, it was so terribly hard to refrain from a horrible ungentlemanly “dern” when we planted that bare foot on that pecan shell!)

Therefore, be it resolved never to resolve again.

SAYINGS OF SOLOMON, THE COLLEGIATE
“Some things others do, we call sins: when we do the same things ourselves, we chalk ’em up to experience.”

Him: “Sir! I’m the dean’s daughter.”
Her: “Beg pardon, have a cigar.”
Him Again: “Have a cigarette.”

Sign on a Freshman’s slicker: “Do you drink anything?” “Yes, anything.”

Kentucky: A college man, with another nut, were indulging in a long trip via rail. The train was going over a mountainous rough stretch of road in the foothills of Kentucky. The two collegiates tried in vain to master the coffee they ordered with their dinner. Giving it up as a hopeless job, one of the fellows calls the waiter, just as serious as you please, “Say, waiter, is there any straight stretch on this line?” The reply was, “Thar’s plenty ahead.” “Well, heavens above, wire ahead and get me some. I want to drink my coffee.”

(Remember that one for your store of wise cracks).

THINGS WE WOULD LIKE TO KNOW
Is there a Santa Claus? If not, who was the old gent in Kress’? Where were we New Year’s Eve? What happened to Mr. Smith we used to hear so much about? Why we can’t seem to get this—(censored)—column filled up for this week? (Answer yes or no, it’s a lie).

DEFINITIONS YOU WILL NEVER FIND IN WEBSTER
College-bred: A concoction made from the flour of youth and the dough of dad's.

SOMETHING FROM THE BRIEF CASE
“Love many, trust few, Always paddle your own canoe.” Moral: In more prosaic terms, be collegiate.

The tired business man’s alibi (with a surprise ending).
Hubby (on phone): Say, I'll be awfully busy at the office and won’t be home until late.
Wife: Can I depend on that?

The absent-minded professor—
Motor Cop: So you saw the accident, sir. What was the number of the car that knocked this man down?
Dr. Arms: I’m afraid I’ve forgotten it. But I remember noticing that if it were multiplied by 50 the sum of the digits reversed would be equal to the cube root of the product.

The “Bostonian” jibe:
Washington: I was talking to a fellow who read some spicy stuff in Boston.
And Howe: Spicy stuff? Why, I thought that in Boston all books...

This fellow is a mind reader.

OPEN FORUM
Letters To The Editor On Varied Subjects

TALKING ABOUT THE COURT
Dear Editor:
Somebody said we should always count ten before we say anything when we get mad. Well, I got mad and so I have tried to see how it would work to count ten. I’ve counted ten weeks since the Court of Control passed a bunch of new rules for some reason or another to hem the freshmen in a little closer than they have been before. But counting these ten weeks has had the opposite effect of cooling my ire and if you don’t mind publishing this I would just like to say a word about what I think of this shine the Court pulled. Some of the other regulations are bad enough but I’m not going to say anything about any of them right now except the post office restriction. Now it doesn’t look to me like the Court used common sense in passing this regulation. It is far more practical to be jostled just a little in the post office than it is to make two or three trips backward and forward between the front door and boxes to get some freshman’s mail for him. Now the Court might not be gentlemen and might ignore the requests of the freshmen to get their mail for them but if the Court ever tried the job it surely would realize that it would be cheaper to let the freshmen get their own mail. It looks as if the Court thought that since it couldn't find anything else to do just kept the freshmen out of the post office a little longer, thinking the popular opinion would be with it in any move against the freshmen.

Yours, not especially for the freshman but for expediency.
Roger’s Will.
P.S—I would like to hear from the Court in regard to this—R. W.

REVIEW OF REVIEWS
Mr. Editor:
“'Tis hard to say, if greater want of skill Appear in writing or in judging ill,” —Alexander Pope “Essay on Criticism.”

The student criticism of The Chameleon, appearing in the December 13th issue of The Davidsonian, is, we should say, a bit too severe. Portions of The Chameleon, no doubt, deserve the epithets, such as “a complete washout,” “without a redeeming quality,” etc., hurled at them from the pen of this critic. But this criticism, as such, has failed to grasp the significant idea, the redeeming feature of all criticism. It is this that we protest. “Criticism is the art of judging justly the beauties and faults of a literary work.” The Chameleon critic has overlooked the beauties, possibly because they are few. The criticism is entirely too destructive. Aside from a casual hint that some changes should be made and that one of the poems would “pass in the dark” and that some of the book reviews were not half-bad, the critic has said nothing constructive. “It is unfortunate that the literary efforts at Davidson have reached a low ebb.” Yes, it is exceedingly unfortunate. But don’t throw a drowning man a lead-filled life belt. If nothing else is possible, at least compliment the efforts made by the writers of The Chameleon. They, too, probably realize the low ebb of literary efforts on the campus, but, to say the least, are doing their best to raise the standards.

Like others, we have held a rather disinterested opinion of The Chameleon, as concerning the material for it. We have never made efforts to contribute to it, largely because of just such criticisms as this of the past issue. For if the critics expect of The Chameleon a “Yale Review” on a small scale, we will continue to hold back. But in our opinion, The Chameleon is not supposed to be a marvelous piece of literary work. We have no graduate students to contribute to it, no students trained for the literary world. The Chameleon is, and will continue to be, a mere experimenting ground for beginners, being classed as good or bad according to the natural ability of the untrained writers. Please don’t discourage such. They have possibilities.

The critic is rather severe with some of the contributors for imitating the style of great men. Copying a literary style is a dangerous business, but has its advantages. There is also a criticism in regard to one of the short-story writers copying and borrowing from the works in Flynn’s Weekly, but, like the critic, we believe there could be better short-story styles found elsewhere. But possibly this writer wishes to continue in such styles. There is money in the business, as long as many, like our critic, who claims for himself remarkable literary taste, continue to read and be so well acquainted with such magazines.

Let us quote Pope again, for the benefit of those who are game and determined enough to at least try to boost literary efforts on the Davidson campus:
“Yet shun their fault, who, scandalously nice, Will needs mistake an author into vice: All seems infected that the infected spy, As all looks yellow to the jaundiced eye.”
—Justice.

A roommate is a fellow who will give you his shirt off his back—provided he has already worn it until it is dirty.