CONTRIBUTE = THE DAVIDSONIAN | BANNER ELK ON “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,
DECEMBER 5, 1929 No. 12 Wildcats Defeat Blue Devils 13-12 In Great Classic of the Gridiron Played Thanksgiving Afternoon Brock
Runs 102 Yards to Pave Way for Touchdown McCALL FIRST SCORER Red Parrish Intercepts Three Passes to Stop Great Aerial
of Duke Team Captain Thad Brock carved for himself an immortal place in the football Hall of Fame when he
broke loose for a spectacular run of 102 yards against the Duke University Thanksgiving Day. His great run paved the
way for the score that gave the winning margin and forced the powerful Blue Devils to go home on the
short end of a 13 to 12 score. It was the greatest victory of the Wildcats this season. Duke had
driven down the field to the shadow of Davidson's goal and had been held on the seven-yard line. Brock was
back eight yards behind his goal in a punt formation. The ball was snapped back and, instead of punting, he
started out around right end before any of the linesmen could touch him. He cut back toward the center of
the field, eluding several men of the secondary defense who were closing in on him, and, by the time he
had passed the thirty-yard line, he was ahead of all tacklers. On past midfield into Duke's territory he sped with
several white-jerseyed pursuers close behind him. Past the forty-yard line, the thirty, the twenty-five, twenty, and the goal just a
few steps ahead of the tired Wildcat leader. A Duke man made a dive from behind and brought Brock down
on the five-yard line. It was the most brilliant play that Richardson field has seen in many, many a day
and one that the eight thousand spectators fortunate enough to see will not soon forget. It completely broke the spirit
of DeHart’s men and though they fought back in the second half to score once more, their attack did not
have the resistless surge, the well-timed drive that characterized their play the first two periods. Brock was a constant threat
to Duke's hopes of victory. He stuck out in the day’s play like a sore thumb. He constantly was placing
the ball far down the field with his powerful kicks, or smashing through to break up a play before it
could get well started. His passes kept the Blue Devils back. Brock played one of his best games of the
year and, to top it off, made his sensational run and another run of 26 yards as an appetizer. But
all the praise should not go to Brock. The Davidson line rose to supreme heights in holding in check the
powerful Duke plunging attack. Although it was torn to shreds at times by the smashes of Brewer, Robeson, Godfrey, and
others, it generally would rise up to hold when the goal line was threatened seriously. In defense every man on
the secondary played a great game. Time after time the runners would smash past the first line and into a
broken field, only to be brought down by a vicious tackle two or three yards past the line of scrimmage.
Monk Younger matched Buie’s famous passes with a defense so effective that only two heaves were completed out of the
nine attempted, and five found their way into the arms of Davidson men. Red Parrish alone intercepted three of the
throws and made up completely for a muff of one of Brohard’s passes early in the game. Buie finally became
so ineffective with his passing that he was withdrawn from the game. But although Davidson came off victor, they did
so only after they had outfought and stopped the most devastating running and plunging game they have faced this year.
A fast charging white line ripped and tore the Wildcat forwards to shreds and it seemed that there was no
stopping this seemingly perfect attack. The Blue Devils would come surging up the field with a power that rolled up
first down after first down, that piled up yardage with amazing rapidity, but when it seemed that a touchdown was
certain that thin red line would halt the drive, or one of Buie’s passes would go into a Davidson man’s
arms, and the Wildcat stands would breathe a sigh of relief. This marvelous attack that (Continued on page 6) Fifteen
Members Taken In By I.R.C. Fifteen new members were initiated into the International Relations Club last Friday night in the
Philanthropic Hall. Two short speeches were made, the first by Sam R. Coker, president of the Club, who told something
of the value of the organization and asked members to be diligent in their attendance at meetings, and in their
cooperation to making them a real success. The talk was followed by the initiation. Immediately following the ceremony, Dr. J.
W. McConnell, of the Davidson faculty, briefly spoke on the purpose of the International Relations Clubs, which calls for the
creation of sentiment for World Peace and Brotherhood and the abolition of war. The society, which is planning to have
a successful year, discusses usually, pending international problems of prominence. Modern day news of international projects and important governmental actions,
as well as reports on new books written concerning this phase of the organization's work, are regularly given in its
bi-monthly meetings. This national organization invites new members twice a year, once in the fall and once during the spring
term. Other officers include, H. E. Russell, vice-president, and Allan M. Frew, Secretary-Treasurer. The following men, who have been chosen
on a competitive basis calling for the submission of essays concerning club projects, and who have been carefully selected as
to their personal ability and merit, were inducted into the society: James B. Black, W. A. Rembert, R. T. Numan,
Charles Burch, Brown Mayo, C. P. Greyer, John F. Preston, J. W. MacCutchan, H. A. McCallister, D. C. Hunter, J.
A. Ward, W. F. Gaffney, F. V. Poag, A. R. Bird, J. V. D. Middleton, and P. R. Alderman. Appleby
Gives Talk On Pride in the Ministry Former Student and “Y” Secretary Returns to Davidson With Union Seminary Deputation Jim
Appleby from Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., former student and “Y” secretary here was back with us Sunday and
gave a splendid address at the Vesper Service. Jack Roberts another member of the deputation from the seminary led in
prayer and Bob Orr rendered a violin solo. Jim took his text from the first chapter of Romans: Paul's words,
“I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every
one that believeth.” Paraphrasing this a little Jim said, “I am in the ministry and proud of it. In recent
years man has made wonderful strides in bringing nature to obey his wishes but the world has a much greater
need that has hardly been touched. In the past two decades the span of man’s life has been increased twenty
years and an infinite number of important inventions and discoveries have been made. There never was a time when there
were so many institutions for charity and moral uplift. There are many associations and agencies for the prevention of war;
yet today while the United States is spending two billion dollars for education she spends three billion for armament. This
expenditure has been increasing yearly and today is greater than that of any other nation in the world. During the
past year there was a two per cent increase in the already startling number of divorces in this country, one
divorce to every six marriages. Here in our southland there are more murders per capita in the cities of Atlanta
and Birmingham than in Chicago and New York, and last year there were two and one-half times as many murders
in the one city of Chicago as were committed in all England. The worst thing about the present crime wave
is that it is principally among the young men and boys. (Continued on page 3) Triple Threat Man Captain Thad
Brock who ran 102 yards through Duke’s line to give Davidson a great victory. College Makes Plans to Form Radio
Contact in Near Future With WBT Broadcasts to be Made From Auditorium of Chambers Building DR. LINGLE FAVORS SCHEME Orchestra
and Glee Club Practice Strenuously for Program to be Given Monday Night According to the developments of the past week,
Davidson College will not only have the opportunity of broadcasting over radio Station WBT weekly, but it now appears likely
that direct connections between the powerful station in Charlotte and the college will be made, enabling the broadcasts to be
given in the main auditorium of Chambers Building. This would eliminate the necessity of transporting the students to Charlotte each
Monday night; and would permit a larger number of the Glee Club to participate. Last week Prof. Ernest Cullum and
Ernest Milton, at theAt the request of Dr. Walter Lingle, president of the college, I went to Charlotte and interviewed
Mr. Donald O'Connor, program manager of WBT, about the possibilities of establishing a permanent connection between the station and the
auditorium at Davidson. The results were of a satisfactory nature. It was learned that the station would be glad to
install the necessary equipment here if the college would pay for the installation of a circuit. It was brought out
by Mr. O'Connor that the radio authorities in Charlotte are anxious to link up with the institution. Not only would
he like to have a weekly broadcast, but he would also like to broaden out and include a lecture program
from Davidson as often as possible, preferably to be given in the morning. He also said that the station (Continued
on page 6)

Phi Beta Kappa to Hold Fall Initiation

The North Carolina Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa will hold its annual fall initiation Friday evening, December 6, in
the new auditorium of Chambers building. At this time a great honor will be conferred upon those who receive the
initiation rites of this honorary organization. Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest Greek letter fraternity in the United States, having
been founded December 5, 1776. It may be noted that this is only one day removed from the date, December
6, which has been set for the ceremonies of the Davidson chapter. Although once chiefly social, this organization has now
risen to a position of the leading honorary scholarship fraternity. The local chapter was founded in 1923 and since that
time has taken in a number of prominent students, also alumni who have proven themselves worthy of the distinction which
is connected with membership in this organization. The officers of this chapter at (Continued on page 4)

Active Canvassing For Annual “Y” Mission Fund, Going to Mountain Boys, to Commence Monday Night

Kuester Addresses Class at Davidson

"People get paid from their neck up instead of down. If that were not true, then blacksmiths would be millionaires,”
declared Clarence Kuester, vice-president and secretary of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, in speaking to the business administration class at
Davidson College last Friday. He used as his theme, “Balance Your Mind.” Mr. Kuester was at Davidson at the invitation
of Prof. J. P. Williams of the department of Business Administration, and his visit is one of the several which
will be made to Davidson from time to time by prominent men. Col. Wade H. Harris, editor of the Charlotte
Observer, was to accompany Mr. Kuester and supplement his remarks but was unable to be here.

The Chamber of Commerce secretary told his listeners that they are endowed with two minds—the conscious and sub-conscious. The former,
he said, would take care of the ordinary exigencies of life, and the sub-conscious was more liable to loaf on
the job. “Put it to work,” he urged them. He cited instances of men who had hobbies but, while they
were enjoying them, their sub-conscious minds were at work, evolving schemes or concocting plans for their businesses. “Courage and common
sense are two essentials to success,” he maintained, “and common sense is simply experience.” He did not attempt to elaborate
upon many necessary traits, but named a few which included accuracy, courtesy, energy, enthusiasm, justice, loyalty, memory, observation, originality, poise,
reflection, study, reading, self-control, thrift, health, character, and personality. “The latter,” he contended, “is simply the individual's self,” and he
charged the students specifically to watch this and develop it. (Continued on page 4)

Davidson Football Team Honored at Mooresville

Dr. Kennedy, Mooresville Pastor, Makes Talk at Banquet Held in Rotary Clubroom

The 1929 football team of Davidson College was feted sumptuously and extensively in Mooresville Monday night, when Davidson alumni and
representative men of that city tendered a banquet in their honor. It was given at the rooms of the Rotary
Club and started at 6:30 o'clock. This was the second time that such an affair had been arranged by the
Mooresville people interested in Davidson.

Over sixty people were present at the entertainment, this number including approximately 20 members of the team, various representatives from
the faculty, and those who were hosts to the Wildcats and their coaches. J. H. McClelland, ‘09, presided at the
banquet. The principal speaker of the occasion, who was introduced by Zeb V. Turlington, member of the Davidson Board of
Trustees, was Rev. I. N. Kennedy, D.D., pastor of the Associated Reformed Presbyterian church at Mooresville.

For over twenty minutes this speaker entertained his hearers with a semi-humorous talk, but interspersed his witty remarks with worthwhile
suggestions to the team in their individual relationship to their future life. Doctor Kennedy began his address by saying that
he had often heard the Davidson team described as a “mystery eleven,” but hastened to explain that he no longer
questioned that term, but whole-heartedly agreed with whomever originated it. “I learned here tonight,” he said, “that every man is
a triple-threat eater, that they tackle everything, that they let nothing pass, and that they make many downs.” Assuming a
more serious vein, the Mooresville pastor asked them the point-blank question, “What are you going to do when you (Continued
on page 4)

Lees-McRae Boys to Lead Chapel Tomorrow Morning

$250 TO UNION CHAPEL

Fifteen Scholarships of $50 to Go to Mountain Boys, Making Year’s School Possible

The Y. M. C. A. officials feel that a mission cause more worthy than that of the mountain boys at
Lees-McRae Institute could hardly be found. Josephus Daniels, noted journalist of the Tar Heel state, says that money invested at
Lees-McRae will bring a large dividend; that if men of large means could visit Banner Elk, the orphanage, the junior
college, and Grace Hospital, and see what is being done there it would not be difficult for Mr. Tufts to
get all the financial backing he needed to carry on the work. Mr. Daniel's entire article, which appeared in “News
and Observer,” is published in pamphlet form and may be obtained, along with other pamphlets, from the display of literature
in the hall of Chambers.

Actual canvassing for the mission fund will be done Monday night, and will be carried out so that each man
will make his gift or his pledge to a member of his own class. The goal is: Every student contributing
and a total of $1000. It is hoped, however, that this total will be over-subscribed. Seeing the need of expansion
in Union Chapel, located in the mill district at Davidson, the “Y” has voted that $250 of the sum go
to Union Chapel to be used as an incentive for further contributions. Albert McClure, under whom the work has greatly
increased, needs a new Sunday School building which will cost $2000. The people of the chapel have pledged $125. The
sum is given by the “Y” on the provision that the building is completed within one year.

Each year Lees-McRae enrolls over 200 boys and girls. Out of the 221 enrolled this year there are 83 who
will have to have aid. The boys and girls work to help pay the small sum of $120 which pays
for board, room, tuition (under college graduates) and fees for the entire year. Each student is personally considered and no
one is given aid who can pay his own way. Those who apply for admission, prove themselves scholastically, and are
willing to help themselves, are given aid. Industry, merit, and necessity are the requirements which must be met in order
to gain a scholarship.

Lees-McRae is one of the three departments of the Edgar Tufts Memorial Association, and is located at Banner Elk, N.
C., in the heart of the mountain section of Western (Continued on page 6)

Hood Will Lecture On Physics Tonight

Professor of Psychology Speaks at Invitation of Sigma Pi Sigma

On Thursday night, December 5, a noteworthy lecture will be delivered in the faculty room of the Chambers building. Dr.
Frazer Hood of the Psychology Department of Davidson College will deliver the lecture, his subject being “The Relation of Physics
to Psychology.” This interesting and educational program will be offered under the auspices of the local Alpha chapter of the
national Physics honorary fraternity, Sigma Pi Sigma. It will be an open meeting and all students and townspeople are cordially
invited to be present. This lecture is the first of a series of two or three programs given each year
by Sigma Pi Sigma for the edification of the student body. The local fraternity is a chapter of the national
organization which comprises eleven chapters scattered over the South and East. The threefold purpose of the organization is to foster
interest in the study of Physics, to encourage research, and to bring about a more sympathetic understanding of the subject.
Doctor Hood is a very clever speaker, and the lecture promises to be interesting as well as instructive.
