BLUE DEVIL ANNUAL CLASH VERSUS STADIUM WILDCAT TODAY TWO-THIRTY “ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS” Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.
C., NOVEMBER 23, 1929 No. 22

Davidson to Meet Duke In Annual Classic Here This Afternoon at 2:30

Both Teams in Good Condition for Game Which Closes Davidson’s Season

McCALL MAY PLAY

Game Will Bear Weight on State Title Race

This afternoon at 2:30 Davidson will renew her ancient rivalry with Duke. Coach Monk Younger’s Wildcats will go into the
game determined to emerge with the Blue Devil’s scalp. Excepting one injury, the ’Cats will enter the fray with their
best eleven. The fleet Joe McCall, stellar back, may not start because of an injury sustained against Carolina. Nevertheless, it
is quite probable that McCall will enter the contest later if needed.

Duke is in perfect shape for the battle. The Blue Devils emerged from their snowball fight with Wake Forest without
an injury. Each day since this game Coach Jimmie Dehart has drilled his charges in preparation for Davidson. Most of
this drill, however, has been skull and light signal practice because of the heavy duty the Duke men underwent in
their fray on last Saturday. It is with much interest that the followers of the two teams will watch the
outcome, not only because of the excellent condition of the players but because of the fact that not again will
this game be played on Turkey (Continued on page 3)

Prof. Lilly Speaks to Norfolk Society

Prof. Henry T. Lilly has returned to his duties as a member of the English Department at Davidson College after
delivering an address on “The Aspects of the Modern Drama” before a very appreciative audience in the lecture room of
the Norfolk Jewish Synagogue. The address was open to all who were interested in literary subjects. It was one of
the series of lectures endowed by a fund left several years ago to bring prominent speakers to that city by
The Norfolk Society of Fine Arts. Among some of the speakers have been Dr. Edwin A. Alderman, president of the
University of Virginia; Dr. James Southall Wilson and Dr. J. C. Metcalfe, both members of the English faculty of the
University of Virginia, and Dr. J. R. de Roulhac Hamilton, of the University of North Carolina English Department. Speakers have
also attended the Norfolk Society from Maryland. All of these speakers have given talks on topics similar to that used
by Professor Lilly in which he mentioned the names of several far-famed writers, some of which are: Shaw, O'Neil, Ibsen,
Chekhov, Barker, Yeats, Synge, Torrence, and Mackaye.

Business Classes to Hear Kuester

Professor William’s class in Business Administration is to have as its speaker Friday, the twenty-ninth, Mr. Clarence O. Kuester, of
Charlotte. With Mr. Kuester will be Col. Wade Harris, also of that city, who will, in all probability, also speak
for a few minutes. Perhaps no two men in this country would be so well fitted to talk on the
subject of Business than these two. Mr. Kuester is Executive Secretary of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce and is one
of the best-known men in his line in this part of the country. Due to some of his methods, he
has attained international recognition. Colonel Harris is the Editor of the “Charlotte Observer.” These two men have always been great
friends of Davidson and have always been interested in her welfare. During the past year the degree of “Doctor of
Literature” was conferred upon Colonel Harris by Davidson in recognition of his services along that line.

Group pictures of Delegates who attended the Convention of the North Carolina Press Association held at Lenoir-Rhyne College, November 21-23

N. C. COLLEGIATE PRESS ASSOCIATION HOLDS REGULAR SESSION AT HICKORY

Salem Seniors Will Give Mystery Play

Continuing their presentation of entertainments, the Davidson Dramatic Club will present eleven members of the senior class of Salem College
in a three-act play entitled “The Hidden Guest.” The performance will take place in the new Chambers auditorium at 7:30
p.m. on Saturday, the thirtieth. The plot of the play involves a debutante, a college boy, and an escaped convict.
This strange trio suddenly find themselves together in the home of a quiet spinster. In the ensuing complications arise the
mystery, romances, and comedy with which the play is filled from start to finish. For those attending, a most enjoyable
evening is undoubtedly in store because of the unique versatility of the plot’s different aspects. Even the element of spiritualism
enters into it in the person of a semi-deaf servant girl who heartily believes in preternatural superstitions. Adding to the
already complicated situation are an attractive girl motorist and a rich society widow.

During the season the play has been presented at several other schools in the state. At all of these, it
has met with great success. Several members of the local Dramatic Club, who have witnessed the performance, testify to its
excellence. Headed by Miss Mary Neal Wilkins, president of the club, the cast will arrive in Davidson on Saturday and
will remain over the weekend. The Davidson Dramatic Club will act as hosts.

Trophies Awarded in Various Sports

Several beautiful and valuable loving cups or trophies are being offered for excellence in athletic competition, including many of the
sports at Davidson, which with the exception of one cup, given by Lunsford Richardson, of Greensboro, will be awarded by
the athletic association unless other people voluntarily offer rewards for competition. Heath Whittle, Atlanta, Ga. has already won an action
trophy for supremacy in the decathlon competition recently concluded at Davidson. The Richardson loving cup will go to the student
who shows the greatest physical improvement and higher development during the year. Measurements are made of the students who enter
this field in the fall, and again in the spring to determine the improvement. A cup will be awarded to
the student who shows the best all-round gymnastics, based on indoor competitive events. Two golf cups will be awarded—one closed
to only novices in this sport, and the second open only to the varsity. Two similar cups will be awarded
to tennis players. A competition open to anyone in the student body is goal shooting in basketball; for which excellence
a cup will be presented to the winner.

Seminary Students Will Speak Sunday

Next Sunday, December 1, will probably be the biggest day of the year for the Y. M. C. A. at
Davidson. Some of the best men and finest speakers who have ever spoken here will have charge of all religious
services of the day. Four men from the Union Theological Seminary, two with whom most of Davidson is acquainted, have
interesting and beneficial talks to be presented. Doctor Moffett has been kind enough to give up both his morning and
evening services, and together with the talks to be made at Vespers and to the Ministerial Band, the day will
be filled with profitable talks which most of the student body will attend. Tentative plans show that J. A. Redhead
will have charge of the morning services, R. S. Wilson will speak at the night services, J. K. Roberts will
speak to the Ministerial Band, and Jim Appleby will speak atVespers. R. S.—"Shorty" Wilson, who will speak at the evening
services, is well known at Davidson. At U.T.S., he is a member of the student council, president of the Society
of Social Inquiry, and has been active in all phases of college life. J. K.—"Jack" Roberts, who will speak to
the Ministerial Band, is a graduate of P.C., a letterman in track there, a member of O.D.K., a member of
Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, and is an all-round leader. J. A.—"Jack" Redhead, who will have charge of morning services, is
a graduate of Southwestern, is a college leader, a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, president of the Athletic Association,
an able preacher, and a wonderful Christian character. "Jim" Appleby, former Davidson man, was a leader in many phases of
college life at Davidson; O.D.K., Phi Beta Kappa, and a member of T.U.O. social fraternity. He will lead the Vesper
services.

Author Speaks to Students Tuesday

Last Tuesday at 7:30 o'clock in the Chambers auditorium, J. B. Sale, author, made an interesting talk to the Davidson
students. His talk centered around his book, "The Tree Named John," which pictures life on a typical Mississippi plantation thirty-five
years ago. The "John" in this book is comparable only to "Uncle Remus" in Joel Harris' famous works. This talk
was procured by the Faculty Committee on lectures and was under the supervision of the English Department. Other similar lectures
will be given from time to time for the Davidson students.

Seven Davidson Men Represent Local Publications

Seven members of the staffs of the Davidson publications attended the eighteenth semi-annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association at Lenoir-Rhyne College, Hickory, last Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, November 21-23. Over ninety representatives of the various college publications
over the state attended the meeting according to R. F. Jarratt, president of the association and editor of the Chameleon,
Davidson’s magazine. Davidson's representatives at the convention were: R. F. Jarratt, C. M. Pratt, editor of the annual; E. H.
McCall, business manager of the Davidsonian; E. L. Robinson, business manager of the Chameleon; D. P. Anderson, picture editor of
the Annual; J. B. Black and W. C. Ragin, managing editors of the Davidsonian. The spring meeting of the association
will be held at High Point College. Discussions of methods of improving the publication were held in groups with editors
and business managers of state college publications in charge. F. W. Plonk, of N.C. State, led the discussion in the
groups of business managers; Mabel Ingold, of Guilford, managing editor; H. L. Lippard, Duke, the newspaper editors; and Cy Edson,
editor of the U.N.C. Buccaneer, the magazine editors. E. H. Roberts, of N.C. State, was elected first vice-president of the
association on the resignation of the previously elected official. During the convention, addresses were given by Chas. Pegram, editor of
the Granite Falls Times, Rev. P. E. Monroe, Hickory, Miss Beatrice Cobb, Prof. H. L. Hackman, of Lenoir-Rhyne, and Paul
Porter, late editor of the college paper at the University of Kansas. According to one of the delegates, Porter made
the most interesting talk of the entire convention, an appeal to college editors to help rid the world of the
many social injustices. A football game between Lenoir-Rhyne and Erskine, luncheons, theater parties, teas, and banquets constituted the other activities
of the delegates outside of the business sessions.

Athletes Will Be Awarded Trophies

Different Forms of Athletics to Share in Cups and "Plack"

By the close of this session, a number of Davidson’s star and would-be-star athletes will be proud possessors of cups
and trophies. One trophy has already been awarded to Heath Whittle of Atlanta, as winner of the Decathlon recently completed
here. The six cups, offered by the Athletic Association, are yet to be won, and the Richardson cup must likewise
find an owner. One cup will go to the person who (Continued on page 3)

N.C. Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa Extends Bids to Davidson Alumni

Rev. Frank Price, Prof. Gignilliatt, Dr. Alexander, and Rev. Johnson Accept

INITIATION DATE SET

Dr. McGothlin Will Speak at Initiation Ceremony

Four Davidson Alumni have accepted the bids extended to them by the North Carolina Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa
at Davidson College. They are Rev. Frank W. Price, of China; Prof. G. W. Gignilliatt, of Clinton, S.C.; Dr. U.
S. Alexander, of Charlotte; and Rev. Norman Johnson, of Blacksburg, Va. The initiation for these alumni and the students who
have been recently elected will be held Friday, December 6. Dr. W. C. McGothlin, president of Furman University, and member
of a Phi Beta Kappa chapter of South Carolina, will speak then. All of these alumni are members of the
class of 1915. Although Mr. Price is now in this country, he will not be able to attend the exercises,
as he is doing graduate work at Yale University. All the other members will be present. Professor Gignilliatt is a
member of the faculty of Presbyterian College in South Carolina, and at present has a leave of absence for one
year, doing research work and study. Doctor Alexander recently obtained his Ph.D. at Columbia University and is now practicing law
in Charlotte, while Mr. Johnson is pastor of the College church at V.P.I. The Phi Beta Kappa exercises in the
fall are always well attended by both students and alumni of the College. There will be four students initiated also.
They are A. T. Edelman, Goldsboro; J. B. Knox, Liberty, S.C.; Frank R. Brown, Greensboro; and E. E. Marsh, Jr.,
Marshville.

Noted Lecturer on Physics Here Dec. 3

A lecture of great interest to Davidson students will be given in the Auditorium of Chambers Building at 7:30 o’clock
on the evening of December 3 by Dr. Charles William Edwards, head of the Physics Department at Duke University. Dr.
Edwards will take as his subject "Matter at Lower Temperatures." The lecture will be entirely experimental in nature, dealing with
substances at from 150 to 200 degrees below zero according to the centigrade scale. Because of its experimental nature, the
lecture should prove unusually entertaining and instructive. Doctor Edwards is much in demand as a speaker. Recently he has addressed
such gatherings as The Society of Engineers from the two Carolinas and the Tennessee Teachers of Science Association. He is
a noted author, and incidentally, is one of the authors of the Physics textbook used by Davidson and some forty
other colleges and universities throughout the United States.

Smoker Planned By Seniors December 4

Senior classes at Davidson College annually have several smokers during the college year, for the purpose of cementing the friendships
which have been formed, and giving the class a greater unity when they become alumni. The class of 1930 at
Davidson is following in the footsteps of their predecessors and have scheduled the first of these affairs for Wednesday night,
December 4. Most of them are of an informal nature, but near the close of their collegiate career, the students
bring in prominent leaders to make addresses. W. B. Moore of Franklin, president of the 1930 class, has appointed a
committee of ten, who are in charge of the arrangements.
