WOULDST thou know thyself, observe the actions of others. —Schiller.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
ATTEND THE VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE TALKS

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 7, 1929 No. 20

REAL ESTATE AND EDUCATION TO BE TOPICS FOR TALKS
J. H. Carson, of Charlotte, Discusses Real Estate Tonight

PROMINENT MEN TO SPEAK
Former President of North Carolina Education Association to be Here March 13

Tonight Mr. J. H. Carson of Charlotte, N. C., will speak at Shearer Hall on Real Estate as a Vocation. Mr. Carson, a Davidson man graduating in 1916, acquired his Master’s degree at the University of Pennsylvania in 1917. During the War, he was Captain in Field Artillery and is now a Major in the Reserves. Mr. Carson is President of The Carson Realty Co., The Charlotte Real Estate Board, and director of the North Carolina Real Estate Association.

Mr. T. W. Andrews, Supt. of Schools at High Point, N. C., will talk on March 12, in Dr. C. R. Harding’s room. His subject is to be “Education as a Life Calling.” Mr. Andrews will be on the campus all the next day. Interviews will take the form of discussion groups and can be arranged by seeing W. R. Weaver, Chairman of the Committee on Education. Mr. Andrews is a native of Orange County, graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1908, was a member of the Phi Beta Kappa Honorary Fraternity, and was an intercollegiate debater for the university. He formerly served as superintendent of schools in the following places: Orange County Schools, Reidsville City Schools, Salisbury City Schools, and is now superintendent of the City Schools of High Point. He was president of the North Carolina Education Association in 1918, and is a member of the National Education Association.

Dr. Brenizer
“For your own sakes don't take the short cut to medicine if you can possibly manage to finance your training over a longer period,” was the advice of Dr. Addison Brenizer, prominent Charlotte physician, to prospective medical students in Shearer Hall, last Thursday night. Unless pressed by financial difficulties, he advised not to hurry through the preparation for the medical profession, especially not to try to cut out any college training. Dr. Brenizer painted a clear picture of the difficulties of the study of medicine, not only in the rigid training in medical school and as an intern but in starting a practice. Dr. Brenizer made many practical suggestions in regard to study, starting out in practice, specialization, and individual work or partnership. After the address, a number stayed to discuss with him particular problems. Friday morning, also, he held interviews in the form of discussion groups. Dr. McConnell announced that he could give any desired information concerning medical colleges in the United States and would be glad to advise any students about the best school for them to attend.

Ping-Pong Champion To Be Decided Soon
The Ping-Pong tournament which started about two weeks ago will be brought to an exciting close within the next few days. Among the twenty-odd ping-pong artists aspiring to the title of “Davidson’s Ping-Pong Champion,” who started the long grind, only four have survived. These four young pushers of the celluloid sphere are: Ches Rice, who has reached the finals; Al Halverstadt, who reached the semi-finals; and Charles Parker and Arthur Mills who will clash to decide Halverstadt’s opponent. An exact date for the latter battle has not been decided upon. In spite of the fact that the tournament has been delayed on one occasion because of broken paddles, interest and enthusiasm have reached the highest degree. No one dares wager who will be the ping-pong “King of the Campus” due to the fact that the contestants are so evenly matched. The crowds cannot be very well accommodated on the sidelines of the Y. M. C. A. court, where all games have been played, but everyone is invited to attend the last games free of charge and as many as can, will be accommodated at the scene of the battle. The tournament is being sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. and the Garibaldi and Bruns Company of Charlotte has offered a silver loving cup to the champ. The cup has been on display in the show window of the White Drug Co., during the past two weeks.

Vocational Guidance “Y” Speaker
The speaker at the “Y” vesper service for Sunday evening will be Mr. Thomas Glasgow, of Charlotte. Mr. Glasgow, a man prominent in business, is well known to all of the old men, having spoken at the “Y” services on several previous occasions. His talk last year on “Business” is remembered as one of the most interesting of the year, and his coming is anticipated with a great deal of pleasure on the part of the students.

Rev. Wade Smith To Be Here Next Week
Will Visit Under Auspices of College Y. M. C. A. of Greenville, S. C.

Dr. Wade C. Smith, minister, teacher, writer, illustrator, and Personal Worker, will come to Davidson on March 13th and 14th, under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet. While here, Dr. Smith will interview the entire “Y” Cabinet. He will probably give a series of personal interviews and talks to the various classes. Chapel services will be conducted by him on Thursday, March 14th, and he will hold an open meeting on Thursday night. Dr. Smith comes to us from Corsicana, Texas and Graham, Texas, where he has been conducting conferences. He has been here from Bluefield, West Virginia, conducting a two-week conference.

Dr. Smith gives illustrated lectures on his “Little Jetts,” drawing figures on the board as he speaks. This was printed by Harper & Bros., and is used all over the world in Sunday School work. It proves a very interesting guide to the young as well as being of help to the older people. Another one of his books is the testament which he edited, called the “Testament For the Fishers of Men,” a simple and practical method for Personal Work, practiced with selected passages to use in Soul-winning.

A brief summary of Dr. Smith's very eventful life: He started out his colorful career in business; was editor of the Presbyterian Survey for about 10 years; pastor of the “Church By The Side of the Road,” in Greensboro for two years; wrote “Fishers of Men,” and today is recognized as “the” authority on Personal Work. The Assembly of the Presbyterian Church appointed him as Chairman of the Committee on Personal Work. He has always been active in church work. His talks are always humorous, interesting, and entertaining. They are made brilliant by the numbers of illustrations he gives which are his own personal experiences, giving them more realism in the work. One never tires of hearing Dr. Smith as he has such a wealth of experiences to draw from and presents them in such a way that you can't help but feel you are listening to a master in his field.

TOURNEY BETWEEN CLASSES STAGED
Volleyball meets are to be staged between the various classes at once. Captain Pritchett has asked that the presidents of the various classes appoint the six men for their respective teams. Each team is to participate in a meet with the teams of each other class, and the winner is to be decided on the basis of proportionate scores. On Wednesday, March 6, the Freshmen will clash with the Seniors, while on the same day the Sophomores will encounter the Juniors. The following Thursday will witness the other meets: The Freshmen vs. the Juniors, and the Sophomores vs. the Juniors. The two final games will be staged on Friday with the Freshmen encountering the Sophomores, and the Juniors, the Seniors. Volleyball is not a game of particular skill but an interesting tournament is expected. The usual rivalry between classes is expected to instill into the various teams an extra amount of vigor and pep, and the meets are looked forward to with interest and enthusiasm.

MORENO LACALLE, FAMOUS LECTURER, TO BE HERE SOON
Dean of Middlebury College Spanish School Middlebury, Vermont

WILL LECTURE MARCH 19
Lecture to be Sponsored by Spanish Club in Collaboration With Faculty Members

Professor Julian Moreno-Lacalle, Dean of the famous Middlebury College Spanish School of Middlebury, Vermont, will speak at Davidson on Tuesday evening, March 19. Professor Lacalle is spending his sabbatical year as Guest Professor at Rutgers University, and in giving lectures before various organizations of the country. He is greatly in demand as a lecturer. He talks in a clear, powerful voice that immediately commands attention and interest. Professor Lacalle is a Spaniard, born at Manila in 1881 of Spanish parentage. He received the A. B. degree from the University of St. Thomas in Manila when he was only fourteen years old. He did graduate work in Spain, Switzerland, and in the United States, receiving the Master of Arts degree from the St. Johns College of the University of Maryland. From 1900 to 1905 he was in the employ of the United States government in Manila as translator of Spanish documents. He was translator and editor at the Pan-American Union in Washington from 1906 to 1912. From 1914 to 1920 he was at the United States Naval Academy as Associate Professor of Spanish. In 1917 he founded the Middlebury Spanish School, which has since become famous all over the United States for its unique work in the training of teachers of Spanish. In recognition of his services to the cause of Spanish, King Alfonso of Spain made him a Knight Commander of the Royal Order of Isabella the Catholic, and the Venezuelan Government conferred upon him the Order of the Liberator. Professor Lacalle is also head of a publicity bureau in New York City, called the Inter-American Publicity Service. Through this medium, he has done a great deal to establish harmony between the two Americas. Professor Lacalle has published a number of books on the Spanish language. He is secretary of the Research Group of Phonetics of the Modern Language Association of America, and has written several books on phonetics. Professor Lacalle is a teacher who loves students, who is thoroughly conversant with the language and life of both Spain and America. He is full of vim and vigor, has a pleasing personality, and is a lover of sports and human companionship. Everyone is cordially invited to hear him on the evening of March 19. His address will be in English. He will also give a talk on Spanish to the Spanish students the following day. He will spend two or three days on the campus, orienting himself with southern life and manners.

“Y” Members Visit Charlotte Schools
Under the direction of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A., a deputation of nine men from Davidson conducted the annual “Come Clean Campaign” in the Charlotte City Schools today. This campaign was similar to others instituted by the national Y. M. C. A. and made in numbers of cities throughout the country. The campaign in Charlotte was made in all the grammar schools and in the Junior High School, and took up the entire morning. Members of the Davidson deputation went to each of the schools and spent about thirty minutes in presenting the subject. Their talks were based on the “Four C’s” of the Y. M. C. A.: clean speech, clean sports, clean scholarship, and clean living, and the students were given an opportunity after the talks to sign pledge cards. Later on, members of the Davidson group will go with Mr. A. C. Shelton, the Charlotte “Y” secretary, to the county schools to continue the campaign there.Made up of J. W. Melton, C. H. Mauzy, R. T. Nunan, A. M. Warren, F. R. Brown, A. M. Frew, Z. V. Long, C. R. Pritchett, and M. T. Gilmour.

Sophs Enjoy Highly Successful Banquet
C. O. Kuester and Dr. Ashley Chappell Are After Dinner Speakers

Members of the Class of '31 enjoyed their first real social meeting when they held their annual banquet at the Chamber of Commerce Hall in Charlotte on the evening of Friday, March 1. The banquet was opened at 7:00 o'clock with an invocation by Camper O'Neal. A delightful meal was served. B. B. Glidewell, the President of the Sophomore Class, made a talk in which he welcomed everyone to the banquet. During the dinner, several toasts were made by members of the class. J. B. Black gave a toast to the Class of '31. After the meal, R. K. Bird presented a toast to the guests of honor; B. B. McClure made one to Davidson; and A. M. Warren gave an original toast to the Sophomore Class. C. O. Kuester, Secretary of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, addressed the gathering and gave a very interesting talk. Dr. Ashley Chappell of Monroe, N. C., who was the main speaker of the evening, was then introduced and gave a very entertaining address in which was mingled a very thought-inspiring message. The banquet ended with the singing of "O Davidson." R. L. McMillan was toastmaster of the banquet.

The Chamber of Commerce Hall, where the banquet was held, was decorated with white roses, and with green and white, the colors of the Sophomore Class. Besides the members of the Sophomore Class, the following guests of honor also attended: Dr. Ashley Chappell, Mr. C. O. Kuester, Dr. R. K. Bird, Ernest Milton, N. C. O'Neal, Z. V. Long, and R. A. Hall.

Wildcat Rifle Team Outpointed In Meet

On Saturday afternoon, March 2, the Davidson College Rifle Team was defeated by both V. M. I. and V. P. I. in a triple rifle match held at Lexington, Va. V. M. I. was high scorer with a total of 1802 points out of a possible 2000. Second place was taken by the V. P. I. riflemen who lost to V. M. I. by a margin of 57 points and won from Davidson with 1745 points. Davidson came last, losing to V. M. I. with 157 points and to V. P. I. with 100 points. The targets used were the kind of National Rifle Association. Four positions were fired by each man (standing, sitting, kneeling, and prone). The possible score for each man was 400 points. Waddell of V. P. I. was high man in the match with a total of 366 points. Cochran of V. M. I. was second with 363, and Johnson of V. M. I. was third scoring 361. Calder was high scorer for Davidson with 334 points.

SUMMARY:
V. M. I.—Cochran—363; Johnson—361; Ketchum—361; Fitzgerald—360; Greene—357; Total 1802.
V. P. I.—Waddell—366; Davis—350; DeLozer—346; Warshaw—344; Parsons—339; Total 1745.
D. C.—Calder—334; Wiley—331; Hall—328; Russell—327; Greyer—325; Total 1645.

PHOTOGRAPHER ARRIVES

A representative of the White Studios of New York City will be here on or about March 12th to complete the taking of all remaining pictures for the annual. He will spend two or three days making individual pictures for all those who have not been photographed. It is hoped that all these men will see to it that they have their pictures made while the representative is here. The remainder of the time will be spent in making pictures of the track, baseball, and tennis teams and the faculty groups.

Honor Roll Addition

Notice from the Registrar's office states that the name of W. R. Weaver was omitted from the Honor Roll published in the last issue. Weaver is a senior majoring in Spanish.

J. P. Quarles Speaks On Insurance As Life Work

Mr. Paul Whitlock Opened Series of Talks Last Week

"Insurance as a Life Work" was the subject of an informal address at the "Y" rooms on Monday night by Mr. J. P. Quarles of Charlotte, N. C., a representative of The Equitable Insurance Co. Some forty or fifty students interested in the subject were present. Mr. Quarles began life as a teacher and drifted into life insurance as a side line. When he decided to make it his life work, he prepared himself by one month of intensive training at New York provided by the company. Of the hundred and three men who took this course with Mr. Quarles, he is the only one still in the business.

When a man enters insurance as a profession he asks himself three questions: What is the income? Will I like the work? What is its future? Insurance is the greatest business in the world today. It covers a wider range of fields than any known profession. It also offers a great service both to the seller and the buyer. To succeed, a young man must combine vision and program. Independence is the keynote of the game. Each individual is his own boss, a free lance, so to speak, and succeeds only as he sells. He can make nothing or he can become rich. It all depends on his own drive and initiative. The day is past when anyone can jump into insurance as a business and succeed. A man under twenty-five years of age is not encouraged to enter the game. The man who leads in school activities is the man who is wanted, not necessarily an honor student. Practical experience with the daily world and salesmanship are great assets. The most pleasing feature of the game is that the younger man can never push you out as in most lines of work. No one can push you out but yourself. If you can sell, you can stay. You are your own employer.

Paul C. Whitlock

The Vocational Guidance Institution, sponsored by the Davidson College Y. M. C. A., was opened Tuesday night, February 26th, when Mr. Paul C. Whitlock, a prominent Charlotte attorney, spoke on Law as a Life Work. Mr. Whitlock has been practicing law for 20 years in Charlotte and he was at one time the law partner of former Governor Cameron Morrison. He is also a former President of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, and by his service to his community, has won the right to the name of one of Charlotte's leading civic leaders.

In his talk Tuesday night, Mr. Whitlock discussed Law from a practical standpoint. "The most important duty of a lawyer is to serve. Law is a profession of service. So any young man going into this profession with the idea of becoming rich will be disappointed. The older you are the more your income as a lawyer will be, for people believe the judgment of an older man to be sounder than that of a young man. A young lawyer cannot expect a large practice until he has proven himself, but any young man with an average education and determination to do something should succeed in Law. Mr. Whitlock stated that if he were hiring a young man, he would not ask him if he had been the best orator in his class or whether he had made the Honor Roll, but he would find out all he could about his character, his honesty, and his willingness to work. Any young man with these three traits would be welcome in his business.

One-Act Play Given By Club Dramatists

Last Wednesday the Dramatic Club presented "A Night in An Inn" to an audience of about seventy-five people, mostly students. It was a very unique, unusual drama, and excellently put on. J. A. Jones took the leading part, that of the Toff. Watson Wharton, W. W. Taylor, and W. E. McAlpine completed the number who had speaking parts. Alec Warren took the part of the Idol, while Allen Whitehead, T. J. Rulfs, and Newton Dicks were Indian priests.

On Saturday during Junior Speaking, the Dramatic Club will present "The Taming of the Shrew" using modern dress. The Club is working on this now and will be able to give the audience a rare treat when they present it.

ANNUAL ELECTIONS FOR OFFICES WILL BEGIN MARCH 11TH

Student Body President First Officer to be Chosen
Y. M. C. A. HEAD NEXT
Rest of Major and Minor Elections to be Finished Before April 15th

With the coming of the March winds also comes the annual student body elections. Each year, during the middle of March, are held the elections that determine the leaders of the student body for the next year. To some, elections mean everything, they are the Juniors. To them it is the crucial time of their college life. The Seniors regard the election merely as another time which shows their college life is nearing an end. The Sophomores are hopeful, their turn comes next, they watch and vote faithfully for the one that they know best. The Freshmen merely vote, it is their first election and it is with a feeling of importance that they vote. A vote for the man with the greatest athletic prominence or with the ready smile.

As always, the first major election will be that for the president of the student body. On Monday, the 11th, the Student Council will present the names of their nominees, nominations will then be opened, and Tuesday morning in chapel the first ballot will be held, and so on until one candidate receives a majority. Together with the election of the president will come the election of the two vice-presidents and the secretary and treasurer. Following the student body president election will come the Y. M. C. A. election. Next in line will be the election of the next editor of the Davidsonian followed by athletic association voting. After these four major elections will come the rest of the minor student body elections and all of the class elections. All officers must be elected before the spring holidays. This is in accordance with a provision of the student body constitution.

Rondthaler Speaks At Vesper Service

"Jesus was a poet by nature through His direct descent from David," said Dr. H. E. Rondthaler, of Winston-Salem, in speaking on the topic "The Lord's Prayer" Sunday night at "Y" Vespers. Dr. Rondthaler is president of Salem College and listed in "Who's Who." He is the son of Bishop Rondthaler of the Moravian Church, and he was introduced to the students by Dr. J. M. McConnell as "an illustrious son of an illustrious father."

Dr. Rondthaler discussed the Lord's Prayer as a poem, and in illustrating his points used a great deal of beauty and expression. His speech was in substance as follows:

The Lord's Prayer is a poem both in form and in content, but it differs somewhat from our present standards of poetry. It was composed by Christ in the form of poetry which was based on two elements: rhythmic or pendulum-like swing, and repitan or use of one phrase in several connections in the same sentence. Rhythm is shown throughout the prayer; for example, "forgive us our debts—as we forgive our debtors." Repitan is illustrated by the use of "on earth as it is in Heaven" in the following: "Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth as it is in Heaven." The prayer is divided into three parts: the introduction, the body, and the doxology. It was given by Christ to unlettered men who could easily remember rhythm, and it was probably given by him after he had used it several times. The prayer loses none but rather gains value when said as a poem.

E. Z. DuBose rendered a special solo, accompanied by J. G. Johnston. R. E. Hill led the meeting.