Yes Page Two January 31, 1929

“THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 cents per copy
$2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 7:00 p. m., Monday.
Anonymous articles will not be published.

AUBREY BROWN........-..-. -Editor-in-Chief
W. M. POWELL....-.-..--Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF:
F. D. MILLER --Managing Editor
C. M. P -Managing Editor
R. F. Managing Editor
Ze Ni orts Editor
V. A. ---News Editor
P. B. F -Society Editor
Dz. P. Feature Editor
W. W. -Assistant Editor
J. L. BROWN...-- .--Assistant Editor
C. R. LAKE..... .-Associate Editor
B. MORIARITY -.-Associate Editor
W. K. PRITCHETT.-.-.-..-.-Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF:
Di ACMI DGS cbesavcddgacesce Asst. Bus. Mgr.
E. H. McCALL ..-Asst. Bus. Mgr.
W. B. McGUIRE —-Asst. Bus. Mgr.
R. F. SLOOP-... .-Circulation Mgr.
H. B. JENNINGS. -Subscription Mgr.
H. McLEAN ..-.. Solicitor
G. D. EVERINGT Solicitor
A. CANNON Solicitor
H. D. MAJORS. Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB:
President
Vice-President
E. S. HEEFNER.....---.- Secretary-Treasurer
R. ALDERMAN
R. PRESTON
H. DUBOSE
V. C. RAGIN
R. GRAHAM
D. RUSK
W. KIRKPATRICK
W. R. WEAVER
H. LONG
S. S. WILEY
P. McBRYDE
J. V. D. MIDDLETON

THURSDAY, JANUARY 31, 1929

A cigarette lighter is a sign of wealth. Not that anybody can’t own one but only the rich have time to light one. What's wrong with this sentence?

The Pan-Hellenics will be given over to a resume of exam methods employed by different institutions. And they tell us that if a college man doesn’t speak to you he isn’t snobbish, he’s just sleepy. Well now, Davidsonians either get their eight hours or take several education courses.

All students who are rejoicing that exams have departed might be listed under four heads, namely, freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors. Freshmen would be different! Exams seem to make them assert their so-called class spirit. Maybe they thought the profs would be afraid to flunk them for fear of a riot or perhaps a walk-out.

Loving cup offered for champion ping-pong artist. Now all we need is a cup offered for the most accomplished bull artist. Major Hoople must be rewarded.

FRESH FROSH

Recent showing of insubordination by the freshmen must be due to the four or five months during which they had no organization and during which time they had no opportunity to combine for any one purpose. Now we are not sanctioning the break made by them but only trying to arrive at a cause back of the outburst of enthusiasm which was certainly not engendered by examinations, unless they be a queer lot indeed.

After the period of “campus” the freshies must know that there is something stronger than outward manifestations of pseudo class pride, for the punishment meted out seems (unless there have been developments since this writing) to have been of the proper variety. Under existing conditions (and some wish they were otherwise) the student body is behind the Court of Control. And even the Class of '32 must recognize some regulations.

VAGABONDING

A practice only slightly observed before but one which merits attention and serious consideration is that of “vagabonding”—sitting-in on various courses to which one has not been assigned. Especially in the universities is such procedure followed and to the resultant good of the student, but sanction or encouragement has never put the practice into effect here.

That one might derive several decided benefits is evident. First, there would be a broader insight into interesting courses which the student has not been able to incorporate into his schedule. Another distinct advantage would be that the man who is undecided as to elective courses might sit in on several classes and discover their nature—or the professors. Some system could be worked out whereby students might know what lectures are being given at a certain time and would be able to avail themselves of this added opportunity. Let’s do some “vagabonding.”

COLLEGE “BABBITTRY”

Just as almost every other type of manhood is represented in the college group so is the Sinclair Lewis Babbitt—the conforming, collegiate, activity-mad fellow who clutches at anything savoring of group sanction and of the fad of the moment. He accepts bids to every organization that offers opportunity to wear another key or charm on his chain until his so many interests are divided into all too many channels.

The Babbitt is always eager to help arrange anything in order to help the other fellow may have a showing and as one has put it, “he is perfectly willing to work on a dozen or so committees, of about the importance of filling the water glasses for the debating team, when if he were to devote his energies to one activity he might be able to be ‘one for whom the water glasses were filled.’”

Such a popular practice as this has a future of continued practice, for there are those coming in all the time who are ready to replace the departing Babbitts and are collecting keys and honors and whatnots just as their predecessors.

INTRAMURALS

With the “body-building policy” there is another development that we would like to see upon the campus. This is the development of more intramural sports than are now in practice. At present the only competition within the college lies in the class basketball and track events. Boxing is coming forward, but as yet there has been nothing done toward a comprehensive program of competition between the classes or groups. There are many sports, not all of them strictly intramural, that would furnish a suitable basis for tournaments.

Another reason for more practical exercise or competition is the effect that it has upon the athletic teams. In a college as small as Davidson, every bit of available talent is necessary for the best teams. A comprehensive program of intramural athletics would be a great asset in developing and proving those with ability. Not only the physical development is an asset, but also the fact of the psychological attitude developed. In any school where there is much interest in athletic competition there is bound to be an athletic complex in regard to the larger and more important sports.

The only hitch in this idea is, would there be much interest in any form of intramurals on a large scale? It seems probable that there would be as much interest as is manifested in the present few sports, and as many men are taking the daily exercises offered in the gym, why should not this interest expand to take in a varied program of sports? It is hard to outline a program to be followed. It is much easier to suggest that something be done; or perhaps the present plan is only a step toward the ultimate end, if so, the above is only commendatory, if not, then it may be treated as something that contains a practical suggestion for future use.

—RFJ.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Current Comment

Hotchpot

WANTON WILES
By John Brown

By Kendrick Pritchett

By Dave Anderson

The much-discussed Cruiser Bill is now before the Senate. This bill calls for the appropriation of $274,000,000 to build fifteen 10,000 ton cruisers and one 13,000 ton aircraft carrier. Five cruisers would be started in each of the next three years. According to the theory that adequate protection is the best means of insuring peace, it is high time for our Navy to be strengthened. According to the Washington Conference of 1921 the tonnage ratio of Great Britain, the United States and Japan should be 5-5-3. However, the present cruiser ratio is approximately 13-5-6½, with the United States at the bottom. And cruisers are considered to be essential to the protection of American commerce.

The Pennsylvania Railroad showed strong and justifiable faith in aviation recently when it ordered ten all-metal tri-motored Ford planes, representing an expenditure of about $650,000. The order was made under Col. Lindbergh’s advice, and will go to the establishing of a 48-hour transcontinental passenger service, air and rail, from New York to Los Angeles.

The stock market may not continue to rise, but the price of seats in the stock exchange shows no sign of falling. The high mark for a seat in 1927 was $305,000 and $595,000 in 1928. The current quotation for stock exchange seats is $620,000.

Chicago is generally thought to be a rather dangerous place for innocent bystanders who are liable to be attacked by machine guns at almost any time. On the contrary, Chicago ranks low in its proportion of homicides. There were only 13.3 homicides per 100,000 population in 1927, while the South seemed to be quite dangerous, Memphis leading with 60.3 homicides per 100,000, followed by Birmingham, Charlotte, Jacksonville, Atlanta and Miami, all of which have higher homicide ratios than Chicago. In Moscow, storm center of Sovietism, the ratio was only 9.8 in 1925.

According to all reports, business for the United States has been exceedingly prosperous in 1928. But not enough of us are business men to share the increasing business profits directly. Commodity prices and sales have meanwhile increased, but employment has decreased and wages have increased very little. It is true that business has prospered, but at the same time there are many individuals of modest means who have not been so prosperous.

Correct this sentence: Now that exams are over, temporarily at least, we're all eager to get back to the old grind after our ten days’ vacation from work.

Oklahoma seems to have trouble in her selection of governors. Gov. H. S. Johnston was recently suspended from office pending trial before the Senate court in impeachment proceedings. It may be recalled that in 1921 impeachment...

(Continued on page 5)

After years spent in the interior of Africa studying the folk-songs of tribes dwelling in the Congo fastnesses, a French explorer declares that some of the chants of the colored troubadours rival the Orphic hymns and the epics of Homer. However, one song does not deal with the heroic deeds of Congo natives. It simply gives an interesting and humorous account of the creation of man. Probably by judging man by his deeds, the Congo poets came to the early conclusion that not God, but the Devil was the creator of Man. A brief sketch of the story in translation is as follows:

The Devil said: If God does something, I will do the same, only in the opposite way. So God made the sun, and the Devil made the moon. At last at the end of creation, God created the monkey, and the Devil made man. Man is a monkey with two hands, not so lovely as man and far worse in character. Man is to the monkey what the moon is to the sun and the night to the day, adds the Congo philosopher.

The government will cease currency of the present size on April 1 in preparation for putting out the new...and smaller currency on July 1. Printing of the new paper money has been underway for several months. The distinctive design of the new bills is expected by treasury officials to make it easy to detect counterfeits.

Dean Raymond Walters of Swarthmore College has announced that for 216 colleges in the approved list of the Association of American Universities, this year’s increase of only 2 percent in enrollment is almost startling. Is this lessened acceleration to be taken as merely accidental and temporary, or is it the beginning of a permanent slowing up or a possible decline? Many teachers, commenting on the figures, state that college enrollment has reached its highest point. Dr. Jones, director of admissions of Columbia University, says, “There are good reasons for believing that it may be more than temporary.” His reasons are our small immigration, the increase of junior colleges (there are now more than 400 in the country), and a decreasing birthrate.

The Pacific Railway, operating street cars and suburban expresses in Southern California, has arranged for school courses to be taken by commuters riding from home to work and back again. The subjects taught are home building, real estate, advertising, English, salesmanship, etc. The textbooks are small and easily carried, and each day’s assignment comes in loose-leaf form. Tests consist of printed questions to be answered by marking a cross in a column. The $18 three months’ course fee is for a The railway company should find the new school a benefit in keeping its passengers contented, even though trains should be blocked and service lag. There is danger, however, that its student-passengers may advance so rapidly in wisdom and wealth that they will graduate from the commuters’ class and leave the trains empty.

OPEN FORUM

IN RE: FILLING UP THE PAPER

To the Editor:

From the Davidsonian. Time out for The Davidsonian until January 31st. Then there may be enough happenings to fill up the columns with something besides what the other colleges are doing. What this place needs is more newsseekers on a big scale.” Thus does the editor excuse the shortcomings of The Davidsonian. There is nothing to fill up the columns, and there are not enough newsseekers. Yes, he is right in the first instance, there is nothing to fill up the columns but a lot of bull. Every article that appears in the paper could be shortened to less than one half of its original length and still contain all the facts that are in it. There is too much bull in the paper, the articles are padded with verbosity until the main facts are so hidden that it is impossible to find them. But in the second statement, that we need more newsseekers; I do not believe that the editor means this in the literal sense. Does he mean that everyone should tell the news editor what is happening? This would be impossible, everything that happens in the student body is known all over the campus before it could appear in The Davidsonian. To take the statement seriously, it is ridiculous, in the first place there is no necessity for more newsseekers, for there is no more news to find. There are very few things of real news happening on the campus. One man can find out what is happening, but it would take a superman to find enough things to fill up the paper. There are two answers to the question, how to fill up the paper. The first is to get a more energetic or rather more ad-producing business staff and fill up the paper that way, or else reduce the size of the paper so that it will be possible to fill it up with the happenings upon the campus or with something that is of interest to the student body. As to the first suggestion, while it might work, yet it is doubtful, the supposed best talent in the student body is working to get ads for the paper, and as yet there have been few occasions when The Davidsonian was so full of ads that there was not the necessity of filling it up with a lot of bull sent out from “College Humor” and others of the sort. The only solution then seems to reduce the size of the paper. This would materially reduce the cost of the publication; it would make the paper easier to fill up. The present Davidsonian has proved itself to be too large, and a smaller paper would certainly remove all of the complaints about there being too much bull and unnecessary filler.

—A READER.

Specials for today: 

THE BULL PEN

College jokes and two second-hand negro jokes. We're off (off is good, from the neck up). It seems that a young darkey was to be hanged for hitting a lady over the head with a pressing club or the like. Just before the dance started, he was asked if he had any last words. “No suh, I ain’t got nothin’ to say, ‘cepting that dis sho am gonna be a pow’ful lesson to me.” (Moral: Let this be a powerful lesson to you and read something good for a change).

Two negatives make an affirmative. Exams are past (and passed?), praises be to St. Valentine and other patron saints of bull. Yours loquaciously, his honor the editor of the Bull Pen, is suffering from a severe attack of writer’s cramps. Speaking of bull, say, you ain’t seen nothing yet, as they say in Chicago. We have had several folks remark that this column is the biggest bunch of bull in existence, but, as man to man (have a Roi-Tan), this is an also-ran besides some of those exams we handed in. Therefore, there is a great shortage in the livestock market, especially in bulls, so we are not in the best of form for this week.

MISS PRUDE ON LETTER WRITING

Many requests have come in to Miss Prude seeking aid in composing letters to fond parents, girl friends, executive committees, etc. She submits the following model for a guide.

Davidson, (N. C.) (Date—if any)

Dearest—(say “I” and give your full name):

Sorry I haven’t answered your long, nice letter sooner but I have been so busy with exams (Copyright 1492 by C. Columbus—used by special permission). Besides, I have been sick from a severe attack of fallen eyebrows and flat feet. My beloved—(what-have-you), I have been thinking of you and you alone. You are the baloney in my applesauce. Say, where did you get that pretty (blond, dark, golden, curly, green—hair? No foolin’. Well, we like you lots but must go now. I have so much studying to do, you know. Kisses and caresses, XXX Me. Send dog-biscuits next time, as my roommate eats too. P.S.S. Please send sledge-hammer, also.

AND WE LEARNED ABOUT WOMEN FROM THEM

—N. C. C. W.

Being the second of a series of studies based on observation, experiment and whatnot.

1. Dynamite, nitroglycerine, etc., are not the only things which should be labeled “Dangerous, handle with care.”
2. In Greensboro it’s a choice of three things: Keep your eyes on the road, hands on the steering wheel and mind on your business.
3. When better N. C. C. W. girls are made, Davidson men will make ’em. (Editor's Note: Oh, you have no idea.)
4. Queens and Converse are mere prep schools for children. Note: And do we believe all we hear?
5. There are no sororities at N. C. C. W. but the girls squabble together aging.

Contemporary Thought:

ONE HUNDRED PERCENT PERFECT

Calvin Coolidge: Two great tests in mental discipline are accuracy and honesty. It is far better to master a few subjects thoroughly than to have a mass of generalizations about many subjects. The world will have little use for those who are right only a part of the time. Whatever may be the standards of the classroom, practical life will require something more than 60 percent or 70 percent for a passing mark. The standards of the world are not like those set by the faculty, but more closely resemble those set by the student body themselves. They are not at all content with a member of the musical organizations who can strike only 90 percent of the notes. They do not tolerate a man on the diamond who catches only 80 percent of the balls. The standards which the student body set are high. They want accuracy that is well-nigh complete. They apply the same standards to candor and honesty. Bluff and pretense may be permitted in the classroom; but in their relations with each other students regard such practices with contempt, and those who resort to them are properly considered to be cheap. They may be willing to view with considerable tolerance those who break the rules of the school, but they will not fail to mete out condemnation and penalty to those who break the rules of training. When the world holds its examinations it will require the same standards of accuracy and honesty which student bodies impose upon themselves. Unless the mind is brought under such standards and discipline as will enable it to acquire these standards at an early period, the grave danger increases that they may never be acquired.

Davidson College

The Charlotte Observer: This popular institution figures in the annual report of the General Education Board in a felicitous manner. The Board makes the statement that during the past 15 years, “the endowment and teaching staff of Davidson have trebled, while the number of students has doubled. Five years ago the main college building with classrooms and laboratories was destroyed by fire. Thereupon temporary wooden structures were built and approximately one-third of a new fire-resistant building was constructed. In order to assist the institution to complete the building, the General Education Board made an appropriation of $100,000 towards $400,000.” And the General Education Board never extended the helping hand to a better cause.