March 27, 1929 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

CAROLINA GAME AT SALISBURY MONDAY

As They Follow the Red and Black
By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Wow—but how about those Indians from over Salisbury way walloping Monk’s Wildcats last week? That one certainly hurt, and will be pretty hard to live down. McInnis and Marrow both looked like a million dollars after Mac’s bad first inning, and it wasn’t their fault that the ’Cats didn’t win. The boys just left their batting togs at home—that’s all. Got to give the twirlers more than any two measly little runs if we expect to win these games. We believe that Davidson will whip any team in the state if the boys hit for their pitchers. At that, the Cats amassed eight bingles to Catawba’s four, but they simply refused to bunch ’em. Freddie Ratchford had tough luck as he rounded third and was tagged out. He was sitting pretty to tally with the tying counter. Captain Fred seems to have his old eye on the pill in earnest this year. Those three hefty swats he poled out Friday looked mighty good to us.

Elon College usually puts out a real baseball team and this year will see no exception to that rule. The Christians will come close to taming the whole state, if you ask us. Harrington, the classy little short-fielder on the Elon team, is lost for the season, however, and that will hurt. He cracked a bone sliding the other day.

Davidsonians All loyal ought to migrate to the regions of Salisbury and Greensboro next Monday and Tuesday for the biggest ball jubilee of the year. Monday the Wildcats meet Carolina in Salisbury, while Cornell University is met at the Gate City on the following day. As far as we can ascertain, it’s the first time a Davidson team has ever engaged a Cornell aggregation, so there is a lot of interest attached to this clash.

Once again Charlotte High romped home with the bacon in the State High Track meet. Looks like some of these schools could frame up a way to lick the Mecklenburg lads, doesn’t it? Those boys of the Queen City take their track seriously and they get results all right.

We extend hearty congratulations to those Wildcat gridders who this week complete spring football. It’s a grind and a hard one, but next fall will show the reason. Trackmen will get their big chance to strut during the holidays when Captain Pritchett leads his men up to V. P. I. for a little setto with the Virginia Technicians. Don’t know so much about the Blacksburg crew, but they have never failed to show a capable team, and in recent years they have bested the Cats on the track. Maybe there'll be a new story this time. The locals are raring to get started, and when they do it is going to be hard to beat them. Again the ’Cats boast the best dashmen in the state. Currie, Whittle, Kell, and Brohard can hardly be equalled in this section. Leftwich is the old reliable weight man who should come through with a bang for Pritchett. He is improving steadily and Dan is plenty good when he gets going.

“So you are the sole survivor of the wreck. Won't you tell us how you came to be saved?”
“I missed the boat.”—Exchange.

Father: “Why are your grades so low after the holidays?”
Son: “Well, Dad, everything comes down after Xmas.”—Bison.

Charlotte Wins Cup For Fourth Consecutive Time in Interscholastic Meet
New Hanover High of Wilmington Runs Close Second

TEN TEAMS COMPETE
Annual Track Meet Between High Schools of State is Success Despite Wet Track

Charlotte High School captured first place in the Interscholastic track meet staged last Saturday on Richardson Field. The representatives of Charlotte won 35 and one-half points to barely nose out New Hanover High of Wilmington. New Hanover was only two points behind with a score of 33 1-2. In fact, a Charlotte man took third place in the javelin to break the tie which existed between the two schools and gave Charlotte its narrow margin of victory over Wilmington. This is the fourth consecutive year in which Charlotte has carried off the cup, emblematic of victory in the meet. The track was in bad shape, due to the heavy rains Saturday morning, which almost necessitated the postponement of the meet entirely, but the weather cleared up and it was run off on schedule. Despite the bad condition of the track, most of the times in the events were very good. The scoring in the meet was Charlotte, 35 1-2; Wilmington, 33 1-2; Greensboro, 17; High Point, 12; Hickory, 9; Raleigh, 8; Asheville, 7; Oxford, 5; Statesville, 3 and Barium Springs, 2.

Summary of Events:
100-yard dash — Goodwin, Greensboro, Hancock, Wilmington, Cooke, Charlotte, Gunter, Greensboro, time 10.6 seconds.
220-yard dash—Hancock, Wilmington, Woodside, Charlotte, Goodwin, Greensboro, McMillan, Charlotte, time 24 seconds.
440-yard run—Lynch, Wilmington; Mitchan, Charlotte; Thomas, High Point; Weaver, Greensboro; time 56.6 seconds.
880-yard run—Dunaway, Raleigh; Rankin, Wilmington; Robinson, Wilmington; Miller, Asheville, time 2 minutes 9 seconds.
120-yard low hurdles—Smith, Wilmington; Laney, Charlotte; Nicholson, Greensboro; Hunter, Charlotte, time 15.4 seconds.
Mile run—Williamson, High Point, Hudson, Raleigh; Hubbard, High Point; Lumpkin, Charlotte, time 5 minutes, 4 seconds.
Mile relay—Wilmington, Lynch, Donnell, Rankin, Hancock; Charlotte, Raleigh and Cherryville, time 3 minutes, 48 seconds.
Shot put—Williams, Oxford; Mullis, Charlotte; Laslie, Charlotte; Horney, Greensboro, distance, 46 feet 5 1-4 inches.
Discus throw—Mullis, Charlotte; Gurley, High Point; Ellis, Statesville; Martin, Asheville, distance 118 feet 11 inches.
Javelin—Martin, Asheville; Bowman, Hickory; Laslie, Charlotte, James, Hickory, distance 152 feet 3 inches.
Pole vault—James, Hickory; Robinson, Wilmington and Hudson, Barium Springs and Goodwin, Greensboro, tied for second, height, 10 feet.
High jump—Kulken, Wilmington; Rankin, Wilmington and Wood, Charlotte tied for second, Ellis, Statesville, height, 5 feet 6 inches.
Broad jump—Laney, Charlotte; Nicholson, Greensboro; Woodside, Charlotte; Smith, Wilmington, distance 20 feet 1 in.

Dad: “What is the proverb about the rolling stone?”
Collegiate One: “A revolving fragment of the Palezoic age collects no cryptogamous vegetation.”

“U-Push ’Em Anywhere We'll See They Get There”
Cars to Rent
Special Rates for Long Trips
HENDERSON AUTO CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

“DRUGS”
“Prescriptions”
Make Our Store Your Store
A Complete Drug Store in a Good College Town
See Our New Line Of Stationery
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
"SODA"
“Drug Sundries”

Baseball Team to Have Busy Holidays
Annual Easter Game With Carolina at Salisbury

Tomorrow, the varsity nine meets Springfield College here. The Springfield team is now making a spring trip through the state after which they will return to encounter Harvard, Vermont, and other northern colleges. Salisbury will be the site of the next game, which will be played with the University of North Carolina. This is a traditional game, being played every year on Easter Monday in Salisbury. Carolina has its usual good team this year and the game will...Undoubtedly be an interesting one. Another northern team, Cornell University, will meet the Wildcats in Greensboro, Tuesday, April 2nd. This team is noted for putting out a strong nine and a stiff encounter is expected. Wednesday, April 10 will witness a clash between the Davidson nine and the Wofford Terriers. The Spartanburg team will meet the Wildcats on Richardson Field, in the first game after the spring holidays. The Freshman baseball schedule does not, according to present plans, open until after the holidays. The first game will be played with the Belmont Abbey nine at Davidson, Monday, April 8. Another encounter at Davidson just after this on April 11, will be held with the Campbell College team, after which the Wildkittens will go to Statesville where they will play the Statesville High nine the next day; a return game is to be played at Davidson on the 17th. Blue Ridge will meet the Freshman team on the 19th of April, at Davidson. The Kittens will then make a short trip across the state playing Duke, Wake Forest, State and others.

Prof.: “What would be better to put on silver coins than ‘In God We Trust’?”
Frosh: “I Need Thee Every Hour.”
—Wildcat.

I see there is a new book out on “What Every Young Girl Should Know,” and it only costs fifty cents. Aw, that’s a waste of money with all the boys so anxious to give lessons free.

Wildcat-Track Men Open Season at V. P. I.
Technicians to Furnish Keen Competition for Locals

WAKE FOREST HERE
Davidson to Send Pick of Trackmen to Compete in Tech Relays at Atlanta

On Friday morning, the varsity track team will leave for Blacksburg, Va., for the annual meet with V. P. I. The team will reach Blacksburg in time for a light workout Friday night to get limbered up for Saturday. Among those who are showing up especially well for the Wildcats may be mentioned Whittle, Leftwich and Regen. Whittle is running the dashes and low hurdles in great form and gives promise of great things this season; Leftwich and Regen are throwing the discus with good results. Both of the latter have added considerable distance to their previous records. Leftwich’s arm is on the bum just at present, but he will probably be able to put the shot in Saturday's meet. Due to his illness, Currie is still a bit off, but will probably be in shape by Saturday. Brohard and Kell are also showing fine form in the 440. V. P. I. has an especially strong team this year. Several consistent first place men from last year are back and form the nucleus of the team. There are also men on the team who distinguished themselves as stars on last year's strong freshman team. The second inter-collegiate meet of the year will be with Wake Forest College at Davidson, April 6th. On April 13th, Davidson will be represented by seven or eight men at the Tech Relays in Atlanta. It has not been definitely decided who will make this trip and will probably be determined by the showing made by men in the next two meets.

Slim: “Have you got one of those home refrigerators?”
Jim: “Yes, and a whistle on it to razz the ice man when he goes by.”

Tragedy in a nutshell: Lion and two lion hunters—Lion and one lion hunter—Lion.

Spring Grid Practice Ends with Holidays
Coaches Stress Fundamentals in Series of Hard Workouts

With the advent of the Easter Holidays here Thursday, spring drills for the Wildcat grid candidates will be brought to a close. The practices have covered a period of about two months and during this time enough progress has been made to enable the coaches to begin work in earnest when the gridders are again called out next fall. The spring drills, as usual, dealt mainly with fundamentals of football but towards the last of the season some tough scrimmages also found their way into the menu. Approximately fifty men answered the initial call and until the baseball and track seasons began this number of candidates was not diminished. The players were daily sent through stiff drills in punting, passing, tackling, charging, etc., and by the end of the season were going through their paces with plenty of real drive and form. The outstanding event of the season, however, was a regular game between two teams picked from the candidates. The score of the contest was close and the game itself was fast and hard-fought despite the summer temperature. Little else out of the ordinary marked the season, and although no startling developments were evident, the coaches consider the spring drills invaluable in preparation for Davidson's 1929 football machine.

She: “You know I like variety, it’s the spice of life.”
He: “Look me over, my name is Heinz.”

They call her “Equator,” her line is warm, but purely imaginary.”
—Hornet.

SENIORS!
Leave your order for personal calling cards to be sent out with invitations, at the Students' Store. Best quality, lowest prices, finest workmanship. Plates delivered with order.

The Students’ Store
IT’S YOURS, WHY NOT PATRONIZE IT?

“Will the gentleman who just coughed, kindly step to the box office ... for a package of Old Golds?”

“Of course, I have never said just those words from the stage—but in all kindness I have often wanted to offer this friendly help to some poor fellow whose cough was interrupting the show and spoiling the enjoyment of those around him.

“A year or so ago, the makers of OLD GOLD ran some ads on the disturbing effect of coughing in theatres. As an actor, I was grateful for those ads. I am more grateful now that OLD GOLD has invited stage folk to help them bring ‘first aid’ information to our unhappy friends the ‘theatre-coughers.’

“My own advice is that prevention is the best aid. The kind of prevention that smoking OLD GOLDS gives. Harsh tobacco irritates the throat, and that causes coughing. Changing to OLD GOLDS soothes the throat and removes the cause of the ‘cough tickle.’

OLD GOLD cigarettes are blended from HEART-LEAF tobacco, the finest Nature grows. Selected for silkiness and ripeness from the heart of the tobacco plant. Mellowed extra long in a temperature of mid-July sunshine to ensure that honey-like smoothness.

On your Radio . . . OLD GOLD HOUR . . . Paul Whiteman, King of Jazz, with his complete orchestra, broadcasts the OLD GOLD hour every Tuesday, from 9 to 10 P. M., Eastern Standard Time, over the entire network of Columbia Broadcasting System.

Why not a carload?

OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN
GROUCHO MARX of the Four Marx Brothers, now starring in one of the biggest Broadway hits of the year "Animal Crackers."

Eat a chocolate, light an Old Gold, and enjoy both!