| * THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

ZEB V. LONG, Jr. Editor-in-Chief
E. H. McCALL Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. B. GRAVES Managing Editor
J. W. McCUTCHAN Managing Editor
C. P. RAGIN Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN Athletic Editor
J. F. PRESTON Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
J. A. CANNON Asst. Bus. Mgr.
L. BOYD Subscription Mgr.
J. A. SHARPE Solicitor
P. M. CONWAY Solicitor
J. H. McCALL Solicitor
U. S. OMAN Solicitor
J. B. MILLER Solicitor
N. C. F. Solicitor

OCTOBER 24, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
—Welcomes Dr. Sam Glasgow to the campus and urges every student to support the services starting Sunday.
—Thinks the Queens Glee Club is a worthy organization.
—Would rather whip Wake Forest than eat Sunday dinner.
—Reminds the Wildcats that not since Monk Younger came here have the Deacons bowed to Davidson.
—Wishes good luck to Red Laird’s Wildkittens as they tackle Rutherford College tomorrow.
—Commends The Citadel for one of the best teams seen here in many moons.
—Enjoyed the drill exhibition Saturday—saw one cadet with a spot on his shoe.
—Tips off the score keepers to give the Wildcats seven points per touchdown as long as Thad Brock is behind the place kick.

YOUNGER’S WAY
That Citadel game last Saturday was a revelation in more ways than one. The superb fighting of Monk Younger’s little Wildcat team against an apparently stronger eleven was added proof that Davidson’s season is just starting. Somebody is in for a big surprise before Monk puts up the moleskins for another year. If the Cats can concentrate on each game, taking them as they come, and giving everything to the particular contest at hand, we have great faith in their ability to be the prize sensation of the season 1929.

Those who expected to see a ragged, weary group of men take the field after a gallant fight against Army were rudely shocked. Instead, they saw a team scrapping harder than ever, holding a powerful offense in check, and then, at the crucial moment, springing an amazing aerial attack which exceeded anything shown by Davidson teams in the past two seasons. And this was the team that sports writers couldn’t even rate as high as the type in their papers—to read Wade Ison in The Charlotte News. What Davidson lacks in the way of star material she has in plain, old-fashioned spunk, and we refuse to side with these generous critics of “Little Davidson” who would relegate her to a back shelf.

Citadel’s offensive thrusts in the first half of that game Saturday would have netted two touchdowns against an ordinary team. Don’t leave Monk Younger’s craft or the scrapping qualities of his men out of your calculations in the future. And with practically the whole squad back next fall plus a hefty crowd of freshmen, things won’t be so bad, will they? Side up with Monk as he sends those scrappers out on the field. He is the Stonewall Jackson of Southern football.

SAM GLASGOW AND CHRIST
Each Sunday evening the “Y” procures an outstanding man to talk at the Vesper Service. From the very nature of the case, our most common reaction to the meeting is a reaction on the character and personality of the speaker. The man who speaks is entirely different each Sunday and we are concerned more with the man than with the message. And this is all very well because there is a vital message, aside from the message which he speaks, in each man whom the “Y” schedules.

But during the fall evangelistic services beginning Sunday, a different situation will arise. Sunday night we will return from Chambers remarking upon the personality and the driving force of Sam Glasgow. Our admiration for him will reach a great height. But there will be six other messages following and as we return from each of these, Sam Glasgow will be eclipsed in our thought by a far greater personality. Our comments will not be on the speaker, but rather on the Christ that the speaker has presented to us. We will find ourselves formulating a new and higher conception of the redeeming grace which is Christ. New channels of service and loyalty will be revealed. A new inspiration to serve will be forthcoming.

The “Y” holds the semi-annual meetings as the very greatest part of its program. It feels that more can be accomplished here than in any other field. Vocational Guidance is an important part of the program; deputations play a vital part. But we must first believe that Christ has a mighty claim on our lives and our services before we can decide what field of work we shall enter for Him. We must first be gripped with the conviction that He calls for our all, before we can put forth our fullest and best in business, in teaching, in law, or in whatever field our services may lie.

The first four days of next week are days in which we should forget our usual trend of life. The faculty will co-operate in lightening the scholastic work. We should subordinate all other cares during this period and think on the question of ourselves and God. It should be a period of deeper devotion and higher spirituality.

To accomplish the greatest for Christ during this meeting we should not miss a single message that Sam Glasgow has for us. Each message will grow out of the previous one and if a single one is missed we have dropped a link from the chain. Prayer is another thing. In our private prayer, in the prayer group on each floor of the dormitories, the meeting and its results should be held uppermost in the thoughts of all, so that with the blessing of God we may make this meeting a crucial top experience in our spiritual life.

F. D. M.

JOIN A LITERARY SOCIETY
In this day of social diversification, should the students affiliate themselves with a literary society? The Gamecock answers yes because after all, does any organization completely fulfill the purpose of a literary society? Let us look into the other organizations on the campus and see if they fulfill the mission of a literary society.

The athletics that one finds in our colleges certainly do not train a man in the art of self-expression in a verbal way. There is a vast difference in an address by a literary man and the bark of a quarterback as he calls his signals. Does one find self-expression in a club, fraternity, glee club, band, or any other campus organization as he finds it in the literary society? No, these organizations serve their purpose but none of them can fulfill the purpose of a literary society.

Many of the most influential men of the state will tell you that they received their training for a public career in a literary society, in one of the institutions of higher learning in our state or country. Who are the leaders on our campus? If you will take the trouble to look them up, you will find that over ninety-five percent of them belong to a literary society. Ask them what they are deriving from the societies and they will tell you, in most cases, that it has been the means of making men out of themselves. The Gamecock feels that if these men can derive benefits from a society, that others can also. The societies will be glad to have you, so take advantage of these golden opportunities to join one before it is too late—South Carolina “Gamecock.”

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

All states have had their troubles with the highway finance problem. The coming gubernatorial campaign in South Carolina will have as its main issue, a $65,000,000.00 bond issue. North Carolina has issued and has continued to issue millions of bonds. Virginia, on the other hand, has adopted the “pay as you go” plan. Citizens of both states protest mightily and with much gusto. Any modern method of financing state improvements should be welcomed with rejoicing. Pro-consuls and consuls no longer extort drachmas or sesterces, casting theirPeople in degraded poverty for the luxurious splendor of their own villas. For years, cats have been the pets of royalty, of the bourgeois, and of the plebeians. Recently, a beautiful Maltese was freed from a padlocked cabaret by order of a Federal Judge. A beautiful thought, and quick action by the S.P.C.A.! Fluffy felines are well-suited to sit and sleep by the open fire; they have been known to catch rodents. But we can’t refrain from thinking of neighbors we have known, who have kept a bounteous supply of old shoes and slippers for midnight serenades.

At quite a recent date, Federal agents have uncovered one of the largest booze rings in existence. Operating from the Atlantic seaboard to the Mississippi River, this combine was veritably saturating the country. Every member had a legitimate business or profession. They felt themselves absolutely safe. The only manner in which prohibition agents were able to detect the system was by placing secret operatives to work with suspects. Regardless of the moral question as to whether officers of the law should use questionable methods to obtain convictions, the fact remains that the government does intend to enforce the Volstead Act. It will be enforced!

Benito Mussolini, to the surprise of everyone, has relinquished seven of the ministerial posts which he himself held. Many deemed this a relaxation of the dictatorship. But it must be clear that this man, an entire government within himself, is merely showing that foresight which has characterized his former coups d'état. He realizes that he must, in time, return to dust. His love for Italy is too great to permit himself to forget its future. It must not become as Rome after Caesar, as France after Napoleon, or as Austria after Franz Joseph.

Emil Ludwig, in a recent edition of the American Magazine, has dared to name the world’s ten greatest women. Foremost in his choice were those women who were God-fearing and home-loving. Some of them, it is true, did not remain at home, but that was because they felt the call of a greater work elsewhere. Perhaps the main exception to this statement was his first choice, Aspasia, who was the chief impetus behind that great Greek, Pericles. Catherine of Siena, Joan of Arc, Queen Elizabeth, Maria Theresa, Madame de Maintenon, Florence Nightingale, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Madame Curie, and Eleanor Duse complete the list. Ludwig shows very clearly that a woman need not be notorious or famous to be a great woman. He did not mention Cleopatra or Lucretia Borgia. But Ludwig omitted the greatest woman of all. Every man, every boy, every woman has—a MOTHER!

Everybody is chewing Wrigley’s gum. It is a practical advertisement to say the least. Wrigley is a good and consistent advertiser. His baseball team, the Chicago Cubs, are a living one. Home runs and base-hits say more than a good many Saturday Evening Posts. A pennant winner speaks in more ways than one. However, we can't help but feel that if the Cubs had won the World’s Series we would have received six sticks of gum instead of three. In fact, we are rather sorry that we rooted for the Athletics, now.

MASON AND DIXON’S LINE

Few southern people know the details surrounding this survey which became the most frequently mentioned imaginary line in the world. Nearly two centuries after the trouble began, which caused this survey to be made, Louis F. Hart recently visited the border line between Maryland and Pennsylvania, in a pilgrimage to the original Mason and Dixon’s Line. Mr. Hart not only visited the actual spot where Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon started their famous survey but spent a great deal of time gathering data and illustrations around which to build the story of the famous piece of engineering. Using HOLLAND'S, The Magazine of the South, as his vehicle, Mr. Hart says, “Time changes all things. Old hatreds die and new loyalties are born, but the demarcation between peoples—especially when it goes back, as this one does, to the Roundheads and Cavaliers of Cromwell’s day—cannot be wiped out in an hour. Customs and modes of thinking remain when material landmarks have crumbled and vanished. Thus it is that in setting out to relocate Mason and Dixon’s Line after so many years, we must take into account not only the bench marks which took from the estate of Charles, Lord Baltimore, three thousand square miles or so, but also those which give double unity to some forty million people living in the South today. “Opinion may differ as to where the line should run, but no one can deny that it is there. Nor would anyone go so far as to say that on one side dwells the practical, and on the other the ideal. Humanity is too imperfect to achieve the absolute in either direction, were that result desired. The fact remains that the home of romance is the South, her threshold guarded with uncompromising loyalty by her sons.”

Smokehouse Saga
By W. C. Ragin (Published Weekly)

It was the day of the Davidson-Citadel football game. The weather was perfect, it being just the kind of a day that radio announcers rave over and sandwich in between breath-taking plays. I draped over to the stadium in my Sunday best, got a good seat on the fifty-yard line (or as near to the fifty-yard line as good seats go), purchased a bag of peanuts (hot-dogs being unavailable), and settled down to enjoy the game. But alas, alas (yes, a lass was the cause of my misfortune), the Fates had decreed that things should not thus come to pass. Hardly had I munched a dozen goobers when in stalks a fellow student and his girl. They looked in vain for a couple of seats, and not finding any, they came over and sat down by me. Still, I had no premonition of any impending disaster, and I was even carefree enough to down another Tom’s Toasted with gusto, who, by the way, is one peach of a guy. The game progressed rapidly and finally arrived at that hat-crushing part when Davidson held Citadel for four downs, the ball being left on what appeared to be the two-millimeter line. Naturally, the spectators went wild, as spectators will do, and raised the very dickens. At this crucial point, the young lady turned to her escort and announced, “Oh, I’m so disappointed that I could weep! I mean I really could.” At this, her gentleman friend turned pale, gasped a time or two, and finally asked that soul-searching question, “Why?” “Oh,” she lisped, “Davidson didn’t score.” The aforesaid escort at last pounded it through her dome that it was Citadel that had almost scored, although she insisted that Davidson should wear blue, because it was more becoming. After this, I began to eat my peanuts rather mechanically while the game raged on. During the last quarter, one of the teams turned on an opposing player as one man, stepped daintily in his face, trampled him quite artistically, and left him lying on the cold, cold ground. Hereupon, the following snappy dialogue took place:

The Eternal Female: “I wish you'd look at that idiot lying on the ground. He'll catch his death of cold.”
The Exalted Escort: “No, m’deah, he’s not resting. He’s just had both legs broken.”
Infernal Female: “Oh, how awful! I’ll bet (at this a Student Councilman shifts uneasily in his seat) that he’s a halfback, because only half of him comes back out of a game.”
Exhausted Escort: “Yeah, dearie, the fullback gets all the breaks, because he gets out whole, but the quarterback comes out in small chunks.”

I could stand no more, so just as the poor boy began to explain that they called certain players tackles, because they had to block and tackle, I uttered a piercing shriek, heaved my ground-peas to the four winds, and left. (Exit in a flurry of snow.) I later read all about the game in the Sunday paper.

For a long time, I have been giving my careful consideration to the idea of running a “Bright Sayings of the Little Tots” section in this column, and at last, I have got the nerve to try it. (I guess my gentle readers, both of them, think that I have my nerve to run any of this.) So here goes. Alley oop!

The Babbling of the Brats

A proud mother had just put her little Fanny to bed, and as was the custom, she was reading a bedtime story to her. On this particular night, the text was to be found in the charming story of “The Three Bears.” The story had progressed to the part where the bears returned home (you see, I know my bedtime stories), and the mother turned to the little girl and asked, “Do you think that Goldilocks was afraid when the bears came in the room?” At this, little Fanny chirps, “Why no, Mummy, Goldilocks wasn’t afraid of bears. She had a bicycle and she knew how to handle-bars.”