THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 3, 1929 — Army-Davidson Game Is Attractive to Alumni

Arrangements Have Been Completed for Entertainment of Former Davidson Students

Davidson College alumni, in large numbers, are planning to attend the Army-Davidson football game at West Point, N. Y., on October 12th, according to reports which have come to the alumni secretary from association authorities in New York, and through the local office. Approximately a dozen inquiries about the purchasing of tickets and arrangements for that day have been answered.

Through the close co-operation of Mr. W. P. Anderson, '07, president of the New York chapter of the Davidson Alumni Association, and Capt. W. A. Dumas, '15, on the faculty of the Military Academy, arrangements for the alumni entertainment have been completed. A letter was mailed out to over 250 Davidson alumni by the alumni secretary Monday, informing them of the plans. Davidson alumni will sit in a body, in a specially reserved section next to the cadet corps. Those planning to attend are to notify Ernest Milton, who in turn will mail the necessary number of badges for the alumnus’ party to admit him and his friends to that section. Many replies today were being received by Mr. Milton, and by Monday he should be able to state the approximate number who would be on hand to witness this first intersectional football engagement for the Wildcats since 1917.

Mr. Anderson will be in charge of the motorcade from New York to West Point on Saturday morning. Definite information as to the place of assemblage and the time of departure were not obtainable at the time The Davidsonian went to press, but alumni were asked in Mr. Milton’s letter to notify Mr. Anderson if they intended to drive to the Academy, and if they had extra space in their cars.

A special luncheon will be served to the Davidson alumni at the Officers’ Club at West Point, at 12 o'clock noon, Capt. Dumas having made these arrangements. An attractive menu was obtained for the occasion. All of these arrangements dovetail into the effort to have Davidson alumni together as much as possible.

Interest in the Army-Davidson football game was high at meetings of the chapters in Philadelphia, New York, and Boston last spring, and for several of the recent classes, the number of members attending will make it sound almost like a Home-Coming affair, or a class reunion at commencement.

1928 Changes

Changes in address of 1928 alumni during the past several months are as follows:
J. M. Akers, 1004 W. Fifth St., Charlotte.
B. G. Alderman, D143 McCulloch, Soldiers’ Field, Boston, Mass.
P. M. Andrew, 415 Grimes Bldg., Chapel Hill.
H. B. Arbuckle, Jr., 78 Wall St., New Haven, Conn.
W. B. Bradford, Jr., 3605 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.
G. S. Brooks, Lyman Manufacturing Co., Lyman, S. C.
C. R. Carr, 340 16th St., Philadelphia, Pa.
C. Cation, 315 James Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn.
C. O. Cathey, Rutherford College, Connelly Springs.
W. A. Cathey, Harmony.
W. L. Lingle, Jr., 241 Kent St., Brookline, Boston, Mass.
R. S. Lowrance, 567 Peeples St., Atlanta.
J. C. Montgomery, Jr., 3605 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

SEVERAL ALUMNI DEATHS

Fourteen Davidson College alumni, including the one listed in The Davidsonian last week, have died during the summer months and early fall. Perhaps there were others, but the alumni secretary has obtained information about the deaths of fourteen. A short account of some of them is given below, and the remainder will be recounted in the next issue of this publication.

Dr. H. E. Shepherd, ’62

Dr. Henry Elliot Shepherd, native of Fayetteville and distinguished man of letters, died at his Baltimore, Md., home on May 29th, in his 86th year. He had retired some time before from active work as a teacher and author, having earned a wide reputation as a philologist, particularly as an English scholar, and was considered an authority on that language. He was the author of “The History of the English Language,” the author of a number of textbooks and commentaries. His best-known work was “A Biography of General Robert E. Lee.” As a literary critic, he achieved a reputation among writers for sound discrimination and judgment. Among his acquaintances were Tennyson, Longfellow, Lowell, Sir James Bryce, James Murray, and Cardinal Gibbons.

Dr. Shepherd attended Davidson College, the University of North Carolina, and the University of Virginia. He taught in Charleston College, in South Carolina, and was president of that institution for many years. He was superintendent of the city schools of Baltimore for many years, and was a member of many educational and scholastic associations. Dr. Shepherd was a Confederate veteran and was severely wounded at the Battle of Gettysburg. Before his death, he was among the oldest living alumni of Davidson.

W. E. Walton, '71

William Erwin Walton, ’71, for years cashier of the Bank of Morganton and prominently identified for at least half a century with many Morganton enterprises, died at his home in Morganton on August 28. The deceased had been in ill health for a number of years and was forced to relinquish his work in the bank twoYears ago, death had been expected for several weeks. Mr. Walton was a descendant of one of the pioneer families of Morganton and that section, and was related to many of the most prominent families of western North Carolina. He entered Davidson from Morganton and after his graduation from here in 1871, returned to that city. His last visit to Davidson was on November 13, 1926—Home-Coming Day that year.

Dr. Howard Reedy, '75

Dr. Howard Reedy, pioneer physician of Rowland, N.C., and that immediate section, died at his home in Rowland on July 12 after a short illness. He was 75 years of age. It is significant that a little over a month before his death, Dr. Reedy returned to Davidson for his first visit since his graduation in 1875, having remained away from the campus 54 years. He was attending the Confederate Veterans’ Re-union in Charlotte. After graduating from Davidson, Dr. Reedy was a merchant for five years, but decided to enter the medical field, and attended Charleston Medical College. He practiced at Chester, S.C., for a short time, and then went to Rowland, where he remained until his death.

Dr. C. M. Hepburn, '78

Charles McGuffey Hepburn, former dean of the University of Indiana, and author of several books on jurisprudence, died in a hospital at Indianapolis, Ind., on July 11th. The immediate cause of his death was a heart attack. Dr. Hepburn lacked a few days of being 71 years of age. This prominent educator received his bachelor of arts degree from Davidson, an LL.B. degree from the University of Virginia, and an LL.D. from Miami University in Ohio. He was a tutor in the preparatory department of Davidson in 1880, admitted to the Ohio bar in 1881, a lecturer on common law pleading in the Cincinnati Law School from 1897-1903, appointed professor of law at Indiana University in 1903, was dean of the law school from 1918 to 1925, and was research professor of law since 1925. In 1909, Dr. Hepburn organized the American Institute of Law, New York, for the purpose of establishing a post-admission to the bar course of legal study. He had been secretary of the section of legal education of the American Bar Association, chairman of the section, and chairman of legal education of the committee of the Indiana State Bar Association.

R. S. Collins, '81

Robert Samuel Collins, '70, native of the Steele Creek section near Charlotte, died at his home in Philadelphia, Pa., on May 16th. The deceased was an expert penman, and his lifetime was devoted to this art. After leaving Davidson, he was connected with the Kings Mountain High School, and later studied at Bryant, Stratton and Saddler Business College in Baltimore. He was principal of the Kings Mountain Business College for two years, was connected with the Writing Institute at Nashville, Tenn., one year, and later went with the Knoxville Business College at Knoxville, Tenn. For more than 25 years, he was an instructor at a business school in Philadelphia, and after his retirement traveled extensively in the United States.

SCABBARD AND BLADE

(Continued from page 1)

Captains F. W. Johnston, L. L. Boyd, and C. C. Orr. As an official endorsement of their confidence in the purpose of Scabbard and Blade, the following faculty members have been initiated into membership: Col. W. R. Scott, Capt. J. L. Otto, Capt. J. W. Elkins, Dr. J. W. McConnell, Dr. H. M. Noffett, Dr. Frazer Hood, and Mr. F. L. Jackson.

From an engraving of the time in Harper's Weekly Autumn of ’79

Yale and Princeton were battling to a tie at Hoboken, New Jersey, a small group of scientists, directed by Thomas A. Edison, was busy at Menlo Park, only a few miles away. On October 21, their work resulted in the first practical incandescent lamp. Few realized what fifty years would mean to both electric lighting and football. The handful who watched Yale and Princeton then has grown to tens of thousands today. And the lamp that glowed for forty hours in Edison’s little laboratory made possible today’s billions of candle power of electric light. In honor of the pioneer achievement, and of lighting progress, the nation this year observes Light’s Golden Jubilee. Much of this progress in lighting has been the achievement of college-trained men employed by General Electric.

JOIN US IN THE GENERAL ELECTRIC HOUR, BROADCAST EVERY SATURDAY AT 9 P.M., E.S.T. ON A NATIONWIDE N.B.C. NETWORK.