THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1929

King Football

It is Saturday afternoon in hundreds of cities and hamlets in the United States. Football fandom has gathered on countless
athletic fields to witness America’s most thrilling, most spectacular, and most grilling sport. There is a moment of suppressed silence.
Eleven dirt-covered figures go into a huddle. With military-like precision, the huddle vanishes and assumes a formation along the line
of scrimmage. “29—45—37—18.” Suddenly the two forward walls come together; there is a mass of flying arms and legs, and
a scurrying back comes around the end of this human barrier, clutching tightly under one arm a brown pigskin. Before
him, two grim-visaged teammates clear the way; he straight-arms one would-be tackler, sidesteps another, breaks into the open, and heads
for the distant goal line.

The crowded stands are upon their feet in an instant. Cries of “there he goes” or “stop him” are lost
in the pandemonium of noise. Everyone yells; staid businessmen momentarily forget their dignity and join less dignified freshmen in the
general uproar; pretty girls embrace their escorts and shriek at the top of their voices; solemn college professors don the
mantle of the commonplace and share in the emotional frenzy of the moment. Thus—KING FOOTBALL once again ascends his throne,
and the sporting public hails its new monarch for the ensuing three months.

This present season promises to be the greatest in the history of the game. Never before has interest in opening
contests been so manifest. Over one million persons were spectators at various games throughout the country this past Saturday. This
fact is significant when one recalls that not so very long ago only an alumnus of a college would attend
a game; today, people who never trod the halls of our seats of higher learning are rabid football fans, who
attend the games as religiously as the graduates and whoop it up for “dear old what-have-you.”

No doubt many factors have contributed, either directly or indirectly, to this recent widespread interest in the sport. Of these,
perhaps the new open style of play is the most outstanding. This open game leaves very little to the imagination
of the spectator; one can clearly see just what it’s all about. Modern football technique is based on truly scientific
principles. Strategy, deception, and speed are now vital phases of football theory and practice. The frequent usage of the end
run and the forward pass make the game more rapid, more spectacular, and thus more appealing to the sensation-loving public.

The band, with its snappy drills and bright regalia, has added a great deal of color and zest to the
game. Cheerleaders and cheering sections are a major part of the afternoon’s hurrah. Their cheering and enthusiasm radiate throughout the
crowd. How pallid a part would the game alone play without them at the show!

Some football enthusiasts believe that football alone has won and held the magnificent following that the game now enjoys. But
I am inclined to think that the increasing interest of women has been a vital factor. Once upon a time,
a man could attend a game and go home and tell the wife all about it. But that time has
passed. It started to pass when a very few men began taking their wives with them. Women became fascinated with
the sport at once—and overnight football became the autumnal style show. And, although they don’t, with few exceptions, understand the
fine points of the game, their brilliant-hued apparel of the very latest mode forms a distinct background that is always
attractive to the masculine eye and covetously envied by the feminine glance. Football should be grateful for their patronage—their mere
presence lends an added touch of realism that otherwise would be noticeably lacking.

Size is no longer essential for a college to gain fame on the gridiron in this present day and age.
Probably the best example of this principle is the sensational rise of Centre College a few years ago. Led by
the famous “Bo” McMillan, this small Kentucky college of three hundred students rose from obscurity into national prominence by defeating
some of the largest universities in the country. Some colleges that are inferior in numbers and equipment are now on
a par with the great institutions as far as football is concerned. The spectacle of a small school clashing with
a larger one more than anything else appeals to the average fan, and he will attend a game to root
heartily for the smaller contestant, if merely to take the “under-dog’s” part.

Another factor in the increasing popularity of football is the steady elimination of weak teams. In the past, the outstanding
teams in the country could be counted on the fingers of your right hand; today, the number of strong teams
almost defies compilation. There was a time when the Big Three of Harvard, Yale, and Princeton dominated the sport—but it
has been a long time since any of this trio has been mentioned for national championship honors.

Last year, the leading teams in the country were Pennsylvania, Army, Carnegie Tech, New York University, Illinois, Michigan, California, Georgia
Tech, and Tennessee. In reviewing the situation for 1929, it looks as if a number of new teams will join
the old guard in fighting for the championship. The University of Pittsburgh looms as the most distinct threat to Georgia
Tech's crown—Dartmouth, strengthened by the return of Al Marsters to 1927 form, seems destined for a great season—Georgia, boasting wins
over Yale and North Carolina, may make a strong bid for the Dixie title—Notre Dame must always be considered in
the running—Ohio State, under a new regime, may prove a tough team in the Western Conference.

Scarcely any team can hope to go through an entire season with a spotless record. Most always there comes a
day when any team goes “stale” and an inferior eleven sends them down to defeat. Already, in the first few
weeks of this schedule, California has defeated Pennsylvania; Ohio State has conquered Michigan; Fordham has triumphed over N.Y. University; North
Carolina was a winner over Georgia Tech; Oglethorpe has walloped Georgia; W. & J. has tied Carnegie Tech; Harvard and
the Army have fought to a draw. Each of these battles may prove turning points in their respective teams' records.
It is rather early to pick the champion—but just at present, the University of Pittsburgh appears to have the post
position at the quarter pole.

Would It Surprise You to Know That—

Twenty of the thirty-four gridders at Kansas University are six feet or more in height... Utah Aggies, Temple University, Iowa,
and Carnegie Tech have twin brothers on their squads... Pat Page, Indiana coach, uses Scandinavian calisthenic exercises daily in training
the Hoosier football squad... Merril Lardner, Detroit center, weighs as much as two other members of the varsity... And Temple
University has two guards who total 606 pounds... Purdue bought 23 miles of adhesive tape, 2,400 towels, and 2,000 bars
of soap at the start of the current football season... Twelve men of the California varsity played football at other
colleges... Lou Little’s Georgetown teams scored 1,265 points in four seasons—an average of 35 points a game... Bob Zupke, Illinois
coach, paints landscapes as a hobby... Dr. John J. Tigert, Florida University president, watches football practice every afternoon... Paul Stagg
is his dad’s chief prospect for the quarterback post at Chicago University... Bernard Crowl, center at Rutgers, has played in
every minute of every game for the past four years... Football costs the University of Washington $143,000 annually.

Florida Synod Votes To Support Davidson

President Walter L. Lingle, on returning from Ocala, Fla., where he attended a meeting of the synod of that state
as a representative of Davidson College, and spoke before it on behalf of the institution, was pleased with the synod’s
decisive vote to continue its support and ownership of Davidson College, rather than accept the overtures of South Carolina and
Georgia to support Presbyterian College in South Carolina.

“The question of continued relationship with Davidson College was the most interesting discussion before the Florida Synod,” Dr. Lingle explained.
“For a great many years, Presbyterians in Florida...have been in partnership with North Carolina Presbyterians in the ownership and control
of Davidson College. At this meeting, strong overtures were presented from the synods of South Carolina and Georgia asking the
Florida Synod to take part in the ownership of Presbyterian College. Representatives were sent by these synods to Florida to
urge their claims. “Of course, this would have meant the severance of Florida’s relationship to Davidson. After a complete discussion,
the synod, by a flattering vote, declined the overtures of the two petitioning states and decided to continue its long-established
relations with Davidson College. “This gives all the friends of Davidson great pleasure,” Dr. Lingle concluded.

“Loyalty” Theme Of Foster’s “Y” Addresses

Loyalty was the theme of Dr. John S. Foster’s talk at the “Y” vesper service, Sunday evening. Dr. Foster is
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, N. C., and has been recently elected Moderator of the Synod of
North Carolina. Fred Poag had charge of the service. Bill Ratchford and D. E. Yow led in prayer. Gene Dubose
sang a solo. Dr. Foster took as his text, John 13:13, “Ye call me Master and Lord: and ye say
well; for so I am.” When these men accepted Christ as their Master they rose to a higher level, said
Dr. Foster. His washing their feet was entirely in agreement with his lordship and teachings. Men admire loyalty in anyone
and scorn the lack of it. Today loyalty is the foundation of all our important institutions, Dr. Foster showed us.
The pathway of life depends on the decisions between the higher and lesser loyalties. War calls on men to show
their loyalty by great sacrifices. They must leave their homes and loved ones, go out to endure great hardships and
face all manner of dangers for their country. But Christ asks us to forego nothing really for our benefit and
further promises that all the lesser loyalties are to be found in Him. Then, 000 per season—$16,000 per week, which
is more than $2,000 per day or about $22 per minute... All members of the regular football eleven at Virginia
Polytechnic Institute are native-born Virginians—and of the entire squad only two are not sons of the Old Dominion... University of
Virginia has a line candidate on its squad who played for Hampden-Sydney in 1910, and who is now 38 years
old. AND—when the halfback marries there is still a likelihood that he will still carry the “bawl.”

“DRUGS” “PRESCRIPTIONS”

It is a pleasure for us to serve you—We are headquarters for Seal—Fraternity and all kinds of paper. Make our
store your store. White Drug Company “SODA” “SUNDRIES”

asked Dr. Foster, who could have done half as much to deserve our loyalty than Jesus when he gave his
life on the cross that we might be saved? All time is His gift to us. Have we no time
in our busy day for Him? We owe Him the loyalty of our hearts, to know Him, to love Him,
and to serve Him. Do we let our lesser selfish loyalties fill our days? Are we loyal to Jesus with
our words? Do we pray to Him and praise Him as much as we should? Do we always have a
word to speak to others for Him? Money is God’s gift to man. Are we loyal to Him in our
use of our possessions? In closing, Dr. Foster quoted Dr. Mann, the famous surgeon, as saying, “What this world needs
is an Emperor and his name is Jesus Christ.” How loyal are you to Him?

Senior’s Committee Selects New Blazer

At a meeting of the Senior Class last Wednesday morning after chapel, a committee with R.F. Jarratt as chairman was
chosen to select a blazer to be worn by the class this year. The following men were appointed to serve
on this committee: H. W. White, J. A. Haney, R. W. McDermid, and N. C. Hodgin. Last year the Senior
Class blazer was black trimmed in blue and this year the committee selected a dark blue one trimmed with a
white border. The class insignia which is composed of a white “30” encircled by a white ring, is on the
left breast of the blazer. The size and design of the blazer will be practically the same as last year.
Seniors may get their blazers now by placing their orders with the Student Store.

Davidson Students Aid In Duke Memorial Fund

The Student Body of Davidson agreed by an almost unanimous vote taken in chapel last Monday to pay fifty cents
apiece to raise its part of the fund for building a memorial to J. B. Duke. Carl Pritchett laid the
matter before the Assembly and R. M. Christian put it in the form of a motion, which was quickly passed.
A week or two ago Mr. Jackson mentioned in chapel that Davidson was asked to have a part in this
memorial. First it was decided to raise the amount by popular subscription but the plan mentioned above has been adopted
as the best. It will be an honor for the college to have a share in this movement. Davidson receives
$69,000 each year from the Duke Fund, and everyone should be glad to contribute this small sum as a token
of his appreciation. If anyone feels that he is unable to pay this amount, the matter can be adjusted by
consulting Mr. Jackson.

Petition To Shorten Classes Not Granted

The petition to shorten classes by ten minutes on Saturday, October 26, in order to allow students to attend the
Wake Forest game in Greensboro, failed to meet the approval of the Executive Committee at their meeting last Thursday and
was not granted. It is understood that the college has to make a report to the Southern Association of Colleges
in which is included the number of periods and the length of them. A certain amount of time is required,
and if too much is taken off the rating of the college is lowered. The answer of the Executive Committee
in part is: “The Executive Committee gave the student body the privilege of choosing either the Wake Forest or the
State game, with the understanding that college classes will be suspended on that one day for those who want to
attend the game. For others, classes will be held as usual. Absences of those who attend the game will count
as one of the three excused absences allowed each student before deduction in final grades is made.” At a vote
held in chapel Monday the majority voted to go to the State game in Raleigh. Another petition to have chapel
taken off the day of the Wake Forest game in order to give the students more time in which to
get there will be sent in to the Executive Committee to be acted upon at their next meeting.

Last Year’s Annual Wins Distinct Honor

“Quips and Cranks,” 1929 edition, was selected on its merits for use by the Carnegie Institute of Technology in the
Printing College. Fred J. Hartman, Director of Education for the United Typothetae, asked for this book and some of the
others on display at a recent printers’ convention. Such is the information received by Mr. F. M. Fleming, of The
Queen City Printing Company in response to his inquiry as to the condition under which one of his company’s displays,
the 1929 “Quips and Cranks,” was selected for use in the Printing College of Carnegie Tech. This is the second
distinct honor to come to a Davidson annual. It will be recalled that the 1926 yearbook was awarded a cup
for being the best annual in a college under twelve hundred students. V. R. Covington, of Raeford, N. C., edited
the ’29 annual and W. L. Dumas, of Talladega, Alabama, was the Business Manager. The printing job was done again
by The Queen City Printing Company, of Charlotte. This firm has done the work for several years.

FELLOWS! You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COMPANY MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND ICY PIES Mooresville, N. C.
CALL FOR IT AT STUDENT STORE

Just Arrived: A Complete New Line of Samples in Suiting and Top Materials You are Cordially Invited to Come In
and Look Them Over STETSON “D” STORE
