8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 26, 1929

ATHLETICS LOOK BEST TO DAVIDSON PROF. FOR COMING WORLD SERIES

Cubs Strongest at Second Base And in the Outfield

The following is the first of a series of sport articles written expressly for The Davidsonian by Prof. J. T.
Kimbrough of the college faculty. This week Professor Kimbrough compares the two competing teams in the coming world series, Athletics
and Cubs. Next week he will try to forecast the actual outcome of the series which starts October 4. Watch
for his article.

The heyday of the present baseball season has passed. The winners of both leagues are already definitely decided. Once again
the world’s series casts its long shadow over the fast ebbing major league season and for the first time in
fifteen years the Philadelphia Athletics and the Chicago Cubs meet in the spotlight of this annual classic, which is the
pinnacle of the sport season.

Never in the annals of the sport have two teams boasted such similar records in their respective circuits. At this
writing each of the leaders bids fair to pass the century mark in games won. That in itself might be
justly termed miraculous, certainly I would call it unique. A brief glance into current statistics reveals a close parallelism in
the team batting and team fielding percentages of the winners. Each has had its share of the so-called “breaks” of
the game, each has been handicapped by the loss of several stars at different stages of the race, both have
suffered “slumps” of varying degrees of duration—and yet, time and again each team has demonstrated its ability to “come back,”
displaying that vital quality styled “guts” that so readily distinguishes any champion. Thus, even the most biased fan must readily
admit that, on paper at least, the two pennant winners are well-matched. Therefore, any comparison between the two must necessarily
be based upon one’s individual opinion, regardless of one’s sentiment. So, the problem resolves into an analysis of the strength
and weakness of each separate team position.

At first base the Athletics have Jimmie Foxx, a youngster who has come along fast and who, in his second
year as a regular, appears destined to lead the American League in batting. He is fast, a good fielder, and
above all dependable. Charlie Grimm of the Cubs, generally considered the best fielding first-sacker in the majors, is not likely
to break into the coming series due to a recent injury. Tolson, a minor leaguer of much promise, who has
been substituting for Grimm, has yet to prove himself a “big leaguer.” Incidentally, Grimm’s loss is a bitter blow to
the Cubs and the Athletics have a decided edge at the initial sack.

At second base Rogers Hornsby of the Cubs has the call over Max Bishop by a wide margin. Always considered
the greatest right-hand hitter the game has ever produced, the Rajah is also one of the greatest fielders of all
time at his position. Sacrificing his own individual talents to team play has slightly marred his own record this season,
but as a compensation he has proved the main factor in transforming the Cubs into a pennant winner. I do
not wish to detract from Bishop’s ability—he’s a fine player who fits in well in the Athletic machine—but the all-around
superiority of Hornsby is entirely too obvious.

At third base Jimmie Dykes, the most versatile player in the game, has an edge over McMillan of the Cubs.
At various times this season Dykes has been called upon to fill most every position on the Athletic infield, and
he has proved a star in each different setting. He is a fine fielder, possessing one of the strongest throwing
arms in the league, and is a dangerous batter in a pinch. McMillan has had the unfortunate distinction of being
pointed out as the weakest spot in the Cub lineup—but in all fairness one must admit that his recent playing
deserves no such criticism. Who knows? Perhaps this player is destined to be a world’s series hero; assuredly he will
be giving his best efforts.

At shortstop the issue at hand is quite difficult to decide. On the one hand we find English of the
Cubs a greatly improved player over last year. Playing alongside the great Hornsby has transformed him from an apparently good
fielder into a decidedly brilliant one. To watch this youngster, day after day, is a vivid reminder of the time
of Charlie Hollocher, when as a Cub, he was the king of short fielders. On the other hand, Joe Boley
of the Athletics is one of the steadiest performers at his position. Both are rather light hitters, but each offsets
this not uncommon defect by his playing in the field. Youth versus age. Take your choice. I call it all
even.

The outfields of either team leave nothing to be desired. Both trios are noted for consistent and heavy hitting, for
fast and brilliant fielding and for accurate throwing. Wilson, of the Cubs, and Simmons, of the Athletics have been justly
mentioned as the most valuable players in their respective circuits. Cuyler and Stephenson excel in both hitting and fielding; Haas
and Miller are not so very far behind. All in all, the outer gardens of both teams will be well
patrolled—but I’m inclined to give the Cubs a narrow margin in all-around efficiency.

Philadelphia is indeed most fortunate, or perhaps I should say lucky, in having two great catchers—Cochrane and Perkins. Their ability
is so well known that it seems needless to comment on their greatness. Most experts are unanimous in naming Cochrane
as the peer of maskmen since the days of Johnny Kling. Perkins is a veteran who sits on the bench
only because it is his misfortune to be a teammate of Cochrane. Must I say more? On the contrary, Chicago
has been most unfortunate in the loss of Gabby Hartnett, their star backstop, this entire season. A big, brainy catcher,
a mighty hitter, capable of getting the last ounce of effort out of his pitchers—his is an irreparable loss. Zack
Taylor, acquired on waivers in mid-season, has done as well as Hartnett’s successor as could be expected. In all-around catching
ability he doesn’t measure up to Hartnett’s standard and as a batter there is no comparison. Barring injury Taylor should
handle the Cub mound corps in a most satisfactory manner, but his task of filling Hartnett’s shoes is an impossible
one. Gonzales, the second string catcher is only an average receiver. So, the Athletics’ catching staff merits marked superiority.

A famous manager once said: “A team is as strong as its pitching staff.” Pause and consider: Bush, Root, Blake,
Malone, Nehf, and Carlson of the Cubs; Grove, Rommell, Quinn, Earnshaw, Walberg, and Ehmke of the Athletics. By what criterion
may one judge the relative strength of such an array of pitching talent? Taken collectively each group has been very
effective during the present race. Each individual is a potential choice to pitch one or more games in the coming
series. Who will stand and who will crack under fire is open to conjecture. Personally, I believe that pitching will
be the dominant factor in the series with the hurlers who get the “breaks” winning.

In the final summation I present the Chicago Cubs, weak at first base, third base and behind the plate; and
the Philadelphia Athletics, with no perceptible weakness of any kind. Both teams are ably managed. But—I must maintain that Chicago’s
superiority at second base and in the outfield cannot offset the all-around greatness of the Mackmen.

NEW AUDITORIUM AID TO CHAPEL

Along with the new auditorium of Chambers, a great improvement over historical Shearer Hall, a change has been made in
conducting the chapel devotional exercises. This year the devotional exercises will be led by both faculty and students, being led
by each on alternating days of the week. The faculty, led by Dr. Lingle, will have charge on Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday, while the students will conduct the exercises on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. The new arrangement promises to build
up a better spirit of fellowship and understanding between faculty and students, and will aid in giving to the new
men an insight into the “inner life” of Davidson.

FRESH RECEPTION SPONSORED BY “Y”

On Monday night, September 16, the Freshman Class of Davidson College was entertained at a reception given at the instigation
of the Y. M. C. A. Members of the Senior Class were present, in accordance with the custom which characterizes
this annual freshman reception. The affair was staged in the banquet hall of Chambers Building, which was attractively arranged and
decorated for the occasion. The spacious room was lovely in the color scheme of red and black, college colors. In
the receiving line were members of the Davidson faculty and administration and their wives. Most of the members of the
class of 1933 attended and for the first time had the opportunity of meeting all of the faculty members. Over
an hour was necessary for the newcomers to pass down the receiving line, which contained between seventy-five and one hundred
people. Additional color was added to the occasion by the girls of the town, who assisted inthe serving. The Davidson
Orchestra under Charlie Orr’s direction contributed to the entertainment with popular music. No speeches were heard, this custom having been
adopted two years ago when the orientation program was adopted. Mrs. Fred W. Hengeveld supervised the work of arranging the
hall for the occasion and it was largely due to her splendid efforts that the reception was so successful.

PLACARDS SPUR CATS TO GREATER EFFORTS

Coach Monk Younger is not entirely satisfied with the fight that his band of Wildcats is exhibiting in practice. He
said that only a few of the men were trying their best, and that he was disappointed in the showing
of some of his players. This attitude was attributed partly to the hot weather of the early practice sessions, and
it was expected that with the coming of cool weather the men would snap out of it and display their
usual Wildcat fight. This belief has largely been verified this week, following the Elon game.

In order to combat this laziness and instill more fight in the squad, the walls of the dressing rooms have
been bedecked with placards. “Wildcats that are licked are Wildcats that are dead,” is one of them. Another, probably aimed
at the Army, is, “The bigger they are, the harder they fall.” One placed for the benefit of the “All-Americans”
reads “Give ’er the gun! If you give out, remember there’s a good man on the bench to take your
place.” The results of this campaign have been noticed by the increased spirit of the men on the field.

PINKNEY FIRST MAN AT UNI. OF COLORADO

Jim Pinkney, well-known end on Davidson College’s football team several years ago, has developed an even more remarkable reputation as
a track man at the University of Colorado, where he is studying law and is eligible for participation in athletics.
Pinkney ran the 440-yard run at Davidson while a student here, but his time seldom came under 52 seconds. This
spring he clipped off this distance in 48 9-10 seconds, while performing for the Colorado University. That’s fast time, for
the world’s record stands at 47.7 seconds for this distance.

When Pinkney finished his four years at Davidson in 1927, he was only 20 years old, and the moralists point
out that his case is similar to many other students, who enter Davidson at an early age—so early that they
do not fully develop while in college, and the height of their careers is lost through a three-year performance and
graduation.

STATIONERY FOUNTAIN PENS SUNDRIES
Victor, Brunswick and Columbia Records every week
W. S. HENDERSON
CANDIES SMOKES SODA

FRATERNITY BID DAY, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1

With Bid Day set for Tuesday, October 1, the fraternity groups of the campus are settling down to a feverish
last-minute “rush.” Since the opening days of school, the rushing game has been applied to the utmost, all fraternities using
the best means at their disposal to impress the new men. With eleven different groups in competition, it has been
a great strain both to freshmen and upperclassmen, and it is a foregone fact that studies have suffered. Hence, everybody
will hail the great day with delight, and after Tuesday the campus will settle down to a more normal state.

Regular “feeds” and “smokers” at the various chapter halls have been the order of the day, and, of course, the
same procession of freshmen and upperclassmen winds its way to the houses after each meal. During the past week, many
of the fraternities have trekked to Charlotte for the usual banquets at which active members and alumni vie with one
another in welcoming the prospects. The period of rushing has been a week longer this year than last, officially running
from September 12 to October 1. Bids will be issued on Monday night, the freshmen receiving them Tuesday morning. A
day of silence ensues, and Tuesday night the freshman goes to the house of his choice, after conference with representatives
of the several groups, in case there should be a conflict of bids.

INTERNATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY CONGRESS MEETS AT YALE

Dr. Hood and Other North Carolina College Professors Attend the Gathering

Dr. Fraser Hood, head of the psychology department at Davidson College, has recently returned from the Ninth International Congress of
Psychologists at Yale University, and declared that the “most marked feature of the session was a decided trend away from
the old-fashioned ‘mechanistic behaviorism.’” He said that psychologists were beginning to realize that their problems demand a deeper insight into
reality than behavioristic principles permit.

Dr. Hood estimated that 800 psychologists from Europe, Asia, and America attended the gathering, which held its meetings for the
first time on American soil. French, German, and English were the three languages universally spoken, though the great psychologist, Prof.
Pavlov, of Leningrad, spoke in Russian, which had to be translated. Dr. Hood made the interesting observation that the German
contingent was more familiar with the English language than the French delegation.

The Davidson professor contended that the most widely known speaker was Prof. Pavlov, who is an authority on and discoverer
of the conditioned reflex. He was impressed by the litheness and alertness of this 80-year-old man, who would easily pass
for one of 60 years of age, he said. Among other North Carolinians attending the conference were Dr. William McDougall
and Dr. F. Zene, of Duke University; Dr. Frederick Dashiell, Dr. M. R. Trabue, and Dr. F. E. Crane, of
the University of North Carolina; and Dr. J. A. Highsmith, of North Carolina College for Women.

JUNIOR ASSISTANTS TO HEEFNER CHOSEN

(Continued from page 1)

these men, instructing them in the principles, and leaving much to their native ability. These two assistants will be voted
upon by the student body, to see who will be the cheerleader for the year 1930-31. This election takes place
in the spring, during the regular student body elections.

LOCAL THEATER OFFERS BIG BILL

The Davidson Theater is offering “improved sound” these days, according to the Brothers Stough, and the lineup of coming attractions
is one to stir the pocketbooks of most students. Most of the pictures are all-talking or have talking sequences. Synchronized
musical scores come with all. No more is the patron forced to listen to “Kiss Me Again” while Tom Mix
shoots up twelve or fifteen bandits.

Bessie Love and Raymond Hackett team up in “The Girl in the Show,” the feature for today. This is an
all-talking Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer production. Friday is a Pathe feature with Ann Harding and Frederick March entitled “Paris Bound.” Miss Harding is
billed as the girl with the million-dollar speaking voice, and March is well remembered for his fine work in Clara
Bow’s opus, “The Wild Party.” Saturday brings an old favorite, Jack Holt in Columbia’s production of “Hurricane,” a racy melodrama.
George O’Brien in Fox’s “Salute,” John Gilbert in another nocturnal effort, “His Glorious Night,” and Fox’s Broadway hit “The Cock-Eyed
World” with Victor MacLaglen, Edmund Lowe, and Lily Damita are some of the stellar pictures booked for the near future.

ALUMNI MARRIAGES

(Continued from Page Five)

At home: Myelvaron Hotel, Tampa, Fla.
1925—Rev. Leonard Burns Gibbs to Miss Ruth Lee Terry, of Easley, S. C. At home: Tiger, Ga.
—Caldwell Pharr Johnston to Miss Margaret Dixon Sikes, of Monroe, N. C. 19 S. College St., Charlotte, N. C.
—Kenneth Shepard McAlpin to Miss Lera Shelton Hobbs, of Davidson, N. C., Care Atlantic National Bank, Jacksonville, Fla.
1926—Charles Louis Bragaw to Miss Jean Terrell, of Charlottesville, Va. At home: 2308 Ashmead Place, N. W. Washington, D. C.
—Wilson Howell Crane to Miss Jan George, of Charlotte. At home: 715 W. Trade St., Charlotte, N. C.
—Hugh Nicholson Dellinger to Miss Frances Marion Turner, of Chester, S. C. At home: 136 W. Chestnut St., Asheville, N.
C.
—Knox Johnstone to Miss Carrol Smith, of Washington, D. C. At home: Mocksville, N. C.
—Charles Kimball Marshall, Jr., to Miss Catherine Holt Cox, of Raleigh. Care Editorial Staff, Baltimore Sun, Baltimore, Md.
—Archie Brown Williford to Miss Ruth Williams Vaughan, of Cartersville, Ga. Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.
1927—Walter Stewart Gordon to Miss Ellen Stone, of Columbia, S. C. At home: 306 Hylan Ave., Hamlet, N. C.
—Wade Hampton Leggette to Miss Jessie Irene McPhaul, of Red Springs. Care High School, Winston-Salem, N. C.
—William Robinson Sparrow to Miss Clara Baity, of Harmony, N. C. At home: Gastonia, N. C.
1928—Cornelius Oliver Cathey to Miss Beulah Mae Proctor, of Cornelius. Care Rutherford College, Connelly Springs, N. C.
—Lynn B. McClain to Miss Margaret Bradley, of Sweetwater, Tenn. At home: 4429 Lowell St., N. W., Washington, D. C.
—Harry Frederick Peterson to Miss Mary Lord Little, of Atlanta, Ga. Care Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Ga.
1929—Calvin Brice Baird to Miss Mary Smith, of Union, S. C. Care American Trust Co., Charlotte, N. C.
—Mark Draper Dunlop to Miss Bernice McAuley, of Gotebo, Okla. At home: Gotebo, Okla.
—Robert Marion Gant to Miss Elizabeth Darling, of Greensboro. At home: 706 N. Green St., Greensboro, N. C.

MOORESVILLE ICE CREAM COMPANY
MANUFACTURERS OF “DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
BRICK AND FANCY CREAMS AND ICY PIES
Mooresville, N. C.
CALL FOR IT AT STUDENT STORE
