THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1929

Weekly Broadcast Over Station WBT Which Will Be Known as “Davidson College Hour,” Might Be Arranged

Radio Officials in Charlotte Have Offered a Period from 7 to 8 o’Clock Each Monday Evening

PRESENTED TO FACULTY

Davidson Alumni Would Form Habit of Tuning in on Alma Mater Program

From present indications, Davidson College alumni will have an opportunity to hear a weekly broadcast, according to Ernest Milton, alumni
secretary, who received a letter Monday from officials of Station WBT offering the institution a regular time for broadcasting on
Monday evenings. This offer was made following the Home-Coming program presented over Station WBT on Thursday, November 14. The secretary
wrote officials at the studio, thanking them for the courtesy extended Davidson in making possible the Home-Coming broadcast, and at
the same time he made overtures for a permanent broadcasting time, if agreeable with authorities. The following letter was received
in reply:

Charlotte, N. C., November 25, 1929,

Mr. Ernest Milton, Alumni Secretary, Davidson, N. C.

Dear Mr. Milton:

Answering yours of the 22nd, please be advised that we have open from 7:00 until 8:00 Monday evenings and if
you could arrange to have the Davidson orchestra and glee club broadcast during one of these periods, we shall be
glad to assign them this time. Please confirm one or more of these dates.

Yours very truly,

STATION WBT, INC.

Donald O’Connor, Program Director.

In a telephone conversation with Mr. O'Connor Monday he stated that he would like for Davidson to take the entire
hour between 7 and 8 o'clock, to be known as the “Davidson College Hour” and to continue for an indefinite
period of time. He expressed the opinion that this would be possible for at least the next six months. Continuation
of this, of course, would be dependent upon whether the station had reason to use this hour for other purposes.

The matter was presented to Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson Monday morning, who, in turn, intended to discuss
it in the faculty meeting Monday afternoon. At the time that the copy of “The Davidsonian” went to press, the
meeting had not been held, but the Davidson president expressed a personal interest in the possibilities, and thought that it
was a splendid opportunity for Davidson to be on the air at certain and specified times.

Should the arrangements be completed for this weekly broadcast, the Davidson alumni throughout the United States would be notified of
this fact, and it is firmly believed that they would sincerely appreciate hearing musical numbers from their Alma Mater each
week. It would become a natural thing for the alumni to tune in on this powerful station weekly, and would
be an advertising medium not ordinarily opened to Davidson College.

Births

Harry Sloan Caldwell, ’14, and Mrs. Caldwell, of Davidson, announce the birth of a son, John Thomas, on November 11.

Rev. M. C. Yeargan, '26, and Mrs. Yeargan, of Anson, Texas, announce the birth of a daughter, Cecilia, on November
10.

Davidson-Coached Teams to Play Here December

Dick Flinn, ’29, and Ralph McMillan, ’26, Will Pit Elevens Against Each Other

Two football teams, both coached by Davidson College alumni, will play on Richardson Field at Davidson College Friday afternoon, December
6th. R. O. (Dick) Flinn, graduate in the class of 1929, is going to bring his Lees-McRae College football team
to battle with the Barium Springs eleven, coached by Ralph McMillan, 1926 graduate. Both of the squads will have on
them future Davidson Wildcat players, and because of the fact that they are tutored by Davidson graduates considerable interest will
be shown in the contest.

Football at Lees-McRae is comparatively recent, but the boys who have been candidates for the eleven have quickly adapted themselves
to the game. The team has broken even in games this season, having played Boone High, Lenoir, Crossnore, Mountain City,
Elizabethton and Weaver College. They held the latter institution to a 13 to 0 score, and it may be added
that Weaver College has not lost an encounter in three years. Barium Springs has an outstanding record for the season
which is fast drawing to a close, and is placing onthe field one of the best teams in its history.
The recent triumph at Davidson over Belmont Abbey, 19 to 0, indicated the powerful strength of this fighting aggregation, and
when they meet the Lees-McRae boys, they will come in contact with a team that has instilled into them the
same idea of a fighting spirit that permeates the Davidson campus. Davidson-coached teams during the past several years have been
prominent in North Carolina circles. It is recalled that C. R. (Pat) Crawford, ’23, put out a championship team in
Gastonia several years ago, and that the two teams in the state high school finals last fall were tutored by
Davidson alumni—Wilmington by R. L. Black, ’22, and Statesville by J. W. DeArmon, ’24.

Engagements

Ross-Roseberry
L. B. Ross, of Charlotte, announces the engagement of his daughter, Margaret Elizabeth, to Horace Howell Roseberry, of Baltimore, Md.,
the marriage to take place on Thursday, December 21. Mr. Roseberry graduated from Davidson in the class of 1926, and
for one year was connected with the Davidson faculty as an instructor. He is now located in Baltimore, studying and
teaching at the University of Maryland. He obtained his master of arts degree from Davidson while instructing here, and is
now working on his Ph.D. degree in physics.

Murphy-McQueen
Mrs. John Alexander Murphy, Sr., of Atkinson, N. C., announces the engagement of her daughter, Mary Rebecca, to Malcolm McInnis
McQueen, of Fayetteville, the marriage to take place on Saturday, November 30. Mr. McQueen was in the class of 1927
at Davidson, and came here from White Oak, N. C. He has been located in business in Fayetteville for some
time, and after the marriage Mr. and Mrs. McQueen will reside in that city.

Alumni Marriages

Currie-Kennedy
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Clyde Kennedy, of Raleigh, announce the marriage of their sister, Miss Ernest McArthur Currie, of Charlotte,
on Tuesday, November 19, the ceremony taking place in Washington, D. C. Mrs. Currie received her education at Mitchell College
and at N. C. C. W., and was connected with the courts in Mecklenburg county. Judge Currie is in the
class of 1916, and left Davidson to serve in the United States army during the war. He has studied at
the University of Paris and the University of North Carolina. At present he is judge of the city court in
Charlotte. Judge and Mrs. Currie will be at home at the Guthery Apartments, Charlotte, after December 10.

Brice-Weekley
Mr. and Mrs. John Weekley, of Atmore, Ala., announce the marriage of their daughter, Lillian Ruth, to Samuel Douglass Brice,
of Selma, Ala., on Wednesday, November 20. Mr. Brice graduated from Davidson in the class of 1924, and for some
time has been connected with the Selma National Bank, Selma, Ala. Mr. and Mrs. Brice are at home at 501
Church St., Selma, Ala.

Laws-Harper
Mrs. Emmett Harper, of Birmingham, Ala., announces the marriage of her daughter, Loudelle, to John Dickinson Laws, of Columbus, Miss.,
on Monday, November 18. Mr. Laws graduated from Davidson in the class of 1925, and for some time was connected
with the Addressograph Company, with headquarters in Birmingham. At his father’s death he went to Columbus to take over the
business, and Mr. and Mrs. Laws are now at home in that Mississippi city.

STOP that COLD and COUGH
take Coidex
The "QUICK RELIEF" Cold Remedy for College Students, sold by a College Student
YOUR DRUGGIST HAS COIDEX
Jim Galloway U. of S.C.

HAIRCUT? WE GIVE PROMPT AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

TIME OUT FOR A CAMEL
Make Camels your daily punctuation marks and dot your day with pleasure. Each new thing accomplished deserves a celebration, a
little interlude of cool fragrance and rich aroma. When you feel the urge for a touch of genuine pleasure, call
"time out" on yourself—and have a Camel! There’s an extra measure of pleasure in Camels... because the choicest tobaccos grown
are blended with expert care... because they are cool and refreshing... mild and mellow... and they never tire your taste
nor leave an unpleasant after-taste.
© 1929, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
