THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 17, 1929

Faculty Directory
(Note: Below is corrected Directory as issued from the Treasurer’s Office this week.)

1. Arbuckle, H. B.—Phone 47-J; office, Chemistry laboratory, residence, Concord Street.
2. Beaty, E. A.—Phone 190; office 2-A Chambers, residence, Concord St.
3. Brown, C. K.—Phone 112; office, 221 Chambers, residence, Dr. Hood’s home, Concord St.
4. Cullum, E. J.—Phone 2-J; office, 125 Chambers, residence, Concord St.
5. Cumming, W. P.—Phone 181; office 2-B, Chambers, residence, Concord St.
6. Currie, Archibald—Phone 129; office 216 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.
7. Davis, J. H.—Phone 17-W; office 321, Chambers, residence, home of Mrs. N. T. Smith.
8. Douglas, J. L.—Phone 132; office 204, Chambers, residence, Concord St.
9. Douglas, J. M.—No phone; office, 136 Chambers, residence Concord St.
10. Erwin, E. J.—Phone 128; office 116 Chambers, residence, Faculty Heights.
11. Elkins, J. W.—Phone 128; office, Armory, residence, N. Main St.
12. Fleagle, F. K.—Phone 114; office 303 Chambers, residence, Sloan St.
13. Foreman, K. J.—Phone 66-W; office 373 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.
14. Fulcher, H. E.—Phone 49-W; office, 127 Chambers, residence, Concord St.
15. Grey, W. R.—Phone 62; office 202 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.
16. Goldiere, A. V.—Phone 17-W; office, 303 Chambers, residence, home of Mrs. N. T. Smith.
17. Harding, C. R.—Phone 68-J; office, 101 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.
18. Henderson, L. B.—Phone 159; office, 103 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.
19. Hengeveld, F. W.—Phone 146; office, 116 Chambers, residence, Concord St.
20. Hobart, F. D.—Phone 19; residence, S. Main St.
21. Hood, Frazer—Phone 112; office, 235 Chambers, residence, Concord St.
22. Kimbrough, J. T.—Office, 103 Chambers.
23. Jackson, F. L.—Phone 55; office, 103 Chambers, residence, Concord St.
24. Lilly, H. T.—Phone 123; office, 317 Chambers, residence, home of J. W. McConnell.
25. Lingle, T. W.—Phone 125; office, 217 Chambers, residence, Concord St.
26. Lingle, Walter L.—Phone 94; office, Chambers, residence, N. Main St.
27. Lyon, S. C.—Phone 187; office 344 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.
28. McConnell, J. M.—Phone 6; office, 113 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.
29. McConnell, J. W.—Phone 123; office, Infirmary, residence, South St.
30. Mebane, W. N.—Phone 134-J; office, 309 Chambers, residence, Concord St.
31. McGill, M. W.—Phone 85; office, 107 Chambers, residence, Concord St.
32. Otto, J. A.—Phone 167; office, Armory, residence, South St.
33. Porter, W. L.—Phone 197; office, 143 Chambers, residence, Faculty Heights.
34. Pritchett, N. G.—Phone 163; office, 143 Chambers, residence, S. Main St.
35. Richards, C. M.—Phone 57; office, 202 Chambers, residence, Concord St.
36. Scott, W. R.—Phone 156; office Armory, residence, N. Main St.
37. Sentelle, M. E.—Office phone 102, no residence phone; office, 111 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.
38. Shewmake, E. F.—Phone 139; office, 317 Chambers, residence, Concord St.
39. Schenck, L. B.—Office, 219 Chambers.
40. Theis, O. J.—Phone 161; office, 317 Chambers, residence, Woodland St.
41. Truesdale, J.—Office, 101 Chambers.
42. Vowles, G. R.—Phone 162; office, 317 Chambers, residence, Faculty Heights.
43. Weaver, W. R.—Office, 303 Chambers.
44. Williams, J. P.—Phone 170; office, 108 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.
45. Wood, W. W.—Phone 151; office, 207 Chambers, residence, N. Main St.

“Doctor: ‘And remember, you'll have to eat plain food and not stay out late at night.’ Patient: ‘Yes, that is what I've been thinking ever since I received your bill.’”

Davidson-Army Game Play-by-Play

At 2:15 the Davidson team came on the field in single file and went through some formations. Captain Brock practised drop-kicking from the thirty yard line. The Davidson cheer leader, Heefner, had gone to work, and the three hundred alumni answered him with a will. The captains are meeting in the center of the field to toss the coin. Davidson won the toss and chose the South goal. Brock kicks low to Murrell who allows the ball to go over the goal line. Army bring it out to the twenty yard line and high kick is downed by Cagle on the Army 32 yard line. Davidson first and ten. King smashes off right tackle for 4 yards, downed by Murrell. Fraley gains a yard at center tackled by Price. A pass by Brock failed. Fourth down and five to go. King made five yards on a criss-cross but not allowed because the referee had blown his whistle. Army’s ball on downs. Murrell kicks to Army’s 47 yard line where the ball was downed by Humber. Davidson first and ten. King forced out of bounds without gaining an inch. McCall tried a smash at center but O’Keefe stopped him. A pass Fraley to King was incomplete. Brock kicked out of bounds on Army’s five yard line. Murrell kicks to McCall who was downed by Price on the Army thirty yard line. A smash at center by McCall netted two yards. McCall gained two more yards on a wide sweep around left end. A pass by Fraley was knocked down by Malloy. Another pass by Brock to King was knocked down by Cagle. A quick kick by Cagle was downed by Cartmark on Davidson thirty-three yard line. McCall gained nothing at center. King smashed between center and right guard for five yards and was stopped by Miller. Brock kicked to Bowman who returned it ten yards. Downed by Mason on Army forty yard line, Cagle made five yards but Davidson was offside. A pass, Cagle to Bowman, was fumbled and recovered by Mathis. Parrish around right end for nine yards. Fraley took the ball to Army's forty-one yard line for first down. King fumbled when tackled by Murrell. Murrell off left tackle for nine yards. Cagle zigzags to Davidson's eighteen yard line where downed by King. O'Keefe lost a yard on a trick end run. Cagle around right end for seven yards. Murrell gained a yard at center but was stopped by Mason. O'Keefe dropped a kick over the goal posts for the first score. Army 3, Davidson 0. O'Keefe kicked to Parrish who fumbled, recovered, and to his 42 yard line. Gibner replaced Bowman. King lost two yards on a wide sweep around left end. Messinger in for Malloy, Cartmark stopped King after making a yard off tackle. Brock kicked to Gibner who was downed in his tracks by Brown on the twenty-yard line. End of quarter: Army 3, Davidson 0. Cagle got five yards at center but was called back because of starting too soon. Murrell kicked to McCall who was downed by Messinger on his own 39 yard line. Hillberg for Cartmark. Lazar for Miller, Spangler for Perry; Suarz for Hillberg, McLean for Humber. Fraley tried an end play and Army was penalized 15 yards for holding. Stuart for Cagle. King around end for five yards. McCall made a wide sweep around the other side going to Army 38 yard line. Fraley smashed through center for three yards, tackled by Price. McCall fumbled after making a yard. Fraley tried a pass but it was incomplete. Brock passed to King for thirty yards, and King raced across the goal line. The placement was good by Brock. Davidson 7, Army 3. Fletcher for Messinger. Game halted while McCall had a new jersey put on. Brock kicked to Army nine yard line where Murrell returned it to the twenty-five yard line before being stopped by Mason. McCall threw Stuart for a five yard loss. Stuart smeared by Covington after gaining three yards. Murrell kicked to McCall on the thirty yard line where he was downed by Hillberg. McCall made one yard on a fake kick. Mutchins for Stuart. King got a yard around left end. Green for Murrell. Milton for Raker. A pass, Fraley to McCall was good, McCall being stopped on Army 36 yard line. Another pass by Fraley was knocked down by Hill-berg. One yard was added. Brohard, starting fast, made eight yards. On the next play, Brohard took the ball to Army’s 19-yard line. Crabb for Hillberg. Bradshaw for Brohard. Fulton replaced Price. M. Bradshaw went in for King. McCall failed to gain at center. A pass by Fraley was grounded. A pass by Bradshaw was intercepted by McLean. Pass by Hutchinson was incomplete. Hutchinson went around right end for 11 yards. Hutchinson kicked to Davidson's 37-yard line. M. Bradshaw gained a yard at center. Proctor for Brown, Mills for Decamp, Parker for Mathis. Brock punted to Gibner, who was forced out of bounds by M. Bradshaw on Army’s 32-yard line. Hutchinson tried a long pass to Crabb, but it was incomplete. McConnell for Mason. McConnell blocked Hutchinson’s pass to Green. Army penalized five yards. Hutchinson made five yards at end, tackled by Proctor. Hutchinson kicked to McCall as the half ended.

Lineups of both teams are the same as started the game. Davidson protects the south goal. Brock kicks to Murrell, who was down on Army's twenty-five-yard line. Cagle around left end for no gain. W. Bradshaw in for Brohard. Army penalized fifteen yards. Murrell kicked to King on the forty-yard line. King swept around left end to Army’s twenty-yard line. King gained a yard. Bradshaw failed to gain. Fraley’s pass was incomplete, but Army was offside. Fraley passed again, but it was no good. Brock passed to McCall, who made it first down. Davidson penalized fifteen yards for holding. A pass from Fraley to Brown was incomplete, just rolling out of Brown's hands. Bradshaw made ten yards. A pass from Brock to McCall was incomplete. Davidson penalized five yards. Brock tried a field goal, but it failed. Ball in play on Army's twenty-five-yard line. Cagle got five yards. Murrell made it first down. Cagle was stopped by King after making two more yards. Cagle missed first down on the next play by inches. Murrell carried the ball to Davidson's 40-yard line. Cagle gained two more yards. Cagle passed to O'Keefe, who was stopped on the 11-yard line. Murrell smashed to the six-yard line, being stopped by King and McCall. Cagle went to the goal line through center. Murrell carried it over for a touchdown. O'Keefe made the extra point by placement. Army 10, Davidson 7.

Brock kicked out of bounds on the Army 37-yard line. O'Keefe made seven yards on a fake kick. Cagle passed to Murrell, who was run out of bounds on the Davidson 27-yard line. Parrish replaced Bradshaw. Cagle passed to Fletcher for nine yards. Murrell went to Davidson’s nine-yard line. Cagle swept around right end for a touchdown, and he dropkicked for the extra point; it was no good. Army 16, Davidson 7. O'Keefe kicked to Brock, who was run out of bounds on the thirty-five-yard line. Faking a pass, McCall made ten yards. King around right end for two yards. Murrell stopped him. Brock kicked to Bowman, out of bounds on the 37-yard line. Murrell got five yards off left tackle, being stopped by McCall. Cagle’s pass was no good. Cagle made five yards, but Army was penalized fifteen yards. Murrell kicked, and the ball was downed by Cartmark on Davidson's 47-yard line. Lazar stopped McCall at center for no gain. End of quarter.

A pass by Brock was intercepted by Cagle. Cagle tried a wild forward pass. Davidson penalized five yards. Cagle, seeing his path blocked, reversed his field and passed a long one to Fletcher, who muffed it. Murrell faked a pass and went to Davidson’s 32-yard line. Cagle’s pass was incomplete. King stopped Murrell after making two at center. Marshall tackle. Stuart replaced Cagle. Stuart swept around left end for a touchdown. O'Keefe added the extra point by placement. Army 23, Davidson 7. O'Keefe kicked over the goal line, and it was brought out to the 20-yard line. Bunker for Lazar, Bell for Bowman, Golden in for Murrell. McCall gained two yards at center and was tackled by O’Keefe. Brock’s kick went outside on Davidson's 37-yard line. Hillberg for Cartmark. Price for Hillberg. Fulton for Humber. Suarez for Price. Blakely for O'Keefe. A pass by Stuart was incomplete. Bradshaw for Parrish. Golden got five yards at tackle, downed by Decamp. Golden kicked over the goal line. Hutchinson for Stuart, Green for Golden, Spengler for Perry. McCall around right end for five yards. King failed to gain at center. Brock kicked to Bell on the 40-yard line, where he ran it back seven yards. Brown stopped him. Green went to the thirty-yard line. King got him. Mills for Raker. Hutchinson got three yards, tackled by Mills. Green gained five on the same play, Mason stopping him. Carver for Green. Hutchinson got a yard at center. Piper for Blakely. Stecker for Hutchinson. Gibner for Bell. Davidson held for downs, the ball going over on her fifteen-yard line. Maxwell for Price. Bradshaw failed at center. King made five at center. Parham for Fulton. Brock kicked to Gibner, who fumbled but recovered on Army's 49-yard line. Crabb for Hillberg. Stecker got a yard. Army penalized fifteen yards for holding on the next play. Stecker made fifteen yards, but Army was offside. Davidson took the ball on downs on the thirty-six-yard line. A pass from Fraley to Brock netted nine yards. Proctor replaced Brown. Pass by Fraley grounded. Pass from Brock to Bradshaw was incomplete. Penalized five yards. Brock kicked over the goal line. Carver made five yards on a spinner play. Baker for Mason, Christian for Parrish, Dempsey for Gibner. Carver made two yards. Carver forced out of bounds. Messinger for Marshall. Stecker made two yards off left tackle. Carver kicked out of bounds on Army's 49-yard line. Parker for Decamp. Brock’s pass was wild. Gordon for Spengler. A long pass from Brock to Christian was good, carrying the ball to Army's 28-yard line. Brock’s pass intercepted by Carver, who was tackled by Christian as the game ended. Score: Army, 23; Davidson, 7.

Stranger: “What is your line?”
Bootlegger: “I’m in the public utility game.”
Stranger: “How’s that?”
Bootlegger: “Oh, I help to keep the public lit up.”

Musical Aspirant: “Professor, do you think I'll ever be able to do anything with my voice?”
The Expert: “Well, it might come in handy in case of shipwreck.”

STUDENTS, ATTENTION!
For self-supporting students desiring fascinating, remunerative work, either temporary or permanent, may I suggest that many students of both sexes have earned scholarships and cash sufficient to defray all college expenses, representing national magazine publishers. If interested, write or wire for details—M. A. Steele, National Organizer, 5 Columbus Circle, New York, N. Y.

You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station, DAVIDSON, N. C.

“VOILA!” A stiff exam, a round o’ gym, Demand your vigor, verve, and vim; Ambitious students must keep in trim: Eat LANCE’S foods—get in the swim: “Excel, sir!”

CHARLOTTE, SEE AND HEAR The New VICTOR MICRO-SYNCHRONOUS RADIO AND RADIOLA See Them At PARKER GARDNER CO. 16 West Trade St. Victor & Brunswick Records, Furniture, and Draperies