~ March 14, 1929. Reed THE DAVIDSONIAN ~ Page Five

SIX BASKETEERS WIN LETTERS

CAT TRAX
As They Follow the Red and Black
By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Crown ’em and admit. Those Red Terrors certainly came through with a big bang. Now they’re back having their pictures
snapped with Governor Gardner and so on, and everybody is happy. It was almost a Carolina Tournament. We are sort
of sorry the Blue Devils couldn’t win, since Davidson had put it on the Durham lads earlier in the season,
but our heartiest congratulations go out to Coach Gus Tebell and every man on the Wolfpack team.

Thoughts of most young men around here are swiftly turning to baseball now. The Wildcats are beginning to look like
a ball club. If they just get those eyes on the ball you are going to see a dangerous nine
take the field against the Oak Ridge Cadets next Friday. It will mean a lot to grab off this first
one. Help the team get that winning spirit.

The infield presents a big problem to Younger. Looks like Littlejohn has short sewed up, and Crawford is fairly certain
to hold down the initial sack. The other two positions are debatable though. Bill Marks may get the hot corner,
while Jim Procter and Bill Goodson fight it out for the keystone. Procter, especially, is a hard hitter, and it
will be hard to keep him off the first string.

Nab Armfield and “Happy” Gladstone are having a real scrap for the job back of the plate. Gladstone made most
of the trips last year, and boasts some experience, while it is Armfield’s first crack at the varsity. Nab smacked
’em out on the rat nine last spring and showed a pretty good arm. He should go good this time.

We hope the frosh can get together and show a capable team. “Tex's” call will bring them running to the
lower field, and the student body will wait anxiously to pass judgment on the new diamond men. Can’t get too
much material on hand, because men are always dropping out, and we land up with less than we thought. It’s
a mighty good feeling to know that a strong freshman team is coming up to reinforce the varsity.

How about the new requirement of fifteen points to win a track letter? Means lots harder work and fewer letters,
but it may mean better teams. The Wildcats are something of an enigma on the cinders this spring. Excellent material
for the short runs and fair prospects in the field events, but those long runs are likely to prove cause
for downfall again.

Over at Carolina they are bemoaning the loss of Galen Elliot and Hoyt Pritchett, premier distance runners of the South.
We are pretty sure that the Tar Heels won't be lacking much in the track line when the first gun
barks. They've got too much material out over there not to put out a cracking good squad. Same is true
at Duke. State usually rates along with Davidson while Wake Forest tags along the rear.

Tennis players begin to show interest in the game these warm balmy afternoons. With three letter men back, and the
sophomore hopes, Davidson should have another good year. It’s seldom that the Wildcat Tennis Team isn’t a whang.

In twenty-four hours, it is said, one silkworm will produce material for a woman’s complete outfit. Silkworms, we fear, are
getting lazier and lazier, says the Springfield Union.

A class was asked in a Sunday School examination to give the meaning of the word “Selah.” For a while
no answer was forthcoming. Then a small boy diffidently held up his hand. “Well?” said the examiner, hopefully. “Please, sir,”
said the lad, “that’s what David used to say whenever he broke one of the strings on his harp!” —London
Post.

VARSITY LETTERS ISSUED TO SIX OF BASKETBALL TEAM
Pritchett, Johnson, Rusk, Calhoun, Goodson and Crawford Get Letters

It was recently announced that the following men were to be awarded the Varsity “D” for service on the Basketball
team throughout the last season. Carl Pritchett, ’30, Captain, of Reidsville, N. C., received his second letter in Basketball. Pritchett
made a numeral his Freshman year and varsity letter last year. F. W. Johnson, ’30, Captain-elect, of Jefferson, Ga., received
his first letter in Basketball this season. He is a member of the “D” Club, being a letter man in
Tennis from last year. Dean Rusk, '30, of Atlanta, Ga., received his letter in his first year of service on
the varsity. He made his numeral in fresh Basketball last year. R. G. Calhoun, '29, of Laurinburg, made his second
letter in Basketball. He is also a letter man in Varsity Track. W. B. Goodson, '31, of Lincolnton, made his
first “D” this season. He made his fresh numeral last year. M. L. (Pat) Crawford, '29, of Gastonia, received a
service letter rendered for consistent work during the past three seasons. Crawford is also a letter man in Baseball.

Seniors Win Volley Ball Championship
Sophs Defeated in Final Game to Give Seniors Title

After three big days of volleyball last week the Seniors clinched the intramural volleyball championship by a win from the
Sophomores. The game, which was first introduced at Davidson last fall, is played by two teams of six men each
on a regulation size court. The necessary equipment consists of a ball, somewhat similar to a basketball, and a net
strung across the court like a tennis net. The teams arrange themselves on each side of the court and one
man serves the ball by striking it sharply with his hand. The object is for each team to return the
ball every time it comes across the net without allowing it to touch the ground. Games of fifteen points each
were played; one team being declared the winner upon capturing two out of three games.

The Seniors defeated teams from all three of the under classes to win first place in the tournament. Among those
starring for the Seniors may be mentioned Gilmour and Robbins whose work was outstanding. The Sophomores took second place in
the tournament by winning from the Juniors and Freshmen and losing to the Seniors. Munroe, Pridgen, and Williams were the
stars for the Sophs. The Freshmen were unable to cop a single, losing a fast one to the Juniors in
their final match.

SUMMARY
Won Lost
Seniors 3 0
Sophs 2 1
Juniors 1 2
Freshmen 0 3

KITTENS BEGIN DIAMOND WORK
Fresh Turn Out For First Practice of Season

On Monday, March 11th, the first Fresh baseball practice was held. The afternoon was devoted mainly to practice in batting,
knocking out flies, etc. Very little infield practice was carried on. About twenty or thirty men were out, but not
in uniform. Twenty-four signed up for their first and second choices of positions, seven signing up for pitching and six
for catching. A few men are as yet unable to be out on account of Spring Football practice. It is
almost impossible to judge this early in theSeason just what the prospects are. A few men, however, showed signs of
good form. Professors Blythe and Kimbrough are temporarily carrying on the coaching until Coach Tilson or Coach Miles takes charge
within a few weeks. Twelve-year-old Marjorie had been reading about Egypt. “Do you know what the oldest flower in the
world is?” asked her mother, thinking the answer would be the lotus. Marjorie thoughtfully responded, “I suppose it would have
to be the apple blossom!”—Children.

Varsity Nine Begins Training In Earnest
Wildcats to be Especially Strong in Hurlers for Coming Season

Monk Younger is rapidly rounding into shape his 1929 baseball team for their initial tilt with the Oak Ridge Institute
Cadets on March 22. The menu for the last few days has consisted of bunting, sliding, and hitting drills for
the candidates, but Coach Younger announces that some real baseball is on deck for the players within the next few
days. The annual high school track meet, here on the twenty-third, limits the Wildcats and the Cadets to one game
in place of the annual two-tilt series between the two nines.

During the past week, the Wildcat diamond candidates were sent through such rapid paces that the outline of the team
is fast beginning to take form. Armfield and Bradstone are the best bets for catcher at present. DeCamp, substitute backstop
on last year’s nine, has given up his diamond activities in favor of tennis. The Davidson nine will be exceptionally
strong on hurlers this year. Meadows and McInnis of last year’s pitching staff and “Buck” Marrow from the Freshman outfit
have all shown rare form in early season drills. Thompson, the only left-handed twirler on the squad, has not been
in the proper condition because of an arm injury, while J. R. Marks has been so far unable to develop
much control due to a hurt finger. Crawford will most likely hold down first base with Goodson, first baseman from
last year's frosh outfit, shifted to the keystone bag to replace Proctor whose services will be seen in right field
this year. Littlejohn has been working in snappy form at shortstop while S. C. Marks looks good for the team’s
third baseman. Hal Johnson's center field berth will be occupied by Captain Ratchford with “Whiz” Miller handling flies in the
left field position vacated by Ratchford.

Rude home!
Listener: “Shut up and go away! I wouldn't vote for you—I’d rather vote for the devil.”
Polite Candidate: “All right, but suppose your friend isn’t running.” —Farm Journal.

INITIAL GAME OF SPRING FOOTBALL GOES TO “REDS”
“Blacks” Defeated When DeCamp Recovers Blocked Punt for “Red’s” Score

A blocked punt which rolled behind their opponents’ goal and was recovered by a pile of “Red” gridiron warriors gave
the “Reds” a 6 to 0 victory over the “Blacks” last Saturday afternoon. This was the first of a series
of games played during spring football practice. There was quite a large crowd of students out to witness the melee.
The game as a whole was drab and uninteresting. Neither team could do much in an offensive way and only
a few passes were attempted. For the Reds, Parrish showed a world of drive at times and was continually smashing
off tackle to gain a few yards. McQueen showed up pretty good until he was sent out of the game
with an injury. J. Bradshaw carried the ball with much success at times, he and Parrish doing most of the
ball-toting for the victors. N. Bradshaw and Fraley were the outstanding stars for the losers. Fraley looked good backing up
the line and Bradshaw did most of the offensive work during the first half. Goodykontz showed some of his old-time
form in running. Milton and Lillard were very good in the line. The Reds led in first downs, getting six
to their opponents’ two.

LINEUP
REDS POSITION BLACKS
Brower L. E. Johnston
Barger L. T. Covington
Miller L. G. Mathis
McConnell C. Mason
DeCamp R. G. Parker
Scales R. T. Milton
Davidson R. E. Miller
Showalter Q. B. McFadyen
Poe L. H. Bradshaw, N.
Bradshaw, J. R. H. Fraley
Reels F. B.

Tennis Team To Make Two Trips

Thirteen matches and a state meet are planned for the tennis team this spring. This exceptionally heavy schedule is to
include a trip to South Carolina, one to Virginia, and one to the state tennis meet which will probably be
held at Duke University. During the Spring Recess, March 28 to April 3, the team will go to South Carolina
to meet Wofford, Erskine, Furman, and Clemson. Each of these teams will give a return match on the home courts
later in the season. The third weekend in April sees the team off to the state championship meet from whence
they will continue on a trip through Virginia, which will be the main event of the season. On this trip,
they are scheduled to meet V. P. I, the University of Virginia, William and Mary College, the University of Richmond,
and Hampden-Sydney College. Only one of these colleges will return the match, the University of Richmond being scheduled to play
at Davidson on the third of April, immediately after holidays. The lettermen in tennis from last year are J. T.
Roddey, captain, A. N. Halverstadt, manager, and Frontis W. Johnson. To date, the team has had only two days' practice.
The prospective men to fill the vacant places are J. E. Bradley, W. L. Poe, A. L. DeCamp, and H.
C. Pettus.

Make This Store Your Headquarters
Stationery
Fountain Pens
FRESH SHIPMENT NUNNALLY’S CANDY
SUPERIOR SODA SERVICE
Note Books
Athletic Supplies
W. S. HENDERSON
Davidson, N. C.

Madge Bellamy explains the growing popularity of Old Golds in Hollywood

MADGE BELLAMY ... Beautiful Fox star in her latest release, “Mother Knows Best.”

He coughed ... the Villain! and the love scene had to be taken all over! Why not a cough in
a carload...?

“The ‘hero’ in a movie may easily become the ‘villain’ if he coughs at the wrong time. A cough isn’t
ever nice, but when it interrupts the taking of a movie scene, it’s a calamity!

“The high tension of movie work makes smoking a vital relaxation. But we relax with OLD GOLDS. They’re as smooth
as the polished manner of Adolphe Menjou, who himself is an OLD GOLD fan.

“While they’re the most enjoyable of cigarettes, OLD GOLDS mean absolute ‘fade-out’ for throat-scratch and smoker's cough.”

OLD GOLD cigarettes are blended from HEART-LEAF tobacco, the finest Nature grows ... Selected for silkiness and ripeness from the
heart of the tobacco plant ... Aged and mellowed extra long in a temperature of mid-July sunshine to ensure that
honey-like smoothness.

ON YOUR RADIO... OLD GOLD PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR... Paul Whiteman, King of Jazz, with his complete orchestra, in a full
hour every Tuesday, from 9 to 10 P. M., Eastern Standard Time, over the entire network.

Eat a chocolate, light an Old Gold, and enjoy both!
P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760
