2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 26, 1929

Kittens Work Hard For Initial Battle

After two weeks of practice under the guidance of Coach “Red” Laird, the freshman football squad is beginning to round
into shape, and some predictions are being made as to how the yearlings will fare against the stiff schedule which
they will face this season. Laird is as non-committal over the prospects as Coach Monk generally is concerning the Varsity,
but he seems to be generally optimistic over their showing so far.

There is a great deal of competition in the backfield for the punting and passing assignments. Mills and McFie are
contending for both positions, and Clark has also been hurling the pigskin in a very satisfactory manner. McDonald has been
calling signals in a manner that sounds good, and seems to have first lease on the safety position. Other promising
backs are Cavon, Pearce, Beacham, Peabody, Fleagle, and Manson.

In the line, the following men have been showing up well: Gregory, Mackerell, McConnell, Little, Bernard, Mauzy, McFadyen, Mullins, Ogden,
Pierce, Brooks, Robinson, Cannon, McKiffen, Gardner, and Barrier.

Scrimmages will be the assignment for next week as finishing touches will be put on the squad in preparation for
their hard game with Oak Ridge a week from tomorrow. Other games carded for the Fresh team are as follows:
October 18—Wofford—Here.
October 25—Rutherford—There.
November 8—N. C. State—Here.
November 22—Duke—There.

ENGAGEMENTS MADE
(Continued from page 1)

MacConnell’s work, and the other to Captain Pritchett’s department. With this chart, the ones in charge of the physical life
of Davidson can easily obtain an idea of the advancement of the student and can carefully determine whether any defects
have been remedied.

In addition to the added number of examinations, all students will be required to take a course in physical education
this year. Last session only the two upper classes were in this department, particularly those who were not enrolled in
R. O. T. C. Since the close of school last spring, the old armory has been changed into a building
for physical training. Mats, parallel, horizontal, and stall bars, weights, and other body-building equipment have been installed. The classes meet
three times each week, on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, with Captain Pritchett in charge. According to Captain Pritchett, the only
students who will be exempted from this course are those in R. O. T. C., the varsity football squad, the
fall track team, and probably the wrestlers.

CADET OFFICERS APPOINTED
(Continued from page 1)

Covington, J. L. Brock, B. M. Drake, H. F. Bost, R. S. Hall; Company “B,” B. H. Harris, A. R.
Jackson, W. G. Sugg, H. Mixson; Company “C,” J. L. Preston, C. E. Kraemer, C. A. Sisson, B. R. Lowrance;
Company “D,” J. L. Smith, J. W. McCutchan, W. C. Thompson, J. L. Severance.

GAMMON CITES PAUL
(Continued from page 1)

should strive to get from his college days that which will best fit him for service to his fellow man,
remembering the words of the apostle Paul, “What things are gain to me, those I count lost for Christ.”

Looks Fishy

A man gets up in the morning
From a mattress that’s advertised
And eats a great big breakfast
Made by makers wise;
He seats himself at the table
And eats advertised food
Drinks a cup of advertised tea,
And leaves in a pleasant mood;
He goes to his place of business,
And it’s a strange thing to say,
If you solicit an advertisement,
He will argue, it doesn't pay.

There was a young fellow named Sid,
Who kissed a girl on the eyelid,
She said, look here, young lad,
I think your aim is pretty bad,
You should practice awhile, so he did.

Capt. Paget: “And where was Sheridan when he took his twenty-mile ride?”

DETROIT TIGERS VIEW CAT ACE

Buck Marrow, ace twirler of the Davidson Wildcats, re-entered Davidson after spending the last few weeks of the summer in
company with the Detroit Tigers, where he went after pitching a number of games for the Concord Weavers, who have
laid claim to the semi-pro baseball title of North Carolina. Marrow says that he has not signed a contract with
Detroit, but that he went to the Michigan city to give the higher-ups a chance to look him over. He
has steadfastly refused to place his name on the dotted line, preferring to first complete his college course. The Davidson
pitcher did not receive a call to the mound during the time he was with Detroit.

Buck is a powerfully built hurler, standing six feet four, with 190 pounds to his credit. He pitched some great
games for the Wildcats during the 1929 season, his best performance being against Cornell, which outfit he blanked in Greensboro
while his teammates were chalking up a quintet of counters. Marrow is not the essence of consistency, however, with two
more years of college experience, he should be ripe for one of the national pastime pastures. A number of the
big league scouts have been viewing his performances for two years, and their reports at headquarters have evidently been of
a most favorable tone.

FALL MAT TRAINING STARTS IMMEDIATELY

Fall wrestling practice will begin some time this week, according to Coach Tilson, and will continue until about Thanksgiving. The
six letter men who are back are: Brock, Brown, Cowan, Warren, and Captain Christenbury. These men will form the nucleus
of the team. Last year’s Freshman squad will furnish excellent material for the varsity this year with Elkins, Grady, White,
Ashcraft, and Conway.and Baker enrolled. Practice will be held three nights a week at the gymnasium. All men intending to
go out for wrestling are urged to attend these fall practices.

FAIR CROWD OUT FOR FALL TRACK

Fall track started with a snap and vigor this year under the leadership of Captain Heath Whittle, in spite of
the fact that there are only forty-five upperclassmen and twenty-five Freshmen who have reported for practice. There are several openings
for good track men and especially for any who may wish to try their speed on the cinder path. The
object of fall track is to build up the body in preparation for the regular track season. Heath Whittle is
coaching fall track this year. The practices will be conducted out of doors until colder weather, at which time the
men will report for practice in the gym. This year, a cross-country team is to be organized by Captain Pritchett.
The team will enter in only one meet. If it shows up well, in all probability these boys will be
sent to the State meet. Also, it has been arranged to have Davidson’s relay team compete with the Tar Heel
Quartet between the halves of the Carolina game on Home-Coming Day. However, these plans can only be made real if
more of the student body, both upperclassmen and Freshmen, turn out for fall practice. According to Whittle, there ought to
be about fifty more upperclassmen and a third more as many Freshmen reporting within the next few days.

DAVIDSON CATS TO BATTLE CLEMSON

(Continued from page 1)

Davidson Position Weight
Brock (Capt.) ---- L.E. 158
Baker --------------- L.T. 174
DeCamp ------------ L.G. 180
Mason --------------- C. 161
Miller --------------- R.G. 164
Raker --------------- R.T. 174
Brown --------------- R.E. 167
McCall -------------- Q.B. 165
Brohard ------------- L.H. 168
Patrish -------------- R.H. 146
Fraley --------------- F.B. 172

Auto Salesman: “Our cars no good? Why, we're selling them by the dozens!”
Prospect: “I’m not surprised — how much are they a dozen?”

DAVIDSON EX-MAYOR DIES AT MONTREAT

Mr. Charles Harvey Hamilton, of Davidson, N.C., died on August 22, while at his summer home in Montreat. Mr. Hamilton’s
funeral was held at the Gilwood Presbyterian Church on Sunday, August 24. The deceased served several terms as mayor of
the town of Davidson, and it was during his administration that several municipal developments were launched and completed. Mr. Hamilton
also served as secretary-treasurer of the building and loan association, justice of the peace, and was a successful farmer before
coming to Davidson. During his life, Mr. Hamilton was an ardent church worker, and he preferred to remain with the
smaller church at Gilwood rather than sever his connection when he moved to Davidson. He taught a Sunday School class,
was an elder in the church, and in many other ways demonstrated his Christianity.

FACULTY TO HONOR PRESIDENT

(Continued from page 1)

The place in the handsome new faculty room on the second floor of New Chambers Building, and this lovely meeting
place is expected to furnish a correct setting for a most enjoyable social gathering. “Quadwranglers” refuse to divulge the nature
of their program for entertainment, and the affair is shrouded in a thick coat of mystery. Speculation is that the
faculty members and their ladies will spring a surprise of some sort with which to initiate Davidson’s new president into
the ranks of the “Quadwranglers.” Following close on the heels of other functions in honor of the Lingles, tonight’s reception
will be the faculty’s own greeting to its new leader.

Important

The photographer from White's Studio will be in Davidson October 7, to begin taking the pictures for the 1930 “Quips
and Cranks.” The Business Manager, W. R. Hill, requests that all students desiring their pictures in the annual be present
at the studio in Elm Row at the time of their appointments with the photographer.

FRESH CLASS SHOWS GOOD SCHOOL SPIRIT

The Freshman Class started its college career and class record well by putting up the bleachers in record time, only
taking four days to do the work. For many years the class has voluntarily done the work at the suggestion
of Coach Younger. This year the Freshmen have shown a remarkable spirit of co-operation in doing the work. The bleachers
constructed will be sufficient to last through the Citadel game which is to be played on October 19. Additional bleachers
will be constructed at the ends of the field to accommodate the crowd for the V.M.I. game.

Stationery and embossed
Best Quality and Prices
ANY TYPE OF PRINTING
Earnest H. McCall
108 Watts
Representing Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

PUNCTUATE YOUR DAY WITH CAMELS

Let Camels be the commas and periods in the page of your daily activity. Each Camel is a little interlude,
a high-spot of pleasure, with which to punctuate your changing moods and thoughts. It adds so much to the pleasure
of life to pause now and then and say to yourself, “Time out for a Camel!” In Camel, you get
that extra measure of pleasure because Camels are expertly blended from the choicest tobaccos grown. Mild and mellow, cool and
refreshing, their fragrance is always pleasant, indoors and out, and they do not tire the taste nor leave an after-taste.
