2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24, 1929

“Fighting” ’Cats Lauded By Newspapers of Nation
Army Game Gains Reputation for Davidson in the North

It is common knowledge among Davidson College students that the Wildcat football team played one of the greatest games of
its career against the United States Military Academy at West Point on October 12. Students themselves would have a tendency
to be biased, but disinterested comment from the newspapers of the state and north give high praise to the performance
of Davidson's representatives far away from home that day, and dispels the belief that the student body would be prejudiced
in lauding the work of every Wildcat member.

From many sources the following comment has been gleaned, and it serves the purpose of making every Davidson student, alumnus,
or friend of the college, justly proud of the manner in which the football members disported themselves on the gridiron
that day:

“The Army eleven defeated Davidson College today after a stubbornly fought battle by a score of 23 to 7. The
Southerners outplayed the Cadets for the first two periods, but the Army juggernaut, with Chris Cagle leading, mowed down the
plucky Carolinians in the third quarter. The Davidson line outcharged Army at the outset, * * * and Southern kickers
outpunted Murrell.”—New York Times.

“Davidson College gave the Army a surprise at West Point, the Wildcats holding the soldiers to a 23 to 7
score, leading the Cadets at the half, 7 to 3. * * * The Wildcats display of fight against the
heavier Army team was characteristic of the form displayed in previous contests.”—Associated Press comment, Monday after the game.

“Davidson's scrappy Wildcats—that’s a team, folks, of which one can always be proud. * * *”—News and Observer, Raleigh, comment
Monday.

“Wildcats from North Carolina, in the person of Davidson College’s football team, nearly shivered the armor of the Army, *
* * the first half here today ending, 7 to 3, for the Southerners. * * * Fans fully expected
to see Army humbled after watching the enormous ground gains of the Davidson team during the first half.”—New York World.

“Davidson alumni who attended the game, several hundred strong, were jubilant at the magnificent game the Wildcats put up.”—Charlotte Observer
comment.

“Army trims Davidson, 23 to 7, in hard battle.”—Boston (Mass.) Globe, who simply listed other scores on the front page.

“Too many good things cannot be said about the plucky Wildcats of Davidson for the gallant stand they made against
Biff Jones’ splendid machine * * * The Presbyterians played a first half that may well go down in history
as one of the greatest exhibitions of fighting spirit and grit ever shown on a gridiron. * * * Regardless
of the fate of the team during the remainder of the season, alumni and students of the institution may always
point back to that first half score—Davidson 7, Army 3.”—Concord (N. C.) Tribune.

“Let us not forget the valiant stand of those players up Davidson way, who held the powerful Army team to
a closer score Saturday than anyone had thought they could do. Outweighed about 20 pounds to the man, the lighter
Presbyterian eleven outplayed the soldiers in the first period, scoring one touchdown and threatening with another as the period ended.”—Gastonia
(N. C.) Gazette.

“Army received a spine thriller from Davidson College, the North Carolina Wildcats, in a tight football game here this afternoon
when the first half ended, 7 to 3, for the Southerners. * * * Army could not hold the doughty
Southern boys and another touchdown was threatening when that famous first half ended Army 3; Davidson 7.”—Associated Press report of
the game.

“Davidson did nobly and went down gamely,” was the statement accompanying a cartoon in Raleigh (N. C.) News and Observer.

“Army caught something of a tartar in Davidson College today, a plucky, fast aggregation from Davidson, N. C. * *
* The Southerners had Army on its heels at the end of the first periods with the score Davidson 7;
Army 3; * * * Army’s forward wall yielded much yardage to the onrushing Southerners during the early part of
the contest.”—New York Herald-Tribune.

“Cagle and Murrell had rather hoped to spend the afternoon with blankets around them, but a Davidson team too fast
and nervy for the Army understudies kept the first-string backfield busy all the time.”—Time Magazine, October 20.

“Army had its hardest opposition so far this year from Davidson College. The South:

Halverstadt Meets DuBose in Net Final

E. Z. DuBose, sophomore star, furnished the first upset in the Fall Tennis Tournament when he defeated Captain F. W.
Johnston in the semi-finals. DuBose, No. 1 and captain of last year’s Freshman team, downed Johnston in straight sets 6-3,
6-1, 6-4, to gain A. N. Halverstadt who defeated W. L. Poe 6-1, 6-2, 3-6, 6-4, in the other semi-final
match. The first andSecond round matches all went as was expected and all seeded players, with the exception of S.
B. McLean, who defaulted to Calder, entered the quarter-finals. In the first round, the following matches were played: Halverstadt defeated
Enloe 6-0, 6-0; Pettus defeated Spencer 10-8, 5-7, 6-0; Calder defeated T. W. McLean 6-4, 2-6, 6-3; Harrison defeated Caldwell
6-1, 6-2; Poe defeated Epps 6-0, 6-1; Preston defeated McCutcheon 6-4, 4-6, 6-1; Rusk defeated White 6-3, 6-4; Johnston defeated
Marrow 6-2, 6-1. Roddey, Jackson, and Abernathy advanced to the second round on byes and Coker, Fain, McLean, S. B.,
DuBose, and Moore received defaults.

The second round matches: Halverstadt defeated Coker 6-2, 6-2; Fain defeated Pettus 6-0, 6-0; McLean, S. B., defaulted to Calder;
Poe defeated Harrison 6-1, 6-1; DuBose defeated Roddey 6-0, 6-0; Rusk defeated Preston 7-5, 6-2; Jackson defaulted to Moore; Johnston
defeated Abernathy 6-0, 6-0.

Quarter Finals:
Halverstadt defeated Fain 6-4, 6-2; Poe defeated Calder 6-1, 6-2; DuBose defeated Rusk 6-2, 6-0; Johnston defeated Moore 6-3, 6-2.
In the semi-finals, Halverstadt defeated Poe 6-1, 6-2, 3-6, 6-4; and DuBose defeated Johnston 6-3, 6-1, 6-4.

What President Stockton said about that lay student who hadn’t had a bath had the aspects of a dirty joke.

Davidson Golfers Defeat Salisbury
On Wednesday, October 16, Davidson’s Golf Team defeated the Salisbury Country Club by a final score of 11½ to 6½.
This was Davidson's second meet and also her second victory, the first having been won from Gastonia. Capt. Arthur Mills
was unable to play in the meet due to slight illness. Pepper of Davidson and Walker of Salisbury tied for
the low score with 76 each. In the second match, Woodson of Salisbury defeated Bowles. In the third match, Thompson
of Davidson defeated Skinner. The fourth match was scored up for Davidson when Hart defeated Harrison. Both foursomes came out
all square. The most spectacular shot was that of Hart, who on the 17th hole (which is the 342 one)
sank his 125-yard approach on par four hole. This play of Hart secured for Davidson the Harrison-Hart match. Before the
meet, the Salisbury Club gave a lunch for the Davidson boys at their clubhouse. A return match with Salisbury is
expected to materialize soon.

Scoring:
Points
Davidson:
Pepper (Thompson) 1½
Bowles 1
Thompson 1
Hart 1
Total: 4½

Salisbury:
Walker 1½
Woodson 2
Skinner 1
Harrison 1½
Total: 6½

FIRST MEETING HELD BY SPANISH SOCIETY
At the first meeting of the Spanish Club this year, Tuesday, October 15, 1929, A. G. Randolph, Jr., was elected
Secretary and Treasurer of the organization. He succeeded Albert Cowan, who failed to return to school. The membership at present
is composed of the following: Faculty members; Professors Fleagle, Goldiere, and Weaver; Students, P. R. Alderman, E. S. Bettis, R.
P. Enloe, S. L. Gant, W. T. Hancock, W. L. Hart, P. S. Hudgens, D. C. Hunter, E. C. Kraemer,
J. R. Marks, R. W. McDermid, W. G. McGavock, J. K. Pepper, A. G. Randolph, W. R. Robinson, and R.
S. Torrence. The officers of the club are the following: W. L. Hart, President; J. K. Pepper, Vice-President; A. G.
Randolph, Secretary and Treasurer.

THREE DORMS HAVE TELEPHONE SERVICE
Davidson is assuming city-like proportions, even in the dormitories. Mrs. N. T. Smith, Supervisor of Dormitories for the college, announces
the installation of telephones in Watts Hall, East, and West Dormitories. The work of installation was completed last Tuesday. Needless
to say, the phones are the old reliable sort which necessitate turning the crank to get “Central,” and the dial
system is not yet to be enjoyed at Davidson.

“Do you suppose the money I got from that Scotchman is any good?”
“It ought to be—it’s aged in the wad.”

In a cigarette it’s “TRUE MERIT IS LIKE A RIVER; the deeper it is, the less noise it makes.” There
is nothing sensational about Chesterfields; good tobaccos, blended and cross-blended, the standard Chesterfield method, to taste just right. But—haven’t you
noticed how smokers are changing to Chesterfield, for that very reason—“TASTE above everything.”

Chesterfield
FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED
MILD ... and yet THEY SATISFY
