THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 28, 1929

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the College Year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina. Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

Editor-in-Chief
ZEB V. LONG, Jr.

Business Manager
E. H. McCALL

EDITORIAL STAFF
B. BLACK, Managing Editor
W. McCUTCHAN, Managing Editor
C. RAGIN, Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN, Athletic Editor
J. F. PRESTON, Feature Editor
W. L. BROWN, Feature Editor
F. JARRATT, Editor
F. D. MILLER, Associate Editor
C. M. PRATT, Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
A. CANNON, Asst. Bus. Mgr.
L. BOYD, Subscription Mgr.
H. McKINNON, Solicitor
S. McKINNON, Solicitor
E. MANN, Solicitor
J. L. SEVIER, Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. P. BARNES, President
W. GRAHAM, Vice-President
V. D. MIDDLETON, Secretary-Treasurer
G. BERRY
C. G. PEPPER
C. MATTHEWS
G. DUNKLIN
G. MARTIN
W. S. LEA
R. SMITH
C. W. F. SPENCER
O. STEPHENSON
W. T. HANCOCK
A. H. WHITEHEAD
JOHN M. BROWN
R. F. NORTON
G. P. PARDINGTON
J. E. MATTHEWS
W. H. BIRD
E. C. WELLE

---

NOVEMBER 28, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

—Rejoices in this, another Thanksgiving Day, a time to remember and to be humble.
—Reviews Davidson’s glorious past with satisfaction; hails her future as a brilliant one.
—Has a hunch that they are going to surprise the Blue Devils with a victory.
—Offers appreciation to the Seniors, playing their last game today, for their service to Davidson.
—Is beginning to get Christmas in its “bones.”
—Wonders how many men are satisfied with their work of the fall.
—Would like to see the dormitories a little quieter during study and resting hours.

WITH HEARTS SINCERE

Among the many holidays set aside by the authorities for one reason and another, no one meets the same requirements as does Thanksgiving Day, nor has any other quite the same hold upon our people. Although the tendency of late seems to be for the general public to center its Thanksgiving Day in a football game, we are sure that the guiding spirit of gratitude and of recognition of the blessings so evident in our daily life has not lost its significance. Perhaps, however, we all need to think a little more about the spirit, and to carry it with us a little longer than the allotted twenty-four hours.

Since the first Thanksgiving Day, each succeeding year has brought added cause for the growth of hearts sincere. No nation of people that we know anything about has been so consistently favored as has the American nation. The rude Plymouth church has developed into the massive cathedral of Saint John the Divine, the quaint military company of Miles Standish has evolved into a mighty army and navy, the simple schooling of the settler’s child finds its modern-day parallel in Harvard and Yale. It has indeed been a marvelous progress, and a progress which has exacted its toll in the blood of the people. No wonder that a thankful people went to their knees on that memorable Thanksgiving in 1918.

But through the years, through the trials of history-making events, America’s fortune has been that of steady improvement. There has been no retreat in her march, and of all people, hers have experienced power and happiness in tremendous measures. Let our happiness today be real. Let it inspire us to visions of greater service tomorrow. Let us set the spirit of Thanksgiving upon the pedestal of our ideals, and make it live as we face the contacts of friendship and the contacts of business. And may hearts sincere everywhere turn today to Him, with “one increasing purpose,” striving to know Him better.

DUKE TAKES LEAVE

The clash with Duke University’s Blue Devils this afternoon marks a turning point in Davidson’s athletic policy. For years Duke has furnished opposition on Thanksgiving Day, and the meeting of the two teams has come to be an event in southern football circles. The glamor naturally attendant upon any Turkey Day game has been greatly intensified as Wildcat and Blue Devil, traditional rivals for more reasons than one, have hooked up in thrilling encounters, with honors about even over a period of years. Relations between the institutions have always been of the most satisfactory sort, and it is with regret that we note the replacement of Duke by another rival for next season’s game. Duke will probably engage Washington and Lee a year from today, while Monk Younger and Tex Tilson are leading their men against Wake Forest College. It seems that the change will give added incentive to the Wildcat team next fall, for Wake Forest is an old enemy on the gridiron, and with both squads pointing harder than ever for the Thanksgiving game, a classic battle will surely ensue. So with today’s struggle we bid farewell to the Blue Devils as Thanksgiving Day opponents, and wish them the best of luck after five o’clock this afternoon.

THE TIGER OF FRANCE

People the world over are touched by the death of Georges Clemenceau, former Premier of France and moving spirit in the national life of the republic. Seldom has a more picturesque and, at the same time, forceful figure appeared on the political horizon of any country. The “Tiger’s” work for his beloved France will go down in history as monumental. Already French historians are comparing him with such eminent figures as Danton, Jeanne D’Arc, Gambetta and even the mighty Napoleon. The third French Republic has brought many leaders to the fore, but none is deemed to have served more to evoke the grandeur of France than did the former premier.

When the “father of victory,” as Frenchmen are wont to call this pioneer of their government, passed from the scene, it was the signal for a spontaneous outburst of patriotism in every quarter of the land. A flood of memories were revived, and the spirit of France was exalted. In accordance with the expressed wish of the dead statesman, no elaborate funeral rites were observed. Simplicity was the keynote, and that keynote well expressed the nature of the man’s life. Such an event could not fail to stir the people to greater realization of their debt to country. As Premier Tardieu addressed parliament Monday, his fervent plea was that all Frenchmen might never forget Clemenceau’s idealism and that all might work and labor for France. “Practice his virtues, that is how we may honor the great Clemenceau best,” were the premier’s words. Truly a captain has departed.

PERFECTED GENIUS

We hope that everybody who attended the concert by Fritz Kreisler enjoyed it as fully as we did, for in that case a most worthwhile evening was spent, and the listeners went away thrilled at the mastery of the artist. If there is such a thing as perfected genius, as ultimate achievement in a particular field, we think Kreisler must be an exponent of that condition. Never have we come in contact with anything so consummate as his skill with his instrument and his interpretation of mood with music. Even though a number of selections in a concert of this nature are somewhat beyond the average listener’s appreciation, it is a rare privilege to even try to understand the movements and the spirit of the music. Most of us do not make enough contacts with the finer arts to develop real appreciation. It behooves us to grasp eagerly such opportunities as the one offered last week, and to cultivate our tastes by paying attention to the best. Kreisler’s offering entranced his audience, carried it away on the wings of fantasy, created perfect images for it, and sent it away feeling that something fine and noble had been approached through the medium of the master’s strings. Artistry had accomplished a triumph of the first water, and countless supporters had been won to the side of beauty.

It is to be regretted that certain factions of the audience assembled that night showed so little courtesy and tact at the conclusion of the regular program. It is customary for the artist to render several encores, and the audience’s behavior was not in keeping with the dignity of the occasion.

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

Ernest Thompson Seton, in his two books, “Wild Animals at Home,” and “Rolf in the Woods,” declares that it has never rained for more than three days and nights in succession. His studies depict conditions in the Adirondacks and in the Yellowstone. For this reason Davidson students will doubtless forgive his apparent discrepancies.

“If winter comes can spring be far behind?”

News reports from the Orient tell of the flight of Chinese soldiers before the Reds. Arguments over the Manchurian Railway are still the promoting cause. In all history it would be hard to find aWar which was based solely on moral and social reasons. There has almost invariably been an economic cause behind the actual declaration of activities. War is foolish from the standpoint of the average citizen. But, since the world as a whole has not been sufficiently educated to the point of realizing this policy, there are and should be sensible plans for defense. As mentioned in this column last week, naval parity with Great Britain appears childish when soundly thought out. Despite the Kellogg Peace Pact, The League of Nations, and the D. A. R., the Senate is making salient plans to appropriate millions of dollars toward the construction of new cruisers and submarines. Lest this statement appear contradictory to the one above, let it be said that the United States can obtain adequate defense without achieving naval parity with all of the other nations of the world. It would be an economic and tactical impossibility for England to use all of her cruisers for the purpose of attack. Forty-four persons were injured and five killed in a blast which took place in the basement of a ten-cent store in Washington, D. C. This combined with trouble in the Far East recalls to mind the Black Hole of Calcutta. The picture of a small, ill-ventilated room, overcrowded with prisoners under a tropical sun, illustrates the horror of contest between civilized and uncivilized forces. And it will be remembered that the Sepoy rebellion was instigated by the report that British cartridges were greased with hog fat. The hog, eaten by English and Americans, is an unclean animal. Rewards are excellent devices with which to regain lost property. Frank De Luca received $5,000.00 upon the return of a necklace which he had found. Doubtless this was pleasing to De Luca, and the lady who lost the jewelry was probably equally glad to have it recovered. Yet to the more prosaic-minded comes the question as to how many would return a valuable article if no reward was to be gained. How many people make friends for the reason of profiting by that friendship? Don’t mistake this for a sermon. At times this column tries to be a trifle thought-provoking, and then there is space to be filled. France is one country in the world which sincerely mourns the passing of its great men. It is noble for a nation to live in the memory of its historic and beautiful past. It would be better if other countries followed the example. This column does not advocate more holidays for the purpose of picnics, political gatherings, family reunions, and athletic contests; all of these activities are good and enjoyable. But has one ever paused to think what it would mean if there were three or four days in the year when the American people would review the past history of their country and actually study the diplomatic and economic moves which give us our present place of leadership in great nations of the world? As it is, the banks are about the only organizations which observe a fair average of the holidays. They miss very few! Throngs observed on the campus: Juniors who have completed their R. O. T. C. maps. Their faces show it. A few individuals who have clipped, grown, and reclipped feeble growth on the upper lip. Multitudinous arrays of many-colored slickers. Anxiety over mid-semester reports. Some have received their reports and some haven't. One golfer whose amusement appears to be slicing his ball from the first tee into the drill ranks of the military unit. Davidsonian, Chameleon, and Quips and Cranks in a huddle. Must be a concealed play.

Encores, and it is Kreisler’s habit to give about four. The audience ordinarily remains seated until the lights of the hall come up. In the Charlotte gathering, however, several listeners arose at the conclusion of Kreisler’s second encore, thus starting a general movement, which resulted in the concert being shortened, and which really constituted a breach of courtesy usually extended to guest artists.

Smokehouse Saga By W. C. Ragin (Published Weekly)

As you all probably know, underneath the smiling exterior of every clown there lies a busted heart. (Yes, pard, it’s funny how these danged cinders get in your eyes. However, even though the traffic lights are shining, left, clown, left.) While I’m in this dismal slough of despondency, I might as well jot down a few of life’s little tragedies that have come under my observation. Yes, I might as well, I’ve got to fill up this column somehow. Alas, I fear that I have become a cynic—a kitchen cynic that or even a mere porcelain cynic. You, my public, have read of miserable suicides and know that at the end of life in the big city there lies the River. “Tonsilitis” Thwett (they called him Tonsilitis because he was a pain in the neck) could not sleep. For many a night, he had rolled and tossed on his little trundle-bed while he vainly wooed Morpheus by counting the black sheep of his family. Finally, he could stand it no longer. One morning bright and early, he went to a leading hardware store of the city. “I want an automatic,” he muttered. He selected a wicked-looking .45 and then asked for some cartridges. The clerk brought some soft-nosed bullets, but Tonsilitis rejected them with a glance of disgust. “I want steel jackets,” he snarled, “they will kill just as quickly, and don’t shatter the bone.” He took his purchase and hastened home. That night, he locked his door and undressed for the night. Then, he stealthily loaded his pistol and laid it on the table. He began to write a letter, but suddenly he made up his mind. He strode over to the window, opened it, and slowly raised the gat. A shot rang out and simultaneously a scream—another alley cat was dead and Tonsilitis could at last sleep. Remember, gentle reader, this same alley cat was descended from the powerful Nubian lions who used to consume the Christian martyrs in the days of Nero. As these lions would lie in their cages, they would growl to one another, “It’s a hard life, boys. We're here today and gone to martyr.” Many of life’s little tragedies also take place in the sordid world of crime. Why, right here in our own school, a most horrible thing came to pass before my protesting eyes. Early one morning, I was disturbed by a scuffling on the floor above me. Suddenly, a wild yell assailed my ears. More scuffling followed and a window was raised. I heard the dull patter of scurrying feet on the grass below, and suddenly, a lifeless body was hurled from the window to fall with a muffled thud on the cold, hard ground. Another yell burst forth and I heard the voice scream, “Freshman, take this bundle down to the laundry and be quick about it!”

OPEN FORUM

Just what do you think of the system of absences and cuts here at Davidson? Personally, I think it is good but could be much improved! And here is one system I am offering for the consideration of the student body and faculty: let each student have ten absences, whether excused or unexcused, and these are to take nothing away from the final semester grades. These ten absences are to cover everything—chapel, church, and classes, and, as at present, two tardies are to count for one absence. But any cut above those ten is to take one point off of the semester grade, unless the student is put on the extended sick list. After he gets, say, five cuts above the ten then he will be asked to withdraw from college. At the beginning of the following semester let the student start off without any absences against him. The present system may be fair, that is, of carrying over from one semester to the next the cuts above six, but to me it seems entirely unfair, because a student may be compelled sometimes to take more absences than those now allowed by the college, with the result that he must start the semester with from one to six or more absences against him. We begin the new semester with new subjects, and get a new set of grades, so, it seems inconsistent not to do likewise with the absences. What do you think? I would be glad to read some criticism in this column next week, either pro or con. Watson Wharton.

OUR SEVEN BIG FEARS

Classifying the world’s greatest fears President Glenn Frank of Wisconsin University places these seven at the head of the list:

Fear the white race is reproducing its worst element fastest.
Fear of being dominated by crowd thinking.
Fear of the industrial civilization destroying itself.
Fear that democracy is not the most efficient form of government.
Fear civilization moves in cycles, and the Western civilization is approaching its downfall.
Fear our institutions are becoming so big and so complicated that we are unable to train men to handle them.
Fear that the present generation has renounced allegiance to all wholesome standards of conduct.