THE future belongs to those who prove themselves true friends of mankind. —Woodrow Wilson.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
GET BEHIND THIS BAND UNIFORM FUND

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 7, 1929 No. 16

GLEE CLUB PLANS SEVERAL CHANGES
Club to be Slightly Larger Than Usual

The Glee Club met last Monday night for the first practice since the Christmas Holidays, and at this time some
eight or ten men were present to try out for several places in the club which are now open. No
definite choices were made from the men at the meeting, however. The club will be slightly larger this spring than
it was in the Fall and it is expected that it will show up on its trip this Spring better
than on the trip during the Fall. The schedule for the first trip to be made this Spring has not
been completed. The club has been definitely booked for concerts at Lincolnton and at Converse College on March the 15th
and 16th, respectively, and several other places will probably be booked for concerts to come on the same trip. Professor
Cullum stated that one or more new songs would be learned for the Spring trip, the club practicing twice a
week until then. He plans to reorganize the quartet and has several new songs which he plans for the quartet
to use in the concerts this spring. Changes are being made in the program, and, although the details have not
been made known, Professor Cullum announces that there will be a big feature, quite novel and distinctive on the program
of the club this Spring.

MON. MICHENOT TO MAKE TALK HERE
Will be on His Second Lecture Tour of America

The local chapter of the Cercle Francais, which was organized last year by the professors of French and students talented
in French here in the college, with the co-operation of the faculty committee on lectures will bring to Davidson on
February 11th, Monsieur Daniel Michenot. Monsieur Michenot is a lecturer of the Alliance Francaise, with which the Davidson chapter is
connected. The local chapter is bringing Monsieur Michenot here for the pleasure of those interested in French and to secure
more interest in French by more students in the school. Last year a very interesting talk was made to those
interested in French by a Frenchman secured by the faculty committee on lectures and the Cercle Francais. This will be
Monsieur Michenot’s second lecture tour of America, his first being two years ago when he lectured to many groups over
the country. Monsieur Michenot is one of the outstanding scholars brought to America this year by the Alliance Francaise. He
studied in Paris and was named Professor of Diction at the Conservatory of Lausanne, Switzerland where he remained until the
outbreak of the World War. At the outbreak of the war he entered the service of his country as a
private. He was in all the campaigns of his regiment and saw 52 months of service, and was discharged as
a captain. After he was discharged, he was immediately called to the Conservatory of Strassbourg where he faced a very
difficult task. He not only had to teach; but also had the job of organizing the instruction in Alsace of
French Literature and dramatics. As President of the Groupe d’art Social he carried the masterpieces of French dramatic art to
the smallest towns of the restored territory. Monsieur Michenot has in his career made several successful lecturing tours in Switzerland,
Belgium, Luxemburg, Holland and Canada. On these different trips and especially the trip to America two years ago, Monsieur Michenot
has made a name for himself as a scholar and a lecturer. The Cercle Francais is bringing M. Michenot on
account of his reputation as an interesting lecturer. His lecture is expected to be very interesting, especially to those taking
French. Monsieur Michenot is expected to lecture in French on the following topic: Un Romantique Moderne; Edmond Rostand.

Junior Speaking

Junior Speaking will be changed from March 16th to March 23rd. The reason is that the orchestra and Glee Club
will make a trip to Converse College on the former date. On Friday night, March 22nd, there will be an
entertainment in Charlotte. Saturday afternoon the State High School track meet will be held at Davidson, after which the Junior
Class will act as host to the rest of the student body. The type of entertainment is withheld by officials
at present. In the evening they will stage a production in the form of a play.

REV. A. E. DILLARD TALKS AT VESPERS
Presbyterian Minister of Charlotte Brings Sincere Message to Students

“For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain.” “These are words that one might shrink from
taking as a Gospel message,” said Rev. A. E. Dillard of the Tenth Avenue Presbyterian Church of Charlotte speaking before
the students at Y. M. C. A. vespers last Sunday. It was expected that Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson of Charlotte
would speak, but prevented by sickness, he asked Rev. Dillard to take his place. Rev. Dillard is a graduate of
Presbyterian College in Clinton, S. C., and of Columbia Theological Seminary. Formerly he held a pastorate in Greenville, S. C.
The simplicity of the words of the text leave no room for doubt as to their meaning but it is
a hard Gospel to live. Such however, was the consecration of Paul and in it lay the secret of his
life. Death for him was advancement and progress, and so it is with any man whose philosophy of life is
the same. There were four elements to consecration. The first is that life comes from Christ. Paul realized that the
best any man can give is himself and that therefore he owed it to Christ to live. This teaching that
Christ is the source of our life is not original with Paul; Christ taught it when he said, “I am
come that ye might have life and that ye might have it more abundantly.” Life is a gift of Christ.
Again, life is to be lived for Christ. The tragedy of human life is selfishness. From it proceeds all the
sin in this world. “We must not let loose another life with self as its center and god. Christ came
to save us from that. He said, “Let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.” It
is as impossible to be selfish and Christian as it is to be human and brutish. The reason for failure
is selfishness; no godly life has been lived in vain. That life is to be lived with Christ. This is
the sweetest privilege of all. We will not always know the way but we will have a companion who knows
the way. However two can walk together only if they are agreed so we must keep our lives in harmony
with His. As we walk with him we will grow to live like him, in heart, mind and action. Then
only will we live lives of fullest force and power. A life out of Christ is like the timid navigators
who clung close to shore and never saw the beauties of mid-ocean as those who are guided by the stars.

CAMPUS VISITED BY TRUSTEE COMMITTEE
Mid-Winter Meeting of Board to be Held February 20

Two committees of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College have been at Davidson within the past week to make
some investigations for their report to the board which meets in semi-annual session here on February 21st. The new constitution
adopted by the board at the last commencement provides for these special committees, the members of which must make a
personal survey, which will put them in a position for a more accurate and minute report. The committee on buildings
and grounds, headed by Clay Williams, of Winston-Salem, spent one day at Davidson looking over the present condition of all
the buildings at Davidson, and the upkeep of the grounds. Acting with Mr. Williams were J. A. Cannon, of Concord,
and Geo. W. Hall, of Hickory. Dr. Walter Lingle, of Richmond, Va., chairman of the board of trustees, is also
chairman of the special educational committee, which met at Davidson, last Tuesday, February 5th. The exact nature of this committee's
work is unknown. Working with Dr. Lingle were Dr. Byron Clark, of Salisbury, and Smith Richardson, of Greensboro. It is
believed that these reports will first pass through the hands of the executive committee of trustees, which meets in Charlotte
a day or two prior to the regular semi-annual meeting. Recommendations will probably be made regarding facilities and conditions. Davidson,
N. C., Feb. 6.—Letters have been mailed out from Davidson to all sixty-three members of the board of trustees of
the college, notifying them of the regular mid-winter meeting which is to be held here on Wednesday, February 20th. Trustees
of the college are located in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida and Virginia. The Davidson board was enlarged by
a vote of that body last February when it was agreed to double the alumni representation from six to twelve
members of the board. Men elected by the General Alumni Association on a final ballot last commencement were Rev. Walter
Lingle, D. D., of Richmond, Va.; Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, of Charlotte; J. Lee Robinson, of Gastonia; Dr. W. S.
Rankin, of Charlotte; Chas. A. Cannon, of Concord; John W. McAlister, of Greensboro; and John D. Baker, of Jacksonville, Fla.
With the exception of Dr. Lingle, who was re-elected, the other five men will be attending their first meeting. Other
new members of the board are Rev. C. R. Nisbet, D. D., of Charlotte, elected by Mecklenburg Presbytery to fill
the unexpired term of the late Dr. A. A. McGeachy, of Charlotte, and Rev. J. B. Phipps, of Pollocksville, elected
by Wilmington Presbytery to replace Rev. W. M. Baker, of Mt. Olive.

Fresh Minor Officers Are Norton And Dubose
Vice-Presidency and Secretary-Treasuryship go to Norton and Dubose Respectively

At an election held Thursday night, members of the Freshmen class chose R. F. Norton, of Rome, Ga., Vice-president, and
Eugene Dubose, of China, Secretary and Treasurer. R. A. Hall was elected president of the class in a former election,
being chosen from a field of eleven nominees. For the office of Vice-president there were three men nominated from the
floor. They were, Norton, N. G. Spier, of Charlotte, and J. B. Regen, of Franklin, N. C. Regen was eliminated
on the first ballot, and Norton was elected upon the second. There were four nominations made for the position of
Secretary and Treasurer. They were: Dubose, Spier, F. S. Curdts, of Greenville, S. C., and E. D. Kuykendall of Greensboro.
Two ballots were conducted in this election, Spier again being eliminated upon the final voting.

EDWIN M. STECKEL HERE FEBRUARY 11
Edwin M. Steckel, director ofMusic in the Gastonia Public Schools will appear at Davidson Monday, February 11. The program is
to be sponsored by the music department of Davidson College and is the first of a series of musical programs
planned by this department. Professor Steckel, using a Steinway piano with a Duo-Art attachment as his medium, will present to
the audience renditions of musical masterpieces as played by noted pianists. These selections are the most perfect that artists can
produce, since they are recorded only after many experiments in the recording laboratory. An unfinished work of art is not
unusual; however, there are few unfinished musical compositions of merit. “The Unfinished Symphony” of Schubert is one of the few.
Students will easily recognize (Continued on page 3)

SENIORS VOTE TO OMIT WRITE-UPS IN ’29 YEARBOOK

Plans of Receiving Commencement Invitations Altered

INTERMURAL BOXING

H. A. Knox Master of Ceremonies as Seniors Meet at Smoker Wednesday

Senior biographies will not appear in the 1929 issue of Quips and Cranks, was the unexpected decision of the Class
at a special meeting Monday night. This action on the part of the class and staff is the most revolutionary
undertaken by the annual in many years past. Coming thus late in the year it is a surprise to many
since a great number of the write-ups have already been prepared for publication. Previously, there had been no little agitation
among the students regarding the matter but no action was taken until Monday night when J. Covington, editor-in-chief of the
book, asked the class to vote its opinion on the subject. What will take the place of the biographies in
the annual has not as yet been announced.

An innovation in regulation concerning commencement invitations was also announced at this meeting. The seniors were directed to report at
the Student Store Tuesday and Wednesday the number which they desired. These invitations will be ordered by the college and
after the seniors have received their quota the remainder will be distributed to the underclassmen. In former years each student
was allotted a certain number of invitations, depending upon his class standing. No little confusion and trouble has been caused
by seniors signing up underclassmen for their invitations.

A third matter acted upon was intramural boxing. R. O. Flinn was appointed to take charge of the senior team,
which will be composed of seven men boxing in seven weights. The class decided to hold a smoker in the
hotel Wednesday night. This event came off in fine style with H. A. Knox as master of ceremonies and P.
B. Fry in charge of a special musical program. The main purpose of the smoker was to work up enthusiasm
for the coming Senior Week-end Party. Several short talks were made on this subject and much spirit was shown in
return.

Seniors!!! Only fifteen more “Asking Days” before Senior Week-End! Have you invited a girl for the Senior House-Party on February
23rd and 24th? If you haven’t, do so at once, and let's make that occasion the biggest event of the
year for our class. —Monroe T. Gilmour, Senior President.

DATE FIXED FOR SENIOR WEEK-END

Majority of Class Signifies Intent of Inviting Girls on Occasion

On Saturday, the twenty-third of this month the long-heralded and rather widely-discussed “Senior Prom” has been scheduled to take place.
The former Sigma Delta house will be used as the class headquarters for the weekend. A dinner at the Chambers
Hotel, at which all of the seniors and their guests will be present, is to be the first formal event
of the program. Later in the evening, a party is to be given the class by the members of the
faculty and their wives with terpischorean entertainment provided. Contrary to previous reports, these comings will be one of the festivities.

In a meeting last Monday night in the Y, several committees were appointed to take charge of various portions of
the program, some of which are not yet completed. At a meeting of the Seniors on the same night, it
was demonstrated when a show of hands was called for, that a large majority of the class intends to have
girls up for the weekend as visitors. The general committee in charge of the whole affair is as follows:

General Committee: Dr. Arbuckle, Mrs. Martin, Mrs. Watts, Mrs. Currie, Mrs. Vowles, Mrs. Hood, Dr. Moffett, Mr. O'Neal, Prof. Lyon,
Mr. King, Prof. Cullum, Mr. J. P. Williams.

Sub-Committees:
Entertainment Committee: Mrs. Martin, chairman.
Music: Prof. Fry.
Decorations: Mrs. Hood, chairman.
Food and Service: Mr. and Mrs. Jackson, chairmen.
Lodging: Mrs. Arbuckle, chairman.
Invitations: Mrs. J. M. McConnell, chairman.
Building Arrangements: Mr. Jackson, chairman.

The entire faculty is to be appointed upon these various sub-committees.

“Y” PLANS LIFE WORK CAMPAIGN

Students to Hear Prominent Men in Vocational Guidance Institution

The Vocational Guidance Institution, sponsored annually by the Davidson Y. M. C. A., is scheduled to begin Feb. 26, to
last until the Easter holidays. During this period, prominent men from all vocations will be brought to the campus for
the purpose of aiding students to decide more fully as to their life's work. The speeches this year will be
delivered at night and the speaker will remain on the campus the following day in order that students might have
a personal interview. Paul Whitlock, a prominent Charlotte lawyer, is to be the first of a series of prominent speakers
to appear here. The list of men representing the other vocations has not yet been completed, but in all cases
the speakers will be outstanding in their particular lines. The following is the schedule of the institutes:

Feb. 26-27, Law.
Feb. 28-29, Medicine.
March 4-8, Business.
March 12-13, Education.
March 14-15, Journalism.
March 19-21, Technical Work.
March 26-27, Ministry.

President Of Princeton Seminary Will Preach Baccalaureate Sermon

Dr. J. Ross Stevenson to Preach to Class of 1929

FORMER MODERATOR

Other Commencement Speakers to be Chosen After Determining Date of Completion of Chambers

Dr. J. Ross Stevenson, president of Princeton Theological Seminary, Princeton, N. J., will deliver the baccalaureate sermon before the 1929
graduating class of Davidson College on June 2nd, according to an announcement made today by Dr. W. J. Martin, president
of the college. The Davidson president expressed gratification that Dr. Stevenson had accepted the invitation. Dr. Stevenson will come to
Davidson direct from St. Paul, Minn., where he will attend a meeting of the U.S. A. Presbyterian Assembly.

Dr. Stevenson has been president of Princeton Seminary since 1914. He is a graduate of Washington and Jefferson College, where
he obtained an A. B. and M. A. His theological work was done at McCormick Theological Seminary in Chicago, and
special study has been done at the University of Berlin. Honorary degrees have been conferred upon him by several institutions,
among which was his own Alma Mater and the University of Edinburgh. Before assuming the presidency of Princeton Seminary, Dr.
Stevenson had served as a pastor in Missouri, as professor at McCormick Theological Seminary, and as pastor of the Fifth
Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York and Brown Memorial Presbyterian Church in Baltimore. He was at one time moderator of
the Northern Presbyterian Church, served in the Y. M. C. A. during the World War, and has been on international
religious committees.

Dr. Martin stated that the selection of other speakers for the commencement program at Davidson is being delayed until it
is definitely known whether the new $600,000 Chambers building will be completed and ready for dedication by June. An announcement
of the possibilities of finishing the structure should be forthcoming within a few days, he said.

Y.M.C.A. ACTIVE IN DEPUTATION WORK

Four Nearby Churches and Charlotte “Y” Visited by Teams

The Y. M. C. A. deputation work has been unusually active during the month of January. A deputation team has
been sent out every Sunday, and oftentimes there have been as many as six teams visiting the nearby churches. Last
Sunday, February 3, three teams went out on deputations. This work has been in charge of R. Frank Brown who
has arranged all of the plans for the deputations.

On Friday, February 1, J. Thompson, Paul A. Pardington, and Charles Brown went to Mount Mourne. A banquet for the
officers of the Christian Endeavor was held at the Mount Mourne High School. Russel Nunan and Glenn Fry left Davidson
Saturday and visited Crossnore, N. C., returning last Sunday night. This is the home of the school conducted by Mrs.
Mary Martin Sloop which is doing a wonderful work in the mountains. Mrs. Sloop is a sister of Dr. Martin.
Every minute of their time was filled while they were at Crossnore, Nunan making four talks and Fry speaking twice.
They addressed the Sunday School, and spoke at both the morning and afternoon preaching services, made a short talk at
the jail, and then that night one led the B. Y. P. U. while the other conducted the Christian Endeavor.

Thyatira Church, near Salisbury, was visited Sunday, Fred Poag and Ellis Marsh making talks to the Christian Endeavor. R. B.
Hayes conducted the meeting. S. L. McCarty and E. S. Bettis furnished special music on a mouth harp and guitar.
Carl Pritchet and Gene Clark spoke to a large group at the Young People's meeting held at this church.
