April 25, 1929 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

BLUE RIDGE CONFERENCE OFFERS “Y” TRAINING

MOUNTAIN RESORT SCENE OF Y.M.C.A. STUDENT MEETING

Blue Ridge Will Open for its Seventeenth Summer Session

Eight or Nine Summer Conferences Held Annually—Delegates from Ten Southern States Present

Fifty thousand people have been guests at Blue Ridge in the sixteen summers it has been open. It was originally
planned for conferences of college men and women, there under the auspices of the student Y. M. C. A. and
Y. W. C. A. But these boys and girls told their parents and these parents began coming to this spot
in the wonderful mountains. In order to meet the needs of these mature people who came for rest and inspiration,
seventy rooms with private baths were added, and these are now taxed to capacity most of the summer by those
who find here an ideal fellowship in the midst of the glories of the rugged mountains and the quiet of
the woods and streams.

For twenty-two years the students of the South have each summer turned their faces toward the hills and journeyed thither
for a ten-day period of refreshment and change from the grind of the college year. Until 1911 the conferences were
held in a number of places in or near the mountains of North Carolina and Tennessee. In 1912 the Blue
Ridge Association dedicated its doors and was opened for service to the college Y. M. C. A. of the South.
Since that year this spot has become a shrine for the students of the South.

Of the eight or nine conferences held each summer on these grounds, we are primarily concerned with the Southern Student’s
Conference of the Y. M. C. A., held this year during the ten days, June 14-24. This conference draws delegates
from the ten Southern states which include on the north Virginia and Kentucky, and on the west runs to the
Mississippi River but includes Louisiana. To this conference come representatives from the student bodies and faculties of every type of
college in the Region, including State Universities, State technical schools, medical, dental, law, theological and other professional schools, denominational schools,
independent colleges and universities. The students and professors who attend the conference are usually those who have manifested interest in
the best things in college life. They are the men who on their own campus can be counted upon to
stand for high moral and intellectual standards, high athletic and social standards.

BLUE RIDGE PROGRAM

Inspiring Platform Speakers

Few Student Conferences of the past have been in a position to announce three such speakers as Fletcher Brockman, Christian
World statesman, T. Z. Koo, Interpreter of the Orient to the West and inimitable in presentation of the heart of
the Christian message, and Dr. Henry Crane, perhaps the most acceptable speaker today to students of the Eastern colleges and
universities. Two other speakers of this caliber will be announced later.

The Guidance Motif Dominant

Certain major life adjustments confront students during their four years in college. They must decide what they are going to
do about vocation, girls, religion, the church, education, etc., which proves a baffling experience. Most are puzzled by the difficulties
involved. That is just what Blue Ridge is prepared to do this coming summer with adequate provision for personal conference,
forum and group discussion, inspiring presentations and ample time for quiet meditation in the seclusion of the mountains, and almost
unparalleled opportunity is made available. The best skilled leadership to be found is being drawn from colleges and universities both
North and South. For the vocational counseling service, there will be a group of counselors selected from Southern colleges, who
will give their whole thought and time to the personal service of individual students. This part of the program is
being planned and carried through by a group of college deans under the Chairmanship of President H.

Robert E. Lee Hall at Blue Ridge

Entire Staffs For Publications Chosen

Outstanding literary and business men on the campus have been chosen to edit and to manage the three campus publications,
“The Davidsonian”, “The Chameleon”, and “Quips and Cranks”. Following are those who were honored for their natural ability and for
their efforts and work during the past few years:

“Davidsonian”: Z. V. Long, Editor-in-Chief; J. B. Black, J. W. McCutchen, and S. S. Wiley, Managing Editors; P. R. Alderman,
Athletic Editor; W. C. Ragin, Feature Editor; and R. F. Jarrett, F. D. Miller, and C. M. Pratt, Associate Editors.
The business staff has not yet been announced by the Business Manager, E. H. McCall.

“Chameleon”: R. F. Jarrett, Editor-in-Chief; F. D. Miller, Poetry Editor; C. M. Pratt, Review Editor; J. W. McCutchen, Short Story
Editor; and D. P. Anderson, Essay Editor. The Business Staff consists of E. L. Roberson, Business Manager and J. G.
Berry, J. H. Henderlite, W. Wharton, F. G. Jenkins, and G. E. McClenaghan, Assistants.

“Quips and Cranks”: C. M. Pratt, Editor-in-Chief; R. F. Jarrett, Literary Editor; F. D. Miller, Athletic Editor; W. G. McGayock,
Activities Editor; W. B. McGuire, Fraternities Editor; D. P. Anderson, Photograph Editor; L. A. Mills, Feature Editor; J. A. Taney,
Art Editor; C. L. DuBose, Classes Editor; and S. S. Wiley, W. Wharton, W. A. Rembert, J. V. D. Middleton,
and A. R. Bird, Assistant Editors. The Business Staff includes W. R. Hill, Business Manager; L. C. Roberts, Circulation Manager;
C. A. Roberts, Assistant Circulation Manager.W. Chase, of the University of North Carolina, Dean Francis F. Bradshaw, has been secured
as expert leader of this group in the field of counselling, and associated with him will be Mr. Harry Bone,
of Columbia University and Union Seminary on campus life adjustments, and Dr. English Bagby, a well-known expert in the psychology
of personality. These leaders, with the group of twenty to twenty-five choice counsellors selected from the more important institutions in
the South, will provide a service quite unique in the quality of its personnel and the service to be rendered.

High Grade Bible Study will be the privilege of those attending the conference this year, in their opportunity to experience
such interpretations of the Bible as will be provided under the leadership of Dr. Bruce Curry, of New York, Dr.
William J. Hutchins, of Berea College, Mr. Harry Bone of the National Council of Y. M. C. A.’s, Dr. J.
M. Culbreth, of the Methodist Board of Education, and Dr. H. M. LeSourd, of Duke University. This has been arranged
in answer to the strongly expressed desire on the part of students for the opportunity to gain an inspiring acquaintance
with the Bible.

Interest and Technique Groups
Running through the Conference will be a number of smaller interest groups delving into such questions as students themselves may
choose for discussion in relation to the application of Christian principles to problems on the campus and in the community.
The latter half of the Conference will be devoted in these same groups to the discussion of the kind of
programs that can actually be carried out through the Christian Association back in the colleges. Such leaders as Harry Bone,
Dr. R. E. Baber, Dr. W. W. Alexander, Mr. Harry Comer, Dr. William J. Hutchins, and others of like caliber
will be the resource men for these groups.

Recreation
This phase of the Conference will be in charge of competent athletic directors who will help organize the sports: tennis,
basketball, swimming, rowing, track, hiking, etc. The afternoons will be completely devoted to these activities or to such recreation as
the delegates themselves may choose. Tournaments will be arranged, in which the delegations with sufficient numbers can participate.

It is, therefore, a group of leaders in the religious life of the school, each case representing the best there
is in the life of the school.

Cisson, H. Mixon, R. H. McLean, Advertising Managers; and M. V. Norfleet, A. R. Jackson, and J. Watt, Assistant Circulation
Managers, S. Overman, and PRESIDENT MARTIN TO RESUME DUTIES

Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson College, will probably be able to discard the crutches he is now using
within about ten days, from present indications. The plaster cast, which has been on his leg since February 24th, has
been removed, and with the use of his crutches he is fast gaining his strength. The fracture is healing, but
the ankle has not yet become strong enough to permit the use of it without the aid of crutches.

President Martin was injured when struck by an automobile as he was crossing a campus driveway on February 22nd. Early
examinations led to the belief that only a sprain had been suffered, but when a reading of the X-ray pictures
was made, a broken ankle bone was found. It has been necessary for Dr. Martin to wear a plaster cast
for the past eight weeks, but he has conducted all necessary business from his home.

Incredulous
When Bill tried to kiss you what did you do?
I told him I had on Kiss-Proof lipstick.

Wofford Terriers Defeat Wildcats
The Davidson Wildcats lost a hard-fought game to the Wofford Terriers here last Wednesday. McInnis and Hall engaged in a
pitcher’s duel for an extra inning affair. The Terriers scored in the first bracket on a home run. The ‘Cats’
were held scoreless until the sixth inning when Armfield was safe on first after having forced Miller at second, a
sacrifice by Littlejohn and a hit by McInnis thus scoring Armfield. The score remained knotted until the tenth inning and
the Terriers scored two runs off two hits, a sacrifice, and an error. In the ‘Cats’ half of this inning,
they pushed a marker across but were unable to tie the score. “Irish” McInnis pitched a good game and did
his part at the plate while “Fritz” Littlejohn played an exceptionally good game at field, robbing the Terriers of several
hits. Hall was the star for Wofford by pitching an exceptionally good game.

Insult
Sambo, whar you-all gwine in sich a rage?
Ah’s gwine to git dat doctah what sewed up my operation wid white thread.

“Prescriptions” All Pipes Less 20 percent 25c.—$10.00 See Our Window Make Our Store Your Store WHITE DRUG COMPANY

What did he do then?
He proved the label was false.

Solomon, with a thousand wives, HAD to be a wise guy.

When better men are made, women will make them.

DRUGS SODA SALE “Drug Sundries”

With a cigarette as good as Camels the simple truth is enough.

CAMEL CIGARETTES
WHY CAMELS ARE THE BETTER CIGARETTE
Camels are made of the choicest tobaccos grown—cured and blended with expert care. Camels are mild and mellow. The taste
of Camels is smooth and satisfying. Camels are cool and refreshing. The fragrance of Camels is always pleasant, indoors or
out. They do not tire the taste nor leave any cigaretty after-taste.
© 1927 R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.
