HIGH POINT TRACK MEET HERE TO-DAY FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DON’T FORGET MOTHER'S DAY

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 9, 1929 No. 28

OUTSTANDING MEN ARE SELECTED FOR HONORARY DEGREES

Six Men Signally Honored by Board of Trustees

D. D. IN THE MAJORITY

Distinguished Graduates of Davidson and Other Schools to Receive Recognition from College at Commencement

At their last meeting, the trustees of Davidson College voted to confer honorary degrees on six men—four of them ministers, one an educator, and one an engineer. The preachers are: Rev. J. H. Grey, Rev. R. T. Coit, Rev. A. R. McQueen, Rev. H. A. Love. The degree of Doctor of Divinity will be conferred upon each of the above, while Doctor of Pedagogy will be conferred on Mr. S. H. Cook, and Doctor of Science on Mr. W. S. Lee.

Rev. J. H. Grey, a brother of Dr. W. R. Grey, of Davidson College, is pastor of the Bedford Presbyterian Church in Bedford, Va. He graduated from Davidson in 1893. Also a graduate of Davidson in the class of ’02, Rev. R. T. Coit, a missionary to Korea, where he has served for seventeen years as an itinerant evangelist. The degree will be conferred on him in his absence, since he is now on the field.

Rev. A. R. McQueen, alumnus of Davidson, ’03, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Dunn, N. C. He is prominent in Fayetteville Presbytery, of which he has been moderator, and he is a conservative religious thinker.

Rev. H. A. Love, a graduate of the University of Florida, is now President of Palmer College in DeFuniak Springs, Fla. Mr. Love trained himself to be a banker and spent several years at banking. At one time he was mayor of his city, but gave up his work to enter the ministry, taking his theological training at Union Theological Seminary at Richmond. He has been president of Palmer College for four years.

Mr. S. H. Cook graduated from Davidson in 1909, since which time he has been working for a number of years at the Berry Schools at Mt. Berry, Ga., where he is now dean. The Berry Schools are a combination (Continued on page 4)

WHITTLE ELECTED AS HEAD OF COURT

Recently, the Court of Control for next year was appointed after a conference of the senior members of the Student Council. The duties of this court are to make the College traditions known to the Freshmen, to see that these are upheld by the Freshmen, and to control the Freshmen in any other way necessary.

Heath Whittle, a member of this year’s court, was appointed judge of the court and seven other men, members of next year’s student body, were appointed to act with him on the Court. The Court is composed of a judge, three members from the rising Seniors, and two members from each of the rising Sophomore and Junior classes. The following men were appointed to the court: A. H. Whittle, Judge, L. L. Boyd, W. R. Hill, A. M. Warren, C. A. Sisson, A. R. Jackson, J. D. McFadyen, J. R. Bradshaw.

Following are the names of the members of the retiring Court which has completed a very successful year: C. R. Lake, Judge; W. M. Regen, H. A. Knox, and T. E. Hill, Seniors; A. H. Whittle and L. A. Mills, Juniors; and D. Rusk and H. S. Covington, Sophomores.

Publications Board Has Been Selected

At a recent student body election, Z. V. Long, E. L. Roberson, and W. R. Hill were voted members of the Publications Board for 1929-30. The nominees were the editors and business managers of the three publications. The nominees were Z. V. Long, C. M. Pratt, R. F. Jarrat, E. H. McCall, W. R. Hill, and E. L. Roberson. On the first ballot, Long was elected and Pratt and McCall were eliminated. This left it between Roberson, Hill, and Jarrat. On the second ballot, Roberson and Hill were elected.

The retiring President of the Board is W. L. Dumas. The other members were J. R. Covington, and A. N. Brown.

Pay Fees By May 10

Every student must have his registration fee of $10.00 paid on or before May 10th to hold his place in college next year. The payment of this fee entitles a student to hold the room he is now occupying. The R. O. T. C. deposit which has been made by the student taking the basic course can be used for this purpose. Any loss or shortage must be paid in cash at the time the equipment is checked in.

NORRIS TROPHY TO BE AWARDED SOON

Most Outstanding Athlete Elected by Student Body

The Norris Athletic Trophy for the year 1928-29 was placed on display Tuesday for the inspection of the Student Body. This beautiful cup will be awarded at commencement to the man who has most distinguished himself during the season of 1928-29 along athletic lines. In addition to the approval of the Student Body, before which tribunal all candidates will go for ratification, the winner must have made an average of seventy-five on all academic work. This award is made annually and is a highly coveted honor among athletes.

The “D” Club will meet this week for the purpose of nominating candidates for the honor. Six names will be placed before the student body to be voted upon. Failure to receive a nomination, however, does not bar anyone from competition, as votes may be cast for athletes other than the six nominees. The opinion of the “D” Club is merely offered as a guide to the feeling of the student body. The three men receiving the highest number of votes in the preliminary balloting will compete in the final election, and votes may be cast for none other than the three selected. A majority of the votes cast will be necessary to determine the winner. The preliminary vote is to be run off some time this week and the final ballot will come about ten days later.

H. S. Davidson Finds Diacetyle in Paper

H. S. Davidson, in connection with his Honors Course, has been working this year on the distillation product of cellulose. He has succeeded in separating and identifying in the distillation products of common newspapers a very interesting and rare substance called diacetyl. One of the features of this substance is that it can be used in making dimethyl glyoxime, the best reagent for quantitative determinations of nickel. This reagent costs $25.00 per pound. If diacetyl can be made in even moderate quantities from newspapers, it may result in lowering the cost of this expensive reagent. The nickel compound was made with the glyoxime prepared from the diacetyl obtained and on analysis was shown to be identical with the nickel compound made with a pure sample of glyoxime in the laboratory. Mr. Davidson will read a paper before the North Carolina Academy of Science that meets in Greensboro on May 10-11, presenting the results of his investigation.

MEMORIAL TO BE ERECTED TO DUKE

The Trustees of the Duke Endowment have decided to establish some suitable type of memorial as a tribute to Mr. J. B. Duke because of his munificent contributions to human welfare. Much good has been done throughout the whole country by Mr. Duke’s generosity. The members of the Board are subscribing wholeheartedly toward the memorial fund and are inviting every person connected with any institution or organization which was included in Mr. Duke’s foundation to have a share in establishing this memorial. The officers, faculty, and students of Davidson College have received an invitation to have a part in this tribute to the great philanthropist.

SEVERAL MEDALS TO BE PRESENTED

Feature of Commencement Program

Each year at commencement exercises, several medals are awarded. On June 4 and 5, the following medals will be awarded:

The Senior Orator’s Medal, often called the Faculty Medal, will be presented to that Senior who is judged the best orator of his class. It is made of gold, about the size of a half-dollar, and is designed on the order of the college seal. It is the handsomest, and by far the most expensive medal given. This medal was not presented last year, since no oration was delivered.

The Junior Orator’s Medal will be given by the Literary Societies. It is a gold, hexagon-shaped medal, of the same design as it has been for the past six or seven years. W. L. Dumas won this medal last year, and F. D. Miller was the winner this year.

The Freshman-Sophomore Orator’s Medal will be presented to J. S. W. Hartsell. It is similar to the Junior Orator’s Medal, only of bronze. This medal was won last year by R. S. Overman. All contestants can be assured that they will get some token other than an empty box as was the case last year. Through the influence of Mr. Jackson, the winners have been traced, and medals given them.

The Alumni Association, by an endowment fund provided by a former president of the association, will give a medal to that member of the Freshman class who has made the highest average. W. C. Ragin won this medal last year.

The William Banks Biblical Medal will be given to that member of the graduating class who makes the highest average in Bible for four years. D. H. Howard, Jr., was last year’s winner of this medal.

The Alumni Debating cup, which was not awarded last year, will be presented to the literary society winning in an inter-society debate.

Y. M. C. A. TO USE ADDITIONAL ROOMS

Present “Y” Quarters to be Used as Social Center

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. will next year occupy the tower floor of the Eumenean Society Hall in addition to its present location in the Philanthropic Hall. This decision was brought about by the obvious lack of building facilities felt by this organization during the past few years. Plans are to have the new quarters and arrangements ready for use by the opening of the college next fall, although some of the plans are as yet undecided.

The rooms in the Phi Hall which now constitute the “Y” quarters will next year be at the disposal of the student body as a social center. The Y. M. C. A. plans for this hall to be open particularly to the mothers and families of the students when they visit the campus. More space in this building will be given over to Ping-pong, checkers, and other indoor games that have proved so popular this year.

Negotiations are now under way to have the proper changes made in the rooms of the Eu Hall, so that they will best serve the purpose of the “Y.” The back room of this hall will be furnished with rugs, draperies, as well as whatever furniture may be needed, and will be used as a parlor and meeting place for any campus organization that wishes to use it. There are also plans, although somewhat tentative, to change the small room, which now is used as an office for the director of music, into a kitchenette. This plan, if carried through, will be an additional advance in the “Y” social service program.

Another one of the new features to be introduced by the Y. M. C. A. will be a daily get-together meeting which the “Y” hopes to have installed this coming year. For this purpose, the front room of the Eu Hall will be used. Plans are to have this social gathering each evening, following the supper hour.

Davidson Professor and Wife Visit ManyCountries in East

The following is a letter recently received by Miss Cornelia Shaw from Dr. T. W. Lingle, who is now traveling in the East.

“We had a fine voyage in the best of weather, spent 36 days in Egypt, 12 in Palestine, 4 in Beyrouth, then to Damascus for the night and an early start across the desert 540 miles to Bagdad. We arrived only two days ago but already feel quite at home. One of the features of the whole trip has been meeting the missionaries and other interesting people. The missionaries know far more about the country, people, and interesting places than do any of the tourist agencies, and they have been of the greatest assistance to us. We try to show our appreciation as best we can. After one day at Hotel Maude we moved to the home of Rev. and Mrs. Barny, of the Reformed Church in America, feeling that we would rather give them our money than give it to the hotel, enjoy their fellowship, and enjoy the cleanliness of their home. Remember, we are in the East now, where hotel standards fall below the European.

This morning a young Scotchman named Somerville, who is in the department of education of Iraq, took us in his car to see the wonderful arts of Ctesiphon of which I have read so long. It was a great show. This is Friday. We stay here over Sunday, then to the Babylon region for a day, and a necessary stop of a day for Ur, then to Basrah where good friends are expecting us. From there we take a boat to Bushire on the Persian coast, take the air over the mountains to Shiraz to see Persepolis, Passagardae, the tomb of Cyrus, and the tombs of the other great Persian emperors. Of course, we shall look at rugs there, though we may not have any money with which to buy. I understand that Shiraz and Ispahan are the two greatest centers of the Persian rug industry. By the way, we had to get inoculated against plague in order to get the Persian visa. We do not know just yet how these arms will turn out.

So far we have kept exceptionally well on the entire trip, save for Mrs. Lingle a few hours the latter part of the trip across the desert. It is getting warm here, and we shall press on as fast as convenient until we get to where it is cooler. The Tigris is at flood stage just now. Our window overhangs it and it is a great show. Euphrates was not quite so high when we crossed it.

We return to Damascus, Beralbech, and Aleppo and Smyra.”

Mrs. Dr. Lingle Sends Letter Citing Incidents Of Trip

Faculty Completed For Summer School

“The faculty for the second summer school session of Davidson College has been selected, applications are being accepted daily, and many inquiries are being received, some of them from points as far south as Florida,” said Prof. F. K. Fleagle, dean of the Davidson summer school, adding an optimistic statement by saying that he believed the enrollment would be almost doubled. The session starts June 10 and concludes on July 19—a six weeks’ course.

Professors selected and the subjects they will teach are Dr. J. L. Douglas, mathematics; Dr. C. M. Richards, Bible; Prof. L. B. Henderson, education and sociology; Prof. E. J. Erwin, English; Prof. A. Currie, political science; Prof. F. K. Fleagle, Spanish; Miss Mamie Eppes, primary work, and Miss Estelle Rawls, grammar school work. Prof. Fleagle stated that one of the features next session will be the demonstration classes conducted by Misses Eppes and Rawls, which will give the primary and grammar grade teachers enrolled an opportunity to observe and teach under experienced directors. These courses can be used in qualifying for higher grade certificates. The Davidson dean added that other courses than the above would be given when as many as ten applications were received for any subject. There seems to be a demand for a course in Greek, said Mr. Fleagle, and if this subject is taught Davidson will be one of the few summer schools offering a course in Greek.

J. E. Gluck To Speak

Tonight at 7:30 o'clock, Mr. J. E. Gluck, chief engineer for WBT, broadcasting station at Charlotte, will speak to the students of Davidson on the subject of “Radio.” Mr. Gluck comes to Davidson at the instigation of Sigma Pi Sigma, national Physics Fraternity, and the Radio Club of Davidson. The lecture is scheduled to take place in Shearer Hall. It is sure to be intensely interesting for all.

New Pan-Hellenic Council Is Chosen

Orr and McGavock Made Officers of Frat Organization

Men who took up their duties last week as members of the new Pan-Hellenic Council, the organization for the regulation of inter-fraternity relationships include the following men: Charlie Orr, Kappa Sigma; W. G. McGavock, Kappa Alpha; Dan Goodykoontz, Phi Delta Theta; H. E. Russell, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Murray Christian, Phi Gamma Delta; E. B. Kugler, Phi Kappa Phi; J. L. McNair, Pi Kappa Alpha; Robert Gilliam, Beta Theta Pi; Dave Anderson, Theta Upsilon Omega. At the meeting of the Council last Friday night, Charlie Orr was elected president and Bill McGavock secretary and treasurer to succeed, respectively, Mac King and Lawrence Kirkland. The new Council had a long discussion over next year’s rushing season. The Council is in favor of a longer season for the rushing of Freshmen. It seems to think that in so short a time as the frats were allowed this year, the members of the different groups hardly have time to consider their prospective freshmen.

Orr has many honors on the campus, he is a member of the jazz orchestra and is very prominent in Y. M. C. A. work. McGavock is an outstanding man in his class, having been elected secretary and treasurer of next year’s Senior Class and being a member of the track squad. He is also prominent in both literary and Y. M. C. A. work. According to the old customs the new council is to give the ex-councilmen a feed. The date of the feed is as yet undecided, but is planned for the near future. The new officers are very capable men and a very successful year is expected.

Dr. Sentelle Plans European Itinerary

Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Dean, and Professor of Bible, held his final examinations in Bible and Philosophy today in order that he might leave for New York, where he will debark for Europe on the seventeenth of May. He has been granted leave of absence by the College, but expects to be present at the opening of school next fall. Among other points in his itinerary, Dr. Sentelle plans to visit the Holy Land, Egypt, and other interesting places in the Far East. This is not the first time that he has been abroad. However, Dr. Sentelle stated that he expected to make a study of the changes in these countries, particularly as affected by the World War.

PROGRAM PLANNED FOR MOTHERS’ DAY

At the Mother's Day program of the local Y. M. C. A., which is to be held at Shearer Hall next Sunday evening, Mrs. A. B. Robson will be the speaker. Every five years a talk is made by her at these exercises. Mrs. Robson has been head nurse at the college infirmary for the past twenty years. She is not only the mother of two Davidson men but is a “mother,” in the true sense of the word, to every Davidson student. Her talks are most appealing and are of a kind that are not easily forgotten. It is the hope of the “Y” that this will be the biggest service of the year and that the student body will attend in large numbers. This is a treat that no student will enjoy but once while he is a student at Davidson, for Mrs. Robson’s talks are made very seldom.

TRACK TEAM WINS SECOND HONORS IN GREENSBORO MEET

Leftwich Puts Shot in Finals to Break College Record

CAROLINA WINS FIRST

Whittle, Gardner, and Brohard Take Four First Places—McCall Breaks School Record for Javelin

The Davidson Wildcats came out of the State Track meet in Greensboro last Saturday with second place tucked under their belts and plenty of glory. With John Currie, holder of state records in the 100 and 220 yard dashes, out of the competition, and with Kell and Neal likewise confined to the bench, the chances of the Cats to win a high place seemed slim, but the ten men who went into the finals for Davidson more than did their duty. 34.5 points fell to the flying heels and strong arms of the Wildcats. Carolina won the title for the eighth consecutive year by amassing 65.8 points. N. C. State was third with 28.5, while Duke and Wake Forest trailed with 28.3 and 11.9 respectively. Six state records fell as a result of the competition while a fourth was tied. A Davidson College record was lowered as Leftwich hurled the shot forty-three feet, one and one-eighth inches. Heath Whittle, stellar hurdler and sprinter tied with Gay of Carolina for high point honors of the meet. Whittle copped both hurdles in good time, and barely missed getting a place in the century dash. Joe Gardner tied with Roberts of Duke for first in the high jump, the height being 5 feet 8 inches. Brohard won the 440 yard dash with the time of 52 flat. McCall took fourth place in the javelin throw, breaking the school record with a distance of 169 feet, 4 inches.

Summary

100 yard dash: Gay, Carolina; Stout, State; J. K. Smith, Carolina; Kinsey, Wake Forest. Time 10 2-5 seconds.

220 yard dash: Gay, Carolina; Stout, State; Melton, State; Smith, Carolina; Kinsey, Wake Forest. Time 23 1-5 seconds (Smith and Kinsey tied for fourth place.)

440 yard dash: Brohard, Davidson; Garrett, Carolina; Oettinger, State; Harrison, Carolina. Time 52 seconds.

880 yard run: McGinn, State; Nims, Carolina; Woodward, Duke; Hammer, Carolina. Time 1:58 3-5 (new state record.)

One mile run: Woodward, Duke; Barkley, Carolina; Ashworth, Duke; Wrenn, Carolina. Time 4:32.

Two mile run: Simon, Duke; Doxey, Duke; Baucom, Carolina; Lowery, Carolina. Time 9:57.

120 yard hurdles: Whittle, Davidson; Perry, Carolina; George, Davidson; Stafford, Carolina. Time 15 4-5 seconds.

220 yard low hurdles: Whittle, Davidson; Stafford, Carolina; Perry, Carolina; George, Davidson. Time 25 2-5 seconds.

Pole vault: Cowper, Carolina, first 12 feet; Neiman, Carolina and Arnold, Carolina, tie for second, 11 feet 6 inches; Dry, Carolina; Turner, Duke and Jones, Wake Forest, tie for fourth, 11 feet.

Shot put: Leftwich, Davidson, 43 feet 1-8 inches; Brummit, Duke, 43 feet 1-4 inch; Patterson, State, 41 feet 5 3-4 inches; Adkins, Carolina, 40 feet 6 3-8 inches.

Broad jump: Kinsey, Wake Forest, 23 feet 1-2 inch; Neiman, Carolina, 22 feet 1-2 inch; Young, State, 21 feet 6 1-2 inches; Stafford, Carolina, 21 feet 5 1-2 inches. (New state record).

Javelin throw: Dupree, Wake Forest, 185 feet 3 inches (new state record); Young, State, 175 feet 3 inches; Edmonson, State, 171 feet 2 1-2 inches; McCall, Davidson, 169 feet 4 inches.

Discus: Harper, Carolina, 136 feet 3 inches (new state record); Dameron, Carolina, 123 feet 9 inches; Brummit, Duke, 121 feet 11 inches; Patterson, State, 118 feet 10 1-2 inches.

One mile relay: Carolina, State, Davidson and Duke. Time 3:2.

Freshman Relays: Sprint medley (440, 220, 880): North Carolina State first; Carolina second and Duke third. Time 3:41 4-5 (new state record). Distance medley (440, 880, 1320, mile): North Carolina State first; University of North Carolina second; Duke third. Time 11:2.