March 7, 1929. THE DAVIDSONIAN

TRACKMEN SWING INTO ACTION

CAT TRAX As They Follow the Red and Black By Zeb V. Long, Jr.

Interest for the past week has rightly been focused on the Southern Tournament in Atlanta. It was a great bunch of teams that started the scrap, and it was a great team that won. All three Tar Heel entries acquitted themselves in a manner calculated to bring admiration and praise to each team. Carolina used to be the whole noise, but the Red Terrors of N. C. State and the Duke Blue Devils showed that the Phantom’s days of absolute supremacy are ended. Washington and Lee faded from the picture in rather startling fashion, and local dopesters are having a hard time figuring it all out. The Generals must have gone stale all at once as the best of teams sometimes do. Must have been a tough pill for the Tar Heels when Duke slipped the works over them by doubling the count. Twice before the two quints had met, and twice the Blue and White of the Tars had waved triumphantly. Such is basketball.

Goodwin of State and Croson of Duke are conclusive proof of what a tall center can mean to a team. Davidson felt this lack on many occasions this season. Had lanky Ben Wilson been back in harness to throw his long body in the path of attempted shots and to get the top-off most of the time, there might have been a very different tale for the Wildcats. We pick Goodwin for our All-State center with a good deal of hesitation, for Croson is good and there’s no doubt on that point. Goodwin's longer service and slightly better all-around play wins for him, though, in our estimation.

Rainy weather has certainly played havoc with early track operations, more so this year than in previous seasons, it seems. The dash men were not in any sort of shape to participate in the big indoor meet at the University last Saturday, and as a result Davidson’s entrants were few in number. Again the need of an indoor gym large enough to accommodate a track and suitable basketball facilities arises. We look for Davidson’s track season to be better than usual. Captain Pritchett has worked wonders with some of his charges. If the seconds and thirds can be amassed with a little more regularity the Wildcats are due to ride. Duke frocked the Cats last year on places in the distance runs, but the Cats look better in this department now. Ely and Lafferty are looking mighty good for the mile and half-mile. The two-mile grind is a tough one to fill. Wonder if “Chief” Beavers and his running mate Rut Nunan are coming through? Joe Gardner's winning of the high jump over at Carolina looks encouraging. Of course, 5 ft. 7 in. isn’t so much, but the season is early and there’s no reason why quite a few inches may not be added to Mr. Gardner’s jump Saturday.

March 22 will usher in King Baseball and when that first ball sails over the plate the Wildcats are going after them from then on. Oak Ridge never fails to bring a cracking good nine to Davidson. They always have the pitchers somehow or other. Monk’s boys plastered the Cadet’s star out of the box last spring and won handily, but this time there will be the same hard battle. Oak Ridge is a prep school but their teams are worthy of many colleges.

University of Kentucky—(CNC)—At a meeting of the men’s study council recently, two men students at the University were tried for the violation of the liquor resolution passed recently by the council. The two men, both of whom were suspended from the university, were said to have been under the influence of liquor at the Stroller dance. Such a defense as “drinking in order to prevent catching the flu at the dance,” proved ineffective, according to members of the council who tried the case.

Davidsonian Picks All-State Quintet From Crop of Stars

Duke, U. N. C., N. C. State, and Davidson Represented on First String

STRONG FIVES

Two Teams Chosen From Fine Bunch of Stars—Hard Choice—Every Place Has Excellent Candidate

The Davidsonian’s All-State

Satterfield (U.N.C.) L. Forward
Councillor (Duke) R. Forward
Goodwin (N. C. State) Center
Werber (Duke) Left Guard
Goodson (Davidson) R. Guard

Honorable Mention: Pritchett (Davidson), Dowtin (Wake Forest), Croson (Duke), Hackney (U. N. C.), Warren (State).

In choosing an All-State team for the season of 1929, there is a distinct feeling of inadequacy. The state teams produced so many stars for every position that it is very difficult to pick a quint and do justice to every one of the deserving players. We offer two teams, one really as good as the other. On our second team we move Captain Hackney of Carolina to guard, a position he played at various times with much success. Aside from this change all the men fit into their places. Center offered two outstanding men in Goodwin and Croson, both giants in stature, demons on offense, and invaluable in stopping enemy shots. By virtue of longer service and slightly more consistent play Goodwin gets the first call. The forwards were the hardest problem. Satterfield, Councillor, Pritchett, and Dowtin have all been stars of the first water. The two former have probably been a little more consistent in their shooting than the two latter, though even that is a doubtful proposition. Werber has played spectacular and steady ball. He is a splendid shot and a beautiful floor man. Bill Goodson, playing his first season on the Davidson varsity has more than proved his worth, in estimation. He gives promise of being one of the real stars of the state in another year. Warren of State was very good, his floorwork being well-nigh perfect, and his guard-

Our Sophomore Pugs Win Boxing Tournament

Frosh Take Second Place, While Juniors and Seniors Trail

By placing winners in four classes and possibly a fifth which has not yet been decided, the Sophomore class won the boxing tournament Thursday, February 28, with the huge total of 55 points; the Freshmen came next with 25 points while the Juniors and Seniors showed themselves less pugnaciously inclined than the underclasses, registering 10 and 6 points, respectively. Gold medals were awarded to the winners in each division. No awards were given to the second place men except that the runner-up position brought six points to his class. Points for third and fourth place were divided rather than have another scrap over a few points. First place counted ten markers.

There were only two knock-outs in the evening; Overman won a technical k. o. over West.In the 120-pound division, while Nunan pummeled Harrison so that he was unable to return at the beginning of the third round. This was in the semi-final of the 149-pound class. In the unlimited class, it looked somewhat like David and Goliath, with Walt Fraley finally taking a decision from “Sporty” Regen. Results are as follows:

119-pound class—Corbett, Sophomore, first; Tompkins, Freshman, and Fain, Freshman, tied for second.
129-pound class—Overman, Sophomore, first; Johnson, Freshman, and West, Freshman, tied for second.
139-pound class—Russell, Junior, first; Morgan, Sophomore, and Carr, Freshman, tied for second.
In the 149-pound class, the finals are yet to be decided. Nunan defeated Harrison and is to meet Lowrance, who defeated Kerfoot.
160-pound class—Johnson, Sophomore, first; Bradshaw, Freshman, tied with Brock for second.
Unlimited class—Fraley, Sophomore, first; Regen, Senior, second.

...and ball handling of the highest order. As was said before, one of these teams might well be considered the first string, for as we see it, there is very little difference. This thing of picking All-State Teams is the bunk anyway. It’s a good way to run the sporting editor crazy.

What Constitutes A Call to the Ministry?
ANSWER NO. 9
The command of Jesus “Go into all the world and preach the gospel”.

How They Shot
Varsity Scoring
FG. FP. TP.
Pritchett (c) f. 59 61 179
Calhoun, f. 59 23 141
Johnston, c and g. 46 15 107
Russell, g. 39 15 93
Goodson, g. 12 4 28
Shepherd, f. 9 1 19
Moore, g. 5 5 15
Wilson, c and g. 1 1 3
Total 226 134 586

Individual Freshman Scoring
Player FG. FP. TP.
Hutaff 42 13 97
Milteh 42 10 94
Mathis 42 9 93
Rung 15 3 33
Brown 8 3 19
Arnold 8 4 10
Montgomery 2 1 5
Gilbert 1 1 3
Total 209 68 486

“Y” Cats Scoring
FG. FP. TP.
McGavock 31 12 74
Smethee 13 2 28
Gilmour 12 2 26
Overman 8 4 20
Shepherd 7 0 14
Munger 6 2 14
McCall 4 4 12
Martin 4 4 12
Crawford 2 0 4
Montgomery 1 1 3
Total 88 31 207

Mrs. Smythe—“I'm soliciting for a charity organization. What do you do with your cast-off clothing?”
Mr. Smith—“I hang them up carefully and then in the morning I put them on again.”—Pointer.

Wildcats Complete Strenuous Schedule
Younger’s Charges End Season With Better Than Even Break

With the State tilt last Saturday night, the Davidson Wildcats brought to a close a basketball season that, until the too strenuous schedule began to have its inevitable results, was crowned with much more than a fair degree of success. Although playing a cage schedule that included some of the leading basketball outfits in the south and not a real “set up” in the whole bunch, Coach Younger’s men came out of the fracas with more than an even break. Credit to the 'Cats.

The Wildcat courtmen, with practically all the material untried, got off to a comparatively slow start. In their first two appearances on the court, they were set back by both Carolina and Furman’s Purple Hurricane, but in romping over Lenoir Rhyne and Wofford in the following games, much improvement in form was shown. It was in drubbing the Monograms of Charlotte, however, that the Wildcats first began to be taken seriously. Coach Younger's zone defense was functioning to perfection, and the professional basketeers found themselves hopelessly outclassed by the local courtmen. This victory was quickly followed up by an even more pronounced win over the Virginia Tech team.

The Duke Blue Devils next invaded the local lair but, like V. P. I., were powerless to keep pace with the fast-stepping Wildcats. At this point, however, the aforementioned schedule came into play to stop the speedy 'Cats where opponents had failed. Six days of grind in Virginia with four big state games following right on its heels was more than the team could stand without effect. Facing these noticeable adverse conditions, the best that the Davidson five could accomplish on the Old Dominion journey was an even break. The following and last week proved the most disastrous of the Wildcat’s season as the worn-down aggregation succumbed before Duke, Carolina, and State on successive nights, meeting each on their own courts. As a result of this trio of setbacks, the Wildcats were forced to drop from second position in the Big Five rating to their ultimate standing in fourth place.

For the Freshmen basketeers, the early part of the season was marked by rather inconsistent form. In the later games, however, the Wildkittens came through with plenty of good basketball to finish a far from unsuccessful season. Although no other Big Five yearling outfit was encountered by Coach Tilson’s crew, comparative scores show the Wildkittens to have been well up in the realm of first-year quints in the state.

“Have you ever run a temperature?”
“No, but I’ve nearly driven every other kind of car.”

Teco Echo, Your Duty To Your Business.
The fire... the shutdown... directors meet... discuss loss of six months’ net profit... consider continuing expenses... Suddenly, a shrewd director asks... “Did we carry Business Interruption Insurance?”... questioning eyes fixed on you... If it is your duty to guard against such loss, we suggest you let us explain the benefits of Business Interruption Insurance. It's safer to have insurance—and not need it!

Independence Trust Company Insurance Department

Union Theological Seminary has helped many men to a happy and achieving life; perhaps we could help you.
Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia

Generating Brain Power
You will see this monogram on the powerful motors of an electric locomotive and on the convenience outlet where you plug in a floor lamp—always and everywhere it is a safe guide to electrical quality and dependability.

GENERAL ELECTRIC

Brain power, not horsepower, is the chief operating requirement of the electrical industry. This requirement must be continuously anticipated to provide leaders for the future. Accordingly, each year, more than 400 picked college graduates come to the General Electric Company for a post-graduate course in electrical science. With a faculty including inventors and engineers of international distinction, something more than electrical knowledge is imparted to these young men. Here they also find inspiration which prepares them for leadership in this electrical age.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK