2 X THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 7, 1929

Play-By-Play Report V. M. I. GAME

Biggs kicked off to McCall, but V. M. I. was offside and the ball was brought back, V. M. I.
kicking off from the thirty-five yard line. Biggs kicked off to McCall who returned 35 yards to his own 44
yard line. King lost a yard, but McCall gained it back. Fraley’s pass failed. Brock kicked to Hawkins, who returned
five yards to his own 14 yard line. Biggs got six yards around left end. Wright got three over center,
and hit the same place again for a first down on his 37 yard line. Hawkins got seven over guard
and Wright repeated with 2. Wright carried the ball again for four and made first down in midfield. Biggs was
stopped at end for only a yard, Hawkins and Wright got seven on two tries at center, and Wright kicked
to Davidson’s fifteen yard line, where Smith downed the ball. Fraley was stopped for no gain, and Brock kicked to
Hawkins on his 40 yard line. He returned it to Davidson's 44 yard line. Biggs got two over tackle. Biggs
passed to Hawkins for five yards, Fraley tackling the receiver as he caught the ball. Biggs passed again, this time
to Scott who was downed on Davidson's 12 yard line. Biggs was stopped, but Wright got five yards over right
guard. McCray got five more at the same spot, but barely missed a first down. Wright made the yardage. Wright
fumbled and Baker, Davidson tackle, recovered on his own five yard line. McCall spun over right tackle for 11 yards
and a first down. Parrish hit the same spot for three more. Brock kicked to Hawkins who returned five yards
to his forty-five yard line. Hawkins lost four yards, Wright gained one. Biggs’ pass failed. Hawkins kicked to Davidson's 12
yard line as the quarter ended.

Second Quarter

McCall got three, King was stopped for no gain. Brock kicked to Hawkins, who was downed on Davidson's forty yard
line. Biggs got only half a yard at tackle. McCray hit center for seven yards. He went over right tackle
for a first down on Davidson’s 27 yard line. Hawkins got two and gained four more on a fake. Biggs
made first down by inches over center. Biggs went around right end for five yards. He had no success at
the other end. Wright hit center for a first down on the five yard line. Wright got one yard through
center. Hawkins made a foot at tackle. Wright hit center for a touchdown. Scott’s placekick was no good. Score: V.
M. I. 6, Davidson 0. Biggs kicked over the goal line. Davidson has the ball on her own 20 yard
line. Parrish stopped for no gain around end. Parrish hits V. M. I. player and is ejected from the game.
Davidson penalized half distance to goal. Goodykoontz for Parrish. King got five yards around left end. McCall picked up five
more off tackle. Brock punts to V. M. I. 37 yard line. Hawkins picked up 18 yards and first down.
Time out for Davidson. Biggs got five around end. Wright got four more over right guard. Wright made its first
down on Davidson’s 31 yard line. Hawkins tried an end run and lost five yards, McCray forced out of bounds
for no gain. Scott’s pass broken up by King. Hawkins kicks and Scott downs the ball on Davidson’s 4 yard
line. Marklis for Haase. Brock punts poorly for 25 yards, Biggs passes 6 yards to Hawkins. McCray goes over tackle
for first down on Davidson’s 15 yard line. Wright got 7 more at the same spot. Mills for Mathis. Wright
tried left tackle for two yards. McCray made it first down on Davidson’s four yard line. McCray goes over left
guard for touchdown. McCray tried a line buck for extra point, but failed, V. M. I. 12; Davidson 0. Parker
for DeCamp. Gregory for Scott. Grow for Gravatte. Laughorn for Hawkins. Biggs kicked to McCall on Davidson’s 10 yard line.
He returned to his 45 yard line. Fraley got four yards over right tackle. Willard for Marklis. D. Bradshaw for
King. Davidson attempted a pass, but it was fumbled, and Laughorn recovered on Davidson's 37 yard line. Laughorn passed to
Palmer for 11 yards as the half ended. V. M. I. 12; Davidson 0.

Third Quarter

Chapman for V. Grow. Biggs kicked to McCall on Davidson’s 10 yard line. He returned to his own 40 yard
line. Hawkins and Scott are back in lineup. Fraley made four over tackle. Brock’s pass failed. McCall got only one
yard. Brock kicks to Hawkins who returns 10 yards to his own 30 yard line. Biggs passes to Scott for
26 yards. Hawkins got three yards around end. Hawkins got three more through the line. Biggs’ pass is grounded. McCall
interfered with receiver and pass goes as completed. V. M. I’s ball on Davidson’s 29 yard line. McCray hits right
guard for five yards. McCray was stopped for no gain. McCray goes over left tackle for 4 yards. McCray made
first down by inches. McCray lost a yard and Biggs got nothing. McCray hit tackle for six yards. A lateral
pass from Biggs to Hawkins gained only four yards, and the ball went over on the one yard line. Brock
kicked to Hawkins on Davidson’s 27 yard line, making a fair catch. Biggs lost two on a fumble. A double
pass lost four more. Time out for V. M. I. Biggs faked a pass and gained five yards. Scott’s place
kick for a field goal from the 35 yard line was short. Davidson’s ball on her own 20 yard line.
McCall got four yards throughCenter and King got another. Brock faked a kick and ran with the ball, making it
first down. Fraley got four through center. Brock passed to McCall for 27 yards and a first down on V.M.I.’s
38-yard line. Grow for Chapman. Fraley gets no gain. King got one. Hawkins intercepted a pass on his own 15-yard
line and returned 10 yards. Biggs got four yards around the right end. McCray was run out of bounds for
no gain. McCray kicked to McCall who was downed in his tracks. The ball is on the 25-yard line. McCall
got a yard over left tackle. Fraley got five more. Brock passed to McCall for 15 yards. McCall received the
pass, dodged four or five V.M.I. men, and dashed 55 yards for a touchdown. Brock missed his second goal in
nine attempts. Quarter ended. Score V.M.I. 12, Davidson 6.

Fourth Quarter
Hawkins received and returned to his own 35-yard line. Three plays gained only five yards. Willard for Smith. Biggs passed
to Hawkins for 35 yards, placing the ball on Davidson’s 30-yard line. Biggs got four, then McCray made it first
down. Mills for DeCamp. Hawkins thrown for a five-yard loss. Biggs passes to Scott and to Palmer were both missed
by receivers. Biggs’ pass to Scott went over the goal line. Davidson’s ball on her own 20-yard line. McCall hurt
as he gets no gain. Brock passes 35 yards to Goodykoontz. Brock passes again to Goodykoontz for 25 yards and
first down on V.M.I. 40-yard line. Fraley passes to King for 6 yards. Goodykoontz missed a pass from Brock. Hawkins
knocks down Brock’s pass and the ball goes over. Hawkins went eight yards around the end. McCray got first down
on his own 9-yard line. Biggs got only two yards at the end. Davidson penalized five yards for offside. Biggs
for four yards at right tackle. Bailey got two through center. McCray got three more. Biggs’ pass was blocked and
it was Davidson’s ball on her own 36-yard line. King thrown for a yard loss. Brock passed to Bradshaw for
a first down on V.M.I. 46-yard line. Gregory intercepted Fraley’s pass on his 40-yard line. Holtclaw lost a yard. Hawkins
got five around the end. Hawkins kicked and Marquis downed the ball on Davidson’s 24-yard line. King lost five yards.
Brock’s pass was no good. Biggs intercepted a pass on Davidson's 44-yard line and the game ended. Final score, V.M.I.
12, Davidson 6.

“Did you fill your date last night?”
“I hope so, she ate everything in sight.”

All Davidson Radio Program Next Week
Arrangements have been made for the annual Davidson College broadcast over Station WBT, which has been under the auspices of
the alumni association of the college for the past two years. Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, '06, former president of the
alumni organization and a present member of the alumni council, obtained a date from the manager, and plans are being
made at Davidson to give a splendid half-hour program. Officials of the station have allotted a half-hour to Davidson, from
7 to 7:30 p.m., Thursday night, November 14. This is two days before the Home-Coming Day celebration, and the events
that are to mark the entertainment of the alumni on November 16 will be the principal theme of the program.
Prof. Archibald Currie, member of the Davidson faculty and familiar to most of the Davidson alumni, will again speak for
a few minutes, extending a cordial invitation to former students of the college to pay a visit to their Alma
Mater. Prof. Currie spoke last fall, and his talk was well received. Some alumni testified that hearing his voice brought
them back to the campus. The Davidson Glee Club, and the Sunnyland Serenaders, the orchestra of the club, will make
up the remainder of the broadcast. It is planned to have the Glee Club open with “College Ties,” and render
two other selections during the half-hour. The orchestra will be prepared to play four or five numbers, and both of
these units will be ably trained to give radio listeners an entertaining thirty minutes.

Class Basketball Lead Copped By Senior Five
In the second round of the Class Basketball Tournament last week, the Seniors stepped out in front with two victories
and no defeats by downing the Juniors, 54-12. Calhoun led the Senior scoring with 18 points, while Smith was the
high-scorer for the Juniors, with 8 points. The Freshmen pulled up into the .500 class by a 15-14 victory over
the Sophomores. Honors in the attack were divided between Rogers of the Fresh and Martin of the Sophs, each getting
nine tallies. Lineups and scores were as follows:

Seniors (54) Juniors (12)
Moore (14) ---------------- Shepherd (4) F
McGavock (16) ------------- Corbett F
Calhoun (18) --------------- Wilson C
Heath ---------------------- Hoge G
Miller (6) ------------------ Smith (8) G
Marks: Caldwell, Armfield.

Freshmen (15) Sophomore (14)
Rogers (9) ----------------- Montgomery (1) F
Hartsell -------------------- Martin (9) F
Betts (2) ------------------- McGehee (4) C
Boughn --------------------- Curtis G
Baughan (4) ---------------- Patrick G

Potts: "In making a kick, it’s DISTANCE. In a cigarette, it’s TASTE."

"Do one thing, and do it well." In making cigarettes, choose the one thing that counts—good taste—and give full measure!
From start to finish, that’s the Chesterfield story. Good tobaccos, skillfully blended and cross-blended, the standard Chesterfield method, appetizing flavor,
rich fragrance, wholesome satisfying character— "TASTE above everything."

© 1929, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

MILD... and yet THEY SATISFY

Chesterfield
FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobaccos, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED
