MOMENT’S insight is sometimes worth a life’s experience. —O. W. HOLMES.

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“THE RIVALS” MITCHELL DRAMATIC CLUB FRIDAY NIGHT

Vol. XVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 14, 1929 No. 17

SPORTS CONTESTS BETWEEN CLASSES ATTRACT INTEREST

New Form of Inter-Class Contests to be Carried on Sponsored by College

Competition in Fall and Spring Track, Boxing, Volley Ball, Basketball, and Baseball to be Offered

The spirit of Davidson College comes from its four classes. Knowing this, the college authorities are endeavoring to install a new form of inter-class competition which includes a great variety of sports. In order to do this, the authorities are depending upon the spirit of each class to make the movement a success, and the class which defeats the teams of its three rivals receives a loving cup with the class numeral engraved upon it.

The six branches of sport open to class competition are: Fall track, boxing, volley-ball, Spring track meet, basketball, and baseball. The first of these is already in inter-class competition. Basketball as played by the classes has become a success because of the interest it has aroused. The cup is to be presented to the class which has the highest average of points won in the total number of sports of the six which are open to class competition. The plan prevents any class from winning on account of its superiority in one branch of athletics. Thus, the chance of winning is evenly divided among the four classes.

Boxing, a new thing at Davidson, is rapidly drawing the interest of the classes and each now has its representatives in training for the coming tournament. Volley-ball, hitherto an unknown sport at Davidson, has rapidly become popular. The Spring track meet will come at the regular time for the Varsity track season and can very easily be arranged. Baseball is a very popular sport and is drawing many, as is witnessed by those who go out every afternoon. This class competition is going far towards promoting athletics here at Davidson and is being entered into with a great deal of spirit.

MICHENOT SPEAKS ON FRENCH AUTHOR

French Scholar Addresses Crowd of Students in Shearer Hall

Speaking in French to a rather large gathering of students in Shearer Hall Monday night, M. Daniel Michenot, French scholar and lecturer, gave an interesting address on the subject “Un Romantique Moderne: Edmond Rostand.” M. Michenot developed this topic by reviewing rather briefly the life and works of the eminent French playwright and poet, Rostand, and by then reading a number of outstanding selections from his writings. Among these were “Le Grand Nez” and “Non Merci” from Cyrano de Bergerac, a selection from “Chanticleer,” and a poem by Rostand.

M. Michenot is a lecturer of the Alliance Francaise, and it was through arrangement with this group by the local chapter of Le Cercle Francais and the faculty committee on lectures that he was brought to Davidson. M. Michenot, who has made lecture tours through Switzerland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Holland, and Canada, is now on his second similar trip through the United States. M. Michenot brought with him a message of friendship to the American people from Georges Clemenceau of whom he is a personal friend.

Dr. G. B. Watts, of the French Department of the college, made a few introductory remarks in French before M. Michenot spoke. C. J. Albright, President of the Cercle Francais, presented the speaker.

Basketball Sweaters

From funds received by the contributions from student attendants at the Davidson-Duke basketball game on last Thursday night, sweaters will be bought for the basketball team this year. This followed a motion made by John Currie and accepted by the student body at chapel Thursday morning.

WALKER HEARD AT VESPER SERVICE

Pastor of State College Presbyterian Church Talks to Students

“Christianity calls for more than moments of emotional uplift,” said Rev. Joseph Walker, pastor of State College Church in Raleigh, and graduate of Davidson College in addressing the students at Y. M. C. A. Vespers last Sunday night. “It calls for a more constant love that will make you do His will.”

Mr. Walker took as his text the last chapter of John where is depicted the story of the miraculous draught of fish and especially Jesus’ subsequent conversation with Peter where He thrice asked whether he loved Him. Here are observed by an eye-witness the finest details—even the number of fish, one hundred and fifty-three. The high hopes of the disciples had been crushed by Christ's death. Jesus had promised them a great mission but they didn't know what it was. At this moment when the problem proved too great for them, Peter, the leader, said that he was going fishing and the others followed him. “There is no more human touch in the Bible than this, when the disciples facing a blank wall turned to fishing,” said Mr. Walker. You can imagine how Peter felt when he recognized his Master on the shore in the morning when you consider that he had no opportunity to confess his sin of denial. Impetuously he dove in the water and swam to shore. No man knows what passed between Peter and Jesus then, but Peter must have confessed and received forgiveness.

After breakfast it must have seemed to Peter that Jesus was re-opening his wound when He asked whether he loved Him more than the others. The secret of this passage lies in the different words for love used by Jesus and Peter in the Greek. The word used by Jesus implies more nearly “Do you hold me in a deep and abiding regard?” The word that Peter used refers more to an emotional love. In His last question Jesus uses Peter’s own word. The lesson that Jesus was trying to drive home was evidently that what He wanted was love that would make a man “Feed my sheep.” Peter probably thought that his emotional love was better than that constant love that Jesus was asking of him, just as a young married couple think that their own more demonstrative emotion is deeper than that felt by an aged couple who have faced together for years life’s sorrows and joys. Later Peter came to realize this and by his life came to deserve his name Peter—rock. What Jesus wants of us is this same sort of love that will make us do His work no matter how we feel. In all walks of life men can carry the knowledge of Christ to others and offer themselves as faithful and earnest workmen in the work of the Church which sadly needs men who don’t have to stop work as soon as they forget the last sermon.

Dramatic Club May Take Trip in Spring

Meacham, Manager, Will Have Charge of Making Arrangements

At a meeting of the Dramatic Club on Saturday it was decided that Stewart Meacham, manager, should attempt to secure engagements for a proposed trip. Including the play, “Uncle Tommy's Harem,” which was given on Tuesday night, the Club has shown three plays this school year. The cast of this latest comical farce included Sam Smith, Bill McKnight, H. S. Goodwin and Steve White. “A Night in an Inn,” a fantastical tragedy will be shown at the next meeting. The club is producing at its meeting plays, primarily for the experience, but the members try to polish up their parts before going on the stage, and the productions should be enjoyed by the students. There is no admission to the club meetings.

On the night of Friday, February 22, of Senior week-end the club is planning to put on a program. John C. McNeely, a prominent member of the club returned to school this semester. Other prominent members of the club are John Preston, president, Sam Smith and Alec Warren.

MUSIC AND FOLKS SUBJECT OF TALK BY EDWIN STECKEL

Connection Between the Classics and Modern Jazz Explained

HUMOROUS SPEAKER

Many Selections From Old Classics Given during the Course of the Program Illustrating Statements

Edwin M. Steckel, of Gastonia, presented a lecture-recital in the gymnasium Monday night. A fairly large crowd attended the presentation. The theme of Mr. Steckel’s program was the relation of the ancient classics to modern jazz music. The title was “Music and Folks.” To facilitate his work the lecture was given in the gym in preference to Shearer Hall. Mr. Steckel carried his own piano. His lecture was interspersed with piano pieces, Steckel illustrating his points, showing how many of the modern song hits were based upon classical compositions.

The lecture-recital was very humorous, Mr. Steckel giving many amusing speeches, stories, and anecdotes. Wisecracks also were featured in his program. Illustrating his statements, Steckel showed how one of the more popular modern pieces was formed from a conglomeration of different parts of old standard songs, combining opera, light opera, and old melodies. Another way that the song writers of today use, is to take some of the full chords found in a classic and using that chord as the theme notes of some composition of their own. Mr. Steckel said that a number of recent compositions were based upon the melodies of the classics. During the course of the program, the following selections were given, showing how jazz songs were taken from classical music. The selections were played on a Duo-Art reproducing player piano. The Music Box, played by Ethel Leginska; Unfinished Symphony, by Albert Stoessel; Fantasie Impromptu (Op. 66), by Harold Bauer.

Seniors Have Large Turnout for Smoker

Class Goes on Record as Opposed to Yelling “Fire”

At a feed held by the senior class on Wednesday night, February 6, C. R. Lake made a motion advocating that the senior class go on record as being definitely opposed to the whistling and yelling “fire” which is so prevalent when girls appear on the campus. The motion quickly passed.

The feed which was held at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel was attended by about eighty-five or ninety members of the class. The purpose of the party was two-fold—first, to provide a medium through which the members of the class might gain a closer feeling of fellowship; and second, to discuss matters pertinent to the general good of college and class. Following the blessing which was asked by Craig Frye, the men enjoyed a sumptuous feed. During the meal the guests were most agreeably entertained with music furnished by the Jazz Orchestra. Just after the spread the whole gathering joined in singing, “Oh Davidson” and brought the social part of the meeting to a close.

Following the feed the class went into a general discussion at which time several important matters were brought up. M. T. Gilmour, president of the class, complimented it for its success and urged that it continue its good work. At this juncture Lake made his motion and went on to say that such behavior was more in keeping with that of prep schools than with that of gentlemen and students of Davidson College. Lake expressed the opinion that if this action was taken by the senior class the other classes would follow their precedent. Later a discussion about the senior party was held. E. R. McConnell, R. R. Kane, H. A. Knox, G. H. Green, S. L. Black and others expressed their approval of the party and urged that the seniors take advantage of it and make it a success. The program of the party was read by M. T. Gilmour, who asked for a show of hands as to the number of girls who were coming up for the social event.Closed with “College Ties,” which was sung by the entire gathering... Leaders In Many Fields Will Present Lectures In Vocational Guidance

FRENCH CLUB HAS INITIATION FEB. 4
Ceremony Held at Home of Professor G. B. Watts

On the evening of Monday, February 4, at 8:30 o'clock, Le Cercle Français held its initiation ceremonies at the home of Dr. G. B. Watts. This program had been arranged for the evening of December 14th, but it was postponed because of the early date at which college closed before the Christmas holidays. There were entertaining numbers on the program; Mrs. Cullum sang several French songs. A short one-act comedy, “Service D’Ami,” was enacted by J. E. Gardner, M. J. Kennedy, E. E. Marsh, W. C. Ragin, and Dean Rusk. A. N. Halverstadt was the general manager of the performance. The remaining pledges were then called on for short speeches in French. After this, refreshments were served, and a social hour was enjoyed. Many of the members, both active and honorary, were present. Plans were discussed for the rest of the year, and it was decided to attempt to bring outstanding speakers to Davidson to address the local Cercle.

The officers of this organization are C. J. Albright, Francis Ghigo, and C. N. Lanier. The new members are: J. F. Preston, S. S. Wiley, F. R. Brown, W. C. Ragin, R. M. Christian, R. Johnston, M. T. Gilmour, M. J. Kennedy, D. K. Miller, M. J. Love, J. E. Gardner, D. Rusk, E. E. Marsh.

Mitchell Actresses To Present Comedy
Dramatic Club to Present “The Rivals” in Shearer Hall

On Friday night, February 15, the Mitchell College Dramatic Club will present in Shearer Hall a well-known dramatic comedy, “The Rivals.” This play, written in the eighteenth century by Sheridan, has long been considered a masterpiece of its kind. This visit of the Mitchell Girls to the campus is being sponsored by the Junior Class. An admission of twenty-five cents will be charged with no reserved seats. The play has been presented in Statesville and other nearby cities and it has been received most favorably. In no place has it failed to meet with the approval of the audience. It is certain to provide interesting and instructive entertainment for the members of the student body. The play was directed by Miss Mary Eliason, Director of Dramatics at Mitchell.

Wildcats Win First Two Games on Trip
Defeat Guilford and V. P. I. in Fast Games

Winning the first two games of the northern trip, the Wildcats defeated Guilford and V. P. I. to get off to a flying start. Monday night the Wildcats engaged the Guilford Quakers and defeated them in a fast game 25 to 12. The Cats were in the lead most of the game, but during the first half the Quakers fought them almost to a standstill. As the second half opened, the Cats forged ahead to take a large lead and were never seriously threatened. The score at the half was 13 to 10 in favor of Davidson. Rusk played a good game and was high point man with ten points. D. Alley, of Guilford, was next in line with six points, tying with Pritchett of Davidson.

In their second game of the trip with the V. P. I. Gobblers, the Wildcats emerged victorious by the score of 41 to 19, for the second straight time more than doubling the score of the opponents. The game was featured by the close guarding of the Davidson guards and the irresistible rush of the Wildcats. During the first half of the game, the Cats held the Tech Gobblers to six points while they collected twenty-one. In the last part of the game, the Techmen rallied and put up a game fight but the Wildcats were never in danger of losing the lead. For Davidson and for the game, Pritchett (Continued on page 4).

Mr. Paul Whitlock, Lawyer, of Charlotte, to Begin Institute
BEGIN ON FEBRUARY 26
Interviews to be granted Interested Students Following Custom of Past Years

The Vocational Guidance series of lectures and interviews will begin on February 26. On this date, Mr. Paul Whitlock, a young attorney of Charlotte, will have interviews in the afternoon with those interested in law and that night will talk in Shearer on Law as a Life's Calling. On February 28, at 7 p.m. in Shearer, Dr. Addison Brenizer will speak on Medicine as a Life’s Calling. All the next day he will be here for interviews with those interested in medicine. Lectures and interviews on Business have been arranged for March 3-9. On March 5, D. H. McCullough of Todd-McCullough & Co., C. P. A. of Charlotte, will speak on Accounting. On March 6th or 8th, David Ovens of Ivey’s Department Store will present Business as a Life’s Calling. Due to a conflict with a varsity debating meet, a definite date has not been decided upon. On March 7th, J. H. Carson, of Charlotte, will speak on Real Estate. Mr. J. P. Quarles, of the Equitable Life Insurance Society, will speak on Insurance as a Life’s Work. Interviews will be arranged on March 12th for those interested in Education with T. W. Andrews, Superintendent of City Schools, High Point, N.C. That night in Shearer, he will talk on Education as a Life’s Calling. From March 19-21, the following vocations will be presented: Textile Manufacturing, Engineering, and Chemistry. Men prominent in these fields have been written to come here for discussions and talks but nothing definite has been accomplished as yet.

It is very probable that Dr. Charles Myers, of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, will be here to present Ministry as a Life's Work on March 26 and 27. He will remain over one day for interviews with those interested. Catalogues from various graduate schools covering the vocations named above have been ordered and will be placed on display at the “Y” room on the days of the vocation they cover. Some of the leading men in various vocations have been written to for articles on their respective work and these will be published in the Davidsonian. It is the plan of the Vocational Guidance Committee to have every man on the campus visited personally and asked to have interviews with the various speakers. Special emphasis is to be placed on those men who have not as yet decided on their life’s work. It is hoped by the committee that if there is any vocation not listed which someone wants presented, he will see Bob Covington, Chairman. The following is the number of those interested in various fields: Law, 58; Medicine, 90; Business, 108; Education, 47; Journalism, 7; Engineering, 35; Ministry, 81.

Seniors Developing House-Party Plans
Big Week-End Party to be Held February 23 and 24

Plans are rapidly developing for the Senior House Party to be given February 23 and 24. The general committee which is in charge of the arrangements is composed of the following: Dr. Arbuckle, Mrs. Martin, Mrs. Watts, Mrs. Currie, Mrs. Vowles, Mrs. Hood, Dr. Moffett, Mr. O'Neal, Professor Lyon, Mr. King, Professor Collum, Mr. J. P. Williams. A formal dinner at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel, when the Seniors will entertain their individual guests, will precede the party. A student committee is in charge of decorating the former Sigma Delta Fraternity House, to be used as the Senior House for the week-end. At a smoker held last Wednesday night, the Seniors expressed their appreciation and enthusiastic willingness to cooperate in the affair. Each Senior has been requested to invite at least one girl up for the week-end party, and most of them have already done so.

RADICAL CHANGES OF SCHEDULE ARE FINALLY APPROVED
Breakfast to be Held at 7:55 in the Morning
SEVEN TEACHING HOURS
Chapel to be Held After Second Period in the Morning Monday Chapel to Remain Same

After several months of agitation, the faculty has finally approved a very radical change in schedule. This new schedule for classes and college exercises will become effective next year. This announcement was made recently from the office of the president, Dr. W. J. Martin. The plan of a different schedule has been before the faculty for several months, but only recently did the members of the faculty decide that the change would be best suited to the interests of the student body and themselves. The complete schedule of classes for next year has not been completed and there are still a few details remaining to be worked out by the president and the registrar.

Under the new plan, breakfast will be served at 7:55 in the morning. The first class will begin at 8:30 in the morning. For two periods, classes will be conducted, then the chapel services will be conducted at about 10:20. There will be no change regarding attendance at these services; everyone will be required to attend. This program will prevail five days in the week. On Monday, the chapel services will be held at the same hour as they are now, and the same policy of pushing the periods up one hour will continue on Mondays. Lunch will be scheduled to be served at approximately 12:30. Classes will start in time to be out at four in the afternoon so that all classes will be over by 4:00 o'clock. There will be four class periods in the morning, two before chapel services and two after the exercises. There will be three class periods in the afternoon, thus making seven teaching hours in the day. Under this new plan, there will be classes up until the last period is over. There will not be crowding of the morning hours, so that the professors will not have afternoon classes. Another change that will be made is in regard to the R. O. T. C. drills. All drills are to be scheduled for the last period in the afternoon, making three drills during the week instead of one afternoon drill and two morning drills.

Mr. Hengeveld announced that nothing definite had been done toward the make-up of next year’s schedule but that it would be ready by the time for registration of next year’s courses in April.

Future Speakers at Vespers Announced
“Y” Speakers Scheduled Until Change of Administration

Dr. M. Vander Meulen, president of the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, will speak at “Y” Vespers February 17. Before Dr. Vander Meulen was president of the Louisville Theological Seminary, he held pastorates in six churches in several of the eastern states. He was a professor at Hope College in Michigan from which he was graduated with an A. B. degree, and later received an M. A. After that, the Doctor of Divinity degree was bestowed upon him. At the conclusion of his professorship of psychology and pedagogy at Hope College, he was ordained as a minister. In 1905, Dr. Vander Meulen was called to the presidency of the Louisville Seminary to take the place left vacant by Dr. Hemphill. Dr. Vander Meulen is well known on the campus, having conducted a series of services here during November of 1927.

On February 24, Dr. Foster, of Winston-Salem, will talk, and on March 10, Dr. Tom Glasgow will address the students. Dr. A. E. P. Gilmour of the First Presbyterian Church in Wilmington, N. C., was obtained for vespers on March 17. For March 24, no one is scheduled to speak. There will be special Easter Music on Easter Sunday. On April 7, the Y. M. C. A. cabinet will be appointed. For a period of two days, starting April 14, Donald W. Richardson will conduct a missionary institute. On the 21st, Dr. Luther Little, (Continued on page 3).