CLEMSON | INDEPENDENCE VERSUS | PARK DAVIDSON SATURDAY FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. XVII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 26, 1929 No. 2

Davidson Cats to Battle Clemson Tigers In New Central High Stadium At Charlotte Saturday Afternoon

Old Foe Proves Much Heavier in Line Than Red and Black Machine

GAME CALLED 3 O’CLOCK

Clemson Has Edge of Eight to Five in Past Victories

Saturday afternoon in Charlotte the Davidson Wildcat will meet the Clemson Tiger for the seventeenth time in thirty years of athletic relations on the gridiron. Of the sixteen games between the two teams Clemson has eight victories to its credit as against five for Davidson. Three of the contests have been ties. Two hundred and forty-eight points have been scored in these games, 150 for Clemson, 98 for Davidson. With two exceptions all games between the two schools have resulted in close scores. Not counting the contest of 1900, won by the Tigers 64-0, and the 1916 tilt, which the Wildcats won 33-0, the total scores are Clemson 86, Davidson 65, a margin of 21 points for Clemson in 14 contests or 1.5 points per game. Since 1918 the two teams have clashed five times, Clemson being the victor, with the exception of the 1924 game won by Davidson 7-0. During this period the greatest score for the South Carolinians was 12-0 in 1923, all other contests having been won by a single touchdown. Last year’s score was 6-0, in favor of Clemson, the touchdown being made by the overhead route.

Results of all contests played between the two elevens are as follows:

Year Clemson Davidson
1897 10 0
1900 64 0
1906 8 0
1907 6 10
1908 0 13
1909 17 5
1910 6 3
1911 0 0
1912 6 6
1916 0 33
1917 9 21
1921 7 0
1922 7 0
1923 12 0
1924 0 7
1928 6 0
Totals 150 98

The increase in Wildcat strength this season is nothing compared to that of Clemson, but performances of the past will be before the eyes of Davidson players and they are expected to display their best brand of football so far for this season.

Probable line-ups and weights of the Davidson and Clemson squad follow:

Clemson Position Weight
Woodruff L.E. 170
Collins L.T. 204
Gunnels L.G. 198
Gresham C. 183
Mag R.G. 172
Swofford R.T. 216
Hones R.E. 181
Padgett (Capt.) Q.B. 172
Justis L.H. 157
McMillan R.H. 158
McCarley F.B. 175

(Continued on Page 2)

Junior Assistants to Heefner Chosen

In the final and only tabulation of votes for assistant cheer leaders, G. E. McClenaghan and H. A. McAllister were chosen to be the two Juniors who will assist Ned Heefner with the cheer leading. There were only four men put before the student body for consideration. Last spring, seven men of the Sophomore Class were out at the baseball games assisting Heefner. This year some did not return to school and some men found it necessary to quit, leaving only four Juniors in the running, McClenaghan, McAllister, McClure, and Hunter. The election of the two men was by a large majority over the other two. There were about four hundred ballots cast.

Despite the fact that the two new assistants have not had much experience in cheer leading before coming to college, they have shown themselves to be reasonably competent in the tryouts, held last spring when baseball started. During baseball season, during the pep meetings this fall, and during the football game with Elon last Saturday, the four men were given a chance to display their ability before the student body. Ned Heefner, varsity cheer leader, has acted as coach to (Continued on Page 2)

Gammon Cites Paul At Vesper Service

Dr. Edgar Gammon, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, of Charlotte, N. C., gave a very interesting and profitable talk at “Y” Vespers last Sunday, suggesting how a man should plan his life in order to look back on it in later years with satisfaction. Ned Heefner had charge of the service. George Pardington and Murray Christian helped with the music. And J. W. McCutchan and R. G. Russell led in prayer.

Paul who probably had more influence on the world than any other human man would make a fine pattern for any man to follow, said Dr. Gammon. Paul’s life was planned by God as every man’s is but he carried out that plan. Dr. Gammon cautioned against being influenced to too great an extent by the unusual premium placed on the ministry at Davidson. But he stressed the importance of each man determining within himself to be the best Christian possible. A definite purpose is absolutely necessary for success in any life. Daniel became an outstanding leader in his day and has been universally admired ever since because he purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself. There are many temptations even at Davidson. A man must have a strong Christian purpose to overcome them. One of the most important things a man can learn at college is to evaluate things according to their real worth. Some men emphasize athletics too much, some campus activities, others the social life, and others their studies. All these heads are important and should be included in a well-rounded education each in its proper place. A man (Continued on Page 2)

The Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C.

Dear Sir:

SUBSCRIPTION BLANK

Earnest H. McCall, Business Manager

Enclosed you will find check for $2.00 for one year’s subscription to The Davidsonian, weekly publication.

Yours truly,

Pessimistic Monk

Coach “Monk” Younger, who will send his Wildcats against the Clemson Tigers, on Saturday.

Enlargements Made in Physical Training Work

Officials Extended Courses to All Classes—Examinations Are Increased

Two outstanding changes have been made in the physical education department of Davidson College this year which will extend its work to every student for the full four-year session, according to Dr. J. W. MacConnell, college physician. Until this fall only freshmen were required to undergo a thorough physical examination, but a new one is now required every year. With Doctor MacConnell in charge, the entire student body has been examined. The work began Friday, September 13, with the freshmen being taken first and the rest of the classes in order. After the examination by Dr. MacConnell the students were subjected to another one under Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, director of athletics. This was not as rigid, however, and was designed to obtain the measurements of the students, so that proper physical exercises can be prescribed for any defective part of the body.

The officials have adopted a chart for the students, which can be used during the four-year term, one side being devoted to Dr. (Continued on Page 2)

Gaffney and Smith to Manage College Store

This year the management ofThe College Student's Store will be under the direction of W. F. Gaffney and E. W. Smith, Jr., assisted by DeCamp, J. L. Smith, Lafferty, Pettus, Hall, Pritchett, and McInnis. The store is to be conducted under a slightly different plan from the one used last year, in that prices on many articles have been reduced, and many changes in general have been effected for the convenience of the Student Body. The stock carried is practically the same as that of last year and consists of most of the slighter necessities and luxuries adapted to the college student. It is the purpose of the management to retain the “honor system” in selecting and paying for goods. Last year a considerable profit was reported, and the sum total for the net profits of the last seven years amounts to $7,500.00. All profits from this source go into a fund which is to be used in building a swimming pool on the campus. It is expected that if the cooperation of the Student Body continues, the necessary sum will soon be acquired.

Walker Will Speak in Y.M.C.A Program

The YMCA has obtained a very fine group of speakers for “Y” Vespers throughout the month of October. Among those to be presented to the Student Body in the near future will be Rev. Joe Walker, pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Raleigh, Dr. George Bateman of Asheville, Dr. Luther Little of Charlotte, Dr. James Fowle of Chattanooga, and Dr. Frank C. Brown of Charleston, W. Va. The “Y” is embarking on a somewhat new policy this year by making efforts to get men from denominations other than Presbyterian to come to Davidson, thus bringing new faces to the campus. First of this group to be presented will be the Rev. Joe Walker, who comes to us for the Vesper Service of September 29. Mr. Walker is a young man, whose message should appeal to the college student. He graduated from Davidson in the Class of ’27, attended Union Theological Seminary at Richmond and later returned here to take his M.A. As pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Raleigh he is in close touch with college life, speaking frequently before the students at N.C. State. His message should have a decided appeal for every man on the campus.

New Faculty Members Assume Regular Duties

Several new additions to the faculty of Davidson have been made for the coming year. One professor has returned from a leave of absence while the others are starting their first year at Davidson. Dr. Walter L. Lingle, new President, heads the list. James N. Truesdale, who is from Rock Hill, S.C., is a new assistant professor in Greek and German. He received an M.A. degree from Duke University when he graduated in June, 1929. W. R. Weaver, of the class of 1929, of Davidson, is substituting for Prof. F. L. Blythe, who is studying in Spain. Weaver is from Hickory, N.C. James T. Kerr is instructing in chemistry. He completed his work at Davidson in February, 1929. Wilmington, N.C., is his home. Capt. W. L. Blanton is a new instructor in Military Science and Tactics. He was transferred to Davidson from the Hawaiian Islands. Miss Julia Pasmore, of Cary, N.C., is to assist Miss Shaw in the Library. She is a recent graduate of Drexel Institute of Philadelphia where she obtained her degree in library work. She also has received a diploma from North Carolina College for Women at Greensboro and later she was awarded her A.B. at the University of North Carolina. Prof. Lewis B. Schenk, after a year’s study at Yale University, has returned to Davidson to assume his duties as an Associate Professor in Mathematics and Bible. He is a graduate of Davidson College.

Cadet Officers Appointed For Year

As Reserve Officers Training Corps Commences Initial Battalion Drill Freshmen Will Have Two Special Drills Each Week to Provide Physical Exercise PARADE ON OCTOBER 23

First Formation Held in Chambers Auditorium on Opening Day of School

The first R.O.T.C. formation of the current year was held on September 12 in the Auditorium of the New Chambers Building. At this time all Freshmen and Sophomores, unless physically disabled, were present as were all Juniors and Seniors who are taking the advanced course. The companies were divided according to alphabetical order and the officers of the different companies were introduced to their men. Battalion drills will be held on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays and the Freshmen will have a special drill two days each week. The purpose of this drill is to provide physical exercise to build up and strengthen the body. During the first five months of school, setting up exercises and mass games will be played and after the Freshmen have become accustomed to this, more strenuous exercises and drills will be used. The first Battalion parade will take place on the Freshman Field on Wednesday afternoon, October 23, at 3:05 p.m. Appointments of the officers for the Battalion have been issued as follows:

Cadet Major: W. R. Hill.
Cadet Captains: L. L. Boyd, Company “B”; E. W. Johnston, Company “A”; W. B. McGuire, Company “C”; W. H. White, Company “D”; C. C. Orr, Band; S. L. Gant, Adjutant; J. L. Brown, Personnel Adjutant.
Cadet First Lieutenants: Company “A,” W. R. Morrison, L. A. Mills, W. F. Gaffney; Company “B,” L. C. Roberts, E. B. Wilkerson, C. A. Ritchie; Company “C,” A. M. Calhoun, W. W. Harrison, C. P. Greyer, D. C. Hunter; Company “D,” D. K. Miller, E. E. Marsh.
Cadet Second Lieutenants: Company “A,” F. S. Erwin, E. C. Close, W. A. Sutton; Company “B,” E. H. McCall, D. J. Black, R. Turner; Company “C,” G. L. Gladstone, W. J. Beavers, W. B. Buckner; Company “D,” R. D. Croom, A. T. Edleman, C. H. DuBose.
Cadet First Sergeants: Company “A,” A. R. Bird; Company “B,” D. Rusk; Company “C,” T. Brock; Company “D,” S. S. Wiley; Band, J. L. Hall.
Cadet Battalion Sergeant Major: J. S. Meachem.
Cadet Sergeants: Company “A,” H. S. (Continued on Page 2)

Faculty to Honor President Tonight

Tonight at 7:45 o'clock The Quadwrangler’s Club, an organization of the college faculty members, will entertain Dr. and Mrs. Walter L. Lingle, at an informal reception. The wives of the “Quadwranglers” will assist in the entertainment. The reception is to take (Continued on page 2)

RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS

October 3 is the date upon which the executive committee of the faculty will decide which students or alumni of Davidson College may compete for the Rhodes Scholarship in the various states as candidates representing this college. Elections will be held in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas, West Virginia, and other states. The Rhodes Scholarship is the largest scholarship open to graduates anywhere. It pays four hundred pounds or nearly two thousand dollars a year. Only alumni or seniors whose class and extracurricular records are strong should apply. Requests (in writing) for the endorsement must be in the hands of Dr. G. R. Vowles on or before five o'clock of October 3. Dr. Vowles will be glad to furnish information or to render any assistance in his power.