THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 24, 1929

Davidson President to Speak On Home-Coming Day

Dr. Walter L. Lingle Has Accepted Invitation to Make Principal Address At Important Celebration For Alumni

Officials Are Working on Complete Plans for Entertainment of Hundreds of Alumni on Saturday, November 16th

LENOIR BAND INVITED

Championship Band to be Here— R. O. T. C. Parade and Other Features Announced

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson, will make the principal address at the annual Home-Coming of the alumni here on November 16. This announcement was made here this week by the alumni secretary, who has been working in conjunction with the faculty committee on lectures. This group has been working out detailed plans of this annual occasion when hundreds of Davidson alumni return for a visit, and complete arrangements should be completed within the next week.

Those in charge of the program have expressed satisfaction that Doctor Lingle accepted their invitation to speak to the alumni, students, and friends of the college. His appearance on November 16 was not only desirable but seemed propitious, since this will be the first opportunity for Davidson’s new president to address the alumni constituency in person. He has communicated with them through the college bulletin several times and is already known to many of them. He has not yet had the chance, however, of this direct contact with former students as a body.

Coupled with this announcement was the further statement that the Lenoir high school band had again been invited to play with the local band at the various events of the day. The local musicians have voted unanimously to have these high school players at Davidson, and this nifty outfit of musicians will be the joint guests of the Davidson band, and the athletic and alumni associations. The Lenoir boys have won several of the state high school contests and have developed a reputation that extends beyond the confines of this state. Their appearance at Davidson last Home-Coming day created considerable favorable comment, and their performance is expected to be duplicated this year. The band is under the direction of James C. Harper, a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1915.

Another feature of the Home-Coming program will be the annual R. O. T. C. parade on Sprunt Field, which affords alumni the opportunity to see the battalion in action. This event will immediately follow the speaking exercises, which will be staged in the auditorium this fall. Heretofore the stadium has been used, but by having the program inside, alumni will see the new auditorium.

It is again the plan of the alumni secretary to have the usual alumni luncheon in the banquet hall of Chambers building. This has been served in cafeteria style during the past two years, and the method employed has been so favorably commented upon, that it is deemed advisable to follow the same procedure. The luncheon will begin at 1:00 o'clock and conclude only after everybody has been served.

The hours for all of the exercises have been tentatively set. The first event should start at 10:45 with an organ recital of fifteen minutes' duration, and in quick succession will be a forty-minute program in the auditorium, the drill occurring immediately afterward on Sprunt Field. It has been so arranged that students will have ample time to change to their civilian clothes before lunch.

As usual, the Carolina-Davidson football game will be the feature of the afternoon, beginning at 2:30 o’clock, and in the evening the final exercises of the full day’s entertainment will be the stunt night program, which has always been full of mirth and is surcease from the strained nerves of the afternoon.

NUMEROUS ALUMNI MARRIAGES

The following are marriages which have occurred since the first issue of The Davidsonian, when a long list was published. Complete information is not available on all of the marriages. A few of these were listed at the time as engagements, but the marriages have since taken place.

Caldwell-Godwin

Morrison Harris Caldwell, Jr., ’15, of Jackson, Miss., was married last Saturday evening in Atlanta, Ga., to Miss Mable Godwin, of Blue Mountain, Miss. Mrs. Caldwell is a graduate of the University of Mississippi and Vanderbilt University. Mr. Caldwell attended Davidson from Concord. For the past several years he has been with the Dixie Culvert and Metal Company, of Atlanta, Ga., and is now state manager of the company in Mississippi, with headquarters at Jackson, where Mr. and Mrs. Caldwell will reside.

William Swepston Overton, Jr., ’18, of Greenville, S. C., and Miss Hazel Hudson, of Salisbury, were married last Saturday evening in a brilliant ceremony at theFirst Methodist Church in Salisbury. Mrs. Overton is a graduate of North Carolina College for Women. Mr. Overton is located in Greenville, S.C., where he is engaged in the automobile business. Mr. and Mrs. Overton will reside in Greenville.

Hoye-Caldwell
Victor Carrol Hoye, ’23, of Meridian, Miss., and Miss Helen Caldwell, of Corinth, Miss., were married in Corinth on Friday, October 18. They will reside at Meridian, Miss.

MacMillan-Allen
Charles Vance MacMillan, ’24, of Southern Pines, and Miss Lena Allen, of St. Pauls, were married at the home of the bride’s parents in St. Pauls on September 21. Mrs. MacMillan received her education at Wingate College and Meredith College, in Raleigh. Mr. MacMillan was formerly of Parkton and after attending Davidson, he went to the University of North Carolina. He now lives at Southern Pines, where they will reside.

Hunter-Armfield
John Victor Hunter, Jr., ’23, of Winston-Salem, and Miss Adelaide Armfield, of Asheboro, were married at a brilliant and widely attended ceremony at the First Methodist Church in Asheboro on October 12. Mrs. Hunter graduated from Salem College in Winston-Salem. After leaving Davidson, Mr. Hunter was with the Standard Drug Company of Asheville, but is now connected with the Reynolds Tobacco Company, in Winston-Salem, where they will reside.

Liles-Allen
Richard Vernon Liles, ’25, of Lilesville, N.C., and Miss Grace Allen, of Wadesboro, N.C., were married on October 4 in the First Baptist Church of the latter city. They are at home at Lilesville, N.C.

Brown-Mauney
Benjamin George Brown, ’25, of Hendersonville, N.C., and Miss Dorothy Mauney, of Hickory, N.C., were married at the latter’s home last week. Mrs. Brown is one of Hickory’s most charming young girls. Mr. Brown has been located at Hendersonville since his graduation, and they will reside in that city.

Kugler-Freeman
Frank C. Kugler, Jr., '26, and Miss Viola Reide Freeman, both of Washington, N.C., were married at the home of the latter on October 9. Mr. and Mrs. Kugler were seen at the Army game at West Point on their bridal tour up north. Mr. Kugler is connected with the state highway department, and has his headquarters in Washington.

Mebane-Weddington
Alfred Holt Mebane, '25, of Aberdeen, and Miss Julia Emily Weddington, of Concord, were married at the home of the bride's parents recently. Mrs. Mebane graduated from N.C.C.W., and has been teaching in Concord. Mr. Mebane is now connected with Liggett & Myers Company, with headquarters in Aberdeen, where they will reside.

Geer-Farrow
Benjamin Owen Geer, '29, and Miss Louisa Chisholm Farrow, both of Charleston, S.C., were married in a lovely ceremony in Charleston on October 9. Many of Mr. Geer's friends attended the wedding. They are residing at 2 Gibbes St., Charleston, S.C.

Mizell-Vance
News was received at Davidson Monday of the marriage last May of William Capers Mizell, ’30, of College Park, to Miss Kitty Vance, of Atlanta. Mr. Mizell holds a position in Atlanta, but they are residing at 107 E. John Calvin, College Park, Ga.

New Addresses
Dr. C. A. Hart, '14, 334 W. 86th St., New York, N.Y.
F. M. Cassell, ’23, Wayne County High School, Wayne, Va.
B. Worth Williams, '26, 510 Hawthorne Lane, Charlotte.
A. B. Claytor, '26, Lincolnton.
M. P. Crawford, ‘28, Imperial Hotel, Detroit, Mich.
W. H. Long, '29, A. K. K. House, 726 Broadway, New Orleans, La.
F. S. Blue, ’10, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.
Rev. W. P. Chedester, '01, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.
Rev. W. H. Matheson, ’24, Milton, Tenn.
Rev. R. D. Daffin, D.D., '03, Parker, Fla.
Rev. J. H. Grey, Jr., '23, care Divinity School, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland.

(Continued on Page 7)

The telephone grows air-minded
THE BELL SYSTEM has made many successful experiments in two-way plane to ground telephone communication. This new development illustrates how it marches a pace ahead of the new civilization. It is now growing faster than ever before. New telephone buildings are going up this year in 200 cities. Many central offices are changing from manual to dial telephones. A vast program of cable construction is going on. This is the period of growth, improvement and adventure in the telephone industry. Expenditures this year for new plant and service improvements will total more than five hundred and fifty million dollars—one and one half times the entire cost of the Panama Canal.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones