THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER

V.M.I. DEFEATS

Side Line Shots At An Un-Dying Fight Against Big Odds
By P. R. Alderman

To a stranger, that game last Saturday must have shown promises of turning into a track meet during the first
half, but to us who know the Wildcats, everything pointed to one of those comebacks that the Davidson eleven has
practically gotten the habit of staging when they're on the wrong end of the score. This time proved no exception,
and those Wildcats came back with all the fight that their name implies, but the odds were too great to
be entirely overcome.

Captain Hawkins and his cohorts proved to be a Flying Squadron, but they found their flights hampered more than once
by the Red and Black eleven, who persisted in exhibiting that well-known Scotch trait and giving nothing, especially when their
backs were up against their own goal. It looks like some unseen force changes those eleven men into ones of
twice their strength when they are pushed past their 10-yard line.

It was anything but a lucky day for the Cats against the V. M. I. Cadets. Break after break went
to the Virginians until it seemed that fate was determined to send them off the field victors. Boreno Baker’s beautiful
recovery of a V. M. I. fumble on Davidson's 2-yard line in the first half was the only time that
Dame Luck was willing to smile on the losers. If one or two more breaks had gone the right way
for the Cats, the final tale might have been somewhat different.

Joe McCall again showed that he is apt to cause trouble to any opponent if he gets into a broken
field with the pigskin under his arm. That 55-yard run against the Cadets and through four or five of their
best was as much as any fan could ask in the way of speed and sidestepping. Dan Goodykoontz, playing for
the second time this season, also proved a threat when it came to nabbing passes.

The Wildcat eleven, in spite of the score and statistics, played one of their best games of the season. Whether
on offensive or defensive, they did very creditable work, especially when it’s taken into consideration that the Flying Squadron presented
one of the strongest lines that the Cats have gone up against this season. Although outweighed and battered, the Red
and Black machine was right in there digging all the time.

Hawkins was probably the outstanding star for the visitors. A constant threat when running with the ball, he also showed
himself a wise and alert field general. His running mate, Wright, also proved very damaging to the Cat line. Brock,
Covington, and Baker showed up fine in the line for Davidson, while McCall, King, and Fraley were best in the
backfield. It’s hardly just to say that these men outshone their mates, however.

For the first time in two years, the Davidson-State game presents a couple of teams that are pretty well-matched, as
far as predictions and estimates go. While State did beat Wake Forest, they were unable to score on Clemson, which
more or less evens things up. The Wolfpack and Wildcats both have comparatively inexperienced teams, all of which points to
a royal battle in Raleigh Saturday.

The present grid season is growing old fast; a few more games and it will all be over for another
year. The Wildcats, with the exception of two or three major injuries, should be in the best form of the
entire year as they meet State, Carolina, and Duke respectively. The odds are against us in the last two games,
but they’re to be played on Richardson Field, which makes things look a lot brighter.

It is customary for the bride’s parents to pay for the wedding expenses. Sort of a final payment and investment
in leisure. —Marquette Tribune.

“Have I any mail?”
“What’s your name?”
“You’ll find it on the envelope.” —Selected.

DAVIDSON

Wildcat Eleven Rallies in Second Half But is Unable to Overcome Cadet Lead

*Cats Again Attempt Aerial Attack in Effort to Better Score of Opponents

McCALL RUNS 55 YARDS

Captain Hawkins and Wright Star for Flying Squadron

The Virginia Military Institute Cadets ripped and slashed through the Davidson Wildcats here last Saturday during two quarters of the
game, but found themselves stopped short during the second half. The Wildcats, powerless during the first two stanzas of the
encounter, came back fighting in the second half to score once and to hold the Flying Squadron away from the
Davidson goal. The final score was 12 to 6.

All during the early part of the game, the Cats were fighting with their backs to the wall. The powerful
drives of Hawkins and Wright for the Soldiers kept the ball deep in Davidson territory most of the time. The
Wildcats were never in a position to start an offensive of any kind. Only one first down was made by
them during the first two quarters, and this was made deep in their own territory. But the Wildcat fight was
there, holding whenever the goal line was threatened, and Thad Brock’s toe was also there to send the ball spiraling
down the field out of danger.

Although V. M. I. gained by far the most ground, yet it remained for the Cats to pull off the
outstanding play of the game. With the ball on their own thirty-yard line, Thad Brock shot a fifteen-yard pass to
Joe McCall, who then sidestepped, twisted, and fought his way on for the distance between him and the goal. There
were four orange-jerseyed men between him and the final marker, but he either hookedoff or dodged them all. He ran
fifty-five yards after receiving the pass. It was without doubt the prettiest piece of work of the whole game. V.
M. I. kicked off and McCall returned the ball to the forty-yard line. However, the Cats were forced to punt
and Hawkins returned the ball to Davidson’s 45-yard line. Here the Flying Squadron went into action, and by a series
of line plays, featuring Hawkins and Wright, carried the ball down the field. With its first down on Davidson’s one-yard
line, Wright tried center, but fumbled and Baker was on the ball like a hawk to stop the dangerous drive.
Brock kicked safely out of danger. The Cadets never threatened seriously again during the rest of the quarter, but kept
possession of the ball most of the time. But the driving power of the V. M. I. boys was not
to be denied long, and they started a drive from Davidson’s forty-yard line that was not to be stopped short
of a touchdown, Wright plunging four yards for the counter. Again during the second quarter, the Cadets carried the ball
almost over the line, but were stopped by a determined stand by the Cats. The stand only delayed the score
a few moments, for Brock got off his only bad kick of the game to give the ball to the
Squadron on the twenty-five-yard line and McCray carried the ball over after a series of drives had placed it in
scoring position.

The second half was another story. The Wildcats took to the air with some degree of success and scored once
and threatened to score again. Passes and line plays carried the ball from Davidson’s 20-yard line to V. M. I.’s
30-yard line, but here a pass was intercepted to give the ball to the Cadets and to break up the
drive. Two other times Davidson had heaves intercepted to stop their drives, but on no other occasions was the ball
so deep into the Virginian’s territory. The drives of the V. M. I. team met with a stone wall defense
that never once let them get in a position that was dangerous. Captain Thad Brock again turned in a very
consistent game. He was everywhere at once, it seemed, on the defense and was one of the offensive stars of
the Cats. His punting average was almost forty yards, an exceptional one. Several times he was forced to kick from
behind his own goal line. His passing enabled the Wildcats to put over their only score and aided greatly in
other drives.

Davidson President Not To Attend Presentation

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, has expressed deep regret that he will be unable to attend the
exercises at Raleigh on November 12, when a portrait of the late Benjamin R. Lacy, state treasurer, will be presented
to the state of North Carolina. A conflicting engagement will prevent the Davidson president from attending. Davidson College is interested
in the approaching exercises from several standpoints.

Joe McCall turned in some pretty broken field running, among his exhibitions being his jaunt for the touchdown. He returned
the kickoffs behind beautiful interference for long gains. Dan Goodykoontz went in as a substitute and played a fine offensive
game. He was on the receiving end of several of Brock’s passes for nice gains. Walter Fraley and Don King
also played jam-up defensive games in the backfield, while Baker and Brock were towers of strength in the line. Captain
Hawkins for the visitors was a continuous bother to Davidson. He handled punts in an almost perfect manner and ran
his team very commendably. Wright and Biggs were other able performers in the backfield.

November 7, 1929

Summary

Davidson Position V. M. I.
Panel (C) Brock L.E.
Goswick Baker L.T.
Massey DeCamp L.G.
McGowan Milton Center
Gravatt Mathis R.G.
Smith Covington R.T.
Scott Proctor R.E.
Hawkins (C) Fraley Q.B.
Biggs Parrish L.H.
McCray McCall L.H.
Wright King F.B.

V. M. I. 12 0 0 0—12
Davidson 0 0 6 0— 6

Scoring touchdowns: for V. M. I. Wright, McCray; for Davidson, McCall. Substitutions: for V. M. I. Chapman, Willard, Agrow, Laughorn,
Gregory, Markliss, Bailey, Holtzclaw. For Davidson: Goodykoontz, Mills, Raker, Conway, Miller, M. Parker, McConnell, Bradshaw. Officials: Referee, Hartsell, N. C.
State; umpire, Brice, Auburn; head linesman, Rawson, Georgia.

STUBBORN FIGHT

Speedy Halfback Joe McCall, whose stellar work in the Wildcat backfield has been outstanding all season, provided the feature of
the day by a beautiful fifty-five-yard run for Davidson's only score against the V. M. I. Cadets last Saturday.

Fond Mother: “Ah, how do you like college?”
Freshman: “Well, at times I’ve felt a little board.”
Some Freshmen are dumb but most of them are not acting.

Key Town selling—a new telephone idea

Commercial development men of the Bell System have originated a new use of the telephone which is proving economical and
efficient for modern salesmanship. From important central towns, the salesman makes periodic visits to customers and prospects by telephone. To
conceive this idea, to make it practical by selecting Key Towns on a basis of most advantageous rates to surrounding
points, and to sell it as a business practice—all this illustrates how telephone service is as open as any commodity
to constructive imagination. Key Town selling is one of many indications of the steady demand, present and to come, for
more and more telephone service.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones
“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN"
