January 31, 1929
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

TOWN NEWS

Mrs. Fetzer and sisters, Mrs. Compton and Miss Phifer, of Montreal, are occupying the Lingle residence during the spring months
while Dr. and Mrs. Lingle are away.

Mrs. Burwell entertained the “As You Like It Club” last Friday evening. Mrs. Moffett, Mrs. Roy Caldwell, Mrs. Vowles, and
Mrs. Watkins were on the program.

Dr. H. M. Moffett spent the past weekend visiting friends in Alabama.

Miss Hattie Flowe, of Statesville, has been a visitor in the home of Dr. J. I. Flowe.

Mrs. Davis, mother of Prof. J. H. Davis, spent Sunday with him.

NEW LIBRARY BOOKS

The following is a list of the new books in the library: Mysticism in English Literature by Caroline F. E.
Spurgeon; The Structure of the Atom by E. N. DaC Andrade; Relativity and Gravitation by T. Percy Nunn; A Short
History of Physics by H. Buckley; The Autobiography of Kingsley Fairbridge; Human Behavior by Hunter; Up from the City Streets
by Norman Hapgood and Henry Moskowitz; Seventeenth Century Lyrics, edited by Norman Ault; Proportional Representation by Clarence Gilbert Hoag and
George Harvey Hallett; Confessions of a Young Man by Moore; Dubliners by James Joyce; Mental Growth and Decline by H.
L. Hollingsworth; An Adventure in Moral Philosophy by Warner Fite; Kinetic Theory of Gases by Leonard B. Loeb; Introduction to
Modern Physics by F. K. Richtmyer; Tristan and Isolt by John Masefield; Economics of Consumption by Warren C. Waite; Esther
Waters by George Moore; The Instinct of Workmanship by Thorstein Veblen; Sir John Mandeville’s Travels; John Brown's Body by Stephen
Vincent Benet; The Inner World of Childhood by Frances G. Wilkes; Evelyn Innes by George Moore; Space, Time, Matter by
Hermann Weyl; Vacuum Practice by Dunoyer; Idealism by R. F. Alfred Hoerple; Einstein's Theory of Relativity by Max Born; The
Mathematical Theory of Electricity and Magnetism; The Life of Moses by Edmond Fleg; Famous Jokes of Famous People as told
by them to Frank Ernest Nicholson; Beneath Tropic Seas by William Beebe; College Life in the Old South by E.
M. Coulter; Psychology by H. L. Hollingsworth; Brains of Rats and Men by C. Judson Herrick; Life of St. Patrick
by J. B. Bury; The New Universe by Baker Brownell; Our Cuban Colony; The Bankers in Bolivia by Margaret A.
Marsh; Silence and Life by Robert A. Millikan; The Americans in Santo Domingo by Melvin M. Knight; Elements of Aviation
by Virginius Evans Clark; What am I by Edward G. Spaulding; The Demon of the Absolute by Paul Elmer More;
The Depths of the Universe; The Earth and the Stars by C. G. Abbot; The Biography of Population Growth by
Raymond Pearl; Bees, Wasps and Ants by Charles A. Hall; A Textbook of Systematic Botany by D. B. Swingle; Field
Book of Insects by Frank E. Lutz; The Case of Sergeant Grischa by Arnold Zweig; The Metaphysical Foundations of Modern
Science by E. A. Burtt; A Survey of Physics by Max Planck; Introduction to Theoretical Physics; Procopius; Lucan; Cicero; Oppian,
Colluthus, Tryphiodorus; Epictetus; Athenaeus; Plutarch’s Morals; Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy by Bertrand Russell; Foundations of the Universe by M. Luckiesh;
Engines by E. N. DaC Andrade.

SECOND SUMMER SCHOOL
(Continued from page 1)

Modern Language—French, or Spanish—6 hours.
Psychology—6 hours.
School Arts—Two of the following:
Music—1 hour.
Drawing—1 hour.
Industrial Arts—1 hour.
Physical Education—1 hour.
Hygiene and Health Education—1 hour.
Penmanship—1 hour.
Science—General Biology, Physics—8 hours.
Chemistry.

THE WANDERING JEW

Judging from a recent copy of the TECHNICIAN, it seems that the state boys are having more trouble in getting
their band properly clothed than Davidson has. It seems that a student body meeting was called to decide whether the
student body would be assessed the fee of one dollar per man next year and to raise about fifteen hundred
dollars. Only fifty boys turned out to the meeting and so they were unable to even begin raising the fund.

We wonder if the JOHNSONIAN is considering buying out the NEW YORK TIMES, judging from the fact that they show
a marked preference for the news which the TIMES sanctioned “fit to print.” It will be simply great to have
our neighbors at Winthrop running such a powerful organ as the New York Times. But perhaps we are wrong, and
they don’t usually use more than ten of the TIMES’ articles per issue.

N.C. C. W. seems to have all of the luck. Not content with having the San Carlo perform for a
solid week in their own auditorium, they were given the rather rare opportunity—if we may judge by the CAROLINIAN—of hearing
Clarence Darrow in two separate hotels at one time. Or perhaps Mr. Darrow had his double along to take care
of the overflow in the crowd at another hotel.

If the proposed plans go through, the University of North Carolina’s TAR HEEL is to become a daily paper, rather
than being published tri-weekly (not, try-weakly). Congratulations may not yet be in order but we wish to add whatever encouragement
we may in the undertaking. If the move goes through, The TAR HEEL will certainly be the only daily in
this section of the country. Contrary to the beliefs of some students, though, there are two dailies published by southern
universities, both in Texas, the papers of the University of Texas, and of Baylor.

No doubt the freshmen at Davidson would welcome a headline like the following: Freshmen Not Required to Wear Caps. Such
is the recent ruling issued by the Dean of Men, of High Point College, as reported by THE HI-PO. Several
reasons were advanced in defense of the position. Chief among these was the statement that the caps had become badly
worn and frayed, and that it was not proper to make the freshmen buy new caps for the remainder of
the year.

The freshmen up at Elon are taking things in their own hands. One of their recent contributions is in the
form of an issue of the MAROON AND GOLD. Although indulging in the usual self-laudatory style, they did put out
a good issue of the paper.

From the South Carolina GAMECOCK comes the news that the U. S. C. men’s Glee Club has resigned from the
Southern Association of Glee Clubs. The reason given was that they felt that they had been treated unfairly in a
recent contest with Wofford. The judges were selected by Wofford, and the decision was given to Wofford. Such things may
lead to an inference that Wofford “cheated.” But, in spite of that, it appears to be pretty bad taste and
questionable ethics to give much prominence to such an affair on the front page.

Y. M. C. A. SPONSORS
(Continued from page 1)

On account of it, the ping-pong table is crowded every day. Many peculiar types of service and return are being
developed and being barred. Many paddles or rackets are being broken in the course of the day’s vicious serving. Large
numbers of the little celluloid balls are being knocked into eternity by the impact of the rackets, wielded by an
unsympathetic hand. To reassure those who are bewailing the lack of balls, the “Y” officials have announced that many more
have been ordered and that there will surely be enough to run off the tournament. There is that word again.
Tough. The date of the contest is still in the offing. It will be announced in time to fulfill expectations
of the many devotees who expect to have a little cup to grace their bureau top.

CHARLOTTE
KNOXVILLE
ASHEVILLE
RALEIGH
ATLANTA

S & W Cafeterias are catering to you.

FRENCH CLUB TO SECURE LECTURE

The local chapter of the Cercle français, with the co-operation of the faculty committee on lectures, plans to bring to
Davidson on February 11th, Monsieur Daniel Michenot, official lecturer of the Alliance Française, with which the Davidson chapter of the
Cercle français is affiliated. Monsieur Michenot is making his second lecture tour of America, having been here before two years
ago. He is one of the outstanding French scholars brought to America this year by the Alliance. On the completion
of his studies at Paris, Monsieur Michenot was named Professor of Diction at the Conservatory of Lausanne, Switzerland. At the
outbreak of war, he returned immediately to France to join his regiment as a private. He made all the campaigns
and after 52 months of service, he was discharged with the rank of captain. He was called at once to
the Conservatory of Strasbourg where he had the difficult task, in addition to his teaching duties, of organizing the instruction
in Alsace of French literature and dramatics. As President of the Groupe d'Art Social, he carried the masterpieces of French
dramaticArt to the smallest towns of the restored territory. Davidson is one of them. He has made several successful lecturing
tours in Switzerland, Belgium, Luxemburg, Holland, and Canada. It is expected that he will speak in French on the following
topic: Un Romantique Moderne; Edmond Rostand.

DELTA PI KAPPA
(Continued from page 1)

4. The articles will be judged by some competent committee members selected by the committee.
5. If worthy articles are not submitted, no prizes will be given.
6. The Davidsonian shall have the privilege to publish any article submitted. The committee urges that men who are not
connected with The Davidsonian or who have never attempted journalistic work try out for these prizes along with members of
the Reporters’ Club and Davidsonian workers. The object is to discover latent talent and stimulate journalistic interest and efficiency.

DR. CULLUM TALKS
(Continued from page 1)

Parts of Jerusalem were given. Then the descent to Jericho and the Dead Sea was depicted, and the return to
Jerusalem with the visits to Bethlehem and Hebron were traced. Views of Galilee and the surrounding country ended the series.
Dr. Cullum showed by his lecture the application of the phrase “The Land and the Book” to our religion, since
in this case the land is the exact proof of the historicity of the Book.

The Rice Thresher pronounces her a rare girl if she wears the face to classes that she gets up with
in the morning.

LEARN THE PIANO IN TEN LESSONS
TENOR-BANJO OR MANDOLIN IN FIVE LESSONS

Without nerve-racking, heartbreaking scales and exercises. You are taught to play by note in regular professional chord style. In your
very first lesson, you will be able to play a popular number by note.

Send For it on Approval

The “Hallmark Self-Instructor” is the title of this method. Eight years were required to perfect this great work. The entire
course with the necessary examination sheets is bound in one volume. The first lesson is unsealed which the student may
examine and be his own “JUDGE and JURY.” The later part of the “Hallmark Self-Instructor” is sealed. Upon the student
returning any copy of the “Hallmark Self-Instructor” with the seal unbroken, we will refund in full all money paid. This
amazing Self-Instructor will be sent anywhere. You do not need to send any money. When you receive this new method
of teaching music, deposit with the Postman the sum of ten dollars. If you are not entirely satisfied, the money
paid will be returned in full upon written request. The Publishers are anxious to place this “Self-Instructor” in the hands
of music lovers all over the country and are in a position to make an attractive proposition to agents. Send
for your copy today. Address The “Hallmark Self-Instructor” Station G, Post Office, Box 111, New York, N. Y.

Dr. Johnson to Lead “Y” Vespers Sunday

Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, has been secured to speak at the Y.
M. C. A. vesper service Sunday night. Dr. Johnson is vitally interested in boys and needs no introduction to Davidson
men. He has visited Davidson every year for the past five years and each time his coming is looked forward
to with eagerness and pleasure.

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Philanthropic

At the meeting on January 15, the program was short for the benefit of men desiring to study for examinations.
The principal feature of the program was a debate between the Freshmen and the Sophomores. The query was: “Resolved that
the Monroe Doctrine should no longer be the guiding principle in the foreign policy of the United States government.” Debating
on the Sophomore team were J. W. McCutchan and A. B. McClure. On the Freshmen team were J. O. Mann
and William Rule. The decision was rendered in favor of the Sophomores. No meeting was held on the following Tuesday
on account of examinations.

Eumanean

After some discussion as to the propriety of appointing a committee to cut off the secretary’s ears as Mr. Dumas
moved, the house settled down for its last meeting during the first semester. The first number on the program was
a reading from Kipling by Mr. Baker. Next, there was a debate between Mr. J. C. Matthews and Mr. E.
E. Marsh on the query: “Resolved that trial by expert should replace trial by jury in the United States.” Both
of the debaters had done some work on this subject for the varsity debating team, so their speeches showed great
preparation. By a vote of the house, Mr. Matthews was awarded the decision.

The treasurer wishes to announce that the dues for the second semester are due. Those who have not paid for
last semester may pay both at once.

Mr. Jackson Speaks To Ministerial Band

Well prepared from experience to talk on such subjects, Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, centered his talk
around the central theme of endowments as he spoke to the Ministerial Band in its regular meeting Sunday afternoon. Mr.
Jackson first showed the endowment in money, in friendship, and in prayer, which Davidson College possesses. He then used such
endowments as a figure of speech in showing the ministerial candidate how he should little by little build up his
endowments in prayer, friendships, intellectual and physical efficiency. “Learn the art of making friends,” Mr. Jackson emphatically urged. “In friendship,
there is power and an enlarged field of service.”

Y.M.C.A. Deputation Sent to Back Creek

Last Sunday, the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. sent a deputation to the Back Creek church. As the pastor
was absent, the “Y” representatives took charge of the morning service. Bob Sloop was the leader of the deputation and
was assisted by Charles Kraemer, Frank Pilcher, Bob Orr, and Murray Christian. Talks were made by Kraemer and Christian while
Pilcher and Orr entertained with music. Bob Orr gave a violin solo. After the service, they enjoyed a wonderful country
dinner at the home of the parents of Bob Sloop. The party returned to Davidson Sunday afternoon. As usual, a
speaker was sent to the Charlotte "Y". Tom Hill was the representative last Sunday. Next Sunday, a deputation will be
sent to Crossnore.

NEW ESSAY CONTEST

Max McConn of Lehigh University, author of “College or Kindergarten?” Robert Morss Lovett of the University of Chicago and The
New Republic.

6. The writer of the best article will receive the sum of $100, and his essay will be published in
The New Republic, if possible before the close of the academic year.
7. The writer of the next best article, in the opinion of the judges, will receive $75.
8. The editors reserve the privilege of summarizing or extracting points from other articles, or of buying them at regular
rates for publication.
9. Articles should be addressed to College Essay Editor.

An ordinary No. 2 liar is the student who says he would like his college just as well if it
had no football team.

Dad: A man who thinks it is wrong for a boy to do what he did when he was a
boy.

THE ANATOMY OF SMOKE PLEASURE

You see, the fact is that once you’ve chosen Camels, you’re somewhat the fair-haired boy. Perhaps a word of explanation
is in order, but we're disinclined to elucidate at length. We could probably trace the cool course of a mellow
Camel-cloud through your smoke-channel—and explain what makes it “click.” But as the osteopath said to the bacteriologist, “Don’t bacilli.” Have
a Camel!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C. © 1929
