2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 21, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
FOUNDED BY THE CLASS OF 1915

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, North Carolina.
Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editors by 4:00 p.m., Monday.

ZEB V. LONG, Editor-in-Chief
Moons Jr., Editor-in-Chief

EDITORIAL STAFF
J. B. BLACK, Managing Editor
W. S. AOGUTCOHAN, Managing Editor
P. R. ALDERMAN, Athletic Editor
J. F. PRESTON, Feature Editor
J. L. BROWN, Feature Editor
R. F. JARRATT, Associate Editor
F. D. MILLER, Associate Editor
C. O. MIGPRATT, Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Asst. Bus. Mgr.
Subscription Mgr.
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor
Solicitor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. HEEFNER, President
J. SUN, Vice-President
V. D. MIDDLETON, Secretary-Treasurer
B. K. MARTIN
R. C. W. F. D. O. STEPHENSON
W. T. HANCOCK
R. C. W. F. D. O. STEPHENSON
W. T. HANCOCK
JOHN M. BROWN
G. P. PARDINGTON
R. E. DWELLE
A. BIRD
E. C. VELLE

NOVEMBER 21, 1929

THE DAVIDSONIAN

—Looks back at Home-Coming as a splendid success despite the weather and a football game lost.
—Gives all honor and praise to a fighting Wildcat eleven, the gamest team we've ever seen.
—Congratulates Captain Thad Brock for the finest exhibition of football of the current season.
—Saw a powerful Wildkitten team stage an old-time comeback against Wofford, and hails the Kittens as comers.
—Feels that Doctor Lingle's declaration of Davidson's ideals will strike responsive chords in Davidson supporters everywhere.
—Hopes every student will read Dan Poling’s definition of war as given by Edward Woods at “Y” Sunday evening.
—Wishes luck to the little Cats as they meet the Duke Blue Imps tomorrow in Durham.
—Watches mid-term pass and remembers the value of hard work till Christmas.

DAVIDSON'S IDEALS

It was with a sense of deep pleasure that we heard the statement of Davidson’s new president last Saturday morning as he addressed the alumni of the institution for the first time as a body, and advanced to them his hopes for the growth and efficiency of Davidson. Doctor Lingle stated that he was trying to set forth his ideals for the college, and he asked the cooperation of all alumni and students in his work ahead. He stressed the brotherhood of all Davidson men, likening the college with all its supporters to one great family, each part of which must contribute to the welfare of the whole.

It seems to us that the things discussed by Doctor Lingle are the most essential problems in the life not only of Davidson, but of every college and university. They are all things which cannot be settled once and for all by a single stroke of some efficient hand, nor are they things which will eventually drop out of the scheme of college life. Every one of them stands out as a constant companion to the growing institution. For that reason they are vital, and will not brook delay in the attention given them. As Doctor Lingle said, “The complete college is a dead college.” There must be no pause in constructive work whatever its nature by the ever-present tendency to rest on hard-won laurels and be content. The survival of a college in its finest form depends strictly upon vision coupled with willing hands and hearts. It is to these willing hands and hearts that Davidson is appealing today for greater interest and active support than ever before. The challenge sounded by the president must be accepted by every thinking son of the college and taken as a personal call to the side of service, to greater loyalty. We believe that Davidson waits at the threshold of her greatest day, a day replete with accomplishment, with honor for her and for the standards which she proudly extends to young men everywhere. The response will come because the spirit of the work is too living a thing to die away. Its call is ever with us.

The statement that the college proposes to work out a plan of support for its alumni office is most cheering, especially to those who know something of the tremendous value of this organization to the general welfare and good spirit of the college. We feel that too much emphasis cannot be laid on the work of keeping contacts alive and warm between alumni and actives. It should mean more to a man than just a diploma when he completes his course at a great college. It should mean the establishment of a base from which he need never break away. The alumni office is the means of sealing men to their college, not only in spirit but in person.

Then it is evident that the concept of physical training in its true sense would be the means of insuring a more perfect college in every way. Many problems which vex alumni and students as well would eventually be eliminated through the steady practice of a complete program of physical education. Sound mind in a sound body—a wonderful goal to aim for, and a necessary goal if the college is to give the best possible equipment for future life to her student sons.

Some people may have been surprised to hear Doctor Lingle touch upon what he calls “social culture.” The idea is fairly prevalent that Davidson has always stood for the very acme of culture and social grace. So it has, and so it does in comparison with many of our educational institutions, but the point is that there is never a stopping place. The way of life and modes of conduct are changing with every passing hour, and no man can afford to classify himself among the perfect. We all need every touch of grace we can lay our hands on, grace in our dealings with each other, in our contacts with the world outside, grace, too, in our thinking. It’s an endless process, but the most worthwhile one in the world. Practically speaking, in spite of Davidson’s fine old democratic attitude, there is a crying need here for more social life of a definite nature, and keen observers of student life are not slow to discern this fact. Here, then, comes the idea of a great social center building, a student proposition, a true center of student life. Church building and infirmary building were also laid before the alumni as outstanding needs of Davidson, and the hope was advanced that early days will find both projects under way.

“Educated, cultured, Christian manhood:” For Davidson, for You, for the service of mankind.

THOSE WILDCATS

We want the world to know that Davidson is wrapped up in her football team, the most courageous eleven we've ever seen go down under a kickoff. The sport writers around the country are always slow to rate the Wildcats before the season gets under way. Someday perhaps they will learn from the start that it means a lot to call eleven men a Davidson football team. It usually means the difference between victory and defeat, or between being defeated and being whipped. Davidson is never outfought. She can take lickings and still leave everybody praising her to the skies. She depends on something besides cold cash and frantic alumni.

Carolina brought a splendid team to Richardson Field last week. It was just as good as they said it was, and that team’s victory was well deserved, if not by the actual score obtained. Davidson’s game was a revelation and a tonic to the crowd. They saw a team go out there and come so close to accomplishing a hopeless task that even Carolina was forced to go back on her claims that all the Tar Heel teams are of equal strength. And we are afraid that Turkey Day is going to be anything but pleasing to Duke’s globe-trotters. The ’Cats are going to be mighty hard to hold, and they will be holding the opposing team until it hurts.

Yes, congratulations to Chuck Collins, Johnny Branch and all the rest of the boys, but here go our hands to Monk Younger’s boys—Davidson’s own.

The mayor of Lynn, Mass., has forbidden any girl over 12 years old to appear on the streets exposing her knees, “dimpled or otherwise.” We suspect he has seen too many of the “otherwise.”

Speaking of Mr. Shearer, it is hard to say which is more oppressive, his patriotic heat or his humility.“Tickles,” cried the king. “What tickles?” asked the queen. “Spectacles,” giggled the king, and the joke was on the queen.

“The jig is up,” said the doctor as the patient with St. Vitus dance died.—Kitty Kat.

“No, old dear,” replied the parrot, “I have dined copiously. Got a cigarette about you?”—Brown Bull.

Cosmic Chaos
J. W. McCutchan

Despite rabid protests of the Cannonites, Virginia declared herself unitedly Democratic, on November 5. Pollard was elected governor of the Old Dominion by one of the greatest majorities ever accorded any nominee. Pre-election statements by the Anti-Smiths prophesied a definite rejection of the Democratic machine. Refusing to receive the propaganda that moral or national machine question was at stake, the voters rallied to the cause that has given Virginia a countless number of splendid men. It appears that the South fooled the Democrats as regards the national election, and it is the privilege of the G. O. P. to get the laugh now.

“Twelve Die in Mexican Election Sunday,” is the headline which appears on the front of a prominent daily newspaper. The mixture of high-strung Castilian blue-blood with pagan selfishness is not one which tends to be politically secure. Rubio was chosen to fill out the unexpired term of Alvaro Obregon, assassinated. One cannot help but wonder how long the new leader will last. The policy of Imperialism has never been tolerated, especially in the New World, but there are many colonies which enjoy a far more peaceful existence than does the Republic of Mexico. The rebellious Aztec spirit survives.

Great Britain refuses to recognize or heed a naval parity with the United States or any other nation. She is wise! The expense or waste, as the case may be, necessary to obtain an equal ratio has no rival which is as creative of war. It will never be possible to gain a ratio satisfactory or just to the countries concerned. Great Britain, with her imports and extensive colonization, undoubtedly has need of a much larger naval force than does the United States. President Hoover, active in World Peace movements, sensibly recognizes the need for a sensible, non-extravagant system of National Defense. America does not need an equal number of cruisers on the high seas as long as she has the resources with which to construct them, and the men with which to man them. Strong and sensible National Defense is the chief reason for an Army and Navy Reserve. Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Units have strong justification.

There is a saying that a “human interest story” always touches a responsive cord. Some readers will be interested in the true story of a man who committed suicide at his business house upon hearing the fire alarm sounded for the ward in which his family lived. Due to no possible fault of his, this man had lost a wife and three children by fire. He later married again, and this second wife was also burned to death. Three of his children continued to live at his home, which had been rebuilt. Two minutes before he killed himself the warning bell had sounded. It was the signal that the fire was in his block. Perhaps age-old conception of superstitious fate and remorse accounted for his action.

Vitaphone has produced a masterpiece in “Disraeli.” It is not recommended particularly for the stage settings, the concise dialogue, the interesting plot, but chiefly for the recollection of the most intriguing figure in all diplomatic actions of his day. Fighting tenaciously, he succeeded in making a name for himself in a country which hated his race. He was a Jew.

Among other things this column would like:
First, to be read by someone.
To feel some heat in the radiators at 8:30 a.m.
To be constitutional and yet original.
To be appointed as a committee to investigate the Senate.
Lastly, to publish something before it has happened, be pungent, witty, and possibly—
P. S. To contribute an affective thought.

You may mean the world to your mother but you're just a grain of sand to me.

Betty: “Is the editor of the school paper particular?”
Helen: “Rather. She raves if she even finds a period upside down.”

Miss H.: “Miss Wolfe, what races of people have black eyes?”
Miss Wolfe: “Sheiks and prize-fighters.”

Life Guard: “Here is your boy. I saved his life.”
Father: “So you saved my boy’s life, heh?”
L. G.: “Yes.”
Father: “Vell, vere iss his cap?”

Coed: “Did I show you the place where I hurt my hip?”
Ed: “N-no.”
Coed: “O. K., we'll drive over there.”

Smokehouse Saga
By W. C. Ragin
(Published Weakly)

It has been whispered about the campus that several of the less fortunate students at Davidson are bothered by those insidious little beasties—mice. Of course, this statement is doubtless false, but it might be a good idea to give these men a few helpful hints on getting rid of these pests in case they should ever be attacked by the aforesaid rodents. Now, mice aren’t very objectionable when they lead a normal quiet life of a well-behaved mouse, but when they choose the wee small hours of the morning to amuse themselves by dragging trunks, desks, or what have you about the room, it is only natural that the other inmates of the room should entertain the thought of chucking the mouse out on his proverbial ear in the cold, cruel world. But how can you do it? Ah, lend an ear, gentle reader, lend an ear. Thanks for the loan, buddy.

Of Getting Rid of Mice:
1. Set a trap and label “Wet Paint.” Mouse will test trap to see if paint really is wet and be caught, and fooled too (because the paint wasn’t wet after all).
2. Sing “Sonny Boy” to mouse. Mouse will commit hari-kari.
3. Tell mouse the joke about “that wasn’t no lady, that was my wife.” Mouse will run amuck, be bogged in muck, and starve to death.
4. Confine mouse’s girlfriend so that she can’t keep her date. Mouse will become dejected and go off to Africa to shoot lions.
5. Tell mouse about famous Wildcat fight Spirit. Mouse will work himself into a frenzy. Throttle mouse while he is frenzied with you.
6. Spray mouse with alcohol. Mouse will receive summons from Student Council and die of humiliation.
7. Feed mouse tripe. Mouse will become full of tripe and attempt to write a column. Will be squelched by the Editor. (He’s just the tripe that would).
8. Chop off mouse’s tail up to his neck. Mouse will die of exposure.
9. Run pipes from Davidson’s steam heating plant through mouse’s home. Mouse will become inured to frigid climate and go on a polar exploration tour. Will be lost in frozen wastes.
10. Tell mouse that the eyes of Texas are upon him. Mouse will become self-conscious and flee. Spray flea with Flit.
11. Tell mouse about his wonderful possibilities. Mouse will become fired with ambition. Sweep up ashes in dust-pan.
12. Tell mouse he is a squirrel. Mouse will eat nuts. Mouse will think he is the nuts. Mouse will go nuts. Confine mouse in a padded cell.
13. Tell mouse how cat killed his parents. Mouse will rush out to wreak vengeance. Mouse will be found dead in the wreckage.
14. Croon “Mouse, mouse, come out of your hole.” Fool mouse when he appears and shoot with a double-barrelled shotgun. Remove mouse with absorbent cotton and a medicine dropper.
15. Show mouse a Senior in his new blazer. Mouse will become hysterical and will be unable to snap out of it. Bury.
16. Tie one end of a stout cord around mouse’s neck and other end around a brick. Tease mouse until he becomes infuriated and heaves brick. Lock your door as he follows the brick out.
17. Grease mouse well with Stacomb and part in the middle with an axe.
18. Tell mouse he is a frog. Mouse will croak.
19. Leave school.

Tim: “Did you hear about the man who swallowed his spoon?”
Jim: “No, what happened to him?”
Tim: “Oh, he can’t stir.”

He: “See that man playing fullback? He'll be our best man in about a week.”
She: “Oh, this is so sudden.”—Awgwan.

Wigg: “I just finished setting a trap for my wife.”
Wagg: “My goodness! What do you expect?”
Wigg: “A mouse in the pantry.”—Washington University Dirge.

The flapper co-ed went to the young Prof. and said: “Profy, dear, what are my marks?” He put his arm around her very gently and whispered sweet little nothings in her ear—Wasp.

She: “I’ll never forget the time you asked me to marry you. You acted like a perfect fool.”
He: “That wasn’t acting, dear.”—Wampus.

Art: “Mary told me she worshipped her figure.”
Dave: “And what did you say?”
Art: “Nothing. I embraced her religion.”—Ex.

English Prof.: “What do you think of Beowulf?”
Martha Anthony: “Oh, I’m dreadfully scared of animals.”—Jester.