THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 5, 1929

Seven Wildcats Finish Careers As Gridmen In Thanksgiving Day Game

Veterans Star to Defeat Duke Blue Devils

1930 PROSPECT BRIGHT

Four Linemen and Three Backfield Men Play Football for Last Time

When the Davidson Wildcats took the field Thanksgiving Day against the Duke University Blue Devils, four men in the starting lineup played their last game as Wildcats, and three others were awaiting substitution. DeCamp, guard, Baker, tackle, and Brohard and Parrish, halfbacks, were the men who started the game. On the bench were three other Seniors, Mills, guard; Hewlett, quarterback, and Warren, center.

DeCamp is one of the most consistent guards in the State and starred in the Duke clash. He has starred in every game this year and has handled his position in fine style. L. B. Parrish, the redheaded flash of the backfield, has been one of the main cogs in the Davidson offense. It was he who ran through the entire Carolina team for the Wildcats’ only score of the Homecoming battle. Brohard has been out most of the year with an injury he received in the Clemson game, but his comeback Saturday against the Tar Heels boded no good for Duke University. A. W. “Borneo” Baker, captain of the 1928 football team, has been one of the most consistent tacklers on the eleven this fall. He played perhaps his greatest game Thursday. Mills has seen service as a relief guard often this season, except for a period when he was hurt. When Coach Younger needed somebody to bolster up the center of the forward wall and the spirit of the whole team, he sent in Mills. Warren and Hewlett have seen intermittent service in the Wildcat clashes.

Although the loss of these men will be felt next year, the prospect for Davidson's team in 1930 is brighter than for the past three years. Losing only three regulars in most of the starting lineups this fall will look much brighter than usual and will give the Wildcats almost the same team in 1930. A strong freshman squad will be affording competition for every position, and some of the yearlings appear as if they might displace the regulars.

DAVIDSON FOOTBALL TEAM (Continued from Page 1)

complete your careers at Davidson?” He declared that football was only a “court to the outer stadium of life” and urged the students to enter that larger stadium and win some of the greater contests. He suggested that keenness of vision, courage of heart, and purity of soul were requisites to winning superb prizes, victories, and triumphs. He narrowed his remarks still further by elaborating upon the contest of business and the contest of government. He cited the need for a superior type of businessman and bemoaned the many flagrant violations of trusts nowadays. In touching upon government, he pleaded with the Davidson boys to put on the “uniform of royal citizenship” in this contest.

At the beginning of the meeting, a welcome was extended to the Davidson visitors by H. B. Deaton, editor of The Mooresville Enterprise. At the conclusion of the main address, many individuals were called upon. The responses were both witty and serious.

KUESTER ADDRESSES (Continued from Page 1)

Mr. Kuester talked to his hearers for a few minutes upon the possibilities of the Chamber of Commerce field and cited the requisites of a secretary. Among other things, he maintained that the outstanding needs of a successful executive of such a body were vision, ambition, and determination, and he urged the Davidson students to enter this professional field if they were so inclined.

Tuberculosis Seal Drive Begins Soon

Great Work Done by Sales Committee in Past

“Sic juvat transcendere montes!” This might well be the motto of the Christmas Seals Committee, for in truth, it is striving to overcome mountains as difficult as those conquered by the Knights of the Golden Horseshoe. Here are some of the things the committee has accomplished. Last winter nine children were supplied with milk at school; one woman was fitted out and sent to the Mecklenburg County Sanatorium; another was supplied with medicine; Dr. Lee and his nurses held tubercular clinics for both the white and colored children; scales were purchased for the school; Dr. Hand has treated a number of different cases sent to him; Dr. Miller operated eight or nine times on the little colored girl sent to him and kept her at the Orthopedic Hospital three or four months free of charge. She still goes back to him at stated intervals. These things are just a beginning, are but the foothills; the mountains lie ahead. Must the work stop or shall it push to greater conquests? Buy some seals, as many as you can, a dollar’s worth or a dime’s worth, but do your bit. Help us to conquer the mountains!

Signed: Sales Committee.

PHI BETA KAPPA (Continued from page 1)

Present are Dr. Wilson McConnell, President, and Dr. K. J. Foreman, Secretary. Initiation of the new members will take place at 7:00 p.m., on the date stated above. This partThe ceremony will, of course, be private. New members to be initiated include four students of the class of 1930: A. T. Edelman, Goldsboro, N. C., J. B. Knox, Liberty, S. C., F. E. Marsh, Nashville, N. C., and F. R. Brown, Greensboro, N. C. All these men are candidates for the Bachelor of Arts degree. Also, four alumni will be initiated. These men, all members of the class of 1915, are: Prof. G. W. Gignilliat, Jr., Dr. U. S. Alexander, Rev. Johnson, and Rev. Frank Price. Professor Gignilliat, Seneca, S. C., is a professor of English at Presbyterian College, Clinton, S. C. He is now on leave of absence for study and research. Doctor Alexander is a resident of Charlotte, N. C. He is an attorney at law and received his Ph.D. from Columbia University. Reverend Johnson is pastor of the college church of Virginia Polytechnic Institute at Blacksburg, Va. Reverend Price is Davidson's representative in China and although he is now on furlough, studying at Yale, and has been elected to membership of this order, it will be impossible for him to be present for the initiation. He will, however, be initiated later in the year.

At 8:00 p.m., an address will be delivered to the initiates by Dr. W. J. McGlothlin. This address will be open to the public and all are cordially invited to attend. Doctor McGlothlin is President of Furman University, Greenville, S. C. Although a Tennessean, he is a member of the South Carolina chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. He received an LL.D. degree from Wake Forest, Furman, and Baylor, and a Ph.D. from the University of Berlin. He is the author of numerous books in English and German, including articles in the well-known “Dictionary of Religion and Ethics.” His social fraternity is Phi Gamma Delta. A banquet will be held at 9:00 p.m. in the new banquet hall of Chambers building. This will be given for members and guests.

Sophomore: “Teachers are worse than immigration authorities at Ellis Island nowadays.”
Alumnus: “How come?”
Sophomore: “They’ve swiped the slogan, ‘They shall not pass.’”—Ex.

Vespers—Sunday
Professor K. J. Foreman will be the speaker at “Y” Vespers Sunday. Subject: “Moral Blind-Spots.” This is the first time he has spoken at Vespers for more than a year, but, as older students will recall, he has delivered two of the most memorable addresses in the history of Vesper services here. He is very popular among the students of all classes, and all are looking forward to an interesting and inspiring talk.

Rifle Team Starts Work For Matches
Last year’s rifle team, which won over half of its matches, together with a number of promising freshmen, has been reorganized for the 1929-1930 season. Its members have entered the contest for the Davidson marksmanship trophy and have started training in expectation of another successful season. They have arranged for correspondence matches with about seventy-five schools, representing forty-six states, the Philippines, Porto Rico, and Hawaii. Shoulder-to-shoulder matches, several of which will be shot here, have also been planned with V.M.I., V.P.I., N.C. State, and Clemson.

There will be two rifle contests of outstanding local interest: one for the Davidson trophy, an engraved silver shield on a plaque; and the other between a local girls’ team and the leading freshmen riflemen. The reward in the latter contest will be a bounteous dinner for the winners, to be eaten opposite the losers who will be fed beans and cornbread. Captain Elkins is coaching the girls’ team and offering the prize. Leonora Elkins is captain of her group.

The trophy contest started last week and will close before Christmas. One position will be shot off each week. The contest shooting from the prone position has been completed. This contest was open to all taking R.O.T.C., and from those entered, the twenty-five making the highest scores will be chosen for the rifle team. The varsity members who are back this year are C. P. Greyer, captain; J. L. Brock, manager; C. E. Kraemer; W. Rule; E. S. Bettis; E. S. Brannon; D. G. Calder; J. G. Hughes, and R. D. Russell.

Grid Rarities: A 71-yard punt and a run of 102 yards by the same man in the same game.

STOP that COLD and COUGH
Take COLDEX
The “QUICK RELIEF” Cold Remedy for College Students, sold by a College Student
YOUR DRUGGIST | Jim Galloway HAS COLDEX

U. of S.C., Winning the war against weather.
In the telephone business, research men, manufacturing engineers, and construction supervisors are carrying on a successful war against the unruly elements, enemies to service. Cable, for example, housing many circuits and covered with protective coatings of proved strength, withstands storms which threaten open wire lines. Thus in the Bell System, growth is intensive as well as extensive, improving present facilities as well as adding new ones. And there is no end to all this development.

BELL SYSTEM
A nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephones
“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN”.