In answer to our request, Prof. E. J. Cullum, of the Music Department, has generously consented to occupy this week’s
column with a criticism of the Kreisler Recital. Those who heard Mr. Kreisler play will be especially interested, while any
who desired to attend but were unable to do so will be informed of the program. The Davidson turn-out was
indeed gratifying, and it is not improbable that an even greater number will make arrangements to hear Paderewski when he
comes to Charlotte in January. H. W. E.

THE KREISLER RECITAL

At the Kreisler concert in Charlotte, a large audience for Charlotte and vicinity, for there were over a hundred people
from Davidson alone, sat with open ears and minds to a nearly perfect performance by the greatest violin virtuoso of
all times. The Davidson delegation, for the most part, were seated, until after the first selection, in a block of
dollar seats reserved for them, but there were so many empty two and three dollar seats in front that common
sense demanded that they be filled by the poorer devotees. From then on, Kreisler’s own performance improved 100 percent, for
even great men dislike to be alone with the dead.

Through beauty of tone, subtlety of rhythm, and delicate, dynamic shading, Kreisler not only created for his audience a perfectly
intelligible language but captivated those who could appreciate the tonal and rhythmic structure also, by his treatment of these qualities,
just as one might be captivated as well as charmed by an oration cloaked in beautiful diction and inflection. Kreisler
is deservedly called a master virtuoso, the Liszt of the violin, in that he can create great music as well
as perform it. Out of simple folk tunes, he creates a “Gypsy Caprice” or a “Shepherd's Madrigal,” and then playing
it in a masterly manner, stirs in us emotions identical with the carefree spirit of the shepherd or gypsy. He
seems fond of the caprice, for his “Caprice Viennois” was exquisitely played as an encore, as a matter of fact,
better than I have ever heard it played by him, not excluding his recording of it. He seemed to be
particularly anxious to imbue Charlotte with the spirit of Viennese music.

But I’ve jumped ahead of my review of the program, of which there were three parts; two consisted of complete
concertos for the violin, one by Bach and the other by Tschaikowski, each containing three movements, two fast and one
slow. The first allegro movement of the Bach concerto in D Minor gave immediate opportunity for the artist to display
his excellent technique in the fast imitative passages, and especially was this so in the customary cadenza, where opportunity is
given the performer to improvise on the themes and to display technical skill. The second movement — “Adagio” — contains
one of the most beautiful and typical of Bach’s melodies, which always seem to me to refute the idea that
all Bach’s music is dry and intellectual; in fact, this movement is intensely emotional, even impassioned in spirit, as are
a great many of his beautiful melodies. Here was a chance for Kreisler’s admirers to enjoy his great legato technique,
one tone seeming to melt into another. The third movement — “Allegro” — was decidedly fugal in character, one of
the musical inventions of Bach, in which violinist and pianist play themes that seem to chase after each other in
a delightfully intricate manner. No one could have mistaken the playful and sprightly spirit of this movement as being Bach
in his humorous mood, and played with great skill by Kreisler and his artist accompanist, Carl Lamson. They both skillfully
maintain a beautiful crescendo until the end with magnificent effect.

The “D Major Concerto” of Tschaikowski was to me the high spot of the evening. The allegro movement came with
beautiful full-chordal passages and varied rhythms, and then changed to brilliant arpeggios with beautiful chromatic changes suggesting the variegated coloring
of a prairie sunrise; and then a lovely cadenza of decidedly Viennese flavor revealing the consummate skill of the artist-composer,
not forgetting the beautiful quality of tone emanating from the precious instrument in his hands. The second movement — “Andante”
— contained characteristic minor melodies of Slav flavor, giving a touch of oriental mystery to the movement, and also preparing
the way for the third movement — “Allegro vivacissimo” — which was replete with typical Russian dance rhythms. At this
point, the first encore was requested in no uncertain terms by the thoroughly awakened audience. It was the lovely “Chanson
sans Paroles” by Tschaikowski. Here Kreisler played double-stopped harmonics with perfect results.

The third section of the program was a group of five pieces, three of them in Spanish rhythms, and the
other two mentioned previously, “Shepherd’s Madrigal” and the “Gypsy Caprice.” When in one of the Spanish pieces, “Jota,” and the
easiest of the group, Kreisler skillfully imitated the Spanish guitar, the audience perhaps thinking they were sitting in the Carolina
Theatre at last hearing something on the R. K. O. circuit, applauded violently, and thus received a very gracious repetition
of the same by the great artist. One piece, in fact, called “Piece en forme de Habanera,” by the modernist
Ravel, was a beautiful example of the colorful, tonal, and harmonic possibilities of the whole tone scale, with which the
master showed perfect acquaintance. The “Gypsy Caprice” by Kreisler had too much of the whole tone elements in it to
remind you of gypsies outside of those that now travel in Cadillacs. As a whole, the third section gave fine
variety and balance to the program. I believe that should Kreisler return to Charlotte for a performance next week, the
same people, from Davidson at least, would not hesitate long before deciding to hear him again, and at a higher
price of admission. If that is so, then Davidson has a good percentage of music-lovers. E. J. G.

BOOKS WE HAVE READ

Ultima Thule: By Henry Handel Richardson, 314 pp. New York: W. W. Norton & Co. $2.50.

For twenty years the woman who has assumed Henry Handel Richardson as her pseudonym has been working on a trilogy.
This fall the last volume in the story of Richard Mahony’s career was published. The two preceding volumes, while presenting
his life up to the beginning of its decline, are not necessary to the completeness of the present one, and
so far as we have been able to ascertain, they have not previously been issued but are to appear at
three-month intervals, at the end of the year and in the early spring.

The Victorian style is well suited to the setting. Conditions of the Australian bush and seacoast country are most skillfully
depicted. An occasional verbosity of Madame Richardson is excusable because so minute a picture cannot be drawn without giving many
details. Even when the reader feels as if he were plowing laboriously through words, the story impels one to labor
on past inevitable tragedies. The hand of a master artist is evidenced by the way one loses consciousness of the
mere words while reading thoughts and deeds; while feeling simultaneously the emotion of the character and one’s own interest as
an observer.

The story reveals the power of unreasoning pride to destroy a human spirit, mind, and life. In the first part
of the book, Richard Mahoney gets himself into trouble by allowing his pride to lead him to attempt a show
of wealth beyond his means. Then came the step that sealed his doom. His pride kept him from confiding to
his wife their true straits. Each action necessitated by the dictates of his inner tyrant, Pride, but plunged him deeper
into tragedy. A man, dreamy by nature and without an inborn love for his profession of medicine, Mahoney shrunk from
those that now travel in Cadillacs.

“I went to the saddest show in the world last night.”
“No, that couldn’t be true.”
“Yes, it was too, even the seats were in tiers.”

“Why are you putting pepper and salt and vinegar on your food that way?”
“Oh, it’s just an old spinach custom.”

The naked hills lie wanton in the breeze,
The fields arebare, the groves unfrocked,
Nude are quivering the limbs of shameless trees,
What wonder that the corn is shocked.

Freshman: “I went out with a nurse last night.”
Sophomore: “Cheer up. Maybe when you grow up your mother will let you go out without one.”

“I’ve got you in my grip!” hissed the villain as he placed his toothbrush in his suitcase.

“Sweet Meats”
I never SAUSAGE eyes as thine,
And if you'll BUTCHER hand in mine,
And LIVER round me every day,
We'll MEAT life's frown with life’s caress,
And CLEAVER road to happiness.

The force was out to lunch, leaving the bookkeeper alone in the store. A handsome chap strode in.
“Do they keep automobile accessories here?” he asked.
The little bookkeeper smiled her sweetest. “Only me,” she replied.

Joe: “You know I played an organ for years.”
Moe: “How come you to give it up?”
Joe: “The monkey died on me.”

When a gold digger starts chasing after a Scotchman, she gets a good run for her money.

“Just one more glass, boys, and we'll all go home,” said the dishwasher as he laid down the soap.

How to Make a Freshman Understand Something
1. Tell him you're going to tell him something.
2. Tell him.
3. Tell him you've told him.
4. Summarize what you've said.
5. Repeat you are going to tell him something.
6. Repeat what you have told him.
7. Call a consultation.
8. Cross-examine him.
9. Tell him again.
10. Give him a blueprint.
11. Wire him.
12. Telephone him.
13. Pantomime it.
14. Let him go ignorant.

More and more within the supposed protection of fanciful mental creations which in turn strengthened his antagonism toward the world.
Once having chosen to face his difficulties unaided he remained cut off from any alleviation of his burdens. As Richard
gradually lost strength both physically and morally; Mary, the chief victim (along with the children), developed as necessity ever forced
harder situations upon her. And it is Mary’s growth that forms the focus of the book. The first two volumes
may concern themselves with Richard, but this one is Mary’s. It is true the writer ends her narrative with the
cessation of his sojourn on earth, but that is likewise the point where her character has reached full vigor. For
Mary, the book is a triumph in a tragedy; a great tragedy composed of lesser ones; and a chain of
discouragements and sorrows integrated into strength by her indomitable will. For Richard, it is his Ultima Thule, but not in
the sense he had thought it would be. In this account of a once successful man’s decadence, the world has
acquired a worthy piece of character portrayal. Such vivid in-

(Continued on Page 6)

What is life? What are its many attributes? One thing alone is certain: that this mysterious manifestation of biological principles
has curious yet definite clauses which compose its sacred parts. One of these is honor: without it there would be
no responsibility; no love, and no trust. Honor has been the chief cause of man’s constant perusal of Nature’s divine
laws. For unnumbered centuries there has been placed in the codes of humanity a hope that each man will do
to the other as he would be done unto. Thus, the generals have faith in their captains; a false and
misplaced trust would have ruined thousands of lives and brought kingdoms to ruin long before the appointed day; business men
have an essence of belief in their confederates; a betrayal of that faith would condemn many to the rancid existence
of poverty. Such introspection brings one often to the desire for a single vast reconnoiter into the pages of history.
What such a search would bring to light it is impossible to say; how many kingdoms were lost through a
small betrayal, hardly noticeable; how many lives have been lost in the falsity of some infinitely small endeavor by man
to recreate the world after his own pattern; what terrible poverty has eaten its way into the world through one
false word? Trust, faith, belief, all come under the great category of honor. And who is able to explain the
elements that compose life? Omar Khayyam attempts rather successfully the task:

“Myself when young did eagerly frequent
Doctor and saint, and heard great argument
About it and about: But evermore
Came out by the same door as in I went.”

From this questing after honor and its ability to build man’s responsibility to a higher standard came the Honor System
which is practiced in our various schools and colleges today. The first Honor System was established at the University of
Virginia by Thomas Jefferson. The only enactment in that early constitution which resembles ours was: That the testimony from the
students shall be voluntary. It was received favorably by faculty and students in a very few years; the student was
more relied on; felt that he was having a share in the development of his life; and was generally well
pleased that he was so well thought of as to be allowed some voice in government; it was the beginning
of training for a more democratic group of citizens. Soon after Davidson College was founded the Honor System was installed
here and has since persisted with varied success down to the present moment. The constitution has been enlarged from time
to time until the Student Body has now an almost unlimited power. Yet there remains still one weakness in the
system: that is in section five, article four concerning the students’ act of reporting all violations. The real and ironclad
Honor System will be one in which each student, should he commit an offense against the college, will at once
report such a violation to the Council. This move is drastic at the present time, but some day, somehow, it
will come to pass and in that moment the world will have taken a step to a most accurate and
intensive mode of living. When?

There is beauty in the whole universe; beauty of the heavens; characterization in statuary; greatness in architecture; loveliness of woman;
and the inevitable yet hidden beauty of an ethical code. There is Man and there is Man’s Brother. Man himself
sifts the clouds of sand seeking a scintillating and false beauty; he peeps among the skies in a hope of
seeing the flowers that Man’s Brother has pointed out long ago; and all in vain, for there is excellence only
where there is openness. Man's Brother casts down his eyes to the slime and mud of a thousand years and
brings forth beauty; eyes a bit of steel with wonder and watches the endless procession of labor which went into
the making of that bit of steel; passes before long caravans of filth and fog, watching the light that strikes
golden drops of dew. Beauty is a god—and Man’s Brother is the lover. He will not tear at the heart
of beauty; for he has openness and is honorable. And the gods desired faithful honesty so

(Continued on page 6)

FELLOWS!
You'll always find a well-equipped U-Drive-It Ford at the right price at Henderson’s Filling Station
DAVIDSON, N. C.

ELGIN WRIST WATCHES
Latest Models, both for Men and Women now in Stock.
Ladies’ $27.50 to $35; Men’s $19 to $25.
W. S. HENDERSON JEWELER

weight to suit you in HANES.
SATISFIES YOUR EVERY UNDERWEAR NEED
SHIRTS and SHORTS
ATHLETICS and RIBS
Nobby Shirts in cotton or rayon. White, solid colors or pastel trims. Shorts in fancy patterns and what will you
have? 50c, 75c, and $1.00. The famous SAMSONBAK Athletic Union Suit with the patented “Tug-of-War” belt in checks and fancy
materials—$1.00. If you like Ribs, there’s a style and weight to suit you in HANES.
P. H. HANES KNITTING CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.
