AN is not ‘a creature of circumstances; circumstances are the creatures of man. Disraeli.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
LAST ISSUE TILL AFTER EXAMS. WHOOPEE!

Vol. XVI * DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 17, 1929 No. 15

VARSITY DEBATERS ARE ASSIGNED TO PLACES ON TEAMS
Faculty Committee on Debate Assigns Men
SCHEDULE APPROVED
Six Teams of Dixie Debating League to be Met in Competition

Davidson debating teams were assigned to their respective debates by the Faculty Committee last Thursday, January 10. The schedule will
include eight schools, six of which are members of the Dixie Debating League and will oppose Davidson in their try
for the silver loving cup for the best team in the league.

At the meeting of the faculty committee last Thursday afternoon with Dr. Currie presiding, the teams were made and approved.
The schedule itself is very hard and a number of the teams will have to work up both sides of
a question and in some instances change the whole topic. The teams as arranged by the committee are as follows:

debate schedule

One trip is made into the state of Virginia on March 5, 6, and 7, with the team being composed
of W. L. Dumas and R. M. Christian. This team will debate Richmond with the negative side of the question,
Resolved: That expert jurists, three or five in number, should be substituted for the present plan of trial by jury.
They also meet William and Mary but the side of the question they will uphold has not been decided. William
and Mary have the choice and have not replied as yet.

The only other team making a trip is composed of W. B. McGuire and Z. V. Long. This team makes
the North Carolina State trip and debates Wake Forest and N. C. State. They debate Wake Forest with the affirmative
side of the question and State with the negative. This trip will be taken on March 27, 28 and 29.

Two teams will debate here. The one team meets the University of Alabama on March 22, on a question yet
to be submitted by Alabama, and Emory University on February 19. This team is composed of C. R. Pritchett and
E. E. Marsh. They will debate Emory with the same question mentioned above but will uphold the negative side.

The team composed of R. C. Garday and J. C. Matthews will meet the University of Florida here on March
7 and the Birmingham-Southern College here April 18. The Davidson team will uphold the negative side in each of these
debates.

Davidson in this schedule will meet six teams that are members of the Dixie Debating League. This is the quota
for a requirement of the League whereby a team may contest for a large silver loving cup. If Davidson can
win all of her debates and no other team in the League is so successful they will be declared winners
of the cup. The league is composed of eighteen southern schools or colleges, Davidson being one of these.

Fresh Quint Loses Tilt With Wingate
Wildkittens Lose First Game of Season to Junior College

The Davidson “Wildkittens” lost a well-played game to the Wingate quintet Monday afternoon. The wearers of the Red and Black
started off with a rush. In a few minutes the score was ten to two in favor of the home
team. As the game advanced Wingate gradually gained on the Wildkittens. The score at the end of the half was
14 to 12.

At the beginning of the second half Wingate shot several goals in quick succession. Hutaff, acting captain for the team,
called time out and when play was resumed the defense of the Kittens was much stronger. They were gradually gaining
on the visitors. Soon the score was tied and from then on first one team and then the other was
leading. It was a real nip and tuck affair and many fouls were made. Montgomery of the locals was the
only man who made four personal fouls. As the game was nearing its end both teams seemed tired out. Just
as the gun sounded Davidson was fighting hard to tie the score, which stood then 31-33.

Triplett and Yaddy were the outstanding players for the visitors; Triplett was high scorer of the game, making eighteen points.
Yaddy succeeded in ringing up eleven points. It would be hard to pick a star for the (Continued on page
3)

Activities Of Vocational Guidance Institute Are Planned By Committees
Selection of Speakers Only Thing Remaining to be Done
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS
Shorter Time to be Devoted to Vocational Institute Than in Former Years

Plans for the Vocational Guidance Institute, that is to be held here early in the spring under the auspices of
the Y. M. C. A, are rapidly nearing completion. All that remains to be done is the selection of speakers
representing the various vocations.

This institute, one of the features of the year at Davidson, will start February 26th, and go through March 27th.
Each important profession will be presented in a main address at Shearer Hall by an eminent leader in that particular
line of work. The professions of law, medicine, business and its many branches, education, journalism, engineering, textile manufacturing, ministry, and
possibly farming, will be represented. The day following his address each vocational advisor will remain on the campus to grant
interviews to any student desiring them. In this way an intimate, personal contact may be obtained with a real authority
on any proposed life work.

An interesting innovation will be attempted this year. Nationally famous men will be secured to write articles for the Davidsonian
on their particular vocation. J. R. Covington, Y. M. C. A. cabinet member in charge of vocational guidance has appointed
the following students chairmen of committees on vocations: W. M. Powell (law), S. Y. Brown (medicine), D. F. Cannon (business),
W. R. Weaver (education), J. B. Causey (textile manufacturing), A. N. Brown (ministry).

Davidsonian as Interesting Stops Planned By Lingle
Extensive Tour to be Made During Leave of Absence

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, of the faculty who has been granted a leave of absence for six months, will leave
here on January 25th for a tour of the countries of northern Africa, Western Asia and southern Europe. Dr. Lingle
has arranged a trip to include lands and localities where medieval and ancient history was made. Dr. Lingle is a
member of the French department of Davidson, but in addition to his French classes, he is working in the history
department. Mrs. Lingle will accompany him on the trip.

Dr. Lingle will sail direct for Alexandria, Egypt, and will spend approximately six weeks in that country. He will be
in Jerusalem around Easter time, and expects to devote one month to Palestine, Mesopotamia, and Syria. He will journey to
the ancient capitals of Persia, and from there will go to Angora, the capital of Turkey, later visiting Constantinople. Several
weeks will be spent in Greece and the neighboring islands; June will be spent in Sicily and in the extreme
southern part of Italy, with trips to ancient Carthage on the African coast. His final stopping place will be Rome,
Italy, where he will stay for several weeks.

Future Speakers at Vespers Announced
Negro Quartette to Feature Services on 20th

A quartette of negroes from the Johnson C. Smith Training School of Charlotte will probably have the larger part of
the program at “Y” vespers Sunday night January the twentieth, according to Fred Poag, President of the Christian Endeavor Training
Class, who has charge of the meeting. The group will present a number of spirituals after the devotionals.

On the following Sunday, January the twenty-seventh, Prof. E. A. Beatty will give a talk to the students, and on
February the third Dr. Albert Sydney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, will address them. At a
later date Dr. Luther Little, pastor of the First Baptist Church in Charlotte, will speak and the following week Bishop
E. A. Pennick, of the North (Continued on page 3)

Mr. McLaurine Gives Talk at “Y” Vespers
Students League Largely in Sunday Night Services

On Sunday evening, January 13, the regular Y. M. C. A. vesper service was held. The meeting was opened with
a song service, and after this, Z. V. Long led in prayer. C. H. Goodykoontz then read the scripture and
another prayer was offered by H. S. Covington. A solo was sung by G. P. Pardington.

Dr. Frazer Hood introduced the speaker of the evening, who was W. M. McLaurine. Mr. McLaurine addressed the audience as
follows: “Many men have already gone out from Davidson College, and others will soon go. What will these men give
to the world? Where are our young men going, and what will they do after they get there? We should
think of our work not in terms of money, but of service and joy. We should try to not get
something out of the world, but we should attempt to put something worth while into it.

Mr. McLaurine stated that he expects all of us to become men some day. He said: “It is easier for
a man who has been giving all his life to learn to save than for a man who has been
saving all his life to learn to give. Wealth often makes a lonely life. Your association with fellow students coupled
with your study in the classroom helps you to appreciate life. As we go out into life and go up
to God's Temple Beautiful, will someone ask us what we have or will we meet someone who will pass on?”

No Chapel For Seniors

Seniors’ attendance at chapel and church during the examination period, from January 18th through 27th will be optional. This fact
was disclosed through the Dean's office by order of the faculty executive committee to M. T. Gilmour, president of the
class. Attendance at church the Sunday after examinations will not be required.

Hall Elected Pres. Of Freshman Class
Eleven Men Nominated for Presidency of First-Year Men

Friday night, January 11, the freshman class became an official member, as a class, of the student body. This was
effected by their election of a class president. There were eleven nominations in all and, after several ballots, R. A.
Hall won by a small majority over B. E. Allen.

Nominations were in two groups, those made by a committee from the student council and those made from the floor.
The nominees of the former were: D. S. King, P. M. Conway, C. W. Arnold, K. L. Goodson, C. M.
Miller and J. D. McConnell. The following were nominated from the floor: N. A. Hall, W. L. Lane, C. G.
Spier, B. E. Allen, Z. F. Brown.

Four ballots had to be taken before any one could be chosen. In the first the following men were eliminated:
Lane, Conway, Spier, McConnell, and Brown. In the second, the following: Miller, Goodson and King. The third, (Continued on page
3)

R. O. T. C. Students Hold Mock Trial In Eu Hall
Bill Flythe Arraigned on Charge of Larceny in “Court Martial”

As a practical demonstration of what they have learned this year the Seniors of the R. O. T. C battalion
held a mock court martial in the Eumenean Literary Society hall last Friday night. Bill Flythe, the accused, was arraigned
on a charge of larceny for it was alleged that he stole from the armory of Davidson College R. O.
T. C. battalion on the night of December 1st, one Springfield rifle model 1918, property of the U. S. government,
value twenty-five dollars. The accused pleaded not guilty.

Cadet Major M. M. King was judge of the court; Cadet Lt. H. A. Knox was trial judge advocate; Cadet
Second Lt. C. E. Herriot, assistant trial judge advocate and Cadet First Lt. E. R. McConnell, counsel.For the defense. The
prosecution called its first witness, Cadet Captain W. M. Regen. Capt. Regen affirmed that at about nine o'clock on Dec.
6, he saw a light flashing in the armory. On approaching Major King’s room at the rear of the armory,
he saw a man in a long top coat of medium height emerge from the rear door of the armory
and walk swiftly out of sight. It was too dark to see any details. The defense was not able to
get any satisfaction from the first witness of the prosecution to establish that the theft occurred on the sixth.

The second witness for the prosecution was Cadet Second Lt. W. M. Long, who had the armory at nine o'clock.
While attempting to read a notice on the bulletin board, he saw a spotlight flashing in the building. This was
at exactly nine o'clock, he said. On going around the armory to Major King’s room, he found that King was
out, but turning around on the doorstep, he saw a light-haired man in a long top coat come out of
the rear door of the armory who had some long object under his coat. “When the light shone on his
head, it shone like the sun; he might easily have been the accused, but I only saw his back,” said
Lt. Long.

Cadet Captain R. O. Flinn, the third witness, said he was away from his room in the rear of the
armory at the time of the theft, but on his return, he noticed that the rear door of the armory
was open. In his capacity as property officer, he went in to make an investigation. He found that a rifle
was missing and also found a handkerchief which he took and placed in his drawer. The missing rifle was later
found in Flythe’s room, and the laundry number on the handkerchief was found to be that of the accused. Lt.
J. C. Fry testified that the accused had tried to sell him a rifle, or rather had offered to sell
him one. Lt. Sloop had also seen a small man enter the armory and after a short time emerge and
leave hurriedly. After the testimony of all the witnesses of the prosecution, nothing had been found in favor of the
accused. Apparently, the defense counsel had little opportunity of winning his case.

The court room was filled with many spectators, some of whom had to stand in the aisles. A wife and
two children sat near the front. The children cried while large tears welled from the pretty young woman’s eyes and
splashed in pools on the floor. Defense attorney R. R. McConnell called his first witness, Stanley Bethea. Bethea testified that
he roomed on the same floor as Flythe and was an intimate friend.

“Is the accused the type of man who would commit such a crime as he is accused of having done?”
asked the defense counsel.

“He is not,” replied the witness.

“Is it true that Flythe walks in his sleep?”

“Yes, it is a well-known fact among his closest friends. One night he came into my room posing as Napoleon
while asleep.”

Larry Boyd also testified that Flythe was a sleep-walker and told of a time that he met him at the
front door of Rumple and woke him up by putting him under the shower. Bill Keller, the roommate of the
accused, stated that on the night in question, Flythe had gotten back from Charlotte about supper time, and saying that
he was feeling sick, went to bed immediately. After supper, Flythe was asleep, and when Keller came back from the
library at ten-thirty, he was still asleep and the rifle was in the room. In the morning, Flythe expressed ignorance
of the manner in which the rifle was brought into the room but supposed that some member of the rifle
team had left it there as on a previous occasion. Keller testified that Flythe owned a .22 rifle which he
had been trying to sell in order to buy a new one as he loved all guns, especially good ones.
Robert Robinson also testified that he met Flythe in the hall of Rumple shortly after nine on the sixth of
December. He appeared to be in a trance and didn’t speak to him as was his custom. Also, he was
thinly dressed, having on an overcoat over his pajamas.

(Continued on page 3)

Dr. Archibald Henderson Makes Address At Phi Beta Kappa Initiation

Davidson Will Enter Oratorical Contest

Prelims for National Contest to be on April 1st

W. L. Dumas, president of the Forensic Council, announces that Davidson will participate in the National Intercollegiate Oratorical Contest on
the Constitution, which is being conducted for the fifth time by the Better American Federation of California. Allan Frew, representing
Davidson, won third place in the contest last year. It is announced from the contest headquarters that the prizes will
be the same as in former years. Five thousand dollars in cash will be awarded. For first place, there is
a $1500 prize; for second, $1000; for third, $750; for fourth, $550; for fifth, $450; for sixth, $400; for seventh,
$350. All bona-fide undergraduate students in American colleges and universities are eligible for this contest. The orations must be on
one of the following subjects: Washington and the Constitution, Hamilton and the Constitution, Jefferson and the Constitution, Marshall and the
Constitution, Franklin and the Constitution, Madison and the Constitution, Webster and the Constitution, and Lincoln and the Constitution.

For this contest, the nation is divided into seven regions. The colleges in each region compete among themselves to determine
the finalist for each region. The finalists for 1928 were: Carl Albert, University of Oklahoma, winner of first place; Herbert
Wenig, Stanford University, winner of second place; Allan Frew, Davidson College, winner of third place; L. B. Lybarger, Jr., Bucknell
University, winner of fourth place; William B. Conley, Princeton University, winner of fifth place; Phillip H. Glatfelter, Loyola University, winner
of sixth place; and Paul V. Keyser, Jr., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, winner of seventh place. Dumas announces that the
preliminaries for this contest will be held on April the first, and that three members of the faculty will be
judges. He also announces that the regional semi-finals will be held on April the twenty-seventh. The National finals will be
held in Los Angeles on June the thirteenth.

Blanton is Detailed To Duty at Davidson

Captain of Infantry to Report Here During Summer

Capt. William L. Blanton, United States infantry, now stationed in Hawaii, has been detailed for duty at Davidson College, at
the completion of his tour. Captain Blanton will be free at the beginning of next summer and will report immediately
to the Davidson R. O. T. C. Unit. Captain Blanton is a native of Florida, having entered the army early
in 1917. He was promoted to the captaincy in 1920. He is a graduate of the Alabama (Continued on page
3)

Prelim Inspection

On the morning of January 24, Major W. E. Duvall will arrive at Davidson to make a general inspection of
the R. O. T. C. Unit. Major Duvall is the officer in charge of the R. O. T. C. affairs
at the co-area headquarters. He will remain in Davidson until January 25, and during this time, he will make a
preliminary inspection of the local unit to see if it is worthy of being recommended to the War Department. If
the unit passes his inspection, an inspector will be sent from the War Department in the spring to see if
the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit is good enough to be awarded distinguished rating. At the afternoon parade on
last Wednesday, January 9, the third platoon of Company C won first place. Second place was given to the second
platoon of Company B, and the third platoon of Company B was awarded third place.

“The Higher Scholarship” is Subject of Address Before Assembly

LARGE CROWD OUT

Speech Delivered Upon Occasion of Initiation in Phi Beta Kappa of Six Students

After the radical changes wrought by science, and criticizing educational institutions for their tendency to standardize human material, with a
subsequent failure to keep pace with the new ideas, Dr. Archibald Henderson, of the University of North Carolina, declared here
Friday night that “if we are to produce the super-scholarship of the future, we must acknowledge and act upon the
belief that every human being is, in a measure, a genius.” Dr. Henderson was making the principal address at the
initiation of Davidson students and alumni into the Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity at Davidson
College. He spoke to a packed audience which had gathered for the public exercises, using the subject, “The Higher Scholarship.”

The speaker began his remarks by declaring that the civilization of the world is living in the midst of a
great awakening, which, “under the wizard hands of the scientists, the leaden eyes of a slumbering civilization are being lifted,
for eyes to view the cosmos with sharpened vision and startled interest. Within little more than a decade, the world
has undergone a perturbing transformation which, as yet, we have scarcely begun to reassess. In this changing era of strenuous
and frantic experimentation, religion, philosophy, science, art, and education are taking on new colors and raising new issues in the
crucial contest to meet the evolving demands of the times.”

Narrowing his discussion solely to the effect which scientific changes have had upon education, Dr. Henderson maintained that culture and
scholarship are taking on new and enlarged meanings. “We see clearly that culture, conceived merely as an ornamental patina of
wealth, aristocracy, and leisure is soulless and impotent,” he continued. “Furthermore, we see clearly today that scholarship, to have propulsive
power and creative efficacy in modern life, must represent for the individual youth something more than an accumulation of high
grades, general academic excellence, and even the acquisition of a golden mystic key.”

The speaker then launched upon the tendency of all colleges and universities throughout America to “standardize human material.” “Our educational
institutions are becoming plants for turning out human products according to a given pattern and design. The convoy system of
education, the cafeteria philosophy of hand-picked information, the department store and bargain counter programs are operating hand-in-hand with the cash
register’s doctrine, under which all students are taught according to mechanical scales of cross-indices, information credit slips, and artificial time-units.”

Toward the close of his address, Dr. Henderson proposed a remedy for the glaring evils in the educational system of
today. “We must demand a re-valuation of the issues of collegiate life. Let us abjure the disingenuous and juvenile folly
of estimating our Knute Rocknes, Percy Haughtons, and Alonzos above our Millikans, Michelsons, and Deweys. We must relax the high-pressure
pace of campus activities to which American student life is now over-burdened. We must put the highest premiums upon intellectual
grasp, mental ability, and high qualities of leadership. Education must supply space for the spontaneous, freedom for the random, and
vent for the genius.”

Davidson students initiated into Phi Beta Kappa Friday night were Monroe Gilmour, Jr., of Wilmington; J. B. Moriarity, of Ripley,
Tenn.; J. R. Graham, of Hamlet; W. K. Pritchett, of Atlanta, Ga.; W. L. Dumas, of Talladega, Ala.; and R.
R. Kane, of Atlanta, Ga. Dr. Everard Wilcox, of Augusta, Ga.; Dr. C. F. Arrowood, of Austin, Tex.; E. R.
Campbell, of Denver, Colo.; and Dr. W. C. von Glahn, of New York were the four Davidson alumni to accept
invitations extended to them, but none of them were able to be here tonight for induction into Phi Beta Kappa.
